

UN chief Ban Ki-moon was due to meet Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas on Sunday on his first official trip to the Middle East
amid stepped up diplomacy to revive stalled peace talks.


Ban was to meet the Palestinian leader at his office in Ramallah
in the occupied West Bank after visiting a refugee camp in
Bethlehem. Later in the day he was to meet US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice in Jerusalem.


Discussions are expected to include the new Palestinian coalition
cabinet that was inaugurated a week ago uniting Abbas's secular
Fatah with the Islamist Hamas, considered a terror group in the
West.


Ban is expected to urge the new government to renounce violence,
recognise Israel and abide by past peace deals -- conditions
imposed a year ago when the West slapped a freeze on direct aid
to the Palestinians after Hamas first took power.


"We expect the national unity government would meet the
expectation of the international community for the peace and
security of the region," Ban said after holding talks with
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt on Saturday.


Prime minister Ismail Haniya has said the new government will
respect past peace accords, but he has also insisted on the
Palestinians' right to resist Israeli occupation.


The UN secretary general, who took office in January, is also
expected to discuss with Abbas a five-year-old Arab peace plan
which Israel and the United States would like to see amended at
an Arab summit in Riyadh on Wednesday.


"It is necessary for the international community to encourage
this ongoing peace process," Ban told a news conference after
talks with Mubarak.


The Arab peace blueprint calls for full normalisation of
relations with Israel in return for a full Israeli withdrawal
from Arab lands occupied in 1967 and the creation of a
Palestinian state.


Although Israel rejected the plan when it was first adopted at an
Arab summit in 2002, it has since said the blueprint could serve
as a basis for negotiations provided clauses concerning the right
of return of Palestinian refugees are dropped.


Following his talks with Abbas, Ban will travel to Jerusalem to
meet Rice, who is on her fourth visit to the region in as many
months.


The US chief diplomat is to hold two rounds of separate talks
with Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert in a frenetic
four days of shuttle diplomacy.


Ban is due to meet Olmert on Monday before travelling on to
Jordan and Saudi Arabia, where he will address the opening
session of the Arab summit on Wednesday.


He will then wrap up his tour in Lebanon with separate talks with
beleaguered Western-backed Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and his
pro-Syrian rival, parliament speaker Nabih Berri.


Berri has refused to recognize the legitimacy of Siniora's
government since six pro-Syrian ministers pulled out in November,
paralysing its legislative programme, including flagship plans
for an international court to try suspects in the 2005 murder of
anti-Syrian former prime minister Rafiq Hariri.

