

The UN Security Council has slapped new sanctions on Iran over
its suspect nuclear program as Western powers warned Tehran it
faced becoming even more internationally isolated.


The council's 15 members on Saturday unanimously adopted
Resolution 1747, co- sponsored by Britain, France and non-member
Germany, broadening UN sanctions imposed on Iran in December for
spurning repeated demands to suspend sensitive uranium
enrichment.


"The unanimous adoption of this resolution reflects the
international community's profound concern over Iran's nuclear
program," said Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of
the sponsors.


The vote came amid an escalating diplomatic row between Iran and
Britain over the fate of 15 British marines and sailors, who were
seized in the Shatt al-Arab waterway between Iran and Iraq on
Friday as they conducted "routine" anti- smuggling operations.


Foreign ministers of veto-wielding council members China, France,
Russia, Britain and the United States plus non-member Germany
also issued a statement proposing "further talks with the Islamic
Republic of Iran to see if a mutually acceptable way can be found
to open negotiations."


The six reaffirmed their commitment "to a negotiated solution
that would address the international community's concerns."


But speaking at the United Nations after the vote, Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki swiftly dismissed the UN
sanctions as "unlawful" and "unjustifiable actions" orchestrated
by a few of its members.


He did not respond to the six powers' offer of new talks.


As expected, the sanctions resolution was strongly supported by
Israel, an arch- foe of Iran, which has repeatedly stated that a
nuclear-armed Iran was unacceptable.


"The international community should continue in this way to
influence Iran and persuade the country to end its attempts to
produce nuclear arms," Israeli government spokeswoman Miri Eisin
told AFP.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


Mottaki replaced in New York Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, who late Friday canceled his plans to address the
council, as Tehran blamed Washington for delaying his visa, a
charge denied by US officials.


The minister reaffirmed Iran's right to conduct uranium
enrichment as enshrined by the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
which Tehran signed.


Washington for its part welcomed the new sanctions, warning
Tehran that it would face growing international isolation if it
failed to comply with its obligations.


"We are obviously very pleased by the strength of this
resolution. It is a significant international rebuke to Iran and
is a significant tightening of the international pressure on
Iran," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters.


He however said European Union envoys would now try to prod Iran
into reconsidering its decision to continue with sensitive
nuclear activities.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and other EU diplomats
"would be in touch with the Iranian government in the days and
weeks ahead to see if they might reconsider their obstinate
refusal to renegotiate," he added.


"We hope they (Iranians) will thoroughly study the statement of
the foreign ministers which is very positive and invites Iran to
engage in talks to find a mutually acceptable formula for
negotiation," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said after the
vote.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to help meet the country's energy needs. Enriched uranium is the
basic material for both military and civilian nuclear programs.


The draft resolution was worked out last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- and Germany.


It builds on the December sanctions which included a ban on the
sale of nuclear and ballistic missile-related materials to Iran,
foreign travel restrictions on Iranians involved in sensitive
atomic and ballistic missile work and a freeze on their overseas
assets.


An annex to the new resolution details the diplomatic, economic
and security incentives which the six powers presented to Iran
last June to coax it into giving up uranium enrichment.


Three council non-permanent members, South Africa, Indonesia and
Qatar, which had pressed for amendments, expressed reservations
about the resolution but still decided to vote in favor.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s during its transition from white minority rule, has
consistently defended Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful
purposes.


It fought for and secured insertion of a paragraph in the text
reaffirming the authority and lead of the International Atomic
Energy Agency in determining the nature of the Iranian nuclear
program


Indonesia and Qatar also secured an indirect reference in the
text to the goal of a nuclear-free Middle East, which is aimed at
Israel, the only country in that region known to possess a
nuclear weapons arsenal.

