

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Egyptian President
Hosni Mubarak on Sunday as she sought to boost involvement by
Arab allies in efforts to rekindle Israeli-Palestinian talks.


On her fourth visit to the region in as many months, Rice held
several hours of talks on Saturday with the foreign ministers and
intelligence chiefs of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the United
Arab Emirates.


The so-called Arab Quartet of Sunni-dominated states is a central
element in US plans for stabilising Iraq and helping mediate in
an Israeli-Palestinian landscape complicated by the formation of
a unity government between the radcal Islamic movement Hamas and
the Fatah party of Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


Her trip comes amid a flurry of diplomacy aimed at kickstarting
long-stalled negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians,
including a first official visit to the region by UN Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon.


Rice's meeting with Mubarak was expected to be overshadowed by US
criticism of controversial constitutional amendments pushed
through by the veteran president and which are being put to a
referendum on Monday.


She will then head to Israel and the Palestinian territories for
her first round of shuttling between Palestinian and Israeli
leaders since Abbas's secular Fatah party joined a unity
government dominated by Hamas, which Israel, the United States
and Europe consider a terrorist group.


Saturday's talks touched on US desires to see an Arab summit in
Riyadh next week formally endorse a renewal of the five-year-old
Arab initiative for a broad peace deal with Israel, US Assistant
Secretary of State David Welch said.


"The secretary emphasised... the importance of Arab-Israeli
reconciliation as an element in broadening peace, but also in
helping to establish a track between Israelis and Palestinians,"
Welch said.


The 2002 plan offered across-the-board Arab recognition of the
Jewish state if it returns to its 1967 borders, permits the
creation of an independent Palestinian state and allows the
return of Palestinian refugees.


Israel initially rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative.


But Israeli leaders have recently spoken more positively of the
plan as a starting point for negotiations, as long as it is
revised to specify that Palestinian refugees can return to
Palestinian-controlled areas, not to the Jewish state.


Welch and other US officials refused to offer details of
Saturday's discussions and stressed that Rice did not seek to
pressure her counterparts to bring specific proposals to next
week's summit.


But one senior Rice aide speaking on condition of anonymity said
the "spirit was there to reaffirm the Arab initiative" and that
the issue was expected to come up at the Riyadh summit on
Wednesday and Thursday.


Among Arab states, only Jordan and Egypt have signed a peace
treaty with Israel, though Saudi Arabia and some Gulf states have
had discreet contacts with the Jewish state in past years.


Some leaders of the Arab League have balked at revising their
blueprint.


Rice said the Arab states needed to "reinvigorate" the plan,
turning it from a set of static "principles" that leaves all the
work to Israel into an active diplomatic endeavour.


In Rice's view, the Arab initiative would provide a parallel
track for peace efforts alongside her frustrated drive to breathe
life into moribund Israeli- Palestinian negotiations.


The unity government deal effectively torpedoed a months-long US
effort to sideline Hamas by brokering direct peace talks between
Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who has refused to
deal with the new government.


Saturday's Arab Quartet meeting with Rice also discussed the
expected "durability" of the Fatah-Hamas government, the
political weakness of Israel's current leaders and concerns over
meddling by Iranian intelligence in Iraq, Lebanon and the
Palestinian territories, the senior US official said.


"Right now, my primary goal is to establish a mechanism, a common
approach, that I can use with them in parallel so that we are
addressing the same issues," Rice said. "That's really the key
right now."

