

The UN chief mediator's final report on the future status of
Kosovo was to be forwarded to the Security Council Monday, amid
fears that Serbian and Russian opposition could trigger more
violence in the tense region.


According to European diplomats, mediator Martti Ahtisaari has
steered clear of recommending independence for the Albanian-
majority southern Serbian province, which has been under UN rule
since 1999, when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown
on ethnic Albanians by Serb forces.


The controversial word "independence" is included only in the
preamble to the text, the diplomats said, without saying in what
context, and speaking on condition of anonymity.


But although the plan unveiled last month offers only self-
governance to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to
break away from Serbia, it is strongly opposed in Serbia and by
its traditional ally Russia.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is calling for more
efforts to find a compromise between Serbia and Kosovo's ethnic
Albanian majority over the province's future.


And reacting to Ahtisaari's warning that "the potential of
negotiations is exhausted," Lavrov suggested that if Ahtisaari
"has exhausted his resources, we can surely find someone else to
handle this issue."


Ahtisaari's final proposal says "Kosovo shall be a multi-ethnic
society, "governing itself democratically and with full respect
for the rule of law" with a "future international civilian and
military presence," according to EU diplomatic sources.


The breakaway province would also have the right to "negotiate
and conclude international agreements, including the right to
seek membership in international organizations," they said.


The European Union, for example, has not ruled out future
membership.


Under the scheme, the province would also adopt a constitution
within 120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time
the mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


Religious and cultural heritage will also be protected, including
the operations of the Serbian Orthodox church in Kosovo.


General and local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced, the European diplomatic sources
said.


The proposals are being released after 13 months of negotiations
between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians ended earlier this month
without agreement.


Belgrade and Kosovo Serbs rejected independence for the province,
calling instead for more negotiations.


Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic has denounced Ahtisaari's
plan as "not a compromise, but a danger for stability in the
region."


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, accepted the plan, rejecting any links
with Belgrade.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


And tensions continue to simmer in Kosovo, where eight Serbs and
11 ethnic Albanians were killed during three days of violence in
March 2004 when villages populated by minority Serbs came under
attack by ethnic Albanian extremists.


The 15-member Security Council will not discuss the contentious
issue until next month, UN diplomats said.


But leaked reports about Ahtisaari's proposals have already
rankled some diplomats within the walls of the United Nations.


Last week Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin angrily
criticized UN mediators for "preaching independence" for Kosovo.


The former US ambassador to the UN and architect of the Balkan
peace accords, Richard Holbrooke, meanwhile has warned that
Russia would bear responsibility for any fresh outbreak of
violence in Kosovo if it used its Security Council veto to block
the UN plan.


Russian opposition to the plans could provoke "an explosion of
violence" and possibly even reignite the war, Holbrooke said in
an interview with a Croatian newspaper last week.


The Ahtisaari plan stresses the need to look after the interests
of the Serb minority in the province including setting up six new
or significantly expanded Kosovo Serb majority municipalities.


Serbian shall also be an official language along with Albanian
and the Kosovo Serb community will have "a high degree of control
over its own affairs," according to the diplomatic sources.


The ethnic minorities in Kosovo -- which also include Turks, Roma
and Bosnians -- will also be assured "guaranteed representation"
in the Kosovo Assembly, with their majority support required for
votes on laws which especially affect them.

