

Britain's former foreign secretary Jack Straw is set to run
finance minister Gordon Brown's campaign for the governing Labour
Party leadership, according to a letter from Straw made public
Sunday.


In what will be seen as a high-profile boost for Brown, Straw
told lawmakers Saturday he was in "absolutely no doubt" that the
long-serving chancellor of the exchequer was the right person to
take over from Tony Blair.


Blair is due to stand down in the coming months and Brown is
widely expected to succeed him. As leader of the biggest party in
parliament, Brown would automatically become prime minister
without a general election being called.


There have been mounting claims of discontent in the Labour ranks
about Brown, particularly over his allegedly "uncollegiate"
management style and what one former top civil servant said was
his "Stalinist ruthlessness" with colleagues.


Both Brown and Labour are also losing ground to the main
opposition Conservative Party in the opinion polls, partly due to
disaffection with Blair's administration but also Brown's less
media-friendly image.


In addition, sections of the centre-left party are said to be
concerned that with no viable candidate in the frame for the
leadership, Brown will be "crowned" unopposed without a majority
backing from members.


European trade commissioner Peter Mandelson, a former British
minister and close Blair ally, added his voice to those concerns
Sunday, warning that the public would respond to an unelected
leader "with an indifferent shrug".


"What he (Brown) needs to do is clear up this uncertainty and the
only way he can do that is by setting out his stall and giving
the public a sense of ownership," he told BBC television.


Labour's National Executive Committee moved last week to counter
that difficulty, ruling that Brown would still have to make his
case to all party members if he is the only candidate.


And the endorsement from a high-profile party figure like Straw
-- now leader of the lower House of Commons and previously tipped
for the deputy leadership post -- also appears to be an attempt
to dispel those fears.


"As the budget (on Wednesday) showed, Gordon Brown is supremely
well-qualified to build on the huge achievement of Tony Blair's
premiership, to keep the Labour Party united, to give us the
strategic vision to take on and defeat the Tories at the next
election and, above all, show the strength of leadership our
nation demands.


"It will be a personal pleasure for me to help ensure that Gordon
Brown becomes our next prime minister and continues the positive
transformation of the country which Labour has secured since
1997," Straw wrote.


Blair, Labour leader since 1994 and prime minister since 1997, is
expected to announce his resignation after elections to English
and Scottish municipal councils, and the devolved Scottish
Parliament and Welsh Assembly in May.


Straw said no leadership campaign would get under way until after
those elections, in which analysts predict Labour could see heavy
losses.

