

US-led coalition troops and Afghan forces killed 23 Taliban
militants in two separate clashes in south and southeastern
Afghanistan, Afghan army and coalition officials said Sunday.


A group of armed Taliban attacked an Afghan and coalition base in
the Lawara area of Gian district in southeastern Paktika province
early Sunday, sparking a three-hour gunbattle, regional Afghan
army commander Mohammad Akram Sami told AFP.


"Coalition forces killed 12 insurgents near Fire Base Tillman in
Paktika Province last night," said a coalition press statement.


Sami had earlier said they killed seven militants and their
bodies were left at the site, while two wounded insurgents were
arrested, one of them a Pakistani national.


Coalition forces called in aviation support and indirect
artillery fire to support the defence of the fire base, the
statement said.


Two coalition and two Afghan soldiers were slightly wounded in
the attack and one of the Afghan soldiers was medically evacuated
for further treatment at a coalition medical treatment facility,
it said.


In a separate incident on Saturday a joint force of Afghan army,
police and intelligence killed 11 Taliban militants in Lashkar
Gah, the capital of Helmand province, the defence ministry said.


"Eleven enemies of peace were killed in the sweep-up operation,"
it said in a statement.


The operation in Helmand was launched following a major battle
with Taliban militants on Thursday in which 69 insurgents and
seven police were killed.


In another incident five Afghan border police were injured in a
land mine blast early Sunday in Spinboldak district of southern
Kandahar province, police commander Mohammad Raziq told AFP.


Another bomb blast in Khost city, wounded two civilians, a
provincial government spokesman told AFP.


South and southeastern Afghanistan have been the regions most
affected by the Taliban-led insurgency, which claimed more than
4,000 lives in 2006.


The hardline Taliban regime was ousted in US-led offensive in
late 2001.


Taliban loyalists have stepped up their attacks in the past
weeks, although military officials reject the rebels' talk of a
"spring offensive" as propaganda.

