

Arab leaders hold a summit in Riyadh on Wednesday with attention
focused on reviving a contentious initiative offering Israel
peace in return for withdrawal from captured Arab lands.


The Arab League summit will take place amid a flurry of diplomacy
in the region, including tours by US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and UN chief Ban Ki- moon, but hopes of a peace
breakthrough are limited.


On Sunday, Rice held talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
and Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas, a day after a meeting other
Arab officials in a bid to revive negotiations with Israel.


The Saudi-inspired Arab plan offers recognition of the Jewish
state if it returns to its 1967 borders, permits the creation of
an independent Palestinian state and allows the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative when it was
first made at the Beirut Arab summit in 2002, but Israeli leaders
have recently spoken more positively of the ideas as a starting
point for negotiations.


While declining to say whether Washington also wants changes,
Rice said the plan should turn from a set of static "principles"
that leaves all the work to Israel into an active diplomatic
endeavour involving negotiations.


"This is going to be a process of coming to a place where the
Arab initiative is really an active initiative -- that is
structured discussions between parties," she said. "I don't think
we're there yet."


But the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, reasserted
on Sunday that the plan's details were not up for discussion.


"There is no amendment or change to the Arab peace initiative. I
have already said it 20 times, and this is the last time that I
repeat it," Prince Saud told journalists.


Egypt and Jordan have adopted the same position.


The summit will instead reaffirm the league's commitment to the
plan and adopt measures to publicise it around the world, said
Mohammed Subeih, an assistant secretary general for the Arab
League.


It will also provide a forum for the Palestinian Islamist Hamas,
at the head of a new unity government, to commit itself to the
Arab plan and ease a Western aid embargo because of its non-
recognition of Israel, an Arab minister said.


During the Beirut summit five years ago, the Hamas movement was
not a player in the political process.


War-torn Iraq and Somalia, politically divided Lebanon, the
crisis in Sudan's Darfur and Iran's controversial nuclear drive
will also be discussed at the summit, Deputy Secretary General
Ahmed ben Helli said.


Ahead of the summit, Saudi Arabia hosted a reconciliation meeting
between rival Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas, and launched
talks with non-Arab Iran aimed at solving the political crisis in
Lebanon.


Arab leaders are also expected to encourage amendment of the
Iraqi constitution which in its current form would split Iraq
into federal regions.


Iran's nuclear activity and its negative effects on its Arab
neighbours will also be on the agenda, with Iranian Foreign
Minister Manouchehr Mottaki due to attend the opening session, an
Arab official said.


Nevertheless, there is little expectation of a breakthrough at
the summit.


Following Riyadh's hosting of rival Palestinian factions, the new
power-sharing cabinet including Hamas and secular Fatah was sworn
in early this month in a bid to end infighting and the crippling
Western aid freeze.


King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and King Abdullah II of Jordan
agreed last week that the summit must "re-adopt" the Beirut
initiative, despite demands by Israel for modifications.


Israel wants clauses concerning the right of return of
Palestinian refugees to be amended.


One calls for the return of Palestinians who fled or were forced
out in 1948. The other rules out their permanent settlement in
the Arab states where they or their descendants currently live.


In the run-up to the summit, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
said his country was ready to make "big and painful" concessions
to advance the peace process and that the Saudi-inspired Arab
plan could be a starting point.

