

Rachida Raydi has lived for 27 years in a single room shack in
Casablanca bringing up seven children -- one of whom ended his
life as a suicide bomber.


"Abdelfettah is the product of our poverty," said the mother of
the man who blew himself up on March 11 in a Casablanca internet
cafe. He died, a suspected accomplice was wounded along with
three other people.


Abandoned by her husband, 46-year-old Rachida lives at number 57,
block 7 of Douar Skouila, in the Sidi Moumen prefecture, one
among the hundreds of Casablanca's shanty towns.


The only room is grimmer than a prison cell: it serves as
bedroom, dining room, kitchen and even toilet. A single light
bulb lights it up.


Outside dogs, cows and sheep stand around, chew the plastic bags,
drink from the foul-smelling open sewers -- and leave their own
mess behind them.


There is drinking water, thanks to one of the rare public
fountains, and the 2,300 families here hook up directly to the
electric pylons to get their lighting.


Abdelfettah Raydi was unemployed. His brother Ayoub was wanted by
the police and another is in prison. Another brother Mourad
worked in a factory -- until he was arrested the day after his
brother blew himself up.


Wearing a veil that covers her from her head to her feet, Rachida
tells how she is still raising Nabil, 14, Mehdi, eight and Saad,
seven.


She insists on her children's innocence. Abdelfettah had only
been arrested following the 2003 Casablanca bombings because of
his religious fervour, she said.


The May 2003 bombings, the biggest in Morocco's history, killed
45 people including 12 suicide bombers, and left dozens injured.


And she has bitter words for the police, who she accuses of
endlessly harassing her son after he came out of jail.


"He hadn't done anything to be convicted and after the royal
pardon he was granted in 2005, the police continued to persecute
him.


"They should have left him alone," she said, stressing that she
deplored violence and terrorism.


With 370 such shanty towns across Casablanca, that comes to
300,000 people crammed into 53,000 shacks like Rachida's -- or
nearly nine percent of the four million inhabitants of the city
and its suburbs, according to local figures.


But for other residents of Douar Skouila, it is not poverty that
leads to terrorism.


"Not even despair can lead someone to become a kamikaze," says
Kamal, a local man in his 30s who, like so many others, is
without a job.


"I think you become one through ignorance, illiteracy and
brainwashing."


Kamal is getting ready to go down to the local meeting place,
Cafe Grozny. the owner named it that in solidarity with the
people of the Russian region.


Opposite the cafe, the mosque is so full that dozens of the
faithful are obliged to pray on the scorching surfaces of the
surrounding lanes.


"We want to sensitise people to the dangers of religious
extremism," says Amili Abderrazak, a spokesman for the mosque.


"But what can you do when the prefecture cannot even make up its
mind over whether to give us permission to set up a branch of the
Moroccan human rights association?"


Two weeks after the attack, it is the news of a relocation plan
that has captured the imagination of local residents.


"It's just a distraction, the same promises that we got after the
May 16, 2003 attacks. I don't believe it," says Lalla Khadija, a
mother in her 50s who has lived in the neighbourhood for 30
years.


Even if the project did come to something, locals say they do not
have the 30,000 dirhams (2,800 euros, 3,700 dollars) they would
need to move into one of the new apartments on offer.

