

Homes turned to rubble, windows shattered, roads caved in and
water pipes burst as a huge earthquake shook Japan out of its
slumber, throwing frightened residents to the ground.


At least 170 people were injured and one person was killed by the
6.9-magnitude earthquake, which rocked the western coast of
Japan's main island of Honshu while many were enjoying a quiet
Sunday morning at home.


"It was the scariest earthquake I've ever felt in my life," said
Kazuo Yamada, 45, an official at the chamber of commerce in Nanao
City.


"Retailers are busy cleaning up the mess in their shops while
others are still trying to assess the damage," he added.


"Our child cannot stop trembling from fear," one woman who
evacuated with a toddler told local television.


The injuries occurred mostly from flying objects, or as people
were thrown off their feet by the powerful tremor.


One 52-year-old woman died after being hit by a stone lantern in
a garden, while two elderly men were seriously injured after
being buried by a pile of fertiliser which collapsed.


Four people clinging to a capsized boat had to be rescued by the
coast guard after the quake, which triggered a brief tsunami
alert.


More than 200 buildings were damaged and 25 were completely
destroyed in Wajima alone, while hundreds more were left without
power across the region, which is famous for its temples, hot
springs and lacquerware.


"I've never experienced such shaking. I felt a strong tremor from
underground when I was in the kitchen and then a cupboard fell
down," said guest house owner Sachiko Tanaka in Wajima, one of
the worst-hit areas.


"Garden lanterns tumbled, breaking a sheet of window glass," she
said.


Cracks appeared in roads and a runway at a local airport and
trains were suspended, hampering efforts to send relief workers
to the Noto peninsula.


Local residents took cover in emergency shelters as aftershocks
continued to shake the area, including one powerful 5.3-magnitude
quake that shook the prefectural capital Kanazawa.


"The tremors were really terrible," said city official Masahiro
Onishi. "Lots of people are moving to shelters now but we don't
see any panic in my region. We still feel aftershocks but people
are acting orderly."


Water pipes burst in many places across the region but the hot
springs were operating as usual, local hoteliers reported.


"Our tap water supply is still disrupted so we can't have a
shower, but our hot spring is fine for a bath," said Emiko
Hamaguchi, a hotel clerk in Wajima.

