

Two days of clashes in the Democratic Republic of Congo capital
between the army and opposition forces left more than 120 dead,
aid groups said Sunday as more bodies arrived in hospital
morgues.


The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said there
could be "hundreds of fighters and civilians dead and wounded"
from the fighting Thursday and Friday as former vice president
Jean-Pierre Bemba refused to let his personal guard be integrated
into the army.


"There were dozens of dead bodies left lying at the roadside,
many of them civilians. It was a distressing sight," Max Hadorn,
head of the Red Cross delegation in Kinshasa, said in a
statement.


At least 90 bodies packed the morgue at Kinshasa general hospital
by Sunday morning and more were arriving during the day, hospital
sources told AFP.


The Caritas charity said there were 20 bodies at the Kintambo
hospital, six at the Ngaliema clinic and two at St Joseph
hospital.


The charity reported 148 people seriously wounded at the
hospitals following the clashes around Bemba's residence.


About 2,000 troops fought Bemba's 700 fighters in the Gombe
district of the capital.


The government had given a provisional toll of 60 dead on
Saturday.


Kinshasa general hospital reported critical shortages of blood,
dressings, gloves, surgical thread and even food for the wounded.


Many victims were in critical condition because they were trapped
for several hours in the street fighting and could not be
treated.


At the Ngaliema clinic, one woman told AFP how she had to hold
her intestines in her stomach for four hours until someone could
rescue her.


She was hit by a bullet as she rushed to collect her children
from school and the ambulance that came to collect her was
riddled with bullets.


The Congo capital was calm again Sunday after most of Bemba's
fighters had fled or agreed to join government forces.


But the International Committee of the Red Cross reported
"hundreds of fighters and civilians dead and wounded."


The organisation has dispatched a plane carrying a surgeon and
supplies. Some 25 volunteers from the organisation have been sent
to help collect bodies off the streets, and more were expected to
arrive Sunday.


The Red Cross was also seeking to provide protection for those
who have been arrested in connection with the violence, it said.


Bemba, who lost the presidential election in October to Joseph
Kabila, had refused to have his vice-presidential bodyguard
integrated into the regular army, arguing that his personal
security could not be guaranteed.


When the clashes erupted, Bemba sought refuge in the South
African embassy in Kinshasa. The DRC government has since issued
an arrest warrant for Bemba for high treason.

