

Power-sharing in Northern Ireland could still happen on Monday,
despite the largest Protestant party's request for a six-week
delay to a decision, Britain's Northern Ireland secretary said.


"I will be signing a restoration order today (Sunday) because
there is a chance devolution will happen tomorrow (Monday),"
Peter Hain told AFP, as the clock ticked to a 2300 GMT Monday
deadline for agreement to be reached.


"If I don't sign a restoration order, it (the Northern Ireland
Assembly in Belfast) all shuts down immediately then a
dissolution order is signed.


"I don't want to do that because the parties still have an
opportunity to form an executive and an assembly as of now."


In a separate interivew with Sky News television, Hain hailed the
Protestant Democractic Unionists Party's (DUP) decision Saturday
to agree to form an executive with their long-standing Catholic
rivals, Sinn Fein.


"This is another historic change, something that people said
would never happened, like all the other things that have
happened in recent times," he said.


But he refused to say whether the Monday deadline was now
flexible, saying London's position remained the same, unless all
the parties -- and not just the DUP -- agreed on an alternative
way forward.


Hain said Monday still meant "devolution or dissolution", warning
parties the assembly at Stormont would be wound up, and members'
salaries allowances and salaries stopped, if no deal was reached.


Northern Ireland would then be run indefinitely from London with
input from the Republic of Ireland.


"Everybody knows where everybody stands," he told AFP.


The 120-member executive of Ian Paisley's DUP, which favours
union with Britain, agreed to strike a deal with the republicans
of Sinn Fein, but only if London gives them six weeks to overcome
remaining hurdles.


Hain confirmed to AFP that during talks last week, Paisley twice
attempted to persuade him and British Prime Minister Tony Blair
to introduce emergency legislation on Monday to implement the
six-week delay.


"Ian Paisley and his colleagues on Wednesday came to see the
prime minster and me and asked us to introduce emergency
legislation then and the prime minister said he couldn't do it.


"They came again on Friday night with a different position, which
was put to their executive (on Saturday) and their executive
committed themselves to power- sharing with Sinn Fein.


"Let's wait and see. In the absence of the parties themselves
coming to us and saying, we have an alternative way forward, we
are going to do it our way: Stormont will close down if
devolution doesn't happen."

