

International pressure mounted on Iran on Sunday to free 15
British naval personnel but British authorities admitted they do
not know where the group are being held.


The British ambassador in Tehran again demanded the release of
the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines but got no
response, officials said.


The 14 men and one woman were seized on the Shatt al-Arab
waterway that divides Iraq and Iran on Friday. Britain says they
were conducting "routine" anti- smuggling operations. Iran said
Saturday that the group has admitted illegally entering Iranian
waters.


"We don't know where they are. We wish we did. We are asking
whether they are being moved around inside Iran," Lord David
Triesman, a Foreign Office junior minister, said in an interview
with Sky News television.


The British ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, met senior
officials at the Iranian foreign ministry on Sunday to seek the
freedom of the group, a Foreign Office spokesman in London told
AFP.


Adams "pressed again for the release of our personnel, asked
where they are being held and for consular access", he added.


Iran's foreign ministry provided no immediate response and
further meetings were a possibility, he added.


Triesman again denied that the group from HMS Cornwall had
deliberately entered Iranian territory.


"We've been very clear throughout that the British sailors don't
intentionally enter into Iranian waters," he said. "There's no
reason for them to do so. We don't intend to do so. and I think
people should accept that there's good faith in that assertion."


On Saturday, the Germany presidency of the European Union called
for their "immediate release" and said Germany's ambassador to
Tehran had also spoken with the Iranian government about the
matter.


Iran's ambassador to London has twice been summoned to the
Foreign Office. On Friday he met a senior civil servant and
Triesman on Saturday.


Triesman said Britain wanted the Iranians to reassure the group's
families that they were in good health and unharmed.


The group's seizure comes three years after eight British Royal
Navy personnel training their Iraqi counterparts on the same
stretch of waterway were detained for three days by Iran.


They were blindfolded, paraded on Iranian television and
apologised for their actions -- although Britain denied illegal
encroachment -- before being released.


Triesman said that while negotiations were "very difficult and
delicate", he was confident that there would be a "good outcome"
to the latest incident.


But it comes amid a much different political situation, with
Britain and Western governments at loggerheads with Iran over its
disputed nuclear programme.


The United Nations Security Council on Saturday unanimously voted
to impose new sanctions on Iran over its refusal to abandon
uranium enrichment.


British newspapers have expressed fears the sailors might be used
as a bargaining chip in the mounting war of words over the
nuclear crisis. One speculated that the sailors detention looked
like a "hostage crisis".


"The source of a dispute matters less than the leverage Tehran
thinks it can extract from it," The Guardian said.


Iran has accused the British military of seeking to "create a
climate of tension at a moment when a resolution on Iran is to be
put to the vote, despite the fact that Iran seeks calm and
stability in the region".


"The questioning of the British sailors is continuing to try to
establish their real intentions," he added.


Triesman was asked Sunday about any possible links between the
two events but played down the suggestion.


"We have been assured that's not the case. Our own view is that
these things aren't linked," he said.

