

France's Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal has sent
sparks flying in the election race by calling for supporters to
reclaim the French national anthem and flag from far-right
nationalists.


Four of Royal's recent rallies have wrapped up with loudspeakers
blasting out the national anthem, "La Marseillaise" -- more often
associated in French politics with Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-
immigration National Front party.


On Friday, Royal told reporters during a trip to the French
Riviera -- long a bastion of the far-right -- that, if elected,
she would "ensure that the French know the words to La
Marseillaise, and that every family owns a national flag" to "fly
from their window on national holidays."


"We need to reconquer the symbols of the nation" instead of
"abandoning the national anthem to the extreme right," she said.
"And at the same time learn to see these symbols in a new way."


Observers saw the new twist in Royal's campaign as a response to
a drive by the right-wing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy to reclaim
the theme of "national identity" from the far-right.


On Saturday, organisers played the anthem at a meeting she
attended in Villeurbanne, a rough surburb of the eastern city of
Lyon.


It was a potent symbol in a room packed with residents of the
suburbs, many of whom are the French-born children and
grandchildren of African immigrants and who often complain of
being treated like second-rate citizens.


But Royal's comments sparked an uproar on the far-left, where she
was accused of cheapening France's national symbols.


The communist candidate Marie-George Buffet said the flag and
anthem were "two symbols of the Republic that belong to the
people -- not scraps to be fought over."


The anti-capitalist candidate Jose Bove accused Royal of seeking
to "Americanise our country by hanging a French flag from every
window", and of chasing after Sarkozy on the question of national
identity.


The Socialist leader in parliament, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said in an
interview with the Journal du Dimanche that Royal wanted "to
rehabilitate patriotism of the heart, where what counts is not
people's origins, but the Republican values that bring us
together."


He opposed Royal's vision to what he said was Sarkozy's
"patriotism of fear" that "orders people to love France or leave
it."


Sarkozy -- who steps down Monday as interior minister to focus
full-time on the race -- also says his concept of "national
identity" is about the defence of core French values, not race or
origin.


Members of his ruling Union for a Popular Movement held a rally
in the Paris suburbs Saturday to explain his position.


With four weeks to go until the April 22 first round of the
election, Sarkozy currently leads the race, ahead of Royal and
the centrist Francois Bayrou. Le Pen is in fourth place, far
ahead of the eight remaining candidates.

