

A powerful 6.9-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Japan
on Sunday, killing one person, injuring more than 100 others and
triggering a brief tsunami alert, officials said.


Dozens of buildings collapsed and residents took cover in
emergency shelters as aftershocks continued to rattle Japan's
main island of Honshu following the initial quake, which hit at
about 9:42 am (0042 GMT), triggering landslides.


Japan's meteorological agency initially estimated the magnitude
of the quake at 7.1 but later revised their figures.


The agency lifted its tsunami warning for the Noto peninsula on
the island's west coast facing the Sea of Japan (East Sea) after
about two hours, as only small waves hit the shore.


One woman, 52-year-old Kiyomi Miyakoshi, died after being hit by
a block of stone. A total of 109 people were taken to hospital
for treatment, including 10 who were seriously injured, local
police said.


More than 20 buildings collapsed in the city of Wajima, one of
the most heavily damaged areas, the fire department said.


"The tremors were really terrible," said city official Masahiro
Onishi. "Lots of people were moving to shelters now, but we don't
see any panic in my region."


"We still feel aftershocks but people are acting orderly."


Some roads to the quake-hit area were blocked by landslides
triggered by the huge quake, the police department said.


In the city of Nanao, officials said they had received reports of
a fire and a ruptured water main. Electricity was cut off to
about 100 households there.


The epicentre of the quake was located under the sea bed about
300 kilometres (200 miles) northwest of the capital Tokyo, where
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe rushed to his office after the quake to
monitor relief efforts.


"I ordered respective government departments to obtain
information about damage and to do their best to assure the
safety of local residents," Abe told reporters.


The government, which has set up a special earthquake information
office, was to dispatch a team of inspectors to assess damage in
the area, top government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a press
conference.


Japan's defence ministry dispatched disaster relief troops after
a request from the governor of Ishikawa prefecture.


The National Police Agency sent a team of 400 rescuers from
nearby Aichi, Gifu, Fukui and Niigata prefectures.


"We don't know what the situation is like there yet, but the
officers will conduct relief and rescue operations," said a
police spokesman.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures
about 20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes, which
frequently jolt Tokyo and other major cities.


The country prides itself on having one of the world's most
accurate systems for assessing earthquakes and predicting
tsunamis.


In December 2004, more than 220,000 people were killed when a
massive tsunami battered nations along the Indian Ocean.


The tragedy led to worldwide calls for a more effective tsunami
response system -- including both the technology to predict the
disasters and the means to get the message out.


Two large earthquakes struck Sunday off the coast of the tiny
Pacific island nation of Vanuatu at 0030 GMT, just before the
Japan quake, but local authorities said they were unlikely to
lead to any casualties.

