

Germany's Britta Kamrau-Corestein carved out a piece of history
Sunday when she became the joint most prolific open water swimmer
by claiming the gruelling women's 25km title.


Kamrau-Corestein had a lead of four minutes when the race was
suspended at the halfway point due to strong winds and big waves
on Saturday and she held on when it restarted Sunday.


The German was able to maintain her distance from a chasing pack
of four swimmers throughout almost three hours of racing to win
by two minutes and 27 seconds from America's Kalyn Keller and
Russia's Ksenia Popova.


It brought her level with the now retired Edith van Dijk of the
Netherlands as the leading open water world championship medal
winner with 14. She has won six gold, two silver and six bronze.


She said she was happy with winning but took a swipe at world
swimming's governing body FINA for dithering over whether to hold
the race again or award the medals based on Saturday's
performances.


"I am very happy with the result. Saturday was really tough and I
really think I deserved it," she said.


"The first mistake was telling us that they would have awarded
the medals according to the results after Saturday.


"Then they discussed it for a long time and at about 6pm they
told us we had to swim the race again, after we were very tired
and spent the day just waiting for it.


"It was a strange decision as it can happen that you have a
thunderstorm or something and at a FINA world championships you
expect there to be a rule for this."


In the men's event, veteran Russian Yury Kudinov powered through
the cold water of Port Phillip Bay to outpace Italy's Marco
Formentini and Egypt's Mohamed Zanaty and win in five hours, 16
minutes and 45 seconds.


He crossed the finish line more than two minutes ahead of
Formentini -- in his first 25km race -- to win his fifth world
championship medal.


"All the competitors wanted to win this and it was a very heavy
race because the weather is not good and the water is cold," said
the Russian.


"I'm very happy because I swam my first world championship here
in Australia (Perth) nine years ago and now I have won here.


"I felt so strong but our race was hard work and looking at other
sportsmen who I saw behind, yes, I was scared. I swam the last
three or four laps very fast."


Of the six open water gold medals decided here Russia has four
and Germany two.

