

A police probe into the cause of the "mud volcano" that has made
15,000 people homeless in Indonesia's East Java, points to
negligence by a mining company, reports said Sunday.


Mud began to flow out of a gas exploratory drilling well operated
by Pt Lapindo Brantas in Sidoarjo, East Java in May 2006.


The mud has since flooded some 600 hectares (1,500 acres) of land
and submerged whole villages.


"All depositions by experts say that there is a correlation
between the mudflow and the activities of the Lapindo exploratory
well.


"Therefore, according to police investigations, there is clearly
a link between the Lapindo well and the mud outflow," East Java
Police Chief Herman Suryadi Sumawiredja said, according to the
Kompas newspaper.


Speaking on Saturday, Suryadi said that the police have
questioned eight experts over the cause of the outflow dubbed the
"mud volcano."


The probe concluded that the mud had began to break out to the
surface because of negligence by PT Lapindo Brantas during
drilling at the well, but Suryadi gave no further details.


The police have declared 13 people as suspects in the case, all
of whom are executives of Pt Lapindo Brantas or field workers.
Their indictments were still being prepared.


Kompas also quoted the head of the Indonesian Geologists
Association, Andang Bachtiar, as saying that Lapindo's use of mud
to offset fluid coming out from the well was of a wrong density
and caused the shaft to crack.


Rudi Rubiandini, an oil and gas expert from the Bandung Institute
of Technology, said that the company had used the regulatory
steel casing to drill the well only up to a depth of 3,600 feet
and dispensed with its use for the remaining 5,700 feet.


Meanwhile in Sidorarjo, efforts to curb the mud outflow by
dropping chains of concrete balls down the main mud crater
remained hampered by heavy rains.


"Because of the rains in the past few days, we have been unable
to resume our operations," said Satria Bijaksana, an expert from
the Bandung Institute, who devised the audacious plan.


Bijaksana told AFP that the rains had made access dangerous for
the heavy machinery used in dropping the chains, each of which
links four concrete balls.


A total of 374 such chains have been dropped in the first phase
that ended earlier this month and another 500 strings are
expected to be inserted in the current phase.

