

European Union leaders adopted a 50th anniversary declaration
here Sunday setting 2009 as the deadline for preparing a new
treaty to replace its rejected constitution.


The "Berlin Declaration" was signed by German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and the
President of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering, as EU
leaders looked on.


The word "constitution" was not mentioned in the two-page
document at the request of many of the 27 member states, in
particular Britain, the Czech Republic and Poland.


The draft constitution, designed to allow an enlarged bloc to
operate, was rejected in referendums in the Netherlands and
France in 2005.


In the declaration signed in the German Historical Museum on
Sunday, the member nations say they are "united in our aim of
placing the European Union on a renewed common basis before the
European Parliament elections in 2009."


Written in the name of "We, the citizens of the European
Union...," the text praises achievements such as peace and
stability in Europe and sets major challenges as fighting
terrorism and racism, as well as combatting global warming.


It also outlines successes like the introduction of the euro and
border-free travel.


Merkel said in a speech before the signing that Europe could take
none of its cherished ideals -- peace and  freedom, democracy and
the rule of law -- for granted, and urged the bloc to get to
grips with its institutional crisis.


"It must ensure that even with 27 or more member states its
institutions function efficiently, democratically and in a way
which citizens understand. Much is at stake," the chancellor
said.


She said her experience growing up in communist East Germany had
shaped her idea of freedom and justice in Europe.


"I never thought that I would be able to freely travel to the
rest (of the continent) before I became a pensioner," said
Merkel, 52.


"But my own experience shows that nothing has to remain the way
it is."


Barroso urged the leaders to tackle the constitution issue soon
and warned that Europe risked falling behind the rest of the
world if it did not.


"A Europe of results demands efficient, democratic and coherent
institutions. We must equip the European Union for
globalisation," Barroso said.


The declaration was the highpoint of a weekend of celebrations to
mark 50 years since the signing on March 25, 1957, of the Treaty
of Rome, which founded the forerunner of the EU, the European
Economic Community.


After the signing, the heads of state and government were to pose
for a photograph under warm spring sunshine at the Brandenburg
Gate in a symbol of unity near where the Berlin Wall once divided
Europe.


The leaders will then hold a working lunch focused on the themes
of Europe and the future, and Europe in the world, while street
festivals people throughout the German capital.


As the leaders got down to the serious business of the weekend,
many younger Europeans who had come to the German capital were
still recovering from a night of concerts, exhibitions or
clubbing.


"I've lived in Berlin for 15 years and I feel at home here," said
Nicolas, a 39 -year-old Frenchman at one of the 35 nightclubs
open overnight. "That's what Europe is for me."


Commemorations for the 50th anniversary were held across Europe
with concerts and other mainly symbolic events.

