

South Korean sensation Park Tae-Hwan came with a late finish to
give Asian swimming a massive boost by winning the men's
400-metres freestyle final at the world swimming championships
here Sunday.


Park underlined his rapid improvement by downing Tunisian Oussama
Mellouli and defending Australian world champion Grant Hackett in
the first swimming final of the championships.


Park, the youngest swimmer in the race at 17, surged home to win
in three minutes 44.30 seconds from Mellouli (3:45.12) with
Hackett fading after leading midway to get the bronze in 3:45.43.


The Korean won the 200-400-1500m freestyle titles at last
December's Asian Games in Doha and is now the world champion
after a climb through the rankings.


"I am the first Korean world champion in (swimming) history,"
Park said.


"Mentally I feel really tired, but after winning the gold I feel
very confident. When I saw my name on the screen I forgot how I
was feeling."


He was second fastest in the morning heats to American Peter
Vanderkaay, who was never a show in the final and finished in
fifth.


Park became the first Asian winner of the world 400m title which
has been the domain of Australian swimmers Ian Thorpe, Kieren
Perkins and Hackett since the 1994 Rome championships.


Hackett shrugged off his sluggish heat swim which left him in an
unaccustomary lane eight to lead during the middle stages.


But he was unable to go on with it and his disrupted training
buildup showed its effects on a swimmer who won the title in 2005
and was a three-time silver medallist behind Thorpe.


"It's really difficult outside the pool to see across and see
everyone's position," Hackett said.


"So I just had to take it out, swim my own race and hope I
touched the wall in first place, but unfortunately I didn't."


Mellouli was delighted with his silver medal swim.


"I had a really smart race. It's the best finish I ever had at a
world championships," said Mellouli, who was a bronze medallist
behind Hackett in Montreal two years ago.


"I'm really excited and I'm looking forward to some fast swims in
the future."


Vanderkaay said his heat swim drained him in the final.


"It was exhausting, I thought I could do better tonight," he
said. "I realised I was lot more tired from this morning. I used
a little too much (in the heat)."

