

Even with a solution to Kosovo's disputed status, the province's
economy remains a dire problem with almost half the working
population jobless and investment only trickling in.


The province, scene of a bitter 1998-99 war, has one of Europe's
poorest economy. Many villages only have electricity for 12 hours
a day. Much of the population lives below the poverty line.


Its registered per capita yearly income in 2005 was an estimated
1,243 euros (1,600 dollars).


"For eight years we have been standing still, depending mostly on
foreign assistance, donations and financial aid from the
(Albanian) diaspora," said Halil Maxhuni, an economist for a non-
government group in Pristina.


Kosovo has been in limbo since 1999, when NATO intervened to halt
a crackdown by Serbian forces against ethnic Albanians.


As the political front gets easier, with UN special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari about to give his status report to the UN Security
Council, many fear that the economy will remain a major hurdle.


Kosovo has only a "limited" capacity to solve its challenges,
particularly economic, Ahtisaari said in his written status
proposal.


Up to 2004, the international community spent between two and
three billion dollars in Kosovo a year, mostly on reconstruction
and development, according to unofficial estimates.


Pierre Mirel, European Union official for enlargement said in
Pristina last week that the EU will provide 200 million euros
(265.7 million dollars) assistance for Kosovo over the next two
years.


A donor conference may be held for Kosovo once the political
agreement is hammered out.


"There hasn't been any significant foreign investment in Kosovo
so far. We need foreign capital," said Isa Mustafa, a Pristina
University professor.


Maxhuni predicted that "financial markets will open up" for
Kosovo when its final status is resolved with Serbia. Ahtisaari
has proposed that Kosovo be allowed to join international
institutions.


"A clear status will for the first time open a path for market
economy and essential solution for unemployment and poverty,"
said Maxhuni.


Before the conflict, much of the economy was based on industry,
mostly energy, mining and metallurgy.


The war wrecked the industrial sector and power supplies.


According to Economic Initiative for Kosova (ECIKS), a non-profit
group surveying the province, up to 43,000 private businesses
have opened in Kosovo since the end of the conflict in 1999.


While most of this has been on a small scale, the private sector
has become one of the rare legal sources of income for the army
of unemployed.


The economy now relies on the thriving black market, with
smuggled cigarettes, fuel, construction material and cosmetics
now a key source of income for the unemployed.


According to a 2005 World Bank report, about 37 percent of
Kosovo's two million population lives below the poverty line on
the equivalent of 1.42 euros a day. Another 15 percent was in
extreme poverty on about 93 euro cents a day.


The UN mission's branch in charge of privatization, the Kosovo
Trust agency, has recently put up some 32 formerly state-owned
companies for sale -- among them a meat processing plant and
poultry farm -- in a bid to revive the free market.


But experts have called for more investment in production. "A
market economy will teach us that money is expensive and should
be invested carefully, not only in gas stations and restaurants,"
Maxhuni said.

