

Text of declaration adopted by EU leaders on Sunday to mark the
50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome:


DECLARATION ON THE OCCASION OF THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
SIGNATURE OF THE TREATY OF ROME


For centuries Europe has been an idea, holding out hope of peace
and understanding. That hope has been fulfilled.


European unification has made peace and prosperity possible. It
has brought about a sense of community and overcome differences.


Each Member State has helped to unite Europe and to strengthen
democracy and the rule of law.


Thanks to the yearning for freedom of the peoples of Central and
Eastern Europe the unnatural division of Europe is now consigned
to the past. European integration shows that we have learnt the
painful lessons of a history marked by bloody conflict.


Today we live together as was never possible before. We, the
citizens of the European Union, have united for the better.


I.


In the European Union, we are turning our common ideals into
reality: for us, the individual is paramount. His dignity is
inviolable. His rights are inalienable. Women and men enjoy equal
rights.


We are striving for peace and freedom, for democracy and the rule
of law, for mutual respect and shared responsibility, for
prosperity and security, for tolerance and participation, for
justice and solidarity.


We have a unique way of living and working together in the
European Union. This is expressed through the democratic
interaction of the Member States and the European institutions.


The European Union is founded on equal rights and mutually
supportive cooperation. This enables us to strike a fair balance
between Member States' interests.


We preserve in the European Union the identities and diverse
traditions of its Member States. We are enriched by open borders
and a lively variety of languages, cultures and regions.


There are many goals which we cannot achieve on our own, but only
in concert. Tasks are shared between the European Union, the
Member States and their regions and local authorities.


II.


We are facing major challenges which do not stop at national
borders. The European Union is our response to these challenges.


Only together can we continue to preserve our ideal of European
society in future for the good of all European Union citizens.
This European model combines economic success and social
responsibility.


The common market and the euro make us strong. We can thus shape
the increasing interdependence of the global economy and ever-
growing competition on international markets according to our
values.


Europe's wealth lies in the knowledge and ability of its people;
that is the key to growth, employment and social cohesion. We
will fight terrorism, organized crime and illegal immigration
together.


We stand up for liberties and civil rights also in the struggle
against those who oppose them. Racism and xenophobia must never
again be given any rein.


We are committed to the peaceful resolution of conflicts in the
world and to ensuring that people do not become victims of war,
terrorism and violence.


The European Union wants to promote freedom and development in
the world. We want to drive back poverty, hunger and disease. We
want to continue to take a leading role in that fight.


We intend jointly to lead the way in energy policy and climate
protection and make our contribution to averting the global
threat of climate change.


III.


The European Union will continue to thrive both on openness and
on the will of its Member States to consolidate the Union's
internal development.


The European Union will continue to promote democracy, stability
and prosperity beyond its borders. With European unification a
dream of earlier generations has become a reality.


Our history reminds us that we must protect this for the good of
future generations. For that reason we must always renew the
political shape of Europe in keeping with the times.


That is why today, 50 years after the signing of the Treaties of
Rome, we are united in our aim of placing the European Union on a
renewed common basis before the European Parliament elections in
2009. For we know, Europe is our common future.

