

India says boosting trade and easing travel restrictions within
South Asia will be the issues dominating a summit of the region's
leaders here early next month.


"The objective of the upcoming summit will be to see that the
spirit of SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation) is translated at different layers," Indian Foreign
Minister Pranab Mukherjee told the Press Trust of India news
agency in an interview.


"Visa restrictions have to be removed ... all these issues we
will try to resolve at various levels, including at the summit
level," he said in the interview, excerpts of which were released
Sunday.


The New Delhi summit -- to be held on April 3-4 and attended by
the heads of government of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the
Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka -- will formally welcome
Afghanistan as its eighth member.


World powers the United States, the European Union, China and
Japan, as well as South Korea will be attending the summit for
the first time as "observers."


In his interview, Mukherjee said market reforms introduced by
South Asian nations had ensured "all the SAARC countries have had
good GDP growth over the last one-and-a-half decades, despite
many problems and political uncertainties."


"But this is not reflected in the intra-regional trade," he said,
noting that the volume of trade among SAARC countries was merely
five per cent.


Mukherjee said a proposal would be considered to set up an energy
grid to ensure energy deficient countries benefited from those in
the region with a surplus.


He also said he favoured free movement within the region of
professionals -- particularly from the IT sector, service
industries and businessmen.


Formed in 1985, SAARC "aims to accelerate the process of economic
and social development in member states," according to a
statement on the group's website.


But more than two decades on, SAARC has few achievements to show
for itself, mainly due to tensions between India and Pakistan.


Last year, New Delhi accused Islamabad of jeopardising a South
Asian Free Trade Agreement that came into force on January 1,
2006 and was aimed at creating the world's biggest free-trade
area.


The accord is seen as one of the best hopes of raising the living
standards of more than 1.4 billion South Asians.


Mukherjee said he hoped Pakistan would implement the South Asian
Free Trade Agreement soon.


"Pakistan has been raising certain non-tariff issues, which we
will try to address," he said.

