

Despite mortar fire greeting their arrival in the lawless Somali
capital, Ugandan soldiers are upbeat about the task in hand, as
they also set about winning over the hearts and minds of local
people.


As the vanguard of a planned 8,000-strong African Union
peacekeeping force known as AMISOM, the 1,500 Ugandan troops have
set up their headquarters in the ruins of a Mogadishu villa.


Inside to the hum of crackling radios, shouting and walking
about, staff officers have moved into windswept rooms equipped
with a few pieces of plastic furniture following their March 6
arrival.


"We are still settling down. We are lacking means but we are
doing our best to implement our mandate," the commander of the AU
peacekeeping force in Somalia General Levy Karuhanga said.


"Our mandate is to provide support and assistance to the TFG
(Somali transitional government) to able it to rebuild Somalia
and to carry out the reconciliation process."


Barely two months after the 53-member AU decided on a
multinational operation to bolster the government against
Islamist insurgents, the first deployment touched down at
Mogadishu airport.


Although Nigeria, Ghana, Malawi and Burundi are also due to send
troops, no precise timetable for their deployment has yet been
given and only the Ugandan military is so far present.


At their camp near the city's international airport, dozens of
khaki tents have been erected while machetes are used to clear
the immense compound and sandbags are piled up on the principle
routes.


For the soldiers' relaxation, a television has been hooked up to
a satellite antenna in a large building where sandbags provide
the office wall and stones improvise to serve as cantine seating.


"We are buying our supplies here from local suppliers and we are
cooking here. We are still receiving some equipment and step by
step we are settling down," spokesman for the Ugandan forces
Captain Paddy Ankunda said.


Faced with cases of malaria and acute diarrhea among the troops,
a field hospital was quickly set up, which has also proven a way
of reaching out to the local population.


"We receive civilians too suffering from cholera, as our
soldiers," army doctor Joseph Sabila told AFP.


"The problem comes from water that is contaminated. Now we see
the number of cases decreasing among our men because we received
a filtering machine."


For the Ugandan soldiers, it is important to step up direct
contact with local people in the shattered Horn of Africa nation
which has been without an effective government for more than 16
years.


Several Islamist leaders who controlled parts of the country
until the end of last year before being defeated by the
Ethiopian-backed Somali government had vowed to attack
foreigners.


"Now that we have treated some people, the word is spreading that
we are not nasty or dangerous and the people are coming," Captain
Ambrose Oiko, of the health services said.


After two days of clashes this week, the Ugandan troops prepared
a convoy of armoured vehicles for its first venture into the
centre of Mogadishu, where fierce fighting raged for three
straight days.


AU peacekeepers have taken up position at the notorious but
strategic K4 junction in southern Mogadishu, and control the
port, airport and government headquarters.


"From here we will organise patrols and steadily spread out to
all the areas of the town and secure it. But we need to receive
the whole force to do so," operations' commander Colonel Peter
Elwelu said.


Among the Ugandan troops are 40 women.


One is 23-year-old Lieutenant Winnie Nyakwera Baguma, who is
hardly visible atop her tank, which becomes a throbbing mass of
tonnes of steel as the tracks start moving.


"I'm a pioneer, I'm the first woman in the whole Ugandan Army to
become tank team leader," she said proudly. "I'm also the first
one in my family to have entered the army."


Asked about the Soviet-made T-55 tank, this petit woman clad in a
camouflage helmet said: "I like it because they are combative
vehicles, they are the support of infantry in battles.


"And the tank is the king of jungle."

