

A powerful 6.9-magnitude earthquake rocked Japan on Sunday,
killing one person, injuring 150 others, reducing homes to rubble
and destroying roads.


Hundreds of buildings were damaged and residents took cover in
emergency shelters as aftershocks rattled the Noto peninsula on
the western coast of Japan's main island of Honshu after the big
hit at about 9:42 am (0042 GMT).


Japan's meteorological agency initially estimated the magnitude
of the quake at 7.1 but later revised their figures.


The agency issued a tsunami warning for the Noto peninsula but
lifted the alert after about two hours, as only small waves hit
the shore.


The tremor triggered landslides and a thermal power plant halted
operations automatically but nuclear power plants in the area
reported no problems.


One woman, 52-year-old Kiyomi Miyakoshi, died after being hit by
a stone lantern in a garden. At least 149 people were hurt,
according to the local police and fire departments.


More than 200 buildings were damaged and 25 were completely
destroyed in the city of Wajima, one of the most heavily damaged
areas, while hundreds more were left without electricity in the
region, local officials said.


"The tremors were really terrible," said city official Masahiro
Onishi. "Lots of people are moving to shelters now but we don't
see any panic in my region. We still feel aftershocks but people
are acting orderly."


The meteorological agency said as many as 78 tremors strong
enough to be felt by local residents were detected in the area
within about four hours after the strong quake.


Some roads to the area were blocked by landslides triggered by
the huge quake, the police department said, while television
pictures showed sectors of roads destroyed.


The quake's epicentre was located under the sea bed about 300
kilometres (200 miles) northwest of the capital Tokyo, where
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe rushed to his office to monitor relief
efforts.


"I ordered respective government departments to obtain
information about damage and to do their best to assure the
safety of local residents," Abe told reporters.


The government, which has set up a special earthquake information
office, was to dispatch a team of inspectors to assess damage in
the area, top government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a press
conference.


Japan's defence ministry dispatched disaster relief troops to the
area while police sent a team of 400 rescuers.


"We don't know what the situation is like there yet, but the
officers will conduct relief and rescue operations," said a
police spokesman.


Among the injured were two elderly men aged 76 and 73 who were
buried under a pile of fertiliser which collapsed, a Nanao city
police officer said.


One was reported to have fractures of his skull and both legs
while the other suffered facial injuries.


The Japan Coast Guard said one of its patrol ships found four
people adrift holding onto a capsized boat off Toyama prefecture,
which is adjacent to the Noto peninsula.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures
about 20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes, which
frequently jolt Tokyo and other major cities.


The country prides itself on having one of the world's most
accurate systems for assessing earthquakes and predicting
tsunamis.


Two large earthquakes also struck Sunday off the coast of the
tiny Pacific island nation of Vanuatu just before the Japan
quake, but local authorities said they were unlikely to lead to
any casualties.

