

Brigitte Mohnhaupt, a former leader of the Red Army Faction group
which terrorised Germany in the 1970s, left jail Sunday after
serving 24 years for a series of guerrilla murders.


The plan to release the 57-year-old Mohnhaupt, who was once
considered Germany's most dangerous woman, on parole has caused
widespread controversy.


Mohnhaupt, who was convicted for her role in nine murders in the
left wing group's campaign against the West German state in the
1970s, was released from a prison in southern Germany in the
early hours, justice official Wolfgang Deuschl said.


"Frau Mohnhaupt has been freed," he told reporters, adding that
the woman was collected at the prison by friends.


A German court last month granted her parole because she has
served her minimum sentence and is no longer considered a threat.


But the families of the victims of the RAF, also known as the
Baader-Meinhof Gang, have bitterly opposed the release, partly
because Mohnhaupt has never expressed remorse for the murders.


She was part of the second generation of RAF leaders who took
over after Ulrike Meinhof, Andreas Baader, Jan-Carl Raspe and
Gudrun Ennslin were caught and committed suicide in jail.


The RAF's campaign reached a bloody crescendo in the so-called
German Autumn in 1977 when they kidnapped and killed leading
industrialist and former Nazi Hanns- Martin Schleyer and hijacked
a Lufthansa passenger plane with the help of Palestinian
militants.


Schleyer's widow was among those who opposed Mohnhaupt's release,
saying she was "appalled" at the move.


The RAF is believed to have killed 34 people. Its other victims
include the head of Dresdner Bank, Juergen Ponto, who was shot
dead on his doorstep.


The group also launched attacks against US military personnel
stationed in Germany.


In 1981, Mohnhaupt helped to launch a rocket attack on an
American general, Frederick Kroesen. He barely survived.


The former philosophy student was finally arrested at an RAF arms
cache in a forest near Frankfurt in 1982.


Her release had initially been scheduled for Tuesday.


Mohnhaupt has given no indication of what she wants to do outside
prison.


A priest who has regularly visited her in prison in Bavaria in
southern Germany over the past 15 years, said she was a "very
nice" person who would lead a peaceful life, like other former
RAF activists who had completed their prison sentences.


"The RAF has renounced violence and Brigitte Mohnhaupt did so
along with them," priest Siegfried Fleiner told AFP.


"She is an independent and intelligent woman," he added.


Fleiner said he believed Mohnhaupt will find it difficult to re-
adjust to life outside prison but added: "Lately she has been
reading several newspapers a day. She is very well-informed about
world events."


The RAF disbanded in 1988, but the hardliners and their class war
still fascinates Germans.


In recent days newspapers have recalled the violence-filled
German Autumn in detail.


Some 20 former militants of the group have been freed after
serving lengthy sentences.


Only three still remain behind bars, including Christian Klar who
led the  group along with Mohnhaupt.


Klar was last month refused prison day releases after calling for
"the total defeat of the capitalists' aims" in a speech read out
on his behalf at a Marxist meeting in Berlin.


Mohnhaupt's release comes as Italy is again confronted with the
memory of the Red Brigades, who conducted a similar anti-
capitalist struggle in the 1970s, with the arrest of fugitive
Cesare Battisti who was long sheltered in France.

