

As European Union leaders solemnly marked the 50th anniversary of
the bloc's founding treaty, ordinary Europeans let loose with
concerts, tree-plantings, giant puzzles and other symbolic
events.


Hundreds of thousands of people filled the streets in many
European capitals over the weekend to salute the birthday.


In Rome, more than 100,000 people turned out for an all night
party organised by six universities in the Italian capital, where
the bloc's founding Treaty of Rome was signed on March 25, 1957.


There were dance performances, debates and concerts, as well as a
midnight fireworks display at Sapienza University.


On Sunday, a "European Village" opened in the heart of Rome's
historic centre, which had been shut off to traffic for the
occasion.


In Brussels, tens of thousands of spectators turned out for a
concert featuring Axelle Red, the Scorpions, UB40 and Nana
Mouskouri on Saturday night.


On Sunday, the European Movement, a group aimed at creating
European unity, continued its "rally for Europe" which allowed
people to visit nearly 200 official EU-linked buildings in the
Belgian capital that are generally off limits to the public.


The public was also allowed access to EU country embassies and
the European Commission building in Austria, which issued special
passport stamps for the occasion.


In Germany, where solemn official celebrations culminated Sunday
with the signing of the "Berlin Declaration," revelers partied
through the night at a giant Berlin bash featuring about 50 DJs
in 35 clubs, each representing a European country.


A number of other events were scheduled in the German capital on
Sunday, including a concert by Joe Cocker.


In Portugal, nearly 200 bands and orchestras across the country
were to play Beethoven's ninth symphony, "Ode to Joy", which is
the European Union anthem.


In Spain, most anniversary events took place on Friday, when
young people took turns reading the Rome treaty in the square in
front of Madrid's Royal palace. A huge puzzle representing the
gradual enlargement of the union was also laid out there.


In Romania, which only joined the EU in January, the anniversary
was marked with the planting of 50 trees outside of embassies and
government buildings in Bucharest.

