

Suspense swelled ahead of a Quebec election Monday that could
return federalists to power or take the French-speaking province
down a path toward independence from Canada.


Most analysts at the start of the campaign believed Liberal
Premier Jean Charest would win a second term and stave off a
plebiscite on Quebec independence for five years, an average
term.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois, which vowed to hold a
referendum if it won the election, has made massive strides in
the final stretch.


And an unexpected surge in support for rightist Action
Democratique du Quebec (ADQ), which favors more autonomy for
Quebec but not independence, has turned the election into a neck-
and-neck horse race.


Political analysts now say the contest is too close to call,
forcing observers in the Canadian capital Ottawa to the edge of
their seats.


Montreal's La Presse proclaimed "suspense" in a headline, while
the Toronto- based Globe and Mail said the ballot is the most
anticipated in 30 years.


A CROP survey published Saturday put the ruling Liberals ahead
with 34 percent support versus 28 percent for the separatist
Parti Quebecois and 26 percent for the ADQ.


Another poll by Leger Marketing also predicted a Liberal win with
35 percent of the popular vote, the Parti Quebecois at 29 percent
and the ADQ at 26 percent.


But a third tally by Strategic Counsel placed the Parti Quebecois
in the lead with 31 percent, the Liberals in second with 30
percent and the ADQ trailing with 28 percent.


"We can say for sure that the ADQ will not win. A minority
Liberal government is likely, but a PQ victory is still
possible," said pollster Claude Gauthier, vice president of CROP.


He pointed to "growing displeasure" with the Liberals over broken
promises to lower taxes and to improve health care as key factors
in Charest's collapse.


The ADQ meanwhile whittled support from the top two parties by
seducing Quebecers who dream of nationhood but are wary of
letting go of Canada, offering a compromise alternative to
staunch federalists and hardline separatists.


"You have an electorate that is fatigued about the sovereignty
debate, disappointed by the performance of the Liberals and not
impressed by (Parti Quebecois leader Andre) Boisclair," said
Allan Greg, chairman of Strategic Counsel.


Since 1976, the Liberals and the Parti Quebecois have won
alternate majority governments.


Previous Parti Quebecois governments held and lost two
referendums on breaking away from Canada in 1980 and 1995.
Federalists led by Charest narrowly won the second ballot.


Some analysts now envision the Liberals and Parti Quebecois
winning an equal number of seats in Quebec's National Assembly,
with the ADQ as king maker.


To maintain its grip on power, however, a Quebec minority
government would have to deal with at least one of the other
parties in the 125-seat Assembly.


If the Parti Quebecois wins, it would not be able to hold a
referendum, some pundits said, because none of the other parties
support splitting from Canada.


But the hazard of the first minority government in Quebec in 130
years has stumped most, with constitutional experts divided over
the political possibilities and the consequences for Canada.


A total 5.6 million Quebecers are eligible to vote in the
election.


Each of the three polls surveyed about 1,000 Quebec voters and is
accurate with a 3.0 percent to 3.1 percent margin of error.

