

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has urged his supporters to
gear up for presidential polls next year, conceding an
embarrassing defeat over plans to extend his rule to 2010,
analysts said.


"I think the view I am getting is that 2008 is preferable," the
New Ziana news agency quoted the veteran leader as telling his
party's women's league in Harare on Friday.


"If we are going to have an election, we must start organising
and mobilising support now."


Analysts said that by agreeing to elections next year, Mugabe has
bowed to opposition from cadres in his Zimbabwe African National
Union -- Patriotic Front (ZANU PF) who are opposed to plans to
give the him another two-year mandate.


"For the past 27 years, Mugabe always had his way but this time
he has admitted defeat from within his party," political
commentator Bill Saidi told AFP.


"He is now standing on shaky ground and may not be as confident
as he was when he went into the presidential elections in 2002."


The 83-year-old who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence in 1980
from Britain indicated he would step down at the end of his
current term next year.


But he made an about face last year, insisting that he would stay
put if his party was in danger of falling apart. His supporters
also proposed extending his term by two years in 2008 to allow
concurrent presidential and parliamentary polls.


While the ZANU PF central committee meets in Harare on Wednesday
to decide on the proposals, Mugabe appears to have already given
in to factions opposed to the extension of his rule.


"Now we are tending towards an election next year rather than an
election in 2010," Mugabe was quoted as saying by the Windhoek-
based Southern Times newspaper two weeks ago.


"That's what I am getting from quite a good many top leaders."


Masvingo State University analyst Takavafira Zhou said that
although Mugabe appeared to have suffered a setback, he still
represented a potent political force.


"This is an embarrassment for Mugabe, having to give in to
opposition from within the ranks of his own party," he said.


"But while this is an embarrassing defeat for Mugabe, the
opposition should remain sceptical rather than become complacent.


"Even though he has suffered defeat by his own people, Mugabe can
still win presidential elections next year.


"He realises if we hold elections in 2008, unless we change the
constitution to facilitate the holding of free and fair elections
and the electoral laws amended and the voters' rolls updated to
ensure there is no rigging, the chances for him to win by rigging
are very high."


Zhou said the main feeling in ZANU-PF was that Mugabe should step
down in 2008.


Mugabe has lashed out on several occasions at senior officials of
his party who were jostling to succeed him. He has repeatedly
said there is no vacancy for the presidency.


When Joyce Mujuru was elevated to vice-president in December
2004, Mugabe appeared to have anointed her as his successor,
saying she was "destined for higher office".


But relations with Mujuru appear to have significantly cooled,
and she was noticeably absent from Mugabe's birthday celebrations
last month.


She was reported last week to have made a secret visit to
neighbouring South Africa where she held private talks with her
counterpart, Phumzile Mlambo- Ngcuka.

