

Japan coach Ivica Osim's decision to call up Europe-based players
for the first time proved successful in a weekend win over Peru,
but he now wants more from them in the run-up to their Asian Cup
defence.


Celtic midfielder Shunsuke Nakamura set up goals by Seiichiro
Maki and Frankfurt striker Naohiro Takahara, leading Japan to a
2-0 victory over Peru on Saturday.


It was the first time that Osim called up Europe-based players
since his appointment last July, which came after Japan ended a
disappointing World Cup campaign in Germany with one draw and two
losses.


Saturday's win marked the first time Japan had beaten Peru in
four tries, after two losses and one draw. Under Brazilian legend
Zico, Japan was winless with five defeats and three draws against
South American teams.


Despite the win, and a massive crowd of 60,400 supporters, Osim
appeared less than satisfied with the quality of his team's
effort.


"It's neither meat nor fish. I mean, it's no good," the Serbian
said, singling out Nakamura for criticism.


"He must play quicker. Maybe he is under heavy pressure to do
something special. He tried to produce a nice cross each time he
played," Osim said.


"It's enough to play the role of a genius once in several times.
If you try to do that, it will end in a disaster. But he knows
it. He started to play better as the game went on."


Nakamura admitted he was not at his best on Saturday.


"I could have played better. Right now, it's more important for
me to integrate myself with the team, so I just tried not to lose
the team's momentum," he said.


"So far as I'm called up, I want to continue until 2010. I can
play better and better if I continue, it never goes the other
way," he added.


Osim had kinder words for Takahara, saying: "I understand that
it's not a mere happening he plays very well in the German
league."


Takahara's goal on Saturday was his 16th in 45 games for the
national side.


"I just turned round and hit the shot as I was able to control
the ball calmly. I wished I were able to score in our passing
play but I'm glad I scored, because I'm a forward," Takahara
said.


Osim, who led the former Yugoslavia to the 1990 World Cup
quarter-finals, plans to call up more Europe-based players to
prepare for the Asian Cup to be held in July, co-hosted by
Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand.


"The defence of the Asian Cup will be the marker by which we
measure the real capability of the Japanese team. We can consider
it as a preliminary drill of the Asian qualifying round for the
next World Cup," he said recently.

