

North Korea vowed Sunday to bolster its "self-defensive
deterrence," warning a military exercise launched by South Korea
and the United States could jeopardise nuclear disarmament talks.


The exercise had clouded the atmosphere of six-party talks on the
North's nuclear weapons programmes, the North's state newspaper
Minju Joson said in a commentary.


"This may entail such serious consequences as escalating the
tension between the DPRK (North Korea) and the US and scuttling
the six-party talks for the settlement of the nuclear issue on
the Korean Peninsula, arranged with so much effort."


The warning came as the week-long RSOI (Reception, Staging,
Onward Movement and Integration) and Foal Eagle exercise began
across South Korea Sunday. The allies say the exercise is purely
defensive.


But North Korea has condemned Washington for carrying out the
exercise while negotiations are underway with Pyongyang as part
of six-nation talks over the North's nuclear programmes.


"If the aggressors ignite a war on this land, the army and people
of the DPRK will resolutely retaliate against them with merciless
deadly blows," the Korean National Peace Committee said in a
statement.


North Korea would bolster its "self-defensive deterrence" for
defending its dignity and sovereignty, it said.


The North has used the words "self-defensive deterrence" when
referring to atomic bombs since its nuclear test last October.


The exercise is "harmful to the settlement of the nuclear issue
and peace of the Korean Peninsula and driving the situation to a
phase of confrontation and war," it said.


The committee also warned the exercise would drive inter-Korean
relations to collapse.


The exercise focuses on a mock battle aimed at preparing for the
sudden arrival of US reinforcements, US officials said earlier.
It also features anti-commando operations and computer war games.


As part of the exercise, the USS Ronald Reagan, a cruiser and two
destroyers have joined tens of thousands of US and South Korean
soldiers.


Outside a sprawling US military compound in Seoul, riot police
Sunday blocked a march by about 1,000 South Korean anti-war
activists who chanted slogans.


"The exercise threatens peace on the Korean peninsula as it comes
amid international efforts to denuclearise the peninsula
following the February 13 six-party agreement," the protesters
said in a statement.


The US has stationed tens of thousands of troops in the South
since the Korean war began in June 1950 with an invasion by the
North.


Currently some 29,500 US troops are stationed here to assist
680,000 South Korean forces facing up to North Korea's 1.1
-million-strong military.

