

Germany's coach Joachim Loew on Sunday rung the changes for
Wednesday night's friendly against Denmark by announcing an
inexperienced 16-man squad aimed at blooding some of his rising
stars.


Having opened up a three-point gap at the top of their Euro 2008
qualifying group after a 2-1 win over the Czech Republic in
Prague on Saturday, Loew will rest his first-choice side for
Wednesday's game in Duisburg.


Schalke 04 striker Kevin Kuranyi, whose headed goals either side
of half-time gave Germany the valuable win in Prague, is the most
experienced player in the squad with 37 caps.


Alongside captain and Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack, the
Bayern Munich trio of Philipp Lahm, Lukas Podolski and Bastian
Schweinsteiger, as well as Arsenal goalkeeper Jens Lehmann are
amongst the group who have been sent home.


"It's all about giving other players their opportunity," said
Loew.


"Saturday's game was an important and hard fought win for us. The
team played well as a unit and put together some intelligent
phases of play, but we need to look at other options with a view
to the future."


Having only come back into the national side in last month's 3-1
win over Switzerland, 25-year-old Kuranyi is staking a strong
case for his place in the first-choice side and is hoping to
build on a superb performance.


"Kuranyi has proved that he is in a good vein of form and is
scoring some good goals", said Loew, "it's nice to have some
options up front."


Kuranyi is likely to partner Bayer Leverkusen forward Paul Freier
in attack against the Danes, while the squad's goalkeepers,
uncapped Robert Enke and reserve Timo Hildebrand, get their
chance to stake a claim.


Pacy midfielder Clemens Fritz from Werder Bremen will start
alongside Bremen left-back Christian Schulz and defender VfL
Wolfsburg's Alexander Madlung, who is set to add to his single
cap he won last autumn in the 2-0 win over Georgia.


The friendly is a sensible time for Loew, who has an impressive
record as coach of seven wins and a draw having succeeded Jurgen
Klinsmann last year, to look to the future.


With no more Euro 2008 qualifying fixtures until the visit of
minnows San Marino in June, Denmark, who lost 2-1 to Spain in
Madrid at the weekend, will provide a good work out for his
inexperienced side.

