

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert accused Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas on Sunday of violating various commitments to Israel, ahead
of separate talks between both leaders and visiting US Secretary
of State Condoleezza Rice.


"The Palestinian Authority chairman blatantly violated a series
of commitments given to Israel, especially a commitment not to
form a national unity government before the release of Gilad
Shalit," Olmert told the weekly cabinet meeting.


He was referring to an Israeli soldier seized by Gaza-based
militants nine months ago, whose fate has been one of the main
sticking points in Israeli- Palestinian relations.


"This commitment was given time and again to myself and to world
leaders," Olmert said.


"There is no doubt that a completely different conduct by the PA
is needed in order to create the right atmosphere that would lead
to fruitful negotiations."


A senior Israeli official told AFP that "any diplomatic progress
would depend on radical change in Palestinian positions" over the
release of the soldier, rocket fire from Gaza into Israel and
alleged weapons smuggling.


The statements came ahead of separate meetings between Rice and
both Olmert and Abbas on Sunday during four days of shuttle
diplomacy aimed at restarting the dormant Middle East peace
process.


Olmert said any talks would likely be complicated by the
programme of a Palestinian coalition cabinet formed a week ago
uniting Abbas's secular Fatah with Islamist Hamas, considered a
terror group by Israel and the West.


"The platform of the unity government -- the legimitisation of
armed resistance, the violation of commitments by the president
-- all this won't make contacts any easier in the future," Olmert
said.


The unity cabinet inaugurated on March 17 has stopped short of
agreeing by Western conditions of renouncing violence,
recognising Israel and agreeing to abide by past peace deals.


Prime minister Ismail Haniya has said the new government will
respect past peace accords, but he has also insisted on the
Palestinians' right to resist Israeli occupation.

