

Looted first by troops close to former vice-president Jean-Pierre
Bemba and then by the presidential guard, Lebanese traders in
Kinshasa have been left lamenting their lost goods.


"In clothes alone, they have taken 70,000 dollars! That is
without counting the 657 mobile phones that we had in stock,
worth nearly 100 dollars each," said Mahmoud Hijazue, a disgusted
60-year-old Lebanese merchant.


"I have been in Congo for 20 years. I am sick of it. I do not
know what I am going to do," he said, a cigarette dangling from
his lips.


He hardly dared to raise his red eyes to look at the ugly mass of
empty upturned shelves, bare coat-hangers and broken glass strewn
across the floor of his boutique.


In 1991 and 1993, his shops were also ransacked by soldiers that
the regime of then dictator Mobutu Sese Seko had not paid for
several months.


"You never get used to it. You hope always that it will not
happen," he said.


"What are you still doing in this country? Go home!" he shouts
full of rage at a young Lebanese not long arrived in the area.


At the Forescom roundabout, a few metres further on, practically
all the clothes shops and mobile phone shops were pillaged during
two murderous days of fighting between army soldiers and guards
loyal to Bemba.


"It was first of all the soldiers of Bemba, in their day of
flight on Thursday, who forced the shops to surrender their
clothes. They got rid of their uniforms," explained Kool, a
security guard.


The streets on Saturday were still littered with uniforms.


"On Friday, it was the turn of the army. We were present at these
unhappy scenes, but no one could stop it," Kool continued.


In a shop close to the roundabout, a printer and a glass cabinet
meant for displaying the latest mobile phones was spattered with
blood.


"They broke the glass with their bare hands!" says the owner, 26
-year-old Massoud Fawaz, pointing out the dark stains on the shop
window.


"I saw them. It was the presidential guard. I came yesterday at
about 6:00 pm, because they had warned me that the lights were on
in my shop.


"When I approached, a soldier came towards the door pointing his
weapon at the entry," he added.


But even amid the mess of his shop and the forced safe, he
insists he will not be going back to Lebanon. "I have got the
strength to stay on.


"I lost one delivery, but there will be other ones. These people
here, they must not win."


But for Ahmed Hassan, who sells computers and other electrical
goods, nothing can wipe out the waste. "That is thousands of
dollars that have gone up in smoke," he says. "They reduced years
of investment to nothing in a day.


"The government needs to help us get over this, by cutting taxes
for example, so we can get started again," he says.


"The government?" retorts a colleague. "They are more likely to
ask you to pay so you can stay!"

