

Mauritanians went to the polls Sunday in the second round of the
country's first democratic presidential election since its
independence from France in 1960.


In a country that has known decades of tainted civilian rule or
military dictatorship, the runoff pits former cabinet minister
Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi against longtime opposition politician
Ahmed Ould Daddah. Both spent time in prison during the military
dictatorship.


Some 1.1 million people were eligible to vote in the election
which is the final stage in Mauritania's gradual return to
civilian rule after a military junta ousted long-time dictator
Maaouiya Ould Taya in August 2005.


Voters queuing outside of polling stations before they opened in
some neighborhoods of the capital, an AFP correspondent reported.
The poll closes at 1900 GMT.


Abdallahi, 69, is supported by a coalition of 18 political groups
once loyal to Taya.


Daddah, 65, an ardent critic of Taya, is supported by other
opposition groups. An economist, he was minister of finance when
his half brother Moktar Ould Daddah, the country's first post-
independence leader, was in office.


Abdallahi won 25 percent of the vote in the first round of the
election held on March 11. Daddah secured 21 percent.


On Sunday Abdallahi vowed to respect the outcome of the election.


"Of course I am optimistic, I will certainly respect the results.
If my challenger is elected I will sincerely congratulate him and
wish him all the success," he told journalists after voting in
Nouakchott.


"I hope that the vote takes place in the same calm and peaceful
manner as the first round" of the election, he added.


Rulers in Mauritania have traditionally stormed to office through
military takeovers. They have often tried to boost credibility by
organising elections, but the votes have inevitably been
discredited by fraud allegations.


The poverty-stricken country has seen a dozen coups and armed
takeovers since independence in 1960. It joined the club of
African oil-exporting nations a year ago.


The soldiers behind the 2005 coup pledged to usher in democratic
reforms aimed at a return to civilian rule.


After a constitutional referendum in June, local and
parliamentary polls in November and senatorial elections in
January, the presidential polls mark the final stage of these
reforms.


To guarantee transparency, the junta barred its members from
standing for political office.


The new president will be limited to serving two five-year terms.


Junta leader Ely Ould Mohamed Vall has declined to say what his
plans are in the near future and whenther he plans to eventually
enter politics.

