

Diving queen Guo Jingjing won a record fourth consecutive 3m
springboard world title on Sunday, but China's iron grip was
broken with Russia's Gleb Galperin clinching the men's 10m
platform.


No other diver in the history of the world championships has
managed to win four titles in the same event.


Guo was in a class of her own throughout the preliminary rounds
and in the final to keep China on track for a clean sweep of all
10 diving golds here.


The photogenic 25-year-old reigning Olympic champion scored
381.75 points, opening with a near perfect backwards two-
and-a-half somersault in pike position to signal who was boss
from the outset.


Wu Minxia, Guo's customary strongest rival for the gold medal,
recovered from a poor qualifying session to easily finish second
with 368.80.


Italy's Tania Cagnotto was third with 341.70. Russia's Yuliya
Pakhalina was expected to claim a medal but botched her fourth
dive, a reverse two-and-a-half somersault in pike position, and
finished fifth.


Guo said everything she was doing was focused around preparing
for the Beijing Olympics next year.


"I think the biggest rival (in Beijing) will be myself, but I
really don't want to think about it. The thoughts of being there
simply scares me at this stage," she said.


Guo has already said she will retire after the Olympics, and said
she had always enjoyed competing at the world championships.


"It has always been an important event. I received my first gold
in 2001 and then in 2003, while, I was preparing for Athens.


"In 2005, it proved my capabilities in winning, and this year, it
is again preparing me for Beijing next year."


Wu said while Guo won on Sunday, the Olympic title remained wide
open.


"Actually, everyone who participated in the finals here has the
potential to win. It's just that it might not have been a great
day for them today."


Cagnotto was overwhelmed with getting bronze.


"It means a lot because being third after the Chinese is a big
result," she said.


"The first dive is very important, and I did well so that gave me
a lot of good feelings. I knew a lot of other divers were
fighting to win medals so it became a mental competition."


Guo's gold meant China had won seven out of seven diving titles
here but the drive to snare all 10 came to an end when Galperin
upset Zhou Luxin.


Galperin amassed 554.70 points to Zhou's 519.15 with China's Lin
Yue third with 513.70.


Zhou had comfortably led through the preliminary rounds, looking
odds-on to claim the title, but Galperin was bubbling with
confidence after scoring a perfect 10 for his fifth dive in the
semis earlier.


He took an early grip on the final and Zhou was always playing
catch up. He performed a flawless last dive, scoring 102 points,
in a bid to rein in the Russian but it was to no avail.


Canadian superstar Alexandre Despatie was eighth.


Two more diving events remain -- the women's 3m synchronised and
the men's 10m platform synchronised, both on Monday.

