

The US Central Intelligence Agency has information that Mario
Montoya, the US- backed commander of the Colombian army,
collaborated with right-wing paramilitaries considered by the
United States terrorist groups, The Los Angeles Times reported
Sunday.


General Montoya is a close associate of Colombian President
Alvaro Uribe, whose government is reeling from a growing
political scandal sparked by links between the outlawed militias
and top officials.


The scandal already has implicated the country's former foreign
minister, at least one state governor, a number of lawmakers and
the head of the national police.


The newspaper said the intelligence about Montoya is contained in
a report recently circulated within the CIA.


It says that Montoya and a paramilitary group jointly planned and
conducted a military operation in 2002 to eliminate Marxist
guerrillas from poor areas around Medellin, according to The LA
Times account.


At least 14 people were killed during the operation, and
opponents of Uribe allege that dozens more disappeared in its
aftermath, the report said.


An informant cited in the CIA document reported that in jointly
conducting the operation, the army, police and paramilitaries had
signed documents spelling out their plans, The LA Times said.


The signatories, according to the informant, were Montoya; the
commander of an area police force; and paramilitary leader Fabio
Jaramillo, who was a subordinate of Diego Fernando Murillo
Bejarano, the head of the paramilitaries in the Medellin area.


Murillo, known as Don Berna, took control of the drug trade
around Medellin after the death of fabled drug kingpin Pablo
Escobar, the report said. He is now in a Colombian jail, and US
authorities are seeking his extradition.


The intelligence report, reviewed by The LA Times, includes
information from another Western intelligence service and
indicates that US officials have received similar reports from
other reliable sources.


In addition to his close cooperation with US officials, Montoya
has served as an instructor at the US-sponsored military training
center formerly called the School of the Americas, the paper
said.


The Colombian general was praised by Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman General Peter Pace when he directed the Southern
Command, and Montoya has been organizing a new Colombian
counternarcotics task force with US funds, according to the
report.


Colombia receives from the United States 700 million dollars a
year to help finance its counterterrorism and antidrug campaigns.

