

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana will seek new talks with
Iran's top nuclear negotiator, after the UN Security Council
slapped new UN sanctions on Tehran, a statement said.


"I have been asked by the countries that have been dealing most
closely with Iran to make contact with Dr Ali Larijani in order
to see whether we can find a route to negotiations," Solana said
in the statement released late Saturday.


"The door to negotiations is open; I hope we can together find a
way to go through it," said the EU's top diplomat, who is taking
part in European Union celebrations in Berlin marking the 50th
anniversary of its founding treaty.


Solana was tasked to renew contacts with Larijani by the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany, who
through sanctions and offers of negotiations have been trying to
persuade Iran to suspend uranium enrichment.


The lates UN sanctions, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining at the Security Council, blocks all Iranian arms
exports and freezes the overseas assets of 28 additional
officials and institutions linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic
missile programmes.


"We continue to be gravely concerned about Iran's programme. The
suspicion surrounding it affects negatively the stability in the
Middle East," the statement said.


"Our objective is to change all this. We want to see a successful
Iran fully integrated into the international community. In
particular, the European Union wants a better, closer
relationship with Iran," said Solana.


"This is a country of huge potential and we are natural
partners."


Talks between Iran, three European nations -- Germany, Britain
and France -- Solana, and the International Atomic Energy Agency
collapsed last year over Tehran's refusal to suspend uranium
enrichment.


That impasse led the UN Security Council in December to impose
targeted sanctions, which were broadened in a new vote on
Saturday.


Western nations, led by the United States, fear that the Islamic
republic is trying to develop an atomic weapon under the guise of
a civilian nuclear programme.


Tehran says it is only exercising its right to produce nuclear
energy.

