

Japan's Miki Ando, the newly crowned women's world figure skating
champion, says Asia is coming on strong ahead of the 2010 Winter
Olympics, with a crop of young talent ready to take centre stage.


Asia swept the women's podium at the world championships here on
Saturday, with Japan's teen jumpers Ando and Mao Asada earning
gold and silver, and South Korea's Kim Yu-Nama taking home the
bronze.


The continent has come a long way since 1989, when Japan's Midori
Ito -- struggling to be taken seriously in a sport dominated by
Europe and North America -- jumped her way to Asia's first world
title.


Last year, Japan's Shizuka Arakawa put Asia on the Olympic map,
becoming its first figure skating champion.


"Asians have improved their skills and now they can match
competitors from America and Europe that have a long history. I'm
happy about it," Ando, 19, said after leading Japan's one-two
finish.


Ando, the only woman ever to have landed a quadruple jump in
competition, added: "Two of us have won medals while Japan is a
country with many more great skaters. This has demonstrated our
strength."


She was the fourth Japanese and fifth Asian to win the world
title after Ito, Yuka Sato (1994), China's Lu Chen (1995) and
Arakawa (2004).


Asada landed a rare 3.5-revolution triple axel in her second-
place performance, while her injury-hit archrival Kim fell twice
and settled for the bronze, the first medal of any kind at the
worlds for South Korea.


Defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the United States, 17, had
to settle for fourth place after a few shaky triple jumps, while
another Japanese skater, Yukari Nakano, finished fifth.


European champion Carolina Kostner of Italy fell on an opening
triple flip and under-rotated a combination double to finish
sixth.


"Three of us from Asia are very skillful as you have seen and we
are in the same generation. I hope we can push each other," said
16-year-old Asada, the youngest skater at these championships.
She is 20 days younger than Kim.


Asada and Kim, both former world junior champions, could not
compete in the Turin Olympics and the world championships last
year because they were a few months too young to be eligible.


Both have nevertheless already tasted victory in senior
competitions. Kim stopped Asada from retaining her Grand Prix
final title last December after they had each won a Grand Prix
event.


The 2007 world championships also saw other Asians on the podium.
Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo of China won their third pairs' gold
with compatriots Pang Qing and Tong Jian taking the silver.


Daisuke Takahashi took the silver in the men's contest won by
Frenchman Brian Joubert, the best ever finish for a Japanese man
at either the worlds or the Olympics.


Asked about the Asians' secret for success, Nikolai Morosov, who
has coached both Arakawa and Ando, said: "What the Asians are
doing is great. It has to push European skaters to do even
better."


International Skating Union head Ottavio Cinquanta welcomed the
rise of Asia as a "good response to our hope to have our sport
develop ... in North America, Europe and Asia in order to always
have a competitive situation."


Ito's journey prodded Japan's skating federation to create in
1992 an elite youth scouting system to identify and develop
talent. It has since produced a string of champions including
Arakawa, Ando and Asada.


Arakawa, a graduate of the class of 1992, said she felt "kind of
strange" that it had taken so long for Asia to produce an Olympic
champion.


"I never thought about why we could not in the past," the 25
-year-old, who has turned professional, said ahead of the world
championships.


"But this has proven gold medals are within the grasp of Asians
and I think it is encouraging Asians everywhere to hang in
there."

