

Egypt argued on Sunday that controversial constitutional
amendments being put to a nationwide vote are crucial in
guaranteeing stability in the region.


"Egypt is a focal country. When Egypt is shaken, the entire
region will be shaken," Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said at
a joint press conference in the southern city of Aswan with US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


"So it is Egypt's responsibility not only to maintain internal
stability and social and economic progress within objective
visionary laws. It has further implications and reflections over
the entire region and its policies," Abul Gheit said.


One amendment has come in for particular criticism since it would
allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search their homes,
read their mail and tap their phones without a warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts.


Egypt has been rocked a by a string of deadly bombings against
tourist resorts in the Sinai peninsula over the past three years.


Egypt's parliament has already approved changes to 34 articles of
the constitution which are to be submitted to a popular
referendum on Monday.


Originally scheduled for later next month, the referendum was
abruptly brought forward to March 26, sparking an outcry from
opposition and human rights groups who say this was done to quell
growing dissent.


But Abul Gheit insisted that the change of date was decided to
allow Egyptians to enjoy a set of national holidays at the
beginning of April, including the celebration of prophet
Mohammed's birthday and Coptic easter.


"We believe that it is an ideal timing to offer people an
opportunity to enjoy the coming holidays," he said.


Opposition movements and rights groups have argued that the
amendments are a major setback for pluralism and basic freedoms
in Egypt.


Rice voiced her deep concern over the amendments before leaving
Washington on Friday but adopted a more conciliatory tone at
Sunday's press conference.


"I have made my concerns known as well my hopes for continued
reform here in Egypt," said Rice, who met President Hosni Mubarak
for more than an hour.


"The process of reform is one that is difficult, it is going to
have its ups and downs. We have discussed these things in a
manner that is mutually respectful," she said.

