

South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun called Sunday for expanding
economic links with oil powerhouse Saudi Arabia and other Gulf
countries on the first leg of a regional tour aimed at boosting
ties.


"I will work on initiating talks about a free trade agreement
between Korea and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) as a main
basis for expanding economic cooperation," Roh told the appointed
Saudi Shura (consultative) Council.


Roh, whose country imports a third of its crude oil from Saudi
Arabia, said Seoul would also help develop the human resources
needed by the countries of the region as they try to diversify
their oil-based economies.


Roh, who held talks with Saudi King Abdullah after arriving in
Riyadh Saturday, will go on Monday to Kuwait and then to Qatar,
two other members of the GCC which also groups Bahrain, Oman and
the United Arab Emirates.


He was the third foreign head of state to address the all-male
Saudi advisory council after Chinese President Hu Jintao in April
2006 and France's Jacques Chirac the previous month.


Roh and Abdullah oversaw the signing of cooperation agreements in
the fields of education, information technology and prevention of
double taxation between their two countries.


"We exchanged views about the political situation in the Korean
peninsula and the Middle East region, and we discussed ways of
boosting ties of cooperation between the two countries," the
South Korean leader said in his speech.


Roh, who is accompanied by some 200 South Korean business
leaders, also called on Saudi businessmen to invest in his
country in a joint meeting of South Korean and Saudi businessmen
organised by the Council of Saudi Chambers of Commerce and
Industry.


"This is the right time to upgrade relations," he said.


The council's president Abdul Rahman bin Rashed al-Rashed said
three memoranda of understanding aimed at enhancing trade and
investment links were signed Sunday by the two sides.


But he said Seoul's investments in Saudi Arabia are not
commensurate with the potential of the two countries, especially
since the kingdom is experiencing "a new economic boom" that
offers "promising investment opportunities estimated at more than
624 billion dollars."


Construction contractor Mazen Rajab, one of the Saudi businessmen
attending the meeting, told AFP he expected South Korean firms,
which gained wide experience in Saudi Arabia during the oil boom
of the 1970s, to grab a major share of construction and
infrastructure projects now under way in the country.


South Korea, the world's 11th largest economy, imported 279
million barrels of crude oil and 15.6 million barrels of LPG from
Saudi Arabia last year, making Riyadh its largest energy
supplier, according to official Korean figures.


State giant Saudi Aramco is currently investing 400 million
dollars in S-Oil, a major Korean refinery and oil company.


While Seoul spent 20.55 billion dollars on imports from Saudi
Arabia in 2006, exports to the kingdom totalled 2.98 billion
dollars and 22 construction orders worth 3.6 billion dollars were
received.


Roh is the first South Korean president to visit Saudi Arabia in
27 years.


King Abdullah, who was then crown prince and de facto ruler, went
to Seoul in 1998, and has since ascending the throne in 2005
forged closer ties with major Asian nations.


Saudi Arabia has traditionally had strong relations with Western
countries.

