

Iran reacted angrily Sunday to fresh sanctions imposed by the UN
Security Council over its nuclear program and ignored an offer of
new talks from the major powers.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki described the new sanctions,
which build on a first package adopted in December, as "unlawful"
and "unjustifiable".


Even though the resolution was adopted unanimously by the 15
members of the Security Council, he charged that the sanctions
were the work of a small number of council members, an allusion
to the main Western powers.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The new sanctions come after Iran ignored repeated ultimatums
from the Security Council to suspend uranium enrichment, the
process that produces fuel for nuclear power stations but in
highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an atomic
bomb.


"The unanimous adoption of this resolution reflects the
international community's profound concern over Iran's nuclear
program," said Britain's ambassador to the United Nations, Emyr
Jones Parry.


The vote came amid an escalating diplomatic row between Iran and
Britain over the fate of 15 British marines and sailors, who were
seized in the Shatt al-Arab waterway between Iran and Iraq on
Friday as they conducted "routine" anti- smuggling operations.


Mottaki reiterated Iran's insistence that it has the right to
master the nuclear fuel cycle for peaceful purposes under the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).


He ignored an offer from the major powers of fresh talks to try
and get negotiations back up and running.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he had been tasked
with making contact with Iran's lead nuclear negotiator Ali
Larijani to try to find a basis for a return to the negotiating
table.


"I have been asked by the countries that have been dealing most
closely with Iran to make contact with Dr Ali Larijani in order
to see whether we can find a route to negotiations," he said.


"The door to negotiations is open. I hope we can together find a
way to go through it."


The major powers have said that Iran must first suspend uranium
enrichment activities before substantive talks can take place.
Iran insists any suspension should be a matter for the
negotiations themselves.


"We advise the 5+1 group (Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States plus Germany) to return to the negotiating table as
quickly as possible and without preconditions," the head of the
foreign affairs committee of the Iranian parliament, Allaeddin
Boroujerdi.


But after Saturday's vote, Russia, which has been one of Iran's
leading defenders and is helping it to build a first nuclear
power station in the Gulf port of Bushehr, called on the Tehran
authorities to rethink their position.


"We hope they will thoroughly study the statement of the foreign
ministers which is very positive and invites Iran to engage in
talks to find a mutually acceptable formula for negotiation,"
said Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin.


Washington also voiced support for the offer of talks about
talks.


Solana and other EU diplomats "would be in touch with the Iranian
government in the days and weeks ahead to see if they might
reconsider their obstinate refusal to renegotiate," said US
Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns.


Boroujerdi said Iran would not react to the new sanctions until
after the Persian New Year holiday ends on April 3, when he said
parliament would convene to consider its response.


During the protracted standoff with the West of the past 18
months, Iran has repeatedly used the conservative-dominated
parliament as the conduit for its response.


When the first UN sanctions were adopted last December, MPs
passed a series of measures requiring the government to toughen
its stance on the nuclear issue.


One required it to resume uranium enrichment, another to suspend
implementation of the additional protocol of the NPT, which
provides for more wide-ranging inspections of nuclear facilities,
and a third even demanded a review of Iran's cooperation with the
UN watchdog.


Iran's regional archfoe Israel welcomed the new sanctions
resolution, even though, at the insistence of Muslim Security
Council members Indonesia and Qatar, it included an indirect
reference to the goal of a nuclear-free Middle East, an allusion
to its own undeclared nuclear arsenal.


"There is no doubt that this resolution is a step up in
international efforts to stop Iran's nuclear program," said Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert.

