

Two days of clashes in the Democratic Republic of Congo capital
between the army and opposition forces left more than 120 dead,
aid groups said Sunday as more bodies arrived in hospital
morgues.


The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said there
could be "hundreds of fighters and civilians dead and wounded"
from the fighting Thursday and Friday as former vice president
Jean-Pierre Bemba refused to let his personal guard be integrated
into the army.


"There were dozens of dead bodies left lying at the roadside,
many of them civilians. It was a distressing sight," Max Hadorn,
head of the Red Cross delegation in Kinshasa, said in a
statement.


At least 90 bodies packed the morgue at Kinshasa general hospital
by Sunday morning and more arrived during the day, hospital
sources told AFP.


The Caritas charity said there were 20 bodies at the Kintambo
hospital, six at the Ngaliema clinic and two at St Joseph
hospital.


The charity reported 148 people seriously wounded at the
hospitals following the clashes around Bemba's residence. Bemba,
a fierce opponent of President Jospeh Kabila, has taken refuge in
the South African embassy in Kinshasa, according to diplomatic
sources.


The government laid "treason" charges against Bemba on Frdiay for
keeping a private militia.


About 2,000 troops fought Bemba's 700 fighters in the Gombe
district of the capital on Thursday and Friday.


The government had given a provisional toll of 60 dead on
Saturday.


Kinshasa general hospital reported critical shortages of blood,
dressings, gloves, surgical thread and even food for the wounded.


Many victims were in critical condition because they were trapped
for several hours in the street fighting and could not be
treated.


At the Ngaliema clinic, one woman told AFP how she had to hold
her intestines in her stomach for four hours until someone could
rescue her.


She was hit by a bullet as she rushed to collect her children
from school and the ambulance that came to collect her was
riddled with bullets.


The Congo capital was calm again Sunday after most of Bemba's
fighters had fled or agreed to join government forces.


The United Nations said 107 Bemba fighters have taken refuge at
the UN mission. Many are said to fear they will be killed if they
are handed over to the authorities.


The International Committee of the Red Cross has dispatched a
plane carrying a surgeon and supplies. Some 25 ICRC volunteers
have been sent to help collect bodies off the streets, and more
were expected to arrive Sunday.


The Red Cross was also seeking to provide protection for those
who have been arrested in connection with the violence, it said.


Bemba, who lost the presidential election in October to Joseph
Kabila, had refused to have his vice-presidential bodyguard
integrated into the regular army, arguing that his personal
security could not be guaranteed.


"The government will now have to show it can be responsible,"
said a western diplomat in Kinshasa, speaking on condition of
anonymity. "If you are going to have a rule of law the opposition
must be allowed to exist without being threatened or fearing a
witch-hunt."

