

Malaysia's deputy premier Najib Razak on Sunday expressed
confidence that the country's minority ethnic Chinese population
will support the national coalition in an upcoming by-election.


The by-election in the Machap constituency in western Malacca
state will be held on April 12 following the death of its state
assembly member, Poh Ah Tiam, the Bernama news agency reported.


Najib, who is also the deputy chairman of the Barisan Nasional
(BN) and the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO),
said that past by-elections has proven that the Chinese backed
the coalition.


"There are certain parties trying to portray that the BN no
longer garners good support from Chinese voters. The fact is that
they (Chinese voters) understand very well that their well-being
lies with the BN," Najib said.


The Barisan Nasional coalition that has ruled Malaysia for almost
half a century consists of the dominant UMNO, the Malaysian
Chinese Association (MCA), the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC)
and other smaller parties.


In a recent by-election in the Batu Talam constituency in Pahang
state, the BN candidate had trounced an independent with a
majority win. The opposition camps had boycotted the vote.


In 2004, prime minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi led the coalition
to a landslide victory, winning 198 out of 219 parliamentary
seats during the general elections.


The coalition has won all the by-elections held since then.


However Najib has said that retaining "extraordinary achievement"
in the general elections will not be easy, state Bernama news
agency reported.


Parliamentary opposition leader Lim Kit Siang on Sunday told AFP
that the Machap by-election would be a "good dry-run" for both
the opposition and the national front ahead of an expected early
elections.


"It is a dry run of sorts but the important distinction is that
it is a rural constituency so it is not that difficult for the BN
as they have a considerable influence here," said Lim, who is
chairman of the Democratic Action Party.


"It will be a sort of barometer to determine Chinese support," he
added.


Machap is a predominantly Chinese constituency, accounting for
45.7 percent of the population, with a 39.5 percent Malay
electorate, the Star daily said on Sunday.

