

Berlin feted 50 years of European unity on the dancefloor as
visitors from Paris, Prague and Milan partied the night away at
clubs that survived the Cold War.


As leaders grappled with the business of forging a path through
the European Union's institutional crisis, younger Europeans had
less weighty issues on their minds.


Many headed for the Claerchens Ballhaus in the former East Berlin
that still looks like something out of the communist era, but on
Saturday night the theme was decidedly Italian.


It was one of 35 clubs in the German capital which each honoured
a European nation but to which party-goers could gain access with
a single pass.


"I've lived in Berlin for 15 years and I feel at home here," said
Nicolas, a 39 -year-old Frenchman.


"That's what Europe is for me."


He is a regular at the Ballhaus, but his visiting Italian friends
were new to Berlin's restless nightlife, and its well-preserved
decor that recalls days when Germany was divided and the European
Union was still a small club of nations.


"This is incredible, I've never seen this sort of thing in Milan.
Everyone's mixed together," Giancarlo, 33, said as Italian band
Ela Luna played mellow jazz.


Elsewhere in the city, museums opened to night-time visitors and
at the Brandenburg Gate stalls sold European cuisine in the
biggest popular party Berlin has seen since the football World
Cup last summer.


The festivities were due to resume at the Gate on Sunday with a
rock concert led by veteran British singer Joe Cocker after
European leaders endorsed a declaration to mark a half century of
the Treaty of Rome, its founding document.


The political mood in the 27-member bloc has been sombre as it
struggles to break a deadlock over its draft constitution, which
was rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005, and to win back
popular support.


But Micha, a young Czech who was dancing at the Roter Salon where
the communist elite once partied, had no doubts about the merits
of the European Union.


"Saying no to Europe is like saying no to a pretty woman," he
said, as Austrian deejays spinned electronic sounds.


Other, older regulars at Berlin's clubs worried that the EU might
one day spell the end of the distinct cultural differences that
mark Europe.


In the Spiegelsaal, a gothic club with a sky-high ceiling and
huge chandeliers, the Slovakian trio Pacora Trio played their
melancholic brand of "bohemian Jazz" while alcohol flowed easily.


"I find it so touching when I look at all our different
nationalities. But sometimes I am scared that we will lose some
of this because of the EU," said Harald, a 68-year-old German who
had lived in the communist East before the Berlin Wall fell.


"I want our children to keep our traditions alive."

