

Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday called Iran's seizure of 15
British naval personnel "unjustified and wrong" as international
pressure grew on Iran over the new diplomatic crisis.


British authorities said they did not know where the 15 are being
held now but Iran said the 14 men and one woman are all well.


"The quicker it is resolved, the easier it is for all. But it is
quite unjustified and wrong," Blair told reporters on the
sidelines of EU 50th anniversary celebrations in Berlin.


"They were in Iraqi water, it is not true that they went into
Iranian territorial waters," Blair said in his first public
comments on detentions on Friday.


The 15 -- all based on the British warship HMS Cornwall -- were
seized on the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the 15 were conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations. Iran said Saturday the group has admitted to
illegally entering Iranian waters. The Iranian action has added
to tensions caused by new sanctions ordered over Iran's nuclear
programme.


Blair said he hoped the solution would come in "an as easy and
diplomatic way as possible," adding: "I hope the Iranian
government understands how fundamental an issue this is for us."


French President Jacques Chirac said that Britain had the
"complete solidarity" of all EU leaders over the missing sailors.


"It seems clear that the soldiers were not in the Iranian zone at
the time (of their capture)," Chirac told reporters in Berlin.


The German presidency of the EU issued a statement on Saturday
calling for the immediate release of the Britons.


Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, met senior
officials at the Iranian foreign ministry on Sunday to seek the
freedom of the group but got no immediate response, a Foreign
Office spokesman in London told AFP.


Lord David Triesman, a junior Foreign Office minister, said: "We
don't know where they are. We wish we did. We are asking whether
they are being moved around inside Iran."


Iran's Foreign Ministry did not say where the Britons are being
held. But it released a statement saying: "The British sailors
are in good health and the procedure for studying their case
continues," despite the current Iranian New Year holidays.


Britain's Sunday Times newspaper quoted an Iraqi military officer
as saying the sailors were not in Iraqi waters when they were
detained.


"We were informed by Iraqi fishermen that there were British
gunboats in an area that is out of Iraqi control", said Brigadier
General Hakim Jassim, who the paper said was "in nominal charge
of territorial waters".


"We don't know why they were there," the officer said in the
southern Iraqi port city of Basra.


But in an interview with Sky News television, Triesman again
denied that the group had deliberately entered Iranian territory.
"There's no reason for them to do so."


Iran's ambassador to London has twice been summoned to the
Foreign Office. On Friday he met a senior civil servant and
Triesman on Saturday.


Triesman said Britain wanted the Iranians to reassure the group's
families that they were in good health and unharmed.


The group's seizure comes three years after eight British Royal
Navy personnel training their Iraqi counterparts on the same
stretch of waterway were detained for three days by Iran.


They were blindfolded, paraded on Iranian television and
apologised for their actions -- although Britain denied illegal
encroachment -- before being released.


Triesman said that while negotiations were "very difficult and
delicate", he was confident that there would be a "good outcome"
to the latest incident.


But it comes amid a much different political situation, with
Britain and Western governments at loggerheads with Iran over its
disputed nuclear programme.


The United Nations Security Council on Saturday unanimously voted
to impose new sanctions on Iran over its refusal to abandon
uranium enrichment.


British newspapers have expressed fears the sailors might be used
as a bargaining chip in the mounting war of words over the
nuclear crisis.

