

French wonder swimmer Laure Manaudou blitzed her rivals in an
astonishing front- running performance to defend her 400-metre
freestyle world title in near world record time here Sunday.


The 20-year-old went out hard and was under her world record pace
up until the 300m mark before retaining her title in a new
championship record time of four minutes 02.61 seconds.


The world record holder swam the second fastest time ever in the
event to burn off Poland's Otylia Jedrzejczak (4:04.23) by
1.62sec with Japan's Ai Shibata (4:05.19) taking the bronze.


Manaudou has swept aside her rivals with amazing times after
lowering American Janet Evans' 1988 world record last year and
bettering it again at last August's European championships in
Budapest with 4:02.13.


She has now swum the four fastest 400m times in history and she
has scheduled eight events at this week's world championships.


"It's not over it's just the start," Manaudou said. "No-one can
afford to lose momentum after one positive result. Goals aren't
short term and I want to maintain this performance."


The French superstar, who smashed the longest-standing world
championship 1978 record time of Australian Tracey Wickham in the
morning heats, gave no one a chance and was around 0.4secs under
world record pace to lead by at least two body lengths before
tiring slightly over the last 100m of the final.


"I wanted to exceed my own expectations so I prepared for this
competition intensely, so that (the lead) came from that
preparation," she said.


"I swam hard and knew that it would come down to a good set-up at
the beginning that needed to continue right to the last lap."


Manaudou is the reigning Olympic Games, world and European
champion in the 400m freestyle and even withdrew from the 200m
individual medley to focus on this event.


She is the first French swimmer to win multiple world titles.


"I was only thinking about swimming good. If I would have swum
good and only come eighth place, I (still) would have been happy.
Now I have the silver and I am happy," Jedrzejczak said.


American Katie Hoff, who was blown away in fourth place by over
three seconds, said she was staggered by Manaudou's speed.


"It's amazing how she takes it out so hard and so fast. I think
it's a great strategy," Hoff said. "But my tactic is to build in
the first 200 (metres) and hit it hard in the back end."

