

Pakistani police detained dozens of people as political parties
planned new protests over President Pervez Musharraf's sacking of
the nation's top judge, opposition leaders said Sunday.


Police conducted raids overnight in several cities in central
Punjab province and detained dozens of workers and officials
within the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) of former premier
Benazir Bhutto, the party said.


PPP Punjab president Shah Mahmud Qureshi said about 100 people
were taken from their homes in Rawalpindi and Islamabad, while
about 50 were detained in Faisalabad and a dozen in Lahore.


"We condemn the arrests and we demand their immediate release,"
he told AFP, warning that the police crackdown could worsen an
already volatile atmosphere.


The call for further demonstrations to be held Monday was made
after a meeting between Bhutto and another former prime minister,
Nawaz Sharif, in London this week.


Police did not disclose the exact number of people they had
detained.


However a senior government official said the authorities had a
list of 70 to 75 people who were expected to create "trouble"
during Monday's planned protest.


"We have detained such people to maintain peace," the official
told AFP on condition of anonymity. "We are taking necessary
steps to maintain public tranquility."


Musharraf suspended chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on
March 9 over accusations of misconduct and misuse of authority,
triggering nationwide protests by lawyers who labelled the move
an attack on judicial independence.


Lawyers demanding the reinstatement of Chaudhry boycotted courts
and clashed with police in Lahore, Islamabad and elsewhere in the
country last week.


Several religious and secular parties have also vowed to join
anti-Musharraf rallies on Monday.


Qureshi said opposition parties would "express solidarity with
the lawyers' community".


Lawyers say they will boycott courts across the country on April
3, when Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council is to hold its next
hearing into allegations of misconduct and abuse of office
against Chaudhry.


Eight judges and a deputy attorney general have already resigned
in protest.


Chaudhry denies the charges, including accusations that he
unfairly gained promotions for his son and insisted on the use of
cars and aircraft to which he was not entitled.

