

Hundreds of families took advantage Sunday of a rare period of
calm to flee the Somali capital after deadly clashes last week
which claimed 24 lives.


Most families packed their belongings onto minibuses and headed
southwest to surrounding villages, fearing that fighting between
Ethiopia-backed government troops and Islamist insurgents could
resume at any time.


Those who could not find shelter made do with laying out mats
under trees on the sand. "We have nothing left, not even sheets
or a blanket," cried one desperate woman. "The fighting has to
stop."


Back in Mogadishu, public transport and other traffic was running
normally again while civilians came timidly onto streets still
littered with the debris of the fierce fighting.


Military vehicles armed with canons and heavy machineguns criss-
crossed the arteries of the capital in the wake of the street
battles last Wednesday through Friday.


At the K4 junction, a notoriously volatile but strategic area of
southern Mogadishu, a Ugandan contingent of African Union
peacekeepers, deployed to help government troops regain control,
held their positions, some on top of buildings.


Further on, groups of soldiers from Somalia's transitional
government manned their checkpoints. They also conducted patrols
in government-controlled areas but would not venture into
southern zones held by the Islamist rebels.


One witness told AFP that several gatherings of rebels hostile to
the transitional government and its Ethopian army backers had
been held in southern areas on Sunday morning.


The Ugandans are the first contingent of about 8,000 planned to
be deployed to help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed extend his
tenuous control across the nation.


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has been wracked by
factional bloodletting since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed
Siad Barre cleared the way for a deadly power struggle that has
scuppered more than 14 peacemaking attempts.


At least 24 people died this week and hundreds more were wounded
in three days of clashes, despite a brief truce Friday. On
Wednesday, angry residents dragged and burned soldiers in the
Mogadishu streets, a grisly reminder of the fate that befell US
special forces in the 1990s.


The government has vowed to keep on fighting until the insurgents
are defeated who in turn have said they will pursue their
attacks.


Dozens of people have died since January when Ethiopian-Somali
troops ousted an Islamist movement from south and central
Somalia, prompting a deadly guerrilla warfare.

