

Hundreds of opposition activists staged a rally amid heavy
security in the Belarus capital Sunday against President
Alexander Lukashenko and to mark a year since unprecedented
protests.


Hundreds of police, special forces officers and paratroopers
closed off access to Oktyabrskaya Square in central Minsk, where
activists held a four-day rally after authoritarian Lukashenko's
controversial re-election in 2006.


Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus since 1994 and is dubbed
"Europe's last dictator" in some Western capitals, allows no
criticism in the state-controlled media and has imposed severe
restrictions on opposition demonstrations.


An AFP reporter saw around a dozen buses for security forces and
several prison vans parked in a corner of the square, as well as
a column of military personnel vehicles moving towards the
centre.


Protesters, grouped on a side street, told AFP they would try to
enter the vast square, even though they have been allotted a
smaller square on the city outskirts for their rally by the
authorities.


The opposition has also accused Belarussian authorities of making
a series of pre-emptive arrests over the past few days, with
nearly 50 activists put behind bars in a bid to cripple Sunday's
demonstration.


Vyacheslav Sivchik, an organiser of last year's demonstration, in
which several hundred protesters set up a tent camp on
Oktyabrskaya Square before being arrested en masse, was seized by
police on Saturday.


Police officials could not be contacted to confirm these reports.


The US government voiced concern on Friday about the arrests,
calling on Belarus to stop "harassing" the opposition in this
isolated former Soviet state.


"The United States is deeply concerned about ongoing intimidation
by the authorities... in advance of a planned peaceful
demonstration in Minsk on March 25," State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack said in a statement.


"We urge the government of Belarus to allow its citizens to
exercise their right to assemble peacefully and express their
views without harassment or interference," McCormack said.


Belarussian authorities have organised open-air concerts on
Sunday in an apparent attempt to undermine the protests, as part
of celebrations for the anniversary of the country's fragile
independence, declared in 1918.


Sunday's demonstration is seen by analysts as a test of the
opposition's ability to sustain its momentum and overcome
internal divisions and rivalries.


Belarussian opposition leader Alexander Milinkevich was expected
to address the rally. Another Lukashenko opponent, Alexander
Kozulin, is serving a five- and-a-half year prison sentence for
organising a protest last year.

