

US Vice President Dick Cheney has assured political allies that
an early withdrawal of US forces from Iraq would not be allowed,
despite efforts by Congress to impose a deadline on US combat
operations there.


The comments late Saturday followed a historic vote Friday in the
House of Representatives, which called for a pullout of US combat
troops from Iraq by August 31, 2008 -- regardless of whether
Iraqi security forces are ready to take over from them.


President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the measure. But the
threat has called into question the future of a 124-billion-
dollar emergency funding bill, to which it is attached.


Lacking line-item veto power, Bush can reject bills only in their
entirety.


In light of this circumstance, the president acknowledged earlier
Saturday that if the bill that finances the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan is not passed by April 15, the military "will face
significant disruptions."


Cheney for his part used his appearance before the Republican
Jewish Coalition in Manalaplan, Florida, to reassure allies that
the current political struggle will not result in a precipitous
US withdrawal from Iraq.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that has gone into fighting the global war on terror, and
result in chaos and mounting danger," the vice president
declared. "And for the sake of our own security, we will not
stand by and let it happen."


He did not explain what steps the administration could take if
the supplemental bill dies in partisan bickering. But he
expressed confidence in the final outcome, stating "We will
complete the mission, and we will prevail."


Quoting extensively from Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, the
vice president reiterated his conviction that an US early
withdrawal from Iraq would be "a complete validation of the Al-
Qaeda strategy."


And he painted a dire picture of the Muslim world descending into
chaos and tyranny, if radical Islamists were allowed to prevail.


"Having tasted victory in Iraq, jihadists would look for new
missions," he predicted. "Many would head for Afghanistan and
fight alongside the Taliban. Others would set out for capitals
across the Middle East, spreading more sorrow and discord as they
eliminate dissenters and work to undermine moderate governments."


The speech marked a ratcheting up of a tense standoff between the
White House and Democratic-controlled Congress, which is under
heavy pressure from constituents to find a way to wrap up the war
that most Americans now believe was a mistake.


But the Democrats made clear they have no intention of backing
down. In a radio address Saturday, Representative Paul Hodes said
the era of blank checks issued by Congress to the president was
over and urged Bush to respond "by listening to the American
people."


The angry debate added a new wrinkle Sunday, when a leading US
foreign policy expert, former national security adviser Zbigniew
Brzezinski, delivered a stinging rebuke to the whole concept of
the war on terror, arguing it was promoting "a culture of fear"
that was being exploited for political and financial gain.


"The sense of a pervasive but otherwise imprecise danger was thus
channeled in a politically expedient direction by the mobilizing
appeal of being 'at war'," he wrote in The Washington Post.


The fear, Brzezinski argued, was also being exploited by so-
called "terror entrepreneurs."


He reminded that in 2003, Congress identified 160 sites as
potential terrorism targets that should be fortified at the
government's expense.


With lobbyists weighing in, Brzezinski noted, by the end of that
year the list had grown to 1,849, by the end of 2004 -- to
28,360, and by 2005 -- to 77,769.


Now, he said, the database lists some 300,000 possible targets,
which include not only the Sears Tower in Chicago, but also the
Illinois Apple and Pork Festival.

