

Most Spaniards are critical of the conservative opposition's
systematic accusations that the government is too soft on Basque
separatists, according to a poll published Sunday.


Some 66.9 percent of those questioned said they opposed the
Popular Party's strategy to base a "large portion of its
opposition on rejecting the anti-terror policies" of the
Socialist government, according to the poll published in the El
Pais daily.


Of the 1,000 people polled by Intitut Opina, 64.7 percent also
said they were against the many Popular Party demonstrations
against Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero's government.


Some 60.4 percent meanwhile said they did not believe the
opposition's claim that the Basque separatist movement was
putting Spanish unity at risk.


According to the poll, conducted by telephone on March 21 and 22,
48.4 percent think Zapatero's government should relaunch its
dialogue with the Basque separatist group ETA despite a December
bombing at Madrid's international airport in which two people
were killed.


Nearly 40 percent said they were opposed to such a move.


The airport attack led Zapatero to break off all contact with the
militants, although ETA claimed at the time that it had not
breached the ceasefire announced in March 2006, claiming the bomb
had not been intended to kill.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region.


The Popular Party and its chief Mariano Rajoy have made the
Basque question its main platform of attack against the
government in the run-up to the May 27 regional and local
elections.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA and to the legitimisation of the
banned Basque political party Batasuna, the Popular Party has
repeatedly warned that Spanish unity is at risk.


The government has said Batasuna, which the EU and the US State
Department consider a terrorist organisation along with ETA, must
clearly renounce violence before its participation in the
elections could be considered.


On March 10, the rightwing opposition gathered several hundreds
of thousands of demonstrators in Madrid to protest the
government's controversial decision to allow a Basque separatist
jailed for 25 murders to finish his sentence at home.


According to Sunday's poll, the Spanish Socialist Party remained
in the lead ahead of the May elections, with the support of 42
percent of those polled, slightly lower than the 45 percent it
garnered in a poll last July.


The Popular Party meanwhile received the support of 38.5 percent
of those questioned, just down from 39 percent in the July poll.

