

The British attorney general announced Sunday nine million pounds
(18 million dollars) in funding for efforts to put Afghan drug
traffickers behind bars, saying 90 percent of heroin in Britain
was from Afghanistan.


Lord Goldsmith toured a compound of Afghanistan's criminal
justice task force where he met officials involved in prosecuting
drug traffickers and saw stashes of heroin and opium seized by
authorities.


"Drugs are one of the gravest threats to the long-term security,
development and government of Afghanistan," the attorney general
told reporters.


Afghanistan is the world's top producer of opium, the raw
ingredient of heroin.


The government, which says drugs are funding the Taliban-led
insurgency, is working with several countries to try to end the
trade by rounding up those involved and persuading farmers to
grow other less lucrative crops.


"Ninety percent of the heroin on the streets of my country comes
from this country. We are committed to helping the government of
Afghanistan deal with this evil trade," he said.


The Afghan government has been criticised for not going after
high-ranking officials said to have a hand in the three-billion-
dollars-a-year trade, with some reports alleging a brother of
President Hamid Karzai is involved.


Afghan Attorney General Abdul Jabar Sabet said he had not been
given any report of involvement of the president's brother and
such talk was "part of an anti- Karzai campaign."


The counter-narcotics task force had investigated more than 800
cases since it became operational in May 2005, resulting in the
conviction of 351 people, officials said.


Those convicted included a general whose name could not yet be
released pending the wrapping up of a judicial process, they
said.


Despite international efforts costing millions of dollars,
Afghanistan's opium cultivation rose 59 percent last year to a
record 165,000 hectares (407,550 acres).


Goldsmith said production was coming down in areas in the
relatively stable north, where the country's strategy for
tackling drugs production could be implemented.


"Where it is more difficult for the strategy to operate,
particularly in the south because of the security situation, it
would be more difficult to see the benefit immediately," he said.


Britain is the second-largest donor to post-Taliban Afghanistan
after the United States, having sent 500 million pounds on
reconstruction and development here in the past five years.

