

France's Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal was
accused on Sunday of playing into the hands of the far-right
after calling for her supporters to reclaim the national anthem
and flag from French nationalists.


Four of Royal's recent rallies have wrapped up with loudspeakers
blasting out the national anthem, "La Marseillaise" -- more often
associated in French politics with Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-
immigration National Front party.


On Friday, she told reporters during a trip to the French Riviera
-- long a bastion of the far-right -- that, if elected, she would
"ensure that the French know the words to La Marseillaise, and
that every family owns a national flag" to "fly from their window
on national holidays."


"We need to reconquer the symbols of the nation" instead of
"abandoning the national anthem to the extreme right," she said.
"And at the same time learn to see these symbols in a new way."


Observers saw the new twist in Royal's campaign as a response to
a recent pledge by the right-wing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy to
set up a ministry of immigration and national identity, seen as a
ploy to appeal to the far-right.


But leaders of the far-left rounded on her statements.


Olivier Besancenot, presidential candidate for the Revolutionary
Communist League said he was "shocked", appealing to the left to
"regain its reason".


"This is not about taboos, but we've got Nicolas Sarkozy chasing
after Le Pen. If the Left starts chasing after Nicolas Sarkozy,
I'll let you guess who will be the winner. Probably Jean-Marie Le
Pen."


The anti-capitalist activist Jose Bove accused Royal of trying to
better Sarkozy on the question of national identity, and of
planning to "Americanise our country by hanging a French flag
from every window".


The Communist Party candidate Marie-George Buffet also said the
flag and anthem were "two symbols of the Republic that belong to
the people -- not scraps to be fought over."


Speaking to reporters in the northern city of Lille on Sunday,
Royal defended her position.


"National identity is first of all about a nation that gives
everyone the right to live that identity, asking people not where
they come from but how they want to live together," she said.


"It is about a nation that gives life to the values of the
Republic, that ensures that the Republic keeps its promise to
each child born on French soil."


The Socialist leader in parliament, Jean-Marc Ayrault, opposed
Royal's "patriotism of the heart" to Sarkozy's "patriotism of
fear" that "orders people to love France or leave it," in an
interview with the Journal du Dimanche.


On Saturday, organisers played the French anthem at a meeting
Royal attended in Villeurbanne, a rough suburb of the eastern
city of Lyon.


It was a potent symbol in a room packed with residents of the
suburbs, many of whom are the French-born children and
grandchildren of African immigrants and who often complain of
being treated like second-rate citizens.


Sarkozy openly admits that he wants to draw far-right voters back
to the mainstream, but insists his concept of "national identity"
is about the defence of core French values, not race or origin.


Members of Sarkozy's ruling Union for a Popular Movement also
held a rally in the Paris suburbs Saturday to explain his
position.


With four weeks to go until the April 22 first round of the
election, Sarkozy currently leads the race, ahead of Royal and
the centrist Francois Bayrou. Le Pen is in fourth place, far
ahead of the eight remaining candidates.

