

Irish rocker and Live Aid founder Bob Geldof on Sunday urged EU
leaders to toughen sanctions against the Sudanese government in a
bid to stop the civil war in Darfur.


The call to slap a travel embargo and an asset freeze on Sudanese
leaders came as EU leaders gathered in Berlin to mark the 50th
anniversary of the bloc's founding treaty.


"You should refuse to let them travel to Europe for their dental
and hair appointments, you should stop them buying our luxury
goods and freeze all assets of the Sudanese government.


"This can be done by 7:00 pm tonight," Geldof told a press
conference.


He said the steps should be "followed within weeks by tougher
sanctions, a no- fly zone over Darfur and the deployment of a
United Nations force to impose peace."


The United Nations estimates that 200,000 people have been killed
and two million displaced since February 2003 when rebels from
minority tribes in the vast western province took up arms against
the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum.


An under-funded and ill-equipped African Union force of 7,000 men
has been unable to halt the violence.


Geldof called the conflict a genocide and said it was shameful
that the European Union was not doing more to stop the killing,
pointing out that the bloc was born in response to World War II,
which saw the murder of six million Jews.


"It is a spurious idea that we have lots to celebrate, the sense
of betrayal is much greater. The EU arose out of genocide and we
have failed to honour that shared value," he said.


On Saturday, 10 leading European writers, including Nobel
literature laureates Harold Pinter and Guenter Grass, called on
EU leaders in an open letter to interrupt the anniversary
celebrations and act to stop the bloodshed in Darfur.


Geldof said he penned the declaration, but it was reworked by
Irish poet Seamus Heaney and British playwright Tom Stoppard.


"I wrote it three days ago but I was severely edited," he told
AFP.


He said he addressed the call to Germany as it currently holds
both the presidencies of the EU and the Group of Eight major
industrialised nations.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said she favoured
tougher EU sanctions against Khartoum.


"I want to state frankly that we have to consider stronger
sanctions," she told her EU counterparts.


The European Union imposed an arms embargo on Khartoum in January
2004.

