

US President George W. Bush and congressional Democrats are
leaping on every chance they get to escalate their venomous feud,
and both sides have sound political reasons to keep it raging.


Gone are the choreographed shows of courtesy and promises to work
across the aisle swapped by Bush and the likes of House of
Representatives speaker Nancy Pelosi after Democrats grabbed
control of Congress last year.


Now, Democrats eager to wield their new power are savaging Bush
over Iraq, and a standoff has erupted over the firing of eight
federal prosecutors by the Justice Department for what critics
say are political ends.


Bush has refused to cast off under-fire Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales over the drama and is vowing to fight Democrats who have
authorized subpoenas meant to compel top White House aides to
testify under oath.


The president accuses Democrats of indulging in "political
theater" and undermining US troops in their estrangement over
Iraq, and of launching a "partisan fishing expedition" on the
prosecutors issue. His spokesman Tony Snow says Democrats want a
"show-trial."


For the Democrats, presidential candidate Senator Joseph Biden
has recently accused Bush of pursuing a "God-awful" strategy in
Iraq warning: "Mr. President, you're leading us off a cliff.
Stop!"


Outspoken Senator Chuck Schumer meanwhile complains the White
House is "thumbing its nose at the American people and at the
rule of law" over the prosecutor storm.


Twice in the last week, Bush had deliberately raised the stakes
in his showdown with the Democrats, with televised White House
statements backing Gonzales and castigating Democrats over Iraq.


With 21 months left in the White House and approval ratings
averaging in the low 30 percent range, Bush has no option but to
stand and fight, said Republican pollster and consultant David
Johnson.


"He needs this confrontation ... because he has lost his
Republican base. The floor has fallen out from under him,"
Johnson said, citing his recent polling of core Republicans
voters.


"He needs to throw down the gauntlet on Iraq, on the subpoenas
and anything he can find to hopefully shore up these Republican
numbers."


"If he doesn't fight, he is completely finished as a relevant
force within the Republican party."


For the Democrats, there are also sound political reasons to poke
Bush, having ridden to control of both the House of
Representatives and the Senate last November on a wave of public
anger over the unpopular war.


Friday's vote by the House to establish a timetable to withdraw
troops from Iraq by August 2008, in defiance of Bush's veto
threat, placed Democrats squarely in line with a majority of US
public opinion.


The vote "is consistent with the wishes of the American public,
58 percent of whom want US troops withdrawn within one year,"
said Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at
the Cato Institute.


Many Democrats believe they were sent to Congress to end the Iraq
war, so confronting Bush over his plan to surge more than 21,500
extra US troops into the war-wracked country makes sense.


With congressional polls looming in November 2008, they may also
be hoping shore up their base support by getting into public
spats with the president.


Grass-roots Democrats are fiercely opposed to the Iraq war, and
many representatives came under fierce pressure at home from
voters who believe that their tactics have been more symbolic
than effective.


"What they are doing right now, is they are shoring up their
base, a lot of their base is quite angry with them on the Iraq
war issue," said Johnson, warning that Republicans would look to
portray their opponents as pandering to radical left, in a bid to
recapture independents who voted Democratic last time.

