

Hong Kong's aviation sector is set for a strong 2007 as the
southern Chinese city steps up a gear to remain a leading
regional air hub, the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation said
Sunday.


The Sydney-based consultancy said in a new report that the city
was eventually expected to privatise Hong Kong International
Airport.


"Building the value of the Hong Kong hub will become a primary
focus for the (Hong Kong) government, leading to the eventual
privatisation of the airport," said executive chairman Peter
Harbison.


The report said Airport Authority Hong Kong (AAHK) was expected
to offer more specialised facilities to serve the various groups
of passengers and airlines.


The airport operator is also likely to step up investment in
neighbouring Chinese cities where aviation demand is growing
rapidly as a result of China's phenomenal economic growth in
recent years, it said.


Harbison meanwhile said Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific's
tie-up with China's national airline Air China has the potential
to allow the two outfits to become the biggest "combined carrier"
by 2017.


"The Cathay-Air China relationship could become the envy of all
Asian airlines," the report said.


"Most significant of all, Cathay has gained in Air China a
partner with which it can potentially form the world's biggest
combined carrier within ten years.


"Cathay-Air China has the pedigree and the hallmarks to battle it
out on the world stage over the long term, with a mix of private
equity (via the Swire linkage) and government support (via
Beijing) that few carriers enjoy."


Harbison also said Oasis, the long-haul budget carrier launched
at the end of October last year, could also be a "surprise
packet" this year.


"Its low fares and quality service should garner support in the
market and provide another option for budget travellers seeking
to link the established LCC (low cost carriers) networks of Asia
and Europe and North America," he said.


The airline launched its first service to London's Gatwick
Airport at the end of October.

