

Michael Phelps versus Pieter van den Hoogenband. It's a showdown
to thrill the swimming connoisseur and they will get their chance
to test each other on Monday.


The pair face off in the heats and semi-finals of the 200-metres
freestyle.


They have only had one meeting and Hoogie beat the American home
in the 200m final at the 2004 Athens Olympics, although both were
minor medallists behind the now retired Australian Ian Thorpe.


Phelps is on the trail of a monumental eight gold at the 12th
world championships, and he faces his first major obstacle with
van den Hoogenband, one of only two swimmers, along with Thorpe,
to go under 1m45sec over 200m freestyle.


His coach Bob Bowman said he would be thrilled if Phelps could
swim around 1:44 here, and Phelps is eager to get into the pool
with the Dutchman, who vanquished Thorpe for the 200m gold at the
2000 Sydney Olympics.


"I haven't raced against Hoogie since Athens and to get in the
water and race against him is the most exciting part for me,"
Phelps said.


"It's my first individual event here and I want to get the ball
rolling against him. He's a very strong talented swimmer."


Hoogie's eyes lit up when he spoke of his impending clash with
Phelps.


"I think he (Phelps) is capable of swimming under 1:45 and so far
only two people on this planet have done that and I'm one of
them," he said.


"He's in good shape, breaking world records in the butterfly so
I'm really looking forward to racing good swimmers, and Michael
Phelps is one of them."


They have the best times in the events this year.


Another great tussle looks in prospect in the men's 100m
breaststroke Monday where American record holder Brendan Hansen
is under challenge from Japanese rival Kosuke Kitajima.


Kitajima got the early psychological edge when he went under one
minute in Sunday's heats with Hansen relegated to third fastest
at 1:00.34.


Kitajima, armed with his 59.96sec time, believes he has the
momentum going into the business end of the event.


"I am glad because I could swim under one minute. I couldn't do
it for a long time. Now, I have the confidence to win," Kitajima
said. "I have the momentum now."


Hansen took the world mark off Kitajima at the 2003 Barcelona
world championships and shaved the record again last year to
59.13sec.


"We have a pretty healthy rivalry," Hansen said of Kitajima. "We
make each other swim fast but we always shake hands at the end of
the race. He brings out the best in me and I appreciate that."


Americans Rachel Komisarz and Natalie Coghlin hold the whip hand
in the women's 100m butterfly although Australian Jessicah
Schipper is well in contention with the second-fastest swim of
all-time.


Dutchwoman Inge De Bruijn, who announced her retirement shortly
before the world championships, holds the world record at
56.61sec and the three-way rivalry push puts her time under
pressure in Monday's final.


American Katie Hoff and Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry, who both went
1-2 in this event at the last world titles in Montreal, are
expected to fight out the 200m individual medley final.


European champion Laure Manoudou of France pulled out of the
event to concentrate on the 400m freestyle in her packed schedule
of eight events in Melbourne.


American Ian Crocker and South African defending champion Roland
Schoeman are expected to fight for the 50m butterfly title.

