

Britain should formally apologise for its role in the slave
trade, a senior Anglican cleric said in an interview broadcast
Sunday, 200 years to the day since the practice was banned.


The Church of England's first black archbishop, Archbishop of
York John Sentamu, told the BBC that although Blair had recently
called the slave trade "entirely unacceptable," he should go
further and issue a full apology.


His comments came ahead of a ceremony in Ghana, where Britain's
first black female cabinet minister, Baroness Valerie Amos, was
to say that slavery was "one of the most shameful and
uncomfortable chapters in British history."


Blair, in Berlin for the European Union's 50th anniversary
celebrations, was due to address the event in Ghana by video
link.


The Church of England itself had slaves on plantations in the
Caribbean and made a formal apology last year.


Asked in the interview whether the British government should do
the same, Uganda-born Sentamu, who is the Church of England's
second most senior cleric, said: "Yes, I think this should
happen.


"Britain is our community and this community was involved in a
very, very terrible trade.


"Africa as a community was involved in a very terrible trade, the
Church as a community was involved in a terrible trade. It is
really important that we own up to what was collectively done."


He added: "This is really the moment in which you say, 'By the
way, I think our forebearers did a terrible, terrible thing'. I
think he (Blair) should go a bit further."


Blair has faced repeated calls to make a full apology in the run-
up to the anniversary of the ban on the trade in black slaves
throughout the British empire, which was marked on Saturday in
London with a commemorative march.


Earlier this month, Blair told a joint news conference with the
visiting Ghanaian President John Kufuor: "I have said we're sorry
(for the slave trade) and I say it again now.


"I think for us the most important thing, though, is obviously to
remember what happened in the past and to condemn it and to say
why it was so entirely unacceptable."


In November, Blair expressed "deep sorrow" over slavery but
stopped short of a full apology, while Northern Ireland and Welsh
Secretary Peter Hain has gone a step further by offering a full
apology for the roles the provinces played.

