

Russia's energy minister Friday poured scorn on suggestions that
gas exporters would announce a "gas OPEC" at a meeting in Qatar
next week, pledging that Russia would never take part in such an
organisation.


Leading producers are to meet in Doha on Monday at the Gas
Exporting Countries Forum amid reports they have been working on
an Iran-backed plan to form a club to control prices.


"Are we going to sign up to a (gas) price policy? Of course not,"
Industry and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko told a news
conference.


He said that Russia had no intention of taking part in a gas
cartel, despite suggestions earlier this year from Russian
President Vladimir Putin that the idea of a "gas OPEC" should be
examined.


"We have not had, we have not and we will not have such an
objective of taking part in such a relationship against anyone,"
he said.


The idea of a "gas OPEC" has caused concern in consuming
countries, whose vulnerability to energy suppliers is a key
security issue, and the idea of a cartel was expected to figure
at the Gas Exporting Countries Forum.


Founded in 2001, GECF is an informal organisation grouping 15
countries. It includes Russia, Iran, Qatar, Venezuela and
Algeria, which together control 72 percent of world reserves and
42 percent of production.


Until now, its activities have remain limited, and it has not
even met since 2005.


Khristenko conceded that the Doha meeting "is causing a lot of
tension, sometimes exaggerated, sometimes wild."


But he said the meeting on Monday would be about "how to make the
functioning of the Forum more effective" and "reinforcing
cooperation" between members.


"For Russia, it is very important to use this possibility to put
in place a global energy dialogue," he said.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) proposed as the model for the gas producers was formed in
1960 and is the supplier of more than a third of world oil.


It controls oil prices by manipulating the output of its members,
using a production quota system that limits supply to the market.


With the exception of Russia, most of the leading gas producers
are OPEC members, such as Algeria, Iran, Qatar and Venezuela.


But analysts say that the creation of a "gas OPEC" would be
extremely difficult because gas is sold in long-term supply
contracts often stretching over 20 years and transportation of
the commodity is difficult.


"The gas market is quite different to the oil market," reassured
Claude Mandil, the head of the International Energy Agency, an
energy watchdog for rich countries, on Thursday.


"I don't see how it could be possible to transpose to the gas
market the mechanism that OPEC has achieved in the oil market, so
I am not very concerned," he added.


Putin said in February that forming a natural gas equivalent of
OPEC with Iran and other countries was "an interesting idea."


Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev was quoted by the Spanish
daily El Pais on Monday as saying the creation of such a cartel
was not imminent.


"We talk about this, and amongst gas producing countries the
desire exists for it, but I believe we will not arrive at the
creation of a gas OPEC for the moment," he said.

