

US foreign policy and the US role in the Mideast have become
prizes in a tug-of- war between a White House passionate about
clinging to its authority, and a hostile congressional majority
already focused on the 2008 US presidential race.


The strained exercise in checks-and-balances, while vital to US
political life, is not without its dangers however, experts warn.


Republican President George W. Bush and his Democratic foes in
Congress started their two-year exercise in power-sharing in
January pledging they would work together. But any good will was
short-lived and the two main US parties now are battling it out,
and affecting how the other acts.


They have clashed bitterly over a US troop withdrawal from Iraq,
which the Democrats want to impose on Bush for 2008, and over
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to Syria.


When Democrats try to force a pullout from Iraq "they cross over
a line" since the only president is commander-in-chief, Vice
President Dick Cheney told ABC television.


"He's the one who makes the decisions about the use of military
force, how they're deployed, when they're deployed, what purposes
they're deployed for ... (while) they are trying to usurp the
ability of the president to make those basic decisions," Cheney
added.


As to Pelosi's overseas outreach, former US UN envoy John Bolton
told Fox television "you know, we have a system of separated
powers. The speaker's a very important office, but it doesn't
conduct or articulate our foreign policy.


"Having such an official go to a place like Damascus can only
send the wrong signal. At best, this is naive. I think much more
likely it'd be very counterproductive. We'll have to spend weeks
trying to peel back the misimpressions that are created," Bolton
said.


Pelosi and the Democrats argue that they are well within their
prerogatives, that voters handed them a mandate to bring troops
back from a highly unpopular war, and that the United States
should be able to talk with other countries, even with their
enemies.


They often refer to recommendations made by the Iraq Study Group,
a bipartisan panel of prominent people who in December issued a
report on ways of moving forward in Iraq.


"The idea diplomacy is a bad idea is a unique idea for this
administration," said Senator Christopher Dodd, a 2008 Democratic
presidential hopeful.


"I mean, in previous administrations Republicans and Democrats --
Ronald Reagan, while he was calling the Soviet Union 'the evil
empire,' was sitting down as well and doing arms control
agreements. Richard Nixon went to meet with Mao Zedong; can you
imagine George Bush doing that in those days -- this president?
So I think he's dead wrong about this."


The president "has now, for the first time in his presidency, had
to understand that there are three branches of government," said
Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.


"The founding fathers set up three branches, independent, each
having the same power as the other. So the president has ignored
the legislative branch of government for six years. He hasn't had
to deal with them. They've been Republican-dominated and have
given him anything he's wanted. That's not the way it is anymore
... And this Congress is saying, 'We need to change direction in
the war in Iraq,'" Reid said.


The White House and Congress butting of heads is anything but
new. There have been plenty of controversial issues in the past,
including the Vietnam War, the Iran-Contra affair, and aiding the
Iraqi opposition to Saddam Hussein, which Congress imposed on
Bill Clinton's administration.


So Congress can influence foreign policy, even if its role is
supposed to be funding and overseeing, and not policy-making.


In reality, "this is about domestic politics and not about
foreign affairs," said David Schenker, an expert at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.


"It's very harmful. It does not enhance the stature, the
credibility, the belief in the competence of the US government,"
said Schenker.


Pelosi "is flexing her political muscles," he said. "Now that the
Democrats control Congress they think they can do whatever they
like and they find that it's good politics to oppose the
president very publicly; so there is a cynical political reason
for doing so.


"The second reason is she genuinely believes that dialogue is the
way to go and she doesn't believe the administration has been
doing enough of this. To that I would counter that of course this
is an administration's decision, and secondly that in fact the
administration did engage with Syria for 5 years from 2001
through 2005," he added.


Pelosi and the top Democrats "know that between now and the 2008
elections they need to be able to prove that their party has its
own strong ideas on national security and foreign policy issues
and specifically on the very thorny problems of the Middle East,
where they see a Bush record of failure and they would like to
put that record on display before the public," said Tamara
Wittes, of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy.


"So having a bunch of Democrats go out to the Middle East the
week before Easter is a good way from their perspective of
reminding Americans how little the Bush administration has
accomplished in this region and how much damage it has done,"
Wittes said.

