

Michael Hussey believes that Australia team-mate Andrew Symonds
could fill the gap left by injured all-rounder Shane Watson in
the champions' side at the World Cup.


Symonds's Queensland colleague sustained a left calf muscle
strain in Australia's 10-wicket win against Bangladesh in Antigua
last Saturday and is now doubftul for the remainder of the
tournament which concludes with the final in Barbados on April
28.


Watson's medium-pace bowling and aggressive batting helps balance
the Australia team but his absence ahead of Sunday's Super Eights
clash against England here at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium
leaves Australia pondering whether to play an extra batsman or
bowler.


However, Symonds could take up Watson's overs. A dynamic batsman
and brilliant fielder who can bowl off-spin, Symonds also has the
ability to bowl at a brisk and often under-rated medium-pace with
a well-disguised slower ball.


But he has not been able to operate at his quickest in recent
matches because of a biceps injury.


He is though regaining fitness and during Australia's practice at
the Antigua Recreation Ground here Friday repeatedly bowled his
medium-pacers.


"It's going to be important," said Hussey of Symonds's seam-
bowling. "He's a very versatile cricketer, his batting and his
fielding are outstanding.


"I think he's just getting a lot more confidence with his bicep
now. He's been bowling spin in the nets and in the matches but
now he feels he has the confidence in the arm to bowl medium-pace
as well and having that all-round package is a huge plus for the
team."


Hussey has scored just 20 runs in four innings in the Caribbean.


But batting behind the likes of Adam Gilchrist, Matthew Hayden,
Ricky Ponting, Michael Clarke and Symonds in a batting line-up
that has yet to score less than 300 at this tournament hasn't
given the 31-year-old Western Australian much chance to shine.


Nicknamed 'Mr Cricket' for his devotion to the sport, Hussey
enjoyed a prolific run of scores in both the Test and one-day
game after nailing down a place in the side following the 2005
Ashes series in England.


In the shorter format the left-hander has a reputation as an
ideal man to rebuild an ailing innings and, despite his poor run
of scores, he has no doubts about his ability to perform further
rescue acts.


"I'm happy with my form but I'm not happy with my results," said
Hussey, who could drop even further down the order if batsman
Brad Hodge is picked as Watson's replacement.


"I've been hitting the ball well in the nets. But I haven't
really had too many opportunities."


He added: "I've only been coming out in the last three, four or
five overs when you have to take a lot of risks.


"Unfortunately for me they haven't come off in the last couple of
games and I hope that will turn around in the next couple of
games.


"That's part of one-day cricket and part and parcel of my job.
It's an important job in the team and one I really enjoy a lot.


"But I know there are going to be times throughout this
tournament when I might have to come in when the team is in a bit
of trouble and resurrect the innings. I need to be ready for that
when it comes.


"I can't bat like a Ricky Ponting or an Adam Gilchrist or an
Andrew Symonds, I have my particular style. In our team we
complement each other very well. It's important for me to stick
to my plans and my game."

