

Mother Nature upset the Cleveland Indians' upset designs on the
Seattle Mariners on Friday, leaving the Indians, well, upset.


The game was called off in the fifth inning, short of reaching
official status, after snow delayed the start for nearly an hour
and further flurries brought delays totalling one hour and 58
minutes.


The Indians were leading 4-0, and Seattle were trying to battle
back with the bases loaded and two out in the fifth.


Indians starter Paul Byrd, who didn't give up a hit, was irked
that umpires stopped the game as he was ahead 1-and-2 in the
count against Seattle's Jose Lopez. Had he gotten Lopez out, the
game would have gone into the books as a Cleveland win.


"This was a weird day, a weird game," Byrd said. "It is very
frustrating. I won't be sleeping much tonight."


Byrd believed that Mariners manager Mike Hargrove, who was acting
on a gesture from Lopez at the plate, shouldn't have asked the
umpires to stop the game because of poor visibility in the midst
of an at-bat.


"When the last batter walks up to the plate, say something then,"
Byrd said. "Or how about when I was walking guys? When the count
was 3-and-0 on those guys, nobody said anything.


"The snow had been coming down the same way for five minutes
before that (Lopez's complaint). So say something before the
count is 1-and-2."


Byrd said Lopez, Hargrove and the umpires were all to blame for
poor timing of the decision.


"I like Mike Hargrove," Byrd said. "He's a man I respect. But I'm
upset when he doesn't come out until the count is 1-and-2. I'm
upset with the batter (for waiting to speak) when it's 1-and-2.
I'm upset with the umpire who waits until it's 1-and-2."


When Lopez pointed to his eyes to indicate he was having trouble
seeing, Hargrove walked to the plate and spoke to umpire Alfonso
Marquez.


They were joined by officiating crew chief Rick Reed and Indians
manager Eric Wedge, and Reed stopped the game.


"The umpires had told us to say something if players couldn't
see," Hargrove said. "Reed came in and said he couldn't see,
either. It wasn't about gamesmanship."


Reed said the officials left it as long as they could in hopes of
finishing a game.


"We were trying to get the game official if we could," he said.
"Hargrove's argument was that his hitter could not see and
complained to him."


Wedge tried to be philosophical.


"We obviously ended up on the south side of things," he said.
"Everybody was fighting for what they believed. But if the hitter
says he can't see, the umpire is going to stop the game."


The game will be made up as part of a day-night doubleheader on
Saturday.

