

Iraqi and US soldiers swept into the troubled central city of
Diwaniyah on Friday, launching a major crackdown against
militiamen and arresting 27 suspects amid fierce clashes.


Iraqi troops, backed by coalition soldiers and paratroopers,
moved into Diwaniyah in a bid to disrupt militia activity and
return control to the Iraqi government, in fighting that left
three enemy fighters dead, the military said.


Major Eric Verzola said two Iraqi soldiers and a coalition
soldier -- whose nationality was not specified -- were wounded in
Operation Black Eagle that saw Polish helicopters scrambled in
support of US troops.


Three militiamen were killed and six others wounded, said
Verzola, in what he described as "steady" fighting during an
operation that an Iraqi army source said would continue for
several days.


Hamid Gaati, head of the local health department, and an Iraqi
security official said earlier that one person was killed and 19
wounded.


The operation in Diwaniyah was launched just two days after the
government said an eight-week-old crackdown was being extended
from the capital after an upsurge in violence in the provinces.


Diwaniyah has seen repeated clashes between the security forces
and Shiite militias, and between rival militia groups. Last
August, nearly two dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of militiamen
were killed.


Bomb-making materials and 27 suspected insurgents were captured,
alongside discoveries of explosively formed projectiles and
materials used to make them, the military said.


Such devices have been blamed for the deaths of at least 170 US
service personnel since May 2004, and the white-hot slug of
molten copper they emit when they explode can cut through the
armoured skins of US military vehicles.


US commanders have charged that such weapons are made in Iran and
are supplied to Shiite militias in Iraq by elements of the Tehran
regime.


Security forces slapped a curfew on Diwaniyah and sealed off its
approaches, as witnesses and a local official reported clashes
between the soldiers and Mahdi Army militiamen loyal to radical
Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers were drafted in from neighbouring
towns such as Kut, Hilla and Najaf to take part in the operation,
an Iraqi officer said.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," said a local aide of Sadr.


Leaders of the cleric's movement had been scheduled to meet in
the city on Saturday, but an Iraqi army official said Diwaniyah
would remain under curfew as long as the operation continued.


The Americans charge that Sadr, a leading opponent of the US-led
military presence in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile
and have branded his Mahdi Army the most dangerous threat to
stability in Iraq.


"The Iraqi police are being infiltrated by militia and now the
Iraqi army and US military control all the police stations," an
Iraqi army source said.


Polish aircraft dropped leaflets over the city ordering local
police to stay at home and warning that anyone who went out with
a weapon would be considered a target, a military spokesman
confirmed.

