

South Africa skipper Graeme Smith has told his team-mates to
tighten their game more to boost hopes of qualifying for the
World Cup semi-finals.


"Our tough period is coming up now and we will have to find our
levels. We feel like we still have got a lot in the tank to go,"
the South African captain said here on Friday.


South Africa, who already have four points, look set to add to
their tally when they take on under-performing Bangladesh in
their third Super Eights match here on Saturday. A win will take
them closer to the semi-final spot.


"Every team will want to win enough games to secure a place in
the semi-finals and that's the time you want to peak. The quicker
you get there, the better. It takes the pressure off your side,"
said Smith.


"The crucial games are coming up for us. The two points we are
looking for here will take us where we want to go. We need to
step up going into the middle of the World Cup. We don't want do-
or-die games against bigger teams."


South Africa will meet the West Indies, New Zealand and England
in their last three matches. They have so far lost just one of
their five matches, against defending champions Australia in
Group A.


"Barring Australia, I think we have been pretty much in control
and that is encouraging. We let ourselves down against Australia
after having opportunities to win that game," said Smith.


South Africa lost the match by 83 runs while chasing a massive
378-run target, but Smith said he was satisfied with his team's
performances in the subsequent matches against Sri Lanka and
debutants Ireland here.


Smith said the team had grown in confidence after posting a tense
one-wicket victory over Sri Lanka in their opening Super Eights
match where Sri Lanka seamer Lasith Malinga took four wickets in
four balls.


"We wanted six points in Guyana and we now look forward to
Greneda. We have adapted pretty well here. We were pretty much in
control against Sri Lanka before Lasith Malinga's superb spell,"
said Smith.


"It's encouraging to know we had something in the tank in the
end. That's pretty encouraging. The Sri Lanka match was our
massive test. Sri Lanka are a form team and much-talked-about in
the tournament."


South Africa's top-order batsmen, especially Jacques Kallis, were
among runs in recent matches and Smith said he hoped the middle
order would deliver when the situation arose in the remaining
matches.


"I want the middle order to be in form as guys at number five,
six, seven and eight have not so far had a good hit in the
middle," he said.


"They look better and better in the nets, but nets cannot make up
for the time in the middle."


Smith said they were not thinking about the opposition they would
meet in the semi-final or final, but wanted to focus on their
game at the moment.


"We are not looking that far ahead. If we control our game, we'll
be pretty much okay. We back our abilities, The important thing
is to reach the semi-finals first," said Smith.


Smith said the team's first objective was to win the game against
Bangladesh who could be unpredictable.


"There is no doubt in my mind that in these conditions, they are
going to be a challenge. So, we will have to make sure we are up
for it," he said.


"Due to their unpredictable nature, they can get off to a fast
start, so I think it's about remaining calm. Obviosuly, we have
got our gameplans."

