

An Indonesian jet that crash-landed last month killing 21 people
was travelling nearly twice as fast as normal when it hit the
runway, Australian media quoted a confidential report as saying
Saturday.


The Sydney Morning Herald said it had obtained a copy of the
initial Indonesian report that pointed to pilot error as the main
cause of the crash, and also claimed Jakarta authorities were
trying to suppress the report.


The Garuda Indonesia Boeing 737 slammed hard onto the runway in
Yogyakarta on March 7, careened off the end of the air strip and
then burst into flames, killing 21 of the 102 passengers,
including five Australians.


The report found the jet was travelling at 410 kilometres (255
miles) an hour, almost double the recommended speed, and that
Yogyakarta's runway was only a quarter of the 240-metre length
recommended under international aviation standards.


Among the other findings of the report were that cockpit data
recordings revealed no mechanical problems before the landing but
that pilots reported a fault in the reverse thrust of one of the
engines shortly before take-off.


In addition, the weather was calm, contradicting the pilot's
reported claims of a massive down draught, and there is no
evidence of the pilots arguing in the cockpit before the crash,
the report said.


The report, which contained no analysis, also said that emergency
vehicles and fire engines could not reach the crash site quickly
and were not properly equipped when they did.


The Sydney Morning Herald also claimed that Indonesian
authorities were trying to suppress the report which could be
damaging to its aviation security reputation, going so far as to
put pressure on Australia to threaten families of the victims
with prison if they leak the report.


"The Indonesian Transport Minister, Hatta Radjasa, has tried to
block the release of the 'preliminary factual aircraft accident
report', insisting that Australian authorities should threaten
the families of the five Australian victims with up to two years'
jail if they disseminate it," the paper said.


The Garuda crash was the second airliner disaster in Indonesia
this year. An Adam Air plane plunged into the sea off the island
of Sulawesi on New Year's Day, killing all 102 on board.


Indonesia's government is trying to improve the country's
transport safety record following a string of deadly plane and
ferry disasters.

