

South Korea's Choi Kyung-ju never saw Augusta National Golf Club
play as tough as it did Friday, when he fired three-over par 75
for the second day in a row to make the cut at the Masters.


In his fifth appearance at the first major of every year, Choi
stood on six-over par 150 after 36 holes, sharing 33rd place some
eight strokes adrift of co- leaders Brett Wetterich and Tim
Clark.


"I think this week's Masters is the most difficult that I've
encountered since playing in this tournament in 2003," Choi said.


Choi's deficit is not insurmountable. Jack Burk set a Masters
comeback record in 1956 by rallying from eight strokes back after
36 holes and on the final day to take the coveted green jacket
symbolic of Masters supremacy.


But this year's effort will be hampered by dry conditions that
have made Augusta National firm and fast.


"It was a hard day," Choi said. "In the afternoon, the winds
became stronger and you couldn't stop your second shot. It was
difficult to control your game. The greens are now firmer and
faster.


"On 17, I was on the top of the green and hit my putt so gently
but it went five feet past the cup and I missed the putt coming
back.


"I'm playing well. In these conditions, you just want to get on
the greens. You need to hit good tee shots, good irons and chip
well."


Choi, a four-time winner on the US PGA Tour who finished third
here in 2004, said a ferocious test to the elite field will be
toughened when an expected cold front dips temperatures to five
degrees Celcius on Saturday.


"I'm looking forward to the weekend," Choi said. "I have to try
to be more accurate with my driver and also putt better.
Hopefully I can shoot a couple of under par scores."


Fellow Asian Tour products Jeev Milkha Singh of India and South
Korean Yang Yong-eun also reached the weekend. Singh shared 15th
with Tiger Woods, among others, on 147 after a 75 on Friday while
Yang shared 27th on 149 after a 74.


"For three of us to make the cut this week, I'm very impressed
with them," Choi said. "It's good for the game in Asia."

