

Like tens of thousands of other Somalis, Ruweyda Ali Hussein has
fled Mogadishu amid the bloodshed, and she now lives under a tree
just north of the city.


"No clean water to drink, no sufficient food and (we) don't even
have a good shelter," the 37-year-old mother of three said.


Of the estimated 100,000 who have left Mogadishu since February,
hundreds have ended up in Barakat, about eight kilometers (five
miles) north of the capital, near a cemetery where victims of the
country's conflict have been buried.


They have constructed shelters using plastic bags or settled for
no shelter at all. Supplies are short and they wait for aid
shipments.


Aid has been limited so far, with security concerns restricting
the presence of humanitarian workers in Somalia, a country in
near-constant conflict since 1991.


The situation worsened last weekend when Ethiopian troops, who
are backing the Somali government forces, mounted an offensive
against insurgents. It triggered four days of the worst fighting
in Mogadishu in more than 15 years.


A local rights group, which compiled figures from hospitals and
witnesses, said 381 civilians had died and 565 were wounded in
the fighting.


Humanitarian organisation Human Rights Watch said Friday it
appeared the Somali government had closed all airstrips around
Mogadishu, making it difficult for aid to arrive.


The African Union peacekeeping force on Thursday delivered water
to about 20,000 people who had fled to an area south of
Mogadishu. The same day the International Committee of the Red
Cross brought in nearly 12,000 tonnes of medicine and medical
equipment to the capital.


The AU force called for help from international organisations in
distributing aid.


The misery is evident, with people sleeping on mats, the hot sun
reflecting off the sand.


"We pray to Allah to return us back to our houses peacefully
because no one can maintain living under these hardships," Husein
said.


Mohamed Daud, a 41-year-old father of six, said he had managed to
remain at his home in Mogadishu throughout earlier fighting. But
it grew too intense this time, and he and his family left.


"We have never fled our homes," he said. "I left my beautiful
apartment and I live under this tree with my family members. You
can imagine how life is different and difficult."


A 12-year-old girl living with her family in the open air spoke
of being frightened at night.


"My dad tells me we are safe here, but I'm not satisfied because
there is no room to sleep," she said. "We are living in this open
ground with no buildings."


Conditions are so bad for many of those who have fled that at
least one man said he preferred to return home despite the
violence.


"I prefer the fighting because I cannot live in this difficult
situation," said Heydra Mohamed, a father of three. "We cannot
even get medicines for our children and some of them are
suffering. What can we do? How can we stay here?"

