

Long skeptical about climate change and its causes, the US
administration on Friday finally acknowledged the "global
challenge" facing the planet and called for international
solutions.


"Climate change is clearly a global challenge and we all
recognize that it requires global solutions," said Sharon Hays,
leader of the US delegation at the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC).


A summary of the IPCC's latest technical report released Friday
in Brussels raised questions about possible measures to reduce
harmful emissions by the United States, regarded as the world's
number one emitter of greenhouse gases.


It warned of devastating damage on all continents from global
warming, saying that the resulting climate change is set to hit
poor countries hardest, and threatens nearly a third of the
world's species with extinction.


The report said the consequences could be catastrophic, depending
chiefly on how much carbon gas is spewed into the atmosphere from
burning oil, gas and coal.


The United States consumes around a quarter of the world's energy
and causes nearly 30 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions.


Despite stressing his commitment to reduce emissions, US
President George W. Bush has refused to adopt the so-called Kyoto
protocol for countries to reduce them, arguing the cost would be
prohibitive.


He has also questioned their usefulness since major polluter
China, as a developing country, is exempt.


The US administration's top environmental official, Jim
Connaughton, on Friday defended Bush's record on addressing the
problem.


"This report further underscores what the (US) president has been
saying for some time about the seriousness of this challenge,"
said Connaughton, chairman of the White House Council on
Environmental Quality, answering questions alongside Hays.


He cited a pledge by Bush to reduce the United States' gasoline
(petrol) consumption by 20 percent over the next 10 years and
other measures. Bush plans to replace 20 percent of car fuel with
clean biofuel by 2030, he said.


"We are actually engaging the developing countries ... in
strategies for significantly reducing greenhouse gases," he said.
"I think you'll continue to see us advance new policies of a wide
variety."


Draft versions of the IPCC summary were fiercely disputed during
a week of tense negotiations. Publication was delayed after the
United States, China and Saudi Arabia objected to the wording of
certain parts.


At US insistence, summary drafters dumped a paragraph that said
North America could expect "severe local economic damage and
substantial ecosystem, social and cultural disruption," delegates
in Brussels said.


Hays hailed the final version, however, and stressed the need for
societies to take "adaptation" measures to counter the potential
damage. These could include measures such as planning for flood
damage when building, she said.


Gases such as carbon dioxide and methane trap the sun's heat in
the Earth's upper atmosphere, acting like the glass in a
greenhouse. Earth's temperature has been rising steadily since
the industrial revolution and scientists agree it has already
begun to affect the weather.


Bettina Menne, a World Health Organization specialist who was
lead author on the report's chapter on health, said 150,000
deaths could be "attributed directly" to climate change in 2000
alone, due to malnutrition and diarrhea.

