

Senegal's main opposition parties announced Friday they would
boycott June's legislative elections over the president's refusal
to change the electoral process.


They said they had begun withdrawing their 15-million CFA franc
(23,000-euro) deposits for the polls, which will render their
candidates ineligible to stand, ahead of the midnight deadline
for applications.


"We are going to gather the final documents that we need to
withdraw our deposits in the next few hours," said Yero De, the
spokesman for the opposition coalition comprising the Socialist
Party, LD/MPT and Rewmi parties.


"We cannot participate in the election without holding talks with
the president (Abdoulaye Wade) on the electoral process," he told
AFP.


Abdel Kader Sabara, a delegate of the Alliances of Forces for
Progress, another opposition coalition, said: "I am in the
process of completing the process to withdraw my deposit."


On Monday, 12 opposition leaders threatened to boycott the June 3
elections if Wade refused their calls to revise the voter list
and create an independent structure to replace the government-
appointed electoral commission.


The president, who was sworn in to a second term on Tuesday,
refused to meet them but said they were free to boycott the
polls.


Among those taking part in the boycott are Idrissa Seck, Ousmane
Tanor Dieng and Moustapha Niasse, who came second, third and
fourth respectively in February's presidential elections which
Wade won with 55.9 percent of the vote.


Only two small opposition parties -- the Jef-Jel alliance and the
African Party for Democracy and Socialism (AJ/PADS) -- have said
they will take part in the legislative elections.


There was no official response to the boycott on Friday but
commentators expressed concern at the effect on democracy in
Senegal, the only west African country never to have experienced
a coup d'etat.


"We are going to ask the parties to go back on their decision.
For the sake of democracy, they must give dialogue a chance,"
Alioune Tine, executive secretary of Dakar-based human rights
group RADDHO, told AFP.


"The opposition do not have the right to deprive voters of their
representation in the assembly. For his part, Wade must do
everything to ensure they are present to avoid a catastrophic
regression in a country viewed as a democratic leader in Africa."

