

The United States said Friday it has found a way to return frozen
funds to North Korea, a development linked to talks over the
reclusive state's nuclear program, and announced the chief US
negotiator with Pyongyang would make a new regional trip.


US negotiators left Beijing earlier on Friday without resolving a
financial sanctions dispute that threatens to derail efforts to
end North Korea's nuclear program.


Senior US Treasury official Daniel Glaser and his colleagues left
after 13 days of talks, the US embassy in Beijing said, without
any deal announced on the return to North Korea of about 25
million dollars frozen in a Macau bank.


North Korea had made the return of these frozen funds a condition
of its commitment, on February 13 in Beijing, to dismantle its
nuclear program.


"We believe the results from these conversations has been to
identify the technical pathway by which these funds may be
returned," said US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack,
though "at this point the US does not have an active role in
doing that."


The departure of the US negotiators cast further doubt over
whether North Korea may miss an initial deadline to shut down its
key nuclear facilities by April 14.


Under a six-nation agreement, North Korea agreed to disable its
Yongbyon reactor and allow UN nuclear inspectors back into the
country by the deadline in exchange for economic aid and
diplomatic concessions.


A US green light was given March 19 to unblock the funds at Banco
Delta Asia (BDA) of Macau but another bank expected to take part
in the funds transfer, Bank of China (BOC), was said to have
declined over concerns about its image.


McCormack said that "we have, working with all the other parties,
identified a way to potentially implement fully the agreement."


He added: "It is now a matter of the technical implementation of
that question and we stand ready to consult with Macanese
authorities and other interested parties as they work to
implement that decision.


"So the implementation phase of that is going to be to others."


"The US has voiced its support for the release of all the funds.
We have consulted with the interested parties and assured them
that there is a potential solution that is consistent with
international domestic banking laws," McCormack added. "That
implementation does not involve the US."


Asked if Hong Kong could be involved, he said reporters should
ask Macau.


The US Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill was to
travel to the region to put a new focus on denuclarization in the
six-party talks, McCormack said.


Hill was to leave Washington Sunday for Tokyo, and later head to
Seoul and Beijing.


The six-party talks had been held up since last month over the
financial sanction issue.

