

The 15 British naval personnel held by Iran told Friday how they
were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as part of
"psychological" intimidation during their detention.


A day after their return to Britain, the group said they feared
for their lives if they resisted and that they were threatened
with seven years in jail if they did not confess to trespassing
into Iranian waters.


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman told a news conference of the
tactics he said were used by their captors to get information and
confessions -- a stark contrast to Iranian television footage of
the group lounging around in tracksuits playing chess.


"It was mainly psychological, emotional. The isolation was a
major part of this; a complete suffocation in terms of
information from the outside world," he added, describing
questioning as "aggressive" and handling as "a bit rough."


"When we first went to prison we were put up against the wall,
hands bound, blindfolded and people were cocking weapons in the
background, which as you can imagine is an extremely nerve-
wracking occasion."


Royal Marine Joe Tindell, 21, said he thought they were about to
be executed and were having their throats cut one by one.


Iran has insisted that the 15 sailors and marines were in Iranian
waters when detained. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced the
release of the navy personnel on Wednesday, calling it a "gift"
to the British people.


Carman said that on the second morning of their detention they
were flown to Tehran and taken to a prison.


"Throughout our ordeal we faced constant psychological pressure,"
he said. "Later we were stripped and then dressed in pyjamas. The
next few nights were spent in stone cells, approximately eight
feet by six feet, sleeping on piles of blankets. All of us were
kept in isolation."


The eight sailors and seven Royal Marines were captured in the
northern Gulf on March 23 while carrying out what they said was a
routine anti-smuggling operation.


Amid claims they surrendered too easily, Royal Marines Captain
Chris Air said the Iranians "came with intent" and to resist
would have caused loss of life and a major international
incident.


"From the outset it was very apparent that fighting back was
simply not an option. Had we chosen to do so then many of us
would not be standing here today."


Air, 25, stressed that they were "well inside" Iraqi waters when
captured.


Carman, 26, backed him up, describing their detention as "clearly
illegal."


He said their television appearances were a stunt for the cameras
and they chose their words carefully to highlight that they were
giving an Iranian version of events.


The only woman in the group, Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, was
separated from the men straight away and later told that the
others had gone home four days earlier, the 15 said in a joint
statement.


"She coped admirably," Air said, condemning the Iranians for
using her as a "propaganda tool."


Turney was not present at the news conference at Royal Marines
Base Chivenor in Devon, southwest England, where the 15 spent
their first night of freedom after being reunited with their
families.


The sailors' comments were blasted by Iran, which accused British
Prime Minister Tony Blair of "putting pressure" on them.


"The propaganda and the staged show cannot cover up the British
military's violation of the Islamic Republic of Iran sea border
and their repeated illegal entry," foreign ministry spokesman
Mohammad Ali Hosseini said.


Iran's ambassador to Britain, Rasoul Movahedian, called on London
to respond to their release with a goodwill gesture -- namely
using their influence in Washington and Baghdad to help free five
Iranians held in Iraq.


"Now is the time for the British government to proceed in a
positive way," he told Saturday's edition of the Financial Times
newspaper.


"If they want to be helpful and use their influence we will
welcome that."


Citing diplomatic sources, The Guardian newspaper said Saturday
that the United States offered to mount aggressive air patrols
over Revolutionary Guards bases, but was told by Britain to stay
out of the stand-off.


The White House on Friday condemned any mistreatment of the
British service personnel.

