

Four years after US marines toppled a towering bronze statue of
Saddam Hussein, marking the end of his iron-fisted regime, Iraq
is battling to quell civil strife threatening the entire region.


On April 9, 2003, US tanks rolled into Baghdad's central Firdos
Square and marines pulled down the statue, which had a finger
pointed towards Jerusalem, by a rope around the neck, in a
premonition of Saddam's hanging last December.


Four years later, Saddam and three of his aides have been hanged.
Six are on trial for genocide and war crimes and Iraq has
descended into a quagmire of communal bloodletting that has
killed tens of thousands of civilians.


Jubilant Baghdadis who welcomed US tanks on that fateful day now
blame the dire situation on what even some of the country's most
senior leaders brand an unwanted US-led "occupation."


Gone are the euphoric April 9 cheers of "Good, Good, Bush"
praising US President George W. Bush for ousting the regime.
Angry chants of "Down with Bush" are a frequent background to
brutal Shiite and Sunni sectarian strife.


A cleric speaking on behalf of radical Shiite leader Moqtada al-
Sadr, whose Mahdi Army is branded the biggest danger to Iraq by
the Pentagon, has urged mass anti-American protests on Monday's
anniversary.


"The decision to turn the liberation of Iraq into an
occupation... was contrary to what Iraqi parties and national
forces were planning at the time," Iraq's pro-Western President
Jalal Talabani told an Arab summit in Riyadh last month.


"This applies equally to many hasty decisions and measures taken
by the occupation's civil administration without understanding
the Iraqis' point of view and the consequences they had," he
added.


Even American officials agree a key blunder was committed within
weeks of the regime's fall, namely the dismantling of Saddam's
military which overnight turned thousands of officers and lower-
rank soldiers against US forces.


What started as a Sunni-led anti-American insurgency aided by
pan-Islamic militant groups such as Al-Qaeda, mushroomed into
parallel civil strife after a revered Shiite shrine was bombed in
early 2006.


On February 22 last year, alleged Al-Qaeda militants bombed the
holy shrine in the northern town of Samarra, destroying its
beautiful golden dome.


Although the bombing caused no casualties, it triggered
nationwide Shiite-Sunni killings and forced Bush to dispatch
thousands more troops to Iraq rather than bow to mounting
domestic American pressure to bring them home.


In a last-ditch effort to quell the Sunni insurgency and the
Sunni-Shiite bloodletting, about 80,000 US and Iraqi troops have
been spread around Baghdad, the epicentre of the violence, in a
tough crackdown launched on February 14.


But despite US assessments that the eight-week operation is
yielding signs of progress as sectarian militias melt away, high-
profile car bombs, a hallmark of Al-Qaeda, remain a headache and
violence has fanned out to other regions.


On March 23, a suicide bomber blew up a truck full of flour and
explosives amidst a crowd of Shiites in the northern town of Tal
Afar, killing at least 107 people and wounding nearly 200 more.


Within hours about two dozen armed men, most of them allegedly
Shiite policemen, dragged Sunni Arabs out of their homes and shot
them dead. At least 56 Sunnis were massacred.


In western Iraq, Al-Qaeda is becoming ever more resourceful, now
employing new tactics such as dirty bombs, and one such chlorine
bomb killed 27 people Friday, while in the centre and south
Shiite militias jostle for supremacy and control of oil supplies.


Since the conflict began, two million Iraqis have fled the
country and 1.9 million have been displaced within its borders,
according to figures compiled by the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees.


Iraq's planning ministry and the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) say a third of the population lives in poverty
on less than a dollar a day.


Estimates of civilian casualties in the past four years vary
wildly, but the Iraq Body Count website's figure of 60,674 is
among the more conservative.


Despite Bush's warnings for patience in Iraq, a number of polls
show US public opinion on Iraq souring, with less and less
Americans saying they favoured the war, compared to 72 percent on
the eve of conflict four years ago.


At least 3,263 American, 140 British and 124 other coalition
soldiers have died since the invasion.


Analysts fear the conflict has the potential to flare into a
regional crisis should Sunni Arab states intervene to help Iraq's
Sunni minority against Shiite militia, whom the West already
alleges are funded and trained by Iran.


"The real challenge now is not just to stop the sectarian
violence but to contain it within the borders of Iraq," said
Joost Hiltermann, Middle East expert at the Brussels-based think
tank International Crisis Group.

