

A major retrospective on Claude Monet opened Saturday at Tokyo's
new National Art Center, bringing together nearly 100 works from
the French impressionist master, who is adored in Japan.


One of the first exhibitions held at Japan's largest museum,
which opened in January, "Claude Monet and His Posterity"
includes paintings by the crowd- pleasing artist as well as works
by dozens of others influenced by him.


The exhibition, organised with the Orsay Museum in Paris, focuses
in particular on the impact of Japonisme -- the Western craze for
Japanese art after Japan ended centuries of self-seclusion in the
1860s.


Monet, who lived from 1840 to 1926, was an avid collector of
Japanese woodcut prints and said Japan had inspired him to embark
on a "simplification of space."


"We have tried to understand the ways in which Monet was a
revolutionary, what he brought to art and what was absorbed and
taken back," Serge Lemoine, director of the Orsay Museum, told
AFP.


The exhibition looks at Monet's last period, during which he
painted his celebrated depictions of a Japanese footbridge and
white water lilies, "which the Japanese public is particularly
fond of," Lemoine said.


The exhibition includes 97 works from Monet including
masterpieces such as "La femme a l'ombrelle" ("Woman with a
parasol") which belongs to Washington's National Gallery of Art.


The exhibition in Tokyo also includes works from around 30 people
influenced by Monet -- contemporaries such as Georges Seurat and
Andre Derain and 20th-century artists such as pop-art guru Roy
Lichtenstein.


One room is also dedicated to the work of Japanese artists who
have been influenced by Monet.


The National Art Center, designed by architect Kisho Kurokawa,
has the most space of any museum in Japan but has no permanent
collection, with the focus instead on bringing exhibitions to
Tokyo.


The museum expects 600,000 visitors at the Monet exhibition
before it closes on July 2.


Impressionists have long had a strong fan base in Japan.


The Monet retrospective follows on the heels of another
exhibition organised in Japan with the Orsay Museum, a look at
the "search for Eden" by 19th century artists.


The Eden exhibition drew 800,000 visitors between September 29
and January 8 at the Kobe City Museum in western Japan and the
Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum.


In September, the Orsay Museum will open a retrospective on Henri
de Toulouse- Lautrec in Osaka and Tokyo.

