

Mikhail Youzhny held off Richard Gasquet in a marathon five-
setter Friday to keep defending champions Russia on terms in
their Davis Cup World Group quarter- final clash with France.


Youzhny held on for a 6-2, 6-3, 6-7 (8/10), 5-7, 8-6 triumph over
Gasquet to salvage a point for the Russians on the opening day.


Earlier, Paul-Henri Mathieu battled back from a set down to give
France an early lead with a 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 7-5 victory over
Nikolay Davydenko.


Elsewhere, both Sweden and Germany took commanding 2-0 leads with
opening singles victories, Sweden at home to Argentina and
Germany in Belgium.


"I have nobody to blame for what has happened at the court but
me," Youzhny said.


"I had plenty of chances to finish it much, much earlier but I
was in a hurry and got flustered trying to win as soon as
possible."


After taking a two-set lead, Youzhny took a medical break in the
third before Gasquet survived two match points and forced the
tiebreaker.


Youzhny appeared to have regained control with an early break in
the fourth, but again troubled by a cramp he allowed Gasquet to
break back twice to level at two sets all.


Gasquet survived two more match points in the fifth set before
Youzhny triumphed.


On Saturday, Marat Safin and Igor Andreev will team up in a bid
to beat French pair Michael Llodra and Sebastien Grosjean in
doubles.


In Gothenburg, Robin Soderling dominated Argentina's Juan Martin
de Potro 7-6 (7/4), 7-6 (7/4), 6-4 as last year's runners-up
Sweden put themselves in command.


Thomas Johansson needed nearly four hours to defeat David
Nalbandian 6-7 (3/7), 7-6 (7/2), 6-2, 7-6 (7/0).


Nalbandian, seven years Johansson's junior, dominated the first
set tiebreak after they traded breaks during the set, using his
powerful service to good effect. However Johansson found his own
form on serve to level the tie at a set each.


Johansson rained down a total of 33 aces to Nalbandian's 18, and
thrashed the Argentinian in the fourth set tiebreak 7-0.


Soderling had an easier path to tread than his compatriot, taking
just two and a half hours to claim victory over his teenaged
rival.


On Saturday Sweden can book their semi-final place with a victory
in the doubles, when Jonas Bjorkman and Robert Lindstedt face
Nalbandian and Sebastian Prieto.


At Ostend, Germany's Tommy Haas and Philipp Kohlschreiber both
won to give the visitors the upper hand over Belgium.


Old hand Haas overcame a tight start in his match against Kristof
Vliegen to emerge with a 6-7 (4/7), 7-5, 6-4, 6-2 victory.


Then Davis Cup debutant Kohlschreiber went on to make relatively
light work of Belgian number one Olivier Rochus, whose 6-3, 7-5,
7-6 (7/4) defeat also did much to zap the local players' morale.


Dick Norman and Christophe Rochus will team up for Belgium in a
bid to save their campaign against Alexander Waske and Michael
Kohlmann in doubles.


James Blake, ranked ninth in the world, gave the United States
the first point against visiting Spain with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-4
victory over Tommy Robredo at Winston-Salem, North Carolina.


World number three Andy Roddick was set to test a recent
hamstring strain as he faced Spain's crafty left-hander Fernando
Verdasco in the second singles match.

