

London should respond to Tehran freeing 15 British captives with
a goodwill gesture of its own, Iran's ambassador to Britain said
in an interview published Saturday.


Rasoul Movahedian indicated that Tehran wants Britain's help in
releasing five Iranians being held in Iraq and on easing
international fears about its controversial nuclear programme.


"We played our part and we showed our good will," he told the
Financial Times newspaper.


"Now it is up to the British government to proceed in a positive
way."


He denied that the announcement Wednesday that the naval
personnel were being freed after 13 days in captivity was linked
to the case of the Iranians being detained in Iraq or the release
Monday in Baghdad of an Iranian diplomat kidnapped at gunpoint in
Iraq in February.


But he added: "If they (the British) want to be helpful and use
their influence we will welcome that.


"We will welcome in general any steps that could defuse tensions
in the region."


On January 11, US troops seized five Iranians from the northern
Iraqi city of Arbil, saying they were suspected of aiding the
insurgency.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair has also insisted that there
were no "side deals" in securing the freedom of the sailors and
marines.


Blair did say that new channels of communication had opened up
between Britain and Iran in the efforts to get them released.


Movahedian said: "We believe it is the right time for the British
government to affirm its willingness to establish sensible lines
of communication with Iran."


He said it was a "mutual task" shared by world powers to "glean
the fruits" of Iran's decision to release the sailors.


The diplomat said Iran would welcome recognition from the
permanent five members of the United Nations Security Council of
what he said was the Islamic republic's right to enrich uranium.


"That's the prime issue for Iran and I think that could help set
a new basis for our future relations with Western countries," he
told the business daily.


As the plane bringing the freed captives home touched down in
London on Thursday, reacting to news that four British soldiers
were killed in an attack in southern Iraq, Blair said there were
elements of the Tehran regime that were financing, arming and
supporting terrorism in that country.


"I fully understand the political atmosphere in which the prime
minister stated this comments," said Mohavedian. "But this can't
be a pretext for making allegations."

