

Global warming could create tens of millions of climate refugees,
although numbers are hard to predict with accuracy and the
definition itself is open to debate, experts say.


"According to some estimates, there are already almost as many
environmentally displaced people on the planet as traditional
refugees," said Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).


"As the impacts of climate change strike home, the numbers are
likely to rise considerably, possibly as high as 50 million by
2010," de Boer said on Friday on the sidelines of a meeting in
Brussels of the UN's top climate panel.


"The issue of environmental refugees promises to rank as one of
the foremost human crises of our time," Norman Myers, an Oxford
University professor who has long studied environment-driven
migration, told AFP.


How many climate refugees there are today and could be in the
future remains unclear, and the term itself is considered by
critics to be unreliable or politically charged.


Some experts say it can already apply to Inuit communities who
lose their homes and livelihoods in North America and Greenland
because of melting ice, and to peoples around central Africa's
fast-shrinking Lake Chad.


By some yardstick, it could also apply to the tens of thousands
who fled New Orleans in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina, they say.


Some scientists, though, say there is no long-term evidence yet
for declaring Katrina to have been a storm intensified by global
warming, rather than a natural, extremely violent event.


In the future, the ranks of the displaced could be swollen by
people fleeing flood-threatened delta cities in Asia, parched
farmland in Africa or small tropical island states where tourism
revenue has been devastated by the death of coral reefs and beach
erosion.


Many of these countries already suffer from environmental
problems and fragile communities there could be pushed over the
edge by the added impact of global warming, said Thomas Downing,
director of the Stockholm Environment Institute in Oxford.


"There is going to be a lot of population movement linked to
climate," he said.


"Not all will be permanent refugees, but when you add climate to
other forces that push people beyond the capacity to cope, the
numbers will increase."


A major report on the impact of global warming released by the
UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) at the
Brussels meeting avoided the term "refugee" entirely, referring
instead to "environmental migrants."


It made no attempt to quantify them, either now or in the future.


"Estimates of the number of people who may become environmental
migrants are at best guesswork," the report said, citing several
uncertainties: migrations that are often temporary or seasonal,
while motivations are complex and can include the desire to
escape from poverty.


Census data is very unreliable, it added, and "there is a lack of
agreement on what an environmental migrant is anyway."


The term "refugee" is contested for other reasons.


"The UNHCR [UN High Commissioner for Refugees] doesn't want
people to talk about climate refugees," UNFCCC spokesman John Hay
said. "They would prefer that the term 'refugee' apply to
politics only."


De Boer's figure of 50 million displaced people by 2010 referred
to studies that were conducted several years ago or more.


A Red Cross and Red Crescent study in 2000 said 25 million people
had left their homes because of environmental stress, roughly as
many as the refugees from armed conflict.


In later work, Myers, one of the leading experts on the link
between climate change and forced migration, said this number
could double by 2010 and reach as high as 200 million "once
global warming kicks in."

