

Samart Deesuma is the mayor of one of Thailand's most dangerous
districts, deep in the southern provinces where Islamic
separatists stage attacks almost daily.


Although he is a Muslim, Samart takes no chances and has
transformed his home into a bunker with a small arsenal,
surrounded by six-inch concrete walls with peep holes for gunmen
to fire at attackers.


"If the villagers say there is an incident nearby, they can come
to get guns. I keep many guns here, and if the insurgents raided
here, they could get several weapons," he says.


"But if they do come here, not all of them will return home. They
will go to the hospital or the graveyard."


Since he built the bunker three years ago, he says militants have
staged only one attack near his home six months ago. He and his
armed volunteers helped drive them off, and he says the village
has had no problems since.


Thailand is increasingly moving to arm civilians, which has led
Buddhists in particular to fortify entire villages in a region
already beginning to fracture along religious and ethnic lines.


The government has imposed curfews in two of the most violent
districts of Yala, but in the mainly Buddhist community of
Lampaya, the mayor has banned Muslims from entering town after
dark.


Joint Buddhist-Muslim teams patrol the town after dark, and about
400 of the village's 5,000 people have been trained to defend
themselves, Mayor Chalong Thongnar said.


"It is very useful. Even though the violence is still going on
here, it is not as serious" as in other places, he said.


About half of the 2,000 people killed in the conflict have been
Muslims, mostly civilians, but the number of Buddhists killed far
exceeds their proportion of the population in this region.


Army officials say they believe that in recent months the
militants have begun trying to drive Buddhists out of the region,
which has created a siege mentality in many communities here,
where people feel their only hope of survival lies in their
ability to defend themselves.


Thailand has in the past recruited villagers to help with
national defense, notably in the fight against communist
insurgents in the 1960s.


The interior ministry now operates a similar programme in the
south, arming and training Buddhist and Muslim villagers to aid
the regular government forces, who number 20,000 in the region.


"The basic idea is to train the villagers to protect the village
and to communicate with security forces," said political analyst
Panitan Wattanayagorn.


In addition to the defense volunteers, teachers have also been
given permission to carry weapons outside the classroom for self-
defense.


Thailand's Queen Sirikit has set up her own programme to arm and
train people in the south to defend themselves, which the
military says is focused mainly on protecting Buddhists.


"I can no longer tolerate allowing either Buddhists or Muslims to
get killed every day," her aide de camp, General Naphon Boonthap
quoted her as saying last week.


"We have to help them survive, no matter what other people say.
Even though we are arming them, I am not asking them to kill
other people, but to defend themselves," he quoted her as saying.


Panitan, who sees the militias as an important element of the
government's defense effort, says the best way to keep them in
check is "for the officers not to be overly confident and allow
certain aggressive activities".


"The key is monitoring, advising and controlling" the militias,
he says.


The government installed after last year's military coup in
Bangkok has made efforts to ease the unrest, but with no tangible
results.


Officials readily admit that they still do not know exactly who
is behind the violence because no one has claimed responsibility
for any of the attacks or made any demands of the government.


This region has suffered periodic outbreaks of separatist unrest
ever since Thailand annexed the region a century ago, but exiled
leaders of former rebel movements appear to have little control
over the current militancy.


Government officials and outside analysts say that unlike
previous outbreaks of separatism, which were motivated mainly by
a desire for regional autonomy, the latest violence is
increasingly fueled by religious extremism.


Panitan says many Buddhist civilians feel a "panic" about the
conflict that has led them to seek weapons to defend against
attacks the government has so far been unable to halt.


At the scene of a drive-by shooting in Yala, one soldier says he
fears the violence will accelerate.


"It's become normal -- in this area it's normal anyway. If
nothing happens that's not normal," the soldier says.


"These things are increasing, increasing all the time and
becoming more serious," he adds.

