

With naval links dating back to the 16th century, the south-west
of England, home to several of the 15 naval personnel freed by
Iran, has weathered many a maritime storm in the past.


But while few incidents have whipped up passions like the most
recent stand-off, it is widely believed to be unlikely to damage
the historic links between the navy and marines and the counties
of Devon and Cornwall.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, Operator Mechanic Arthur Batchelor
and Operator Maintainer Simon Massey all live in the city of
Plymouth, in Devon.


Able Seaman Nathan Summers' home town is Hayle, in neighbouring
Cornwall, a pretty holiday resort just down the rocky coastline.


HMS Cornwall, the ship the group was serving on when they were
captured in the northern Gulf on March 23, is based at Devonport,
the huge naval dockyard in the port city of Plymouth.


The area's maritime connections date back to at least 1588 when
the English seafarer and explorer Francis Drake left the
promenade in Plymouth to see off the Spanish, but, as legend has
it, not before he finished his game of bowls.


Matt Chorley, political editor of the local Western Morning News
newspaper, said local people are still intensely conscious of
their maritime heritage and have a "real affection" for the
services.


"There's a real sense of history because you can stand on
Plymouth Hoe where Francis Drake was playing bowls when the
Spanish Armada came and there's a statue of him there," he told
AFP.


"People move there initially because they are posted there and
then they settle down with their families and sometimes the next
generation goes into the forces as well."


Derek Salt, treasurer of veterans' welfare organisation the Royal
British Legion in Cornwall, said that the area's geography also
played a part -- three-quarters of the county is bordered by sea.


Its isolation from the rest of the country -- Cornwall is a five-
hour train ride from London -- also means that the fiercly
independent Cornish people are more willing to travel the world,
he added.


"You're much more likely to come across a Cornish miner in
Australia than someone working in London," he said, speaking in a
personal capacity.


"They would always tend to look towards the sea rather than
looking to England."


But nowadays, there is also an economic imperative to join the
forces.


Despite its pretty beaches and booming tourism, the south-west
contains some of the most deprived areas in Britain following the
decline of traditional industries such as tin mining and fishing.


Speaking over a pint of beer at Summers' local pub, Tristan
Lawer, a close friend of the sailor, told AFP that many of his
friends had enlisted because of a lack of other opportunities in
the area.


"The main thing about people joining the forces down here is
because there is not much money when it comes to any other job,"
he said.


"You can't get a job down here earning a lot of money and if you
do, you would be very lucky. A lot of people do it (enlist)."


Many locals still remember conflicts such as the 1982 Falklands
War with Argentina, when ships steamed out of Plymouth for the
South Atlantic Ocean.


But the forces are not seen as a dangerous occupation "because
it's in the psyche", Chorley added.


"There's not much traditional industry left," he said.


"It's still seen as quite a good way of getting out of that,
quite respectable and a way to have a bit of an adventure."


This is unlikely to change, despite the trauma of seeing locals
in Iranian captivity, he said, adding that if anything, the
crisis had "galvanised people who are proud of our boys".


"Because it ended reasonably promptly and with a happy ending, I
think people will see it as all part of the job," he said.


"I think the current situation in Iraq is more likely to put
people off."

