

Two French aid workers who went missing this week have been
kidnapped by Taliban militants in southwest Afghanistan and taken
to volatile Helmand province, a provincial governor said
Saturday.


"According to intelligence service reports, they were kidnapped
on the highway in Khash Rod district (in Nimroz province) and
taken to neighbouring Helmand," Nimroz governor Ghulam Dastgir
Azad said by telephone.


He is the first official to confirm that the French nationals,
who went missing on Tuesday, were kidnapped.


The two aid workers from the organisation Terre d'Enfance (A
World for Our Children) were travelling with three Afghan
colleagues from Nimroz westwards to neighbouring Farah province
when they went missing.


The Taliban militia, who have mounted a bloody insurgency since
they were ousted by US-led forces in 2001, claimed late Wednesday
to have captured the five.


The governor said a search operation by some 200 security
officials for the missing people in Khad Rod district had been
called off Saturday after the troops failed to locate the aid
workers.


"Most of our troops have returned and the operation has been
called off. We conducted a very massive operation including
searching suspected houses but we couldn't find them in the
area," he said.


Helmand province, where the intelligence reports say the hostages
have been moved to, is a Taliban stronghold where the rebels hold
several districts.


An Italian journalist was kidnapped March 5 by the Taliban in
Helmand province, which adjoins Nimroz.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo was released two weeks later in a
controversial deal.


The Taliban are still holding Mastrogiacomo's translator, Afghan
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, and have demanded the release of two
more Taliban in exchange for his freedom. The rebels beheaded a
driver captured with them.


Karzai pledged Friday to make no more hostage deals, saying that
the one he made last month to free the Italian journalist was
because the Italian government -- which has 1,800 troops in
Afghanistan -- could have collapsed.


Karzai ordered the release of five Taliban prisoners, including
some high- profile figures, in the controversial trade which
resulted in the freedom of Mastrogiacomo.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
he said. "No more deals with no one and with no other country."


The rebels are also holding five Afghan medics they kidnapped on
March 27 in the southern province of Kandahar.

