

Israel launched an air strike against suspected Gaza militants on
Saturday, killing one and wounding two, as it made good on
threats to get tough over persistent rocket fire from the
territory.


Israeli fire also wounded a Palestinian militant commander on its
most wanted list in the West Bank town of Jenin in what the
militant group called a deliberate assassination attempt.


Palestinian medics named the militant killed in the Gaza raid as
Fuad Maaruf, 22, an activist of the leftist Democratic Front for
the Liberation of Palestine.


The DFLP said Maaruf was killed by missiles from an Israeli
helicopter as he was taking part in an "extended ambush" of
Israeli troops operating inside the Gaza Strip alongside
militants of the ultra-hardline Islamic Jihad group.


Witnesses said the helicopters opened fire on an area east of the
Jabaliya refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip while several
Israeli tanks advanced a few metres (yards) into the territory.


The Israeli military confirmed the air raid but denied any ground
incursion.


"The helicopters opened fire after suspect movements near the
security barrier (between Israel and the Gaza Strip) to the east
of Jabaliya," an army spokesman said.


"Some armed men were preparing to plant a bomb near the security
barrier."


On Wednesday, Israeli troops entered the Gaza Strip in their
first incursion since a November ceasefire, killing one
Palestinian militant.


Israel withdrew all of its troops from the territory in November
as part of a truce with militants who undertook to halt rocket
fire.


But some militant groups have refused to abide by the ceasefire
deal, and have since fired 155 rockets at Israel, according to
the army. In December rocket fire wounded two teenagers in the
Israeli town of Sderot.


On March 28, Israel launched its first strike against a militant
rocket team in Gaza since the truce, but no soldiers entered the
territory at the time.


Last Sunday, Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz ordered troops
to take "decisive action" against militants and rocket fire.


"I think difficult questions are being posed in regard to the
ceasefire, which is why we are preparing ourselves for any
scenario," he told army radio on Monday.


In the northern West Bank town of Jenin on Satyrday, the local
commander of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, Zakaria Zubeidi,
sustained a bullet wound to the shoulder during an Israeli
incursion, according to sources from his militant group, an armed
offshoot of president Mahmud Abbas's mainstream Fatah faction.


Zubeidi, who became infamous in Israel after female Israeli
friend Tali Fahima was detained three years ago for aiding and
abetting his operations and jailed until January this year, was
"wounded in a targeted operation by the Israeli army aimed at
assassinating him," the sources said.


But the Israeli army denied trying to carry out a "targeted
killing" against the militant leader.


"During a routine operation in Jenin, our soldiers came under
attack with small arms and explosives, and returned fire," a
spokesman said.


Zubeidi was unbowed by his injuries, however, and vowed to carry
on his campaign of armed resistance.


"My men will continue to fight against the Israeli army as long
as it continues to carry out incursions into Palestinian towns,"
the militant commander told the Ynet website of Israel's top-
selling daily Yediot Aharonot.


Zubeidi said that his men had detonated a bomb to halt the
advance of 15 Israeli military vehicles and a bulldozer into
Jenin refugee camp.

