

The family of Rwanda's former president, a Hutu who was killed in
a 1994 attack that triggered the Rwandan genocide, on Friday
objected to a government-created probe and questioned its
neutrality.


The Rwandan government said last month it would create an
independent commission to investigate the attack on a former
president Juvenal Habyarimana's aircraft, but did not say when
the work would begin or give details on its make-up.


"The family of president Habyarimana recognizes neither the
competence or the neutrality of the commission issued by the
(Tutsi rebel group the Rwandan Patriotic Front) RPF government,"
his daughter, Canada-resident Marie-Rose Habyarimana wrote in the
Quebec daily Le Devoir.


Over the course of 100 days in 1994, around 800,000 people in
Rwanda, most of them Tutsis and moderate Hutus, were slaughtered
in a genocidal campaign planned and orchestrated by the Hutu
government in power at the time.


In July of that year, a Tutsi rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic
Front, led by Paul Kagame, now president, seized power in Kigali,
putting an end to the genocide.


Habyarimana's daughter accused the RPF of being "the initiator
and principal actor of the Rwandan conflict," and said its
leaders were "suspected of perpetrating this attack."


In November 2006, Rwanda broke ties with France after French
judge Jean-Louis Bruguiere called for President Kagame to be
tried for alleged complicity in the death of Habyarimana. Kagame
denied the allegations.


Habyarimana's daughter said any probe could be guaranteed
independent if it were formed through the United Nations, as was
the case with a UN investigation into the murder of Lebanese ex-
premier Rafiq Hariri.


"We wonder a lot about the UN's indifference and ambivalent
attitude. The UN policies have a double standard, as if the blood
of Rwandans did not have the same value as others," she said.


"We continue to demand that light be shed on this attack," she
added. "We continue to ask that justice be served for all."

