

Manchester United are the masters of their own destiny according
to veteran boss Sir Alex Ferguson.


With a six point lead over English Premiership title rivals
Chelsea and just seven games left to play ahead of Saturday's
matches, Ferguson insisted that United just need to hold their
nerve to claim their ninth Premiership crown under his
stewardship.


"We have it in our hands now," said the Scot. "We just have to
keep our nerve.


"The form of the team has been fantastic. I have no problem with
that at all. It makes me feel as though we can go anywhere and
get a result."


Although tricky trips to Everton and Manchester City remain, as
well as the potentially-crucial encounter with Chelsea at
Stamford Bridge in the final week of the campaign, it would be a
major surprise if United were not to collect the points required
to wrap up a first title in four years.


And for Ferguson, who kept his team in Italy for an extra two
days after the Champions League defeat to Roma to cut down on
travelling ahead of the south coast visit, now is a time for cool
hearts and strong minds.


Ferguson is set to stick with the same side that started against
Roma, meaning Louis Saha and Darren Fletcher will remain on the
bench.


Patrice Evra returns to the squad after a knee injury, a welcome
addition given the decisive encounter with Roma is looming at Old
Trafford on Tuesday.


However, Gary Neville will be missing at least until the
Premiership encounter with Sheffield United on April 17, ensuring
he will miss both the Roma clash and the FA Cup semi-final with
Watford next weekend.


Another man who will sit out the Champions League game is Paul
Scholes, whose dismissal at the Stadio Olimpico for two yellow
cards has earned criticism in some quarters.


Not from his manager though, who stands by his initial claim Roma
defender Cristian Chivu played a major role in getting Scholes
sent off.


And, although Scholes has already missed a total of seven matches
in domestic suspensions this term, Ferguson has no intention of
telling his midfield maestro to ease off in a bid to stay out of
trouble.


"I don't look upon what happened to Paul on Wednesday and feel he
let us down," said Ferguson. "He won the game for us against
Blackburn last weekend with a magnificent performance. If he had
stayed on the pitch on Wednesday, we might have won that game
too.


"But these things happen. Paul is a very influential player for
us and I am not going to turn round and tell him not to tackle."

