

A new film in which Bollywood star Aishwarya Rai plays a victim
of domestic violence could mark the high point of her career,
trade pundits said, after the film opened in India on Friday.


"Provoked" is based on an autobiography by Kiranjit Ahluwalia who
was jailed for killing her violent husband by setting him on fire
in 1989 after having endured a decade of rape and beatings.


The autobiography -- "Circle of Light" -- details how Ahluwalia
was once threatened with a hot iron, which sparked the killing.


"This role is meant for Aishwarya. She looks coy and vulnerable
and evokes empathy. I would say this is the best role of her
career," said Bollywood expert Indu Mirani, editor of film
website thirtymm.com.


Critics have often panned the former Miss World for her acting
skills.


But this time, Rai, 33, has garnered praise for her realistic
portrayal -- a far cry from the trademark glitz of Bollywood
films.


"Definitely, she has shown the pain of my life on her face,"
Ahluwalia told the Hindu newspaper. "She has done a very good
job."


Ahluwalia was charged with murder in 1989 and sentenced to life,
but the punishment was reduced after pressure from activists
which put the spotlight on domestic abuse.


Director Jagmohan Mundhra said Rai's allure for millions of
Indians and an international profile would help pull in audiences
for what is considered an unappealing topic in Bollywood, which
mainly churns out candyfloss romances.


"It took me some time to release the film here because Indian
distributors are not believers in non-formula films," Mundhra
said.


"As for 'Provoked', so many people are interested in it because
of Aishwarya," he said. "She is a brand name, recognised the
world over."


"The subject of the film is such that they needed someone like
Aishwarya to pull people," said Mirani.


Rai's acting was also lauded at the London premiere of the film
this week.


The film's prospects were expected to get a boost because of
Rai's plans to marry actor boyfriend Abhishek Bachchan, son of
Indian screen legend Amitabh Bachchan, later this month.


Both Rai and Bachchan are among the most glamorous and successful
people in Bollywood and their relationship has generated massive
media frenzy.


The pair's latest film "Dhoom 2" was the highest grossing
Bollywood movie last year, collecting 1.65 billion rupees (37
million dollars) at the box office.

