

Voters headed to the polls under tight security Saturday in
India's most populous state Uttar Pradesh with tens of millions
of people eligible to cast ballots during the month-long
elections.


Voters were choosing from parties headed by colourful characters
-- including a former wrestler and a woman from India's
untouchable classes -- both with corruption allegations hanging
over their heads.


Accused murderers and bandits were also among the candidates
running in this state, which is known as one of India's most
crime ridden.


More than 50,000 paramilitary troops were on duty at polling
stations in the first 62 constituencies voting on Saturday to
ensure peaceful voting.


The national Election Commission was seeking to ensure clean
elections as previous polls have been marked by violent clashes
between rival supporters.


Some 16 million voters could cast ballots in the first round of
the marathon poll being held in seven stages in the state of 170
million people.


Some 403 seats are up for grabs in the election which wraps up in
May with two regional parties -- the ruling Samajwadi Party and
the Bahujan Samaj Party -- running neck and neck, according to
opinion polls.


Police were placed at polling stations in the state's largest
city, Kanpur, a former mill town of 2.7 million that is studded
with gun shops.


"Things are going smoothly, there's absolutely no problem, we
have got adequate security for controlling the situation and for
law and order," said additional superintendent of police Rakesh
Kumar Jolly.


Crowds milled near polling booths to have their names checked
against voter identification lists. Senior Kanpur police officer
Javeed Ahmed called the voting operation "huge."


An election worker who had picked up electronic voting machines
for his polling site said he was happy with the arrangements.


"This time they have brought in outside forces," said school
teacher Raj Kumar Agnihotri.


"In the past they had police officers with sticks" who were not
able to provide adequate security, he said.


Travel to the districts that are voting was curtailed from late
Friday and shops were closed Saturday.


"I have never seen an atmosphere like this," said voter Sukheep
Singh, 28, referring to the tight security.


"It's not an easy job to conduct elections in a state where
criminals and mafia lords also vie for political power," the
state's chief electoral officer, A.K. Bishnoi, told AFP earlier
this week.


A third of the candidates of the two top parties in the state
face criminal charges, the Association for Democratic Reforms
election watchdog says.


Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has appealed to voters to keep
him in power after his chief rival, Mayawati Kumari, who heads
the Bahujan Samaj Party, swore to prosecute him on corruption
charges if she was elected.


"Do you want me to go to jail or do you want me to work?" asked
Yadav, a former wrestler whose Samajwadi Party is supported by
his own Yadav caste and Muslims, at a rally Monday.


"Vote me in to power. Otherwise I will go to jail."


The feisty Mayawati, who rose to power with the support of
Dalits, as untouchables are now known, is also being investigated
for corruption.


Arms sales have been halted until votes are counted on May 11 but
an increasing number of people have come to buy guns for self-
protection, said gunshop owner Afzal Alam.


Yadav's opponents blame the current government for being lax on
crime in general.

