

A senior Russian lawmaker called Saturday for Russia to be
included in US plans to build a missile defence system in Europe,
warning Moscow will otherwise view the antimissile shield as a
threat.


"Russia has every reason to be interested in close cooperation in
creating Eurasian missile-defense systems," Konstantin Kosachev,
chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the State Duma,
wrote in an opinion piece in the International Herald Tribune.


"And any attempt to build them without Russia (which is not only
an interested party but also geographically and technically the
most suitable place for an effective antimissile defense)
automatically means they are being built against Russia," wrote
the lawmaker.


Russia has repeatedly criticised the United States' plans to
place missile defence equipment in countries that were once part
of Moscow's orbit.


The United States has asked the Czech Republic to host a radar
system and Poland to host interceptor rockets as part of its
missile defence plans.


Washington insists the anti-missile shield is intended as
protection against attacks from "rogue states" such as Iran and
points out that the proposed system would be useless against
Russia's vast weapons arsenal.


Kosachev argued building an antimissile shield without Russia
wouldn't be effective and counterproductive as Moscow would view
it as a threat.


"Our colleagues in Europe should understand this basic principle:
Any attempt to build a security system without Russia (still less
against it) by definition cannot be comprehensive or effective,"
he wrote.


"Instead of security for Europe's people we will have a new
division and new targets on our densely populated Continent,"
Kosachev noted, echoing warnings by other Russian officials that
Moscow would be forced to target the anti-missile shield.


On Friday, the lower house of the Russian parliament warned that
the antimissile shield risks triggering a new international arms
race.


"Such decisions, which are useless in terms of preventing
potential or imaginary threats from countries of the Middle and
Far East, are already bringing about a new split in Europe and
unleashing another arms race," read the declaration, which was
approved unanimously by deputies in the State Duma.

