

Andy Roddick and James Blake both swept through in straight sets
to give the United States a 2-0 lead over Davis Cup World Group
quarter-final rivals Spain on Friday.


Blake began with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 victory over Tommy Robredo while
Roddick recovered from 5-2 down in the first set to defeat
Fernando Verdasco 7-6 (7/5), 6-1, 6-4 in the international indoor
hardcourt contest.


Roddick played at full strength after quitting a quarter-final
last week in Miami with a hamstring problem.


But, like Blake, he found himself in a struggle to close it out
as Verdasco saved five match points before finally sending a
return out after just over two hours.


"It felt like 12 (hours)," said a relieved Roddick, who won his
23rd Davis Cup singles match. "I wasn't counting, but I really
wanted to get off that court a winner.


"I had to swallow my nerves to get it done," said Roddick, who
was out-aced 14-12 by Verdasco, ranked 35th.


Coach Patrick McEnroe praised his team, which has taken a a 2-0
lead for the first time in seven ties.


"James got us off to a great start and Andy showed that he's fit
after battling his hamstring injury for a week," said the
captain. "It's great to be up 2-0 for a change.


"But we still that that one final point."


Blake, ninth in the world, was coming off a desperate run of form
last month on home hardcourts, winning only one match at two
events at Indian Wells and Miami.


But the 27-year-old American, who made his Davis Cup debut six
years ago at this North Carolina venue, suddenly came alive at
the right moment at this indoor hardcourt event to put the hosts
into an early lead.


"This meant so much to me," said Blake, who had lost his previous
two Davis Cup matches. "You can come in sour after Davis Cup
losses, they are so great to win and so tough to lose.


"But if I'm in a slump, that's a compliment, I'm still in the top
ten. There were people who believe in me in the stands. I expect
to be back to my old self in no time.


"There couldn't be a better feeling than to win this match."


Blake had it all his way in the first two sets and early in the
third as he went up a break against the sixth-ranked Robredo.


But leading 5-2 in the third, the American had to battle nerves,
losing serve for 5-3. Robredo then saved a match point in the
next game as Blake tightened further.


The American broke free to win in one hour, 57 minutes as he came
good on his fourth match point, a volley into the empty court.


"I was moving very well," said Blake. "When I do that, I get a
lot of forehands and fell like I'm controlling the points."


Spain is playing without world number two Rafael Nadal, who opted
out of the tie to rest a sore right foot in time for the start of
the pre-Roland Garros clay season.

