

Four years after Saddam Hussein's ouster, Iraq's new judiciary is
dismantling piece by piece the remnants of the dictator's
ruthless regime built up over a quarter of a century.


The executed president's inner circle of family members and many
of his cronies -- mostly Sunni Arabs from the Tikrit region of
northern Iraq -- have been hunted down and are being sent to the
gallows one by one.


Former vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan, like Saddam convicted
for crimes against humanity over the killing of 148 Shiites in
the 1980s, was hanged last month on the anniversary of the start
of the 2003 invasion.


Even ordinary Iraqis who despised Saddam were surprised by the
sudden December 30 hanging of the man who ruled Iraq with an iron
fist -- although thousands took to the streets to noisily
celebrate his downfall.


Footage of Saddam being taunted then executed was circulated on
the Internet, to the delight of many Shiite Iraqis who suffered
under his regime, but was widely seen internationally as a public
relations blunder.


The masked executioners and their sectarian chants were seen as
undermining the legitimacy of the process -- but this did not
unnerve the Iraqi government.


Calling Saddam's execution a "gift to Iraq," Bassem Ridha,
advisor to Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, said Iraq was
determined to hunt other followers of Saddam.


"Definitely this was historic for us. Nobody believed Saddam
would be executed. Now that it is done, it has given us a boost,
courage despite the mistakes we made," he told AFP.


Barzan Ibrahim Hassan al-Tikriti, a half-brother and former chief
of the dreaded Mukhabarat intelligence service, followed Saddam
to the gallows on January 15. His head was ripped from his body
by the rope.


Uday and Qusay, Saddam's two sons who were pillars of the regime,
were killed in a fierce gunbattle with US troops backed by air
power in the northern city of Mosul in July 2003.


All four have been buried in their home village of Awjah near
Tikrit, along with Awad Ahmed al-Bandar, the executed chief judge
of Saddam's disbanded Revolutionary Court.


Days ahead of the anniversary of the fall of Saddam's regime on
April 9, 2003, prosecutors on Monday demanded death in the
Kurdish genocide trial of Ali Hassan al-Majid, also known as
"Chemical Ali."


Saddam cousin Majid served as his enforcer against Iraq's now
dominant Shiites and Kurds and acquired his nickname after
allegedly using chemical gas bombs against the Kurdish people
during the 1988 military campaign.


A defiant Majid has been appearing in court with a copy of the
Koran holy book, which Saddam had also carried almost up to the
gallows, and sits in the same front row seat that had been used
by Iraq's fallen leader.


Among those closest to Saddam's seat of power only Izzat Ibrahim
al-Duri, who has a 10-million-dollar bounty on his head, has
escaped capture, amid frequent unconfirmed reports of his death.


He was Saddam's number two in the decision-making Revolutionary
Command Council, having stood by his side ever since the 1968
coup that brought their Baath party to power.


It was in 1979 that Saddam, who would have turned 70 on April 28,
took over as president.


Former deputy prime minister Tareq Aziz, who represented the
acceptable face of Saddam's Iraq on the international scene,
appeared in court earlier this month to heap praise on the
executed dictator.


"I had the honour to work with the former regime and with the
hero Saddam Hussein," Aziz said from the witness stand in the
Anfal genocide trial. "He is the hero behind the unity of Iraq
and its sovereignty."


Aziz, who since surrendering to US troops in April 2003 has been
held near Baghdad international airport without being formally
charged, denied there had been any mass killings under Saddam.


Saddam's wife Sajida Khairallah Tulfah Hussein, and his eldest
daughter Raghad, are among the women and children in the former
ruler's family who fled abroad before the US occupation, and
remain on a US wanted list.


And Iraq's Shiite-led government is determined to continue
chasing Saddam's remaining aides.

