

England head into Sunday's Super Eights clash with defending
champions Australia knowing defeat will deal a huge blow to their
hopes of reaching the World Cup semi-finals.


They could lose to their oldest foes at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium and still make it through to the last four.


But they would need to win their remaining matches against
Bangladesh, South Africa and hosts West Indies while hoping other
results elsewhere went their way.


Australia have been in dominating form at this World Cup, winning
all five of their matches and are still to be dismissed for under
300 as they pursue an unprecedented third straight title.


Yet for all their lacklustre displays in the Caribbean so far,
there is evidence that there is no side England would rather be
playing in their current position than Australia.


After their recent 5-0 Ashes trouncing, their tour of Australia
appeared in a far more desperate state than their campaign does
now.


England, thanks to the batting of Paul Collingwood, rallied with
one-day wins over New Zealand and Australia that saw them achieve
a stunning 2-0 triumph over Ricky Ponting's men to win the CB
series.


That England respond well to the challenge of playing classy
opponents when in trouble was evident in Wednesday's dramatic
two-run defeat by Sri Lanka where their bowling attack restricted
the 1996 champions to 235 all out.


"Every game for them (England) is a knockout game and that puts
them on the razor's edge," said Australia coach John Buchanan,
who believes a victory for his side will "virtually eliminate"
England.


"Any side that's playing for its life, understands fairly well
what it has to do."


Yet the plain fact is that, despite Ravi Bopara's gutsy 52
against Sri Lanka, England lost when the all-rounder was bowled
off the last ball by Dilhara Fernando.


Sri Lanka had found a match-winner just when they needed one -
England, who lost a warm-up match against Australia, hadn't
quite.


England's top order have failed to give the team a solid platform
at this World Cup and that could see opener Andrew Strauss
recalled in place of Middlesex teammate Ed Joyce this weekend
even though he hasn't played a match since the Australia tour.


Opener Vaughan said he and all-rounder Andrew Flintoff, who've
each yet to make a telling contribution with the bat, were
desperate for runs.


"He's like me, he wants a score for the team," said the skipper.


And Vaughan said it was vital new-ball duo James Anderson and
Sajid Mahmood repeated their effective display against Sri Lanka.


"They are going to have to be at their best again because Matthew
Hayden, Adam Gilchrist and Ricky Ponting are playing very well."


The only dilemma facing Australia appears to be who replaces
injured paceman Shane Watson, who has a calf problem.


But with fellow Queensland all-rounder Andrew Symonds - who has
been restricted by an arm injury - bowling his lively medium-
pacers during practice on Friday, it seems as if batsman Brad
Hodge will now take Watson's place


Sunday's fixture could be Glenn McGrath's final match against
England, with the 37-year-old Australia fast bowler due to retire
after the World Cup.


"It would be perfect, get a few wickets, knock them over, get the
two points and move on," said McGrath, who in 32 one-dayers
against England has taken 50 wickets at just over 23 apiece.


"But it's not going to be as easy as that," added McGrath, who
earlier this year broke the rib of England star batsman Kevin
Pietersen.


"They've played some pretty decent cricket against us in
Australia. But we've got over that and at this whole tournament,
no team has really got close to us so far."

