

On April 9, 2003, the world was stunned when iconic images of US
marines and Iraqis pulling down a statue of Saddam Hussein in
Baghdad's central Firdos Square flashed across television
screens.


The toppling of the statue was immediately seized on as
symbolising the overthrow of one of the world's most notorious
despots after a lightning 20-day advance on the Iraqi capital by
troops of the US-led coalition.


"When the Americans entered the city, I went to that square,"
remembers Mohammed Mater, 42, who works at the adjacent Palestine
Hotel.


"The statue was toppled by army tanks. When it fell, we ran to
it, hitting it with our shoes," one of the worst insults in Arab
culture.


"Saddam executed five members of my family... The fall of the
statue was the fall of the tyrant," he adds.


But four years later, some Iraqis say the symbol has turned into
a sign of the brutal violence that has devastated their country.
The square and its surroundings have changed dramatically since
the launch of the invasion in March 2003.


Instead of the statue, is a sculpture representing "freedom"
which passers by complain is green and ugly.


"The sculpture of freedom has no meaning," says Nabil Ahmed, who
owns a nearby barber's salon.


"It does not reflect reality. One lives here in constant
insecurity. Freedom has no meaning without safety. The situation
has gone from bad to worse."


Customer Qusay Taha agrees: "When I see it, I see sadness and
desperation," he says as he gets a shave.


"Today there is nobody around except American soldiers who take
photographs as they go by."


Nearby buildings show signs of bomb damage. Walls are pockmarked
by repeated rocket and mortar fire.


Firdos itself is protected by a number of police checkpoints and
concrete barriers which make access difficult.


A sad Taha remembers Saddam's execution by the US-backed Iraqi
government on December 30, unhappy with the fate dealt out to a
man who became a hero to many Arabs for firing Scud missiles at
Israel during the 1991 Gulf War.


"I was unhappy. I am a Palestinian. I know what occupation is,"
he says.


Taha has no nostalgia either as he remembers the toppling of
Saddam's statue.


"Today we are disgusted by what happened that day," he says. "The
situation today is a hundred times worse. It's not as if most
Iraqis danced in this square that day anyway."


Taha insists that television pictures of the statue coming down
on April 9, 2003 have given a misleading impression of the number
of people taking part as there were no wide shots of the square,
only close-ups of the participants.


Mona Mahmud, a 46-year-old mother of two who lives nearby,
remembers watching the television footage in Syria where she fled
to escape the invasion.


"We were happy. At that time we thought everything would get
better. In fact, the opposite has happened. There is this
insecurity. Today, when I look at the statue, I feel overwhelmed
by sadness," she says.


For many, the fall of the statue has come to symbolise less the
end of the former regime than the start of a foreign
"occupation."


"The Americans must leave, they are responsible for the situation
today. If they go, the situation will become stable in one or two
months," believes Mohamed Ali, another employee of the Palestine
Hotel.


Another of the barbers working in the shop, who gives his name
only as Qais, says: "Yes, at the beginning, when we saw the
statue falling, we were happy. The country was liberated.


"We thought the fall of the regime would bring freedom,
reconstruction but as the days passed we saw it was lies. This
new statue, is of injustice, inequality. The fall of the statue
is now the broken dreams of Iraqis."

