

Voters went to the polls under tight security Saturday in India's
largest state Uttar Pradesh, with 50 million people expected to
cast ballots for 403 seats during the month-long elections.


Voters will choose among parties headed by colourful characters,
including a former wrestler and a woman from India's untouchable
classes, both with corruption allegations hanging over their
heads.


More than 50,000 paramilitary forces were dispatched to polling
sites in the 62 constituencies voting, and a ban on vehicles was
in effect on the first of seven staggered voting days.


Police were also placed at polling sites in the state's largest
city, Kanpur, a former mill town of 2.7 million that is studded
with gun shops.


"This is huge," senior Kanpur police officer Javeed Ahmed told
AFP Friday.


"The booths themselves are being manned by central forces and
outside we'll be working, which includes getting people queued
up."


An election worker who had gone to the Kanpur Polytechnic to pick
up electronic voting machines for his polling site expressed
satisfaction with the arrangements.


"This time they have brought in outside forces," said
schoolteacher Raj Kumar Agnihotri.


"In the past they had police officers with sticks. How can sticks
prevent booth capturing?"


The national Election Commission appears to have gone to pains to
ensure clean elections in the state, where reports of ballots
being stuffed at gunpoint were common in past elections.


"I have never seen an atmosphere like this," said Sukheep Singh,
28, who plans to remain in her home until voting ends.


Travel to the districts voting was curtailed from Friday evening
and shops were closed Saturday.


"It is not an easy job to conduct elections in a state where
criminals and mafia lords also vie for political power," the
state's chief electoral officer, A.K. Bishnoi, told AFP in state
capital Lucknow this week.


A third of the candidates of the two top parties in the state
face criminal charges, the Association for Democratic Reforms
election watchdog has said.


Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has begged voters to keep him
in power after his chief rival, Mayawati Kumari, who heads the
Bahujan Samaj Party swore to prosecute him on corruption charges
if she was elected.


"Do you want me to go to jail or do you want me to work?" asked
Yadav, a former wrestler whose Samajwadi Party is supported by
his own Yadav caste and Muslims, at a rally Monday.


"Vote me in to power. Otherwise I will go to jail."


The feisty Mayawati, who rose to power with the support of
Dalits, as untouchables are now known, is also being investigated
for corruption.


Murderers, rural bandits and gun molls are among those with their
hats in the ring.


In the run-up to the elections, local residents were asked to
deposit their weapons with one of Kanpur's scores of gun shops.


"We have about 200 guns in our deposit," Afzal Alam, owner of a
gun shop on historic Meston Road, said.


Crime has gone up and more and more people come to buy guns for
self-protection, Alam said, though arms sales have been
officially halted until votes are counted on May 11.


Yadav's opponents blame the current government for being weak on
crime in general.

