

The White House on Friday condemned as "unfortunate and extremely
disappointing" any mistreatment by Iran of British naval
personnel held captive by Tehran for roughly two weeks.


"What the sailors said this morning is unfortunate and extremely
disappointing if they were treated inappropriately in any way,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


"If what they described is accurate, and I have no reason to
believe it is not, if what they described is accurate then that
would not seem to be appropriate behavior and action," said
Johndroe.


The 15 British sailors and marines held by Iran told Friday how
they were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as part of
"psychological" intimidation during their detention.


A day after their return to Britain, the group said they feared
for their lives if they resisted and were threatened with seven
years in jail if they did not confess to being in Iranian waters.


"The British government will be undertaking a full investigation
of the entire incident," Johndroe said as US President George W.
Bush prepared to celebrate Easter on his Texas ranch.


The spokesman appeared to distance the White House from comments
by the US chief of Naval Operations, US Admiral Michael Mullen,
who said Thursday that US military personnel would have fought
the Iranians rather than be taken captive.


"My expectation is that American sailors are never seized in a
situation like that," Mullen told CNN television.


"Individuals and units are guided by the right of self-defense,
they don't have to ask permission to take action to protect
themselves," he said. "They go into operations like this, and
missions like this, with that understanding."


Asked whether those comments reflected standing orders to US
personnel operating in the Gulf, Johndroe referred questions
about the rules of engagement to the Pentagon.


But "I would just say, in general, as President Bush has said, we
are not seeking a confrontation with the Iranians," Johndroe told
reporters.


"We and the rest of the international community are seeking their
compliance with UN Security Council resolutions" calling for a
freeze of Iran's uranium enrichment and reprocessing, the
spokesman said.


"That is the multilateral diplomatic approach that we are taking
right now," he said.

