

Australia's environment minister on Saturday said the findings of
a key UN report on global climate change were "not new" and
highlighted why the world needed to move beyond the Kyoto
Protocol.


Malcolm Turnbull also downplayed the UN Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC)'s warning that Australia's Great Barrier
Reef could die within 20 years, saying the world's largest living
organism was unlikely to disappear.


The landmark report warned that climate change would inflict
damage on every continent, hitting poor countries hardest and
threatening nearly a third of the world's species with
extinction.


But Turnbull, whose government is one of only two in the
developed world that have refused to ratify the Kyoto pact on
climate change, insisted that while the report's findings were
important, they were not new.


"The science in this report is important but it is not new,"
Turnbull said in a statement, explaining that Australia's water
policies already reflected the findings of the report.


"It brings together existing scientific research, including the
Australian research funded by the government...which has
underpinned our climate change policy response over the last
decade," he said.


Turnbull said the report made it clear that climate change is a
global challenge that needs to be addressed on a global scale,
requiring developing nations such as China and India to sign up
to any workable international pacts.


"The IPCC report should serve as a reminder to all of us that the
world needs to move beyond the Kyoto Protocol to find real,
global solutions to climate change," he said.


The government of Prime Minister John Howard, which has been in
power for 11 years, has refused to ratify the Kyoto accord on
reducing greenhouse emissions, prompting critics here to accuse
it of holding back the rest of the world.


The prime minister insisted until late last year that there was
little evidence of global warming, before his government shifted
stance as the country was severely battered by drought that is
hitting farmers hard in an election year.


Turnbull conceded that global warming was a "major threat" to the
Great Barrier Reef, a UN world heritage site, but that its
extinction was at the extreme end of any likely scenarios.


"We are working very hard and have done...to ensure, that of all
the reefs in the world, the Great Barrier Reef will have the
greatest prospect of resiliently dealing with the impact of
climate change," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"I think disappear is probably too strong, but certainly we
recognise that increased bleaching will follow a continuous
warming of the ocean temperatures," he said.


The opposition Labor Party's spokesman on the environment, former
Midnight Oil frontman Peter Garrett, said he was shocked at
Turnbull's complacency over the IPCC report, calling Turnbull's
claim it said nothing new "extraordinary".


"This very important UN report absolutely shreds the credibility
of the Howard government on climate change," Garrett told
reporters in Sydney.


"It's clear from what this report tells us that we need to act
urgently and we need to act now -- something the Howard
government and the environment minister still refuse to
acknowledge."

