

Everton bounced back from conceding an early goal against
visitors Fulham with a dominant display which ended in a deserved
4-1 win for the Merseysiders on Friday.


Ahead of Saturday's remaining fixtures the result moved David
Moyes' side up two places to fifth in the Premiership and in
sight of European football next season.


Fulham, who were largely outclassed in a pulsating encounter
despite taking an early lead through Carlos Bocanegra, went one
place in the other direction dropping to 15th.


Chris Coleman's side are only four points better off than third-
from-bottom Sheffield United and could soon find themselves
fighting relegation.


Fellow Londoners Charlton, however, moved out of the bottom three
for the first time since September when they grabbed a precious
point from a scoreless draw at Manchester City.


City created the best chances of a largely forgettable encounter
but failed to capitalise.


Emile Mpenza and Joey Barton went close before the interval but
it was Nedum Onuoha who missed the best opportunity, nodding
tamely over from seven yards despite being totally unmarked.


Charlton then threatened to sneak a win 18 minutes from time when
Darren Bent crossed low to unmarked Chinese forward Zheng Zhi,
who lost out to a Onuoha sliding tackle before he could unleash
his shot.


Meanwhile, Fulham had a great start at Goodison Park when
Bocanegra struck the simplest of goals in the 22nd minute.


However, Everton went in for the break 3-1 ahead after Lee
Carsley side-footed a neat equaliser and Alan Stubbs rose to meet
a corner to head past flailing keeper Antii Niemi.


Everton's James Vaughan handed the hosts their third on the
stroke of half-time, and another teenager, Victor Anichebe,
rifled home the fourth soon after coming on as a second-half
substitute.


Moyes later indicated that European football was now in their
sights.


But the Scot offered a word of consolation to under-pressure
Fulham manager Coleman.


"All credit to Fulham. They made it difficult in the second half,
and it was only when we got the fourth goal that we began to feel
comfortable," said Moyes.

