

India's Jeev Milkha Singh hopes his successful run at the Masters
Tournament will lift the sporting gloom in his native country
following a dismal campaign by its cricket team in the World Cup.


The Asian Tour number one ensured a memorable Masters debut when
he easily made the halfway cut with a three-over-par 75 in a
tough second round.


With a two-day score of 147, Singh was in the top-20 with the
second round still in progress.


Singh faced a frustrating day on the treacherous greens at
Augusta National, three-putting for bogeys on four occasions but
a superb birdie on the 18th hole and a par save on 17 saw him
walk off the course with a big smile on his face.


Singh's impressive run also ensured he was three-for-three in the
Majors after playing in all four rounds of the US Open in 2002
and last season. Asia was celebrating as another debutant Yang
Yong-Eun of Korea carded a 74 for a five- over total which should
safely move him into the weekend play.


"I'm enjoying every bit of it," said Singh, the first Indian to
play at the Masters.


"In between, you don't enjoy it when you make those three putts
and balls roll off the green but it's part of learning and I've
got to stay patient.


"It's a great feeling as it's my first time coming out to the
Masters. Obviously I was very nervous but I think I've handled
myself well and making the cut, half the battle is over. I've got
two more days to see what I can do."


The 35-year-old, who won four times last year and claimed the
Asian Tour's Order of Merit in a dream season, endured a chilly
start to the round and struggled to find his rhythm on the
greens.


He turned in 37 with three bogeys against two bogeys but with a
cold putter, he dropped further shots on the 10th, 14th and 16th
with three putts.


A huge par save on 17 from 12 feet and a 10-foot birdie
conversion on the last hole after a pin-point nine iron approach
salvaged his day.


"Birdieing the last hole leaves a better taste in my mouth. I
didn't have the speed on the greens today, sometimes I hit it too
hard and sometimes I left them short. I guess I have to work on
my putting.


Singh hopes that his successful run at the Masters, the year's
first Major, will bring back some cheer to Indian sporting fans
who have been disappointed with the cricket team's early exit at
the World Cup in the Caribbean.


He also hopes his performance will further inspire India's other
golfing stalwarts to shoot for the stars.


"I'm not too happy with India's exit in the World Cup but that's
sport. I hope this will be good for golf in India," he said.


"It's good that I have made the cut. There are a lot of good guys
coming out from India and hopefully when they see this they will
be encouraged and say if Jeev can do it, why not us," said Singh.


Yang, famed for beating Tiger Woods in the HSBC Champions in
Shanghai last November, bounced back from a poor mid-round where
he dropped four shots to ensure his place in the last two rounds.


He birdied the 13th, 14th and 18th and dropped another shot on
17.


"The greens were faster today. It was a lot colder today and my
ball wasn't going as far as I wanted to. It was a tough day,"
said Yang.


"This feels good, knowing that I'm in the weekend rounds.
Hopefully I can shoot under par in the remaining two rounds and
have a good finish at the Masters," said Yang.

