

Bird flu killed a 29-year-old man in Indonesia after he came into
contact with dead chickens, taking the country's human death toll
from the disease to 74, the health ministry said Saturday.


"The patient had contact with a large number of dead chickens
between March 19 and 20," a spokesman from the ministry's bird
flu information centre said.


The government announced Friday that fatalities had risen to 74.


Most human infections have occurred after contact with sick
birds. But scientists fear the deadly H5N1 strain could mutate
and become easily transmissible among people, triggering a
devastating human pandemic.


The 29-year-old man was the 94th person infected by the disease
in Indonesia, the country worst hit by the virus. He died on
Thursday in Solo, about 500 kilometres (310 miles) from the
capital, Jakarta.


The government had hoped to eradicate bird flu deaths in 2007,
but instead at least 16 people have perished after contracting
the virus.


People who contract the disease in Indonesia are very likely to
die, as its bird flu fatality rate is nearly 79 percent.


The government said late Friday that Indonesia had to intensify
the fight against bird flu after surpassing Vietnam as the nation
with the highest number of confirmed human infections.


"We had hoped that this day would never come," said Bayu
Krisnamurthi, the chief executive of the National Committee for
Avian Influenza Control and Pandemic Preparedness.


"The government, along with UN agencies, NGOs and other groups
have been working throughout the country to try to stop the
spread of the virus and stop it from infecting people, but it is
an enormous task," he said in a statement.


A panel of experts from the committee judged the virus had yet to
mutate into a form easily spread among people, the statement
said, but work on a national pandemic response was underway.


The World Health Organisation says the deadly H5N1 strain has
infected 288 people and killed 170 of them, mostly in Southeast
Asia, since 2003.


Past flu pandemics have caused a vast number of deaths. One in
1918, just after the end of World War I, killed at least 20
million people worldwide.

