

India's outgoing coach Greg Chappell on Saturday slammed the
unprofessional set up in the country, saying "if you want to be
like Australia, you can't run your cricket like Zimbabwe."


The former Australian captain, who quit as India coach after the
team's first round exit in the World Cup, said long-term planning
was needed to take India to the next level in international
cricket.


"The Indians must adopt a 10-year plan, spelling out the aims and
objectives and go about attaining those goals in a professional
manner," Chappell, 58, told the Times of India in an interview.


"Any half measures or cosmetic changes at this stage would be
like putting Band- Aid on cancer. If you want to be like
Australia, you can't run your cricket like Zimbabwe."


Chappell rued the team's first-round ouster in the World Cup
after India were stunned by Bangladesh and also lost to Sri Lanka
in the preliminary stage.


"I think we should have done much better in the West Indies with
the squad we had," he said.


"We batted poorly against Bangladesh, but we should have still
squeezed out a win. History says India's record in defending low
totals has been quite poor.


"We could have done with a few young legs, but I believe that we
still had the ammunition to at least reach the semis."


Chappell said he had enjoyed coaching India despite a
controversial two-year term in which he reportedly annoyed senior
players by his insistence on blooding young cricketers.


"As a coach, it was easily one of the most challenging
assignments one could ever hope to have," he said. "I have loved
every moment of it, planning, strategising, analysing... before
every tour or series.


"I don't want to get into (the) senior-junior issue again. Look,
as a player, you have to keep challenging yourself. When that
stops, it's time to do a quick reality check and take a few hard
decisions.


"I came here to do a job that I have done to the best of my
ability. I do not have any vested interests in Indian cricket. I
have briefed the Indian board about the issues facing Indian
cricket.


"One of them is youth development. It's up to the officials to
act in the best interests of the game in the country."


But Chappell also had high praise for senior cricketers,
including Sourav Ganguly, who was ousted as captain and later
thrown out of the team after a public spat with the Australian in
2005.


"He has practised most of what I had preached during the time he
was out of the side," Chappell said of Ganguly, who fought his
way back into the team for the Test series in South Africa in
December.


"Sourav has shown plenty of determination in winning his place
back. I hope he continues to work hard on his fitness and score
heavily for the team."


Chappell said Sachin Tendulkar, the world's most prolific one-day
batsman, should continue to bat down the order despite scoring
most of his world record 41 centuries as an opener.


"Opening is an easier option in one-day cricket," he said. "I
felt that the team would benefit immensely if Sachin came in at
number four, for he has the experience, technique and the talent
to milk the bowling in the middle overs."


Chappell also praised captain Rahul Dravid, saying he had the
"utmost respect for him both as a person and a player."


"It's not an easy task being the captain and also the side's best
batsman but Rahul has managed that brilliantly. He deserves more
credit and success."

