

Taliban rebels seized control of a district in the south of
Afghanistan Friday, officials said, as more than 1,000 ISAF and
Afghan soldiers attacked a Taliban stronghold.


The Taliban move came as a suicide bomber in a taxi killed six
people near the national parliament in Kabul.


President Hamid Karzai meanwhile said he had met with members of
the Taliban movement -- which is leading a deadly insurgency five
years after being toppled by US-led forces -- to bring
reconciliation to his country.


Karzai said Taliban representatives had been regularly meeting
with government bodies, adding: "I've had some Taliban coming to
speak to me as well, so this process has been there for a long
time."


But he ruled out talks with Taliban supremo Mullah Mohammad Omar,
a close ally of Al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden, or with foreign
militants.


Hours before he spoke, 100 Taliban militants overran Khak Afghan
district in the troubled Zabul province, the latest of several
rebel attempts to exert control in parts of southern and western
Afghanistan.


Police made a "tactical" withdrawal after insurgents attacked the
headquarters of the mountainous district from several directions
at once, said Ghulam Shah Alikhil, a spokesmen for the provincial
governor.


There were no immediate plans in place to retake the area, he
said.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF),
which has tens of thousands of troops in Afghanistan, including
US and Romanian soldiers in Zabul, said it was checking the
information.


The Taliban have also occupied other districts in Afghanistan
this year. In most cases, the rebels have been driven out after a
short time.


As part of the ISAF "Operation Achilles" to root out Taliban in
the south of Afghanistan, mainly Helmand, more than a 1,000
British, American, Dutch, Canadian, Danish, Estonian and Afghan
troops launched an assault on positions close the district of
Sangin Wednesday, according to an ISAF statement Friday.


"Over the course of the last two days, we have reduced the
enemy's ability to destabilise the government of Afghanistan,"
said Dutch Major General Ton van Loon.


"By doing so we are one step closer to creating a secure, stable
and prosperous environment in which reconstruction and
development can take place."


In Kabul, a suicide bomber struck a few hundred metres (yards)
from the parliament building killing five people including a
policeman, the city's criminal investigation police chief General
Alishah Paktiawal told AFP.


"It was a suicide bombing... The bomber was driving a yellow and
white taxi," Paktiawal said. He said it was unclear if the
attacker was targeting parliament but added that the device may
have exploded prematurely.


The powerful blast was the third suicide attack in the heavily-
secured capital this year. Such bombings have become common in
insurgency-hit southern Afghanistan but have previously been rare
in Kabul.


Police also said they were still searching for two missing French
aid workers and their three Afghan colleagues after the Taliban
said its fighters had kidnapped them on Tuesday in southwestern
Nimroz province.


The two French nationals are from the organisation Terre
d'Enfance (A World for Our Children).


Karzai however pledged to make no more hostage deals, saying that
one he made last month to free an Italian journalist was because
the Italian government -- which has 1,800 troops in Afghanistan
-- could have collapsed.


Karzai ordered the release of five Taliban prisoners, including
some high- profile figures, in March in the controversial trade
which resulted in the freedom of kidnapped Italian reporter
Daniele Mastrogiacomo.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
he said. "No more deals with no one and with no other country."


Separately on Friday the Taliban killed five security guards in
an attack on a construction company working on a highway near
Qalat, the capital of Zabul province, officials said.

