

The United States said Friday it has found a formula to return
allegedly illicit funds frozen in an Asian bank to North Korea,
which could clear the way for Pyongyang to begin dismantling its
nuclear weapons arsenal.


"We believe that we have identified a way to do that, but at this
point the US does not have an active role in doing that," US
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


He spoke as US Treasury officials left Beijing for home after 13
days of talks to remove technical hurdles for the release of 25
million dollars from Macau- based Banco Delta Asia (BDA).


They identified "the technical pathway by which these funds may
be returned" consistent with a February 13 deal, in which
Pyongyang agreed to shut down its key nuclear facility in 60 days
under an aid-for-disarmament package, he said.


North Korea has refused to close the Yongbyon nuclear reactor and
refused to return to multilateral nuclear talks until it received
the frozen money.


In an indication that the six-party talks among the United
States, China, the two Koreas, Russia and Japan would be
reconvened soon, McCormack said chief US nuclear envoy
Christopher Hill would travel to Northeast Asian capitals
beginning this weekend.


Hill was to leave Washington Sunday for Tokyo, and later head to
Seoul and Beijing.


McCormack pointed out that the ball was now in the court of the
Macau regulatory authorities, in effecting the transfer of the
money from BDA to North Korea.


"The Macanese authorities are the operative regulatory
authorities in this case. It's not the US that is holding these
funds," he said.


The Monetary Authority of Macau, a Chinese territory, froze the
funds after Washington accused the BDA of handling illicit North
Korean funds linked to money laundering, drug trafficking and
counterfeit currency.


UN Treasury spokeswoman Molly Millerwise told AFP Friday that the
technical issues over the fund transfer were ironed out after
"constructive discussions" in Beijing and Macau with Chinese,
Macanese and North Korean officials.


"Based on progress achieved, the US government has communicated
its support for release of all funds (and) we have worked with
all parties to ensure this is consistent with our mutual domestic
and international obligations regarding safeguarding the world's
financial system," she explained.


Millerwise said Washington was prepared to assist the Macanese
authorities in their efforts "to release the funds," which
Pyongyang assured would be used for "humanitarian purposes" only.


It is not know how the funds would be "sanitized" and returned to
North Korea although news reports have said that a Hong Kong bank
would be used as the conduit.


"You can talk to the Macanese about that," McCormack said when
asked about any Hong Kong bank role in the fund transfer.


A key reason for the delay in resolving the problem was the
apparent refusal by the state-owned Bank of China to be the
channel for the fund transfer for fear its credit rating would be
affected.


The six-party talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the
North's nuclear weapons ambitions. But they have been plagued by
disputes, amid which Pyongyang shocked the world by conducting
its first atomic test in October.


Under the February 13 accord, North Korea agreed to close and
seal the Yongbyon plutonium reactor -- long suspected to be the
center of its nuclear program -- within 60 days and admit UN
nuclear inspectors in return for 50,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil.


It also requires the United States, which is still technically at
war with North Korea after their 1950-1953 conflict, to consider
removing Pyongyang from its list of state sponsors of terrorism
as they move towards full diplomatic ties.


McCormack said Hill would discuss a "timeline" for the second
phase of North Korea's denuclearization program with his Chinese,
Japanese and South Korean counterparts.


"He is going to be talking about the implementation of February
13 agreement, various other aspects of it that don't deal with
cryptic banking matters ... and I am sure he will touch on the
timeline for the next phase," the spokesman said.

