

Pirates have released a UN-chartered cargo ship and an Indian
vessel they captured in the unpatrolled waters off the coast of
Somalia, a maritime official said Saturday.


Andrew Mwangura of the Seafarers' Assistance Programme said the
hijackers freed the MV Rozen on Friday, more than a month after
it was seized after delivering relief food shipped by the UN
World Food Programme.


"Information reaching us indicates that MV Rozen has been
released and it is expected in Mombasa anytime," Mwangura told
AFP. "It was released yesterday. We are told that the crew is
fine."


Mwangura added that the hijackers also released the MV
Nimatullah, an Indian cargo vessel seized April 1 as it anchored
at Mogadishu port, and its 14-member crew.


"We also have information that MV Nimatullah has been released.
It was also released yesterday."


The hijackers forced the MV Nimatullah to sail to waters off
northeastern Somalia where it had been held since the weekend.


The 800-tonne ship was ferrying general household goods to
Mogadishu, where Ethiopian forces have been battling local clan
militia opposed to their presence in the war-torn capital.


In late February, gunmen captured the UN-chartered Rozen and held
it near Somalia's semi-autonomous region of Puntland to the north
with its six-man crew.


The WFP said it welcomed the release of the ship.


"The WFP welcomes the release of the hijacked vessel MV Rozen and
its crew," the agency said in a statement.


"The threat of piracy is still very much alive in Somali waters
and WFP urges the TFG (Transitional Federal Government) and the
Puntland authorities to curb these menaces," said Peter Goossens,
WFP's director for Somalia.


Mwangura, however, said that the ships could once more fall prey
to pirates who are suspected to be waiting for their release.


"We also have information that a group of hijackers are waiting
to capture the ships after they are released," he told AFP by
telephone from the Kenya port town of Mombasa.


The unpatrolled waters off the 3,700-kilometer (2,300-mile)
Somali coastline saw scores of pirate attacks between March 2005
and June last year, but these stopped during six months of strict
Islamist rule of south and central Somalia.


On Tuesday, another cargo ship escaped seizure at Mogadishu port
when gunmen in speed boats opened fire at the UAE-registered
vessel, MV Nishan.


Somalia has lacked an effective central governemnt since the
ouster of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre that touched off a
bloody power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare that
has defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional
government in Somalia.

