

Felipe Massa took pole position for Ferrari on Saturday for the
Malaysian Grand Prix and predicted a tough race on Sunday in
sauna-like conditions.


The 25-year-old Brazilian produced a flawless last-gasp lap in
the final seconds of a tense qualifying session on the Sepang
circuit to finish in pole position, the fourth of his career.


Massa said he was desperate to win on Sunday to kick-start his
season after suffering an engine failure in the season-opening
Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne.


"After what happened to me in the last race, this makes me very
happy," he said. "I had a very big fight with Fernando (Alonso)
here, but I did a great lap and I am happy with that.


"I know it is going to be a very tough race, physically for us,
but also for the cars. It is very hot and very humid. For us,
inside the car, it is going to be like going racing inside a
sauna," he said.


Massa clocked a best lap in one minute and 35.043 seconds in the
final part of the three-part session to claim the prime starting
position.


Massa wound up narrowly ahead of defending champion Alsono of
Spain in a McLaren Mercedes-Benz with Ferrari team-mate Kimi
Raikkonen of Finland taking third place just ahead of British
tyro Lewis Hamilton in the second McLaren.


This group of four drivers from the two outstanding teams were
half a second clear of fifth placed German Nick Heidfeld in a BMW
Sauber and German-born Nico Rosberg in a Williams Toyota.


Alonso said he was happy to be on the front row again for the
second successive race and felt the McLaren team had made enough
progress since the last race to encourage their hopes.


But, he admitted, Ferrari remained the team to beat.


"I am happy with my set-up now and the improvements all worked so
I feel we are at 100 percent of our potential for this race.
Fingers crossed - I think we can do okay.


"But also I think you have to be realistic and say Ferrari have
been fastest over the long runs and were strong in Melbourne and
here again too."


Poland's Robert Kubica was seventh fastest in the second BMW and
Italian Jarno Trulli eighth for Toyota on a disappointing day for
the defending constructors champions Renault whose cars failed to
qualify in the top ten.


The final part of the session and the fight for pole was an
intense affair, and involved both Ferrari and both McLaren
drivers, each team pushing to the final seconds in a bid to gain
an advantage for the start of Sunday's race.


The first part of the qualifying session began in very hot and
overcast conditions that taxed both the drivers and their cars.


The track temperature was 45 degrees Celsius and the air
temperature was 34. The humidity level was 50 per cent.


Ferrari were swiftly into their stride and running fastest after
three laps, but that was as much because the two McLaren
Mercedes-Benz drivers remained in the shade longer before
venturing outside.


Almost immediately, with his first run of laps, 22-year-old new
boy Hamilton topped the times. His success was also short-lived,
however, as he was soon overhauled by his McLaren team-mate,
defending double world champion Alonso, who clocked 1:34.092 to
take control.


That left the two McLarens ahead of the two Ferraris. The two BMW
Sauber drivers of Poland's Kubica and Germany's Heidfeld,
meanwhile, were in trouble as they had not clocked a lap time.


This position was rectified when both men joined the fray and
clocked decent times, Kubica splitting the Ferraris, leaving only
Brazilian Rubens Barrichello in his Honda to record a lap time,
which he did in the final seconds.


Unfortunately, for the veteran, it was not quick enough to save
him from missing the first cut and, along with the five other
slowest drivers, failing to progress in the session.


Austrian Alex Wurz was also eliminated after a poor lap for
Williams Toyota along with Torro Rosso's American Scott Speed,
Briton Anthony Davidson of Super Aguri and the two Spyker drivers
Dutchman Christijan Albers and German Adrian Sutil.

