

Justices on the Supreme Court of the Navajo Nation wear black
robes like at any US court, but they are tasked with balancing
modern law with the ancient traditions of the largest of the
Native American groups.


The Navajo Nation, an autonomous and sovereign government that
has jurisdiction over sprawling reservations and 300,000 people
in the western United States, has legal jurisdiction over tribal
affairs.


But as a case heard this week in Washington demonstrates,
pursuing Navajo justice is a perennial tug of war between modern
law and tribal traditions that predate the arrival of the
European "white men."


To educate law students and the general public about Navajo
affairs, the tribe's Supreme Court periodically tries its cases
far away from the nation's reservations.


This week they brought the case of Joe v. Black to the Washington
College of Law at American University in the US capital.


The three black-robed justices -- two men and a woman -- were
asked to sort out a conflict between modern statutory law and the
Navajo tribal custom of "nalyee," which requires that victims of
an offense be compensated to clear up hard feelings.


In the courtroom there is no US flag in view, only the banner of
the Navajo Nation with a rainbow arcing over the tribal lands. It
hangs behind Chief Justice Herb Yazzie, a man with a dusky face
and a long braid of black hair.


The case the justices hear goes back to a night in June 2002. On
a highway in the western desert of Utah, on Navajo tribal lands,
a car rammed a horse. The driver died in the accident, but the
wounded car passenger sued for damages.


The victim failed to win her case against the driver's insurance
company, failed against the state of Utah, and failed against the
Navajo Nation, who she argued was guilty of allowing a horse on
the road.


She finally won a case against the horse's owner, but the owner
had little money or property and would likely never be able to
pay up the hundreds of thousands of dollars the court ordered him
to pay.


So the victim then turned to the holders of the land where the
horse was kept, a couple of modest means who did have an
insurance policy.


US federal and state law does not allow a plaintiff to repeatedly
sue for damages. But nalyee, an unwritten Navajo tradition,
maintains that in one way or another, all victims deserve some
compensation so there are no hard feelings.


A lower tribal court rejected the victim's claim, but the Navajo
supreme court took up the case and saw it as a chance to
reconcile the two legal approaches. After arguments were heard in
Washington, it will hand down its verdict in a few months.


"For us, the law is not about having your argument win over, but
how you are going to peacefully coexist," Yazzie said, explaining
the Navajo approach to the autonomous court system established in
1959.


"We think the Navajo customs and values are very fair. Our
mission is to integrate our traditional values and concepts in
the system imposed by the US government," said Justice Lorene
Ferguson.

