

Israel launched an air strike against suspected Gaza militants
Saturday, killing one and wounding two, as it made good on
threats to get tough over persistent rocket fire from the
territory.


Palestinian medics named the dead man as Fuad Mauf, 22, an
activist of the leftist Democratic Front for the Liberation of
Palestine.


Witnesses had earlier said that the militants targeted in the
raid belonged to two ultra-hardline factions -- Islamic Jihad and
the Popular Resistance Committees.


They said the helicopters opened fire on an area east of the
Jabaliya refugee camp while several Israeli tanks advanced a few
metres (yards) into Gaza.


The Israeli military confirmed the air raid but denied any ground
incursion into the territory.


"The helicopters opened fire after suspect movements near the
security barrier (between Israel and the Gaza Strip) to the east
of Jabaliya," an army spokesman said.


"Some armed men were preparing to plant a bomb near the security
barrier."


On Wednesday, Israeli troops entered the Gaza Strip in the first
incursion since a November ceasefire, killing one Palestinian
militant.


Israel withdrew all its troops from the territory in November as
part of a truce with militants under which they undertook to halt
rocket fire.


But some militant groups have refused to abide by the ceasefire
deal and have since fired 155 rockets at Israel, according to the
army. In December rocket fire wounded two teenagers in the
Israeli town of Sderot.


On March 28, Israel launched its first strike against a militant
rocket team in Gaza since the truce, but no soldiers entered the
territory during the strike.


Last Sunday, Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz ordered troops
to take "decisive action" against militants and rocket fire.


"I think difficult questions are being posed in regard to the
ceasefire, which is why we are preparing ourselves for any
scenario," he told army radio the following day.


Chief of staff Lieutenant General Gabi Ashkenazi said last month
that Israel would have to confront what he called the
strengthening of Gaza militant groups amid reports of persistent
weapons smuggling from Egypt into the coastal strip.

