

The Waikato Chiefs kept their slim Super 14 semi-final hopes
alive with a 38-34 win over the Otago Highlanders in a 10-try
scoring bonanza here Saturday.


The rare daylight match recalled the high-scoring early days of
the Super competition with each side running in five tries. The
unerring boot of Chiefs flyhalf Stephen Donald made the
difference after he succeeded with all five conversion attempts.


Both sides were desperate to keep their semi-final chances alive
and the Chiefs made their intentions clear by selecting All Black
winger Sitiveni Sivivatu -- not renowned for his defensive
prowess -- at fullback.


He repaid the selection with two tries and winger Lelia Masaga
also scored a pair, with inside centre Niva Ta'auso touching down
the first.


The Highlanders are not one of the best attacking sides in the
competition but they made the most of the good conditions in New
Zealand's tourism capital with touchdowns from Lucky Mulipola,
Anton Oliver, Viliame Waqaseduadua, Matt Saunders and Toby
Moreland.


Both sides threw caution to the wind and were guilty of defensive
lapses but the Highlanders missed 27 tackles to the Chiefs' 12 in
a telling statistic.


"You could tell out there that for both sides it was do or die
for their season and we didn't come out on top," Highlanders
skipper Craig Newby said afterwards.


"But I guess for the spectators it was a good game."


The Highlanders' fortunes were badly dented within six minutes
when All Black lock James Ryan had to be stretchered from the
field with a medial ligament injury. Newby and halfback Jimmy
Cowan were also forced from the field later with injuries.


They dominated early possession but fortunes became more even as
the spell progressed as the sides traded two tries apiece before
half-time.


The Highlanders had some success in testing the Chiefs defence
with high bombs and a fumbled take by Chiefs winger Roy
Kinikinilau gifted a rare try to All Blacks veteran hooker
Oliver.


The Chiefs went into the break with a slim 17-15 lead and kept in
front through most of the second spell.


A try by Highlanders replacement back Toby Morland gave the
Highlanders a three- point advantage with 16 minutes to play but
Masaga hit back for the Chiefs soon after and they were able to
hang on in the frantic final minutes.

