

As teams set off from Nepal's capital to begin acclimatising for
the main Everest climbing season in May, one group already knows
they have what it takes to reach the top of the world.


The seven-member "Super Sherpa" team already have 47 successful
summits of the world's tallest peak between them and are climbing
to increase awareness of the role of Sherpas in mountaineering.


While the term Sherpa refers to an ethnic group, nowadays the
term applies to all those who support Himalayan expeditions.


Appa Sherpa, one of the expedition's two leaders, has reached
Mount Everest's 8,848 metre (29,198 feet) summit 16 times, and if
successful again this year, will beat his own world record.


Second leader Lhapka Gelu Sherpa's feats are no less impressive
with a dozen successful summits, and in 2003, he briefly held the
world record for the fastest ascent of the mountain -- just under
11 hours.


This season's Everest summit attempts are still weeks away but
already teams of high-altitude climbing Sherpas are busy on the
mountain, undertaking intricate preparations needed for summit
attempts by fee-paying foreign climbers.


Kilometres (miles) of rope need to be laid out, dozens of ladders
to bridge crevasses and tons of bottled oxygen and other
equipment have to be carried up to the four sites between base
camp and the summit, all work for the Sherpas.


"Sherpas need to do everything for the expedition teams, from
cooking food to fixing ropes and setting camps," said 47-year-old
Appa who like most Sherpas began working as a porter in his
teens.


"Without Sherpa support it would be incredibly difficult to climb
the mountains," the world-beating mountaineer said.


In addition to the work, Sherpas often accompany foreign climbers
on their summit attempts and have been known to perform seemingly
superhuman feats to bring clients to safety.


Aside from seeking to highlight the role of Sherpas in
mountaineering, the expedition is aiming to raise cash for
schools in the Everest region.


At Everest base camp there is only half the oxygen there is at
sea level, while at the summit there is just a third, so Sherpas
need immense strength and stamina or the high-altitude work can
be deadly.


Last year, three Sherpas were killed -- one a good friend of Appa
and Lhapka -- in the Khumbu Icefall, a dangerous area at around
5,500 metres (18,000 feet) between base camp and camp one.


"Foreign climbers would only have to pass through the icefall
five or six times, but Sherpa guides and porters have to make the
trip through one of Everest's most dangerous zones more than 20
times carrying mountaineering gear," said 39 -year-old Lhapka.


You could be the most experienced climber in the world and still
be killed by an icefall, and the more times the trip is taken,
the higher the risk, Appa said.


Foreign climbers spend thousands of dollars trying to reach the
summit of Everest and people have different motivations for
risking their lives to get there, but for the Sherpas, the reason
for taking such huge risks is simple.


"Foreign climbers do it for adventure but most of the Sherpas do
it for bread and butter -- to support the family," said Appa.


The highland regions that are home to the Sherpas are
breathtakingly beautiful but also extremely harsh.


"We don't have many options in our region. We can't even grow
rice, only potatoes," said Appa.


With top ranking Sherpas commanding up to 7,000 dollars a season
-- a fortune in a country where annual income averages 240
dollars -- competition for jobs is fierce.


Around 300 high altitude climbing Sherpas will be working on
Everest this season.


Generally, porters and cooks who stay below base camp are paid
less than 10 dollars per day, but with limited employment
options, even this is a desirable career for many.


Some believe Everest should not play host to large numbers of
commercial clients who usually pay a minimum of 10,000 dollars to
expedition organisers.


The Sherpas see things differently.


"We would welcome more expeditions to come to Nepal because more
local people would get jobs as porters and guides. It would
create opportunities for families to earn money. They can sell
food and provide lodging," said Lhapka.


Despite being at the top of their profession, none of the
expedition leaders say they will encourage their children to
follow in their footsteps.


"I want to educate my kids and make them doctors and engineers.
They (the kids) don't want to climb mountains. They say every
time to me: 'Daddy don't go to the mountains,'" said Lhapka.

