

Iran used the only woman among 15 captured British naval
personnel as a "propaganda tool," keeping her isolated and
telling her she was the only one being held, the group said
Friday.


At a news conference here, Leading Seaman Faye Turney's
colleagues talked of their pride at the way the 26-year-old
conducted herself in the face of "special treatment" meted out to
her by their captors throughout their 13-day detention.


"The fact that she's a woman has been used as a propaganda tool
by Iran. This is deeply regrettable," they said in a joint
statement.


Turney was the most high-profile of the detainees. The nervous-
looking sailor featured in the first video clip of the captives
and was purported to have written three letters which were also
released.


In a question and answer session, Royal Marine Captain Chris Air
said the mother-of-one had been isolated soon after their capture
on March 23 in the northern Gulf, near the Shatt al-Arab waterway
dividing Iraq and Iran.


"Being an Islamic country, Faye was subjected to different rules
than we were," Air said.


"She was separated as soon as she arrived, and was told that her
colleagues had been flown home.


"She was told shortly afterwards that we had all been released.
She was under the impression for about four days that she was the
only one there.


"She was subject to quite a lot of stress that we don't know
about. She coped admirably, retaining a lot of dignity.


"Like all of us she has been exploited."


In the joint statement, the group said: "Throughout our ordeal we
have tried to remain very much as a team.


"No one individual should be singled out but we are now very
aware of the special treatment singled out to Faye Turney.


"Faye is a young mother and wife. She volunteered to join the
Royal Navy amd is very proud to continue to serve.


"She is a highly professional operator and we are incredibly
proud to have her as part of our team."


They said she was "coming to terms with what has happened to
her."


Three handwritten letters were attributed to her: one to her
parents, one to "Representative of the House of Commons" and one
"To British people."


The curious English and seemingly odd content led commentators to
wonder how much influence her captors had.


Turney, who is married to a Royal Navy petty officer, was not
present at the press conference.


Air said that returning home to her husband and three-year-old
daughter was "clearly a great relief" for her.

