

Ottawa is set to announce stricter limits on greenhouse gas
emissions following the release of a UN report that warned
climate change will have a grim impact this century, the
environment minister said Friday.


"In the coming weeks, for the first time in Canadian history, our
government will be announcing targets for mandatory reductions of
greenhouse gases and air pollution," Environment Minister John
Baird said in a statement.


Citing the "urgency to act ... underscored today with the release
of this report," Baird said Canada would introduce "world-leading
regulations that will limit the emissions that contribute to
climate change and air pollution."


Environmentalists and the opposition have sparred with Canada's
conservative government over its environmental policy, which has
so far failed to meet its commitment under the Kyoto Protocol on
global warming.


Canada's greenhouse gas emissions have risen by 30 percent since
1990, while under Kyoto, Canada promised to reduce its emissions
levels by six percent by 2012 compared to the benchmark year of
1990.


The governing conservatives presented in October 2006 their bill
to reduce Canada's carbon emissions by 45-65 percent by 2050, but
it was panned by the three opposition parties for setting no
deadlines on cuts before 2020.


The conservatives agreed to have a special committee work on
changes to the bill, which was then redrafted by the opposition
in a version that would make Canada meet the international Kyoto
Protocol for reducing carbon emissions.


The Canadian branch of Greenpeace said earlier Friday that the
fight against global warning had become a moral obligation for
Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government.


"To continue to avoid taking concrete action and setting actual
targets, while being conscious of the dangers that threaten the
planet, is no longer a political game. It's a moral problem,"
said Steven Guilbeault of Greenpeace Canada.


"Harper has an obligation to future generations," he added.


The report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
said the trend was set to inflict damage in every continent,
changing rainfall patterns and threatening nearly a third of the
world's species with extinction.


"It is within our power to prevent the worst of the effects of
climate change, and to adapt to the climate change that will
inevitably occur, head of the liberal opposition Stephane Dion
said in a statement.


"But we can only do that if as a country we are ready to take
serious steps immediately," he said.


"This requires the kind of leadership that we just are not
getting from the Harper government."

