

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said the multi-million pound
investment of American entrepreneur Stan Kroenke will not be
decisive in changing the club's "basic human values".


Kroenke, who owns several major sports franchises in the United
States, on Thursday completed the purchase of a 9.99 percent
shareholding in Arsenal from ITV, and also secured a 50 percent
stake in Arsenal Broadband Ltd for a combined total of 65 million
pounds (127 million dollars).


Arsenal appear to be going down the road of fellow Premiership
giants Manchester United, Liverpool and Aston Villa, who are all
already in American hands.


However Arsenal's major club shareholders, which include vice
chairman David Dein and director Danny Fiszman, have no intention
of selling up.


And Wenger maintains it is the quintessential feeling within the
club which makes Arsenal so special.


"It is just somebody who has bought shares. You have to wait in
the future to see what his intentions are," said the Gunners
manager.


"At the moment, he has come out and said he does not want to buy
the club, he wants just a partnership and that should not change
anything inside the club at the moment.


"At the moment, 60 percent of shares are in the hands of three
people and he has just put 10 percent, so that means nothing will
change for us."


Wenger added: "It is important Arsenal maintains its values
because they are what makes the club so popular and that is
beyond any investment.


"The values are a bit of human class, distinction, respect for
people and ambition to have a certain class in what you do.


"That is what I felt when I came inside this football club -
there was fair play, a desire to do things well and basic human
values.


"It is a daily struggle to keep those values and they are not
only decided by foreign investment because you can have bad
English people as well who go the wrong way."


The Gunners boss stressed: "I feel we have our own way to behave
and to play, and to live on a daily basis.


"Chelsea have a different one, Manchester United have a different
one - but most of the clubs in England try to have that.


"There is always a certain class about English football that I
have always liked.


"It is at Liverpool as well, it is at Manchester United as well.


"I feel it is important because, when you come to English
football, that makes it different.


"In fairness to Manchester United, life has not changed a lot.
There are different owners, but they have respected the values of
the club."


Arsenal, currently fourth in the table, return to Premiership
action at home to struggling West Ham on Saturday.


Kroenke owns soccer side Colorado Rapids, basketball team Denver
Nuggets and ice hockey side Colorado Avalanche.

