

West Indies great Vivian Richards has said England badly need a
big performance from Andrew Flintoff in their key World Cup clash
against champions Australia here Sunday.


All-rounder Flintoff, the star of England's 2005 home Ashes
series win, hit the headlines in the Caribbean when he was
dropped for the game against Canada and stripped of the vice-
captaincy after staying out late drinking following the side's
defeat against New Zealand.


Although his bowling has held up - he tops the England tournament
averages with nine wickets at just under 15 apiece - Flintoff's
batting has been a let down with a mere 45 runs scored from three
innings.


And in England's nailbiting two run defeat against Sri Lanka at
the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here Wednesday, Flintoff managed
just two runs.


If England, who under Flintoff's leadership in the absence of the
injured Michael Vaughan shocked hosts Australia with a 2-0 win in
February's tri-series finals, are to end their oldest foes
perfect played five, won five record at this World Cup, Richards
believes the star all-rounder has to be at his best.


"England are going to need him to hit form more than anything
else on Sunday," said the former West Indies captain.


"It is the perfect opportunity - and ever since the Ashes victory
in England, we haven't heard that much from Andrew Flintoff.


"Especially with some of the stuff that went on, with the
disciplinary side of things, you guys would forget that quite
easily if he went out and took England to the top.


"You guys would say 'all is forgiven.'


"I've always rated him as one of the top-flight all-rounders in
the world - and he needs to come to the front.


"We know he's a strong hitter and a magnificent timer of a
cricket ball - and when he's on song he's someone I love to see
play, with his aggression."


Richards, who played in the first three World Cup finals - West
Indies won in 1975 and 1979 before losing to India in 1983 - also
said England needed a big score from Kevin Pietersen, now rated
the world's best one-day batsman.


The South Africa-born shotmaker top scored with 58 against Sri
Lanka before being caught and bowled by off-spinner Muttiah
Muralitharan but Richards said England needed more from their top
order star.


"I heard him say he would like to turn his 50s into more
hundreds. He had a great opportunity against Sri Lanka - but he
may have another one on Sunday.


"I love to see someone like him whose presence, not necessarily
arrogance, means so much to bowlers.


"Long may he live, because I think in this sport we need
attractive and entertaining players like that. He needs to step
up a bit - and he will be aware there are not many better places
to do it than against Australia on Sunday."

