

An American arrested as he fled unrest in Somalia is now being
held in Ethiopia in "lawless" circumstances, a lawyer for his
family said Friday, calling for the US authorities to bring the
man home.


Amir Meshal, 24, from the northeastern state of New Jersey, fled
Somalia and was arrested in January in neighboring Kenya where he
was questioned by US agents from the FBI intelligence agency, the
lawyer, Jonathan Hafetz, told AFP.


However, US authorities did not take custody of Meshal, according
to a US Justice Department statement. He was sent back to Somalia
but was later seized again and is now detained in Kenya's
northern neighbor Ethiopia.


The New York-based group Human Rights Watch has accused Ethiopia
of running a covert program detaining foreign Islamists, with
support from Kenya, the United States and Somalia's transitional
government.


Hafetz, a lawyer at the Washington-based law institute the
Brennan Center for Justice, described Meshal's detention as "a
product of the lawless process that's taking place in Ethiopia
now with the US involved."


Another US suspect, 28-year-old Daniel Maldonado, was detained in
the same circumstances but transferred to the United States soon
after. He was charged there on February with training for "holy
war" in Somalia.


"It's very suspicious that one American citizen has been brought
back and charged, and Mr Meshal, who the FBI say they don't
intend to charge, is still sitting in an Ethiopian prison,"
Hafetz said.


The US Justice Department confirmed Meshal had been interviewed
by the FBI but said the suspect was not in US custody and there
were no charges against him in the United States.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Meshal was in
good health and had received three visits from US consular
officials. "He's still in good shape" and has suffered "no
mistreatment," McCormack said.


Meshal went to Somalia to "study Islam," Hafetz said, but fled
the country when fighting broke out between Islamists and Somali
forces backed by the Ethiopian army.

