

Tim Clark is starting to wonder what he has to do to earn a
little respect around here.


The 31-year-old South African holed a par putt from off the green
at the 18th hole here Friday to fire his second consecutive one-
under par 71 and grab a share of the lead after the second round
of the Masters on two-under 142.


Last year, Clark was the Masters' runner-up, his best US PGA
finish. He shared third at the 2005 US Open and the 2003 PGA
Championship too. So being level with Brett Wetterich entering
the weekend at the Masters is not a shock.


Still, when it came to Masters contenders, almost no one
mentioned his name.


"I guess no one has ever picked me to do well anywhere. I've had
a third at the PGA, a third at the US Open and a second here, so
my major record is pretty decent compared to people that haven't
won a major," Clark said.


"I'm always a little surprised. Even after yesterday I was on the
leaderboard and no one mentioned me. Everyone was looking at
everyone else to do well.


"Maybe that will just give me a little more incentive to go out
there."


But the invisible man of the 21st Century major contenders
realizes only the ultimate prize is likely to bring the ultimate
glory.


"It probably will take me winning a major tournament for people
to sort of recognize me," Clark said.


"I'm not the longest hitter. I don't have the greatest short
game. But I feel when it gets to the big tournaments, I enjoy the
challenge. I love being here and the pressure really doesn't get
to me at the majors.


Clark's control is his secret weapon when it comes to matching
strokes with such stars as Tiger Woods, especially on the
undulating greens and fickle fairways of Augusta National Golf
Club.


"Around here, my ball-striking is always pretty good. I can
control my irons. I control the distances really well and where
I'm going to hit them. If you don't do that here, you're going to
have a tough time," Clark said.


"That's why I feel I'm suited to play major championships,
because I'm going to be able to put the ball pretty much where I
want."


Clark enjoys the mental test Augusta National provides as well as
the test of endurance.


"This is a special tournament, different than any other. You are
always thinking, always concentrating. That's what makes it so
tough. Not only is it physically demanding it's mentally
demanding," Clark said.


"I don't feel my game suits this course. I'm not going to let
that get in the way of me playing well. I've dreamed of coming
here and playing this tournament as a child. I'm here now and I'm
going to make the most of it."

