

England captain Michael Vaughan has said he will have no qualms
about playing Andrew Strauss in the vital World Cup Super Eights
match against Australia even though the opener has yet to play a
game at this tournament.


England's top order has so far failed to get the side off to a
solid start at the World Cup with Vaughan and Strauss's Middlesex
team-mate Ed Joyce both struggling for runs.


In their nailbiting two-run defeat against Sri Lanka here
Wednesday, Vaughan fell for nought and Joyce managed just 10.


But given the skipper is unlikely to drop himself, Irish-born
Joyce appears to be in the firing line.


Strauss, 30, hasn't played a one-day international for England
since facing Australia in February when he scored six.


And his record in one-dayers against Australia of 321 runs in 15
matches at an average of 22.92 with two fifties, compared to a
career average of nearly 33 in 74 matches, doesn't suggest that
he will be the miracle cure for England's top order blues.


But Vaughan admitted England were considering a change in top
order personnel.


"We've discussed it already and we have an idea of the way we are
going to go because it is an area of concern," said the captain.


"We haven't been firing at the top of the order and we have been
putting batsmen under pressure. But there have been stages when
we have been getting to good positions as well and not going on.


He added: "We need to start better but more importantly we need
to get guys to a hundred because we haven't got a guy to a
hundred in the tournament yet."


Vaughan, speaking to reporters at the Antigua Recreation Ground
after England training here Friday, said of Strauss: "It's never
easy when you're not playing. But sometimes a break from the game
can be quite good mentally.


"He feels fresh and if he gets a game on Sunday I have no qualms
that he'll be able to produce some kind of performance.


"He's playing well in the nets and he's going into a game
potentially with a fresh mind. If he gets a game I'm sure he'll
do well. He's got a great character and a lot of talent to go
with it. I've got no doubt he could produce a score and a big
score."


However, Vaughan wouldn't confirm if Strauss was playing, saying:
"I'll keep you guys guessing for another couple of days."


England are also looking to Vaughan, yet to score a century in 82
one-day internationals and all-rounder Andrew Flintoff, averaging
just 15 with the bat at this tournament, for big scores.


"I feel I'm playing quite nicely in the nets but that counts for
nothing because you have to go out in the middle and get them,"
said Vaughan.


"I've analysed my dismissals and two out of the last three games
have been a little bit unfortunate but if I keep doing the basics
right as I do, I'm sure there'll be a big score round the
corner."


And as for Flintoff's batting form, Vaughan said: "He's just
lacking middle practice and that's something that can happen.


"He's such an instinctive player, he's the kind of guy that
sometimes when he gets out it looks ugly.


"But I've been with him many times before when he's cleared the
guy, got a four and he's away.


"The last thing I want Freddie to do is go into his shell and
start playing as a defensive player."


England, having lost to New Zealand in their opening group game,
went into the Super Eights at a disadvantage and after the loss
to Sri Lanka badly need a win soon although defeat this weekend
wouldn't end their semi-final ambitions.


In February they did upset the formbook by beating hosts
Australia 2-0 in the CB series final and Vaughan said: "We can
take confidence knowing we can beat them but these conditions are
totally different."

