

British newspapers on Saturday praised the conduct in captivity
of the freed sailors, but turned their guns on British and
Iranian leaders for their handling of the crisis.


Most national dailies carried the sailors' testimony on their
front pages, the day after the 15 made a public statement for the
first time about their 13 days being held by Iran's Revolutionary
Guards.


However, some chose to focus equally on the four British troops
killed in southern Iraq on Thursday, which tempered celebrations
as the freed service personnel returned to Britain.


The sailors told Friday how they were stripped, blindfolded and
handcuffed as part of "psychological" intimidation during their
detention. Some at one point feared an imminent execution.


The Daily Mirror attacked critics who said the sailors were wrong
to surrender without a fight and appear compliant on Iranian
television, backing decisions which it said kept them alive and
saw them home.


"Armchair warriors who criticised the 15 freed sailors and
marines should personally apologise to each and every one of
them," its editorial said.


Rival tabloid The Sun said the naval personnel did the right
thing by avoiding a "suicidal firefight" when outgunned that
"might have started World War III."


Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad "may still believe he has
scored some sort of propaganda victory. But his claims are as
laughable as his suits.


"Our sailors have exposed him... as a callous brute and a cunning
liar," Britain's best-selling daily said.


The Daily Express said Ahmadinejad "did his best to humiliate
this country but he must realise that he will not get away with
this again."


The middle-market tabloid said there was a sense of unease and
growing anger over Iran's "despicable actions."


"If he wants a fight, then it looks increasingly likely that he
will get one."


Its rival the Daily Mail reckoned the "inescapable conclusion" of
the crisis was that British Prime Minister Tony Blair had reduced
Britain to a "state of international impotence."


"It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that this so-called
backward nation (Iran) has run propaganda rings around our
hapless foreign secretary and government.


"Unfair it may be, but countless people round the world will look
at the benign way our captive servicemen were ostensibly treated
and compare that to the haunting pictures that have come out of
Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib jail."


Meanwhile The Guardian said both the captured sailors and the
soldiers killed in southern Iraq had borne the brunt of an
"interventionist foreign policy which has failed."


The detainees "behaved both honourably and rationally" in the
face of "grotesque treatment," and their testimonies "may build
public outrage about the incident, which has been strangely
lacking until now," it said.


That reticence was "perhaps really part of a wider public
resentment at Britain's whole involvement in Iraq" -- a "British
defeat" of which "this episode has been part."


"But if Britain has lost, it is because of politicians and the
battles they have chosen to fight," The Guardian argued.


"Between a narrow doctrine of national interest, and Mr Blair's
haphazard lunging at demons, can a middle way be found for
military philosophy: an enlightened balance between
internationalism and an awareness of Britain's limits?"

