

As Easter celebrations get into full swing Dili cathedral is
packed. After mass, Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, in full
campaign mode, shakes the hand and kisses the ring of Bishop
Ricardo.


"We have not gone to civil war thanks to the church," Ramos-Horta
-- seen as one of the strong contenders in Monday's presidential
election in East Timor -- tells AFP.


Between 90 and 95 percent of the inhabitants of the tiny state, a
former Portuguese colony which has been independent since 2002,
are Catholic. And the vast majority are practising.


While the violence that has beset the poverty-stricken country
for the past year has led the East Timorese to lose confidence in
the government, the army and the police, they have kept their
faith in the church.


The unrest that erupted last year forced tens of thousands of
villagers to flee their homes and many of them headed to safe
havens in Catholic churches and convents. A year on, some 37,000
people are still displaced.


"People always flee to the church," said Ramos-Horta, winner of
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996, and one of eight candidates vying
for the presidency.


"The church has always been a powerful uniting force and a
powerful healing force in times of suffering."


It is also a political force in East Timor. Former prime minister
Mari Alkatiri -- who resigned amid the unrest -- found that out
the hard way, when he tried to ban compulsory religious education
in public schools.


The member of the Fretilin party -- once a Marxist resistance
movement fighting for independence -- was forced to back down in
the face of protests organised by the clergy.


The Catholic church in East Timor, however, has not officially
endorsed a candidate for the presidency.


"It's not (up) to the church to dictate who to choose," said
Father Martinho Gusmao, a spokesman for the election commission.


"Officially, as an institution, we say all candidates are
Catholic and we have no preference."


The election date, Easter Monday, is not insignificant, and could
help see a drop in violence between rival factions. Some
officials even tried to organise the election for Easter Sunday,
but were dissuaded from doing so.


"Mixing up the dates like that could have been detrimental," said
Jose Javier Pomes Ruis, chief of the EU observer mission for the
election, in which 520,000 voters will cast their ballots for the
new head of state.


Although the east-west ethnic split has spilled over into
violence here over the past year, all East Timorese -- no matter
what their background -- have remained faithful to the church,
which has played a role in soothing tensions.


A year ago, the church organised a meeting in the town of
Liquica, west of the capital, for residents from Los Palos in the
far east and Oecussi in the west -- evidence of its position as a
unifying force for the divided country.


This year, on Palm Sunday, the church managed to bring some 5,000
youths -- many of them more accustomed to fighting in the streets
than praying -- into Dili cathedral.


"They fight together but they made a procession and joined
together in the cathedral," explained Angelo Trindade, deacon in
charge of youth movements in the Dili diocese.


"After the mass nothing happened -- no conflict, no killing."

