

Aid agencies stepped up relief efforts in the Solomon Islands
Saturday as aftershocks rocked the region and fears grew of
dysentery among the thousands of homeless tsunami victims.


Two Australian military medical teams were headed for the
disaster-stricken western province as a barge full of aid was due
in the local capital Gizo carrying tarpaulins, blankets, water,
ropes, mosquito nets and medical supplies.


Large quantities of rice for the more than 2,000 survivors
sheltering in primitive camps were unloaded from two freighters
at Gizo harbour, which lost most of it wharves and jetties in the
8.0-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami early Monday.


"Aid is arriving steadily now and we are getting it to the camps
as quickly as we can," said Nancy Jolo of the Red Cross in Gizo.


Nearly 5,500 people were left homeless in the region by the
seismic event, which killed at least 34 people and wiped out
entire villages.


Survivors remain in roadside refugee camps on the high ground of
the islands, too scared of another tsunami to return to their
dwellings on the shoreline.


And aid workers and officials warned the toll would rise sharply
as reports come in from outlying islands and as bodies from the
double disaster are formally identified.


There have been constant tremors since Monday's quake, with four
aftershocks hitting the region Friday night, one of them
measuring 5.0.


Aid agencies were digging pit latrines in the camps Saturday
after an outbreak of diarrhoea but Red Cross branch field officer
Sipiru Rove said there was still a high risk of dysentery.


"I am expecting something like that to happen," he told AFP.


"So far we have had some cases of diarrhoea and we are trying to
fix things in the camps to prevent it getting worse."


Health authorities have also warned of malaria and cholera if
sanitary conditions in the camps do not improve, but denied media
reports that cases had already been detected.


Kenton Sade, a government doctor working at a makeshift medical
camp set up after the hospital in Gizo was battered by the
tsunami, said the levels of aid reaching the camps had improved
and the relief effort would soon turn to providing proper shelter
for villagers still living under tarpaulins.


"We're moving out of the emergency response phase of the disaster
now," he told AFP. "We're not getting patients arriving with
severe injuries from the tsunami any more. The hospital is just
treating ordinary sick people.


"We've had teams out making assessments in all the camps,
including the outlying islands and we know now what needs to be
done.


"We need to turn our thoughts to rebuilding and resettling the
people in the camps in the next few days and putting up proper
buildings to give them shelter."


Aid agencies also defended their response to the disaster
following criticism from some village elders that help had been
too slow in arriving in the remote outposts of the far-flung
South Pacific archipelago.


"Aid has reached all the villages affected by the disaster, a
spokesman for the Australian relief agency AUSAid told AFP.


"All the villages have received some initial aid from our
assessment teams and will be receiving increased amounts in the
near future.


"It's a geographical challenge, undoubtedly. Some of these
communities are on very remote islands but we have the relief
here (in Gizo) now and we are getting it out to them."

