

Paul Casey and Padraig Harrington gave European hopes of a first
Masters win in eight years a mighty boost on Friday when both
fired tournament-best 68s.


The fancied Ryder Cup pair had struggled the previous day in the
opening round with Englishman Casey coming in with a hugely
disappointing 79 and Ireland's Harrington faring little better
with a 77.


But their heroics on Friday propelled both up the leaderboard
with Harrington on 145, three shots off the lead, and Casey also
handily placed for the weekend, two shots further back.


Casey had the added satisfaction of bettering Tiger Woods by six
strokes as his playing partner came in with a rocky 74. The two
are now level at the halfway stage.


Casey's round was fired by an eagle three at the second, his
first in three visits to Augusta National.


"From there it was just a solid round of golf," he said. "I
struck the ball nicely and had great control - almost holed it on
the (par-three) 12th, about three inches away.


"The way it is going right now, I'd be suprised if anybody
finishes under par on Sunday, so for me, if I can claw my way
back to even par, I'll take it from there."


Harrington opened in fine style with three straight birdies and
reached the turn in 34. He bogeyed the 10th, but hit back with
birdies at 11, 15 and 18.


"I didn't play much different yesterday to the extent that I just
messed up a lot of simple little shots around the green," he
said.


"That's what really stopped my round yesterday, killed all of the
momentum.


"Today I played similar, but when I got a chance I holed those
15-footers. I was very comfortable on the greens and making
putts."


The Dubliner said he expected the firm, fast course conditions to
be even tougher for the weekend, requiring 100 percent focus and
commitment.


Also in the picture to provide a first European victory since
Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal in 1999 was England's Luke Donald,
who joined Casey on three over after carding a 74.


Donald has come closest to emulating Olazabal with his tie for
third in his debut in 2005 and he also made the cut last year
when he finished tied for 42nd place.


He opened with a bogey but holed a lob wedge for a morale-
boosting eagle at the par-five second. Thereafter, he struggled
with four more bogeys and just one birdie.


"I am never going to be too far away and with the weather
forecast the way it is and the greens getting firmer and faster,
it wouldn't suprise me if even or over par could win this
tournament.


"So a good solid weekend and I still have a chance."


Leading the European challenge was joint first-round leader
Justin Rose, who is two off the lead after shooting a 75, while
David Howell stayed well in touch also with a 75 which left him a
further stroke back.


Swede Henrik Stenson, at sixth the top European in the world
rankings, briefly flirted with the lead for the second straight
day but he lost his way somewhat after that with a back nine of
42.


His 76 left him on 148 at the halfway stage, six behind the
leader and feeling disgruntled.


"The unfortunate thing about this place is that you can hit some
really good golf shots and get absolutely nothing out of it," he
said.


"They just want to make the course on the edge of being silly
tough I'd say."


Olazabal also made it through to the weekend, grinding out a
hard-earnerd 75 for a total of 149.


But heading home were Ryder Cup stalwarts Colin Montgomerie,
Sergio Garcia and Darren Clarke after all three failed to make
the cut.

