

Living in Thailand's restive Muslim-majority south, Sudthaya
Sukthong used to spend her days in constant fear that she could
be killed at any time.


Islamic separatists who have battled the government for three
years stage deadly attacks almost every day in this region along
Thailand's southern border with Malaysia.


So when the army began recruiting for new all-female units of
army rangers, she decided to take her life in her own hands.


"As civilians, we don't know what our fate will be, because many
innocent people have been killed and we don't know when it will
be our turn," she said.


"So I came here to serve the nation and be part of the government
and to die on duty. That has more dignity and more honour than
dying for nothing" as the victim of an attack, Sudthaya said
during a break from her advanced combat training at an army camp
in Narathiwat province.


Sudthaya used to be a school teacher, but now she's dropped her
chalk for an M-16 and green army fatigues, trading walks in the
schoolyard for patrols in the most dangerous districts of
southern Thailand.


Thailand began recruiting the female rangers in response to new
tactics by the separatists, who use veiled women to carry hidden
weapons or bombs. Muslim women also increasingly stage protests
to block roads while militants make their escape.


Male soldiers are barred from touching the veiled women to avoid
offending local sensibilities, but the new female recruits face
no such barrier.


Some 130 women have undergone six weeks of training no different
from that of their male counterparts, learning how to shoot, how
to conduct patrols and searches, as well as first aid techniques.


Sudthaya is a Buddhist who grew up in a corner of Thailand that
is 95 percent Muslim, so the government also taught her more
about the culture and traditions of the ethnic Malay Muslims who
live around her.


The women train at a base at the foot of a long mountain range
where the militants hide and train their forces. Once they join
the force, the women rangers are prevented only from engaging in
offensive military action.


Sudthaya said she has seen the effects of the violence first-hand
as many of her friends have lost loved ones.


"I felt really sorry for them when I saw them mourning and
grieving. That was part of my reason for coming here," she said.


Female rangers are supposed to be the friendlier face of the Thai
military, assisting with rural health care and trying to improve
relations with residents.


But they also work alongside male rangers in setting up military
checkpoints, in addition to dealing with the often tense protests
by local women, said Colonel Narongvit Chusangkit, commander of
Narathiwat province's 45th Ranger Battalion.


"Female rangers play key roles in these three southern provinces,
because they deal with Muslim women better than male rangers
can," he said.


"We have received good feedback, and they have succeeded in
working in some areas where men have not," Narongvit added.


This base is in what the military considers a "red zone" --
meaning it's one of the riskiest area for militant attacks. It
sits just two kilometres (one mile) from an arms depot that was
raided three years ago in an attack now seen as the starting
poing of the unrest.


Benjawan U-Sao, a 26-year-old Muslim, said she joined the rangers
in hopes of improving communication between the military and
local residents, who often speak only their local Malay dialect.


"Elders cannot speak Thai, and they do not understand (when
soldiers speak). When they see male rangers who have guns, they
are afraid," said Benjawan, who worked as a clerk at a local
government office before joining the rangers.


"I want the three southern provinces to be at peace soon. I want
people in the south to have peace, so I am willing to dedicate my
life to this," she said.


It's been two months since Benjawan and Sudthaya began joining
regular patrols.


The first time Benjawan was locked in a standoff with protesters,
she was afraid the situation could turn violent.


"The situation was every tense. The demonstrators were in a
furious mood and I was pretty worried that the situation would
escalate," she said.


"But we did what we were trained to do. We negotiated with them
to calm them down" and then dispersed the protesters, she said.


"Sometimes militants hide weapons on women, but male rangers
cannot search them because it would violate Muslim law," she
said.


"But us female rangers, we can search both women and men. It's
better," Benjawan said.

