

Question: When is an ugly black tattoo on a driver's forearm more
valuable than a multi-million-dollar sponsorship deal?


Answer: When the driver in question is Ferrari's race-winning new
boy "flying Finn" Kimi Raikkonen.


This became apparent in Sepang on the eve of this weekend's
Malaysian Grand Prix when Ferrari team chief Jean Todt said he
would prefer to lose a sponsor who complained -- rather than tell
Raikkonen that his tattoo was not acceptable.


Raikkonen, a low-key and almost taciturn figure, who is more
articulate at the wheel of his Ferrari than in front of a
microphone, arrived in Sepang on Thursday with a very large,
black and heavily patterned tattoo on his right forearm.


Eyebrows in the fastidiously neat and tidy Ferrari team and
throughout the Formula One paddock were raised.


The Finn, once noted for his taste for late nights and lurid
headlines during his former days with the McLaren Mercedes-Benz
team, had the tattoo engraved on his flesh after his maiden
Ferrari win at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in
Melbourne last month.


Todt, it was expected, would therefore read the riot act. It was
his first opportunity to show his new driver some discipline.


Instead, the Frenchman surprised observers by taking a laid-back
approach and supporting his man.


"I read about it," he revealed. "And yesterday we had dinner and
it was not part of the agenda, so I did not notice -- but the
most important thing (for me) is for our people in the team to be
happy.


"So, if Kimi would be happy to put a tattoo on the face and feel
comfortable, honestly, if you ask my opinion, I would say (it
was) better (to) put it somewhere where it is not so disruptive
-- because you may then have some problems in the future.


"But you know, a lot of things are said about him -- that he is
not smiling, or he is smiling, and so on. But at the end of the
day, we are all one together in our team and everybody is very
focused, with or without a tattoo.


"And I don't care. It is as simple as that. So, if a sponsor
complains about the tattoo, I am prepared to change the sponsor
to keep him happy."

