

The US army successfully shot down an test missile with an rocket
fired from its mid-range area missile defense system, the
Pentagon said Friday.


The military fired a SCUD test missile, similar to those used by
Saddam Hussein's Iraq in the 1990-1991 Gulf War, off the coast of
the Hawaiian island of Kaua'i late Thursday.


It was successfully intercepted over the Pacific Ocean by a THAAD
-- Terminal High Altitude Area Defense -- missile fired, the US
Missile Defense Agency said.


The Pentagon is developing a variety of sea, air and land-based
systems to create a layered defense against possible attacks from
enemy ballistic missiles capable of protecting US soil and US
forces overseas.


The THAAD system uses medium-range missiles designed to intercept
enemy ballistic missiles in space or the upper atmosphere.


When fully implemented, the THAAD system "will provide high-
altitude missile defense over a larger area than the
complementary Patriot system," Lieutenant General Henry Obering,
Missile Defense Agency director, said in a statement.


Patriot missiles -- first widely used during the Gulf War -- are
short-range missiles designed to protect ground forces from enemy
missiles when they are in their "terminal phase," or closer to
hitting its target.


The THADD is part of the National Missile Defense system, which
also relies on long-range ground-based interceptor missiles in
Alaska and California to provide an overarching protection of the
United States.


The army, navy, and air force all are working on theater systems
of their own. Though intended primarily to protect US forces
overseas, they could also be used to shield friendly countries
against attack.


The United States wants to install some missile interceptors in
Poland along with a radar system in the Czech Republic as part of
a "defense shield" against missiles that Washington says could be
fired from Iran.


The anti-missile shield is still being developed and experts say
its ability to function in real conditions remains unclear.

