

Adam Scott's hopes of becoming the first Australian to win the
Masters were dealt a near-fatal blow on Friday when he only just
made the cut.


The 26-year-old world No.3 came into Augusta hard on the heels of
a win in the Houston Open and he looked comfortable in carding an
opening two-over 74 on Thursday.


But a double-bogey six on the first set the tone for what turned
out to be a deeply disappointing round for the Adelaide golfer.


He reached the turn in 41 and looked in danger of missing the
cut, when he slipped to nine-over after 12 holes, but he managed
to claw one stroke back in the remainder of his round to finish
with a 78, right on the cut mark of 152.


Scott is one of a seven-strong Australian contingent at Augusta
this year chasing what he has called the "Holy Grail of Golf," a
win in the Masters.


No Australian has ever won the Masters. Greg Norman came
agonisingly closest losing in 1987 to an epic Larry Mize chip-in
and nine years later blowing a six- stroke lead to Nick Faldo in
the final round.


Five of the seven made it into the weekend headed by reigning US
Open champion Geoff Ogilvy who fired a 70 to stand on one-over
145, the same as Stuart Appleby who came in with a highly
creditable 70.


Playing in the same grouping as Tiger Woods, Aaron Baddeley is at
seven-over 151 after a battling 72, with Scott and Rod Pampling
right on the cut line at 152.


Nick O'Hern at 12 over and Robert Allenby at 15 over missed the
cut.


Ogilvy said he was disappointed not to have finished a stroke
better off after bogeying the 18th but said he was otherwise
happy with the way his game was progressing.


"I'm in the tournament and that's all I wanted," he said.


"If you had told me at the start of the day I'd be 1-over, I'd be
perfectly happy."


Appleby said he was in a good position but admitted that his 70
had been hard graft on the hard and fast greens and fairways at
Augusta.


"You have to punch and jab and be light on your feet or this
place will knock you the heck out," he said.


The sole New Zealander in the field, former US Open champion
Michael Campbell, looked to have squeezed into the weekend after
birdies at the par-five 13th and 15th holes.


But a bogey at the 18th gave him a 153, one stroke over the cut.


It was the seventh time in seven appearances that Campbell had
failed to make the cut at the Masters.

