

Democrats in Congress are plotting a new round of political
attrition over Iraq, apparently confident their hand will
strengthen the longer their clash drags on with President George
W. Bush.


A day after Bush vetoed their bid to compel him to start bringing
combat troops home within months, his foes vowed to renew their
battle.


But signs mounted they were mulling a medium-term strategy,
hoping that political ground on the unpopular war would shift in
their favor, rather than immediately sending Bush a new timeline
for withdrawal he is sure to veto.


"This bill is not the last word," Steny Hoyer, the Democratic
majority leader in the House of Representatives, said Wednesday.


Another senior Democrat, Representative David Obey, added: "it is
going to be a long time before this issue is disposed of," in
comments on the vetoed 124 billion dollar war funding bill.


In narrow political terms, the president's move appeared to heap
pressure back on Democrats, who believe voters gave them a
mandate to end US combat operations in Iraq by handing them
control of Congress last year.


With his constitutional powers as commander in chief, and given
the fact they cannot command a two-thirds majority required in
Congress to override Bush's veto, Democrats appear unable to do
more to force Bush's hand.


First, the two sides must agree on a new war bill acceptable to
both -- that process started with a meeting at the White House
Wednesday which congressional leaders from both sides said was
positive.


By standing his ground on withdrawals, Bush may seek to paint
Democrats as impotent on budging Iraq policy, despite their
control of Congress and fierce pressure to end the war from their
political base.


Democrats are also on the hot seat as funds for US troops will
run out within months, should a new bill not be signed by Bush
--- and they are loathe to risk the political price of being seen
as not supportive of the troops.


Democrats counter that they funded the troops, and that Bush's
veto blocked the resources.


As the weeks wear on, and absent an easing of violence convulsing
Iraq, Democratic leverage may grow -- especially if Republican
members of Congress face public anger over the war in the run-up
to 2008 elections.


"The time will come -- I am not sure when, but I hope soon, that
tipping point will be reached when the Republicans finally say to
their president: 'Enough,'" said Democratic Senator Dick Durbin
after the Bush veto.


"Then we will be able to override vetoes and pass legislation
that will make a meaningful change on the policy of his war."


Professor Steven Smith, a congressional expert at Washington
University in St Louis, said Republicans may eventually have the
critical role if they judge their position is unsustainable and
policy needs to change.


"I think (Bush) would prefer to maintain control over the policy
and continue to maintain as much Republican support as he can by
modifying the policy," Smith said.


"The alternative may be, eventually, that Congress will override
his veto." Some Republicans are thought to have made clear to the
White House that they backed Bush only for a limited time to see
if the plan to surge nearly 30,000 more US soldiers into Iraq
will help to still raging violence.


General David Petraeus, now in charge of the Iraq campaign, said
in Washington last week he would report back on the progress of
the surge in September.


"The administration itself has said we should see meaningful
results over the summer. If we fail to see meaningful results,
that support will dissipate quickly," Smith said.


Hoyer signaled on Wednesday that Democratic leaders would next
target 2008 Defense authorization and appropriations bills due to
be sent to Congress by the White House in May and June.


He declined to comment in detail on emerging Democratic strategy,
but did not take the chance to knock down the notion that
congressional leaders would decline to reinsert timelines for
troop withdrawals in the new legislation they will send to the
president.


"We will continue this debate," he said. "This is very important,
yet nevertheless not the final word on policy."


Other options circulating among Democrats are the idea of
benchmarks for the Iraqi government on political progress. But
some Republicans have signaled resistance to a cutoff of funding
if certain goals are missed.


Democratic Representative John Murtha may push an attempt to
finance war operations for only a couple of months.

