

Floyd Mayweather Snr fathered one fighter and trained the other
to stardom but will only be a bystander when his son Floyd Jnr
fights Oscar de la Hoya in an epic boxing showdown here Saturday.


De la Hoya rejected the elder Mayweather's two million-dollar
salary demand to train against his son and the "Golden Boy"
replaced him as his trainer.


Mayweather Snr, who once trained his unbeaten son, has for years
had a dysfunctional relationship with Floyd Jnr, who was invited
into his son's camp after being dumped by de la Hoya.


Mayweather Snr walked out last week when Floyd Jnr praised the
training efforts of his uncle Roger Mayweather, Floyd Snr's
brother, despite Roger having spent six months in jail for
domestic violence just before the camp.


"We're back to square one," Mayweather Snr said Wednesday. "It's
cool, but if it wasn't that he didn't want me to train him, why
would you call me back the second time?"


It was de la Hoya who provided Mayweather Snr two tickets and a
hotel room for the fight when he son would not.


"It says a lot. But he could have shot me two million when I
asked for that too," Mayweather Snr said.


"No trainer ever got that before. That's what history is all
about. Things don't stand still. Now we are here."


Here is the verge of what could be the biggest revenue fight in
boxing history, with de la Hoya taking home 25 million dollars
and Mayweather Jnr receiving 10 million from total income
expected to surpass 100 million dollars.


De la Hoya, 34, is 38-4 with 30 knockouts and the top pay-per-
view draw among active fighters while Mayweather, 30, is 37-0
with 24 knockouts and considered the pound-for-pound world's
best.


With unique insight into both men, Mayweather Snr pointed out the
weak spots for each.


"Oscar is going to have big problems trying to hit with Floyd,"
Mayweather Snr said. "Floyd is in great, tremendous shape. He is
pretty much as good as he can be. But if Oscar hits him on the
chin, we've got problems."


Mayweather Snr was convicted of cocaine smuggling when Floyd Jnr
was 16, spending 5 1/2 years in prison. After his sentence, he
trained his son for six fights before being dumped for Roger and
went on to train de la Hoya.


In some manner, the megafight is a tribute to Mayweather Snr.
It's the degree of that contribution which is at the heart of the
problem.


"My dad wants all the fame," Mayweather Jnr said. "I'm still
going to love him no matter what he says. I respect my father no
matter what he says. My father is a great trainer. But there are
a lot of great trainers out there."


Mayweather Snr has proven to be one of them but is watching
Freddie Roach handle de la Hoya and his uncle work with his son.


"I'm tired of this B.S. Let them talk about what they want. I'm
neutral," Mayweather Snr said. "I'm the man who makes fighters
better. That's what I do. Do you think I'm the best at what I
do?"


Mayweather Jnr, wearing one million dollars worth of jewelry in
his final pre- fight news conference, was irked by de la Hoya's
snub of his father.


"He gives my dad two tickets to the fight. That's not two million
dollars," Mayweather Jnr said. "He doesn't see he is getting
played by them - 'You helped me get to this point but now you are
fired.'"


Mayweather Snr said he is ready to return to de la Hoya's corner
should the "Golden Boy" fight again.


"Of course I will train him," he said. "Of course he will want me
to train him."

