

Manchester City coach Stuart Pearce said the violent bust-up in
training between Joey Barton and Ousmane Dabo would not affect
preparations for Saturday's derby game against Manchester United.


Barton clashed with Dabo during a training ground incident on
Tuesday, leaving the Frenchman needing medical treatment to his
face for several cuts and bruises, as well as a suspected
detached retina.


Barton was suspended by his club for the rest of the season
following the fracas, which had led to intense speculation that
the midfielder will be axed by Pearce in the summer.


The City boss refused to discuss the specifics of the scrap,
confirming the matter is now subject to an internal disciplinary
hearing which will be held the week after the season ends.


But he does not believe there will be any lingering problem that
will affect City's performance this weekend.


"I am sure the rest of the players will react very
professionally," said Pearce.


"There will be no negative response. The way the squad have
handled everything has been a credit to themselves. I am sure
they are galvanised by it."


Dabo suggested he is considering taking legal action against
Barton over the assault.


Such a move could have serious consequences for the England
midfielder, who has attracted unwanted publicity on a regular
basis down the years and is currently thought to be out of the
country.


Among the most unsavoury incidents were Barton stubbing a cigar
out in the eye of team-mate Jamie Tandy during a players'
Christmas party and also attacking a schoolboy Everton fan in a
Thailand bar.


"The matter is now the subject of an internal disciplinary
hearing," said Pearce.


"The board will be involved, as will myself, and we will deal
with it after the season ends."


Dabo was quoted in The Times newspaper as saying he was upset by
the cowardice shown by Barton, who has one England cap, having
played against Spain at Old Trafford in February.


"The fact that I look like the Elelphant Man and will not be able
to play agains this season is bad enough but what I find most
shocking is that he (Barton) struck me first from behind and then
repeatedly when I was down ont eh ground," Dabo said.


"He is a coward and his actions are despicable and that is why I
am in serious discussions with my lawyers to see what actions I
can take."

