

Michael Finley scored 26 points, including a team playoff-record
eight three- pointers, as San Antonio beat Denver 93-78 to
advance to the Western Conference semi-finals.


Tim Duncan had 23 points and 12 rebounds and Tony Parker added 16
points and 10 assists on Wednesday for San Antonio, which won its
eighth straight first-round series and beat the Nuggets four
straight after losing in game one.


Leading, 63-59, to start the fourth quarter, Finley went three-
of-three from the arc in the final period to help the Spurs win
the game by double digits.


His first three-pointer in the period put San Antonio up 73-63
with 9:10 left.


Finley, who shot nine-of-14 from the field and eight-of-nine from
three-point range, made his second one off an assist from Duncan
to give the Spurs an 82-71 advantage with 6:03 remaining.


The 12-year veteran's final shot from the arc gave San Antonio a
commanding 89-76 lead with only 2:32 left.


The Spurs will face either the second-seeded Phoenix Suns or
seventh-seeded Los Angeles Lakers in the next round.


San Antonio took an early lead in the contest, taking a 25-21
lead into the second period. Finley had nine first-quarter points
and Duncan added five.


Denver was only four points back despite shooting just 39 percent
in the initial period. Carmelo Anthony had eight points but Allen
Iverson went zero-of-four from the floor and began the game by
missing his first six shots.


In the second quarter, however, Steve Blake nailed three of his
four first-half 3-pointers to help the Nuggets take a 48-44 lead
into the intermission.


Anthony had six points and Iverson and Nene each had four as
Denver closed the half on a 17-2 run, capped by a three-pointer
by Blake with 0.8 seconds left .


The Spurs held the Nuggets to just 11 points in the third
quarter, allowing Denver only five field goals.


Finley had eight points and Duncan added seven in the period for
San


Antonio.


Anthony and Iverson finished with 21 points apiece for the
Nuggets, who were eliminated in the first round for the fourth
straight season.


In Denver's final three losses, Iverson shot only 33 percent
(22-of-67) from the field, including just six-of-22 on Wednesday.

