

The key to doing business in China, and to Chinese firms
expanding into other countries, is thinking locally, US and
Chinese technology firm executives advise aspiring entrepreneurs.


International businesses flop by implementing existing business
models in China instead of sagely adapting to local culture and
Chinese firms risk similar failure if they don't use similar
wisdom when moving abroad.


The theme was echoed on Wednesday by executives that shared
insights with nearly 2,000 US and Chinese entrepreneurs gathered
at a Hua Yua Science and Technology Association conference
focused on China's red-hot economy.


The non-profit HYSTA is Silicon Valley's leading Chinese
professional association.


"Beware the slippery stones while you cross the river," News
Corp. vice president Jack Gao said, referring to an adage while
discussing entering the China market.


"I don't know how many people I saw fall along the way. Having a
China strategy without an in-depth understanding of the country
is a risk."


While corporate giants such as IBM, Volkswagen, Starbucks and
McDonald's are succeeding in China, powerhouses such as software
colossus Microsoft and US Internet king Google aren't, said Focus
Media president Tan Zhi.


The difference between failure and success depends on companies'
abilities to adapt to the Chinese palette, according to Tan.


"McDonald's and Starbucks have created flavors to meet local
needs, so they are successful," Tan said. "I worked at Microsoft
and know how hard it was to convince my boss in (Redmond,
Washington) to change a little bit."


"Microsoft, eBay, and Google don't know yet how to do business in
China."


International corporations opening divisions in China should give
their managers on the ground direct access to chief executives
overseas and "break the bureaucratic norms," Gao said.


Many US companies put ex-patriots in charge of units created in
China, which is "a real mistake" because companies can better
tune into local culture by using Chinese talent, said McAfee
computer security firm chief executive David DeWalt.


"China is an extraordinary strategic area for every technology
company," DeWalt said during a panel discussion. "We have to
figure a way to build and grow our operations together."


Executives at the HYSTA gathering believe Chinese companies will
inevitably outgrow their borders and launch international
operations, facing their own challenges regarding adapting to
local cultures abroad.


"Globalization is easy to talk, hard to do," said panelist
Weiying Zhjang, dean of Beijing University's Guanghua School of
Management.


"It is difficult for people who live around here to deal with
Chinese entrepreneurs. Also, it is difficult for Chinese
entrepreneurs who go abroad to deal with other people."


Yahoo! co-founder Jerry Yang described the HYSTA gathering as a
rare opportunity for entrepreneurs in world renowned Silicon
Valley to better understand China's promise and potential.


"In China, if they can harness that entrepreneurial spirit,
energy and creativity with capital systems, legal systems and
protection of intellectual properties generated there, China is
going to be an incredible place for innovation."

