

Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty Thursday blamed India's "lunatic
fringe" for an uproar over enthusiastic kisses bestowed on her by
Hollywood heart-throb Richard Gere at an AIDS charity event.


An Indian court last week issued a warrant of arrest for Gere on
charges of "obscene" behaviour after the televised embrace in
which the star bent Shetty backwards on stage and kissed her
repeatedly.


The incident triggered a public storm in India, known for its
chaste public behaviour despite Bollywood's sexually suggestive
song-and-dance routines.


Radical Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in India's
entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies in New
Delhi.


But Shetty, 31, who is in Australia to promote her latest film,
said the kisses had been "blown out of all proportion" and Gere
"was just being very sweet."


"The media tends to get slightly irresponsible at times but
that's the price one has to pay for celebrity," she said.


"The majority of Indians don't feel that way. It was the lunatic
fringe that took over.


"This whole moral brigade got some momentum and some people who
had political affiliations got some mileage out of it as well
from my profile, and Richard's."


Gere issued a "sincere apology" for any offence he caused a day
after the furore erupted, saying the way he kissed Shetty was a
move from his movie "Shall We Dance."


"My clumsy attempt at a 'Shall We Dance' move was a naive misread
of Indian customs and I assure you nothing more," he said in a
statement.


The warrant for Gere and a summons for Shetty were issued in the
Rajasthan state capital of Jaipur following a complaint by a
lawyer who accused the actor of "an obscene act" which carries a
penalty of three months imprisonment, a fine or both.


Bollywood's Shetty gained wide international attention earlier
this year when she won Britain's Celebrity Big Brother reality
show after other contestants were accused of abusing her because
of her race.


In Sydney to promote her film "Life in A ... Metro", she denied
reports that she would join the current Australian Big Brother
show as an "intruder" in the house.


"I don't know where they get those stories from. Maybe from the
fact they had approached me and I said no a long time ago," she
said.


Shetty told the Australian Associated Press that the Gere scandal
had been good for her new movie.


"It's great timing," she said. "Hopefully, people will now be
interested to see what I actually do."

