

World number two Australia starts as favourite for the Sultan
Azlan Shah Cup from Saturday, which also brings together former
champions India, South Korea and Pakistan.


Australia has been the most successful team at the tournament,
winning in 1983, 1998, 2004 and 2005, and is the highest ranked
outfit in Ipoh, in Malaysia's north.


The 2004 Olympic champions and runners-up at the World Cup in
Germany last year, are, like other teams, looking to expose their
younger players ahead of the Beijing Olympics next year.


Australia has included one uncapped player in Fergus Kavanagh,
and four others with less than eight international caps in their
ranks -- Edward Ockenden (8), Daniel Mcpherson (3), Kiel Brown
(4) and Desmond Abbott (2).


Australian coach Barry Dancer said the tournament offered them a
good chance to gauge the young brigade who will be staking a
claim for the Olympic team.


"This tournament has always provided a high class field and the
competition offers teams the best chance to expose their
players," Dancer told AFP.


"It is also another chance for us to look at the teams that will
finally play in Beijing and this early assessment will greatly
benefit us as well as them."


The Australians are in Group A, along with three-time winner
India, Argentina and debutants China.


Pakistan, which has also won three times, heads Group B with one-
time winner South Korea, Malaysia and Canada.


As former champions, South Korea, Pakistan and India will
certainly be seen as potential winners, or at least capable of
giving Australia a fight for the title.


But with each team testing new players, Malaysia, China,
Argentina and Canada cannot be ruled out of the equation.


Eight-time Olympic champion India has brought six rookies, and
with a new coach Joaquim Carvalho at the helm there are concerns
over their ability to challenge for the honours.


Missing are star players like Dilip Tirkey, Gagan Ajit Singh and
Sandeep Singh, although the return of William Xalco, Bimal Lakra
and Ignatious Tirkey should provide some relief in defence.


Pakistan is another giant which has come crashing down hard in
recent years. Their semi-final defeat at the hands of China in
the Doha Asian Games last year was a low point in their hockey
history, from which they have yet to recover.


They too have changed coach, with former Olympian Islahuddin
Siddique taking over from Shannaz Sheikh.


Siddique has been tasked with taking Pakistan back into the elite
grouping in the world order at the Beijing Olympics.


"The team is going through a rebuilding process and it is
difficult at this stage to comment on their performance," said
Pakistan captain Rehan Butt.


"But we have worked tremendously hard for the last 24 days in the
camp and we will give our best in Ipoh."


Pakistan has left out senior players like Shakeel Abbasi and
Adnan Mohamed, while the veteran duo of Sohail Abbas and Wassim
Ahmad have been discarded.

