

Japanese Defense Minister Fumio Kyuma said here Wednesday that he
did not expect a major conflict to occur over Taiwan unless the
island declared independence from China.


Kyuma cited the improving economies ties between China and Taiwan
as well as between the United States and China, and Japan and
China and said he did not expect cross strait tensions to
escalate.


"Unless Taiwan unilaterally declares independence, it is very
difficult for me to see the situation going down that route," he
said at a Washington forum.


He said Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao during a recent
landmark visit to Tokyo declared that "unless Taiwan unilaterally
declares independence, it is Chinese government policy to resolve
this issue peacefully.


"And I believe that is the policy, position taken by the United
States as well, and also Japan agrees with that US position," he
said, sidestepping a question on whether the United States and
Japan remain committed to the security of Taiwan.


Kyuma then added that "it is very difficult to talk about the
issue as sensitive as cross strait" relations "based on
hypothetical situations" and that Tokyo was prepared legally to
confront a conflict situation over Taiwan.


"But should something occur (in the Taiwan strait), if the
situation falls in the direction that threatens peace and
stability, peace and security of Japan, we do have a legislative
framework, law to deal with that situation in areas surrounding
Japan," the Japanese defense chief said.


Military allies the United States and Japan declared for the
first time, in February 2005, that Taiwan was a common security
issue, infuriating China which sees the island as a renegade
province awaiting reunification.


Tokyo and Washington had said then that it was a common strategic
objective in the region to "encourage the peaceful resolution of
issues concerning the Taiwan Strait through dialogue."


Japan recognizes only Beijing as China's legitimate government
but some prominent Japanese lawmakers are known for sympathy to
Taiwan.


China's nationalists fled to Taiwan, a former Japanese colony, in
1949 after losing the civil war to Mao Zedong's communists.


Beijing considers Taiwan part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since
independence-leaning President Chen Shui-bian was elected
president in 2000. He was narrowly re- elected in 2004.

