

Liverpool's new co-owner George Gillett has admitted he and
partner Tom Hicks have been pleasantly surprised to see such a
quick return on their 500-million- pound investment in the club
following Rafael Benitez's side's advance to another Champions
League final.


Gillett and Hicks were in the stands to witness Liverpool's
penalties win over Chelsea on Tuesday night and there is no
doubting that the American duo have been bowled over by the
unique atmosphere the club's fans can generate at Anfield.


Gillett was seen hugging and kissing fans in the director's box
and later admitted that Benitez's achievement in taking Liverpool
to the final for the second time in three years had surpassed his
expectations.


"We knew Rafa was good - but not this good!" Gillett said. "Rafa
has been tremendous. My sons and I followed the sport here before
we came; we knew about Rafa Benitez and what he had done in
Europe.


"We knew of him but I don't think we realised how good he was,
and not just as a coach. Not only is he a brilliant coach but he
is a very sharp, savvy businessman. He knows what he wants and
how to get it.


"The more we have seen of him the more impressed we have become.
We have talked money but that is not the main point. We have
discovered that the way people operate privately is not always
the same as in public.


"We will be supporting him during the summer but it is not about
money, it is about athletes and giving people opportunities."


Unlike the Glazers at Manchester United, Gillett and Hicks appear
to have received a genuine welcome on Merseyside and supporters
are eagerly awaiting to see what Benitez will do with a generous
transfer kitty this summer.


A Champions League final win would further enhance the Americans'
willingness to spend and Gillett revealed that he would be in
Athens on May 23.


"You bet I will be there," he said. "I have worked in the States
for many years but football in Europe is like any other sport I
have seen but on stereoids!"


Hicks meanwhile has confirmed that Liverpool's plans for a new
60,000-seat or bigger stadium were nearing completion.


"We will honour the plans already in place but things are being
changed. We have talked to people and we do not want to start
over with the plans again.


"So far we have worked on its insides, the outside is next, but
we are near to being able to announce our new plans.


"We have to compete with Manchester United who can get over
70,000 in their stadium, while Arsenal's new ground has 60,000,
and with London prices. "Liverpool has a unique market. We have a
huge waiting list of fans wanting to buy tickets so we want a
bigger stadium than the one previously envisaged."

