

India has been transfixed by the tale of rogue cops who allegedly
shot dead a Muslim husband and wife, falsely accusing the man of
plotting to slay the chief minister of Gujarat state.


The Indian press has likened the case to Clint Eastwood's 1971
vigilante cop thriller "Dirty Harry," with critics decrying the
emergence of police officers ready to take the law into their own
hands.


Gujarat's anti-terrorist squad gunned down Sohrabuddin Sheikh in
2005 in the suburbs of the Hindu-nationalist-ruled state's
largest city, Ahmedabad, claiming he planned to assassinate chief
minister Narendra Modi.


The police had alleged Sohrabuddin belonged to the militant group
Lashkar-e-Taiba and wanted to kill the Bharatiya Janta Party
leader in revenge for the deaths of Muslims in bloody Hindu-
Muslim riots that swept the state in 2002.


One of the accused was reported to have told his subordinates the
police were doing "their patriotic duty" in killing people such
as Sohrabuddin.


But a petition by his brother in the Supreme Court of India
prompted an admission by the state government in March that the
killing was a "fake encounter" -- or a staged gun battle.


The case is also drawing attention because it took place in
Gujarat, which has been seeking to clean up its image since it
was the scene of the anti-Muslim riots, which claimed at least
2,000 lives, according to rights groups.


Three top policemen -- deputy police inspector general D.G.
Vanzara, police superintendent Rajkumar Pandian and police
superintendent M.N. Dineshkumar -- have since been arrested on
charges of murdering Sohrabuddin after he was seized from a bus
by plain-clothed police.


Since then, the Gujarat government has admitted before the
Supreme Court that Sohrabuddin's wife, Kauser Bi, was killed
shortly afterwards. She was reported to have been killed to
silence her as a witness.


Sohrabuddin was no angel -- he was accused of being an
extortionist and faced charges of murder and kidnapping in
Gujarat and other states, according to media reports.


But Indian newspapers say that is not the point.


"The bodies of alleged militants become trophies of success in a
war against terrorism," said the Hindustan Times in an editorial
on Wednesday.


"This warped reasoning can apply to both a criminal like
Sohrabuddin Sheikh as well as a law-abiding citizen like you. It
won't make a difference."


"Fake encounters" in which police stage killings are nothing new
in India, with at least five similar cases coming to light in the
revolt-hit state of Jammu and Kashmir earlier this year. Police
there are also facing charges.


But the fact that the killings occurred in Gujarat, known as a
religious tinder box, has given the case heightened significance
due to its potential to stir Hindu-Muslim tensions.


"It does not take much logic to see that acts of injustice
provide fertile ground for extremism to flourish," said newspaper
columnist Manoj Joshi.


The case is seen as becoming a major campaign issue in this
year's Gujarat state elections where Modi, the supposed target of
the man murdered by police, is seeking re-election.


The killings are already reported to be stoking Hindu-Muslim ill-
feeling in the state, and radical Hindu groups have staged
demonstrations in favour of the arrested policemen.


Modi became a hugely controversial figure in 2002 -- both
domestically and internationally -- when rights groups accused
him of turning a blind eye to the riots in which victims were
shot, burnt and hacked to death.


The anti-Muslim riots erupted after 59 Hindu pilgrims died on a
train in a fire some blamed on a Muslim mob.


The Supreme Court called Modi a "modern day Nero," a reference to
the Roman emperor who fiddled while Rome burned.


Modi denied ignoring the butchery that lasted days and since the
riots has worked quietly to rebuild the image of Gujarat,
focusing on drawing investments to the wealthy state and making
it one of India's fastest growing.


So far, Modi has not commented on the vigilante killings that
some newspapers have alleged were carried out with "political
cooperation."


"Cops who kill aren't heroes. And the victims can't but affect
Modi's makeover," commented the Indian Express in an editorial.

