

Diplomats from the Kosovo Contact Group of countries meet in
London on Thursday to discuss the next steps on plans for the
province to declare independence from Serbia.


Officials from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and the
United States were to gather at the Foreign Office.


United Nations special envoy Martti Ahtisaari has drawn up a plan
to hand Kosovo's increasingly impatient ethnic Albanian majority
their wish for statehood.


However, Russia has rejected the former Finnish president's
proposals as a violation of Serbia's territorial integrity -- a
move which could dominate the London talks.


"It's a routine meeting between political directors of Kosovo
Contact Group countries," a Foreign Office spokesman told AFP on
Wednesday.


"They tend to meet about once a month to discuss the status
process, the next steps and so forth."


Ahtisaari is not involved, but is also in London for meetings
with British officials, the spokesman said.


Nicholas Burns, the United States under secretary of state for
political affairs, said Wednesday that there was widespread
support in the UN Security Council for Kosovo's independence --
and hoped that Russia would back the plan.


"The European Union will have to stay for a number of years to
provide economic assistance and NATO will have to stay to provide
the kind of external border security that Kosovo cannot provide
for itself. That should happen," he said, adding that Kosovo was
"in essence a European problem."


"I find in looking at the present members of the Security
Council, a vast number of countries -- clearly the majority right
now -- support supervised independence," the State Department
number three told Chatham House, the London- based international
affairs think tank.


"So in our meeting tomorrow with Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir
Titov of Russia, we will try to work with him to see if we can
develop a resolution that would be voted upon in the next 30 days
or so that would prepare the way forward for Kosovo to declare
its own independence.


"We hope very much the Russian government will be with us and we
can convince Russia this is the right way forward.


"We're convinced this is the right time to move, the next 30 days
or so, and we hope very much to convince Russia to be a
productive part of this discussion."


The ethnic Albanian dominated province in southern Serbia has
been under UN administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing
helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown against Albanians.


Its future status is expected finally to be determined in the
coming weeks as the UN Security Council begins a debate on
Ahtisaari's plan.


The proposals, drafted after he led a year of mostly fruitless
talks between Belgrade and Pristina, would grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, including its own
constitution, flag and anthem.


The proposals have the backing of the EU, the United States and
the leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent
of Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


However Serbia sees the province as its historic heartland and
has firm backing from Russia.

