

A bomb struck a bus taking Afghan soldiers to work in the capital
Kabul early Thursday, killing the driver and wounding 14 people,
police said.


The bomb was hidden in a cart parked at the side of the road and
was remotely detonated as the bus went by, an army officer said.


"It was a roadside bomb targeting an ANA (Afghan National Army)
bus," the city's criminal investigation chief Alishah Paktiawal
said.


"The blast wounded 14 people and the driver was martyred. Seven
of the wounded are ANA personnel and seven are civilians."


He blamed the attack, one of a handful inside the city this year,
on the "enemies of peace and stability in Afghanistan" -- a term
Afghan officials often use and one generally understood to refer
to Taliban insurgents.


The blast blew away one side of the bus and shattered all the
vehicle's windows. Other vehicles in the area were damaged.


One of the men on the bus, Mohammad Hassan, said he had jumped
out of one of the shattered windows and helped to lift out the
wounded.


"We were on our way to work. Suddenly I saw a big flame which
rushed into the bus and I heard a big bang. I later realised it
was a roadside bomb targeting our bus," the visibly shaken
soldier told AFP.


"The bus drove into a wall and I jumped out of the window," he
said. Hassan's beard and hair were singed and he had scratches on
his ears, neck and face.


The Taliban-led insurgency that is gripping much of Afghanistan
rarely penetrates the heavily secured capital, but the city has
suffered several attacks.


Late Wednesday a senator who was a prime minister for a few weeks
in 1992, during the chaos of the civil war, was assassinated
outside his home by unknown gunmen.


Abdul Sabur Farid Kuhestani, aged in his mid-fifties, was shot
dead in an ambush, Paktiawal said. The motive was not clear.


In January this year another parliamentarian, Mawlawi Islam
Mohammadi, was shot dead as he left his house in Kabul to walk to
a local mosque.


On March 19 a suicide car bomb struck a US embassy convoy in the
city, wounding five embassy guards and staff, one of whom died
later.


Kabul saw relatively little of the insurgency until September
last year, when around seven bombings in little more than a month
killed nearly 40 people including five foreign soldiers.


Some of the attacks were blamed on the Taliban but analysts said
other disaffected groups against the Western-backed government
could have also been involved.

