

Every spring, Germans flock to cafes and beer gardens for their
beloved white asparagus, a delicacy usually doused in butter or
hollandaise sauce.


And every year, thousands of Polish workers cross the border to
harvest the crop and make some extra cash doing the kind of work
even Germany's long-time unemployed routinely turn down.


That is, until now.


Germans have not lost their taste for the thick stalks of
"spargel" they consume each year with relish -- some even call
them an aphrodisiac.


But many Poles are heading for greener pastures in Britain,
Scandinavia or the Benelux nations -- Belgium, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg -- now that their country has joined the European
Union and they are free to work in more lucrative markets.


It is a tale of globalisation reaching from the Atlantic to Asia
with a delectable spring vegetable in the starring role.


Farmer Joseph Jakobs has worked the sandy soil in Beelitz just
south of Berlin since 1996, with white asparagus as his biggest
cash crop. He employs about 300 Poles for the harvest each spring
running from mid-April until late June.


It is back-breaking work, and few who have other options choose
to hunch over the endless rows each day to extract the white
asparagus before it pierces the ground and sunlight triggers
photosynthesis, turning it green.


"In the long run we will have to forget about employing Poles,"
Jakobs told AFP during a tour of the fields.


"We just cannot compete with wages in Ireland, Britain or
Scandinavia."


Every German eats an average of more than one kilo (2.2 pounds)
per season of white asparagus -- 20 percent more than a decade
ago -- which is, according to official figures, the highest rate
worldwide.


More than 320,000 foreign labourers come to Germany each year for
the asparagus, strawberry, cucumber or wine grape harvest, about
280,000 of them from Poland.


It used to be that even highly qualified Poles such as lawyers
and physicians came to pick asparagus for the season because the
wages at home were a pittance.


But all that has changed since Poland and nine other countries
joined the EU in 2004.


While Germany adopted strict labour restrictions for workers from
the new EU member states, designating that they could only seek
employment in certain industries, others opened the floodgates.


Employers in Beelitz are now starting to look to workers from
Ukraine, the Balkans and Romania to fill the seasonal jobs which
pay between four and six euros (5.40 and 8.20 dollars) an hour
with bonuses for productivity.


Higher wages are out of the question because Germans, far more
frugal when it comes to food than most of their European
neighbours, would not pay much more than they already do to eat
asparagus.


Jakobs said that with wages rising in Poland, Germans reluctant
to work in the fields and potential competition from farms in
neighbouring states such as the Czech Republic, Beelitz may one
day have to say good-bye to "spargel."


"Spargel from Beelitz is like champagne from Champagne," said
Jakobs, calling it the looming end of a tradition that reaches
back to the mid-19th century.


His chief Polish foreman, Robert Stavieray, said Poles are turned
off by more than the comparatively low wages in Germany.


"In England you can find work as a babysitter for six pounds
(8.80 euros, 12 dollars) an hour and people are used to dealing
with foreigners," he said.


"Here everything is bureaucratic and more complicated."


He said 60 percent of the workers he had counted on for this
year's harvest did not come to Beelitz, with half opting to stay
in Poland and the other half finding work in other European
countries.


Another problem is that many Polish workers employed in Germany
are required to pay into the Polish social welfare system which
eats into their bottom line.


"Several European countries do not have such agreements (with
Poland) or they are not applied," said Harald Buege, the head of
the state employment agency in the northern state of Lower
Saxony, another key asparagus region.


"That is why many workers are willing to make the longer trip."


As for the Germans, an official study last year showed that of
the around 8,300 jobless sent by the federal labour agency to the
harvest last year, only one in three actually reported for work
and just one in six stayed for the whole season, meaning that in
some cases the crops simply rotted in the fields.


Such dismal statistics have led farmers like Jakobs to invest in
mechanised harvest equipment so he is less reliant on manual
labour.


In cases where the long-term jobless refuse to pick asparagus,
the healthy and strong-bodied among them can see their state
benefits slashed.


But the federal labour agency has been forced to become more
pragmatic in light of German resistance and a booming economy,
now dictating that only 10 percent of the field workers during
the harvest must be German, down from 20 percent.


"It does not make any sense to send people to work during the
harvest if they come back after two days with a doctor's note or
do not come back at all," labour agency spokeswoman Frauke Wille
said.


Meanwhile, the mass exodus of labour in Poland has required
farmers in its sizeable agricultural sector to look eastwards for
help -- to Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and even Asia.


An estimated one million Poles have gone west to look for work
since the EU's "big bang" expansion brought in 10 new member
states in 2004, followed by Bulgaria and Romania in January.


In a bid to protect their job markets, Germany and Austria are
expected to keep their labour restrictions for workers from new
member states until 2011.

