

AC Milan are desperate to beat Liverpool in the Champions League
final to erase the memory of their nightmare defeat at the hands
of the Merseysiders in the Istanbul final two years ago.


Milan set up the chance for revenge with a superb 3-0 semi-final,
second leg victory over Liverpool's Premiership rivals Manchester
United here on Wednesday for a 5-3 aggregate victory.


Goals inside the first half hour from Kaka and Clarence Seedorf
put Milan in the driving seat at a rain-drenched San Siro before
substitute Alberto Gilardino completed United's misery.


Milan are now relishing the chance to make amends for their loss
to Liverpool in the 2005 final when they threw away a three-goal
half-time lead in six mad minutes to draw 3-3, before losing a
penalty shoot-out.


"Now let's take back the cup we gave to them in 2005," said AC
Milan president Silvio Berlusconi.


The former Italian prime minister insisted his team would be
better prepared for penalties this time around.


"In the final in Istanbul, Liverpool's keeper (Jerzy Dudek)
succeeded in putting our players off by moving a lot on his line,
and so now we will practice taking penalties against a keeper who
is moving all the time."


Kaka, whose early strike took his tally in the competition to 10
in 12 matches, is hoping to score twice in the final to equal
Ruud van Nistelrooy's Champions League record of 12 goals.


"It would be incredible if I could score twice in the final and
become (joint) all-time top scorer, but the most important thing
is that the team lifts the trophy," said the talented Brazilian.


"It will be wonderful to face Liverpool again and we hope this
time things will be different.


"It's a great chance to win a match we should have won two years
ago. I don't look at it as revenge, more an opportunity to make
up for that day."


United coach Sir Alex Ferguson defended his decision not to man-
mark Kaka, whose two goals in the 3-2 first leg defeat at Old
Trafford last week laid the foundations for Milan's victory.


"Kaka is a wonderful player who floats from side to side behind
the strikers," said the Scotsman.


"He has wonderful movement, a long stride and is deceptive with
his space.


"But it's not our style to man mark and that sometimes brings
complications, leaving it up to the nearest defender to deal with
him."


Ferguson lamented his team's inability to keep hold of the ball,
but insisted they would bounce back in Saturday's crunch
Manchester derby against City.


"They caught us on the back foot at the start, but I still felt
we could have done better," he said.


"The name of the game in Europe is that you don't give the ball
away, and Milan kept possession better than us.


"But the nature of our football club is that you have to recover
from disappointments, and we will have to do that on Saturday.


United could win the Premiership title this weekend if they
defeat Manchester City and second-placed Chelsea fail to beat
Arsenal.

