

Nigerian militants Thursday kidnapped three South Korean and
eight Filipino workers after a gunfight at their construction
site,  the South Korean foreign ministry said.


Construction company officials in Seoul said the shootout lasted
for 40 minutes but refused to confirm a report by Seoul's Yonhap
news agency that several people were dead or injured.


"Three Koreans from Daewoo Engineering and Construction, eight
Philippine workers and a local driver have been kidnapped by a
group of armed insurgents," a foreign ministry spokesman said.


They were seized at a power plant construction site near Port
Harcourt in the Niger Delta area, he said.


"A gunfight erupted between the insurgents and security guards
but there have been no reports of injuries involving South Korean
workers as yet," the spokesman said.


A total of 1,755 workers including 148 Koreans were at the site,
which has been guarded by Nigerian soldiers and security
officials, Daewoo spokesman Huh Hyon said.


The kidnapped Koreans include Chung Tae-Young, a 52-year-old
Daewoo managing director who was on a business trip to the area,
and two top Daewoo officials in Nigeria, he said.


An emergency control centre made up of Daewoo officials and South
Korean diplomats in Nigeria has been set up to work for an early
release of the hostages, the foreign ministry spokesman said.


"An emergency meeting will be held soon at the president's office
(in Seoul)," he said.


No group came forward immediately to claim the kidnapping in
Africa's largest oil-producing nation.


Rich in oil reserves, the Niger Delta area has been at the centre
of a long confrontation between the government and a militant
group known as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (MEND).


There have been frequent kidnappings of foreign workers in the
area in recent years. Nine Daewoo workers were taken hostage in
January but were later released unharmed.


MEND is responsible for at least one previous kidnapping of South
Koreans, in which three Daewoo officials and two from South
Korea's state-owned gas corporation were abducted in June last
year. All five were later freed.

