

Iraq on Thursday makes a push for international help to end
devastating violence that has killed tens of thousands of people
since the US-led invasion in 2003.


Top officials have converged on the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh for two days of talks on ways to end the fiery anti-
American insurgency and communal bloodletting.


Much attention has also been focused on the prospect of bilateral
talks between the United States and Iran on the sidelines, the
first in almost three decades.


"The conference is an important forum to harness and mobilise
regional and international support for Iraq", said Iraq's Deputy
Prime Minister Barham Saleh.


"We hope this conference marks transition for Iraq from being a
point of regional and international contention and zone of
rivalry to one of consensus."


Saleh said Iraq expected more help from neighbouring countries
and also for the United States and Iran to cooperate to help
Iraq.


"Failure is not an option in Iraq, we have to succeed," he said.


"We would like Iran to be in accord with the US and the
international community on the Iraq issue", he said.


Iraq's Finance Minister Bayan Jabr Solagh told AFP he expected
countries including Saudi Arabia and Egypt to write off about
40-50 billion dollars of debt at the meeting.


He predicted Saudi Arabia would write off about 80 percent of the
20 billions dollars owed by Iraq.


On Wednesday, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki renewed a plea
for international help for his war-torn country.


"The goal of the International Compact with Iraq is not only to
reduce Iraq's debt but also to obtain support for the political
and democratic process, as well as support in the battle against
terrorism," he said.


Iraq's neighbours are to hold a key meeting focusing on security
on Friday but have already started holding preparatory meetings.


Hisham Yusef, a top aide to Arab League chief Amr Mussa, said:
"There are neighbours who can influence the situation in Iraq, so
there were discussions on those lines."


The consultations have included ways of including Sunni insurgent
groups in reconciliation efforts.


Heading to Egypt, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the
onus was on Iraq's neighbours to show their commitment to ending
violence, warning that their own stability was at stake.


"The most important message that I will be delivering is that a
stable, unified and democratic Iraq is an Iraq that will be a
pillar of stability in the Middle East and an Iraq that is not
stable and not an Iraq for all people will be a source of
instability for the region," she said.


Completing a shift in US policy, Rice was expected to talk to
Syria and Iran, who have been accused by Washington of funding
and abetting Iraq's Sunni insurgency and Shiite militias
respectively.


A possible meeting with Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki would mark the first high level bilateral talks since the
United States cut relations in 1980.


However, Iran has yet to give an unequivocal sign it is ready for
talks and Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostavafi said on Tuesday
the conditions were not right for a "dialogue" with Rice at the
conference.


Rice indicated she would also be ready to discuss issues other
than Iraq with the Iranian foreign minister, including the
standoff over the Islamic republic's nuclear programme.


"I think I could handle any question as asked," she said.


In readiness for the 27 foreign ministers and 22 other
delegations due at the Sharm el-Sheikh talks, Egyptian police
have thrown up a tight security cordon around the resort.


US Treasury Deputy Secretary Robert Kimmitt, who travelled with
Rice, remained cautious however on the prospects of immediate
dividends from the meeting.


"Now not everything is going to be achieved at this meeting in
terms of all of the commitments that will need to be made to Iraq
over time but I think, as the Iraqis meet more and more of their
targets, you'll see more and more commitments to them," he said.


There is an intense battle between US President George W. Bush's
administration and the Democrat-dominated Congress over the Iraq
war.


On Tuesday, Bush dashed Democrat hopes for a firm timetable for
the withdrawal of US troops by vetoing a bill setting a start
date for a pullout.

