

Malaysian journalists have called on the government to allow
greater press freedom to match the growing use of blogs and
websites as alternative sources of information.


In comments marking World Press Freedom Day, the National Union
of Journalists said easy access to information on the Internet
meant Malaysians were using it to scrutinise and discuss abuses
by public officials.


"The growth of this new media channel for the public to express
their concern on government shortcomings is raising their
standing and influence to that of the mainstream media and
changing the current journalism landscape," said NUJ president
Norila Mohamad Daud.


"In view of this latest development, the NUJ feels that the
government should accord greater freedom to the local media by
amending restrictive media laws," she said in a statement.


The Malaysian media tends to practise strict self-censorship and
normally provides uncritical coverage of government policies and
activities.


Norila cited two repressive laws, the Printing Presses and
Publication Act (PPPA) and the Official Secrets Act (OSA), which
she said had to be amended.


The PPPA empowers authorities to ban or restrict the circulation
of local publications. It also requires the local media to apply
for an annual publishing permit.


"The OSA has also curbed the growth of investigative journalism
in Malaysia, often resulting in mild reporting of issues
concerning public interest," Norila added.


The calls come amidst attacks on bloggers and Internet users by
ministers, including Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, who
accuse them of spreading lies about the government and have
threatened controls.


Two prominent bloggers, Ahirudin Attan and Jeff Ooi, are also
being sued for defamation by the government-linked New Straits
Times Press group, a move criticised for attacking freedom of
expression.


Ahirudin said it was "inevitable" the Internet would exert
pressure to free up the mainstream media.


"I see what I do through blogging as a shortcut that could help
this country achieve press freedom," Ahirudin, also a newspaper
journalist, told AFP.

