

San Antonio and Phoenix did their parts to set up a second round
clash as Michael Finley's hot hand helped the Spurs beat Denver
and Amare Stoudemire led the Suns past the Lakers.


Finley scored 26 points, including a team playoff-record eight
three-pointers, as San Antonio beat Denver 93-78 to reach the
next round of the National Basketball Association playoffs.


Tim Duncan had 23 points and 12 rebounds and Tony Parker added 16
points and 10 assists on Wednesday for San Antonio, which won its
eighth straight first-round series and beat the Nuggets four
straight after losing in game one.


"Obviously, we're thrilled with the win against a very good
basketball team that is very, very difficult to guard for a lot
of reasons," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said.


"Finley was ridiculous. Throughout the game, he was fantastic.
With Tim getting that much attention, we need guys to step up and
make shots, and, he did."


The Spurs advance to the second round of the Western Conference
playoffs where they will face the second seeded Suns who beat the
Lakers 119-110 to wrap up their series.


Leading, 63-59, to start the fourth quarter, Finley went three-
of-three from the arc in the final period to help the Spurs win
the game by double digits.


His first three-pointer in the period put San Antonio up 73-63
with 9:10 left.


Finley, who shot nine-of-14 from the field and eight-of-nine from
three-point range, made his second one off an assist from Duncan
to give the Spurs an 82-71 advantage with 6:03 remaining.


The 12-year veteran's final shot from the arc gave San Antonio a
commanding 89-76 lead with only 2:32 left.


"Michael got his shot and we kind of worked the ball to him,"
Duncan said. "It's not like we were pinpointing him, but he got
his shots within the offence. Towards the end, he hit some big
ones for us that helped stretch the lead."


Carmelo Anthony and Allen Iverson finished with 21 points apiece
for the Nuggets. In Denver's final three losses, Iverson shot
only 33 percent (22-of-67) from the field, including just six-
of-22 on Wednesday.


In Phoenix, Amare Stoudemire had 29 points and 17 rebounds for
the Suns who eliminated the Lakers in just five games.


Shawn Marion had 26 points while Steve Nash added eight assists.


Leandro Barbosa scored 18 points of the bench for Phoenix, which
erased a 3-1 deficit against Los Angeles in a first-round matchup
last season.


But the Suns did not let the same thing happen to them this
campaign.


In game four, two-time MVP Nash handed out 23 assists and
Stoudemire dominated inside with 27 points and 21 rebounds as the
Suns took a 3-1 lead with a convincing 113-100 victory on Sunday.


Despite the cushion in the series, a win was imperative for
second-seeded Phoenix, which did not want to make a return trip
to Los Angeles for game six with its second-round opponent
comfortably resting at home.


Bryant scored 34 points on 13-of-33 shooting Wednesday and Lamar
Odom added 33 and 10 rebounds for the Lakers, who have not gotten
past the opening round since 2004, when they lost to the Detroit
Pistons in the NBA Finals.


"It is tough losing, extremely frustrating," said Bryant, who won
the league scoring title during the regular season. "It was
difficult season. The second half was hard. We manage to get
through a difficult stretch and find ourselves in playoffs."

