

Philippine President Gloria Arroyo on Thursday ordered a "quick
reassessment" of the country's repatriation plan for workers in
Iraq following the deaths of four Filipinos in a rocket attack.


Arroyo's spokesman Ignacio Bunye said the president was "saddened
by the news" and had asked the foreign affairs department to
"ensure the immediate repatriation of the remains" of the
workers.


He said the foreign office had been asked to "conduct a quick
reassessment of the situation to determine if more OFWs (overseas
Filipino workers) in Iraq need or want to be repatriated."


Arroyo imposed a ban on travel to Iraq in 2004 after Filipino
truck driver Angelo de la Cruz was seized by insurgents.


She also caused a mild rift between Washington and Manila when
she pulled out a token contingent of Filipino troops serving with
US coalition forces which was a condition for Cruz' freedom.


Officials say more than 4,000 Filipinos working in US camps in
Iraq -- mostly as cooks or maintenance personnel -- remained
there when the ban was imposed.


The dead Filipinos were working for the US embassy when a rocket
slammed into Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone Wednesday, US
charge d'affaires Daniel Speckhard said in the Iraqi capital.


The attack took place after several days of mortar attacks
against the Green Zone, the seat of the Iraqi government as well
as the US and British embassies.


The Filipinos died on the same day that a US military spokesman
warned that insurgent gunners were trying "to score a spectacular
hit or obtain a headline grabbing direct hit" on a Green Zone
target.


Bunye said a ban on Filipinos travelling to Iraq would remain,
but nationals who were already there were "urged to take
necessary precautions for their safety" while keeping in touch
with the embassy there.


Another Filipino, accountant Robert Tarongoy, was kidnapped by
militants but freed in June 2005 after eight months in captivity.


Arroyo had earlier created a special task force to look into
repatriation plans for those still in Iraq.

