

US and Iraqi forces have killed the head of the so-called Islamic
State of Iraq, an umbrella group of Sunni insurgents which
includes Al-Qaeda, Iraq's deputy interior minister said Thursday.


Minister Hussein Ali Kamal said the insurgent leader known as Abu
Omar al- Baghdadi was killed in northwestern Baghdad. "His body
is under the control of the interior ministry. His body has been
identified," he told AFP.


Separately, US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Chris Garver
said the military would hold a news conference later on Thursday
to announce a "recent success against a senior leader of Al-Qaeda
in Iraq".


Kamal said Baghdadi was killed in a clash on Wednesday in the
Ghazaliyah district of northwestern Baghdad, a flashpoint
district on one of the city's many sectarian faultlines, not far
from the airport.


His death would be first major success of a 10-week-old joint US
and Iraqi security operation, which has seen tens of thousands of
extra troops and police flood the war-torn capital in a bid to
quell sectarian bloodshed.


The "Islamic State of Iraq" and Al-Qaeda have been blamed for
some of the bloodiest recent attacks on Shiite civilians, and
Baghdadi's umbrella group claimed responsibility for murdering
dozens of kidnapped police.


The group also claimed responsibility for a suicide bomb attack
on Iraq's parliament that killed one MP deep inside Baghdad's
fortified Green Zone.


News of the militant leader's apparent demise comes only two days
after the Iraqi interior ministry and a Sunni tribal coalition
claimed that Al-Qaeda in Iraq's leader, Abu Ayyub al-Masri, had
been killed.


This has still not been confirmed -- and Garver was at pains to
point out that Thursday's news conference was "not about al-
Masri" -- but if it is true the Sunni Islamist insurgency in Iraq
would have lost both its top leaders.


Baghdadi's name first came to the public eye in April 2006, when
he was annointed leader of a new organisation uniting anti-US
insurgent groups by the then Al-Qaeda in Iraq leader, Abu Musab
al-Zaraqawi.


According to experts on the insurgency, rising dissatisfaction
among rebel groups with Jordanian-born Zarqawi's brutal tactics
targeting civilians spurred the formation of what was then known
as the Mujahedeen Shura Council.


With Zarqawi's death in a US airstrike in June, Baghdadi (whose
name means "Omar's father from Baghdad") became the preeminent
leader of the insurgency in an effort to give it a more Iraqi
face.


Zarqawi's successor in Al-Qaeda, Egyptian-born Masri, was
designated as Baghdadi's "war minister". On October 15, the
alliance renamed itself the Islamic State of Iraq to confront de
facto Shiite and Kurdish states, according to Islamist websites.

