

President Roh Moo-Hyun has invited Russian President Vladimir
Putin to visit South Korea for talks on joint projects including
plans for a Korea-Russia railway, officials said Thursday.


The invitation was extended last month when former Prime Minister
Han Myeong- Sook visited Moscow to attend former leader Boris
Yeltsin's funeral.


Roh asked Putin to visit for discussions on bilateral issues,
including a railway link between Russia and the Korean peninsula,
a government official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


The official however said Seoul "has no intention of rushing" the
costly and complicated project to link the Trans-Siberian railway
and a planned Trans- Korean railway.


Such a project would create a land bridge for freight between
Korea and Europe, but the North's crumbling rail infrastructure
would have to be upgraded.


North and South Korea have agreed to carry out on May 17 their
first test run of trains across the heavily fortified frontier in
half a century.


Two lines have been reconnected, one in the west and the other
along the east coast. The South wants talks to secure military
guarantees from the North for their safe operation.


A previous attempt to hold test runs failed last year because the
North Korean military was reluctant to open the sensitive border
area to commercial traffic.


The railway plan is seen as a flagship project for relations
between the two Koreas, which have remained technically at war
since their 1950-53 conflict.


But test runs would take place only in the area around the border
zone, with much of the remaining track in the North thought to be
in poor condition. It also uses a different gauge from the South.


Moscow has been in talks with Pyongyang since 2001 on creating an
international consortium to rebuild or modernise the North's
railways, but little progress was made.


Reconstruction of the 800-kilometre (497-mile) railway in North
Korea would cost about 2.5 billion dollars, according to Russian
estimates.

