

Beirut dailies said on Thursday Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert should quit after a damning report on his handling of the
Lebanon war, which they said showed that offensives do not bring
security.


Al-Akhbar, close to the Hezbollah-led opposition, said "the dust
of the earthquake provoked by the Winograd report has withered
away to reveal the image of a struggle for survival by Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert, and a battle of succession in Israel."


"The distance between Olmert and the term 'former prime minister'
is now shorter than ever," it said.


The liberal Al Anwar said the embattled premier had no choice but
to step down.


"If Olmert remains it will weaken his party Kadima, and if his
government remains it will weaken Israel's position and will
prevent it from being able to face any developments in the
future, whether to go to war or negotiate a (peaceful)
settlement."


A front-page editorial in the leading An Nahar newspaper said the
internal situation in Israel has been "destabilised" because of
the Winograd report.


"The question is not Olmert, but what is after Olmert. But the
most important question remains: ... will Israel learn the most
important lesson?" asked An Nahar.


"Wars (whether planned or unplanned) will not guarantee a victory
on the Arabs, and it is an impossible way to achieve security and
stability for Israel," it said.


"Wars do not cover Israel's constant headlong rush instead of
facing its failure to take the decision to make peace," it added.


On Wednesday, Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Siniora said he
regretted an Israeli inquiry into last year's war had failed to
learn the real lesson -- that military offensives will not bring
peace to the Jewish state.


The Winograd commission of inquiry's interim report published on
Monday accused Olmert of a "serious failure," of acting "hastily"
and personally contributing to "over-ambitious" and unfeasible
war aims.


The report has left Olmert battling to keep his job after his
foreign minister joined a chorus of voices in Israel demanding
his resignation.

