

Tycoon Ananda Krishnan and associates said Thursday they will
offer a hefty premium to buy out shareholders of top mobile
telecom firm Maxis in Malaysia's biggest ever corporate deal.


Binariang GSM, an investment holding firm and special purpose
vehicle for Ananda's private firm Usaha Tegas and affiliates,
said through CIMB Investment bank it would offer 15.60 ringgit
for the 1.037 billion shares in Maxis that it does not already
own.


That amounts to a buy-out deal worth 16.4 billion ringgit (4.79
billion dollars) and values Maxis as a whole at nearly 40 billion
ringgit.


"At the offer price, Maxis is valued at 39.9 billion ringgit and
the minorities' shares are valued at 16.4 billion ringgit," CIMB
said in a statement.


"This represents the largest ever corporate transaction in
Malaysia and one of the largest buy-outs ever in the Asia Pacific
region," it said.


CIMB said Binariang on Wednesday had obtained "irrevocable
undertakings" from 15 firms who own a total 59.53 percent of
Maxis to accept the offer.


Usaha Tegas and affiliates accounted for 46 percent of Maxis'
total shareholding of 2.53 billion shares, with the remaining 13
percent owned by other private firms, CIMB officials said.


Binariang would also buy shares owned by employees in Maxis,
Malaysia's largest mobile operator, but CIMB did not give any
figures.


Maxis shares last traded at 13.00 ringgit before they were
suspended on the Malaysian bourse after reports about Ananda's
plan to take full control of the company broke.


Binariang chairman, Raja Arshad Raja Uda, said Maxis planned to
make substantial investments to expand overseas and by taking
full control, management will have greater flexibility to manage
its capital expenditure.


He told reporters Maxis will likely be re-listed on Malaysia's
bourse once its expansion plans have taken root and earnings have
stabilised.


"The privatisation will eliminate the impact of earnings
volatility on public shareholders," Raja Arshad said.


It will also "provide Binariang with the opportunity to
consolidate the company and seek a fresh listing ... on Bursa
Malaysia when it achieves a more stable earnings profile," he
said.

