

The US State Department, already struggling to fill its posts in
Iraq, must now cope with the problem of diplomats returning from
the war zone suffering the same stress-related trauma that has
afflicted many US combat troops.


To measure the extent of the problem, the department's medical
service will begin sending mental health surveys this month to
1,400 officials who have served in Iraq since the 2003 US-led
invasion which toppled Saddam Hussein, spokesman Tom Casey said.


Support groups will then be formed beginning in June to help
"alumni" from Iraq and other high-stress postings where diplomats
must serve without some or all of their family due to the dangers
involved, he said.


"Our Foreign Service officers, civil servants, contractors and
others are very much a part of the effort in Iraq, in Afghanistan
and in other very dangerous places throughout the world," Casey
said.


"That means that they run in many ways the kinds of risks that
some of our service members are from the Defense Department," he
said.


"Individuals make sacrifices not only in terms of being away from
their families or being in some difficult circumstances, but
occasionally it means that when they come back from the service,
they do have things that we need to help them with and help them
to be able to respond to," he said.


The surveys and support groups will be voluntary, designed to
help people suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder or
other ills.


While US diplomats have always served in dangerous and unstable
places, the number of these jobs has more than tripled since 2001
to about 750, including 200 posts in Iraq, according to Brenda
Greenberg of the department's human resources office.


Other unaccompanied posts -- jobs in countries where the risks
are so high that diplomats cannot bring their families -- include
Afghanistan, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, she said.


The State Department has already had to offer additional pay and
career incentives to entice foreign service officers to take up
the growing number of assignments in Iraq, where most diplomats
rarely leave the heavily fortified "Green Zone" in the capital.


But even in the zone, living conditions are sparse, with most
staff sleeping in small trailers, and rocket and mortar attacks
frequent.


The issue has become more acute since President George W. Bush
launched a new strategy for Iraq at the start of the year which
included a plan to double the number of so-called Provincial
Reconstruction Teams stationed around the country.


The mixed civilian-military teams are managed by foreign service
officers but staffed in large part by contractors, who will not
be covered by the State Department's survey or support groups.


One diplomat, who has served in several hardship postings and
spoke on condition of anonymity, played down suggestions there
was a surge in post-traumatic stress disorder problems.


"I'd take it with a grain of salt," he said.


The diplomat noted that the State Department already runs a
program of mandatory debriefings for people who spend more than
90 days in dangerous postings and that these provide guidance on
dealing with stress-related issues.

