

Turkey's parliament Thursday looked set to approve a ruling party
call for snap general elections aimed at resolving a damaging
crisis sparked by secularist objections to having a former
Islamist as president.


The vote is expected to go smoothly as Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) has a
comfortable majority in parliament and the opposition supports
the idea of early polls.


Erdogan had suggested bringing elections forward from November to
June 24, after Turkey's top court annulled a first-round
parliamentary vote to elect the next president, in which Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul is the sole candidate.


A parliamentary committee set the date at July 22 after the
Electoral Council said Wednesday that it could not organize the
polls earlier.


Gul was once a member of an Islamist party that was the main
precursor of the ruling AKP and was banned for anti-secular
activities. His wife wears the headscarf, seen by secularists as
a symbol of political Islam.


The prospect of having a former Islamist as president has divided
an already polarized society, sparked two mass secular
demonstrations two weeks apart and triggered a strong warning
from the army that it will intervene to protect the secular
regime if need be.


Many remain unconvinced by AKP arguments that it has disavowed
its Islamist past and suspect the party of having a secret agenda
that will erode the strict separation of state and religion.


They fear that, with Gul as president, the party will have a free
hand to implement Islamist policies without an effective control
mechanism. The outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer is a staunch
secularist who blocked many government proposals he deemed
unconstitutional.


Friday's first-round vote, in which Gul narrowly missed being
elected, was declared null and void after the Constitutional
Court ruled that parliament failed to establish the required
quorum.


Parliament is set to vote in a re-run of the first-round vote on
Sunday, but the opposition has already said it will boycott the
session as it did the first time, making it impossible for the
AKP to garner the necessary support.


Angered by the ruling, Erdogan said Wednesday that he would press
for far- reaching constitutional reforms, including a two-round
popular vote to elect the head of state.


Moving the early poll back from June to July has given his party
more time to push its reforms through parliament, which is
obliged to hold two separate rounds of voting on constitutional
amendments.


After voting on the snap poll, lawmakers are scheduled to debate
an amendment to set the age for parliamentary eligibility at 25
in the coming elections.


The AKP is expected to submit the remaining reforms to parliament
late Thursday.


Other than electing the president by popular suffrage, the
reforms propose modifying the presidency to run for a once-
renewable, five-year mandate instead of the current single,
seven-year term and holding legislative elections every four
years instead of the current five.


Erdogan has said he would like to hold general and presidential
elections at the same time if parliament enacts the amendments in
time.


The presidency in Turkey is largely ceremonial, but highly
symbolic.


The country's first president was Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who
founded the secular republic in 1923.


The president is responsible for approving legislation and
appointing key officials. He is also the commander-in-chief of
the Turkish army.

