

Britain has frozen aid to Sri Lanka in a bid to pressure the
government to improve its human rights record, officials said
Thursday.


Prime Minister Tony Blair's special peace envoy, Paul Murphy, is
also planning a visit to Sri Lanka, a former British colony, in
bid to help salvage the moribund peace process, diplomatic
sources said.


Murphy last visited in November and held talks with President
Mahinda Rajapakse as well as the leadership of the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in the rebel-held town of
Kilinochchi.


However, a visit by a group of British diplomats to Kilinochchi
Thursday for fresh talks with the Tigers was cancelled after the
Sri Lankan government told them to put off the visit, official
sources said.


The British High Commission spokesman declined to give details,
but said the planned meeting with the Tigers was "connected to
the peace process."


Sri Lankan officials said Colombo asked the envoys to delay the
visit due to security considerations. Last month, the government
made a similar request to peace broker Norway's top envoy Hans
Brattskar.


London's concern over the escalating violence in Sri Lanka was
discussed in the House of Commons on Wednesday, when both the
Colombo government and Tamil Tiger rebels came in for heavy
criticism.


A freeze on foreign aid to Sri Lanka was announced by
Parliamentary Under- Secretary of State for International
Development Gareth Thomas, who said half of Britain's financial
assistance to Sri Lanka was being withheld.


A High Commission spokesman said Britain's debt relief to Sri
Lanka this year was three million pounds (5.9 million dollars),
but half of it was being withheld because of rights concerns.


"The high commissioner (in Colombo) urged the Sri Lankan
government to respond to and address our concerns," Thomas said
in London Wednesday. "Further debt relief payments cannot be made
until that happens."


The Norwegian-backed peace efforts began unravelling from
December 2005 when the Tamil Tigers and government forces began
their latest wave of fighting, ignoring a truce put in place in
February 2002.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in fighting since
December 2005, according to Sri Lanka's defence ministry.


Britain has banned the Tamil Tigers since 2001 and has stepped up
moves to block foreign funding for the guerrillas, while at the
same time mounting pressure on Colombo to clean up its rights
record.


More than 700 people have "disappeared" in the past year and
security forces and para military units have been accused of
extra judicial killings, abductions and extortion.

