

For years they were seen as counter-cultural dangers by the
communist authorities, but rock and roll and the green movement
this week joined forces at China's biggest rock music festival.


Nearly 90 bands are playing the five stages at this year's Midi
Modern Music Festival, co-sponsored by the Greenpeace, in an
effort to raise environmental awareness among the country's
party-goers.


Opening day on Tuesday saw more than 50,000 concert-goers cram
Haidian Park in Beijing's university district. Up to 30,000 are
expected to attend day two and for the remainder of the festival
which ends Friday.


"It is all about youth and music, if you bring them good music
they are going to come back in bigger numbers," festival
organiser Zhang Fan told AFP.


"It looks like we are going to triple the number of concert-goers
this year compared to last year."


Chinese bands like Brain Failure, Catcher in the Rye and
Reflector have all produced "green songs" for the concert, while
former Eurythmics front man Dave Stewart and singer Imogene Heap
will close the festival Friday with the newly released Greenpeace
anthem "Go Green."


The festival, now in its eighth year, began in 2000 as a showcase
event for Zhang's Midi Music School, China's first-ever school
teaching modern music styles like rock, rap, jazz, techno and
blues.


But this is the first year it has been linked to the
environmental group.


The two join forces after slowly gaining acceptance in China:
Rock music has endured despite being frowned upon by the ruling
Communist Party, while Greenpeace was only recently allowed to
set up a branch in China.


"Definitely this is new, we are bringing together Greenpeace and
rock and roll," Zhang said.


"China needs to promote environmental protection and everyone
knows this is a good way to do it."


Greenpeace has more than 300 student volunteers at the festival,
while video clips of bands promoting environmental awareness are
shown on the big screen between music sets.


"Rock and roll is still a new thing in China, and environmental
protection is a new topic in China, so it is good that we finally
have this combination together," Greenpeace China spokesman Yu
Xin told AFP.


"The music is focusing on the youth and we feel that it is also
very important that the youth are aware of the huge environmental
problems facing China."


Greenpeace is also premiering in China its environmental
documentary "The Planet" which documents the impacts of global
warming and is being shown continuously at the organisation's
tent at the festival.


After a history of festivals being shut down by police at the
last moment or heavily restricted by a government wary of any
activities that could lead to opposition to the Communist Party,
rock and roll is slowly moving toward the Chinese mainstream,
organiser Zhang said.


Much of that is due to the Midi school that has sought to focus
on training musicians and entertainers on modern music
technology, while seeking to steer clear of the rebellious nature
of rock and roll, he said.


"The role of the Midi Festival in developing rock and roll in
China has been to let the government know that rock and roll is
not dangerous," Zhang said in an often repeated mantra of his
school.


"Government officials and police were here today and they
inspected everything and were very satisfied with the security at
the festival."

