

The Japanese premier on Thursday reiterated his call to revise
the post-war pacifist constitution, stirring more debate about
his attempt to strengthen the country's international influence.


The current constitution "needs to be revised as its basic
framework can no longer proceed with major changes in the
administration system, relations between central and local
governments, and foreign and security policies," Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe said in a statement.


The statement was issued on the 60th anniversary of the
constitution, that was imposed by US occupiers after World War II
and came into force on May 3, 1947.


Abe, the first Japanese Prime Minster born after World War II,
has repeatedly said he seeks to rewrite the text as part of his
vision of a more assertive Japan.


"Bravely reviewing the post-war regime and intensely discussing
the constitution ...leads to a spirit to create a new era," said
the statement issued in Tokyo in Abe's absence during his week-
long visit to the United States and the Middle East.


Supporters and opponents alike are preparing rallies to mark this
year's Constitution Day on Thursday, reflecting the divisive
nature of the plans of Abe, Japan's first premier born after
World War II.


The most contentious issue is Article Nine, which renounces the
right to maintain a military or even use of the threat of force
as a means of settling international disputes.


A group of conservative lawmakers, academics and journalists will
hold a forum in Tokyo to discuss how the constitution should be
changed, and plan to propose a broad outline for a new text.


Opponents meanwhile are organising a parade through the Ginza
shopping district to air their fears.


"We believe the movement to change the constitution is based on a
wish to scrap Article Nine," said a spokeswoman for Citizens
Opposed to Constitutional Revision, which is co-organising
Thursday's parade.


Latest polls conducted by local media show the majority of
Japanese voters feel it is time to revise the pacifist post-war
constitution, but still support Article Nine.


Liberals argue that any revision to Article Nine would take Japan
a step closer toward engaging in armed conflicts.


The current constitution bars Japan from using or even
threatening to use force as a way to settle international
disputes, although the country skirts the rule by calling its
troops "Self-Defence Forces."


Parliament is set to pass legislation on rules for a national
referendum on rewriting the constitution -- a move that would be
likely to anger Asian neighbours who suffered under Japan's
wartime aggression.


But Japan is far from an actual revision of its constitution as
such a project would require approval from two-thirds of
lawmakers before a draft goes to a public referendum.

