

The diaries of late US president Ronald Reagan, to be published
later this month, reveal a special animosity for Libyan leader
Moamer Kadhafi, a fondness for dancer Fred Astaire, and an
embarrassing incident involving Prince Charles and a tea bag.


Extracts of the diaries published in Vanity Fair magazine show a
sensitive side to the former president and provide a rare glimpse
into the closing chapters of the Cold War.


Reagan kept a diary throughout his eight years in power from
1981, only skipping days when he was in hospital, notably
following an assassination attempt in the first months of his
presidency.


The pages reveal his personal rapport with Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev, with whom he negotiated an end to the US-Soviet
nuclear arms race, and how his duties affected him personally.


A week after taking office, Reagan had to meet families of US
troops killed in a failed hostage rescue mission in Iran: "One
couple lost their only son. His widow was also here. I've had a
lump in my throat all day," he wrote.


He deftly jumped from personal matters to world events, as in a
March 4, 1981 entry:


"Our wedding anniversary. 29 years of more happiness than any man
could rightly deserve. A Pakistani plane was hijacked and landed
in Kabul."


Nine days later, though, he seems vulnerable, describing seeing
streets lined with supporters during a motorcade through New
York.


"I keep thinking this can't continue and yet their warmth &
affection seems so genuine I get a lump in my throat. I pray
constantly that I won't let them down."


His diary entry for the day he was shot in Washington, written
after being released from hospital, borders on the comical,
ending simply: "Getting shot hurts."


Reagan described a visit in 1981 by Britain's Prince Charles as
the "highlight" of the day, albeit marred by a faux pas: "The
ushers brought him tea -- horror of horrors they served it our
way with a tea bag in the cup... I didn't know what to do," he
wrote.


On the political stage, he describes Kadhafi as "a madman" and
"beneath contempt," while portraying then-Israeli defense
minister Ariel Sharon as "the bad guy who seemingly looks forward
to a war."


Family matters could be as troublesome. "I'm not talking to him
until he apologizes for hanging up on me," a wounded Reagan wrote
of his son Ron.


Other comments are disarming, such as this after meeting pop icon
Michael Jackson in May 1984: "I was surprised at how shy he is."


Recounting a 12-course banquet in China later that year, he said:
"We heeded Dick Nixon's advice & didn't ask what things were
-- we just swallowed them. There were a few items I managed to
stir around on my plate & leave. We both did well with our
chopsticks."


Famous for his relationship with Gorbachev and helping bring an
end to the Cold War, Reagan's first major mention of his Soviet
counterpart in March 1985, when Gorbachev rose to power, has
little sense of history. He only notes that he had to go to the
Soviet embassy to sign "the grief book" for the late leader
Konstantin Chernenko.


Having earlier said that Moscow seemed "paranoid about being
attacked," he later warms to "Gorby."


"There is no question in my mind but that a certain chemistry
does exist between us," he wrote in 1988.


His well-known sense of humor comes out in a February 1987 note
on then-Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.


"In Tehran the Iranians arrested an American press man (Wall St.
Journal) took his passport accused him of being a Zionist spy
& threw him in jail. He's a Roman Catholic. I'm ready to
kidnap the Khomeini."


The diaries are dotted with tributes to passing stars of stage
and screen,  such as Fred Astaire, who Reagan described as "a
truly wonderful man."


And his love for wife Nancy shines through consistently. In
September 1987 he wrote that Nancy was staying with friends. "As
usual I'm lonesome & so is Rex," the family dog.


On January 19th, 1989, his last day in office, his entry ends
simply "Tomorrow I stop being President."

