

Climate change experts battled for agreement Thursday on how to
fight global warming as crucial UN talks here entered their final
phase, with China railing against the cost of action, delegates
said.


Week-long negotiations between scientists from 120 nations are
expected to go well into the night here in Bangkok, before the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change unveils its findings on
Friday.


It will be the third and last of their reports this year, after
the first two looked into the evidence and potential impact of
global warming, but countries are struggling to find consensus on
exactly what should be done.


The economic impacts of reducing greenhouse gases that cause
global warming have proved to be the biggest sticking point this
week, but other issues such as whether to ramp up use of carbon-
clean nuclear power have also caused fierce debate, according to
delegates.


"The costs are the big 100,000-pound gorilla in the room," said a
source at the closed-door meeting on Thursday.


"The cost is the underlying threat for some and the underlying
opportunity for others."


Various delegates contacted by AFP said China has been the
leading voice in expressing concern about the costs.


It has sought more than 10 amendments to a draft of the report,
saying it will cost more and be harder to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions than detailed in the draft, according to documents
submitted to the IPCC and seen by AFP.


Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is measured in parts per million
(ppm), with today's levels close to 400 ppm but increasing
rapidly.


An early draft of the report seen by AFP says that if the world
wants to stabilise carbon dioxide in the atmosphere at 640 ppm by
2030, it would cost 0.2 percent of average global gross domestic
product (GDP).


A more ambitious target of 550 ppm, the draft says, would cost
0.6 percent of GDP, and stabilising CO2 in the atmosphere at 445
to 535 ppm by 2030 -- an unlikely scenario -- would be about
three percent of GDP.


China has said it does not agree with the estimates, according to
documents submitted to the IPCC.


Environmental groups have warned that even at 535 ppm, the world
will warm to an extremely dangerous level, causing droughts,
floods and other disasters, while at 640 ppm the impacts could be
catastrophic.


Traditionally, nations that are in favour of stringent measures
to battle climate change want the cost to appear relatively low,
while high-polluting nations who want to delay action are keen to
portray the price as high.


One delegate from a European nation said that China was trying to
water down every single statement relating to the cost of climate
change.


"They want the evidence as low as possible on what we know about
cost... China is trying to minimise the impact of the comments,"
the delegate said.


While countries battle it out over a percentage point of GDP,
green groups have stressed that it is not only the economic
impact nations should consider, but the environmental devastation
that climate change brings.


"The costs for ambitious emissions reduction are very low
compared to the dangers caused by climate change if they take no
action," said Stephan Singer, European head of climate and energy
policy at environmental group WWF

