

Colombian President Alvaro Uribe went onto a Washington sidewalk
Wednesday to confront demonstrators protesting his government's
alleged links to right-wing paramilitary groups and a free trade
deal with the United States.


About 100 protesters shouted "assassin" and chanted "No free
trade agreement" as Uribe, one of Washington's closest allies in
Latin America, headed into a conference in the US capital.


The Colombian leader, who has been fending off allegations both
in Bogota and Washington that his government has ties to
paramilitary groups involved in human rights violations and drug
trafficking, brushed off an aide to take up their challenge.


"I want to invite one, two or three of you to come and debate,"
he said to them.


"I want to invite one of you to take part in the meeting I am
going to have to explain your arguments."


Before that could happen, however, one of the protesters assailed
Uribe for bringing death to his family and the country.


"Can I have the right to respond?" Uribe asked.


"When I came to the presidency, much of Colombia had been under
the control of guerillas and paramilitaries. We have marshaled a
large force" against them, he said.


The confrontation came during a day of meetings in the White
House and elsewhere in Washington as Uribe sought to advance the
free trade agreement and convince US officials and legislators to
release millions in military aid to Colombia.


After their meeting early Wednesday, President George W. Bush
defended Uribe as "a true democrat, a strong leader, and a
friend" and called on Congress to approve the "strategic" free
trade deal.


"This agreement has strategic implications. It is very important
for this nation to stand with democracies that protect human
rights and human dignity; democracies based upon the rule of
law," Bush said.


The two leaders sought to counter accusations that Bogota has
maintained links to right-wing paramilitaries operating around
the country.


Those allegations have allowed Congress to block 55 million
dollars in military aid to Bogota.


At the State Department, Uribe insisted that his government did
not have relations with criminal groups.


"If I would have created alliances with criminals, for instance
with paramilitaries to defeat guerrillas, maybe we would have
been much more successful in defeating guerrillas," he said.


"However, for democratic reasons, for my duties with the new
generations of Colombians, for Christian convictions, the
decision we have made is one single decision: the only way
Colombia has to overcome terrorism is the institutional way."


Uribe described the trade agreement as "very important" and said
his country was committed to building "security with human
rights," fighting drug trafficking and terrorists, and promoting
social reforms.


"Today, because of the efficacy of our administration, the vast
majority of Colombians are convinced that we will defeat
terrorists by institutional ways; that the only way Colombia has
for the future is the way of our democratic institutions," said
Uribe, speaking in English.


On the street, Uribe continued to defend his record with the
demonstrators.


"One at a time," he told them. "What is the reason for me to come
here?" he asked, as they continued to shout against the trade
pact.


"Maybe I have to beg your pardon for errors, but never for
crimes," he insisted.


"What do you prefer, violence or debate?" he added.

