

Prince Harry's deployment to Iraq will be delayed for as long as
possible so that the rest of the soldiers in his unit can
acclimatise themselves to their surroundings, The Sun tabloid
reported in an early edition of its Thursday paper.


Both the Ministry of Defence and a spokesman for the prince
declined to comment on the report or details of his deployment.


According to the Sun, which cited an unidentified army source,
Harry will fly out to Iraq after the rest of his unit, who are
set to leave for the war-torn country this month.


"If the men are all familiar with their new surroundings before
Harry arrives, they will be far sharper to the dangers of the
inevitable first attack," the army source told the daily.


"Getting him out late is no bad thing for the rest of the lads."


The head of the British army said Monday that Harry would serve
in Iraq, despite fears that insurgents could target the third-in-
line to the throne.


"I have taken the decision as chief of general staff. It's my
decision as chief of general staff. I have full command of
everyone in the army, including Prince Harry," General Sir
Richard Dannatt said in a statement.


Dannatt said the decision had been taken after the "widest
possible consultation" but added that he could yet change his
mind if circumstances changed.


Harry, second son the Prince Charles and the late Diana, Princess
of Wales, will be responsible for 11 soldiers and four Scimitar
reconnaissance vehicles.


April has been one of the deadliest months for British forces in
Iraq since the US-led invasion of March 2003. To date 12 lives
have been lost, including a corporal doing Harry's armoured
reconnaissance troop leader job.


Were he to serve in Iraq, Harry would become the first British
royal to see active service since his uncle Prince Andrew flew
helicopters in the 1982 Falklands War with Argentina.


Britain has about 7,100 troops in Iraq, most of whom are in Basra
and surrounding areas, but the government is planning to withdraw
about 1,600 this year.

