

Asian giants India and China have reopened trade via a famed
alpine Silk Road route a month earlier than scheduled in response
to demands from businesses on both sides, a local official said
Thursday.


"Trading was earlier scheduled to begin June 1 and last till
September 30," said Saman Prasad Subba, director of industry and
commerce in the tiny state of Sikkim, wedged between India and
Tibet.


"But the two countries agreed to demands by traders to allow
business from May 1 to November 30," Subba told AFP by telephone.


"A total of 29 Chinese traders came to the Indian side with items
while 13 people from India crossed over to China in the first two
days of trading."


India and China first started trade across the 15,000-feet
(4,545-metre) Nathu La Pass, 52 kilometres (32 miles) east of
Sikkim's capital Gangtok, last July as part of efforts to mend
ties dogged by a bitter border war in 1962.


Indian officials say the move marked Beijing's recognition of
India's sovereignty over previously disputed Sikkim state.


Tibet's commerce department says bilateral trade last year
through Nathu La totalled about 190,000 dollars.


While about 900 Chinese traders crossed into India through the
border marked by a rusty barbed wire to the bazaar of Sherathang,
400 Indians headed to the Renqinggang interim market in Tibet.


Businessmen from both sides of the border were now seeking a
broadening of the list of items traded through the Nathu-La pass.


At present India imports 15 items from China including silk, yak
pelts and horses, and exports 29 goods that include textiles,
tea, rice, vegetables and herbs.


"The present list of import-export should be widened ... The list
of goods notified for transaction is a list prepared long ago and
has to be upgraded," said S.K. Sarda, president of the Sikkim
Chamber of Commerce.


"We understand the governments of the two countries were actively
considering revising the tradable items list to make business at
the border more robust and vibrant," he said.


The Sikkim government will also urge New Delhi to sign a pact
with Beijing to allow tourists to use the border pass.


"At present, only traders are allowed to cross over and if
tourism is opened it would be economically beneficial for both
countries," Subba added.

