

The NATO military alliance on Thursday pledged its support to
Estonia in a bitter row with Russia triggered by the removal of a
Soviet war memorial from the centre of Tallinn.


In a statement issued in Brussels, NATO said it "is deeply
concerned by threats to the physical safety of Estonian
diplomatic staff, including the Ambassador, in Moscow, as well as
intimidation at the Estonian Embassy."


The statement called for the "unacceptable" actions to be stopped
immediately, and for the seething row between Moscow and Tallinn
over the removal of a Soviet war memorial from the centre of the
Estonian capital to be resolved through diplomatic channels.


"NATO urges the Russian authorities to implement their
obligations under the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations,"
the statement said.


In a telephone call late Wednesday to Estonian President Toomas
Hendrik Ilves, NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer had
pledged the alliance's support for Estonia, a member of the
military alliance since 2004, and expressed concern about
Russia's behaviour toward its small neighbouring state.


The small Baltic state was plunged into its worst diplomatic
crisis since independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week
when the authorities in Tallinn removed a Soviet war memorial
from the city centre.


That sparked riots, which raged through Tallinn on Thursday and
Friday last week.


Anti-Estonian demonstrations have been held in Ukraine and
Russia. In Moscow, members of a pro-Kremlin youth movement began
a blockade of the Estonian embassy.


On Wednesday, as the row escalated, they tried to attack the
Baltic state's ambassador to Russia. Family members of staff
working at the embassy have been evacuated.


The actions outside the Moscow embassy have provoked an
international outcry, with several European Union members and the
United States backing Estonia and urging Russia to respect
diplomatic conventions.


"The relocation of a Second World War grave marker or monument is
Estonia's internal affair," the NATO secretary general was quoted
by the Estonian presidency as saying in the phone conversation
with Ilves.


De Hoop Scheffer also condemned an anti-Estonian propaganda
campaign initiated by Russia, and expressed concern about cyber
attacks on Estonian state institutions, the presidency said.


Ilves confirmed to the NATO chief that cyber-attacks that forced
Estonian government websites to shut down temporarily came from
computers in the Russian administration, according to the
statement.


Last year, Estonia, which is a global leader in IT solutions,
proposed setting up a cyber defence centre for NATO.


The NATO Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence would open in Estonia
in 2008, if the military alliance approves its creation.


Estonia ranks in front of the 15 older EU members and just behind
the United States on a World Bank list of countries that are well
prepared for a knowledge- based society.


The war memorial at the heart of the row with Moscow is seen by
Russians as a memorial to Red Army soldiers who died fighting
fascism but by Estonians as a bitter reminder of 50 years of
Soviet occupation.


Estonia was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union at the
end of World War II, only regaining independence in 1991 as the
USSR crumbled.

