

A private equity bid for Australia's iconic airline Qantas will
fail unless a late rush of shareholders accepts the offer before
it closes Friday, figures posted by the consortium showed
Thursday.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) said shareholder acceptances for
its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) bid had reached 32.92
percent by close of business Wednesday, up from 25.94 percent on
Tuesday.


But acceptances must reach at least 50 percent before 7:00 pm
local time (0900 GMT) Friday to prevent APA's takeover bid from
lapsing.


It will be automatically extended by two weeks if the Macquarie-
led consortium can reach the 50 percent level before the
deadline.


BBY aviation analyst Fabian Babich expected the consortium to
succeed in winning an extension, giving it a fortnight to try to
gain the 70 percent needed for the bid to succeed.


He said a late rush of acceptances was normal in such takeovers
and the effect had been exacerbated by the influence of hedge
funds seeking to benefit from APA's Qantas play.


"It will be a photo-finish but (APA) will get there in the end,"
Babich told AFP.


"The hedge funds will drag it out as long as possible because
they want to snap up as many Qantas shares as they can at 5.25,
5.30 (dollars), knowing that they're going to get 5.45 from APA a
short way down the track.


"That 10 or 15 cents difference represents an annualised return
of 40 percent- plus -- that's a red-hot return."


Another factor creating uncertainty around the Qantas bid is the
refusal of institutional investor Balanced Equity Management to
accept APA's offer, saying it undervalues an airline that is
experiencing boom conditions.


Balanced Equity's managing director Andrew Sisson said recently
the aviation market's outlook had improved dramatically since APA
originally pitched its 5.45 dollars offer late last year and that
6.45 dollars would now be a fairer price.


"At the beginning, we were fairly close to the price we thought
was reasonable," he said.


"Things that have happened since then mean we are a long way from
the price.


"In fact, we think (Qantas) represents one of the better value
stocks in the market at the moment so we would be a buyer (of
shares) rather than a seller."


Qantas' share price has increased by more than 20 percent since
the bid was launched. Other airlines have also soared, with
budget carrier Virgin Blue enjoying a 30 percent rise over the
same period and Air New Zealand almost doubling.


Qantas has also issued three profit upgrades since the bid was
made and there is speculation that strong forward booking figures
will soon result in a fourth.


APA has warned investors the Qantas share price will plummet if
the bid lapses and has taken out full-page advertisements in
national newspapers in a bid to woo shareholders.


It has also lowered its minimum share acceptance level from 90 to
70 percent and promised to pay shareholders more swiftly if they
accept the offer.


The Qantas board has unanimously backed the bid and APA has
pledged to retain the existing management team and pay them
generous bonuses if the deal proceeds.


The takeover consortium is led by Australia's biggest investment
bank, Macquarie, and includes US private equity giant Texas
Pacific Group, Canadian investor Onex, and Australia's Allco
Finance Group and Allco Equity Partners.


Under the takeover proposal, Allco Equity would emerge as the
largest Qantas stakeholder with 35 percent, Allco Finance will
have 11 percent, Macquarie Bank 14.7 percent and Onex Corp nine
percent. Texas Pacific and other foreign investment funds will
each have less than 15 percent.

