

After facing down a mutiny from his own party over a scathing
Lebanon war report, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert faced a
new battle on Thursday with street protests and angry lawmakers.


Opposition leaders in parliament were expected to demand that the
prime minister step down during an extraordinary session to
discuss the interim government inquiry that blasted Olmert for
serious failure in the 34-day war.


Late Thursday, thousands were expected to echo the calls at a
rally in Tel Aviv's Rabin Square at the first mass public protest
after the publication of the damning report.


"This demonstration is an occasion for people to show a red card
to Ehud Olmert and (Defence Minister) Amir Peretz and tell them
that they should step down," reserve General Uzi Dayan, an
organiser of the protest, told army radio.


Olmert has resisted enormous pressure to step down after the
release of the report on Monday, saying it would be
irresponsible, and has vowed that his government would work to
correct the mistakes uncovered by the inquiry.


On Tuesday the beleaguered premier put a lid on a rebellion
within his Kadima party despite a call to quit by top aide
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and the resignation of the chief of
the party's parliamentary bloc.


"The prospect of a putsch within Kadima's ranks has burst like a
soap bubble, along with the fear of a ministerial mass desertion
that could topple Olmert's government," wrote the liberal Haaretz
newspaper.


Following a late-night meeting of Kadima's 29 deputies in the
120-seat Knesset, Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres emerged
saying Olmert had received "unprecedented support" from the MPs.
Only two MPs supported Livni's call for Olmert to step down.


"He may be a failed prime minister, but he is a fairly good
politician," wrote the tabloid Maariv.


"The most criticised man in the State of Israel succeeded, at
least for now, to stabilise his party and coalition and head off
-- with relative ease -- the mutiny that never was," wrote the
mass-selling Yediot Aharonot.


Livni failed to rally support within Kadima by not backing her
call for Olmert to step down with her own resignation, observers
said.


"She could have established herself yesterday," wrote Maariv.
"Instead she sold out. Big time."


Although the opposition can try and push through a no-confidence
vote in Olmert's government at its session on Thursday, the
measure is unlikely to pass as the premier still enjoys the
support of his 78-member coalition in the 120-seat Knesset.


And a senior aide to the premier warned that Thursday's Tel Aviv
rally was unlikely to persuade him to leave his post even if it
attracts tens of thousands of people, as hoped by the organisers.


"Whatever its amplitude it will not force Ehud Olmert to step
down from his office," Tal Silberstein, a senior advisor, told
army radio. "The prime minister cannot react to polls and
demonstrations."


Most recent polls show that between 65 and 68 percent of Israelis
want Olmert to resign, and that only six percent think he is
capable of carrying out the functions of his office.


Israel launched the war on Hezbollah after the Shiite militia
seized two soldiers in a deadly cross-border raid on July 12. The
war killed more than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and more
than 160 Israelis, mostly soldiers, according to government
figures.


It is widely regarded as a failure in Israel because it did not
achieve its two main objectives -- freeing two captured
servicemen and stopping Hezbollah rocket fire.

