

Sri Lanka's skipper Mahela Jayawardene returned home expressing
disappointment over his team's failure to secure the cricket
World Cup, but said they lost to a better Australian team.


Cricket fans lined up along the team's route from the
international airport despite heavy rains which lashed the city,
after the World Cup runners-up landed after their eight-week
Caribbean campaign.


"We ended up short after putting up a determined effort, the
outcome is obviously disappointing," the Sri Lankan captain said.
"Australians were faster off the blocks than us."


Sri Lanka, a pre-tournament favourite, was pipped at the post by
Ricky Ponting's marauding Australian team who had carried all
before them in the run up to the final.


Jayawardene looking back on the final said: "Our bowlers couldn't
get any movement, but that was more due to the conditions than
anything to do with the ability of Vaas, Malinga and Dilhara."


A brilliant Adam Gilchrist hit a swashbuckling 149 off just 129
balls with eight sixes and, with Matthew Hayden, put on 172 for
the first wicket in 22 of the 38-over Australian innings.


"We were looking for early wickets which was not to be. That set
us back," Jayawardene said adding that all Sri Lankan plans in
the tournament until then had fallen into place.


"We had given different players different roles and everyone
played their part very well," Jayawardene said, summing up Sri
Lanka's run up to the final.


He dismissed the notion that losing the toss to Ponting in the
final was a major setback. "We did not care about the toss,
throughout the tournament our focus was on winning the game
irrespective of what happened at the toss."


The Sri Lankan captain said the team was determined to achieve
the daunting run rate of more than seven runs an over when they
were chasing the mammoth Australian total of 281.


"We were going well when rain and the darkness fell around us,"
he said. He was aware that umpires Bucknor and Dar had erred when
they told Ricky Ponting that the game will be carried over to
Sunday's reserve day when the game was halted due to bad light.


"We knew we lost the world cup the moment our batsmen accepted
bad light because we had completed 20 overs by then," he said.

