

Community groups should play a bigger role in the fight against
terrorism, a Singapore minister told an international forum here
Thursday, saying police and military action were not enough.


Beefing up security measures would remain the first line of
defence against such threats, but communities could challenge the
extremist ideology that fuels them, said Senior Minister for Law
and Home Affairs Ho Peng Kee.


"We cannot afford to only rely on the police and security
services to guarantee our long-term security," he told diplomats,
academics and foreign ministry officials.


"Ultimately, it rests on whole communities to come together in a
consolidated effort to challenge and defeat the extremist
ideologies and keep our society together."


Ho cited Singapore's rehabilitation programme for detained
members of the Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) militant group linked to an
alleged plot to bomb US and other foreign targets in the city-
state in 2001.


Comprised of volunteer Islamic scholars and leaders, the
Religious Rehabilitation Group aims "to correct JI members'
distorted understanding of their religion which had been fed to
them by their leaders," Ho said.


Under the programme, core doctrinal concepts in the JI ideology
are identified and refuted. The detained members are also given
counselling.


Home Affairs Minister Wong Kan Seng said last month three of the
JI members arrested over the alleged bomb plot were freed after
they cooperated in the investigation and were rehabilitated.


Ten are still being held under the Internal Security Act which
allows for detention without trial.


Singapore has also taken steps to prevent militants from "sowing
seeds of distrust and animosity" in the ethnically diverse nation
through a community engagement programme, which aims to maintain
social harmony in the event of a national crisis, Ho said.


"Terrorism developments can potentially lead to increased
polarisation," he said.


"This is where the public at large can take active steps to build
bridges and defuse misunderstandings between and within
communities to improve the situation."


The two-day Singapore meeting, which focuses on counter-terrorism
efforts, was held under the auspices of the ASEAN Regional Forum,
Asia's premier security dialogue involving 26 nations, including
the United States, Russia, China and Japan.


The Association of Southeast Asian Nations groups Brunei,
Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

