

Perched high on a cliff side in the remote borderlands of eastern
Georgia, the ancient Davit Gareji monastery hardly seems the kind
of place that could be at the centre of a modern-day diplomatic
dispute.


Monks settled on this arid land in the early 600s, less than 200
years after Georgia became one of the first countries to adopt
Christianity. They carved their homes into the stone and over the
centuries built churches and towers that loom overhead on the
long road to the monastery.


A handful of black-robed Georgian Orthodox monks still live here
much as their forebears did, maintaining long-held traditions of
seclusion and reflection. The modern world intrudes only in the
form of occasional tourists on day-trips from the Georgian
capital Tbilisi, about 85 kilometres (55 miles) away.


Behind the monastery grounds, a narrow trail snakes up to a stony
ridge from where it becomes clear why Davit Gareji is threatening
the attempts of two ex- Soviet neighbours to build closer ties.


From one side of the ridge, eastern Georgia spreads out below at
the foot of the snow-capped Caucasus Mountains. On the other, a
steep drop leads down to the western steppes of Muslim
Azerbaijan.


But neither country can agree on exactly where the border lies
and tempers have flared in recent weeks with both sides claiming
the land Davit Gareji sits on as their own.


"This is a holy place, but unfortunately that doesn't mean we are
immune from politics," said Zaza Datunashvili, a heavily bearded
novice monk at Davit Gareji.


More than 15 years after they became independent countries
following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Georgia and
Azerbaijan have yet to resolve claims over about 35 percent of
their shared border.


Despite their cultural and religious differences, the two
countries have become increasingly close, especially as relations
with Russia have faltered over their increasingly pro-Western
foreign policies.


They have worked in tandem to build a corridor of oil and gas
pipelines to ship Caspian Sea reserves through their territory to
Western markets. When Russia cut off gas supplies to Georgia a
few months ago, Azerbaijan boosted its gas exports to Georgia to
fill the gap.


In February, oil-rich Azerbaijan loaned Georgia 200 million
dollars (147 million euros) to finance its share of a new railway
link from the Azerbaijani capital Baku, through Georgia, to the
Turkish city of Kars.


But new friendships can be fragile in the patchwork of nations
around the Caucasus Mountains on Russia's southern border.
Memories here are long and ancient claims not easily set aside.


The border dispute reignited when Azerbaijan's deputy foreign
minister, Khalaf Khalafov, told a press conference in April that
it was "out of the question" for Azerbaijan to give up its claims
to the borderlands that include Davit Gareji.


Khalafov, the co-chairman of a joint border commission, then
controversially said the monastery actually belonged to the
Caucasian Albanian culture -- an early Christian civilization in
what is now Azerbaijan.


Authorities in Azerbaijan also say the region is on strategic
high ground and is essential to maintaining the country's
security.


Khalafov's statement drew angry responses from Georgia.


"It is absolutely unclear to me why my colleague made these
remarks," Georgian Foreign Minister Gela Bezhuashvili told
reporters in Tbilisi. "His history lessons are absolutely
incomprehensible. He should read up on world history."


The patriarch of the Georgian Orthodox Church, Ilya II, said the
monastery was a holy shrine that must lie entirely on Georgian
soil. Protesters rallied outside the Azerbaijani embassy and the
Georgian foreign ministry in Tbilisi.


Senior officials, including Georgian President Mikheil
Saakashvili, have downplayed the dispute, saying it can be
resolved through friendly dialogue.


But neither side appears willing to give ground.


"Georgians will never, under any circumstances, give up this
territory," said Giga Bukia, a member of the Georgian parliament
with the opposition Conservative Party, which has accused the
government of softening its position on Davit Gareji in order to
secure financial aid from Azerbaijan.


"Azerbaijan has absolutely no historical rights to this land," he
said. "And what is this talk of it being a strategic location?
Are they planning to go to war with Georgia?"


In Baku, historian Ismail Umudlu said there was ample evidence of
Azerbaijan's historic claim to the site, which Azerbaijanis call
Keshish Dagh.


The monks who first settled at Davit Gareji were missionaries
from Syria who spread Christianity not only in present-day
Georgia but also in the ancient Caucasian kingdom of Albania,
which controlled the territory of Azerbaijan before the arrival
of the Azeri Turks and their conversion to Islam.


Umudlu said the territory including the monastery only became
part of Georgia in the 12th century, after the Caucasus Albanian
culture had disappeared.


"This is a sacred place in Azerbaijani history as well and we are
not required to give it up simply because it is not Muslim,"
Umudlu said.


Datunashvili, standing at the foot of the monastery's gate,
scoffed at those claims. He said Georgian inscriptions found at
Davit Gareji date back to the sixth century and that there are no
traces of another culture at the monastery.


"The idea that this monastery was founded by the Caucasus
Albanians is simply absurd," he said. "You might as well say that
Georgians built the Great Wall of China."

