

Chinese star hurdler Liu Xiang is expecting victory at the Japan
Grand Prix this weekend as he builds towards his ultimate goal of
a world championship gold medal later this year.


With the withdrawal of sprint great Maurice Greene, the 23-year-
old Shanghai- based 110-metre world record holder is the star
attraction and knows the track well -- he has won here on his
last three visits.


"I am trying my best to keep my 100 percent record in Osaka. The
race is very important to me." said Liu. "A victory will give me
more confidence to win in August."


The world championships, the last major athletics event before
the Beijing Olympics in 2008, will be held at the same stadium
here in August.


In 2004, Liu set a new Asian record for his first victory here,
setting the scene for his performance at the Athens Olympics
where he equalled the previous world record of 12.91 to become
Asia's first Olympic track gold medallist.


Liu then broke the 13-year-old world mark by clocking 12.88 at
the Super Grand Prix in Lausanne in July last year and he now
holds three of the top 10 all-time performances ever.


On Saturday, the Doha Asian Games gold medallist will take on the
men he beat into silver and bronze, China's Shi Dongpeng and
Japan's Masato Naito respectively, as well as Paulo Villar of
Colombia and Jared Macleod of Canada.


Shi marked his personal best when he finished runner-up to Liu in
Doha in December.


A total of seven Olympic and nine world medallists will take part
in the event, the third leg of the 13-round IAAF Grand Prix
series, with Sydney Olympic sprint champion Greene the major
absentee.


The three-time world champion failed to recover from a dental
operation for what would have been only his second competitive
appearance this year.


The 100m race will now be between Americans Marcus Brunson, who
marked his personal best of 9.99 last season, and Jason Smoots,
as well as Australia's Joshua Ross and Japan's Shingo Suetsugu.


Dual world champion and Olympic silver medallist Lauryn Williams
will lead the women's 100m against Cydonie Mothersill of the
Cayman Islands, Lucimar Moura of Brazil and Australia's Melanie
Kleeberg.


Other prominent athletes include Americans Jeremy Wariner and
Darold Williamson in the 400m, as well as Americans Bershawn
Jackson and James Carter and Japan's world bronze medallist Dai
Tamesue in the 400m hurdles.

