

The NATO military alliance has joined organisations and nations
pledging their support to Estonia in a bitter row with Russia
over a Soviet war memorial, the Estonian presidency said
Thursday.


In a telephone call late Wednesday to Estonian President Toomas
Hendrik Ilves, NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer
pledged the alliance's support for Estonia and expressed serious
concern about Russia's behaviour toward its small neighbouring
state.


Scheffer said that Russia should immediately free the Estonian
Embassy in Moscow from the blockade of demonstrators, terminate
its violation of the Vienna Convention, and guarantee the
security of Estonian diplomats, the Estonian president's office
said in a statement.


Estonia was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis since
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when the
authorities in Tallinn removed a Soviet war memorial from the
centre of the capital.


Riots sparked by the statue's removal raged through Tallinn on
Thursday and Friday last week, when members of a pro-Kremlin
youth movement began a blockade of the Estonian embassy in
Moscow.


On Wednesday, they tried to attack the Baltic state's ambassador
to Russia. Family members of staff working at the embassy have
been evacuated.


"The relocation of a Second World War grave marker or monument is
Estonia's internal affair," the NATO secretary general was quoted
by the Estonian presidency as saying in the phone conversation
with Ilves.


De Hoop Scheffer also condemned an anti-Estonian propaganda
campaign initiated by Russia, and expressed concern about cyber
attacks on Estonian state institutions.


Ilves confirmed to the NATO chief that cyber-attacks that forced
Estonian government websites to shut down temporarily came from
computers in the Russian administration, according to the
statement.


The statue at the heart of the row is seen by Russians as a
memorial to Red Army soldiers who died fighting fascism but by
Estonians as a bitter reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation.


Estonia was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union at the
end of World War II, only regaining independence in 1991 as the
USSR crumbled.


The small Baltic state joined NATO and the EU in 2004.

