

The Singapore Airlines-backed budget carrier Tiger Airways will
base itself in Melbourne when it launchs an assault on the
Australian avaiation market, the Victoria state government said
Thursday.


Victorian Premier Steve Bracks trumpeted the move as a coup for
Australia's second-largest city, saying it would generate up to
1,000 jobs.


"Melbourne will host Tiger Airways' new Australian head office,
facilities for aircraft maintenance and crew training, and its
start-up fleet," Bracks said in a statement.


Tiger announced in February that it was seeking clearance from
Canberra to begin operating in Australia before the end of the
year.


The airline has helped revolutionise travel in Southeast Asia
with its low-cost offerings and said it planned to do the same in
Australia, bringing in the no- frills, ultra-cheap model
pioneered in Europe by Ryanair.


Its entry is expected to spark a price war in the Australian
market, where dominant player Qantas has already set up a budget
arm, Jetstar, and discount carrier Virgin Blue is well
established.


In Singapore, the company said it "went through a thorough and
detailed selection process and chose Melbourne.


"The Air Operator's Certificate process is on track and we are
now talking to a variety of cities about destination
opportunities so that we can start planning our route network,"
Tiger Airways chief executive Tony Davis said in a statement.


Davis added that the carrier is talking to a number of cities
about the possibility of a second base in Australia.


During the first year of operations in Australia, the airline
expects to carry about two million passengers.


The airline's entry into the Melbourne market should boost
tourism and put "an end to the inflated fares being charged by
the current airline duopoly," the statement said, without
mentioning the airlines.


Tiger Airways currently operates four flights a week from Darwin
to Singapore and daily between Perth and Singapore.


In March, the local unit Tiger Airways Australia Pty Ltd was
incorporated in Australia's Northern Territory state.


The budget carrier is 49 percent owned by Singapore Airlines.
Irishman Tony Ryan, founder of the wildly successful Ryanair,
also has a 16 percent stake.

