

Scotland's 1998 world champion John Higgins became the favourite
to land the world snooker championship for the second time on
Wednesday after he ousted previous favourite Ronnie 'Rocket'
O'Sullivan 13 frames to 9 in their quarter- final.


Higgins had effectively done the hard work in the second session
of the match earlier on Wednesday, moving from the overnight
score of 4-4 to 11-5 ahead.


O'Sullivan, a two-time champion and who had showed sparks of his
best form throughout the tournament without totally convincing,
did win four of the frames in the third and final session but
Higgins held his nerve to take the match.


Higgins admitted that the morning session had been decisive when
O'Sullivan was way below his usual fluent self.


"It was just about keeping my composure at the end," said
Higgins.


"The standard wasn't that great in the first four of the morning
session, Ronnie didn't play that well at all, but the final four
frames were the turning points in the match.


"Obviously he was the favourite, he's a great player, he's won
everything, but I fancied winning. I have beat him a few times
and backed myself to win the match."


While O'Sullivan was unable to stage a miracle fightback, another
former champion Shaun Murphy did as he came from 12-5 down to
Welshman Matthew Stevens to beat him 13-12 and give his opponent
a case of deja vu as the Englishman had beaten him in the 2005
final.


Murphy - who will play Higgins in the semi-finals - could
scarcely believe he had managed to pull it off.


"I went to bed last night and never believed I could do it.


"Everyone says 'you can do it' but you never believe you can.


"I just hacked away at his lead and before I knew it, I was
shaking his hand at the end."


One person missing from the Crucible audience to witness the
drama was Murphy's father, Tony who hasn't spoken to his son for
over a year after a falling out.


"It's a great shame," Murphy junior said.


"Everyone has trouble with their family, and I'm no different.


"The door's always open, I've been waiting for him to pick up the
phone - my number hasn't changed.


"He's not here but if he picks the phone up and sorts it out,
he'd be welcome."


Higgins was joined in Thursday's semi-finals by compatriot
Stephen Maguire, who saw off four-time quarter-finalist England's
Anthony Hamilton 13-7.


He will play either the surprise packet of the tournament,
English qualifier Mark Selby or another Englishman Ali Carter
with the former having held the lead practically throughout the
match, though the latter had pulled it back to 11-11 as the clash
threatened to go into the early hours of the morning.

