

The prize asset of Dow Jones & Co. is the Wall Street
Journal, which dates back to 1889 and is the most prominent daily
business publication in the United States, and perhaps in the
world.


Dow Jones also operates a financial news wire, other newspapers
and magazines and a number of Internet sites including that of
the Wall Street Journal.


The second biggest daily newspaper in the United States by
circulation, the WSJ has more than two million subscribers in the
United States, and 788,000 for its Internet version.


Online, the WSJ and the British financial newspaper Financial
Times are among the few news sites that are able to charge
subscription fees.


On a global scale, the Wall Street Journal's European edition has
a circulation of 88,000 and Asian edition 80,000, and is
considered by many the newspaper of record for global business.


Thanks to its 600 veteran journalists, the WSJ is considered one
of the most reliable sources of economic information. But it also
known, and at times criticized, for its libertarian editorials.


The newspaper is a standby for top business leaders, and counts
on its faithful readers to appreciate its somewhat austere
presentation and its celebrated drawings, instead of photographs,
of the world's movers and shakers.


The daily was created on July 8, 1889 by the three founders of
the Dow Jones group -- Charles Dow, Edward Jones and Charles
Bergstresser. It was bought in 1902 by its Boston correspondent,
Charles Barron.


It is Barron's relatives, the Bancrofts, who still control the
newspaper today.


The journal has won dozens of Pulitzer prizes, the highest award
in US journalism.


This year it won two Pulitzers -- one for reporting on the
backdating of stock options and the other on the downside of
capitalism in China.


Though it has proved more resilient to Internet competition than
many other US newspapers, profits have fallen, weighing on the
bottom line of parent Dow Jones & Co., whose profit plunged
63 percent in the first three months of 2007.


Other Dow Jones consumer media assets include magazines Barron's
and Far Eastern Economic Review; financial news website
MarketWatchw Jones; and The Wall Street Journal Radio Network.


The group also owns Dow Jones Newswire, and manages the Dow Jones
Indexes, including the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average,
financial services and regional newspaper interests.


The company's strategic alliances include Vedomosti, a joint
venture with Pearson, publisher of the Financial Times, and
Independent Media founded in 1999; and STOXX Ltd., a joint
venture with Frankfurt stock-exchange operator Deutsche Boerse
and SWX Group.


Dow Jones had net income of 22.6 million dollars in the most
recent quarter on revenues of 507 million.

