

South and North Korea are to hold their first top-level military
talks in a year to discuss reducing tensions and starting cross-
border railway links, a minister said Thursday.


Unification Minister Lee Jae-Joung said generals from the two
sides would meet from Tuesday to Thursday next week at the truce
village of Panmunjom, inside the heavily fortified border zone.


"General-level talks will start on Tuesday," a ministry spokesman
quoted him as telling a seminar.


North Korea had proposed the general-level talks in response to
Seoul's request for a lower-level military meeting to prepare for
the first test runs of railways across their frontier in half a
century.


"The purpose of the talks is to discuss military security
measures for the test runs of the railways," said the minister,
in charge of relations with the North.


"But there will also be discussions about military tension
reduction and a peace settlement on the Korean peninsula as this
is the first (general-level) meeting since North Korea carried
out its nuclear test."


Relations between the two nations, which have remained
technically at war since the 1950-53 conflict, soured after the
North's missile launches last July and nuclear test last October.


They improved after the North agreed in principle in February to
scrap its nuclear programme as part of a multinational deal.


Following a historic inter-Korean summit in 2000, the two sides
completed laying tracks alongside cross-border roads that opened
in 2005 for limited traffic.


Seoul asked last year that the North's military provide a safety
guarantee for the two lines, in the west and on the east coast.


But the last general-level meeting in May 2006 ended without
agreement on redrawing a disputed maritime border or on safety
guarantees for the railways.


Officials said separately that President Roh Moo-Hyun has invited
Russian President Vladimir Putin to visit South Korea for talks
on joint projects including plans for a Korea-Russia railway.


The invitation was extended last month when former Prime Minister
Han Myeong- Sook visited Moscow to attend former leader Boris
Yeltsin's funeral.


A government official said Seoul "has no intention of rushing"
into the costly and complicated project to link the Trans-
Siberian railway and a planned Trans- Korean railway.


Such a project would create a land bridge for freight between
Korea and Europe.


But apart from securing agreement to open the border for trains,
the North's crumbling rail infrastructure north of the frontier
would also have to be upgraded before it could go ahead.

