

US-based Texas Instruments said Thursday it is investing one
billion dollars to expand its operations in the Philippines.


The investment on an assembly and test site was announced by
Philippine President Gloria Arroyo and senior officials of the
Dallas-based firm, the world's biggest producer of chips for
mobile telephones.


When completed, the plant will double the output of TI's 28 year-
old production unit in the northern Philippine resort of Baguio.


TI said work on the 77,000 square-meter (829,000 square-foot)
site would begin in July or August at the Clark Economic Zone, a
former US air base north of Manila, with construction and the
installation of equipment to be completed by the end of next
year.


"It is expected to eventually employ about 3,000 workers and will
double the capacity that TI has in the Philippines," a company
statement said.


"Once built, we expect to quickly ramp the site (up) with the
help of our experienced team in Baguio, where we've had
assembly/test operations for almost three decades," Kevin
Ritchie, TI senior vice president for technology and
manufacturing said in the statement.


Initial production is set to start in the second half of next
year.


"The competition for this investment was fierce but we are
thankful that Texas Instruments finally chose the Philippines,"
Arroyo said.


Ritchie later told reporters the company looked at "various
countries and various locations" based on the availability and
quality of the labour force as well as investment incentives
offered by the potential hosts.


"At the end of the day, what brought us back to the Philippines
was really the performance of our site in Baguio," he added.


"The Baguio site is one of the best sites we have ... The quality
of the people there, the quality of the operation give us high
confidence that we'd be able to start up a new site and have a
succesful new site."


Arroyo said TI officials told her the Clark production site "will
not just be an expansion of the Baguio operations, there will be
new and more sophisticated products produced there as well."


TI officials did not elaborate.


Its Baguio operation conducts final assembly and testing of
semiconductors for the computer, aerospace, telecommunications
and automotive industries.


Assembly and test operations are the final step in semiconductor
manufacturing before the chips are shipped to customers.

