

Scientists believe that finding a way to bury the world's
greenhouse gas problem -- quite literally -- could be an
important step to curbing climate change, but the technology is
still in its infancy.


The technology would capture carbon dioxide released by power
plants or other factories, transport it and bury it underground
-- either in old oil fields or coal mines, or even at the bottom
of the ocean.


Once the gas is buried, it would no longer contribute to global
warming.


"That is among the options" being considered by UN experts
meeting in Bangkok to find ways to ease the harshest effects of
climate change, according to Renaud Crassous, a French delegate
at the meeting in Bangkok.


The still-experimental technology would cut about 35 percent of
the carbon dioxide emissions from steel mills, cement plants and
power plants.


In 2004, those industries released some 29 billion tonnes of CO2
into the air, Crassous told AFP on the sidelines of the Bangkok
meeting.


A draft of the report by UN experts on the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), obtained by AFP, highlights the
interest in developing this technology for coal-fired power
plants of the future.


Rapidly developing countries like China and India are expected to
rely on coal and other fossil fuels to power their development
for years to come.


"There is no point to go to China and say 'stop coal.' They would
laugh at you," said Stephan Singer of the World Wildlife Fund.


"We must invest as soon as possible into the feasibility of
carbon capture and storage," he said.


"We need investment, much investment, and as soon as possible, to
look into where it can be stored."


Europe and the United States are already experimenting with the
technology.


In the North Sea, Norwegian oil giant Statoil injects CO2 into an
underwater cavern some 1,000 metres (3,300 feet) below the ocean
floor.


In Poland, the European Recopol project plans to store CO2 in a
coal mine.


And in Denmark, the Castor project led by the French Institute of
Oil is developing another "CO2 trap."


The United States has developed its own carbon capture and
storage programmes, according to Tom Shope, the acting assistant
secretary for fossil energy in the US Department of Energy, in a
recent paper.


So far, no one has proved if the technology would be economically
viable on a large scale. The current cost of such a system would
have to be greatly reduced to make it workable for big
industries.


Environmental activists worry about the risks of storing the
carbon dioxide, fearing that the gas could burst into the
atmosphere if the underground caverns ever cracked.


"A burst of CO2 could be fatal, even though carbon dioxide is not
poisonous," Greenpeace said in a report on renewable energy.


"CO2 concentrations of seven or eight percent in the atmosphere
could cause death by suffocation in 30 to 60 minutes," the report
said.


The technology will not be ready until 2020, and modernising
power plants with this type of equipment would be expensive, the
group said.

