

Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and socialist rival Segolene Royal
staged an often bad tempered televised debate Wednesday that
could have a crucial effect on France's presidential vote.


Facing each other across a white table, Royal, who trails in
opinion polls ahead of Sunday's runoff vote, launched a volley of
attacks on Sarkozy's record in government and their disagreements
repeatedly flared into ill-restrained hostility.


An estimated 20 million viewers were engrossed by the two and
half hours of exchanges on the reasons and cures for France's
economic and social problems. But analysts said neither candidate
delivered a knockout blow.


In the most fiery outburst, Royal charged Sarkozy with "political
immorality" after he said that handicapped children should be
guaranteed a place in ordinary schools.


"I am scandalised by what I have just heard," said an outraged
Royal, accusing Sarkozy's government of dismantling Socialist
Party education measures for the handicapped. "This is the height
of political immorality."


Sarkozy, who remained calm in the attack, retorted with: "I don't
question your sincerity, don't question my morality ... You lose
your temper very easily."


Earlier Sarkozy repeated a pledge to cut the number of state
workers -- prompting accusations from Royal that he would
endanger public health and education services.


Sarkozy said he would ensure full employment in France in five
years by "freeing the forces of labour", and said the 35-hour
working week -- introduced by the last socialist government --
was killing employment.


"She (Royal) still thinks that you have to share out the work
like pieces of a cake. Not a single country in the world accepts
this logic, which is a monumental mistake," he said.


Royal countered with a promise to create 500,000 youth jobs,
funded from existing training and unemployment budgets.


She questioned Sarkozy's citation of an economic think-tank that
said his programme would benefit the economy more than Royal's.
This prompted Sarkozy to ask: "Why do you treat anyone who is not
of your opinion with irony, even with contempt?"


On several occasions, Royal responded to Sarkozy's proposals by
saying: "What a pity you didn't do that during your five years in
government."


Asked at the end to comment on each other, Sarkozy said, "I have
much respect for her. We have a lot of differences, but I hope
here we have given an image of a renewed democracy, at ease with
itself. I hold no personal animosity."


Royal said she would "refrain from personal remarks", preferring
to concentrate on the clash of ideas.


The encounter could be decisive in determining the choice of
millions of uncommitted voters on Sunday. Nearly seven million
people chose defeated centrist Francois Bayrou in the first round
on April 22, and the second-round campaign has focused on
capturing his electorate.


Analysts said neither candidate had scored a decisive victory.


"There were two winners -- with perhaps a slight advantage to
Sarkozy. Neither fell into the trap prepared by the other.
Sarkozy did not lose his temper and Royal did not come across as
light-weight or incompetent," said Christophe Barbier, editor of
l'Express magazine.


Former Socialist minister Jack Lang said "Segolene Royal was
breathtaking from start to finish. With real panache, she
constantly set the agenda. She obviously appeared as the
president of France."


But Jacques Myard, a deputy from Sarkozy's ruling UMP party, said
Royal "was in a state of near-permanent aggressivity. Opposite
her, Nicolas Sarkozy was convincing, able to calmly spell out his
arguments without sounding like he was reading from a book."


Campaigning for the second round ends on Friday at midnight. On
Thursday the two candidates hold their last rallies, Royal in the
northern city of Lille and Sarkozy in Montpellier in the south.


An Ipsos/Dell poll published Thursday said that Sarkozy would
beat Royal in the second round by 53.5 percent to 46.5 percent.


In the first round, Sarkozy got 31.2 percent of the vote and
Royal 25.9 percent. Far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen got
10.4 percent.


On Tuesday Le Pen urged his 3.8 million voters not to vote for
Sarkozy or Royal. Bayrou has not issued an endorsement for either
candidate.

