

Unbeaten Floyd Mayweather guaranteed victory while Oscar de la
Hoya promised to be faster and more aggressive in their final
public comments before Saturday's super-welterweight showdown.


Trading their final verbal jabs at a news conference here
Wednesday, the US fighters kept to their pre-fight roles with
Mayweather taunting a calm and composed de la Hoya in a face-to-
face staredown.


"I said, 'I'm not worried about you.' I told him he's facing the
truth," Mayweather said. "He's nervous. I see it in his eyes. The
eyes tell it all. He is going to be a little shakey. He is
nervous.


"I will dominate him. Don't be surprised if I stop him. He is a
quitter. I've never given up. This best fighter ever is Floyd
Mayweather and I'm going to guarantee you a victory."


De la Hoya, 38-4 with 30 knockouts, is defending his World Boxing
Council super- welterweight crown while Mayweather, 37-0 with 24
knockouts, is considered the world's top pound-for-pound fighter.


"I don't see this fight going the distance," de la Hoya said.
"I've prepared myself to go out and battle. That's what I have to
do. It's just a matter of sticking to my game plan.


"Don't be surprised if I'm faster than Mayweather. The Oscar you
will see in there will match Mayweather's speed if not surpass
it."


De la Hoya, 34, has been a world champion in six weight classes
but has fought only once in the past 2 1/2 years. Mayweather, 30,
has been a world champion in four weight classes and is a slight
favorite among oddsmakers.


Both fighters have said this will be their final fight but a
rematch could be in the works if talk of record-setting revenues
proves true.


"If the fight is that good, a hell of a fight, yeah we will fight
a rematch," Mayweather said.


"I'm hungry. I'm ready to go out there and die I want to win this
fight so bad. It's going to be the biggest fight in boxing
history. I'm ready to take it to the next level."


Floyd Mayweather Snr, the estranged father of Mayweather and
former trainer of de la Hoya, was on hand after de la Hoya gave
him fight tickets and a hotel room.


Roger Mayweather, Floyd Jnr's uncle and Floyd Snr's brother,
trained his nephew for the fight despite serving three months in
jail on a domestic violence conviction.


"I did my time. Now I'm back doing what I like to do," the
trainer said. "My nephew is going to do what he is supposed to
do. He doesn't know about losing. He only knows winning. Everyone
is going to see the truth."


Freddie Roach trained de la Hoya for the fight after Mayweather
Snr's demand for two million dollars was rejected. Mayweather had
worked with his son but was upset by pre-fight comments by the
fighter.


"I'm neutral. I'm just going to sit back, relax and check it
out," Mayweather Snr said.


De la Hoya praised Roach for his work.


"Having Freddie in my camp is going to make a key difference," de
la Hoya said. "With Freddie I learned to be more aggressive. I'm
going to fight as hard as I can.


"I'm ready for this fight. I'm expecting the best of the best so
we prepared for that. I have a lot of confidence."


Roach warned viewers to be ready at the start.


"Don't miss it," he said. "This one might not be too long."

