

The dollar got a lift Wednesday from an unexpectedly strong
report on US factory orders, fueling optimism that the world's
biggest economy is gathering steam, diminishing a need for rate
cuts.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3590 dollars at 2100 GMT,
against 1.3606 late on Tuesday.


The dollar rose to 120.08 yen, after earlier striking a two-month
peak of 120.28 yen, compared to 119.78 late Tuesday.


The dollar's gains came after the Commerce Department said US
factory orders for March increased a robust 3.1 percent, well
ahead of the expected 2.1 percent gain. That followed a better-
than-expected survey on the manufacturing sector from the
Institute of Supply Management a day earlier.


The growth in factory orders "is suggesting corporate spending is
on the rebound after a period of cost cutting and inventory
reduction," said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


But he said the dollar's rally ran out of steam as market players
braced for Friday's data on US nonfarm payroll growth, seen as
one of the best indicators of economic momentum.


The market is expected the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created, and a weaker figure might lead to a fresh selloff in the
greenback.


But some analysts said they believe the bout of weakness in the
US economy may end sooner than expected, averting the need for a
cut in US interest rates by the Federal Reserve.


Economists Dawn Desjardins and Rishi Sondhi at RBC Financial
Group said they were scratching their forecast for a 25-basis
point reduction in rates by the Fed in June, even though many
traders have priced this in.


"Mixed data have supported two main themes in our view -- the US
consumer is not yet flagging and the business sector is not
headed for a sustained downward turn," they said in a note to
clients.


"Employment gains have also beat market expectations and wage
growth remains robust, lending support to the consumer despite
the negative impact from the housing market correction. We see
little reason to deviate from our forecast that the US economy
will reaccelerate as we head into the second half of the year."


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2137 Swiss francs,
down slightly from 1.2143 Tuesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9893 dollars after 1.9985
Tuesday.

