

The United States, the world's top belcher of greenhouse gas
emissions, is "the biggest culprit" of climate change, the WWF
said Thursday, urging Washington to take swift action against
global warming.


"They are the biggest culprit and they are the biggest offender
of climate," said Stephan Singer, head of the environmental group
WWF's climate change policy unit.


"The United States should take climate change seriously," Singer
told reporters in Bangkok, where scientists around the world are
attending the week-long session of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC), the UN's leading authority on global
warming.


While accusing the US of "ignoring science" on global warming,
the WWF still urged Washington to lead the world in combating
climate change.


"What's happening in the United States is important because it is
still the largest emitter" of greenhouse gas, said Hans Verolme,
director of WWF's global climate change program.


"The United States should take on economy-wise carbon reduction
targets," Verolme said.


The US, the world's biggest economy, consumes around a quarter of
global energy and causes nearly 30 percent of worldwide
greenhouse gas emissions.


US President George W. Bush has incurred the wrath of
environmentalists by abandoning the 1995 Kyoto Protocol, which
aims to reduce the emission of climate change-causing carbon
dioxide, saying it would hurt the US economy.


Verolme argued not only the US but other top industrialised
nations, notably the Group of Eight (G8) countries, should act to
find common ground against climate change.


"I think the G8 should show some leadership. They are
collectively the world's largest economy, and they should
collectively take action," he said, adding climate change was
among key topics at next month's G8 summit in Germany.


But Verolme argued a lack of political will from global leaders
continued to hamper progress on tackling climate change.


"We can tackle climate change, but that really depends on
political action.  We need action from all governments," he said.


"Countries do not promote the use of renewable energy. Given
current energy prices, I frankly don't know why," the climate
change expert said, but adding that it would take some time for
the world to see united political leadership.


"Political systems are very slow to change. It's like steering a
super tanker."

