

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II was due Thursday to start her first
state visit to the United States in 16 years, to mark the 400th
anniversary of the country's first permanent English settlement.


After first visiting Jamestown for the 350th anniversary in 1957,
the queen was due to return to the Virginia town to mark the
founding of a settlement that went from fraught beginnings to
establish history's greatest superpower.


Elizabeth was due to start her six-day trip in the Virginia state
capital Richmond, delivering a speech to a joint session of the
state's legislature, which is the New World's oldest
representative body.


The visit, which will also take in a White House state dinner
with President George W. Bush, marks the nations' shared history
as well as future partnerships in science, education and
innovation, Buckingham Palace says.


The trip comes just weeks after the Virginia Tech massacre in
which 32 students and teachers were killed in the United States'
deadliest school shooting.


The queen will pay tribute to the victims during her time in the
eastern US state. Details are still being finalized but a royal
visit to the campus has been ruled out.


The queen, an avid horse racing fan, will also fulfill a lifelong
ambition to watch the Kentucky Derby after the Virginia leg on
May 5.


In Richmond on Thursday, Elizabeth was due to be feted with a
"Royal Welcome" in the town's neo-classical Capitol Square,
featuring a showcase of Virginia music from blues to jazz,
bluegrass to gospel.


"Considering the queen's a foreign alien, so to speak, she's well
loved here in Virginia, where people remain pretty anglophile,"
retired corporate lawyer Forrest Morgan, 65, told AFP.


"It's a mark of her popularity that the state had to organize a
lottery to give the public a chance to see the queen in
Richmond," he said.


Morgan now does voluntary work taking visitors around the site of
the original Jamestown fort, just over an hour's drive from
Richmond, which the queen and her husband, Prince Philip, were to
tour on Friday.


When she visited 50 years ago, the fort's site adjacent to the
settlers' original landing place on the James River had not been
discovered. A wealth of recently unearthed archaeological finds
awaits the royal couple.


A total of 104 ill-prepared men and boys set up camp along the
mile-wide river on May 14, 1607 on a swampy, mosquito-infested
swath of land, seeking safe haven from marauding Spaniards and a
route to Oriental treasures.


Instead they found famine, disease, drought and hostile natives
whose fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement,
which was also responsible for the advent of black African slaves
in North America.


Prince Philip was Friday also to inspect a replica of the Susan
Constant, the largest of three ships that brought the original
settlers, whose adventurous leader Captain John Smith now stands
in statue by the fort.


The couple were due to attend a lunch Friday with Virginia
Governor Tim Kaine and 400 other guests, before visiting William
and Mary College, America's second-oldest university founded in
1693, at nearby Williamsburg.


After their day at the races, the royal couple fly to Washington
and meet Bush and his wife Laura at the White House on Monday,
the ceremonial climax of the queen's first state visit to the
United States since 1991.


Before returning home late Tuesday, they are to tour NASA's
Goddard Space Flight Center outside Washington, visit the World
War II National Memorial and give a return banquet for the Bushes
at the British ambassador's residence.

