

Right-wing paramilitary groups are "a grave threat" to Colombia's
democracy, Human Rights Watch said in a letter Wednesday
addressed to visiting Colombian President Alvaro Uribe.


The groups, organized as private armies in the 1980s, stand
accused of numerous massacres of civilians suspected of leftist
sympathies and of involvement in drug trafficking.


Uribe, one of Washington's closest allies in Latin America, has
repeatedly fought off claims linking him to the paramilitary
forces when he was governor of Antioquia province in the 1990s.


Washington considers the largest umbrella group representing
paramilitaries, the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC),
a terrorist organization. The AUC officially demobilized the last
of its 30,000 fighters in April in a deal that guaranteed prison
terms of no more than eight years.


In mid-April Colombia's Supreme Court announced it was
investigating the president of the House of Representatives and
two other lawmakers for alleged links with the AUC.


The announcement followed the arrest of eight lawmakers from
parties in Uribe's governing coalition, while another accused
lawmaker is on the lam.


The paramilitary groups "pose a grave threat to Colombia's
democracy, the rule of law, and human rights," wrote the group's
executive director, Kenneth Roth.


Roth was writing in response to a letter from Uribe expressing
concern over HRW's April 24 testimony in the US Congress on human
rights in Colombia.


HRW wants Uribe to block communications between imprisoned
paramilitary leaders and their mafias, and wants paramilitary
leaders that continue their criminal activities extradited to the
United States.


US President George W. Bush met Uribe earlier Wednesday, calling
him "a true democrat, a strong leader, and a friend."


Uribe sought to bolster support for his country in the US
Congress, which has blocked 55 million dollars in military aid to
Bogota.


Colombia has received four billion dollars in US aid since 2000
through Plan Colombia to combat drug trafficking and left-wing
rebels that have battled the government for four decades.

