

Oscar de la Hoya, a kid from a tough Los Angeles neighborhood who
grew into an Olympic champion and boxing legend, wants to
complete his legacy with a victory to lead the sport into a new
era.


Now a savvy businessman and promoter, the 34-year-old "Golden
Boy" fights what could be the last fight of his career Saturday
when he defends his World Boxing Council super-welterweight title
against unbeaten Floyd Mayweather.


De la Hoya, 38-4 with 30 knockouts, won world titles in six
weight classes and will enjoy his top payday of 25 million
dollars as fighter and promoter of the showdown of US stars.


"I want to be known as a fighter who always fought the best, who
fought everyone. Mayweather is the best and it's the fight I
wanted," said de la Hoya.


"I didn't want it to secure my legacy. I wanted it because when
my career is over people will know I fought the best and did
well."


De la Hoya won 1992 Barcelona Olympic gold to earn the nickname
"Golden Boy" and fulfill a promise made to his mother, who died
of cancer when he was 17.


"The most important thing I've ever done in my life was winning
the Olympic gold medal for my mother," de la Hoya said.


De la Hoya has become boxing's biggest moneymaker with 492
million dollars from 17 pay-per-view events. He likely will move
past Mike Tyson as the revenue king of pay-TV fights Saturday in
what could be the top grossing bout ever.


"I'm the pay-per-view champion. It feels pretty good," de la Hoya
said. "The scary part will be in the future. In the next 20
years, I think someone will break it."


That's the promoter talking. After splitting with promoter Bob
Arum, de la Hoya formed Golden Boy Promotions in 2001. The firm
made 80 million dollars in 2006 and has 47 fighters, including
Shane Mosley and Bernard Hopkins.


"I'm fighting not just to secure my legacy but to get the word
out that 'Golden Boy' is looking to make boxing respectable
again," de la Hoya said.


"Hopefully I'll gain more respect as a fighter and Golden Boy
Promotions will gain some serious recognition. I believe the
sport is going to be helped the most."


Boxing seeks a younger fan base and new hero to spark excitement.
De la Hoya has opened new sponsor inroads and internet marketing
on YouTube and MySpace to bring a new flavour to the old
fashioned megafight of bygone days.


"We want this fight to go down as the night that saved boxing,"
said Richard Schaefer, Golden Boy Promotions' chief executive and
a former Swiss banking director.


De la Hoya, whose wife Millie is a Puerto Rican singer, was
stopped in the ninth round 2 1/2 years ago by Hopkins and did not
fight for 20 months until beating Ricardo Mayorga last May.


Now de la Hoya said he is the best fighter that he has ever been.


"I think the Oscar de la Hoya of 2007 could beat the Oscar de la
Hoya of 1997," he said. "The wisdom I have accumulated over the
years, that is priceless."


So is the fortune. A youth center and new high school stand on
the site of the gyms where de la Hoya trained as a youth.


"I can give back. I'm living the American dream," de la Hoya
said.


It's the sense of giving that brought him back into the ring once
more.


"I'll always need boxing. Boxing is what made me," de la Hoya
said. "It's a sport I have so much passion for. That's one of the
reasons I turned promoter."


If he can get boxing off the mat before the count reaches 10,
that might be his greatest legacy.

