

A UN conference considering ways to improve the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty suspended its work Wednesday following
Iranian objections to a call in the proposed agenda for full
compliance with the NPT.


Conference chairman Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano told the
meeting that Thursday morning's session had been cancelled but
would resume in the afternoon to try and find a way for an agenda
to be adopted.


"I am still conducting intensive consultations and and I need
some more time," Amano told the meeting in Vienna of the
189-nation NPT.


Diplomats have said they feared the Vienna meeting could descend
into procedural wrangling as happened at the last review
conference in New York in May 2005.


But in Vienna, Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh told
reporters Wednesday that Tehran's position had not changed
regarding its opposition to the NPT conference's agenda item
"reaffirming the need for full compliance with the treaty."


On Monday, Soltanieh surprised the opening session when he
insisted that this item could "create disputes by creating too
much focus on one country. We don't want a direction given"
against Iran.


Iran is isolated here, as both non-aligned states and Western
powers want the debate to go ahead.


Their view is that there is nothing exceptional about calling for
compliance with the NPT at a conference looking at ways to
reinforce the treaty, several diplomats said.


Iran has refused to freeze uranium enrichment activities in
defiance of UN calls for Tehran to suspend the sensitive process
and despite UN-imposed sanctions.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it wants only to produce energy for a growing
population.


The Vienna meeting is the first of a series of preparatory
conferences ahead of the next general review in 2010 of the NPT.
The landmark 1970 treaty remains the main legal barrier to the
spread of nuclear weapons.


The hitch at the UN conference comes as US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice arrived in Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt ahead of a
two-day conference on Iraq.


Rice has said she is ready to discuss the standoff over Iran's
nuclear programme with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki, who is also attending the conference. On Tuesday
however, Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostavafi said the
conditions were not right for a dialogue.


Announcing the delay to the talks in Vienna, Amano told
reporters: "The parties here need time to think. We are working
very hard. It's complicated."


He said he had included the clause on compliance, and one on
answering an Arab call for Israel to join the NPT, in order to
make the process forward looking.


"So I made the (agenda) proposal and at this stage I don't think
I need to change it," Amano said.


One Middle Eastern diplomat said Iran felt the agenda was
designed against it and failed to insist on nuclear weapons
states honoring the NPT by moving towards disarmement.


But he said there should be a solution by the end of the first
week in order to save the second week of the two-week conference.


"It depends what point Iran is trying to take. They are trying to
make things difficult for everyone," the diplomat said.


"But taking it to the brink and taking responsibility for the
collapse of the prepcom (NPT preparatory committee meeting) is a
different matter," the diplomat said.


But in the end, he added, Iran "always tries to work out things
under the cover of international diplomacy."


Soltanieh said Iran was "prepared to have useful, constructive
discussion" but insisted on a new agenda.


"Any other proposal which will have consensus, we will approve,"
he said.


Non-aligned nations were urging Iran to put off this fight until
a UN nuclear watchdog meeting in June.


"But Iran says they must stand on principle now, to avoid
precedents," a non- aligned diplomat told AFP.

