

Mounting civilian casualties in military operations against the
Taliban are turning already wary Afghans against foreign troops
based here and eroding the fragile support for President Hamid
Karzai, analysts say.


After days of protests against allegedly innocent victims being
killed by international troops, Karzai summoned top generals and
diplomats to his palace Wednesday to reiterate years of
complaints over blameless deaths.


"Afghans are human beings too," he told reporters afterwards.
"What we are seeking is value to Afghan lives."


Soon after the meeting, Afghan and UN teams announced their
investigations found that around 50 civilians were killed in days
of ground fighting and bombing in a remote valley in the western
province of Herat.


Also Wednesday, about 500 university students torched a flag in
the eastern province of Nangarhar alleging six civilians were
killed by US-led coalition troops on Sunday.


"With every civilian life lost, the Afghan people get more
angry," said Sarah Holewinski, executive director of the Campaign
for Innocent Victims in Conflict, which is based in Washington.


"The US military has a stake in avoiding that kind of resentment.
They must now investigate incidents of civilian death following
combat operations -- and they should ensure the Afghan people see
them do it," she said in a statement.


There is a danger the mounting casualties will play into the
hands of the Taliban movement's efforts against the government
and foreign troops, said Nader Nadery, from the Afghanistan
Independent Human Rights Commission.


The extremists were toppled from power in 2001 by the coalition
and are waging a campaign of violence and propaganda that tries
to portray the international forces as "infidel" invaders and the
government as a stooge of the West.


"Incidents causing civilian casualties will no doubt distance
people from the international troops and their own government.
It's dangerous," Nadery told AFP.


"It will also provide an easy tool for the Taliban to use against
the progress achieved over the past five years," warned the
rights activist.


And civilian casualties threaten to ruin public confidence in the
grinding fight against the Taliban and its Al-Qaeda allies.


"Firstly it undermines the struggle against terrorists," said
parliamentarian Shukria Barakzai. "Secondly such killings turn
people against these troops," she said.


"Obviously the sense of support and cooperation will be replaced
by hatred and desire for revenge. It makes it easy for the enemy
to use this against us."


There is already simmering resentment among Afghans towards the
50,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan to help the fledgling
government forces stabilise the fractured country.


Aggressive soldiers in bullet-proofed convoys regularly force
traffic off the roads. They also burst into homes in the middle
of the night to conduct searches despite repeated calls from
Karzai to work with local authorities and respect Afghan
sensibilities.


Anger towards the soldiers erupted into riots in Kabul in May
last year after a coalition vehicle lost control and ploughed
into civilians cars, killing a handful of passengers.


More recently there has been a steady rise in the number of
civilians, including children, shot dead at checkpoints manned by
foreign forces who opened fire after their warnings to vehicles
to halt are ignored.


Last month a unit of US Marines was withdrawn from Afghanistan
after being accused of opening fire indiscriminately on civilians
after an ambush in Nangarhar province. About a dozen people were
killed, including two children.


Karzai's government, widely accused of corruption and
incompetence, is already "far short of gaining the real support
of the ordinary people," said senior Afghan journalist and
commentator Ikhpolwak Safi.


"When civilians die -- obviously not for a good reason -- and it
is linked to his government, it will turn people against him," he
said.


"Dropping bombs on villages because one individual has attacked
them is not a wise thing to do. This is what the foreign troops
have been doing," he said.

