

Japan will grow faster than the United States this year as it
emerges from its long slump but the central bank should keep
interest rates low to beat stubborn deflation, the IMF said
Wednesday.


The world's second largest economy remains robust with private
investment rising on the back of solid corporate profits and a
pick-up in exports, the International Monetary Fund said in its
twice-yearly World Economic Outlook.


Japan's economy is set to grow by 2.3 percent this year -- better
than a previous forecast of 2.1 percent and after a 2.2 percent
expansion in 2006, the IMF predicted.


"A recovery in consumption is expected to largely offset some
cooling of exports in view of the anticipated moderation in
global growth," the Fund predicted.


But Japan's growth will ease to 1.9 percent in 2008, slipping
back behind the US economy where growth will pick up from 2.2
percent this year to 2.8 percent in 2008, it added.


Japan's recovery stalled briefly in mid-2006 mainly due to a drop
in consumption, but the economy rebounded strongly in the fourth
quarter of 2006, the IMF noted.


"Near term prospects depend crucially on whether the rebound in
consumer spending in the fourth quarter is sustained," the report
said.


In this regard underlying fundamentals appear favourable thanks
to the hiring of more full-time workers by Japanese companies --
which should lead to rising wages, helping to lift consumer
spending, it added.


But the IMF also voiced caution over lingering deflationary
pressures after Japan's consumer prices fell for the first time
in 10 months in February.


"While the growth outlook is favourable, inflation readings have
remained uncomfortably close to zero," the report said.


"The primary focus should remain on ensuring robust growth and a
decisive departure from deflation. Thus, monetary accommodation
should be removed only at a gradual pace and on the basis of
evidence confirming the continuing strength of the expansion,"
the Fund recommended.


The Bank of Japan this week kept its key interest rate on hold at
0.5 percent for the second meeting in a row following its quarter
point hike in February, which was the first increase since July.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has said he hopes to keep raising
interest rates gradually but he faces political resistance to
further hikes, particularly after core consumer prices fell 0.1
percent in February.


The IMF also renewed its call for greater policy transparency
from the central bank, which last year ended an unprecedented era
of near zero interest rates, raising borrowing costs for the
first time in almost six years.


The report said greater transparency would allow an orderly
unwinding of carry trades by investors who have taken advantage
of Japan's cheap credit to raise funds to put into higher
yielding assets elsewhere.

