

The International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday growth in India
would slow to 8.1 percent in 2007 from 8.7 percent a year ago as
the central bank raises interest rates further to tame prices.


"In India, growth remains rapid, with strong momentum in the
manufacturing and services sectors," the Washington, D.C.-based
lender said in its annual outlook on world economic growth
patterns.


But it noted that "with inflationary pressures still strong, some
further tightening is likely to be needed."


The IMF said that for 2008, the nation of 1.1 billion will clock
growth of 7.5 percent, mostly linked to the effect the current
policy of higher interest rates will have on consumer demand and
the housing market.


India's central bank has raised key interest rates and cash
reserve levels for banks steadily since October 2004 as the
economy expanded faster than expected and stoked inflation above
the top end of a 5.0 to 5.5 percent forecast.


In March, the Reserve Bank of India surprised investors and hiked
the key short term lending rate, known as the repo rate, by a
quarter of a percentage point to 7.75 percent.


It also boosted the cash reserve ratio by half a percentage point
to 6.5 percent in a bid to take money out of the banking system.
The central bank's overnight deposit, or reverse repo rate, was
kept stable at 6.0 percent.


The move came after inflation remained stuck above six percent
for more than a month mainly linked to higher costs for food and
raw materials.


The central bank has its next quarterly monetary review on April
24, where it is expected to warn that further rate increases are
possible because demand for basic commodities and infrastructure
bottlenecks are causing prices to spurt.


The Indian government estimates growth at 9.2 percent for the
financial year to March 31, 2007, after the economy expanded by
nine percent a year earlier.


Private economists forecast a slowdown from the level for the
current fiscal year started April 1, but most say the economy
will grow more than eight percent.


The IMF forecasts follow a calendar year.

