

A suicide car bomber wounded eight civilians in southern
Afghanistan Wednesday, as officials said 13 Taliban died in a US
airstrike and four more were killed by a mine they were planting.


The suicide attacker blew up his vehicle near a NATO convoy in
the main southern city of Kandahar, the birthplace of the
1996-2001 Taliban regime whose remnants are now behind a bloody
insurgency.


Police said eight civilians were wounded and the bomber died. The
NATO-led International Security Assistance Force headquarters in
Kabul confirmed an "explosion" and said its troops did not suffer
any casualties.


No one claimed responsibility for the blast, but the Taliban have
vowed to launch a wave of suicide attacks this year.


Separately on Tuesday, US-led coalition and Afghan troops called
in warplanes after Taliban rebels attacked them with mortars and
rockets in the troubled Sangin district of southern Helmand
province, the coalition said.


"Coalition aircraft arrived and dropped munitions which resulted
in the destruction of one enemy compound, a bunker and a
vehicle," it said in a statement.


"There were an estimated 13 Taliban fighters killed during the
engagement," it said, adding there were no civilian casualties.


The airstrike came a day after coalition jets killed four Taliban
fighters in Sangin district.


About 1,000 Afghan security forces and NATO-led troops took
Sangin out of Taliban control at the weekend without facing any
major resistance, according to authorities.


Helmand is one of the most violent provinces in Afghanistan,
where drug traffickers are said to fund the Taliban.


Meanwhile, four Taliban fighters were killed when a landmine
meant to target foreign and Afghan troops exploded as they
planted it in the southern province of Ghazni, a district
official said.


"A group of Taliban were laying a mine on a road. The mine went
off and killed four of them," chief of Ander district Abdul Rahim
said. Two other rebels were injured in the blast, he said.


More than 1,000 people, mostly militants, have died so far this
year in violence linked to the fundamentalist Taliban, who were
ousted by a US-led invasion after the September 11, 2001 attacks
on the United States.


The US-led coalition has around 12,000 troops in Afghanistan
while more than 30,000 soldiers are deployed in the Central Asian
nation with the separate ISAF contingent.

