

New Palestinian finance minister Salam Fayaad on Wednesday urged
the international community to save the Palestinian territories
from a "very acute financial crisis".


However he failed to get EU External Affairs Commissioner Benita
Ferrero-Waldner to agree to deal formally with the Palestinian
unity government or to resume direct aid to the Palestinian
Authority.


Fayaad, well respected in EU circles, arrived in Brussels for
talks with the warning that he only has about a quarter of the
funds required for 2007, a shortfall of around a billion euros
(1.3 billion dollars.


"These are very difficult times for the Palestinian people," he
told reporters at a joint press conference in Brussels with
Ferrero-Waldner, adding that if the international community did
not come to the aid of the Palestinians the outcome would be
"devastating".


The Palestinian people are facing "a very severe and very acute
financial crisis," he warned.


The EU was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian government
until the Hamas militants came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the EU, US, UN and Russia
-- then suspended direct aid to the Palestinian authority.


Since then, the 27-nation EU has redirected its aid, which
reached 700 million euros in 2006, through a special mechanism to
help the neediest people while bypassing the government to avoid
contact with Hamas.


Like the United States, the EU considers the militant Muslim
group a terrorist organisation.


The new Palestinian government, a mix of Western-backed moderates
and Hamas militants, wants direct aid payments to it to resume,
amid dire economic hardship and heavy violence in the Palestinian
territories.


Ferrero-Waldner said the temporary mechanism would continue and
offered support to Fayaad, an independent, in terms of technical
assistance to get his finance ministry in order.


However she repeated the international demands that the
Palestinian government renounce violence, formally recognize
Israel's right to exist and abide by former agreements.


Until that happens the EU will only deal with what it considers
to be Western- friendly members of the Palestinian unity
government.


Ferrero-Waldner said she could "imagine informal exploratory
talks" with foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr, like Fayaad an
independent.


Fayaad said that the unity government was committed to a platform
to abide by "all the agreements entered into". He personally is
on the record as accepting the Quartet's terms for re-engagement.


Fayaad was due to meet other EU officials to talk of funding,
although as one Palestinian official put it, "it's not about just
pressing buttons and you get pledges, this is a first round of
talks".


He is also hoping that the Arab League will follow up on the
support it voiced for the Palestinian Authority at its recent
summit in Riyadh.


But he stressed that the real solution to the problem requires
that Israel lifts its financial restrictions.


"We do not aspire to be a beggar nation," he said.

