

A year after hard-fought elections brought Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi to power, his disparate centre-left coalition
remains fragile as he struggles to soldier on.


The past 12 months have brought a series of crises to a
government that has had trouble finding a unified voice among its
communists, reformists, Catholic centrists and libertarians.


A man of compromise, Prodi "hoped for a harmonious orchestra
among the some 10 parties" in the coalition, Giampaolo Pansa
wrote in the left-wing magazine L'Espresso. "But he immediately
ran into incredible chaos, an uncontrollable Tower of Babel."


On February 21 the former European Commission president resigned
after losing a foreign policy vote in the Senate thanks to the
defections of two "dissident" communist senators as well as two
senators for life.


Prodi was reinstated and survived confidence votes in both
chambers of parliament a few days later.


Since then he has benefitted from divisions within the centre-
right opposition, whose Christian Democrats of the UDC rebelled
against former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, head of the
largest party Forza Italia.


But any vote in the Senate remains risky for the centre-left,
which enjoys a theoretical advantage of just two votes.


"The government is like the Tower of Pisa, it leans but doesn't
fall," Justice Minister Clemente Mastella, head of the centrist
Catholic UDEUR party,  joked in February.


The atmosphere of permanent crisis and the cacophony among the
ministers have distracted attention from government achievements,
while some projects have been stalled -- such as raising the
retirement age, initially to 60 from next year, raising minimum
pensions to 500 euros (670 dollars) a month and improving the
safety net for young people.


After a marathon debate in parliament, the government pushed
through an austerity budget in December forecasting 35 billion
euros in savings and new revenues.


This is seen as the first step in bringing Italy's public deficit
into line with EU norms, a goal sidelined under Berlusconi's
five-year reign.


Two waves of deregulation aimed at reducing consumer costs -- for
medicines, petrol and banking services, for example -- have taken
effect.


"But a strong project is lacking that could strike Italian public
opinion," said commentator Stefano Folli of the economic daily Il
Sole 24 Ore.


"Ten years ago (when Prodi served a first stint as prime
minister) there was a grand idea: make sacrifices to enter into
the euro zone. This time, the only project was to beat
Berlusconi. There wasn't much behind it," Folli wrote.


In the international arena, Italy made a mark by taking command
of the UN peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon, to which it
contributed 2,500 troops.


But Italy's mission in Afghanistan, where some 2,000 Italian
soldiers serve with the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF), has been a thorn in the side of the
Prodi government, with communists and Greens calling for them to
come home.


Afghanistan is among issues that have clouded relations with
Washington, and tensions deepened over the conditions surrounding
the release on March 19 of Italian journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo in exchange for the freedom of five Taliban
prisoners.


The swap drew official ire from London and Washington, and the
issue returned to haunt Italy this week with the execution by the
Taliban of Mastrogiacomo's Afghan interpreter.

