

European football's ruling body UEFA has called on the
continent's police forces to learn from their British
counterparts, who are deemed more experienced in being able to
deal with violence between fans.


Violent clashes between supporters marred both legs of Manchester
United and Roma's Champions League quarter-finals while Tottenham
fans were involved in ugly scenes on their trip to Seville for
the UEFA Cup.


In Rome last week, the Italian police were criticised for what
was believed to be their heavy-handed approach towards United
fans, and it was a similar story in Seville.


On Wednesday UEFA's director of communications William Gaillard
urged European police to follow Britain's lead when it comes to
dealing with violence.


Gaillard told Radio Five Live: "Our president Michel Platini has
repeatedly asked police to learn from the British experience and
way of handling things.


"A lot of the crowd control practice in England has been
established over 20-25 years, given that there was a very serious
problem before that.


"Now, through a number of measures that are not all linked to
policing, though many are, we have got a situation that is far
more acceptable than in other countries and it is vital to learn
from that."


Gaillard also accused the Rome police of failing to prepare
efficiently for United's visit last week, after which 11 English
supporters were taken to hospital.


"There is no doubt that when supporters are accompanied by a few
police officers who understand their culture and what it takes to
keep them under control, it helps tremendously.


"Something just as stupid as the fact that there was probably no-
one in the Roman force last week who could speak English proved
costly," he said.


Sixteen football fans -- 12 English and four Italian -- were
charged Wednesday after clashes with police marred Manchester
United's Champions League quarter- final victory over AS Roma,
police said.


They were charged after violence flared briefly between up to 100
rival fans outside the Old Trafford stadium in Manchester before
Tuesday's game.


Police with dogs and batons had arrested a total of 21 people.


The group face a range of different charges including possession
of a bladed weapon, criminal damage and public order offences, a
spokeswoman for Greater Manchester Police told AFP.


At last week's clash in Rome several United fans needed hospital
treatment after being stabbed before the match, while Italian
police baton-charged the visiting supporters during the first
half.


Gaillard has called for greater co-operation between countries'
police forces.


"What is important is to reinforce the co-operation between - and
within - the forces. This is not just vital in the repression of
hooliganism and violence, but also in corruption, illegal
betting, money laundering through sport, doping and so on.


"The more co-ordination and co-operation we get, the better the
results we will see."

