

Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Wednesday he will
freeze his salary for five years and "donate" the increase that
boosted his annual income to more than two million US dollars.


His decision comes amid a furore over the pay hike in the city-
state, which faces a widening income gap.


"I will hold my own salary at its present level for five years,"
the prime minister said in parliament.


Lee's salary was 1.62 million US dollars last year.


"The government will pay me my full salary because that is how
the system will have to work, but for five years I will donate
whatever the increase in salary above the present ... to suitable
good causes."


The prime minister's salary increase was among pay rises for
civil servants announced on Monday.


Lee told parliament he wanted "to make quite clear why I am doing
this and to give me the moral standing to defend this policy to
Singaporeans."


But Ho Geok Choo, of the ruling People's Action Party, expressed
concern in parliament that some people might interpret the prime
minister's "magnanimous gesture as a retreat and face-saving
admission that the policy is flawed."


In announcing the pay hikes on Monday, Teo Chee Hean, minister in
charge of the civil service, repeated the government's philosophy
of paying competitive rates in order to "facilitate the
recruitment and retention of the quality of talent we need for
the government and public sector."


Officials say the high salaries are also necessary to prevent
corruption.


Lee's revised salary would be five times more than the 400,000
dollars paid to US President George W. Bush and more than eight
times that of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who receives
240,000 dollars a year.


The increase has been among the most passionately debated issues
in recent years, and many Singaporeans -- usually reserved --
were untypically blunt in their reactions.


Other cabinet ministers and senior civil servants also received
pay increases, but Lee said he did not expect ministers to follow
his lead in donating the increment.


He said it is "a private matter for them to decide at their own
discretion."


Under a benchmark pegged to top private sector salaries,
Singapore ministers are supposed to be paid 2.2 million Singapore
dollars a year. However, they are actually getting 1.2 million
dollars, or 55 percent less.


To close the gap, Teo said the ministers' salaries would be
raised incrementally to 1.9 million dollars by the end of 2008.


Lee is the son of Singapore founding father Lee Kuan Yew, and
took over as prime minister from Goh Chok Tong in 2004.


In a country where political rallies are banned without a permit
and the media are closely linked with the government, many of the
comments against the pay rise were posted on the Internet.


"This is plain injustice," said one identified as Zac Neo, who
was among more than 850 people to sign an online petition against
the increase.


Sylvia Lim, of the Workers' Party, told parliament Wednesday that
ordinary Singaporeans are struggling with rising costs and taxes.


"The median gross monthly income of someone in full-time
employment is 2,170 dollars. In other words an ordinary person
takes a month to earn what a minister earns in half a day," she
said.


"Does the cabinet not feel a tinge of discomfort drawing
taxpayers' money at such rates?"


Singapore is Southeast Asia's wealthiest society, but the
government has warned of a widening income gap.


In its 2007 budget, the government increased the goods and
services consumption tax but offered a compensation package to
help offset the impact. It also announced a "workfare" scheme to
assist lower-income workers.

