

Consumer prices in Latvia rose by 1.4 percent in March on a
monthly basis, putting inflation over 12 months at 8.5 percent,
the national statistics bureau said Wednesday.


Increases in the prices of clothing and footwear after the end of
the winter sales season, as well as of food products and catering
services, had the greatest impact on price changes in March,
official data showed.


Inflation has been rising progressively in Latvia, causing
jitters about credit- fuelled economic overheating in the Baltic
state, where growth is the highest in the EU.


In December, 12-month inflation was at 6.8 percent, in January at
7.1 percent and in February at 7.3 percent.


Raita Karnite, director of the Institute of Economics at the
Latvian Academy of Sciences, said however that the latest figure
was not as worrying as it seemed.


"This is an unpleasant number, but it is not tragic," she told
AFP.


"The banks already started to cut down their crediting at the end
of last year and in the first months of this year it was even
more pronounced -- the free flow of indiscriminate crediting is
decreasing.


"Overall prices might stabilise with the decrease of crediting,"
Karnite said.


Other forecasters, however, are proving increasingly gloomy about
the Latvian economy.


Last Thursday, the ratings agency Fitch revised downward its
outlook on Latvia from "stable" to "negative," and warned it may
downgrade the country's credit status.


Fitch's move came several weeks after a similar revision by rival
ratings agency Standard and Poor's.


Last month, the Latvian government unveiled an ambitious plan for
cutting inflation to 2.0-3.0 percent by 2010-11.


Its package includes measures to dampen consumption such as
restrictions on issuing personal loans and mortgages, as well as
taxation of some property deals and a limit on public sector
salary increases.


The plan met with a lukewarm response from the ratings agencies,
which said a tighter fiscal policy and effective anti-inflation
measures are needed.


Latvia and its fellow Baltic states of Estonia and Lithuania
joined the European Union in 2004 after regaining their
independence from the Soviet Union 13 years earlier.


Besides having some of the highest inflation in the 27-nation EU,
they top the economic growth table: Latvia's economy grew by 11
percent in 2006 and is forecast to expand by 9.0 percent this
year.


The International Monetary Fund has regularly urged the Baltic
states to ensure that their economies do not overheat owing to
breakneck expansion.

