

Sudan is determined to seek a peaceful solution to the deadly
violence that has erupted with its neighbour Chad, Foreign
Minister Lam Akol said.


"Sudan is firmly committed to finding a peaceful solution to this
problem," Akol said, toning down Khartoum's threat of retaliation
for Chad's involvement in deadly border violence.


Akol was speaking after talks with South African President Thabo
Mbeki, during which Monday's deadly border clash between Sudanese
and Chadian troops featured prominently.


Khartoum said 17 of its troops were killed in the clash, for
which N'Djamena apologised after saying its soldiers launched the
action in hot pursuit of rebels.


Mbeki and Akol "examined what needs to be done to improve
relations between Sudan and Chad in the aftermath of the recent
events", said the Sudanese foreign minister.


Sudan has accused Chad of violating a 2006 border agreement which
the two neighbours signed in Tripoli that Sudan maintains has
been unobserved for the past year.


Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi was to send an envoy, Abdel Salem
Triki, to Sudan and Chad on Wednesday for talks aimed at easing
tensions between the two countries.


Triki, assistant to Libya's foreign minister in charge of African
affairs, said he would deliver letters from Kadhafi calling on
the leaders of the two countries to "return to peace and
dialogue."


Libya's government has tried to mediate in recent months by
posting Libyan monitors on the border and calling on both Chad
and Sudan to respect the Tripoli agreements.


Mbeki, meanwhile, travelled on Wednesday to Juba, the capital of
semi-autonomous southern Sudan.


The South African president was a key mediator in the
negotiations that led to the January 2005 signing of a peace
agreement ending Sudan's 21-year-long north- south civil war.


At a meeting later Wednesday in Khartoum with Sudanese President
Omar al-Beshir and First Vice President Salva Kiir, Mbeki is
expected to urge the government to accept the United Nations
peacekeeping plan for Darfur.


Khartoum has so far accepted most of the first two stages of
former UN chief Kofi Annan's plan for a reinforcement of the
embattled African Union (AU) contingent currently deployed in the
troubled western Sudanese region.


Akol said however that Sudan remained opposed to the deployment
of helicopter gunships in Darfur.


The first two phases of the plan involve mainly UN logistical and
technical support for the 7,000-strong AU force but the third and
most contentious phase is supposed to lead to the deployment of a
joint -- or "hybrid" -- AU-UN force.


The latest clashes between Chad and Sudan heightened fears that
the four-year- old conflict in Darfur could spill over to
neighbouring countries, which also include the Central African
Republic.

