

Nearly 40 staff from the Italian aid organisation Emergency left
Kabul Wednesday amid tension with the Afghan government, the care
group said.


The move comes three days after the Taliban killed an Afghan
reporter kidnapped along with Italian journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, and as an Emergency employee is believed to be
held by Afghan authorities.


"They left Kabul for a calmer place in order to talk about the
situation," a spokesman for the Italian non-governmental
organisation, based in Milan told AFP.


Carlo Garbagnati, the vice-president of Emergency, was quoted by
the ANSA news agency as saying the group comprising 30 Italians
and eight other expatriates had gone to Dubai for the time being.


He said their departure was due to "the lack of security."


Three hospitals run by Emergency will continue to operate with
Afghan staff but in a "slightly more limited way," Garbagnati
added.


Italian radio RAI said the 38 left Kabul on a UN aircraft.


Mastrogiacomo was kidnapped last month. But Emergency, which has
worked in Afghanistan for 10 years, brokered his release on March
19 in exchange for the release of five Taliban militants by the
Afghan government.


Then on Sunday, the insurgents beheaded Afghan reporter Ajmal
Naqshbandi, captured along with Mastrogiacomo, after saying the
government had failed to meet demands to free two more rebels.


Rahmatullah Hanefi, the Afghan head of personnel at Emergency's
hospital in the southern city of Lashkar Gah, who played a role
in freeing Mastrogiacomo, is believed to be held by the Afghan
secret service.


The founder of Emergency, Gino Strada, denounced Monday what he
called "abominable accusations" by the secret service of
complicity against Hanefi in the kidnapping of the Italian
journalist.


Strada has repeatedly called for his release, accusing Afghan
President Hamid Karzai and Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi of
being largely "responsible for this disgrace" of his arrest.


"It's the first time that when two parties agree to confer to a
third person the task of proceeding with an exchange of
prisoners... this person is finally arrested," he said.

