

EU regulators said Wednesday they had filed formal charges
against a suspected cartel in the shipping sector, the first step
in legal action that could cost the firms millions of euros in
fines.


The European Commission accused the unnamed shippers of bulk
chemical liquids of "restricting competition in the EU" by
carving up the market among themselves, rigging bids, fixing
prices and sharing sensitive information.


The European Union's competition watchdog said it had taken
action based on evidence against the companies gathered during
surprise inspections carried out in February 2003.


At the time of the raids, the three biggest chemical shippers in
the world -- Norwegian groups Stolt-Nielsen, Odfjell and Jo
Tankers -- confirmed that they had received visits from
trustbusters, while Japanese group Tokyo Marine was mentioned in
the press.


Odfjell stressed on Wednesday that it was cooperating with the
investigation and had taken measures to ensure staff did not fall
foul of antitrust rules.


"Odfjell has cooperated closely with the Commission during the
four-year period of investigations, and will continue to do so,"
it said in a statement.


Under EU rules, the companies targeted by the regulators' charges
now have two months to defend themselves in writing against the
accusations.


If regulators are not satisfied with the answers, they can slap
fines of up to 10 percent of the companies' worldwide annual
revenues.


EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes has made a "no-
tolerance" crackdown on cartels a top priority and has lodged
ever-rising record fines against them.


Most recently, the Dutch commissioner imposed the biggest fine
ever in a EU cartel case by bringing an illegal club of lift
makers crashing down in February with a penalty of 992 million
euros (1.3 billion dollars).


Last month her team of trustbusters launched separate legal
actions against suspected cartels making professional-quality
videotape, glass and bathroom fittings.


She also said last month that she expected to break up as many as
nine or 10 cartels this year and set a new record in annual fines
handed out to offending firms.

