

Malawi, swamped with surplus maize from two bumper harvests, will
export 400,000 tonnes of the staple to cash-strapped Zimbabwe,
the head of the state-run strategic maize reserve agency said
Wednesday.


"Malawi has had two good years of bumper maize harvest and is in
surplus of about 1.1 million tonnes," Nasinuku Saukila, general
manager of the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) told AFP.


"Zimbabwe has been shopping around for maize. We will be
exporting 400 mega tonnes of maize following a demand from that
country.


"The general picture in the region is that there is a problem and
there is demand for our maize and we will export on first come
first served basis," the NFRA chief said.


Saukila said maize exports this year would give "local farmers
and traders a steady market for their surplus maize."


Millions of Malawians depend on maize for their food needs, which
is grown  on small plots.


"Maize traders were looking for a market and if we buy from them,
it will have a multiplier effect as rural farmers are also likely
to benefit," Saukila said.


The poor southeastern African nation, which annually needs two
million tonnes to feed its 12 million people, had a maize surplus
of 500,000 tonnes last year and is set for a bumper harvest in
2007 of three million tons, a 22 percent increase.


The surplus is due to subsidised fertiliser and prolonged periods
of rainfall, agriculture experts say.


Malawi, where food security is a pressing issue with about 60
percent of the people living below the poverty line, met its food
needs for the first time in seven years in 2006 with a harvest of
2.2 million tonnes.


Famine threatened up to five million people in 2005 following
drought and the government spent over 100 million dollars to
import more than 400,000 tonnes of food to avert hunger.


Zimbabwe, once the bread-basket of the region, recently announced
it would need to import hundreds of thousands of tonnes of maize.


Harare blames the shortfall on lengthy drought but critics say
its agricultural policy, including depriving hundreds of white
commercial farmers of their land, is largely at fault.

