

Currency issues, particularly the falling value of the Japanese
yen and the level of the Chinese yuan, are expected to dominate a
meeting of G7 finance ministers in Washington on Friday.


The yen fell to its lowest value ever against the euro on
Wednesday at 160.16 yen after the Bank of Japan kept opted to
keep its key interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent on Tuesday.


The weakening Japanese currency is causing consternation in
European capitals, where finance chiefs are worried that the yen-
euro exchange rate is penalising eurozone exporters.


The issue of the "carry trade," one of the reasons for the yen
weakness, figured at the last meeting of the Group of Seven
finance chiefs in Essen, Germany in early February.


The "carry trade" is based on the low level of Japanese interest
rates, which encourages investors to borrow money cheaply in
Japan and then invest in higher- yielding currencies such as the
euro.


Japanese rates are currently at 0.50 percent compared with 3.75
percent in the eurozone and 5.25 percent in the United States.


Investors will wait for the final communique from the G7
ministers on Friday to see whether any reference is made to the
"carry trade" or the level of the Japanese currency.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said last Friday that finance
chiefs were likely to discuss currencies at their meeting but
would not focus on the weakness of the yen.


"Discussion on exchange rates is likely to include the yen, the
dollar, the euro and the yuan," he said.


But talks "will not particularly focus on the yen."


For Julian Jessop, an analyst with Capital Economics, whether the
G7 mentions the yen or the "carry trade" is immaterial,
reflecting a view that the forum has little influence over the
foreign exchange market.


"G7 comments will not make any difference, especially as they are
not backed by any hard action," he said.


Analysts remain divided as to whether the ministers will speak
out about the yen's weakness.


"The Bank of Japan has at least raised interest rates (last July
and again in February) so I think this time it will be difficult
for EU officials to ask the BoJ to raise one more time," Dresdner
Bank strategist Kazuhiko Shibata said.


The United States is expected to drive efforts for comments on
the Chinese yuan to be included in the final communique.


Even though a policy of pegging the yuan against the dollar was
abandoned by Beijing in July 2005, the US continues to maintain
that the Chinese currency is artificially undervalued,
contributing to the imbalance of trade between the countries.


At the February meeting in Germany, the statement from ministers
called explicitly on China to allow the yuan to appreciate.


The International Monetary Fund, which holds its bi-annual
meeting with the World Bank in Washington this weekend, is also
expected to call on more flexibility for the yuan in its economic
outlook report published later Wednesday.


China will not take part in the meeting of finance ministers, a
spokesman for the finance ministry said here Tuesday.


The Asian giant is not a member of the G7, which groups Britain,
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States, but
has frequently taken part in some of the discussions during the
G7 sessions in the past.


Germany, which is chairing the G8, the G7 with Russia, is also
expected to push its agenda for greater development of the bond
market in developing countries and tighter regulation of hedge
funds.


However, German efforts are likely to be undermined by the
absence of Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck who will be on
holiday with his family in Namibia.


Steinbrueck, who has come under fire for his decision, is sending
his number two in the finance ministry, Thomas Mirow, the finance
ministry confirmed on Tuesday.


Hedge fund representatives were also expected to meet with deputy
finance ministers at the G7 meeting to discuss ways to increase
the transparency of the industry, the Financial Times reported on
Wednesday.


The talks, involving about 20 hedge fund delegates, will focus on
what a surveillance regime could look like, the paper said.

