

France's right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy was
forced Wednesday to deny a report that he had agreed to shield
President Jacques Chirac from a corruption probe in exchange for
his backing.


"It's grotesque, it's hurtful and it's untrue," Sarkozy, the
candidate of the governing UMP party, said of the report in Le
Canard Enchaine satirical weekly, which was also denied as
"baseless" by Chirac's office.


"I deny it in the firmest and fullest terms," Sarkozy said during
a campaign swing through the north Paris suburb of Villepinte.


Quoting sources close to Chirac, the weekly reported that "in
exchange for Chirac's support for his candidacy, Sarkozy made a
commitment, if he wins, to avoid any judicial backlash for
Chirac," whose immunity from questioning by magistrates ends a
month after he steps down on May 16.


Rather than a specific amnesty for corruption, Sarkozy would
introduce a provision as part of a new anti-crime bill that would
set a 10-year limit on the time a judge has to close a case, the
weekly said.


That measure would close the book on three corruption cases that
date back more than 10 years, when Chirac was mayor of Paris from
1977 to 1995, according to Le Canard Enchaine.


Two cases deal with the illegal use of Paris city funds to pay
staff and sympathisers of Chirac's Rally for the Republic (RPR)
party, the predecessor of the governing Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP).


A third case surrounds a Paris printing firm which is suspected
of rigging public tender contracts and of funding the RPR via the
mayor's office.


Last month justice officials said Chirac, 74, would be questioned
after he leaves office in May by a judge looking into the illegal
party-funding scheme, although no date had been set.


Chirac gave his official endorsement to Sarkozy's bid for the
presidency last month, shortly after announcing that he would be
stepping down after 12 years in office and not seek a third term.


Once close allies, the two men fell out after Sarkozy backed a
rival candidate in the 1995 presidential election. Sarkozy, 52,
went on to wrest control of the UMP from Chirac, becoming its
president in 2004.


Sarkozy is is currently the favourite to win France's
presidential election, taking place in two rounds on April 22 and
May 6, ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal, the centrist
Francois Bayrou and the anti-immigration far-right leader Jean-
Marie Le Pen.


The potentially damaging report came as Sarkozy faced a volley of
attacks for comments in which he argued that paedophilia was a
genetic trait -- described by his Socialist rival Segolene Royal
Wednesday as "very dangerous" and the sign of "a very alarming
view of humanity".


Sarkozy used the trip to Villepinte, where he attended a ceremony
for new French citizens, as a chance to hammer home his message
on "national identity", which he has turned into a chief campaign
theme despite accusations he is fishing for far-right votes.


The right-winger argues that newcomers to France should respect
core values such as secularism and male-female eqality -- but has
also been at pains to stress his own immigrant roots to deflect
charges of xenophobia.


In the hour-long ceremony, he told participants that France "will
give you everything, so long as you know how to respect and love
it."


"Into this family, this family of France that welcomed my
grandfather and my father, I welcome you in turn," said the
candidate, who was born in France to a Hungarian father and
French mother of Greek Jewish origin.


Royal's Socialist Party (PS) issued a statement attacking
Villepinte's mayor for "transforming a French citizenship
ceremony into an electoral meeting" and urging the candidate to
"step outside the walls of the town hall" and visit the town's
rougher neighbourhoods.


Sarkozy -- whose tough rhetoric on law and order made him a hate
figure in many area -- has mostly stayed away from the suburbs
during the campaign.

