

Hamas charged on Wednesday that Israel was blocking a prisoner
exchange deal for a soldier held by Gaza-based militants, after
the Jewish state expressed reservations over the list of
detainees Palestinians want freed.


"Israel is the main obstacle at reaching an accord on an exchange
of prisoners," a spokesman for Palestinian prime minister Ismail
Haniya of Hamas, Ghazi Hamad, told AFP.


"With the position that it has adopted, Israel is confirming that
it does not want (Gilad) Shalit freed and does not want an
accord," he said, referring to an Israeli soldier seized by
militants, including the armed wing of Hamas, last June.


On Tuesday, Israel expressed "disappointment and reservations"
with the prisoners that Palestinians want freed in return for
Shalit, following Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's first meeting with
security chiefs to discuss the list.


Israel confirmed on Sunday it had received the list of prisoners
through Egyptian mediators, the first sign of progress after
months of deadlock.


Olmert will convene the security cabinet on Sunday to set
Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release, although
Israel has said it would not free prisoners "with blood on their
hands" -- those responsible for killing Israelis.


"There is no excuse to refuse the names presented to Israel,"
Hamad said.


"In the past Israel has carried out prisoner exchanges with
Hezbollah members who had killed Israelis," he said, referring to
Lebanon's Shiite militia with which the Jewish state fought a
34-day war last summer.


Earlier Wednesday, an Israeli minister said that charismatic
Palestinian leader Marwan Barghuti was not on the list of some
450 names handed over to Israel, as reported earlier by sources
close to the Palestinian government.


"Marwan Barghuti's name does not appear on the list" which
Egyptian mediators handed to Israel last week, Housing Minister
and member of the powerful security cabinet Meir Sheetrit told
public radio.


Barghuti, the charismatic West Bank leader of president Mahmud
Abbas's secular Fatah party who is widely revered by Palestinians
as the mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is
serving five life sentences for planning attacks against
Israelis.


The fate of Corporal Gilad Shalit, who was captured on June 25
when Gaza militants tunnelled out of Gaza and attacked an army
border post, has hampered the resumption of peace talks.


His seizure sparked a massive Israeli air and ground offensive
against the Gaza Strip that killed some 400 Palestinians before a
November ceasefire came into force.


Over the past 30 years, Israel has carried out several prisoner
exchanges, most of them with Lebanese militant groups.


In the last such exchange in January 2004, brokered by Germany,
Israel freed more than 400 mostly Palestinian prisoners and
returned the bodies of 60 mostly Lebanese guerrillas, in return
for an Israeli businessman captured by Hezbollah and the bodies
of three Israeli soldiers.

