

The European Union's data protection watchdog on Wednesday
criticised plans to introduce a bloc-wide system of sharing
police data, warning the public would have insufficient
protection.


Under the scheme, a police cooperation deal so far signed by
Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands
and Spain, would be extended to all member states.


Entitled the Treaty of Prum, after the western German town where
it was signed in 2005, the scheme allows participating nations
mutual and automatic access to DNA and fingerprint records, as
well as car registration information.


EU data protection supervisor Peter Hustinx said he regretted
that the proposal, endorsed by EU justice and interior ministers
in principle in February, did not specify who would be included
in shared DNA databases and voiced concern over protection of the
public.


A general framework for data protection "unfortunately has still
not been adopted," he said.


"That framework is needed to give the citizen enough protection,
since this decision will make it much easier to exchange DNA and
fingerprint data."


The data protection watchdog wants the agreement to specify "the
categories of persons that will be included in the DNA databases"
and to limit the period for retaining information.


The watchdog also "regrets that it does not harmonise essential
elements of the collection and exchange of data."


Hustinx said that his office's suggestions "mainly serve to
improve the text without modifying the system of information
exchange itself.


"Clarifications will ensure a harmonised implementation into
national law and guarantee citizens' rights as much as possible,"
he added.


He also said that the initiative had been launched without any
impact assessment.


In 2005 the European Commission put forward a similar EU policing
recommendation but failed to gain agreement from all member
states.


Germany, which currently holds the EU's rotating presidency, has
said it hopes to have an agreement by all 27 EU member states on
the plan by the end of June.

