

A court in Copenhagen on Wednesday sentenced a Moroccan-born
Danish man to three and a half years in prison for promoting
terrorism, the court said.


The conviction of Said Mansour, 46, was the first under tightened
anti-terror legislation adopted by Denmark in 2002 in the wake of
the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.


He was arrested in September 2005 on charges of incitement to
terrorist acts.


He was specifically accused of having produced and distributed
some 12,000 CDs, DVDs and videos, containing speeches and chants
where people linked to terrorist organisations called for jihad
(holy war) and praised terrorists.


The material, recovered from Mansour's house and car as well as
markets, was produced between June 7, 2002 and September 8, 2005.


He was also accused of propagating material calling for the
killing of Jews, described as "monkeys" and "pigs".


The court said in its ruling that Mansour's activities "can be
considered general, professional advice to terror groups in
relation to Al-Qaeda and groups inspired by Al-Qaeda that have
the intention of committing terror acts."


It also found that he had made anti-Semitic statements.


The court said there was no proof that any attacks had actually
been carried out, but noted as an aggravating circumstance that
Mansour's activities had been directed at young people.


Mansour, 46, maintained his innocence throughout the trial, which
opened in November. He faced a maximum of four years in prison.


Intelligence services throughout Europe had the suspect under
surveillance since 2001. He allegedly had contact with the head
of the Spanish branch of the Al- Qaeda network and met Abu Qutada
-- a key figure involved with Al-Qaeda financing in Europe -- in
London, Danish media reported.


He was also the registered user of a postal box in Denmark in the
1990s for Al- Qaeda number two Ayman al-Zawahiri of Egypt,
according to the press.


Mansour boasted of having personal contacts with Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman, who is serving a life sentence in the United States
for having instigated attacks against targets in New York.


Rahman is believed to have masterminded the first attack against
the World Trade Center in New York in 1993.

