

Anti-terror police were on Wednesday questioning  a man who
threatened to blow up an airplane on a domestic flight from the
southeastern Turkish city of Diyarbakir to Istanbul Tuesday
afternoon.


The motives of Mehmet Goksingol, a 39-year-old ethnic Kurd from
Diyarbakir, remain unclear.


Goksingol threatened to blow up the plane with what he claimed to
be a bomb attached to his belt and forced it to land in Ankara,
where he surrendered to the security forces about half an hour
later.


He turned out to be unarmed and police found no explosives on the
plane, operated by the private Pegasus Airlines, which had 174
passengers and six crew. No one was injured in the incident.


Witnesses aboard the Boeing 737-800 said that the man, who
appeared to be mentally unstable, was holding a Koran and a
mobile telephone, which he claimed would activate the bomb, as he
made the threats.


He had first demanded that the plane land in Ankara, but then
changed his mind and said he wanted to go to Iran, officials
said.


Police have so far failed to find any evidence to suggest that
Goksingol may be linked to any underground organisations,
Anatolia news agency reported Thursday


He was giving conflicting information to the police, the agency
said.


Media reports said the man had a criminal record for drug-related
crimes and illegal possession of weapons and was acquitted of
charges of aiding separatist Kurdish rebels in 1994.


The authorities were to analyse blood samples from the man for
any traces of alcohol or narcotics. Some reports suggested he was
on drugs when he diverted the plane.


Goksingol was expected to appear before a judge on Thursday. The
minimum charges he risks call for a jail term of between five to
10 years.


The incident was the second hijacking attempt by an unarmed Turk
claiming to have a bomb in recent months.


In October, an army deserter who was facing arrest on arrival in
Turkey forced a Turkish Airlines plane, en route from Tirana to
Istanbul, to land at an Italian airport.

