

Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said the English
Premiership was the best league in Europe following his side's
thrashing of AS Roma and the prospect of three semi-finalists in
the Champions League.


The 1999 champions booked their place in the last four alongside
Chelsea and almost certainly Liverpool by routing the Italians
7-1 on the day, 8-3 on aggregate.


Michael Carrick (two), Cristiano Ronaldo (two), Wayne Rooney,
Alan Smith and Patrice Evra got the goals on a magical night at
Old Trafford to set up a showdown against either AC Milan or
Bayern Munich.


United manager Ferguson said: "The fact that three English teams
should be in the semi-finals probably makes our league the best
in Europe. Six or seven years ago Spanish football was the best.


"But on the evidence of this season Barcelona and Real Madrid are
not as near to where they were in previous years. The competitive
nature and the quality of the English game has improved over the
seasons."


Carrick's goal after 11 minutes set the tone and it was United's
biggest win in Europe since 1968 when they defeated Republic of
Ireland side Waterford by a similar margin.


Ferguson said: "We never expected to win 7-1 but the quality of
our game was so high. It was a fantastic performance. Our speed
of play and penetration was superb.


"It was a special night and every one of our goals were quality.
We did our job against a very good team. The early goal gave us
the confidence to go at Roma and that's absolutely the best night
of European football we've had here. The scoreline tells you
that."


Ferguson believes some of his young players are beginning to feel
more comfortable in the European arena. He said: "The experience
of playing AC Milan a couple of years ago was a disappointment,
knowing we could have played better.


"Ronaldo and Rooney found it difficult but against Roma they were
men."


Ferguson had special words of praise for former Leeds striker
Smith, whose progress has been hampered by injury. He said: "It
is fantastic for him. He deserves it more than anyone.


"His attitude to play football is wonderful. He has got
enthusiasm that spreads throughout the team and he trains like a
beast."


United went into the game on the back of losing to Portsmouth at
the weekend as well as Roma in the first leg, and Ferguson was
delighted at the mental attitude of his side.


He said: "We've had two bad results but all great teams get over
those mishaps. Recovery is the thing and we recovered against
Roma."


Roma coach Luciano Spalletti was left shellshocked after seeing
his side dismantled with a goal from Daniele De Rossi scant
consolation. He said: "No-one imagined this performance. We
suffered from a lack of experience. The first goal changed the
face of the game. We lost our shape and played into their hands.


"The surprising thing was we had a similar amount of shots to
United but every one of theirs seemed to find the corner of our
net. We have played many good matches this season but we got it
badly wrong in this one.


"We made a lot of mistakes and got punished heavily for them. We
ended up chasing the game. But Manchester United deserved victory
because of the way they played."

