

The Norwegian government said Wednesday it had divested a stake
owned by the state pension fund in DRD Gold of South Africa
because the company is polluting at a gold mine in Papua New
Guinea.


"DRD Gold causes severe environmental damage as a direct
consequence of their mining operation at Tolukuma on Papua New
Guinea. We cannot hold shares in such a company," Norwegian
Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen said in a statement.


Norway's giant state Pension Fund contains nearly all of the
state's revenues from the country's booming oil industry.


The Norwegian central bank, which manages the fund, sold Norway's
entire stake in DRD Gold, acting on the government's
instructions. The stake was worth about 4.0 million kroner
(500,000 euros, 663,000 dollars) at the start of the year.


Ethical guidelines from the government bar the Pension Fund from
investing in "particularly inhumane" weapons manufacturers and in
companies known to be involved in large-scale human rights
violations, corruption, or environmental pollution.


According to the Norwegian government, DRD Gold holds almost 79
percent of Emperor Mines, which operates the Tolukuma mine in
Papua New Guinea.


"Every day the Tolukuma mine disposes of 430 tonnes of tailings
(waste) into a natural river system.


"Tailings and drainage from deposit sites generate a significant
supply of heavy metals to the environment, in particular mercury,
cadmium, chromium, arsenic, nickel and lead," the ministry said.


The Pension Fund, which invests in stocks and bonds and is one of
the richest in the world, was worth more than 227.8 billion euros
(305.6 billion dollars) at the end of February, destined to
finance future pension requirements.


DRD Gold is the 22nd company to have been barred from the Pension
Fund and the second to be removed for environmental reasons,
after US mining group Freeport.


The Pension Fund avoids arms producers such as Boeing, EADS,
Thales, Safran, Northrop and BAE Systems, as well as the world's
largest retailer Wal-Mart which is accused of violating
employees' human rights.

