

Jordan is considering three offers to construct a massive canal
to bring water from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea, where the water
level has been dropping rapidly in recent years, a press report
said Wednesday.


The 25-year project would address the region's acute water
shortage by eventually providing up to 850 million cubic metres
(about 30 billion cubic feet) of fresh water to Jordan, Israel
and the Palestinian territories, Jordanian officials said.


Water Minister Zafer al-Aalem was quoted by Al-Ghad newspaper as
saying that given the scale of the project the government will
take its time in evaluating the offers, warning that "even a
small error could cause the kingdom to suffer for 25 years."


As one of the 10 most water impoverished countries in the world,
Jordan's water deficit exceeds 500 million cubic metres a year,
according to the water ministry.


Officials from Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian Authority
launched a feasibility study for the project in December 2006 in
a bid to save the Dead Sea and improve regional ties.


France, the Netherlands, Japan and the United States committed
nine million dollars to finance the two-year study estimated to
cost around 15.5 million dollars, and a total of 16 countries
have expressed interest in the project, which will be managed by
the World Bank.


A seven-member committee of senior water ministry officials is
examining the three offers and will submit its recommendations to
the ministry which will in turn send it to the cabinet for
endorsement.


However, there were no details given about the offers.


Environmental experts have repeatedly warned that the Dead Sea is
in danger of drying up as Jordan, Israel and the Palestinians
divert the waters of the Jordan River, which feeds it, for
agriculture.


The Dead Sea is the world's lowest and most saline body of water.
Its level has dropped by a third since the 1960s and restoring it
to its natural water level would take 25-30 years, Aalem said in
December.


The first phase of the proposed project consists in building a
180-kilometre (110-mile) pipeline to pump 1.9 billion cubic
metres of water from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea at a cost of one
billion dollars.


The second phase estimated to cost 2.5 billion dollars will
involve the construction of a desalination plant in Jordan and a
power plant to generate electricity.


No estimate has yet been made available for the third and last
phase of the project to transfer 850 million cubic metres of
desalinated water to be shared by Israel, Jordan and the
Palestinians.

