

Moroccan security forces hunted for 10 possible suicide bombers
on Wednesday, a day after three militants blew themselves up in
Casablanca as they were chased by police.


"We are searching Casablanca for about 10 extremely dangerous
terrorists, as they are ready like those yesterday to blow
themselves up," police said as they released the identities of
those who died on Tuesday.


Tuesday's drama began with one man being shot by police as they
surrounded  a house before dawn in the el Fida district of the
city. The man, identified as Mohamed Mentala, came out of the
house carrying a sword and wearing an explosives belt.


Police fired at him twice preventing him setting off the
explosives though he died later of his wounds.


According to the police version of events, a second suspect came
out onto the balcony of the house and seeing that he was
surrounded, blew himself up.


The same afternoon, a police inspector died after a third man
blew himself up in the same district. Two other police officers
and a child were also hurt.


In the final attack on Tuesday, five people were wounded,
including two police officers, as a man blew himself up in the
main street of the Hay al Farah district.


All four were being sought by police in connection with an
explosion in a Casablanca Internet cafe on March 11.


The first man to blow himself up was identified as Mohamed
Rachidi, aged 37 wanted in connection with the 2003 murder of a
Casablanca policeman. The second man was named as Ayoub Raidy,
the brother of the man who was killed by an explosive he was
carrying in the March 11 incident.


The third man was not named.


Morocco's newspapers meanwhile were united in their view of the
incidents with one daily, Aujourd'hui le Maroc, saying the events
amounted to a "world war".


Another, the Economiste, a business daily, blamed satellite
television for the turn of events.


"Satellite television exposes the poorest in our towns to what's
happening on the other side of the planet and to events in the
Middle East and this can lead to some copying tragic examples,"
the paper said.


A judicial source said on Wednesday that a "terrorist group is
being formed and funded by Moroccans with the aim of carrying out
bombings at Casablanca port and several police stations".


But Mohamed Darif, a specialist on Islamism in Morocco, told AFP
that he found it "hard to imagine that this group did not have
any foreign links.


"On the contrary, it seems that they apply the order given by
Ayman al Zawahri, the number two in Al-Qaeda, to blow yourself up
rather than fall into the hands of the police," he said.


Al-Qaeda recently announced that it had set up a cell in north
Africa.

