

A fundamentalist mosque behind a morality campaign in the
Pakistani capital has guns on the premises and will defend itself
if the government attempts a crackdown, a top cleric said
Wednesday.


The Lal Masjid or Red Mosque in Islamabad has caused the
government headaches with its Taliban-style vice patrols and by
issuing a "fatwa" against a female minister for being pictured
hugging a paragliding instructor.


"If it comes to a do-and-die situation we will use our right to
self defence," Abdul Rashid Ghazi, the mosque's deputy leader,
told AFP by telephone.


"Whatever arms we have are with licences obtained in the past
through normal official procedures," he said when asked to
comment on what appeared to be assault rifles carried by young
devotees standing guard on the mosque's walls.


The bearded mullah refused to respond to comments by intelligence
sources that the students of two Islamic schools which are
attached to the mosque had stored petrol to make crude firebombs.


On Friday, Abdul Aziz, the chief cleric at the mosque in downtown
Islamabad, and Ghazi's brother threatened to launch "thousands"
of suicide attacks if government security forces launched an
operation against the compound.


He also announced the formation of an Islamic "Sharia" court,
which two days later issued the fatwa against Tourism Minister
Nilofar Bakhtiar.


The government of military ruler President Pervez Musharraf is
continuing negotiations with the mosque's leaders despite public
pressure to tackle what has been described as "Talibanisation" in
the heart of the capital.


Musharraf told a public rally in the eastern city of Sialkot that
the mosque's male and female students were not the real enemy in
the battle against extremism, and that the government did not
want to fight them.


"Newspapers say the government is weak and I am showing signs of
weakness or some fear. It is not a question of any fear,"
Musharraf said. "But they are not enemies that we should attack
and eliminate."


Casualties in any raid on the mosque would be bad for Musharraf,
a proponent of moderate Islam and key US ally in the war on
terror, at a time when he faces a political crisis over his
removal of Pakistan's chief justice.


Male and female students from the mosque's schools have launched
morality patrols targeting local music and video shops, as well
as briefly kidnapping two policemen and three women including an
alleged brothel owner.


They have also refused to vacate a government library for
children they occupied in January in protest at the demolition of
several mosques that authorities said were built on illegally
occupied land.

