

Global banking giant Citigroup announced Wednesday it was cutting
17,000 jobs as part of a major overhaul of its operations aimed
at saving several billion dollars.


The financial titan said over 26,500 staff would be impacted by
its reforms, however, as it also plans to relocate more than
9,500 jobs to "lower-cost locations" in the United States and
overseas.


Citigroup has come under pressure from leading shareholders to
slash its expenses and it unveiled the mass job cuts after a
three-month review of its operations and costs.


"Ultimately these changes will streamline Citi and make us
leaner, more efficient, and better able to take advantage of high
revenue opportunities," said Citigroup chairman and chief
executive Charles Prince.


Top executives said the job cuts are expected to help generate
expense savings of 2.1 billion dollars in 2007, 3.7 billion in
2008, and 4.6 billion in 2009.


Citigroup, which has expanded aggressively in the last decade,
employs some 327,000 staff worldwide and the job cuts will affect
more than five percent of its workforce.


Prince and other executives, participating in a conference call
with Wall Street analysts, said further reforms could be
announced in coming months as they vie to slash overhead.


Middle managers and back office staff, workers who process
administrative paperwork, will be notably reduced, executives
said.


"We wanted to shrink the layers of management," said chief
operating officer Robert Druskin.


Aside from the mass layoffs, Citigroup said it was also moving to
close some offices and boost its IT savings to further rein in
expenses. Day-to-day business expenses are also under scrutiny.


Around 57 percent of the slated job cuts will occur outside the
United States while some 43 percent of the layoffs will affect
US-based staff.


The banking giant will swallow a hefty charge of 1.4 billion
dollars pre-tax during the first quarter of 2007 to largely meet
severance costs.


Executives said about two-thirds of the over 9,500 posts slated
for relocation would occur through "attrition." In many cases,
jobs lost in a higher cost region will be replaced by new
positions in a lower cost country.


Citigroup is one of the world's largest financial organizations
and has a footprint spanning the United States, Europe and Asia.

