

Sudan is determined to a seek a peaceful solution to the deadly
violence that has erupted with its neighbour Chad, Foreign
Minister Lam Akol said.


"The two parties have looked at their agreement again and
examined what needs to be done to improve relations between Sudan
and Chad in the aftermath of the recent events," he said late
Tuesday after talks with South African President Thabo Mbeki.


"Sudan is firmly committed to finding a peaceful solution to this
problem," Akol said, toning down Khartoum's threat of retaliation
for Chad's involvement in the deadly border violence.


Chadian troops chased rebels across its border on Monday, leading
to direct clashes with the Sudanese army. Khartoum said 17 of its
troops were killed in the clash but N'Djamena apologised for the
incident.


Sudan had accused Chad of violating a 2006 border agreement the
two neighbours signed in Tripoli that Sudan maintains has been
unobserved for the past year.


Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi was to send an envoy, Abdel Salem
Triki, to Sudan and Chad on Wednesday for talks aimed at easing
tensions between the two countries.


Triki, assistant to Libya's foreign minister in charge of African
affairs, said he would deliver letters from Kadhafi calling on
the leaders of the two countries to "return to peace and
dialogue."


Mbeki, meanwhile, travelled on Wednesday to Juba, the capital of
semi-autonomous southern Sudan.


The South African president was a key mediator in the
negotiations that led to the January 2005 signing of a peace
agreement ending Sudan's 21-year-long north- south civil war.


During his meeting later Wednesday in Khartoum with President
Omar al-Beshir and First Vice President Salva Kiir, Mbeki is
expected to urge the government to accept the United Nations
peacekeeping plan for Darfur.


Khartoum has so far accepted most of the first two stages of
former UN chief Kofi Annan's plan for a reinforcement of the
embattled African Union (AU) contingent currently deployed in the
troubled western Sudanese region.


Akol said however that Sudan remained opposed to the deployment
of helicopter gunships in Darfur.


The first two phases of the plan involve mainly UN logistical and
technical support for the 7,000-strong African force but the
third and most contentious phase is supposed to lead to the
deployment of a joint -- or "hybrid" -- AU-UN force.


The latest clashes between Chad and Sudan have heightened fears
that the four- year-old conflict in Darfur would spill over to
neighbouring countries, which also include the Central African
Republic.

