

Premiership strugglers Fulham have confirmed the sacking of
manager Chris Coleman, and his assistant Steve Kean, and have
replaced him with Northern Ireland's manager Lawrie Sanchez on an
interim basis.


Fulham lost 3-1 to visitors Manchester City at Craven Cottage on
Monday, their fifth defeat in a winless eight-match streak that
left them four points above the relegation zone with five matches
left to play.


Coleman and the Cottagers were booed as the players trudged off.


"Chris Coleman has provided a fantastic service during his 10
years at the club and it is disappointing that the club has no
alternative but to part company," a statement on the club's
website read.


"As a team and organisation, Fulham Football Club has goals to
attain and success to achieve and by no means can this be
compromised."


Coleman will be replaced by Sanchez on a caretaker basis until
the end of the season.


Coleman took charge of Fulham in April 2003, and led the club to
12th place in the Premiership last season.


Sanchez, meanwhile, has led Northern Ireland for the past three
years, in which time they have defeated Spain, Sweden and
England, and has guided them to the top of their Euro 2008
qualifying group, ahead of Spain, Sweden and Denmark.


The Irish Football Association expects Sanchez to stay, and the
manager has confirmed that he intends to see out his contract
with the national side.


IFA chief executive Howard Wells said fears that Sanchez could
jump ship permanently are groundless.


"He has given a commitment to me with regards to seeing out his
contract with Northern Ireland," Wells told the BBC.


"Fulham have also given a commitment to me this is an appointment
for the remaining five matches until the end of the season."


Sanchez, however, might consider managing both club and country
if his short spell at Fulham is successful and they avoid
relegation.


He is clear of international commitments until August when
Northern Ireland restart their qualifying campaign against
Liechtenstein at Windsor Park.


Wells said: "If circumstances change they (Fulham) will want to
discuss things further with us."


Fulham visit Reading on Sunday, and must also face Champions
League spot chasers Arsenal and Liverpool in their remaining five
games.


The club is currently in 15th place in the Premiership on 35
points.

