

Shareholders in Puma, the German sportsgear maker, expressed
scepticism Wednesday at the takeover bid from French luxury goods
group PPR, suggesting that the 5.3-billion-euro (7.1-billion-
dollar) price tag was too low.


"Why should shareholders accept PPR's offer" of 330 euros per
share, when Puma shares were trading much higher than that on the
stock exchange, a spokesman for the SdK shareholder association,
Gerhard Jaeger, said at Puma's annual meeting at Nuremberg in
southern Germany.


Puma shares have, in fact, risen more than 10 percent since PPR
unveiled its offer on Tuesday, rising as high as 350 euros in
midday trading on the Frankfurt stock exchange on Wednesday.


Puma chief executive Jochen Zeitz told shareholders at the AGM
that the company believed the price to be "fair" and he
recommended shareholders take up the offer.


"Management is convinced that PPR, as an international company
active in retail and fashion, is the ideal partner for Puma, one
of the leaders in the sports lifestyle sector," Zeitz said.


A takeover by PPR would enable the German group to remain
independent, while "profitting from the French group's global
reach, its portfolio of high-end brands, its know-how and
experience," the chairman argued.


Earlier, in a television interview, Zeitz had not excluded a
possible higher bid from PPR.


"Fundamentally, the price (of 330 euros per share) stands. But
we'll see," Zeitz told ZDF public television.


On Tuesday, PPR, owner of Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, said it
was offering 330 euros per share or 5.3 billion euros in all for
Puma after acquiring a stake of 27.1 percent in the sports shoe
maker.


In Paris a spokesman for PPR said on Wednesday it will not pay a
higher price than it has offered.


"It is a price that fully values Puma and it is the price at
which the Herz


family agreed to sell its share," the PPR spokesman told AFP.


"That amounts to a significiant premium (of 19 percent) compared
to the last Puma (share) price on April 3, before the
speculation," the spokesman said.


But investors appear to be speculating on an even higher price,
with Puma shares changing hands at 350.03 euros on the Frankfurt
stock exchange on Wednesday, up 1.77 percent on the day after
already shooting up 9.44 percent on Tuesday.


Zeitz said it was ultimately to investors to decide whether to
accept PPR's bid at the current price, as it was also up to PPR
whether to raise the offer.


But the 330-euro price tag as it stood was "logical" and had been
"confirmed" by Puma's investment bank advisors, he insisted.


A week ago, prior to the takeover rumours, Puma shares had been
trading at around 270-280 euros, Zeitz pointed out.


Asked whether there was a chance of a competing bid from Puma's
arch-rival Nike, Zeitz refused to rule it out, although he viewed
the chances as "relatively slim".


"The possibility is always there and we would consider it from
the shareholders' point of view," the CEO said.


But the PPR bid was "good" for the company, he insisted.

