

Scientists have discovered evidence of water in the atmosphere of
a planet outside our own solar system, suggesting atmospheric
water could be relatively common around the universe.


Travis Barman, an astronomer at Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff,
Arizona, and Heather Knutson, a student and Harvard University,
drew on data and measurements taken by the Hubble Space
Telescope, and applied new theoretical models to demonstrate the
likelihood of water absorption in the atmosphere of extra-solar
planet HD209458b.


Scientists have anticipated for years that exoplanets would show
signs of water in the atmosphere, even those that orbit much
closer to their central stars than our solar system's Mercury
sits from the sun.


But that proximity has made detecting water difficult, according
to astronomers.


HD209458b, which sits 150 light years from Earth in the
constellation Pegasus, was the first transiting exoplanet ever
found -- that is, the first discovered that passes in front of a
much larger body, from the vantage point of the Earth. It is also
the first exoplanet known to have an atmosphere.


The small planet orbits its star every three and a half days, and
each time it goes by, scientists can assess what is in its
atmosphere by how it absorbs light from the star.


According to a summary of the research, atmospheric water
absorption in such an exoplanet renders it larger in appearance
across one part of the infrared spectrum, compared to wavelengths
in the visible spectrum.


Knutson took the Hubble data on HD209458b and applied to it
Barman's new theoretical model, resulting in the identification
of water absorption in the planet's atmosphere.


"It is encouraging that theoretical predictions of water in
extrasolar planets seem to agree reasonably well with
observations," said Barman in the statement.


"We now know that water vapor exists in the atmosphere of one
extrasolar planet and there is good reason to believe that other
extrasolar planets contain water vapor," he said.


Their research was supported by the Origins of the Solar System
program of the US National Aeronautic and Space Administration,
and is expected to be published in the Astrophysical Journal.

