

The boss of Team New Zealand Kevin Shoebridge said they are ready
to Challenge for the Louis-Vuitton Cup, which gives the winners
the right to race holders Alinghi for the America's Cup trophy.


New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark is expected in Valencia
this weekend along with a waka (war canoe) paddled by Maori
warriors, before the start of the April 16 to May 7 event.


Shoebridge, the director of sailing and operations of Emirates
team New Zealand, said: "We feel as though we are ready. We are
very happy with our new boats and we had a good final training
and testing this winter in New Zealand.


"Sailing conditions in Auckland were in the end quite similar to
what we found back in Valencia. We will use NZL 92 with Dean
Barker at the helm on Monday, but we need flexibility as the
competition will be long and we could also  race with NZL 84 and
our number two helmsman Ben Ainslie.


"Our goal is first to win the Vuitton and become the challenger
of Alinghi. Then, of course, we absolutely want to bring back the
Cup to Auckland, but it won't be easy as the Swiss boat is still
the reference, as we saw during the recents fleet regattas in
Valencia.


"The strength of the team is the team itself. It is a strong
national team, about 80 percent of the members being from New
Zealand, with a good sailing cuture. There is a very good
atmosphere in the team.


"It will be difficult, because the other boats are very good.
They have come a long way in the past two years and closed the
gap, even the smaller teams.


"The main expectation is that it will be between us, BMW Oracle
and Luna Rossa. But you have to watch out for some other teams
like the Spanish, Mascalzone or Victory Challenge. It's going to
be very close and there will be surprises in the next two weeks."


The Louis-Vuitton winner earns the right to take on Swiss
champions Alinghi, which defends the title they won in Auckland
Bay in New Zealand four years ago, in the 32nd America's Cup
best-of-nine race match in June.

