

Iraqi and US troops backed by helicopters killed 20 militants in
Baghdad in one of the fiercest gunfights since the launch of a
new security crackdown in the capital, authorities said
Wednesday.


Four Iraqi soldiers were also killed in Tuesday's raging battle
that left another 16 US troops wounded, although most have since
returned to duty.


US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Scott Bleichwehl told
AFP in an email that 20 militants had been "killed in action"
during the fight, which erupted right in the heart of the Iraqi
capital and raged for hours.


A separate statement issued on behalf of Operation Fardh al-
Qanoon (Imposing Law) by Iraqi authorities said "19 terrorists"
were killed over the past 24 hours in the Rusafa district on the
east bank of the Tigris.


"The operation was part of military plan Fardh al-Qanoon to get
rid of terrorists and takfiris (Sunni extremists) during the past
24 hours," it said.


Iraqi and US troops backed by helicopter gunships battled
insurgents in the Al- Fadhel area of Rusafa in firefights the US
military said late Tuesday had killed four Iraqi soldiers and
wounded 16 American troops.


US combat helicopters were slightly damaged when they came under
small arms fire during the gunfights and briefly had to return to
base.


Bleichwehl said 13 of the 16 wounded American troops had since
returned to duty and that on Wednesday there was "no fighting or
large-scale operation ongoing in that area" although routine
patrols were continuing.


On Tuesday, the disturbances flared after Iraqi and US troops
conducting routine cordon and search operations in Rusafa were
rapidly ambushed by small arms fire in Al-Fadhel, and air assets
were called in.


The Iraqi statement on Wednesday also said that "29 terrorists
and 38 suspects" were arrested across Baghdad in the past 24
hours.


Since February 14, Iraqi and US troops have waged a massive
security crackdown in Baghdad that has seen American officials
upbeat about signs of progress and a decline in execution-style
killings.


But in Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said
that the much- vaulted operation, which has seen tens of
thousands of troops deployed in the streets, had still not
managed to stabilise the lives of civilians.


"It's clear for us that the humanitarian situation is steadily
worsening and affecting in one way or another, directly or
indirectly, all Iraqis today," said the ICRC's director of
operations, Pierre Kraehenbuehl.


"The suffering that Iraqi men, women and children are enduring
today is unbearable and unacceptable. Their lives and dignity are
continuously under threat," he told the launch of ICRC report
"Civilians Without Protection -- The Ever-Worsening Humanitarian
Crisis in Iraq".


He said that while much of the violence is sectarian in nature,
troops should always aim to distinguish between armed fighters
and civilians under the same roof, when conducting house-to-house
searches during a military operation.


"When you fail to take the measures of precaution and distinction
of this nature, you have then increasing impact on civilians,"
Kraehenbuehl added.


On Wednesday, an Iraqi mother and her school-age son were killed
in crossfire between police officers and gunmen in the northern
city of Mosul, police Major Mohammed Ahmed said.


The incident happened one week after Iraqi security forces and US
troops extended the Baghdad crackdown to what is the country's
third largest city.


The bodies of four women and three Iraqi soldiers were found
dumped with a bullet to the head in various parts of Mosul -- an
execution-style killing that has dropped drastically in Baghdad
since the crackdown began.


South of Baghdad, a roadside bomb attack killed one policeman and
wounded another three as they were patrolling the Shiite city of
Hilla, said police.

