

Europe must face up to the challenge of slashing its carbon
emissions, the presidents of eight EU member states said after
talks Wednesday.


"Economic development in the world should be balanced with the
health of the planet," Latvian President Vaira Vike-Freiberga
told reporters after an informal gathering with her counterparts
from Austria, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland and
Portugal.


The eight presidents reached a consensus about the need to push
forward with the 27-nation European Union's new targets for
slashing emissions of greenhouse gases, officials said.


"This is a common goal of high significance," said Austrian
President Heinz Fischer. "This is our responsibility towards
future generations."


Greenhouse gas emissions, which are mostly produced by energy
intensive industries, trap solar heat and thus drive up global
temperatures.


Slashing them is a major plank of the UN's Kyoto protocol.


The 1997 deal, which entered into force in 2005, seeks to lower
the global impact of climate change.


Under the Kyoto agreement, the EU pledged to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions by eight percent from 1990 levels by 2012.


At a summit last month, the EU pledged to go even further in the
future, saying it would cut its emissions by 20 percent by 2020
and deepen the reduction to 30 percent if "international
partners" follow suit.


"The Kyoto protocol is tough to fulfill, but Europe has put
herself in the forefront in the battle against global warming,"
Finnish President Tarja Halonen said in Riga on Wednesday.


A major challenge for the protocol is that the United States, the
world's number one polluter, is not on board.


Another problem is overcoming the wariness of major developing
countries such as Brazil, China and India.


They are cautious about being lured into making pledges on
curbing emissions that they fear could hamper their economies and
slow their rise out of poverty.


There are differences within the EU over the caps placed by the
bloc's executive arm, the European Commission, on individual
member states' emissions.

