

Environmental group Greenpeace called for urgent action on
Wednesday to prevent illegal logging in the rainforests of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, urging the World Bank to do
more to combat the problem.


"In a context of corruption and poor governance in the DRC, the
World Bank's attempts to reform the forestry sector are currently
failing to control the expansion of logging," Greenpeace said in
a report.


The report explained that the DRC's rainforests were critical for
inhabitants of the vast central African country.


Of the 60 million people in the DRC about 40 million depend upon
the rainforests to provide essential food, medicine and other
non-timber products along with energy and building materials.


In May 2002 the World Bank persuaded the transitional government
in the Democratic Republic of Congo to suspend the award of new
logging allocations and the renewal or extension of existing
titles.


But Greenpeace said that foreign companies including German-Swiss
group Danzer (Siforco), the Portuguese group NST group,
Singapore-based Olam, Belgium's Sicobois and Lebanon's Trans-M
had all had new contracts signed after this moratorium.


"The majority have therefore benefited from the World Bank's
failure to ensure that the moratorium it negotiated with the
transitional DRC government and other forestry sector reforms
have been enforced."


The environmental group also said that it feared a review of
logging authorisations, initiated by the World Bank, would end up
validating illegal permits granted to some companies.


"Greenpeace has investigated the actions of most of the major
logging companies whose contracts have been submitted to the
legal review.


"Our findings expose serious lapses of governance, a massive lack
of institutional capacity to control the forestry sector,
widespread illegalities and social conflicts, as well as clashes
with established conservation initiatives," it said.


Greenpeace said that, according to a review of the 156 contracts,
107 were signed after the May 2002 moratorium.


And nearly half of the 156 titles are in intact forest landscapes
which are critical for carbon storage and very significant for
wildlife protection.


Because comprehensive maps are not publicly available, the
location of 13 contracts covering 1.7 million hectares  -- an
area the size of Kuwait -- cannot be determined, it said.


The Democratic Republic of Congo has the second-largest primal
tropical forest in the world with 86 million hectares of which 60
million are potentially exploitable for logging.

