

The eastern fringes of Europe boast some of the fastest growing
economies outside Asia, but wise public spending and careful
reform are needed to maintain the boom, the International
Monetary Fund said in a major report released Wednesday.


The 12 ex-Soviet countries of the CIS are set to see brisk
economic expansion on high commodity prices and strengthened
domestic demand, the IMF's annual World Economic Outlook said,
but inflation and overdependence on raw materials remain serious
risks as GDP growth slows.


Further west, the economies of central and eastern Europe are
also likely to see growth slow amid the pangs of merging into the
European Union, the report said.


An ebbing of growth in the CIS will not push it too far down the
global expansion table, however.


"While real GDP growth is expected to moderate, its pace would be
second only to emerging Asia among the major regions," the report
said.


In Russia, the economic powerhouse of the CIS, a mild easing of
growth is expected, from 6.7 percent last year, to 6.4 percent
this year, to 5.9 percent in 2008, the IMF said.


Oil production growth is slowing as past underinvestment catches
up with the country's major producers, while further growth
becomes harder as most latent capacity has been used.


For Ukraine, a country in the midst of a full-scale political
crisis and digesting rapidly growing gas bills from Russia, the
fund expects a sharper slowdown from 7.1 percent GDP growth in
2006, to 5.0 percent this year, to 4.6 percent in 2008.


As a whole, GDP growth in the twelve ex-Soviet countries of the
CIS is set to slip from 7.7 percent last year, to 7.0 percent
this year, to 6.4 percent in 2008 according to the report


Across the region, price growth remains a major risk, with
inflation rates among the highest in the world.


"In the context of already strong domestic demand, governments
will need to be careful to avoid excessive public spending
increases, particularly in areas that boost consumption -- such
as on pensions and wages -- and exert upward pressure on
inflation," the report said.


"Governments should ensure that expenditures are geared toward
generating high- quality growth that is not linked to the
commodity price cycle and are allocated efficiently in the
context of often weak institutional capacity."


The fund's long wish-list for reforms in the region stretches
across the economy, with changes urged in financial markets, the
civil service, energy, tax, property rights, and the legal
system.


Governments should also act on corruption and excess state
intervention, the IMF researchers said.


In the countries of "emerging Europe," which include the former
Soviet bloc of the Baltics, central and southern Europe as well
as Malta and Turkey, GDP growth is also on downward curve: from
6.0 percent in 2006, to 5.5 percent in 2007, to 5.3 percent in
2008, the report said.


"Continuing structural improvements are critical to facilitate
continuing smooth convergence within the European Union and
ensure the broader competitiveness of these countries," the
report said.


Labour market reform is key in eastern Europe, with unemployment
in excess of 10 percent in Poland and Slovakia.


Another priority is to control government spending, including
improved targeting of social welfare payments and addressing
pressures on pension and healthcare costs from rapidly ageing
populations.


Turkey and Hungary, which both experienced currency shocks in the
past year, represented "two salient exceptions to this generally
positive pattern."

