

West Indies captain Brian Lara will retire from the one-day game
in the wake of his side's miserable World Cup campaign.


The 37-year-old record-breaking batsman confirmed that his last
two games will be the Super Eights clashes against Bangladesh and
England in Barbados on April 19 and April 21.


His decision came in the wake of his team's 67-run defeat to
South Africa on Tuesday which left the hosts with virtually no
chance of reaching the semi- finals.


"I think this is the end of my one-day career, for sure," said
Lara.


"I honestly feel that my game is over and we should give it to
one of the younger players. It's really tough playing one-day
internationals out there when you are 37-38 years old.


"After the World Cup the next one-day tournament for the West
Indies is in in England and I'd love to sit back and watch and
see the team do well.


"I want to leave a team that play better. And that is still my
hope. These might be my last two one-day internationals but I
still want to see the team moving out of this competition
learning something from it and that's all I can hope for.


"It's demoralising yes but I want to see certain things happen
and I want to see the team move on."


West Indies crashed to their fourth successive Super Eights loss
which left them on two points and needing a miracle series of
results to allow them to creep into the semi-finals.


Lara, in his third term as skipper, has been under fire
throughout the tournament with a host of former players and
pundits calling for him to stand down as captain.


He has played 297 ODIs and scored 10,354 runs at 40.60 with 19
hundreds and 63 half-centuries.


After four successive defeats in the Super Eights, Lara felt
compelled to apologise to the Caribbean fans.


"We are all disappointed and we are very sorry for the way we
have performed in this World Cup," said Lara.


"All we can say is that we are sorry to our people."


"There will be no semi-final place for us but we have to play
with pride and character in the next two games. It's a chance to
show we can perform with pride and character."


West Indies qualified for the Super Eights with three wins in
three matches in the first round which included a victory against
Pakistan.


"We beat Pakistan with disciplined bowling and fielding," said
Lara.


"We weren't as convincing as maybe we should have been. But we
are ranked eight in the world so we were the underdogs. However,
we expected to do better than we did."


South Africa captain Graeme Smith, whose side piled up 356 after
being put into bat by West Indies, paid tribute to Lara.


"It's sad to see him go," said Smith.


"He's been an unbelievable performer for the West Indies and has
got them out of trouble plenty of times.


"He has been a great servant to the team and I hope the West
Indies give him a great send off in the last two matches."

