

Local hero Zhang Lian-wei will be hoping a home ground advantage
can help steer his way to a second triumph here in the Volvo
China Open on Thursday.


Zhang, 41, will be on familiar ground when he tees off at the
Shanghai Silport Golf Club, the venue where he enjoyed his first
win in 2003.


With five wins in Asia, Zhang is among the top contenders at this
week's two- million-dollar co-sanctioned Asian Tour and European
Tour event, alongside compatriot Liang Wen-chong, who is also
riding on good form and currently ranked second on the Asian
Tour's UBS Order of Merit.


Other stars out for glory include Asian Tour winners American
Jason Knutzon, Malaysian Airil Rizman Zahari, Filipino Frankie
Minoza, Chapchai Nirat of Thailand and South African Anton Haig.


The notable European stalwarts are 2004 Volvo China Open winner
Stephen Dodd, England's Scott Drummond and Denmark's Thomas
Bjorn.


But it is Zhang who is on a mission this week, hoping the home
fans will get behind him. He says he has finally adjusted to his
new swing technique and is determined it will bring him the
success he has enjoyed in previous years.


"I have been working hard on my swing. People notice the change
now, as I've been working on my swing technique for the past
year," said Zhang.


"I've also stuck to using only one putter in the past one month.
I used to change putters three to four times a week before, but I
decided to stick to one now. I'll have more time to get used to
it, instead of jumping from one to another," added the Chinese
talent.


Compatriot Liang is working hard to find the intricate balance on
and off the course ahead of this week's challenge in Shanghai.


Despite not being able to spend enough time preparing for the
event, Liang hopes to finish among the frontrunners to achieve
his main goal of a top-50 finish on the Official World Golf
Ranking by the end of 2007.


"It will definitely be the highest honour if I get to win one
here. I hope to finish strongly, not only because this is my home
Open, but also to achieve my goal this season which is to finish
in the top 50 in the world," said Liang, who lifted the co-
sanctioned Singapore Masters last month.


The Volvo China Open celebrates its 13th edition this year with a
record prize fund of two million dollars. The Shanghai Silport
Golf Club returns as the host, having previously staged the event
from 1999-2004.

