

Four leading Muslim organisations in Germany banded together
Wednesday in an umbrella group to speak with one voice in the
community's dealings with the government.


Rafet Ozturk of the Turkish Islamic Union for Religious Affairs
(DITIB) said the group had joined forces with the Central Council
of Muslims, the Islamic Council and the Association of Islamic
Cultural Centres.


He said the groups would remain independent but attempt to find
common positions on issues affecting the community including
immigration, integration and extremism under the auspices of the
new Muslim Coordination Council.


"We want to put ourselves to the test on whether we can take
decisions together," Ozturk said.


More than 3.2 million Muslims live in Germany, of which about
300,000 are members of Islamic organisations.


About 2.4 million Turks or people of Turkish descent, many of
them descendents of "guest workers" invited to Germany in the
1960s and 1970s, live in the country, while around 200,000 of
Germany's Muslims came from North Africa.


There are about 100,000 Iranians in the community and 100,000
Muslims from former Yugoslavia according to official estimates.


DITIB, a Sunni organisation, is the largest group with about
130,000 members.


Germany's left-right government called a meeting in September,
the first of its kind, bringing together political leaders and
Muslim community representatives.


Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble of Chancellor Angela
Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats had complained that the
Muslim community's internal divisions made it difficult to find
an interlocutor on pressing issues.


He said at the September gathering that he hoped the
organisations and the government could begin a two-year dialogue
addressing integration, Islamic extremism, Islamic religious
instruction in schools and the training of imams.


An interior ministry spokesman welcomed Wednesday's announcement
ahead of a new meeting between the government and the Islamic
groups on May 2.


But he said the issue of representation was still unclear as only
a fraction of Muslims belong to community organisations.


"It remains unclear who represents (Muslims in Germany). The
question remains of how we deal with representation of Muslims in
Germany," he told a regular government news conference.


"We recognise a major attempt among Muslims to distance
themselves from spreading violence."


But Lale Akgun, a member of parliament and the Social Democratic
Party's spokeswoman on Islam, said she did not feel represented
by the new council.


"I would have many sleepless nights if these four organisations
formed an umbrella group and had the right to define Islam in
Germany," she told the daily Rheinischer Merkur.


"These four groups together would represent a very conservative
kind of Islam. There would be no place for liberal views."


Council leaders dismissed the criticism, saying they represented
the majority of mosques in Germany.

