

Valencia should have known that Chelsea never give up until the
final whistle, as nearly a third of their goals this season have
come in the final 10 minutes of a game.


Michael Essien's stunning late winner to give Chelsea a 2-1
victory over Valencia in their Champions League quarter-final,
second leg on Tuesday added to the statistics as well as cruelly
dumping the Spaniards out of the competition.


The Ghanaian midfielder's strike in the dying seconds of normal
time was their 33rd out of a total of 105 goals in all
competitions that have come after 80 minutes have gone by on the
clock.


"This is a team that keeps going until the final whistle," said
The Blues' England international Frank Lampard.


"We believe we can score at any moment and we were looking to win
2-1 to avoid extra time and any surprises," added Lampard.


Essien's last-gasp goal came in the wake of Valencia's Fernando
Morientes opening the scoring after 32 minutes and then Andrey
Shevchenko's equaliser six minutes after the break.


Part of the reason that Chelsea's engine keeps on running while
other teams are starting to splutter is their sheer stamina.


"Essien is a special player, he's an athlete that can run without
stopping and could play in a game everyday," eulogised Chelsea
coach Jose Mourinho after the match.


"That's why I was so concerned about him before the game. I
wanted him to play in the Champions League," added Mourinho.


Essien's recent injuries meant Mourinho had only made a final
decision to include him on Monday evening, after resting him for
Chelsea's 1-0 win over Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday.


"I took a look at him on Monday night in the last training
session. I said to him, 'Do you want to go on holiday or do you
want to play?' He told me he wanted to play," explained Mourinho.


The player proved to all concerned that he had not come to the
Mediterranean for a vacation.


"Physically they were better than us," conceded Valencia winger
Joaquin Sanchez, the service provider for Morientes' goal. Other
Valencia players had similar sentiments.


"They were very tough. We weren't far behind but perhaps they had
more gasoline in the tank," added Asier Del Horno, who had more
insight than most into his opponents after having moved from
Chelsea to Valencia last summer.


"They were superior to us in the second halves  of both matches.
Valencia didn't have the resources to respond to them," commented
Valencia coach Quique Flores.


"However, we've recovered our prestige in Europe after the two
defeats in the Champions League finals (of 2000 and 2001) a few
years ago. Everyone knows who we are now, although this was a
very painful defeat," added Flores.


Valencia's players and Flores perhaps should have listened more
closely though to Mourinho before the game.


The Portuguese coach revealed all they need to know about
Chelsea's philosophy and his ability to impart his ideas in his
men.


"I tell the players that the game isn't over until the final
whistle. You can score at any time until the referee tells us all
to go home and at the same time you might need to stop the other
side from scoring in the last minute," said Mourinho at the pre-
match press conference.


It was advice that Flores could have passed on to his own players
as they were clearly hanging on for a breather and extra time in
the final minutes of Tuesday's match before Essien brought the
pulsating game to an abrupt end.

