

The US military on Wednesday charged publicly for the first time
that Shiite Iranian intelligence agents were supporting Sunni
extremists who are fighting American-led forces in Iraq.


Over the past two years, Washington and top US commanders have
repeatedly accused Iranian elements of aiding Shiite militias in
their sectarian fight against Sunni Arabs in Iraq and in waging
attacks on US troops.


But displaying what he said were newly manufactured Iranian
weapons found in Baghdad, Major General William Caldwell said US
authorities were now aware of Iranian help to the Sunni
extremists who lead the anti-American insurgency.


"We do have now some information that Iranian intelligence
agencies have supported some Sunni extremist groups," the
military spokesman said.


He did not name those groups but said the latest indication of
Iranian influence on insurgents came after debriefing some
security detainees.


Caldwell charged that Iranian intelligence agencies were
continuing to train armed Iraqi groups.


"This training is provided by surrogates of (Iranian)
intelligence services," he said. "There are groups receiving
training in Iran and modern weapons are smuggled in Iraq to be
used against Iraqi and coalition forces."


"We know that training has been going on as recently as this
month."


The US commander said Iranians were also training Iraqi groups on
how to assemble explosively-formed projectiles -- a type of
armour-piercing roadside bomb behind many coalition casualties.


"We know that training goes down there in Iran," Caldwell
stressed.


He displayed a cache of recently made explosives, bearing dates
of 2005 and 2006, which he said were made in Iran and were found
in a black Mercedes car in Baghdad's Sunni district of Jihad
outside a house on Monday.


The mortar rounds and rockets were discovered after a local
resident tipped off a nearby joint Iraqi-US outpost, he said.


Caldwell also revealed that four US Apache helicopters were hit
during a raging battle with militants in the capital's Al-Fadhel
district on Tuesday in a fight that left four Iraqi soldiers
killed and 16 US soldiers wounded.


Earlier Wednesday, US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Scott
Bleichwehl told AFP in an email that 20 militants had been
"killed in action" during the fight, which erupted in the heart
of the Iraqi capital.


A statement issued on behalf of Operation Fardh al-Qanoon
(Imposing Law) by Iraqi authorities said "19 terrorists" were
killed over the past 24 hours in the Rusafa district on the east
bank of the Tigris where Al-Fadhel is.


Since February 14, Iraqi and US troops have waged a massive
security crackdown in Baghdad that has seen American officials
upbeat about signs of progress and a decline in execution-style
killings.


But the International Committee of the Red Cross said in a new
report on Wednesday that the operation had not yet stabilised
Baghdad.


"It's clear for us that the humanitarian situation is steadily
worsening and affecting in one way or another, directly or
indirectly, all Iraqis today," ICRC's director Pierre
Kraehenbuehl told journalists in Geneva.


Iraq's key Shiite political bloc meanwhile issued another threat
to withdraw key support for the embattled Shiite-led government
in Baghdad.


The group of radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr said it would
withdraw support after Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki rejected
demands to set a time-table for the withdrawal of US troops from
Iraq.


Sadr's political group has 30 lawmakers in the 275-member
parliament and six ministers in Maliki's coalition. Any walkout
by the faction would be the second in less than five months and
underscore the premier's vulnerability.


On Monday, a massive rally organised by the group in the holy
city of Najaf called for the end of "US occupation" of Iraq.

