

Turkey on Wednesday piled up pressure on Iraq to take "urgent"
measures against Turkish Kurd rebels based in the north of the
country amid tensions sparked by Iraqi Kurdish threats to
interfere in Ankara's affairs.


A foreign ministry spokesman said a diplomatic note handed to
Baghdad Monday contained demands for action against the Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK), listed as a terrorist group by Turkey and
much of the international community, whose militants have taken
refuge in neighbouring northern Iraq.


"Turkey demanded that Iraq ensures its border security and
captures and hands over to Turkey members of the PKK terrorist
organisation," Levent Bilman told reporters.


"Determined and urgent steps are expected from Iraq on this
issue. The matter is urgent," he added.


A diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, Turkey also
wanted the closure of organisations linked to the PKK and Baghdad
to include the PKK on its list of terrorist groups.


Turkey charges that Iraqi Kurds, who run an autonomous
administration in northern Iraq, tolerate, and even support,
thousands of PKK militants who have found refuge in their region.


The rebels, it says, are able to obtain weapons and explosives
there for attacks on Turkish targets across the border.


Ankara has threatened a military incursion into northern Iraq if
Baghdad and Washington fail to act against the PKK.


Tensions flared this week after Massud Barzani, head of the
Kurdish adminsitration in northern Iraq, was quoted as
threatening to interfere in adjoining southeast Turkey, where the
two-decade PKK insusrgency has already claimed about 37,000
lives.


Barzani suggested Iraqi Kurds would fan unrest among Turkish
Kurds if Ankara continued to oppose Iraqi Kurdish ambitions to
attach the oil-rich ethnically volatile Iraqi city of Kirkuk to
their enclave.


On Tuesday, Turkey's top ministers and military chief discussed
"political, economic and other approaches to be followed"
vis-a-vis the Iraqi Kurds.


Bilman declined to say what measures were discussed.


Media reports suggested Ankara may consider economic sanctions
such as cutting electricty supplies to northern Iraq and closing
the only border crossing between Turkey and the region.


In a bid ease tensions, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on
Wednesday emphasised that it was his government and not any
single leader that decides on regional issues, and stressed
Baghdad's policy "to maintain best relations with neighbours."


President Jalal Talabani has already telephoned Turksih Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to express regret over Barzani's
remarks.

