

Radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's movement on Wednesday
threatened to pull out of the Iraqi government after the prime
minister opposed laying down a timetable for a US troop
withdrawal.


The threats came in a statement from the political committee of
Sadr's office, read to AFP over the telephone by MP Saleh Hassan
Issa al-Igaili, a lawmaker of the Sadr bloc in Iraq's parliament.


Sadr's political group has 30 lawmakers in the 275-member
parliament and six ministers in Maliki's coalition. Any walkout
by the faction would be the second in less than five months and
underscore the premier's vulnerability.


"The Sadr trend strongly rejects the statement of Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki, who adheres to the occupation forces remaining
despite the will of the Iraqi people," said Igaili, reading from
the statement.


"Therefore, the Sadr trend is studying the option of withdrawing
from the Iraqi government, which failed to honour its obligations
towards the citizens in providing security and public services,"
the statement said.


"We stress our intention to withdraw from the Iraqi government."


The statement also lashed out at what it called "the unjust
application" of an ongoing Iraqi and US security plan in Baghdad,
which officials say has seen Sadr's Mahdi Army melt away from the
streets of the capital to avoid capture.


Speaking during a visit to Tokyo on Tuesday, Maliki rejected
demands by the US Congress for a timetable to pull out American
troops, saying the withdrawal should be based on the situation on
the ground.


The Sadr group is rigorously anti-American.


A huge demonstration it organised on Monday, the fourth
anniversary of the fall of Baghdad, saw tens of thousands support
a call from the radical cleric to urge foreign forces to leave.


Sadr's political group last boycotted the Iraqi government for
two months from November 29 until late January to protest against
a meeting between the beleaguered Maliki and US President George
W. Bush in Jordan.

