

The Italian government Thursday will outline in parliament the
circumstances surrounding the Taliban's release of a kidnapped
Italian journalist, parliamentarians said Wednesday.


"The decision was unanimous... The House of Freedoms (right-wing
opposition) has asked that the government be represented at the
highest level," said Massimo Donadi, of the Italy of Values
Party, part of the ruling centre-left coalition.


Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema is expected to answer questions
about the release last month of La Repubblica correspondent
Daniele Mastrogiacomo in parliament late Thursday morning,
Italian newspapers reported.


Mastrogiacomo was held captive for two weeks last month and his
Afghan driver was beheaded.


He was released in a swap for five Taliban prisoners that angered
many Afghans and prompted the United States and other countries
to condemn negotiations with "terrorists".


The crisis deepened over the weekend when Afghan freelance
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was acting as Mastrogiacomo's
interpreter, was executed by his Taliban captors, who claimed
Afghan authorities had refused to negotiate over their demands
for the release of two Taliban militants.


The Italian and Afghan governments have since been blasted by
critics for hypocrisy and cynicism.


Right-wing opposition leader and former premier Silvio Berlusconi
has called on his supporters to put a stop to the controversy for
"humanitarian reasons and Italy's reputation," after D'Alema
proposed to shed light on all hostage releases in recent years,
including those negotiated under the Berlusconi government in
2001-2006.


Italian aid organisation Emergency, which announced Wednesday
that it was pulling all its foreign staff out of Afghanistan, has
also chastised Rome for not doing enough to free Naqshbandi.


The group, which has been working in Afghanistan for 10 years,
has also criticised the Italian government for not doing enough
to secure the release of the Afghan head of one of its hospitals,
who played a role in freeing Mastrogiacomo and who is believed to
be held by the Afghan secret service.

