

Two car bomb attacks rocked the Algerian capital on Wednesday,
killing at least 17 people and injuring more than 100 outside the
government headquarters and on the road to the international
airport.


Though no claim of responsibility was made, the attacks came as
Algeria and neighbouring Morocco battle mounting Islamic
extremism.


The civil defence department said in a statement that the blast
outside the seat of government in central Algiers left nine
people dead, while shortly afterwards eight people were killed in
the eastern suburb of Bab Ezzouar.


The Interior Ministry said 110 people were injured in the two
attacks, which Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhamed condemned as
"criminal and cowardly." Witnesses said many of the injured were
in critical condition.


The first explosion at the government headquarters shook several
buildings and sent shattered glass flying up to 300 meters
(yards), witnesses said.


Ambulances and police cars immediately rushed to the
headquarters, which houses the office of the prime minister and
several ministries.


More than one hour after the explosion, which was heard across
the capital, a thick cloud of smoke rose was still rising from
the site of the blast.


Thousands of people congregated on the vast steps of the building
and uniformed and plainclothes police struggled to contain the
crowd.


Minutes later, witnesses said three car bombs went off in Bab
Ezzouar, on the road to the international airport and not far
from one of Algeria's largest universities.


One blast demolished an electricity sub-station, while the other
two badly damaged a police station.


There was no immediate claim of responsibility for any of the
attacks, which come as the Algerian authorities are struggling to
curb an upswing in Islamist activity.


At least 33 people, including about 15 security officers, have
been killed in clashes with Islamist militants since the
beginning of April, according to official figures and media
reports.


In February 2006, the government offered an amnesty to any
Islamists who surrendered.


The latest blasts came five days after nine Algerian soldiers and
at least six Islamist militants were killed when a military
convoy was ambushed in a forested area west of Algiers.


The Algerian army has been involved in an offensive in the
eastern region of Kabylie against an Islamist militant group that
has claimed responsibility for a series of deadly attacks.


The Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) is an Al-
Qaeda-linked north African group feared by France as its main
terrorist threat.


Algeria is not the only north African state struggling to keep a
lid on militant activity, with neighbours Tunisia and Morocco
facing a similar challenge from Islamist groups.


In Morocco on Wednesday, police hunted 10 possible suicide
bombers in Casablanca, a day after three suspected militants blew
themselves up as they were being chased.


All were wanted in connection with a March 11 bomb that exploded
in a Casablanca Internet cafe.


In that attack, the bomber, Abdelfettah Raydi, died and his
suspected accomplice and three customers were injured.

