

Asian stocks closed mixed Wednesday with the broad tone remaining
positive after slight gains on Wall Street overnight helped
Seoul, Jakarta and Shanghai to close at record highs.


However, most markets were also consolidating in the wake of
sharp gains and ahead of further economic indicators due out of
the United States, the region's largest market for exports, later
in the week.


This was typified in Tokyo, Sydney, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and
Mumbai where all five benchmarks ended the day flat.


Elsewhere, Bangkok was among the standouts with 0.82 percent
surge amid support for its oil sector, Taipei was up 0.45 percent
and Hong Kong gained 0.82 percent.


But profit taking pushed Wellington down 0.80 percent and Manila
fell 0.31 percent.


TOKYO: Share prices closed almost flat as worries about domestic
corporate capital spending offset a positive lead from Wall
Street.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 5.38 points to 17,670.07. Volume
slipped to 1.81 billion shares from 1.99 billion on Tuesday.


On Wall Street shares closed slightly higher Tuesday as the first
quarter earnings season began, but dealers in Tokyo remained
cautious after a bigger- than-expected 5.2 percent fall in
Japanese machinery orders in February.


"Overall trade was lethargic, and investors adopted a wait-and-
see stance, as they would like to see earnings results in the US
and Japan," said Hideyuki Suzuki, a strategist at SBI Securities.


The approach of the fixing of the special quotation for April
stock index options on Friday also deterred investors from buying
actively as it can bring volatile trading, dealers said.


"As the special quotation is slated for this Friday, the market
is expected to stay within narrow ranges for the rest of this
week," said Suzuki.


Worries that the yen might come into focus at this Friday's
meeting of Group of Seven finance chiefs also weighed on
sentiment given the positive influence of the currency's weakness
on Japanese exporter earnings, dealers said.


Recent losers in the real estate and utilities sectors led the
gainers this morning because of bargain-hunting, dealers said.


Nomura Real Estate rose 30 yen to 4,020.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.50 percent higher as another
record finish on China's A-share bourses helped the market
reverse modest losses earlier due to profit-taking.


China stocks, notably financials, led the gains while local
property plays and blue chips were weak ahead of the release of
US Federal Reserve meeting minutes later Wednesday and key US
inflation data in the next few days.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 101.56 points at 20,449.43.
Turnover was 59.07 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.6 billion US).


"China's A-share market touched a new high today... and boosted
interest in select China stocks here," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"Investors in the mainland are somehow ignoring the (Chinese)
government's warning against overheating in certain sectors of
the economy," he said.


China Life surged 0.95 to 24.15.


"Today's trade shows that local investors are getting more and
more sensitive to what's happening in the mainland's A-shares
market," said Pang.


He said that investors are switching their attention from blue
chips to China- related stocks as the latter have more attractive
valuations.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.95 percent higher following
overnight gains on Wall Street, with the main index hitting a new
all-time high.


Dealers said foreign investors snapped up large cap IT stocks,
offsetting profit-taking by others who sought to lock in recent
gains ahead of the central Bank of Korea's interest rate decision
and expiry of options Thursday.


Gains were broad, with large cap IT stocks, builders and
brokerages among the most sought.


The KOSPI index closed up 14.26 points at 1,513.42. Volume was
379 million shares worth 5.1 trillion won (5.5 billion dollars).


LG Philips LCD jumped more than eight percent after its first
quarter results beat market expectations. It posted a fourth
consecutive quarterly loss but the result encouraged hopes for a
turnaround, dealers said.


"The market posted solid gains today, backed by foreign
investors' interest in both spots and futures and hopes for an
improvement in the IT industry," said Bookook Securities analyst
Lim Jung-Hyun.


He said he saw further gains, possibly up to 1,600 points, as the
market has succeeded in breaking through last year's narrow
range. But he warned that short-term profit-taking is inevitable.


"Some profit-taking temptation will emerge in the short-term,
especially ahead of Samsung Electronics' earnings release this
Friday and the upcoming GDP release in China," Lim said.


A reconciliatory mood on the North Korean nuclear issue, the
recent trade accord between South Korea and the US, as well as
capital moving out of the real estate market will contribute to
further stock market gains, he added.


Samsung Electronics up 21,000 won at 599,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.45 percent higher as sentiment was
bolstered by Wall Street's extended gains overnight.


Dealers said the market gained further momentum as local firms
reported better- than-expected sales and earnings for the first
quarter to March.


The weighted index closed up 36.06 points at 8,084.45 on turnover
of 114.01 billion Taiwan dollars (3.45 billion US).


Yuanta Core Pacific Capital Management Co assistant vice
president Jack Tam said positive domestic and overseas leads
supported the day's trade.


"Riding on the New York lead, investors were willing to beef up
their portfolios with stocks that have solid fundamentals," he
said.


However, Tam said that some profit-taking put a lid on the
market's upside as investors awaited corporate guidance for the
period ahead.


"Many companies are due to hold their quarterly briefing for
investors soon, keeping some investors at bay before corporate
guidance is unveiled."


Shin Kong Financial Holding Co closed up 0.50 Taiwan dollars at
31.30 as investors responded to the company's concrete earnings
results in the first quarter to March, with net profit at 7.03
billion dollars.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co rose 0.80 to 69.30.


SHANGHAI: Share prices reached a new high, adding 1.48 percent on
continuing strong buying interest, with banking stocks and
steelmakers gaining ground.


Dealers said the bullish run will continue in the short term as
more companies will issue their annual and quarterly reports with
better results.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 50.93 points at 3,495.22.
Turnover was still heavy, setting a new record of 156.21 billion
yuan (20.20 billion US dollars).


"Buying interest remains very strong despite some profit-taking
seen in early afternoon trade, as institutional buying in blue
chips such as Sinopec boosted the indices," Xu Ming, an analyst
at Shiji Investment said.


Sinopec was up 0.75 yuan or 7.10 percent at 11.32.


Analysts said the upward momentum will be sustained on the back
of solid corporate earnings.


"In the short term, the strong momentum is likely to continue, as
more companies issue better-than-expected annual and quarterly
results in coming weeks," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang
Securities.


Banking stocks were buoyed by a surge in China Merchants Bank,
dealers said.


China Merchants Bank was up 1.13 yuan at 19.13. It said the
Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation have
approved a 900 million yuan cut in its taxes.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed flat as late profit-taking weighed on
positive investor sentiment.


The SP/ASX 200 closed down 1.6 points at 6,151.4. A total of 1.88
billion shares worth 6.4 billion dollars (5.3 billion US) were
traded.


Reynolds and Co private client advisor Michael Heffernan said
solid buying of mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto kept the
market supported as it flirted with deeper negative territory
around midday.


Heffernan also noted the banks were firmer with investors chasing
value ahead of the upcoming earnings reports.


"Good buying with good volumes. We could be in for a rally for
the next couple weeks at least," he said.


Index leading resources BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto followed the
strong gains in their London-listed stocks due to higher base
metal prices, with BHP up 0.12 to 30.60 dollars while Rio Tinto
jumped 1.72 or 2.10 percent to 83.50.


Retailer Coles Group continued to rise above the 16.47 dollars
per share takeover offer by Wesfarmers last week which a private
equity consortium led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) said on
Tuesday it is likely to trump.


Coles shares advanced 0.05 to end at 17.38.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed steady near record highs after
recovering from intraday losses.


The Straits Times Index fell 2.0 points to 3,420.62. Volume
totalled 3.07 billion shares worth 2.29 billion Singapore dollars
(1.51 billion US).


"It's just a case of the market being too good lately, so people
want to take some profits for the moment," UOB KayHian analyst
Yang Sy Jian said, after the Index reached consecutive record
highs in recent days.


Preliminary government figures released Monday showed the economy
grew 6.0 percent in the first quarter.


Bank stocks were lower with DBS Group Holdings down 0.10 at
22.70, Oversea- Chinese Banking Corp losing 0.05 at 9.65 and
United Overseas Bank falling 0.10 to 22.60.


Keppel Land shed 0.20 to 8.95.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed flat with investors cautious
ahead of the first quarter earnings season in the United States.


Dealers said the market saw late profit-taking in selected blue
chips after the recent rally, but plantation stocks extended
their gains given the sector's bullish outlook.


The composite index shed 0.12 points to 1,306.22 on volume of
2.30 billion shares worth 2.903 billion ringgit (841.32 million
dollars).


Phillip Capital chief investment officer Ang Kok Heng attributed
the rally among plantation stocks to higher crude oil prices as
well as the expected lower production of soybean oil in the US.


"CPO prices are likely to stay very firm going forward given that
any increase in palm oil production will be taken up for biofuel
use. As a result, there could be more upside for plantation
stocks," the fund manager said.


Meanwhile, OSK Investment Bank head of research Kenny Yee said he
does not expect the first quarter earnings season in the US to
have any major impact on the local market but cautioned that the
local bourse is bound for a correction.


Phillip Capital's Ang said investors will monitor the US market
closely and any downside surprise on Wall Street could trigger a
sell-off in the local bourse.


Tenaga was up 0.10 at 11.90.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.82 percent higher, led by gains in
energy-linked stocks as oil prices continued to hold firm above
60 dollars a barrel.


But dealers said the trading volume was thin as investors stayed
on the sidelines amid worries over possible terror attacks in
Thailand during the five- day Buddhist New Year holiday, which
begins on Friday.


The Bank of Thailand's move to cut its key interest rate by a
half-point to 4.0 percent had little impact on the market as it
was widely expected among investors.


The composite index rose 5.62 points to 695.10 on turnover of
1.03 billion shares worth 9.2 billion baht (263 million dollars).


"The market leader today was the energy sector as global oil
prices continued to trade above 60 dollars per barrel," said
Kavee Chukitkasem, an assistant managing director at Kasikorn
Securities.


But Kavee said overall market gains were modest as investors
traded with caution amid growing fears over domestic terror
attacks during the upcoming Buddhist New Year holiday.


On Tuesday, Australia reissued its travel advice on Thailand
after a small bomb blast in a Bangkok shopping centre,
reiterating a warning of possible bombings during the holiday.


PTT rose 8.00 baht to 216.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 0.29 percent higher with the main
index at a fresh all-time intraday high amid gains in selected
bluechips.


The composite index closed up 5.573 points at 1,931.044. Volume
was 2.74 billion shares worth 3.9 trillion rupiah (428.81 million
dollars).


"Some selected blue chips are still attractive," said Oos Rosady,
an institutional dealer with Mandiri Securities, while noting
that technically many stocks appear to be richly valued now.


He added that news of a rise in investment approvals during the
first quarter probably helped underpin the broadly upbeat
sentiment.


Telkom gained 150 to 10,450.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.31 percent lower on Wednesday on
profit-taking among selected blue-chips while the rest of the
market took a breather.


The composite index closed 10.21 points lower at 3,294.21. Volume
totalled 5.0 billion shares worth 3.96 billion pesos (82.57
million dollars).


"What happened today is more of a technical correction. Investors
overlooked the fundamentals to take profits from recent gains
since many issues are already at overbought levels," said Jose
Vistan of AB Capital Securities Inc.


"Investors are still digesting the positive news on the economic
front, and the market may bounce back during the latter part of
the week," said Astro del Castillo of First Grade Holdings Inc.


Jollibee Foods Corp was down 2.50 to 57.50.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.80 percent lower as the
prospect of further interest rate rises dampened sentiment.


Dealers said possible factors in the fall of leading stocks were
a lull in corporate news and the spectre of another interest rate
rise.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 33.11 points to 4,147.36 on turnover
worth 133.5 million dollars (97.6 million US).


"We had a very strong employment figure out. There doesn't seem
to be an easing in sight with regards to interest rates," said
James Smalley, client adviser at Hamilton, Hindin, Greene.


"That's also reflected in our dollar being very strong as well,
which I think is probably affecting the overall market."


Figures out on Wednesday showed a further decline in the number
of people on unemployment benefits and a business survey a day
earlier showed many businesses expected continuing inflationary
pressures.


These pressures may encourage the central bank to raise interest
rates again later this month.


Telecom fell six cents to 4.69 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices edged lower, snapping five straight days of
gains, as buyers turned cautious ahead of the earnings season
which kicks off Friday.


Dealers said investors will await direction from earnings and
guidance from software export heavyweight Infosys Technologies on
Friday.


The benchmark 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex fell 6.30
points or 0.05 percent to 13,183.24 in choppy trade.


"The markets shed its early morning gains. Activity will improve
only after Infosys earnings come in. A correction is likely if
software sector earnings disappoint," said Manoj Kakaiya, dealer
with brokerage ULJK Securities.

