

African countries will see a sharp jump in growth this year, the
IMF said Wednesday, while noting that sound economic management
remains a key to sustaining the improvement.


The International Monetary Fund in an assessment of the world
economy described the short-termn outlook for Africa as "very
positive," reflecting rising oil prices in crude exporters,
macroeconomic stability, a strong demand for commodities and debt
relief.


Growth is projected to increase to 6.2 percent in 2007 from 5.5
percent in 2006 before easing back to 5.8 percent in 2008 in the
face of possible slower global momentum.


A rising euro could also hamper exports from African countries
using the CFA franc used in former French colonies, which is
pegged to the single European currency, the Fund said in its
twice-yearly World Economic Outlook report.


Focusing on sub-Saharan Africa, where momentum is seen picking up
from 5.7 percent in 2006 to 6.8 percent this year, the IMF noted
that while armed conflict and political unrest continue to
undermine prospects, "the frequency of such events in the region
as a whole has declined over the past decade."


"This suggests that economic policy, rather than sociopolitical
developments, will be the main determinant of whether strong
growth continues or not," the Fund said.


It called for boosting the performance of non-commodity sectors,
fewer restrictions on trade, tighter curbs on government spending
in oil-exporting nations and steps to improve the business
climate.


The report said that in South Africa, where growth will likely
slow this year to 4.7 percent from 5.0 percent in 2006, the
current account deficit has widened to 6.5 percent of output
while inflation has risen to near the upper limit of a 3.0 to 6.0
percent target band.


While the South African central bank has "appropriately"
tightened monetary policy, "further interest rate increases may
still be needed to counter inflationary pressures, which could
result in a sharper growth slowdown."


"Given the importance of South Africa, particularly for the rest
of southern Africa, any such slowing could negatively affect
other countries."


But in the near term, sub-Saharan Africa's fortunes will be
positively driven by oil exporters.


The IMF pointed to new oil production facilities that will become
operational in Angola and Equatorial Guinea. In Nigeria, where
output has been disrupted by violence in the Niger Delta,
production is expected to be fully restored by the middle of the
year.


Nigeria has also managed to boost its non-oil related gross
domestic product by an average of 8.0 percent over the last three
years.


Throughout Africa, inflation -- apart from Zimbabwe -- is easing
and fiscal and and current balances are in surplus, thanks
largely to oil producers, according to the IMF.

