

An admission by South African Finance Minister Trevor Manuel that
Black Economic Empowerment needs an overhaul has handed fuel to
critics who say the flagship policy has only benefited an elite.


BEE was drawn up by the African National Congress government soon
after it took power in 1994 in a bid to redress the economic
imbalance of the apartheid era in which blacks were effectively
excluded from the boardroom.


But while the emergence of leading black businessmen was
initially widely hailed, complaints have grown steadily amid
accusations that those who have benefited most have done so
thanks to their ANC links.


"Little has changed. There is still extremely low levels of black
participation in the mainstream economy," said Ibrahim Fakir, a
researcher with the Johannesburg-based Centre for Policy Studies.


"Insufficient measures have been taken to significantly increase
and expand black participation. And where proper measures have
been in place, they have served to benefit a tiny elite rather
than the general populous."


In an interview this week with the Financial Times, Manuel said
that "there will have to be a review" of BEE as he cited various
abuses of the system.


In particular, Manuel said too many companies had followed only
the letter, and not the spirit of the programme by recruiting
black managers and board members only as token gestures.


Fakir said too much emphasis had been placed on wealth creation
at the expense of expanding the boardroom base.


"The overall aim of the BEE has been to deracialise business
ownership and control instead of aiming to make it easier for
black people to gain access to capital for business development.


"It should not be about contracting wealth but creating
opportunities through proper regulations."


Among the most trenchant of critics has been the anti-apartheid
campaigner and Nobel peace prize winner Desmond Tutu who has said
BEE "seemed to be benefiting a small recycled elite."


Even President Thabo Mbeki, seen as the godfather of BEE,
admitted in his state of the nation address this year the number
of black managers in companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange was "woefully low."


According to Dirk Hermann, of the Solidarity trade union,
Manuel's criticism was long overdue.


"We only see the enrichment of an elite few, and those who have
connections with the ANC," Hermann told AFP.


"There is not enough done to train the previously disadvantaged
to be independent and start their own business. Instead,
unemployment is still high and people still don't have access to
capital. It is a serious problem."


The main opposition Democratic Alliance, which has been heavily
critical of BEE, said it would support a review of the policy.


"A review of BEE would be an excellent opportunity to ... see
whether it has succeeded in effecting the broad-based empowerment
of the disenfranchised, or whether it has merely offered a few
politically connected individuals the opportunity to enrich
themselves," said DA lawmaker Pierre Rabie.


A recent study of JSE-listed companies showed that of a total of
697 directors, 66 percent are white and only 28 percent were
black.


Some experts however say it is important to look beyond the
headline figures before concluding BEE had been a flop.


Lerato Ratsoma, marketing manager of the BEE ratings agency
Empowerdex, said areas such as skills development and employment
opportunies were also key.


"There is no need to review the whole of BEE. The problem is that
people's focus is often on the ownership and management," Ratsoma
told The Star newspaper.

