

The environmental group Greenpeace called for urgent action on
Wednesday to prevent illegal logging in the rainforests of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, accusing international
companies there of "causing social chaos and wreaking
environmental havoc."


In a report which accused the World Bank of failing to stem the
problem of illegal logging, Greenpeace said over 15 million
hectares (37 million acres) of rainforest had been granted to the
logging industry since a moratorium was agreed by the country's
government in May 2002.


The group's report, "Carving up the Congo," also accused
international logging companies of deception and intimidation to
get timber.


In exchange for timber worth hundreds of thousands of dollars,
logging companies are giving communities gifts such as bags of
salt and crates of beer worth less than 100 dollars and promising
to build schools and hospitals.


"These promises are rarely fulfilled and there are reports that
intimidation tactics are used against people who try to protest,"
Greenpeace said.


"In a context of corruption and poor governance in the DRC, the
World Bank's attempts to reform the forestry sector are currently
failing to control the expansion of logging," it added.


Of the 60 million people in the DRC about 40 million depend upon
the rainforests to provide essential food, medicine and other
non-timber products along with energy and building materials.


And the forest is criticial for the survival of wildlife
including gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos, the report said.


Meanwhile, the World Bank has acknowledged that over the last
three years not a single penny paid in taxes by logging companies
has reached local communities to provide essential services like
schools and hospitals.


"This leaves these people not only without the forest that
provided their food, shelter and medicine, but without the
benefits they had been promised, Greenpeace said.


The environmental group also said that it feared a review of
logging authorisations, initiated by the World Bank, would end up
validating illegal permits granted to some companies.


"Greenpeace has investigated the actions of most of the major
logging companies whose contracts have been submitted to the
legal review.


"Our findings expose serious lapses of governance, a massive lack
of institutional capacity to control the forestry sector,
widespread illegalities and social conflicts, as well as clashes
with established conservation initiatives," it said.


Greenpeace said that, according to a review of the 156 contracts,
107 were signed after the May 2002 moratorium.


And nearly half of the 156 titles are in intact forest landscapes
which are critical for carbon storage and very significant for
wildlife protection.


Because comprehensive maps are not publicly available, the
location of 13 contracts covering 1.7 million hectares (4.2
million acres)  -- an area the size of Kuwait -- cannot be
determined, it said.


The Democratic Republic of Congo has the second-largest primal
tropical forest in the world with 86 million hectares (212
million acres) of which 60 million (148 million) are potentially
exploitable for logging.

