

At least 17 people were killed and scores injured in a series of
car bombs that rocked the Algerian capital on Wednesday,
including one that targeted the government headquarters.


The civil defence department said in a statement that the blast
outside the seat of government left nine people dead and 32
wounded, while shortly afterwards eight people were killed and 50
injured near a police station.


Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhamed condemned the attacks as
"criminal and cowardly."


The first blast shook several buildings and sent shattered glass
flying over a distance of 200 to 300 meters (yards), witnesses
said.


Ambulances and police cars immediately rushed to the multi-storey
building, which also houses several ministries.


A thick cloud of smoke rose from the site of the blast, which was
heard across the city.


Thousands of passersby congregated on the vast steps of the
building, as uniformed and plainclothes police attempted to
contain the crowd.


Minutes later, witnesses said three car bombs went off near a
police station in Bab Ezzouar, an eastern suburb of Algiers, near
the international airport.


The explosions badly damaged the police station and destroyed an
electricity sub-station.


There was no immediate claim of responsibility for any of the
attacks, which came five days after nine Algerian soldiers and at
least six Islamist militants were killed after a military convoy
was ambushed in a forested area west of Algiers.


The Algerian army has been involved in an offensive in the
eastern region of Kabylie against an Islamist militant group that
has claimed responsibility for a series of deadly attacks in
Algeria and is also active in other countries, notably Tunisia.


The Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) is an Al-
Qaeda-linked north African group feared by France as its main
terrorist threat.


In neighbouring Morocco, security forces on Wednesday hunted 10
possible suicide bombers in Casablanca, a day after three
suspected militants blew themselves up as they were being chased.


All were wanted in connection with a March 11 bomb that exploded
in a Casablanca Internet cafe.


In that attack, the bomber, Abdelfettah Raydi, died and his
suspected accomplice and three customers were injured.

