

Bangladesh's military-backed government has severely restricted
the freedom of the former prime minister, an aide said on
Wednesday, taking a nationwide crackdown to the top of the
political class.


The move against Khaleda Zia, who stood aside in October to allow
elections to take place, comes with the South Asian nation under
emergency rule with a military-backed administration since
parliamentary polls slated for January were cancelled following
months of political turmoil.


"The intelligence department sent the order to the guards
(Tuesday) at Zia's house that only four people could meet her
from now on," said Zia's acting secretary, asking not to be
named.


"They are: her two brothers, a personal physician and an ex-
member of parliament," he told AFP.


The secretary said he did not know if Zia's movements had also
been restricted, but added that she was not venturing out for the
time being.


The new government has promised to root out corruption and carry
out sweeping political reforms before announcing an election
date.


The meeting ban was imposed just hours after Zia warned that
Bangladesh was at a "crossroads" and called for "unity."


Zia, who lives in Dhaka's military cantonment, issued a statement
late Tuesday saying: "Our beloved motherland has come to a
crossroads."


"As a nation, each decision at this moment is very important,
because I firmly believe our present decisions will determine
whether we will open a new chapter in our immense potential or
plunge into darkness.


"I urge all who are running the government to take every decision
with wisdom and vision," she said, calling on the government not
to be "biased" and "vindictive".


"National security and sovereignty has become a more significant
issue surpassing individual, family, party, corruption and good
governance matters."


Zia also urged the government to include politicians in the
reform programmes, and not consider them "opponents".


The government has already curbed freedom of speech, banned
politics and vowed to clean up the country.


At least 50 top politicians have been arrested, including Zia's
once influential son Tareque Rahman.


Zia's statement was first reported by local news agency UNB,
which later withdrew it on the advice of the official Press
Information Department and the armed forces. Newspapers were also
told not to carry the report.


On Monday, the Bangladeshi chief executive officer of a
Malaysian-owned company filed an extortion case against the
leader of the opposition, Sheikh Hasina Wajed.


Hasina will cut short her visit in the United States and return
home on April 14 to face the charges, her press secretary, Abul
Kalam Azad, told AFP.


The allegations surfaced shortly after Hasina hit out against
plans to delay elections for 18 months.


An influential member of the interim cabinet said the army-led
anti-graft national taskforce would likely investigate the case
against Hasina.


"It's an old case. We will investigate the case. We will probably
tell the national taskforce to carry out the investigation,"
retired major general M. A. Matin told reporters.


The National Taskforce led by a serving Bangladesh army major
general was set up last month to assist the government.


Matin, who is minister of commerce and shipping, also said he was
not aware of any government hand behind the case against Hasina.


Hasina could stay in exile abroad and later be joined by Zia,
several newspapers said on Tuesday and Wednesday.


Bengali daily Jugantor reported that Zia would leave the country
for Saudi Arabia by April 17.


The minister, however, ruled out any government plan to send the
veteran party leaders into exile.


"No, I don't think the government has any such plan," he said.

