

The US government is waging a "covert war" against the pro-
Iranian Hezbollah by arming militias in Lebanon opposed to the
guerrilla group, a Hezbollah leader said in comments published
Wednesday.


In an interview with Britain's Guardian daily from a safe house
in southern Beirut, Sheikh Naim Qasim, Hezbollah's deputy
secretary general, also did not rule out a new conflict between
his Shiite Muslim guerrilla group and Israel.


US Vice President "Dick Cheney has given orders for a covert war
against Hezbollah," Sheikh Qasim was quoted as saying. "There is
now an American programme that is using Lebanon to further its
goals in the region."


The newspaper cited published reports saying US intelligence
agencies are authorised to provide "non-lethal" funding to anti-
Hezbollah groups in Lebanon and to activists who support the
western-backed government of Fouad Siniora.


However, Sheikh Qassim accused Seniora's government of going
further and arming groups across Lebanon.


"This happens with the knowledge of the prime minister and is
facilitated by the security forces under his command," Sheikh
Qasim was quoted as saying.


The Guardian said the US administration had earmarked 60 million
dollars to bolster the Lebanese interior ministry's internal
security force, which Sheikh Qassim described as increasingly
biased against Hezbollah.


"The internal security forces have not succeeded in playing a
balanced role... The sectarian issue is very delicate when it
comes to the security services," he said.


Sheikh Qasim charged that Washington had thwarted attempts by the
Lebanese government and the Hezbollah-led opposition to reach a
compromise over a long political crisis about participation in
government.


"America is forcing the government forces to prolong this crisis,
because they want a price for it," he charged. "They want to tie
Lebanon into negotiations that benefit Israel and their plan for
a new Middle East."


Sheikh Qasim said Hezbollah did not rule out a new confrontation
with Israel this summer like the 34-day war last July and August
that left more than 1,000 people dead.


"We are prepared for the possibility of another adventure or the
demand of American policy that might push the IDF (Israeli
Defence Force) in that direction," he said.

