

Indonesian police Wednesday named two new suspects in the case of
human rights activist Munir Said Thalib, who was murdered on a
Garuda flight.


Police chief Sutanto told reporters two Garuda Indonesia
executives were under investigation in connection with the case
of Munir, whose drink was laced with arsenic on the September
2004 flight from Singapore to Amsterdam.


Sutanto said the two, identified only by their initials, IS and
R, were being investigated over the falsification of documents
for a Garuda pilot whose conviction for the Munir's murder was
overturned.


Munir, who was 38 when he died, had made many powerful enemies
through his work during and after the rule of dictator Suharto,
which ended in May 1998.


"There may be other names to be listed as suspects in the case in
addition to the two names announced by the police chief on
Tuesday," said national police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto.


Rights activists, who have accused the government and the police
of dragging their feet in investigating the case because
intelligence officers were believed to be behind the murder,
protested Wednesday's announcement.


"What exactly are the developments that the police have made? Are
the two (new) suspects (to be tried) for murder or falsifying
documents?" said activist Usman Hamid from Kontras, the
organisation Munir represented.


"If that is the only (new suspects) that the police can come up
with, then their work the past two years have been in vain," said
Munir's widow, Suciwati.


The Supreme Court quashed Garuda Indonesia pilot Pollycarpus
Priyanto's 14-year conviction in the case and he was instead
handed a two-year jail term for falsifying a document.


He was released from prison in December after receiving three
months' remission.


The team appointed to probe the murder in December 2004 has
already completed an unpublished report which alleged Priyanto
had links to Indonesia's powerful national intelligence agency.


On March 28, Philips Alston, a United Nation special rapporteur
on extrajudicial killings, filed a report on the Munir case to
the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.


Three senior intelligence officers named in his report had
refused to be interviewed by the fact-finding team and failed to
provide documents needed for further investigation.

