

French right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy on
Wednesday denied a newspaper report that he had agreed to shield
President Jacques Chirac from a corruption probe in exchange for
his backing.


"It's grotesque, it's hurtful and it's untrue," Sarkozy said
after Le Canard Enchaine satirical weekly published the report,
quoting sources close to Chirac.


"I deny it in the firmest and fullest terms," said Sarkozy during
a campaign swing through the Paris suburb of Villepinte.


The weekly reported that "in exchange for Chirac's support for
his candidacy, Sarkozy made a commitment, if he wins, to avoid
any judicial backlash for Chirac."


Chirac's office also denied the report, with an official saying:
"These allegations, which are absolutely baseless, do not warrant
a response."


Rather than a specific amnesty for corruption, Sarkozy would
introduce a provision as part of a new anti-crime bill that would
set a 10-year limit on the time a judge has to close a case, the
weekly said.


That measure would close the book on three corruption cases that
date back more than 10 years, when Chirac was mayor of Paris from
1977 to 1995, according to Le Canard Enchaine.


Two cases deal with the illegal use of Paris city funds to pay
staff and sympathisers of Chirac's Rally for the Republic (RPR)
party, the predecessor of the governing Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP).


Former prime minister Alain Juppe was convicted January 2004 for
his role in that scheme, receiving a suspended jail sentence and
a year-long ban on holding public office.


A third case surrounds a Paris printing firm which is suspected
of rigging public tender contracts and of funding the RPR via the
mayor's office.


Last month justice officials said Chirac, 74, would be questioned
after he leaves office in May by a judge looking into the illegal
party-funding scheme, although no date had been set.


Chirac's immunity from questioning by magistrates ends a month
after he steps down on May 16.


Chirac gave his official endorsement to Sarkozy's bid for the
presidency last month, shortly after announcing that he would be
stepping down after 12 years in office and not seek a third term.


Once close allies, the two men fell out after Sarkozy backed a
rival candidate in the 1995 presidential election.


Sarkozy, 52, went on to wrest control of the governing UMP from
Chirac, becoming its president in 2004.


Sarkozy is currently the favourite to win the presidential
election, taking place in two rounds on April 22 and May 6.

