

Moroccan security forces on Wednesday hunted 10 possible suicide
bombers in Casablanca, a day after three suspected militants blew
themselves as they were being chased.


"We are searching in Casablanca for about 10 extremely dangerous
terrorists, as they are ready like those yesterday to blow
themselves up," a police source said.


On Tuesday, three suicide bombers blew themselves up and a fourth
was shot dead as police sought suspects from a March 11 bomb
explosion in an Internet cafe.


The first confrontation occurred when police surrounded a house
before dawn Tuesday in the el Fida district of the city.


One suspect came out of the house carrying a sword and wearing an
explosives belt. He was shot dead by the police.


According to the police version, a second suspect came out onto
the balcony of the house and seeing that he was surrounded, blew
himself up.


The same afternoon, a police inspector died after a third man
blew himself up in the same district. Two other police officers
and a child were also hurt, according to an AFP journalist.


In the final attack Tuesday, five people were wounded including
two police officers as a man blew himself up in the main
thoroughfare of the Hay al Farah district.


The bomber headed towards a group of police officers before
detonating his charge, said a police source.


A police statement identified the man they had shot dead in the
morning as Mohamed Mentala, who is wanted in connection with the
May 2003 bombings in Casablanca, the worst in Morocco's history,
which killed 45 people including 12 suicide bombers and injured
dozens.


All four of those who died Tuesday were wanted in connection with
the March 11 bomb that exploded in a Casablanca Internet cafe,
said police.


In that attack, the bomber, Abdelfettah Raydi, died and his
suspected accomplice and three customers were injured. Thirty-one
people have already been arrested in the course of that
investigation.


Investigators believe that the Internet cafe was not the intended
target of the March attack, but was simply where some of the
attackers met to maintain contact online.


Investigators have ruled out that the men had links with foreign
groups.


"A terrorist group is being formed and funded by Moroccans with
the aim of carrying out bombings at Casablanca port and several
police stations," a judicial source said.


Investigators say they do not believe the suicide bombers have
links with foreign groups.


"A terrorist group is being formed and funded by Moroccans with
the aim of carrying out bombings at Casablanca port and several
police stations," the judicial source added.


But Mohamed Darif, a specialist on Islamism in Morocco, told AFP:
"It is difficult to imagine that this group did not have any
foreign links.


"On the contrary, it seems that they apply the order given by
Ayman al Zawahri, the number two in Al-Qaeda, to blow yourself up
rather than fall into the hands of the police," he added.


Al-Qaeda recently announced that it had set up a cell in north
Africa.

