

A Hong Kong hospital released the wrong body to an unsuspecting
bereaved family who had it cremated, health and hospital
officials revealed late Wednesday.


The Prince of Wales Hospital said the blunder happened on March
29 when its mortuary attendant released the body of an 88-year-
old man to the family of a 77 -year-old patient who had also
died.


The body of the 88-year-old man was then sent to be cremated.


The incident came to light Wednesday when the family of the 88
-year-old man came to collect the body and discovered it had
already been wrongly released.


The hospital said it had "expressed a deepest apology" to both
families involved and an investigation was now underway into the
blunder. It is unclear whether the original family has since been
given the right body.


It is the second such mix-up in just over 12 months.


An unnamed public morgue wrongly released the body of a 90-year-
old man to another family that then had it cremated in March last
year.


On Wednesday, the Prince of Wales hospital said initial findings
into its incident showed that a mortuary attendant failed to
fully comply with procedures to verify information on the
identification tag of the body before releasing it.


The staff member has now been temporarily suspended from duty, it
said.


The government Health, Welfare and Food Bureau said it had also
ordered the Hospital Authority (HA) to conduct an investigation
into the mix-up.


"We have asked the HA to submit a detailed report to the bureau
in a month's time," a spokesman for the department said.


He said the authority will submit the report with recommendations
and remedial measures to prevent recurrence of similar incidents.


"We will ensure the hospital management is taking whatever
necessary follow-up measures to facilitate and assist the family
members," HA chief executive Shane Solomon said in a statement.


However he added that stringent guidelines and procedures were
already in place for hospital staff to follow.


In another incident, in July 2005, staff at a Hong Kong public
mortuary were accused of mishandling corpses due to a lack of
space. Photographs published by local media showed bodies piled
on top of each other.


Staff said that conditions were so cramped that they were
sometimes forced to walk over the corpses. This sparked an outcry
from concerned families.


The mix-up in March last year came to light after the family of
the 90-year-old man, Wong Fong-ho, went to collect his body to
prepare for his funeral but was instead given the body of a 57
-year-old man.

