

At least four civilians were killed Wednesday in renewed clashes
in the Somali capital between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
fighters that a shattered a ceasefire, residents said.


There was sporadic gunfire and heavy mortar shells around a
stadium in southern Mogadishu, where the two sides recently
fought the worst battles seen in the Somali capital in 15 years,
leaving as many as 1,000 dead.


"The fighting is going on in our neighbourhood and around four
people have been killed, one of them is a young boy. They were
civilians killed stray bullets," said Gure Ahmed Olow, a resident
of Sagar district in northern Mogadishu.


Another resident, Sahal Mohamed, said: "We cannot go outside to
check on the casualities because stray bullets are flying all
over. I have seen three wounded civilians, two of them are from
the same family and the third one is a neighbour".


Residents saw Ethiopian and Somali troops reinforcing in Sagar
area, where the rival sides also fired heavy artillery.


The new fighting, which erupted overnight shattered a week-old
ceasefire announced by elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye
clan after talks with Ethiopian military commanders.


The resumption of clashes came hours after the Ethiopian army
refused to meet Hawiye elders for routine peace negotiations
unless insurgent commanders were present.


"We are very worried and it is clear that the shaky ceasefire has
broken because heavy fighting started overnight," said Abdulkadir
Mohamed, a resident in Towfiq in south Mogadishu.


"I was sleeping when heavy gunfire broke out. Everyone woke up
and fled from the area because stray bullets were hitting
everywhere," he added.


Mohamed Hussein Wehliye, a resident near the stadium area, said:
"We ask the warring sides to stop the fighting because it will
increase the casualties and only bring damage."


Last month's heavy fighting erupted when Ethiopian forces
launched a crackdown on suspected insurgents in the Somali
capital.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the
ousting of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a
power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


Tensions have risen again since Ethiopian forces helped the UN-
backed transitional government to oust Islamists from Mogadishu
at the start of the year. The Islamists have since vowed a
guerrilla war against the Ethiopians.


The Islamist chief Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed said Monday that
Ethiopia wanted to "wipe Somalia off the world map" and that the
presence of its troops in the lawless nation had heightened the
Somali sense of nationalism.


Ethiopia's arch-foe Eritrea, which has rejected accusations of
fanning the Somalia conflict has called for an immediate pullout
of foreign troops, including 1,500 African Union peacekeepers
from Uganda, saying their presence was worsening the situation.

