

World oil prices rose on Wednesday as the market awaited US
inventories data that was expected to show further falls in
gasoline stocks ahead of the peak demand season for motor fuel,
analysts said.


Traders also kept a keen eye on major crude producer Iran, which
remains in the international spotlight over its disputed nuclear
energy ambitions.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 36
cents to 67.78 dollars per barrel in London electronic trading on
Wednesday.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained six cents to 61.95 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


The US Department of Energy was set Wednesday to publish its
latest weekly update on oil inventories in the United States.


"Crude futures were a little higher this morning, ahead of US
crude inventories data to be released later on today, with an
expected decline in gasoline stocks ahead of the traditionally
busy summer driving season," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


"However, US Energy Secretary Sam Bodman said yesterday (Tuesday)
that US gasoline supplies seem to be sufficient to sustain
demand."


Gasoline or petrol stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market
ahead of the so-called US driving season that starts next month
and sees many Americans hit the roads for their holidays.


London analysts predict that US gasoline reserves will have
fallen by 1.4 million barrels in the week ending April 6.


Stockpiles of US motor oil have fallen for the past eight weeks,
and have shed some 22 million barrels since the start of
February.


Market expectations are that US crude oil reserves will have
increased by 1.7 million barrels last week.


Since Monday, New York crude has traded around five dollars
beneath London Brent crude owing to oversupply in the central
United States, according to industry experts.


However, American refineries are unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States.


Aside from US stockpiles, traders tracked the newsflow on Iran.


The European Union on Tuesday had urged Tehran not to defy the
United Nations, increasing international diplomatic pressure on
Tehran after its claim that it could enrich uranium on an
industrial scale.


Uranium enrichment is the key sticking point in the row between
Iran and the West because the process can also make the fissile
core for an atomic bomb. The western powers accuse Tehran of
seeking to make nuclear arms while Tehran insists it is for power
generation only.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest crude exporter, and analysts
fear further sanctions in the ongoing dispute over its nuclear
programme could disrupt oil exports.

