

Bangladesh's main opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed has been
charged with the murder of four people during political violence
which racked the nation's capital last October, police said
Wednesday.


Deputy commissioner Shahidul Haq Bhuiyan told AFP the case
against Hasina, who is on holiday in the United States, would be
heard April 22.


"Detective branch police submitted the charge-sheet of the case
to a Dhaka court today after carrying out investigations and
taking evidence," said Bhuiyan.


The announcement came on the day Bangladesh's military-backed
government severely curtailed the freedom of former prime
minister Khaleda Zia, taking a nationwide crackdown to the top of
the political class.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since parliamentary
polls slated for January were cancelled following months of
political turmoil over allegations of poll rigging.


The murder case against Hasina related to four people who were
beaten to death on October 28 and followed a complaint by the
Jamaat Islami party.


The Jamaat Islami, Bangladesh's biggest Islamic party, was part
of Zia's four- party coalition government that handed over power
last October to a caretaker government as part of constitutional
preparations for the elections.


"In all a total of 46 people have been charged in the murder case
filed by Jamaat Islami party," the deputy police commissioner
added.


He gave no details of the exact role Hasina is accused of playing
in the murders.


There has been widespread media speculation that the government
is seeking to force both Hasina and Zia into political exile, but
this has been denied by the administration.


At least 35 people were killed in the unrest between October 28
and January 11, when the country's president Iajuddin Ahmed
imposed emergency rule.


The murder charge comes after Hasina on Monday was accused of
extortion of 30 million taka (434,000 dollars) by a Bangladeshi
chief of a Malaysian-owned company.


There was no immediate reaction available from Hasina.


Before the murder charge was laid against Hasina, her press
secretary had said she planned to cut short her visit to the
United States and return home on April 14 to fight the extortion
allegations.


Police are still investigating the extortion allegations and have
not laid formal charges against her.


Last weekend, Hasina attacked the government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months.

