

The US government is waging a "covert war" against the pro-
Iranian Hezbollah by arming militias in Lebanon opposed to the
guerrilla group, a Hezbollah leader said in comments published on
Wednesday.


In an interview with Britain's Guardian daily from a safe house
in southern Beirut, Sheikh Naim Qassim, Hezbollah's deputy
secretary general, also did not rule out a new conflict between
his Shiite Muslim guerrilla group and Israel.


US Vice President "Dick Cheney has given orders for a covert war
against Hezbollah," Sheikh Qassim was quoted as saying. "There is
now an American programme that is using Lebanon to further its
goals in the region."


The newspaper cited published reports saying US intelligence
agencies are authorised to provide "non-lethal" funding to anti-
Hezbollah groups in Lebanon and to activists who support the
Western-backed government of Fuad Siniora.


However, Qassim accused Prime Minister Siniora's government of
going further and arming groups across Lebanon.


"This happens with the knowledge of the prime minister and is
facilitated by the security forces under his command," Sheikh
Qassim was quoted as saying.


In Beirut, a senior Lebanese government source denied the charge.
"These accusations are mere fabrications, they are false and
baseless," the source said, declining to be identified.


The Guardian said the US administration had earmarked 60 million
dollars to bolster the Lebanese interior ministry's internal
security force, which Qassim described as increasingly biased
against Hezbollah.


"The internal security forces have not succeeded in playing a
balanced role... The sectarian issue is very delicate when it
comes to the security services," he warned.


Qassim charged that Washington had thwarted attempts by the
Lebanese government and the Hezbollah-led opposition to reach a
compromise over a long political crisis about participation in
government.


"America is forcing the government forces to prolong this crisis,
because they want a price for it," he charged. "They want to tie
Lebanon into negotiations that benefit Israel and their plan for
a new Middle East."


Qassim said Hezbollah did not rule out a new confrontation with
Israel this summer like the 34-day war last July and August that
left more than 1,200 people dead.


"We are prepared for the possibility of another adventure or the
demand of American policy that might push the IDF (Israeli army)
in that direction," he said.

