

Watchmakers at the annual 'Baselworld' showcase in Switzerland
said Wednesday that they were looking forward to sparkling times,
buoyed by booming luxury watch sales and the growing number of
wealthy Chinese consumers.


"There has never been so much money circulating throughout the
world," said Jacques Duchene, chairman of the exhibitors
committee at the world watch and jewellery fair, which opens on
Thursday.


"Swiss brands have never been in such a healthy state, especially
the big luxury brands," he told journalists.


Luxury watches made from precious metals and gems now account for
80 percent of Swiss watch sales by value, which nearly doubled in
the space of a decade to 13.7 billion Swiss francs (11.2 billion
US dollars or 8.3 billion euros) in 2006, according to the Swiss
watchmaking federation.


"The start to the year is such that we should be in the double
digits again," said Francois Thiebaud, head of the Swiss
exhibitors and chief executive of Tissot watches.


Swiss watch exports grew by 12.1 percent in February compared to
the same month last year, he added.


Asia was the biggest market, accounting for 42.7 percent of Swiss
watch exports last year.


Even Hong Kong, once a byword for the cheap watch, is trying to
respond to the growing demand for luxury in fast growing mainland
China.


"We are trying to move upmarket. Hong Kong companies are focusing
more on quality, design and production speed," said Ralph Chow of
Hong Kong's Trade Development Council.


"We are targeting more than 200 million middle class consumers in
China."


"Beyond the middle class there are a lot of US dollar
millionaires in China --- as a rough estimate there are 300,000
of them," he added.


Hong Kong's total watch exports reached 6.0 billion dollars (4.4
billion euros) in 2006, an increase of 2.0 percent, while
jewellery exports increased by 14 percent to 3.7 billion dollars
(2.7 billion euros).


The Baselworld trade fair until April 19 brings together 2,109
exhibitors from 45 countries, about two thirds of them from
Europe. Hong Kong has the largest single foreign pavilion at the
event, with 326 companies present.

