

Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Wednesday he will
freeze his salary for five years and will "donate" the increase
that boosted his annual income to more than two million US
dollars.


His decision comes amid a furore over the hike in the city-state
which faces a widening income gap.


"I will hold my own salary at its present level for five years,"
the prime minister said in parliament.


Lee's salary was 1.62 million US dollars last year.


"The government will pay me my full pay because that is how the
system must work but for five years I will donate the increase in
my salary from this and subsequent revisions," he said.


The prime minister's salary increase was among pay rises for
civil servants announced on Monday.


Lee told parliament he wanted "to make quite clear why I am doing
this and to give me the moral standing to defend this policy to
Singaporeans."


Lee's revised salary would be five times more than the 400,000 US
dollars paid to US President George W. Bush and more than eight
times that of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who receives
240,000 US dollars a year.


The increase has been among the most passionately debated issues
in recent years, and many Singaporeans -- usually reserved --
were untypically blunt in their reactions.


Salary hikes were also given to other cabinet ministers and
senior civil servants, but Lee suggested ministers need not
follow his lead in donating the increase.


"What individual ministers do... is up to them," he said. "It
should not be a public ostentatious display, but a private matter
for them to decide at their own discretion."


Under a benchmark pegged to top private sector salaries,
Singapore ministers are supposed to be paid 2.2 million Singapore
dollars a year. However, they are actually getting 1.2 million
dollars, or 55 percent less.


To close the gap, Teo Chee Hean, minister in charge of the civil
service, said the ministers' salaries will be raised to 1.6
million now and to 1.69 million dollars by the end of this year.
They will rise further to 1.9 million by the end of 2008.


Teo repeated the government's philosophy of paying competitive
rates in order to "facilitate the recruitment and retention of
the quality of talent we need for the government and public
sector."


Lee is the son of Singapore founding father Lee Kuan Yew, and
took over as prime minister from Goh Chok Tong in 2004.


In a country where political rallies are banned without a permit
and the media is closely linked with the government, many of the
comments against the pay rise were posted on the Internet.


"This is plain injustice," said one identified as Zac Neo, who
was among more than 850 people to sign an online petition against
the increase.

