

Pakistan Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz urged the United States
Wednesday not to belittle Islamabad's anti-terror efforts or to
introduce legislation linking aid to its success against
militants.


Aziz's remarks come against a backdrop of repeated concerns
expressed by US and NATO officials about Taliban militants
regrouping in Pakistan's border regions to launch attacks in
neighbouring Afghanistan.


Democrats in the US Congress in March introduced legislation that
would make aid to Pakistan conditional on its counter-insurgency
performance. US President George W. Bush has opposed the move.


"Given the sacrifices that Pakistan has made in the war on
terror, any legislation critical of the country will invoke a
negative public reaction and prove to be counter-productive,"
Aziz told a defence symposium organised by the Pakistani and US
militaries.


Aziz said Pakistan had done "more than any other country" against
terrorism since abandoning its support for Afghanistan's Taliban
regime after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.


Pakistan has nearly 90,000 troops along the Afghan frontier, he
said, adding that both he and President Pervez Musharraf had
survived Islamist suicide bombings.


"As we move ahead in jointly addressing the challenge of
terrorism, the importance of a seamless partnership between
Pakistan and United States has become critical," Aziz said.


"To ensure and preserve this cooperation, it is necessary for
both of us to prevent any action that can impact this
relationship," he added.


Pakistan has faced criticism after the government signed peace
pacts with Islamist tribes along the Afghan border in 2005 and
2006. It says recent battles between tribesmen and foreign Al-
Qaeda militants show the deals work.


US Democrats have also piled pressure on military ruler Musharraf
over his removal of Pakistan's chief justice on March 9, a move
which has sparked angry protests.


Several senior senate Democrats wrote to Musharraf in March
asking him to ensure that upcoming polls were open and free with
the participation of the political parties of exiled ex-premiers
Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif.

