

India's largest real estate developer DLF said it signed a 20
billion dollar deal Monday with Al Nakheel of the United Arab
Emirates to build two townships in India.


The companies will initially invest five billion dollars each in
the next three years to build complete townships at unspecified
locations in India, according to a company executive with DLF who
declined to be named pending a formal announcement later in the
day.


"We have signed a 50:50 joint venture with Al Nakheel to develop
integrated townships with an investment of 20 billion dollars,"
the executive said.


The executive, speaking on the sidelines of meeting by Indian
business leaders with UAE Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin
Rashed al-Maktoum in New Delhi, said the townships would be full-
sized cities.


Both townships would cover 40,000 acres (16,200 hectares) of
land, of which 70 percent has already been bought, he said,
adding that a press conference to formally announce the deal
would be held at 4.00 pm (1030 GMT).


Separately, India's Hinduja Group, majority-owned by the London-
based Hinduja brothers, said it signed a 12-billion dollar deal
with Nakheel to develop property in Dubai.


In another agreement, the Hindujas signed a joint venture with
UAE's real estate group Limitless to develop real estate for
medical facilities with an initial investment of one billion
dollars.


"Half a dozen lands have already been acquired for this project,"
group chairman A.P Hinduja told AFP.


In January, DLF said it had filed a new and downsized initial
share sale offer with the market regulator almost six months
after investors balked at its plan to raise three billion dollars
for its ambitious expansion plans.


DLF said it planned to raise 100 billion rupees (2.2 billion
dollars) via an initial public offer sometime in 2007, down from
the 130 billion rupees of shares it proposed to sell in August
2006.


The August share sale plan was withdrawn after major investment
banks said the company's plans were unrealistic. New Delhi-based
DLF now plans to sell 10.1 percent of the firm, or 175 million
shares, to fund the construction of hotels and free-trade zones.

