

An antioxidant found in blueberries and grapes may offer
protection against colon cancer, according to a new study that
suggests the humble berry should be added to the list of cancer-
fighting superfoods.


In a small study on rats, the compound appeared to afford the
animals a measure of protection against this type of malignancy.


All 18 rats were given a compound to induce colon cancer in a
manner similar to human colon cancer development.


Nine of the rodents were then placed on a balanced diet, while
the remainder was given the same diet with a supplement of the
berry antioxidant pterostilbene.


At the end of eight weeks, the rats on pterostilbene had 57
percent fewer pre- cancerous lesions in their colon in comparison
to the control group.


The compound also reduced colonic cell proliferation and
inhibited certain genes involved in inflammation, both of which
are considered colon cancer risk factors, the researchers
reported in a paper published Sunday at the annual meeting of the
American Chemical Society in Chicago.


"This study underscores the need to include more berries in the
diet, especially blueberries," said Bandaru Reddy, a professor in
the department of Chemical Biology at Rutgers University in New
Jersey.


Further studies are needed to establish exactly what the compound
does, but researchers suspect that its cholesterol-lowering
action may be key given the link between colon cancer and the
high level of saturated fats and calories in Western diets.


Separately, researchers at Ohio State University said they had
begun clinical trials on humans to see if blueberries could
prevent the development of esophageal and colon cancer.


In experiments on rats whose diet was five to 10 percent berries,
the rats had a 60 percent reduction of tumours of the esophagus
and up to an 80 percent reduction in colon tumours.


A third study suggested that chemicals found in grape seed
extract may protect against skin cancer by inhibiting the
suppression of the immune system caused by ultraviolet light
exposure, researchers at the University of Alabama said.


The finding was based on test-tube experiments with mice cells.


On a related note, Californian researchers reported that organic
produce does offer greater health benefits.


In a head-to-head comparison of organically grown kiwis, versus
traditionally grown kiwis, the organic fruit had significantly
increased levels of polyphenols, a higher overall antioxidant
level and higher levels of Vitamin C.


Both sets of kiwis were grown next to each other on the same farm
at the same time in the same environmental conditions, the
University of California, Davis researchers said.

