

Fourteen Tunisians have been sentenced to between four and 10
years in prison for "belonging to a terrorist organisation,"
legal sources said on Monday.


Three of the defendants, Ghaith Ghazouani, 23, Mahar Bezyouch,
24, and Mohammed Amine Aoun, 22, were sentenced to 10-year prison
terms for having ties to Algeria's Salafist Group for Preaching
and Combat (GSPC), which announced in September it was linking up
with Al-Qaeda.


Three other defendants were sentenced to eight years behind bars
and the eight others received four-year sentences, one of the
defence lawyers, Samir Ben Amor, told AFP.


A judicial source confirmed the verdict handed down in a Tunis
criminal court over the weekend, adding that four other people
had been sentenced in absentia to 24 years in jail.


Convicted under Tunisia's anti-terror legislation, the
defendants, aged 20 to 25, had been charged with belonging to a
terrorist organisation, recruiting for jihad or holy war,
fundraising, planning terrorist attacks and with weapons
training.


Seven of them were arrested in Algeria before being handed over
to Tunisian authorities in April 2005, while the others were
accused of planning to travel to Algeria to prepare for jihad,
according to the charges.


During the trial, which began on February 17, all 14 denied the
'terrorism' charges, but some admitted to going to Algeria for
military training aimed at preparing them to fight with the
insurgency in Iraq.


Questioned by judge Tarak Braham in the presence of reporters,
Ghazouani denied belonging to the GSPC and any plans of violence,
claiming instead that he had gone to Algeria in an attempt to
travel on to Europe.


The defence had called for the case to be dismissed due to a lack
of evidence and to procedural violations, with some lawyers
demanding medical reports to show that their clients had been
tortured.


One defence lawyer, Raouf Ayadi, attacked what he called "a wave
of political trials carried out under the pretext of a
preventative war against terrorism imposed on the world by the
United States of America."


According to Ben Amor, about 1,000 Tunisians have been arrested
on charges of violating the country's anti-terror law since it
was adopted in 2003 amid harsh criticism by human rights
advocates.


In a crackdown in late December and early January, Tunisian
authorities admitted that 15 people had been arrested and 14
people had been killed, including two members of the security
services, following a gun battle with suspected members of a
"Salafist terror group".


The Tunisian human rights league meanwhile claimed that "several
dozen" people had been arrested, including some young worshippers
as they came out of mosques.

