

South Korea on Monday announced a plan to block 180 foreign
pornographic websites after sex video clips were posted on local
Internet portals.


The move, to be completed by late May, will bring the total
number of foreign pornographic sites banned locally to 222, the
information and communication ministry said.


The ministry also said it would reinforce its task force, which
monitors and filters out obscene materials around the clock.


"Foreign pornographic sites have been key sources for Internet
users to spread obscene material on the local portals," said Kim
Yong-Moon, a ministry official handling the government policy.


Police said last week they were hunting Internet users who posted
pornographic clips that became the most viewed videos on Yahoo
Korea.


The portal publicly apologised for the clips, posted for more
than six hours on its multimedia service "Yammi", which had to be
temporarily shut down.


People have also posted porn on other local websites.


In South Korea, uploading obscene materials on the Internet is
subject to one year's imprisonment or a 10 million won (10,600
dollar) fine.


The ministry said the government would hold the local portals
responsible if they are found to be negligent.


User-created content, not only text but also video footage, is
gaining popularity among Internet users in South Korea, one of
the world's most wired countries.


Separately, the government blocked access to 32 Internet sites
deemed sympathetic to communist North Korea, bringing to 73 the
number of off-limit pro-Pyongyang sites, Yonhap news agency
reported.


The Defence Security Command said Monday it had asked the
information ministry to ban the sites.


In a statement the command also said it arrested 26 people on
charges of selling firearms, posting bombmaking techniques on the
Internet or smuggling drugs.


It also said it detained 20 people for leaking confidential
industrial information, and 25 others on suspicion of revealing
private information about 170,000 people on the Internet.

