

Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui warned Monday that very
low interest rates could store up trouble for the future as the
economy bounces back from its long slump.


"We need to gradually adjust the level of interest rates to
reflect changes in the economy and prices," Fukui said in
parliament.


"Even if the economy expands at a moderate rate, there are
concerns that we may see various adverse effects resulting from
the market's belief that the extremely easy interest rates will
last for a long time," he said.


His comments reflect the BoJ's concern that ultra loose monetary
policy could create an unsustainable economic boom and that if it
keeps interest rates very low it will have no leeway to cut them
if needed in the future.


The central bank last week held its key interest rate steady at
0.5 percent following February's quarter point hike, which was
the first increase since last July which ended over five years of
virtually free credit.


The majority of the monetary policy board agreed at last month's
meeting that "a virtuous circle of production, income, and
spending remained intact," according to minutes from the
gathering released Monday.


They took the view that if people expected interest rates to
remain low for a long time, there was a risk that sustained
economic growth would be hampered by misallocation of funds and
resources, the minutes added.


They said the February rate hike "was not intended to constrain
economic growth but to ensure sustainable growth by containing
large economic swings."


Board members agreed that the central bank would continue to
adjust interest rates gradually in light of developments in
economic activity and prices, while maintaining very low levels
for some time.


The BoJ has faced political pressure not to raise interest rates
too quickly and with inflation still very subdued, the central
bank is expected to move cautiously with further monetary
tightening.


"For now, we must continue to monitor the situation while
maintaining the easy monetary policy," Fukui said.


Analysts say that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's upper house of parliament mean that the
BoJ's next increase in interest rates is unlikely to come before
the second half of 2007.

