

Chinese President Hu Jintao headed to Russia on Monday for a
three-day trip that will see the two nations sign trade deals
worth up to four billion dollars, with energy expected to be a
key focus.


The visit, during which Hu will meet with Russian President
Vladimir Putin, will also be watched closely to see how the two
world powers address the global nuclear stand-offs involving Iran
and North Korea.


Hu told reporters ahead of his trip, his third to Russia since
becoming president, that it would further cement economic and
diplomatic relations that have warmed significantly since the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.


"I believe that, through joint efforts of both sides, the visit
will achieve substantial fruits, and inject new impetus into the
growth of China-Russian ties," China's state-run Xinhua news
agency quoted Hu as saying.


Hu will oversee the signing of trade deals worth up to four
billion dollars, Chinese state press reported on Monday.


Trade reached a record 33.4 billion dollars in 2006, up nearly 15
percent from 2005, according to Chinese figures, and the two
sides are looking for that figure to reach 60-80 billion dollars
by 2010.


To coincide with Hu's visit, China will hold in Moscow its
biggest-ever trade exhibition in a foreign country, with nearly
200 big Chinese companies to showcase their products.


The industries on display will range from state-of-the-art
sectors such as aerospace to historic ones, including tea and
silk, the China Daily reported.


Energy will also inevitably come into the spotlight as China
continues its global quest to secure more resources for its fast-
modernising population of over 1.3 billion people.


Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Li Hui told a briefing last
week that Hu and Putin would discuss long-delayed plans for a
Siberian oil pipeline.


Resource-rich Russia in 2003 opted against plans for a single
pipeline straight to China, choosing instead to skirt its
neighbour with a line to Russia's Pacific coast.


Since then, the talk has been of building a branch off that main
route to China's oil capital Daqing.


The prospect of closer Sino-Russian energy ties has caused some
supply concerns in the West, but Li sought to ease those fears,
while offering no specifics on the upcoming talks about the
Siberian pipeline.


"Energy cooperation between China and Russia... will not
undermine the interests of other countries or impact (on) the
world energy landscape," he said.


Hu's trip also coincides with rising tensions in the
multinational campaign to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions.


The Iranian government said Sunday it would restrict its
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in retaliation for the
Security Council sanctions over its disputed atomic programme.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad also vowed that no Security Council
resolution could ever halt the Islamic republic's "march" toward
the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.


Russia and China, which have energy interests in Iran, are key
players in the stand-off as they are both permanent Security
Council members and have sought to blunt US pressure on Tehran
over its nuclear programmes.


The two nations are also similarly important in the international
drive to end North Korea's nuclear drive. Russia and China are
part of the six-nation forum aimed at convincing the North to
give up its atomic programme.

