

Singapore's media regulator said Monday it is looking to expand
its jurisdiction from the traditional print and broadcast sector
to include the emergence of new media markets.


The Media Development Authority of Singapore (MDA) said it was
seeking public feedback to its Media Market Conduct Code, which
is under review to better address competition issues that may
arise under the new landscape.


It said the code was first implemented in 2003 to regulate the
market for print and broadcast media, mainly newspapers and
television.


But the situation was more complex since the emergence of
Internet broadband services and the convergence of
telecommunications and television services, it said.


"The media landscape has changed since 2003, and a good example
is the adoption of different business models by traditional and
new media players," said Ling Pek Ling, director for media policy
at MDA.


"With the emergence of new media markets and the introduction of
HDTV and IPTV services, it is timely for us to look at how we can
update our code to meet the needs of the media industry," she
said.


With high-definition television (HDTV), viewers can expect
sharply improved picture clarity, better sound quality and access
to interactive applications.


Internet protocol television, or IPTV, is a system where a
digital television service is delivered by a broadband connection
operated by a telecom firm.


As a sign of the changing landscape in Singapore the island's
sole cable operator, StarHub, has launched a HDTV service, making
it the first to offer the facility in Southeast Asia.


StarHub is also one of Singapore's three telecom operators and
offers Internet broadband services.


The MDA is also responsible for the country's censor board.


In a country where all local broadcasting outlets are government-
owned and newspapers are expected to be "partners" with the
government, many people have turned to websites and blogs for
alternative views of the city-state's political and social
issues.

