

The prospect of a first-ever meeting between rival Northern Irish
leaders Monday raised hopes for a last-ditch power-sharing deal
in the province, albeit delayed, hours before a crunch deadline.


Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain admitted the midnight (2300
GMT) Monday deadline could slip by a few weeks, if a deal was
struck between rival Catholic- and Protestant-backed leaders
Gerry Adams and Ian Paisley.


But Hain, who signed an order at the weekend restoring power to
Belfast despite the last-minute standoff, also reiterated that
Britain is ready to return power to London if there is no deal.


On Saturday Paisley's Democratic Unionists (DUP), who favour
remaining part of Britain, agreed to form an executive with
Adams' Sinn Fein -- but they want to delay devolution by six
weeks, until May, to overcome outstanding hurdles.


On Monday Hain confirmed that Adams was expected to meet
firebrand leader Paisley during the day for unprecedented talks
likely to cover a possible date for restoring full power-sharing.


"If the meeting between Ian Paisley and Gerry Adams goes ahead
then it is quite extraordinary ... If after the last 40 years and
more they can talk, then anything and everything is possible,"
Hain told BBC's Radio Four.


If the two men can strike a deal before the midnight (2300 GMT)
deadline, "we are in entirely new territory which makes the
prospect of devolution and stable devolved government much more
likely," he added.


"I am not worried about a deadline going over a few weeks, if we
have something that has never happened before," he added.


On Sunday, Hain signed an order restoring devolved powers to the
Northern Ireland Assembly, in which the DUP and Sinn Fein
dominate after elections earlier this month, to allow the parties
to try to form an executive.


But the British minister warned on Monday that, if there is no
deal, London remains ready to see power return to London.


"If if doesn't happen today, then the dissolution follows at one
minute past midnight or at least tomorrow," he said.


Hain said at the weekend that Paisley had twice attempted to
persuade him and British Prime Minister Tony Blair to introduce
emergency legislation on Monday to implement the six-week delay.


The DUP has refused to share power until Sinn Fein -- the former
political wing of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) -- accepts the
rule of British law and supports the police force and the IRA
renounces violence.


If the two parties reach agreement before the deadline, Paisley
is likely to become the province's first minister, with Sinn Fein
chief negotiator Martin McGuinness his probable deputy.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the 1998 Good Friday
peace agreement that largely brought an end to three decades of
sectarian violence in the province.


It has been suspended since October 2002 when allegations
surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the assembly
buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed directly from
London ever since.


Blair and Ahern revived prospects for power-sharing in the
troubled province with the so-called St. Andrews Agreement in
November last year, named for the Scottish city where the
negotiations took place.

