

A commission looking into the deadly violence in East Timor in
1999 heard Monday that soldiers from former occupying power
Indonesia were involved in many of the incidents.


Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo, the former bishop of East Timor's
capital, Dili, testified that pro-Indonesian militia and
Indonesian soldiers, in uniform or civilian dress, were involved
in much of the unrest.


"The establishment of these groups began to create an atmosphere
of intimidation and violence across the entire territory," he
said, referring to the militias.


Violence erupted in East Timor in 1999 around a UN-administered
vote for independence, when it chose self-determination following
24 years of occupation by neighbouring Indonesia.


Militia gangs, which the United Nations has said were recruited
and directed by Indonesia's military, killed about 1,400 people
and destroyed much of the infrastructure in the former Portuguese
colony.


The Indonesian-East Timor Truth and Friendship Commission, which
held its first hearing last month, aims to establish the truth
about the violence.


Belo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on East Timor,
said that militias and soldiers attacked a church filled with
refugees, killing at least five in April 1999 in Liquica, a town
west of Dili.


"Militia and members of the Liquica military command attacked the
church," he said in the capital Jakarta, speaking in Portuguese
through an Indonesian translator.


Belo said militias and soldiers rampaged when the results of the
independence referendum were announced in September 1999, and
that Dili's dioceses was torched the following day.


Impoverished East Timor is due to hold its first presidential
vote since independence, but there are fears new unrest could mar
the April 9 poll.


Belo said the troubled country had to achieve domestic
reconciliation before it could heal older wounds.


The commission is due to hear from Indonesia's president at the
time, BJ Habibie, on Tuesday in a closed session. Military
officials are also scheduled to testify later.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.

