

Chinese President Hu Jintao arrived in Russia on Monday for a
three-day trip expected to bring up to four billion dollars in
trade deals and include talks on Iran and North Korea.


Hu said the trip, his third to Russia since becoming president,
would further cement economic and diplomatic relations that have
grown significantly since the collapse of the Soviet Union in
1991.


"I believe that, through joint efforts by both sides, the visit
will bear substantial fruits, and inject new impetus into the
growth of China-Russian ties," China's state-run Xinhua news
agency quoted Hu as saying.


Hu and President Vladimir Putin will oversee the signing of trade
deals worth up to four billion dollars (three billion euros),
Russian and Chinese media reported.


Both sides said bilateral trade jumped over the past year, though
their statistics differed greatly: China said trade grew about 15
percent to 33.4 billion dollars in 2006, while Russia said trade
grew 43 percent to 28.6 billion dollars.


"We recognize that the disparity is there and that it is
significant," said Vladimir Zubkov, a spokesman for the Russian
customs service, commenting on the contradictory statistics.
Efforts were being made to remedy the problem, he said.


Nearly 200 Chinese companies selling everything from aerospace
technology to tea will showcase their products during the visit
at a trade exhibition in Moscow, China's biggest ever in a
foreign country.


Moscow and Beijing hope to raise trade to 60-80 billion dollars
by 2010.


Energy will be another key theme as China continues its quest to
secure more resources for its population of over 1.3 billion
people.


In addition to a new agreement on deliveries of oil by rail, Hu
and Putin will discuss a Siberian oil pipeline Russia is building
that the two sides have clashed over.


Resource-rich Russia in 2003 rejected plans for a single pipeline
to China, choosing instead to skirt its neighbour with a line to
Russia's Pacific coast.


Since then, Beijing has pushed hard for an additional branch to
China's Daqing, the centre of the country's oil industry.


Russia delivered 15 million tonnes of oil to China in 2006, 11
million tonnes of it by rail.


Moscow's plans to ship more oil and gas to China have sparked
concerns that supplies to the West might suffer, but Chinese
Assistant Foreign Minister Li Hui sought to ease those fears last
week.


"Energy cooperation between China and Russia... will not
undermine the interests of other countries or impact the world
energy landscape," he said.


As energy ties have grown, Moscow and Beijing have also boosted
diplomacy via the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and other
groups, repeatedly calling for a multipolar world order that
would balance US power.


They have taken closely aligned positions in talks meant to end
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and stem Iran's nuclear
ambitions -- both of which Putin and Hu planned to discuss, the
Kremlin said in a statement.


Russia and China, which have energy interests in Iran, are key
players in Tehran's stand-off with the West as permanent members
of the United Nations Security Council.


The two have sought to blunt US pressure on Tehran over its
nuclear programme, though both approved stricter sanctions
against the Islamic republic on Saturday for continuing uranium
enrichment in spite of previous UN resolutions.

