

Hong Kong's China-backed chief executive Donald Tsang, who was
awarded a second term in office at the weekend, now faces the
tough task of delivering on his campaign promise of political
reform.


Tsang -- who was given an easy win Sunday by the Chinese
territory's mainly pro- Beijing 800-member election committee --
vowed to end a decade-long row over Hong Kong's future by setting
it on the road to universal suffrage.


But fulfilling that pledge, a condition of Hong Kong's post-
colonial constitution, will not be easy.


Tsang must balance the demands of the communist party rulers in
Beijing, who are reluctant to agree to full democracy, against
the desires of people in the city, where calls for reform are
loud.


Analysts say both sides now want to see the matter settled.


"Beijing wants this issue cleared up and the Hong Kong people
certainly do," said Peter Cheung, a political analyst at Hong
Kong University.


"He is under pressure to put together a package that all sides
can agree to."


City University political science professor Joseph Cheng agreed,
saying: "Universal suffrage is written into the constitution and
Beijing wants to see some progress towards that.


"It understands that if nothing is done in this regard, it won't
look good. Its image would suffer."


Britain handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997 under a "one
country, two systems" agreement that gave the city a high degree
of autonomy and protected its capitalist way of life within
communist China for at least 50 years.


The Basic Law that came into force at the time enshrined the idea
that the city's leaders eventually be selected by the people
through universal suffrage.


Change has been slow in coming, however, because Beijing has the
final say on any reforms here and so far it -- and the government
here -- has rejected calls from democrats for a swift transition.


Efforts so far to placate the rival factions have ended in
failure.


A December 2005 bill that would have doubled the size of the
election committee was voted down by pro-democracy lawmakers who
said the reforms did not go far enough, effectively stalling the
issue for two years.


"That incident damaged both sides and left the issue of reform
hanging," said Cheung. "Tsang -- and Beijing -- do not want it
hanging around their neck any longer."


Tsang promised during his campaign to begin tackling the issue by
mid-year, by seeking public consensus about what shape the city's
future political structure should take.


His confident declaration has raised expectations here for
reform, with newspaper editorials staking the success of Tsang's
second term on his ability to effect change.


"He will be judged on his success or failure in bringing about
democratic reform," the South China Morning Post English-language
daily said in an editorial.


"In short he must ensure that Sunday's election is the last in
which the overwhelming majority of Hong Kong people are denied a
chance to vote."


Adding to the pressure on Tsang to deliver will be his defeated
election rival, Cambridge-educated lawmaker Alan Leong, whose
manifesto was dominated by a promise to bring full democracy to
Hong Kong by the next election in 2012.


Leong's bid was the first challenge to an incumbent leader since
the 1997 handover and the move has been widely praised for
forcing Tsang into defending and promoting his policies in open
debate, a concept once unheard of.


Leong drew surprisingly strong support in the election committee,
gaining 123 votes, which has been interpreted here as a sign that
the powerful middle classes and business community is tiring of
the slow pace of reform.


Indeed, tycoon Richard Li -- the son of Asia's richest man,
industrialist Li Ka- shing -- articulated such sentiment after
Sunday's poll when he called for universal suffrage by the next
election.


"This is, if you like, a third force gathering," said Julia Tao,
a professor of public administration at Hong Kong City
University.


"The professionals are beginning to show their colours. It's very
interesting and, I think, it's going to be a potent force."

