

Afghanistan's government is setting up its own madrassas, or
religious schools, to counter the Taliban's use of education as a
"weapon of terrorism," Education Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar
says.


The first will be established in two months, with one eventually
to open in each of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, the minister said
in an interview with AFP.


"The enemies of democracy in this country, the enemies of
stability in this part of the world, are actually using education
as a weapon of terrorism. They have established for some time now
across the border hate madrassas," he said.


Afghans from poor backgrounds who are enrolled into these free
boarding schools are ripe for recruitment into the Taliban
insurgency.


"They teach them hate and they teach them the kind of things that
have no consistency with our religion.


"And as a result they get suicide bombers recruited from these
madrassas and they get Taliban fighters from these madrassas,"
said the 39-year-old minister, one of the youngest in President
Hamid Karzai's cabinet.


The fundamentalist Taliban were students at madrassas in Pakistan
before the government there helped them to seize power in
Afghanistan in 1996. They were ousted in a US-led invasion in
late 2001.


Atmar said it was now the government's "ethical responsibility"
to offer a tolerant and modern Islamic education, as many parents
wanted religious schooling for their children.


The planned schools, which Atmar said should initially
accommodate up to 50,000 children, are to offer 40 percent
religious education, 40 percent general education and 20 percent
computer science and foreign languages.


The curriculum would produce graduates who are more employable
than those from traditional madrassas whose students could become
teachers in religious schools, mullahs or even "join the Taliban
ranks," Atmar said.


The schools would be supervised by the ministry and community
boards to ensure that teachers did not deviate from teaching a
moderate version of Islam, he said.


The minister wants to recruit the best educators for the
madrassas but faces a severe shortage of qualified teachers, with
a poorly skilled labour force one of the many legacies of 25
years of war.


Around 80 percent of the existing teaching force of about 143,000
is not qualified, he said.


"We have to work on two fronts: one, to train a new generation of
teachers with a special focus on female teachers and second to
provide in-service training to our existing teachers," he said.


A priority is to boost the attendance of girl pupils with their
numbers still far lower than for boys five years after the
expulsion of the Taliban regime that did not allow girls to go to
school.


"At the moment for every two boys, I have one girl in primary
school. But in secondary, for every five to six boys I have one
girl," Atmar said. "That ratio must change."


The minister conceded Taliban attacks, such as burning schools,
had undermined his ministry's efforts in "small pockets in the
country," primarily in the south where the insurgency is the most
active.


A total of 44 teachers had been killed in such attacks in 12
months, he said, with most of the killings in the south.


"Six months ago, there was every day two to three incidents
happening to our schools, teachers and students. These days it is
only two to three incidents a week."


He attributed the fall in part to the establishment of local
councils to protect schools and education, both through providing
security and increasing public awareness.


And in a country where most people are illiterate -- the
statistic rising to 90 percent of rural women, according to the
United Nations -- the importance of education takes on particular
significance.


"Democracy will never be fully operationalised if people are not
able to read and write and if the human capital is not there,"
Atmar said.

