

International judges on Cambodia's Khmer Rouge tribunal are
delaying genocide trials with a "childish" fight over the
participation of foreign counsel, the country's Bar Association
chief said Monday.


The stalled trials are being threatened by a row over fees which
the Bar is demanding foreign lawyers pay if they wish to defend
former Khmer Rouge leaders who are put on the dock.


Bar Association president Ky Tech told reporters the fees --
which could be as much as 4,900 dollars a year -- would be used
to offset administrative work done by Cambodians assisting
international lawyers.


But international jurists say the fees will discourage foreign
lawyers from joining the tribunal and deny defendants their right
to counsel.


Ky Tech said the Bar was being "intimidated" by foreign judges,
who have threatened to boycott next month's plenary session
during which internal rules necessary for the trials to go
forward are to be approved.


All 29 foreign and Cambodian judges to the UN-backed tribunal are
to meet April 30 to formally adopt the regulations which govern
every phase of the tribunal.


"They are using pressure and intimidation by taking this issue as
an excuse to boycott the meeting and not adopt the internal
rules," he said.


"They have given us an ultimatum. The Bar considers this boycott
threat a childish game. ... They are obstructing the trials," he
added.


Chief defence lawyer Rupert Skilbeck said earlier he was
confident the fee row would be resolved and the trials would go
forward, adding he was to meet with the Bar to negotiate a
solution.


Ky Tech also said the Bar wanted to resolve the issue of fees,
but would not "take orders" from the foreign judges, adding that
"if (Skilbeck) came to sit and negotiate, without trying to take
advantage of each other, we can solve this."


He denied the Bar was being manipulated by the Cambodian
government, which has repeatedly been accused of trying to stall
the trials.


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that ageing Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

