

Plans by US technology giant Intel to build a huge semiconductor
plant in northeast China are likely to send shockwaves through
the region's fiercely competitive chip industry, analysts said.


It will serve as a wake-up call not just for Asian companies but
also for governments, as the 2.5-billion-dollar facility will
help transfer know-how at a time when China is pushing hard to
become a modern, high-tech economy.


"The biggest impact will be the improvement in China's
manufacturing technology, and that's what other countries are
afraid of," said Patrick Liao, a Taiwan- based semiconductor
specialist with International Data Corp.


The plant, to be located in the northeast China port city of
Dalian, will initially produce relatively uncomplicated chipsets,
but it could eventually move toward greater technological
sophistication, according to Intel.


"The opportunity to do other products is really wide open so we
will watch that as the market and various government regulations
evolve," Intel president and CEO Paul Otellini told a briefing
Monday in Beijing.


Semiconductors are vital to modern technology -- they are at the
heart of microprocessor chips and used in everything from cars to
fridges, although the Dalian plant is expected to produce chips
for computers.


There is no obvious historical parallel for the type of
transformation that is in store for the regional semiconductor
industry, and by extension all its technology producers.


China, with a population of over 1.3 billion people, is much
bigger than any of the existing chip powers, such as Taiwan,
Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia.


Its semiconductor industry is also developing at a much faster
pace than in those counties, as technology advances and is
disseminated at a higher speed than ever before.


It took Taiwan's semiconductor industry, which is a major
producer of the type of wafers Intel intends to build at its
China plant, a full 15 years to take off and become a major
global player.


By contrast, high-end technology is likely to spread across China
in just three to five years after Intel opens the plant and
starts hiring local engineers, Liao estimated.


"The learning curve of China will accelerate as more and more
people there will have access to high-tech manufacturing, design
and quality," he said.


The establishment of an indigenous chip production ability was
just a matter of time given the needs of China's enterprises,
according to Jeter Chang, a researcher at the Taipei-based
private think-tank Topology Research Institute.


"China has become the world's factory for electronic products
like cellphones, monitors and computers, and so its demand for
semiconductors has risen at a fast pace," Chang said.


"Despite China's fast development in semiconductor industry,
locally manufactured chips can meet only up to 30 percent of its
domestic demand."


Just as importantly, Chinese policy makers know very well from
watching the rapid rise in wages that they cannot rely on the
labour-intensive assembly of imported components forever, and
must move up the technological ladder.


Even if China's move into relatively advanced chip manufacturing
was to be expected, companies across the region will now be
scrambling to respond.


"It will mean more competitive pressure for Malaysian companies,'
said Lee Heng Guie, the head of economics at Malaysia's CIMB
Investment Bank.


"Those who are in this line will continue to upgrade themselves
and move into higher-value products," he said.


It also reinforces semiconductors as increasingly commodified
products, leading to an industry where profit margins are often
wafer-thin.


"Everyone will be upgrading. It's an industry which is tough to
be in and in which you have to spend even more money while chip
prices continue to fall," said Song Seng Wun, a Singapore-based
economist with CIMB-GK brokerage.

