

Indonesia's health minister called Monday for new rules to govern
the development of human vaccines against bird flu to ensure
poorer nations can afford them.


Siti Fadilah Supari made the call at a World Health Organisation
(WHO) bird flu meeting intended to resolve a dispute with
Indonesia, the country worst-hit by the disease, over sharing
virus samples for key tests.


"The existing process in which the WHO and its affiliates share
virus samples with private companies, without collaboration with
the countries from which virus samples originate, is unacceptable
for developing countries," she said.


"The system places developing countries at a potential
disadvantage in terms of price access and supplies," she said.
"The laws of the system should be modified."


Indonesia announced in February that it had stopped sending
samples to the WHO over concerns they would be used to develop
pricey vaccines beyond poorer countries' budgets.


It has asked for a legal guarantee that samples sent to
international WHO reference laboratories for tests -- a process
said to be key in fighting human flu -- will not be exploited for
profit by drugs firms.


Supari said the current approach to virus sharing and vaccine
development, which dates back about 50 years, favoured rich
nations and their pharmaceutical firms.


"I have talked with representatives of nations around the world
and, in particular, Indonesia's regional neighbours," she said.


"I think I speak for all of them in saying that the issue created
by the current system is one of the highest public health
priorities."


Thailand, which earlier this year breached patents on AIDS drugs,
reportedly supports Indonesia's stance but is still sharing
samples with the WHO.


Indonesian People's Welfare Minister Aburizal Bakrie said the
potential for unequal access to bird flu vaccines posed one of
the weightiest moral dilemmas the world faced, given the
potential impact of a human flu pandemic.


"The risk is still very high," he said. "Vaccines ... are the
most important medical intervention for reducing morbidity and
mortality of an influenza pandemic."


Indonesia has already signed a cooperation agreement with US
company Baxter International to jointly develop a human bird flu
vaccine in a bid to ensure it benefits from a future treatment.


Representatives from 16 nations and organisations are attending
the WHO meeting in Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, to discuss
"responsible practices" for sharing virus samples.


Indonesia has suffered 66 human deaths from bird flu, the world's
highest toll, and 86 confirmed cases. The WHO says there have
been 281 cases and 169 deaths worldwide, mostly in Southeast
Asia.


Scientists fear the H5N1 bird flu strain could mutate into a form
easily spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.

