

Myanmar's junta used its first major press conference in its new
capital Monday to insist there were no racial conflicts, severe
human rights abuses or ethnic cleansing in the country.


Tens of thousands of people are believed to have fled a military
offensive along Myanmar's border with Thailand, allowing human
rights groups to charge that the regime is deliberately driving
them away.


"Myanmar has no ethnic cleansing, racial conflicts, or severe
human rights violations," information minister Brigadier General
Kyaw Hsan told reporters.


It was the first press conference Myanmar has held for
international media in its new administrative capital Naypyidaw,
where the government and military moved their offices a year ago.


Human Rights Watch estimates that 27,000 of the minority ethnic
Karen fled their homes after the military launched its major
offensive against them in February 2006. They joined an estimated
100,000 already hiding near the Thai border.


Analysts have said the offensive was designed in part to create a
sweeping security cordon around the new capital in central
Myanmar, where junta leader Senior General Than Shwe and other
top officials now live.


Kyaw Hsan insisted that military operations along the border were
limited to clearing landmines, and accused the rebel Karen
National Union of forcing ethnic Karen villagers to leave their
homes.


"In this way, the so-called refugee camps emerged here and there
along the border," he said.


"It is a plot to obtain cash and kind assistance from the
international community by showing them as refugees and to put
the blame on the government," he added.


Kyaw Hsan's remarks came at the start of the hours-long press
conference that included lengthy denials of the litany of human
rights abuses that rights groups accuse the military of
inflicting on the nation.


In addition to claims of forced relocations and targetting
civilians for attack, the junta also stands accused of engaging
in forced labour, allowing rampant drug trafficking, denying
religious freedom and using child soldiers.


The regime is under US and European sanctions for failing to make
promised democratic reforms and for its continued detention of
pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.

