

Bomb attacks killed five US soldiers in Iraq, the US military
said on Monday amid reports that the outgoing US ambassador held
talks last year with Sunni rebel groups in a bid to curb the
country's raging insurgency.


Four of the Americans were killed in a roadside bombing on Sunday
gainst their patrol in the troubled province of Diyala, where the
chief US commander has said his troops are battling Al-Qaeda,
Sunni, Shiite and even Kurdish renegades.


Two troops were also wounded in the attack, while another soldier
died in northwestern Baghdad on the same day in another roadside
bombing -- the biggest single killer of US forces fighting in
Iraq.


The latest casualties brought the military's losses to 3,234 in
since US-led foreign troops invaded Iraq in March 2003 to oust
president Saddam Hussein, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


In Iraq's third city of Mosul, gunmen on Sunday killed Sunni
tribal leader Mohammed Jassim al-Guud, a member of the Al-Ubada
that is a significant Arab tribe in northern Iraq, said police
Major Mohammed Ahmed.


Guud's son and nephew were also wounded after the insurgents
sprayed his vehicle with gunshots in central Mosul late Sunday,
the policeman added.


A police major was similarly killed in a Mosul drive-by shooting
on Monday while the bodies of two male civilians -- one beheaded
and one riddled with bullets were found dumped in a western part
of the city, Ahmed said.


Four years after the invasion, the more than 140,000 US forces in
Iraq are still bogged down fighting a gruelling and ever changing
insurgency waged by armed groups, and are a battling to contain
Shiite-Sunni sectarian warfare.


All powerful for decades, the country's Sunni minority lost
dominance to the Shiite majority after Saddam fell from power in
2003 and boycotted the first post-Saddam national election. The
current government is Shiite-led.


Iraqi and US troops last month launched a marathon security
operation, the latest in a series of plans to quell the country,
deploying 80,000 forces to Baghdad in a bid to wrest back control
of the violence-wracked capital.


In an interview with the New York Times published on Monday,
Washington's ambassador in Baghdad, Zalmay Khalilzad, admitted
for the first time to holding talks with presumed insurgent
leaders in a bid to lure hardline Sunnis into mainstream
politics.


"There were discussions with the representatives of various
groups in the aftermath of the elections, and during the
formation of the government before the Samarra incident, and some
discussions afterwards as well," Khalilzad said.


The interview made him the first US official to publicly
acknowledge personally holding such talks, which the newspaper
said began in early 2006.


The Times said among the interlocutors were self-identified
representatives of the Islamic Army of Iraq and the 1920
Revolution Brigades, two leading nationalist groups that have
claimed killings of Americans and Westerners.


Khalilzad also reiterated his position that Baghdad and
Washington had to consider granting amnesty to insurgents, just
days after Iraqi Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi said talks were
the only well to quell the unrest.


Hashemi, a moderate Sunni, told the BBC: "I do believe there is
no way but to talk to everybody" -- with the exception of terror
network Al-Qaeda.


Khalilzad, an Afghan-born Sunni who played a key role in
negotiations over a new Iraqi constitution and the formation of
the governing coalition, has justified his outreach to Sunnis was
vital to find consensus.


"I recognised from the beginning when I came that the big issue
was to get an agreement among Iraqis on the basic issues that
divided the country," he told Western reporters in another
interview on Sunday.


Recently appointed head of US Central Command as part of a shake-
up in US top military brass running the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, Admiral William Fallon was on Monday continuing his first
visit to Iraq in his new post.


US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver said
Fallon is due to meet Iraqi government and military leaders.

