

Attacks swept across Iraq on Monday with six Iraqis and five US
soldiers declared dead amid reports that the outgoing US
ambassador held talks with Sunni rebel groups in a bid to curb
the insurgency.


Four of the Americans were killed in a roadside bombing on Sunday
in the troubled province of Diyala, where the local US commander
has said his troops are battling Al-Qaeda, Sunni, Shiite and even
Kurdish renegades.


Two troops were also wounded in the attack, while another soldier
died in northwest Baghdad on the same day in another roadside
bombing -- the biggest single killer of US forces in Iraq.


The latest deaths brought to 3,234 the military's losses in Iraq
since the March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


Four years after the invasion, the 140,000 plus US troops in Iraq
are still bogged down fighting a gruelling and ever changing
insurgency while battling to contain sectarian conflict between
the Shiite majority and the ousted Sunni Arab elite.


Security officials also reported six Iraqi dead, including two
killed in Baghdad, where 80,000 Iraqi and US troops have deployed
as part of a massive security operation seeking to wrest back
control of the war-torn capital.


A policeman was killed and four others wounded when a roadside
bomb ripped through their patrol in the south Baghdad
neighbourhood of Zafaraniya. A civilian died and three others
were wounded in a mortar attack in the Sunni insurgent stronghold
of Dura.


In Iskandiriyah, south of the capital, a soldier and a civilian
were killed when Iraqi army troops clashed with gunmen at a Sunni
mosque.


Violence also swept the north, where a Sunni leader of the Al-
Ubada tribe was killed in a drive-by shooting in the main city of
Mosul on Sunday that also wounded his son and nephew, police
Major Mohammed Ahmed said.


A police major was shot dead in the city on Monday and the bodies
of two male civilians -- one beheaded and one riddled with
bullets -- were also found dumped in a western district of Mosul,
Ahmed said.


In an interview published by the New York Times on Monday,
outgoing US ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad admitted for the first
time to holding talks with presumed insurgent leaders last year
in a bid to lure hardline Sunnis into mainstream politics.


"There were discussions with the representatives of various
groups in the aftermath of the elections, and during the
formation of the government before the Samarra incident, and some
discussions afterwards as well," Khalilzad said.


The interview made him the first US official to publicly
acknowledge personally holding such talks, which the newspaper
said began in early 2006.


The Sunni Arab minority, which dominated Saddam Hussein's regime
and all previous Iraqi governments, has been increasingly
disenchanted since the invasion empowered the long oppressed
Shiite majority, which now leads the government.


The New York Times said among Khalilzad's interlocutors were
self-identified representatives of the Islamic Army of Iraq and
the 1920 Revolution Brigades, two leading nationalist groups that
have claimed killings of Americans and Westerners.


The ambassador also reiterated his position that Baghdad and
Washington had to consider granting amnesty to insurgents, just
days after Iraqi Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi said talks were
the only way to quell the unrest.


Hashemi, a moderate Sunni, told the BBC: "I do believe there is
no way but to talk to everybody" -- with the exception of
militant network Al-Qaeda, for whom talks are in any case
anathema.


Khalilzad, an Afghan-born Sunni who played a key role in
negotiations over a new Iraqi constitution and the formation of
the governing coalition, has justified his outreach to Sunnis as
vital to national reconciliation.


"I recognised from the beginning when I came that the big issue
was to get an agreement among Iraqis on the basic issues that
divided the country," he told reporters in another interview on
Sunday.

