

Thousands of right-wing Jewish settlers were Monday planning to
reoccupy a West Bank settlement cleared in August 2005 as part of
Israel's so-called disengagement plan.


Israel's dovish Defence Minister and Labour Party leader Amir
Peretz has granted permission for the settlers to march on the
former settlement of Homesh, but vowed no settlers will be
allowed to reclaim the evacuated homes.


Police said the demonstrators will have to leave the hilltop
redoubt before nightfall or be forcibly removed. But settler
leaders said they would remain to rebuild homes that police razed
a year and a half ago.


"It is a historic day. The Israeli flag will again fly above
Homesh, where we want to return to live," said Yossi Dagan, a
former resident of a neighbouring settlement that was evacuated
at the same time as Homesh.


Other settler leaders predicted 5,000 demonstrators would
participate in the march to take back a settlement that once
housed 70 families.


Police have forbidden settlers to use vehicles to return to
Homesh, so marchers will have to cover the eight kilometre (five
mile) distance on foot, passing several Palestinian villages on
the way.


Around 1,000 police officers and border guards, and several
hundred soldiers have been mobilized to maintain order and
protect the marchers, a police source said.


Homesh was established as a military outpost in 1978 but turned
over to settlers in 1980. Many of its inhabitants were pious and
militant zealots who believed they were doing God's work
resettling their Biblical homeland of Samaria.


Then prime minister Ariel Sharon evacuated Homesh and three other
West Bank settlements as part of his now-defunct plan for a
partial withdrawal from the West Bank.


He also evacuated 21 settlements and all army outposts from the
Gaza Strip following an occupation of 38 years.


But Prime Minister Ehud Olmert shelved an election promise to
follow through on his predecessor's plans to redraw the borders
of the Jewish state by withdrawing from most of the West Bank and
annexing the largest settlement blocs following the summer war in
Lebanon.


Now Olmert's popularity is at an all time low and settlers are
flexing their muscles up and down the West Bank.


Late on Monday, 200 Jewish settlers occupied a house near the
flashpoint West Bank city of Hebron that they claimed to have
bought from a Palestinian for 700,000 dollars. Palestinian Faez
Rajabi, however, says he has owned the house for 15 years and has
not sold it to anyone.


Israeli police have said they are checking the validity of the
settlers' documents laying claim to the home before deciding on
whether to evict them.


Under the now stalled internationally drafted roadmap plan for
peace in the Middle East, Israel was to freeze settlement
expansion, but is today building more than 3,000 housing units in
the occupied West Bank, according to the Israeli watchdog group
Peace Now.

