

Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, backed by supporters of ousted long-
time dictator Maaouiya Ould Taya, was in the lead Monday to
become Mauritania's first democratically elected president since
independence from France in 1960.


A former government minister, Abdallahi had 53.5 percent of the
vote in Sunday's runoff presidential election with 82 percent of
the ballots counted, an interior ministry source said.


Sunday's vote, which was held without major incident, was the
final stage of democratic reforms led by the military junta that
ousted Taya in August 2005. After a constitutional referendum in
June, local and parliamentary polls were held in November and
senatorial elections in January.


Abdallahi, 69, was leading in 11 of the country's 13 regions.


His opponent, longtime opposition politician Ahmed Ould Daddah,
65, won more than 60 percent in the capital Nouakchott and was
leading in his native Trarza region in the southeast, the
interior ministry source said.


Complete preliminary results were expected later Monday. Voter
turnout was nearly 59 percent at 1800 GMT on Sunday.


Both candidates are former political prisoners and exiles in a
mostly desert country bordering Mali, Algeria, Senegal and
Western Sahara twice the size of France but with just 3.1 million
inhabitants.


Abdallahi, supported by a coalition of 18 political groups once
loyal to Taya, took 25 percent of the vote in the first round on
March 11 and was considered the favorite to win.


Daddah won 21 percent in the first round.


Abdallahi had presented himself to voters as a consensus
candidate who could get things done as his coalition has a
majority in parliament.


"We can move the country forward with the largest coalition
possible," he said Friday.


The election went generally well, EU observer mission chief
Marie-Anne Isler Beguin said Sunday. "Nothing has stopped the
process. There have been no incidents, no unauthorised people in
polling stations," she told reporters.


Rulers in Mauritania have traditionally stormed to office through
military takeovers followed by fraudulent elections.


The incoming president will take over from coup leader Colonel
Ely Ould Mohamed Vall, who had promised not to influence the
election.


He was quoted in newspapers Sunday as expressing his
"satisfaction" with the electoral process and his pride at the
"perfect success of the democratic transition."


To guarantee transparency to the democratic transition, the junta
barred its members from standing for political office and Vall
carefully avoided indicating whether he has any political
ambitions after the current polls.


The new president will be invested on March 19 and can serve a
maximum of two five-year terms.

