

The new sanctions imposed on Iran by the UN Security Council over
Tehran's nuclear programme are "reversible", Russia's deputy
foreign minister said Monday.


The sanctions passed by the United Nations Security Council on
Saturday "are another signal to the Iranian government and we
would hope that they would understand it correctly," the Itar-
Tass news agency quoted Sergei Kisliak as saying.


"All sanctions are reversible and it is still possible to resolve
the Iranian question through political means," the deputy
minister added.


The Security Council imposed new economic and trade sanctions on
Iran after the country ignored repeated ultimatums to suspend
uranium enrichment, the process that produces fuel for nuclear
power stations but in highly enriched form can also be used to
make an atomic bomb.


Russia and the other four permanent members of the Security
Council -- Britain, China, France, and the United States -- plus
Germany have called for further talks with Iran to end the row
over its nuclear programme.


"We had hoped that Iran would take (this proposition) seriously,"
Kisliak said.


The UN resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The new sanctions against Tehran, following measures already
adopted in December, were imposed after Iran not only ignored the
first resolution but actually accelerated its enrichment
activities, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.


Iran said Sunday it would restrict its cooperation with the UN
nuclear watchdog in retaliation for the sanctions.


The Russian economic daily Kommersant on Monday took an alarmist
view of the issue saying Tehran's defiance would lead to military
action against the country.


"Challenge to Iran. The major power are preparing to evacuate
their citizens from Iran," the headlines declared.


The newspaper said "no one believes that it (Iran) will accept
the ultimatum" to end its uranium enrichment programme and that
the two-month deadline is designed to let the major powers
"prepare themselves morally and materially for a showdown."

