

The UN Security Council formally receives UN envoy Martii
Ahtisaari's proposals for the future status of Kosovo on Monday,
kicking off what is likely to be tough discussions between key
members.


The next step in the drawn out process of deciding on Kosovo's
fate is eagerly awaited by Serbs and the province's ethnic
Albanians in the province who remain as far apart as ever.


After many months of sometimes fruitless discussions between the
two sides, the council is will begin discussions on the UN
envoy's recommendations which proposes self-governance under
international supervision for Kosovo.


"Sometimes I think that everyone in the world, every single
politician or ordinary man, is aware that Kosovo can be nothing
but independent, except people in Serbia," said Ferki Berisha, a
37-year-old shop assistant in Pristina.


In the Serbian capital Belgrade, 35-year-old Olga Petrovic had a
completely different take on the prospect of Serbia losing
control of the province


"I cannot believe that the world will allow Kosovo to be taken
away from Serbia, without a single objection," said Petrovic.


"Kosovo is not an alien land, it has been a part of Serbia for
centuries and, despite everything that has happened in the past
few decades, that territory cannot simply be proclaimed a new
state," she said.


Though still formally part of Serbia Belgrade has not had direct
control of the area since its forces were forced to withdraw from
the territory by a NATO bombing campaign. Since 1999 it has been
under United Nations administration.


Now, after almost eight years of limbo, the process is gearing up
for a key stage when next month the UN Security Council will
debate the unresolved status of the tiny, land-locked Serbian
province.


Citing the repression they suffered during the regime of late
Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic, Kosovo's 90-percent ethnic
Albanian population reject any possibility of ever coming under
Belgrade's control again.


"People here will not accept a return to Serbia. Serbia's rule
over Kosovo is now only the past," said 64-year-old Enver Syla.


In modern times, that rule has lasted since 1913, when an
independent Serbia regained control of the area from the Ottoman
empire following the Balkan wars and its modern-day borders were
recognised.


Since that moment, Serb sociologist Milovan Markovic says the two
sides have never been further apart.


"For the Serbs, Kosovo is not only the birthplace of their
religion and nation since pre-medieval times, but also the land
that rightfully belongs to them, no matter who lives there," said
Markovic.


But Serbia has already become a "neighbouring country" in the
mind-set of Kosovo Albanians, who severed most ties with Belgrade
almost 20 years ago. Their leaders set up parallel institutions
to run Kosovo after Milosevic revoked the province's autonomy
granted before the breakup of the former Yugoslavia.


"There's a whole new generation of young people here who don't
remember Serbia's brutal rule over Kosovo, don't speak Serbian
and even consider it as another, slightly weird country," said
Pristina lawyer Agron Miftari.


"Kosovo's fate is in the hands of the international community and
there can be no surprises over its status," said Syla.


While ethnic Albanians expect the Security Council debate to
result in independence, Serbs believe their traditional ally,
Russia, will veto such a move.


"The only possible solution is to block independence as it would
be a clear case of 'extorting' a part of Serbia's territory,"
said 49-year-old Kosovo Serb refugee Slobodan Stanic.


Echoing the words of their political leaders, most of Serbs
accuse Ahtisaari of favouring independence-seeking ethnic
Albanians.


But in Kosovo, Albanians dismissed such claims, saying any other
decision but independence would provoke further tensions or even
violence in the still fragile Balkans.


"Ahtisaari didn't recommend the independence of Kosovo because he
prefers Albanians to Serbs, but because an independent Kosovo is
the reality," said 24 -year-old Pristina student Ardiana Alaj.


"I expect the Security Council to confirm there is no chance to
return Kosovo under Serbia's roof except if someone wants a new
war between them until one of the sides is exterminated," warned
Alaj.

