

Hong Kong's China-backed leader Donald Tsang is now under
pressure to move the territory toward democracy after winning
another term in office at the weekend, local newspapers said
Monday.


"He will be judged on his success or failure in bringing about
democratic reform," Hong Kong's best-selling English-language
newspaper, the South China Morning Post, said in an editorial.


"In short, he must ensure that yesterday's election is the last
in which the overwhelming majority of Hong Kong people are denied
a chance to vote," it said.


The nearly 800 members of the election committee -- the only
people allowed to vote for Chief Executive, most of them Beijing
loyalists -- gave Tsang another term in office Sunday with a
649-123 win over challenger Alan Leong.


It was the first contested leadership election since Britain
handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997, and forced Tsang to hold
two debates with his challenger and even make his case to the
people with some campaign rallies.


"We hope that yesterday's chief executive election was the last
of the spiritless Chief Executive elections and the final poll
led only by a small circle of people," the Apple Daily said.


The Hong Kong Economic Journal said the contested election will
force the government and even the Chinese leadership in Beijing
to take into account the opinions of the pro-democracy camp.


Although Tsang has high popularity to go along with Beijing's
blessing, this does not mean he will get a free ride on his
policies, the paper said.


"If the government still doesn't have firm support from the
legislature, he would find it hard to resolve the democracy issue
without the backing of the democratic camp," it said.


Governed by the rule of law and driven by the freest of free
markets, Hong Kong has unique status in China -- a policy former
Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping described as "one country, two
systems" when the 1997 handover took place.


But the universal suffrage envisioned in the Basic Law that was
written for post-handover Hong Kong has not come to pass, and
only some citizens are allowed to vote for some members of the
election committee.


"We have laid the foundation to universal suffrage," Tsang said
after Sunday's vote.

