

Northern Ireland's rival party leaders Ian Paisley and Gerry
Adams met Monday for the first time ever, in a last-ditch bid to
restore self-rule in the province, hours before a crunch
deadline.


Paisley, of the Protestant Democratic Unionist Party, and Adams,
of Catholic arch-rivals Sinn Fein, held their historic face-to-
face meeting after reportedly reaching consensus on a DUP
proposal to extend a midnight Monday (2300 GMT) power-sharing
deadline by six weeks.


According to a draft statement seen by AFP, the two sides agreed
in principle to restore self-rule in Belfast on May 8.


Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain had earlier
stated that London would be willing to let the Monday deadline
slip by a few weeks, if Paisely and Adams could strike a deal.


But Hain also reiterated that Britain was ready to return power
to London if there was no agreement.


The British government had previously said that date was "set in
stone" but the unprecedented meeting between the bitter rivals
prompted the suggestions of greater flexibility.


"I am not worried about a deadline going over a few weeks if we
have something that has never happened before," Hain told BBC
radio.


According to witnesses, Adams and Paisley -- who has long refused
to hold direct talks with the Sinn Fein leader -- sat only a few
feet apart at the corner ofthe diamond-shaped table. Both parties
took 11-member delegations with them.


Responding to news of the talks, British Prime Minister Tony
Blair's official spokesman said: "Let us be clear -- if there's a
consensus about the way forward, the British government isn't
going to stand in the way of that consensus.


"The important thing is there has to be an agreed way forward. If
that's in prospect then we will do everything we can to comply
with that."


Paisley and Adams were set to make separate statements on their
talks around midday (1100 GMT).


On Sunday, Hain signed an order restoring devolved powers to the
Northern Ireland Assembly, in which the DUP and Sinn Fein
dominate after elections earlier this month, to allow the parties
to try to form an executive.


The DUP has refused to share power until Sinn Fein -- the former
political wing of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) -- accepts the
rule of British law and supports the police force and the IRA
renounces violence.


If the two parties reach agreement, Paisley is likely to become
the province's first minister, with Sinn Fein chief negotiator
Martin McGuinness his probable deputy.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the 1998 Good Friday
peace agreement that largely brought an end to three decades of
sectarian violence in the province.


It has been suspended since October 2002 when allegations
surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the assembly
buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed directly from
London ever since.


Blair and Ahern revived prospects for power-sharing in the
troubled province with the so-called St. Andrews Agreement in
November last year, named for the Scottish city where the
negotiations took place.

