

South Korean prosecutors on Monday accused major US investment
fund Lone Star of manipulating share prices during a bank
takeover as the fund's local chief went on trial.


"It is a cautiously premeditated crime of stock manipulation
involving American executives of Lone Star and Yoo Hoe-won, who
is well versed with the situation in South Korea," prosecutor Lee
Dong-Yeol told the court.


Defence lawyer Chang Yong-Kook said Yoo, the head of Lone Star's
Seoul office, was being made a scapegoat in the prosecution's
targeting of the firm.


Dallas-based Lone Star has been beset by problems since it bought
a 50.5 percent stake in then troubled Korea Exchange Bank (KEB)
for 1.4 trillion won (now 1.49 billion dollars) in 2003.


It has been under investigation since March last year over
allegations that KEB's value was deliberately underestimated to
secure a bargain price.


The current case concerns KEB's takeover of its separately-listed
credit card unit a month after the bank purchase. Yoo is accused
of manipulating the card unit's stock price to drive it down.


He is alleged to have colluded with Lone Star's US-based vice
chairman Ellis Short and general counsel Michael Thomson, who
have refused to comply with arrest warrants issued in Seoul.


Prosecutors say smaller shareholders lost about 22.6 billion won
(24.4 million dollars) as a result.


Yoo was also accused of perjury and breach of trust but denied
all charges.


"Lone Star has gained public trust among its investors, mostly
state governments of the United States or Canada, pension funds
for public officials, international organisations and banks," he
told the court, Yonhap news agency reported.


"I can't imagine that such a fund company which manages 20
trillion won around the globe deliberately commits an illegality
to make a tiny amount of profit."


Yoo also said the government had strongly recommended that KEB
retain its credit card unit through a merger since most credit
card firms were facing financial trouble at the time.


Ealier this month the state Board of Audit and Inspection said
Lone Star was "not qualified" in 2003 to be KEB's largest
shareholder and that the bank's losses had been deliberately
inflated to undercut its value.


Lone Star chairman John Grayken has said the findings did not
explain why many different state bodies had approved the deal at
the time.


Many locals resent foreign companies who have made fat profits by
selling off South Korean assets acquired cheaply in the fallout
from the 1997 Asian financial crisis but foreign firms say they
took the risks and should reap the rewards.


Lone Star has said it did nothing wrong and is the victim of a
politically motivated probe driven by hostility to foreign
investors.


It has been forced to drop a 7.4 billion dollar deal to sell KEB
to South Korea's Kookmin Bank.


The next court hearing was set for April 23.

