

EU finance ministers are to take stock of Europe's economic
outlook on Monday and Tuesday for the first time since a major
financial market rout rattled investor confidence worldwide.


The ministers, meeting in Brussels, are also due to back separate
plans to harmonise payments rules across the 27-nation bloc and
ease restrictions on cross-border banking mergers.


The EU's finance chiefs have not had a huddle since global stock
markets took a beating at the end of February after a nine-
percent dive in Chinese stocks and amid growing concerns about
the health of the US economy.


Although the European economy was not the source of the jitters,
concerns arose in the wake of the market turbulence that it could
suffer knock-on effects from a slowdown elsewhere, especially in
the United States.


In a study prepared for the ministers, the European Commission
said "the recent turbulence in global equity markets was too
limited to have impacted significantly on the aggregate euro area
or EU economic performance."


The market rout triggered a rise in the value of the Japanese yen
against the euro, something the eurozone ministers had previously
been calling for but with little result.


The European Union's executive arm is forecasting that the
combined economy of the 13 nations sharing the euro will slow
this year to 2.4 percent growth from 2.6 percent last year.


The risks to that forecast have long included the impact of
rising interest rates, an oil price spike and a surge in the
euro, but the growing prospect of a significant slowdown in the
United States has cast a new cloud over the outlook.


UBS economists said in a research note that while the European
economy would likely resist a US slowdown, it would not be
completely immune either.


"We remain positive on European growth, but would not look for a
complete decoupling from US economic developments," they said.


After eurozone ministers share their thoughts about their bloc's
economic outlook on Monday evening, they are to widen the
discussion on Tuesday when they will be joined by counterparts
from the EU's 14 other member states.


But the focus on Tuesday will be the expected approval of plans
to allow individuals and businesses to use payment cards and make
bank transfers across the EU under the same terms as in their
home country from next year.


"This text will have a real impact, it will allow Europeans to
use the same payment means in all of the EU countries," a French
diplomat said.


The other focus will be on plans to make it easier for European
banks to carry out cross border mergers, which is currently a hot
topic with Barclays seeking to tie up with Abn Amro and ING
reported to be seeking a Belgian partner.


The ministers are expected to approve proposals to tighten rules
on central banks' authority over bank mergers after the Italian
and Polish central banks were widely seen as having used their
powers to discourage foreign takeovers.


If the ministers back the proposals, central banks would only be
able to review banking merger deals according to the buyer's
reputation, financial health, the reputation and experience of
the new company's management, respect of EU rules and risks of
money-laundering or terror financing.


They would also have only 30 days instead of three months to
examine such deals and they would be able to suspend a proposed
tie-up only once.

