

India and the United States held crucial talks here Monday on
sales of civilian nuclear reactors and technology to power growth
in Asia's fourth largest economy, officials said.


The discussions are aimed at hammering out the finer details of a
broader pact on nuclear cooperation struck last year and "to iron
out key differences," said an Indian official, who did not want
to be named.


A spokesman for the United States' embassy in New Delhi said the
discussions would continue through the week.


"They had an initial meeting yesterday (Sunday) and are
continuing talks today. Both sides are hoping to make progress on
key issues," he said.


The US team is led by Richard Stratford, director of the office
of Nuclear Energy, Safety and Security in the US State
Department, while the Indian side is headed by senior foreign
ministry official Gayatri Kumar.


Differences between India and the United States persist over the
re-processing of spent fuel and the assurance of a constant
supply of atomic fuel even in the event of New Delhi testing
nuclear weapons.


The India-US civilian nuclear energy deal is the centrepiece of
India's new relationship with Washington after decades of Cold
War tensions and is part of the energy import-dependent nation's
bid to increase its fuel sources to sustain its booming economy.


New Delhi agreed to separate its civilian and military reactors
in exchange for Washington and other members of the Nuclear
Suppliers Group (NSG) -- which controls the sale of atomic
equipment and technology -- selling India plants, fuel and know-
how.


Last year, the US Congress gave its go-ahead to the deal allowing
Washington to start talks on the bilateral agreement aimed at
amending a section of the 1954 US Atomic Energy Act.


The amendment will enable the United States to sell civilian
nuclear technology to India, which is not a signatory to the
nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty and which tested atomic weapons
in 1998.


Once concluded, the "123 agreement" will need to be passed by the
US Congress.


New Delhi also needs the "123 agreement" in place before it can
negotiate a bilateral deal with the International Atomic Energy
Agency on inspections of nuclear plants that India has designated
as civilian units.

