

As far as Kobe Bryant is concerned, the important streak is still
on.


Bryant scored 43 points and got plenty of help from his
supporting cast Sunday as the Lakers defeated the Golden State
Warriors 115-113 in a National Basketball Association contest.


Bryant's streak of consecutive games of 50 points or more ended
at four, but he was more concerned that the Lakers' winning
streak was stretched to five.


"The key for us, this is our fifth straight win," Bryant said.


"It was was fun for us as a team, the team was energized," he
added of his run of 50-point games, which saw him join Wilt
Chamberlain as the only players to string together four such
performances.


"We've just got to keep on rolling now," Bryant said. "That's the
important thing. It energized us as a team. We picked up from
that and haven't looked back since."


Lamar Odom added 24 points and a career-high 19 rebounds, while
Rony Turiaf added offense and energy off the bench as the Lakers
improved to 38-32 and moved two games ahead of Denver for fifth
place in the Western Conference playoff race.


It looked like Bryant was headed toward a fifth straight 50-point
outburst when he scored nine points in the first two minutes and
finished the first quarter with 17.


But the Warriors regrouped, chipped away and used a 13-2 run in
the third quarter to forge a 78-71 lead with 6:13 remaining in
the session.


However, it was the Lakers' turn in the fourth quarter. Turiaf
scored six points and capped a 14-0 run with a lefthanded layup
to give the Lakers a 104-98 edge with five minutes left.


After Bryant missed the second of two free throws for a 112-110
lead with 20 seconds left, Odom corralled the offensive rebound,
got fouled and converted two free throws two seconds later.


Stephen Jackson knocked down a 3-pointer with 1.9 seconds
remaining to cut the Warriors' deficit to 114-113. But after
Bryant split a pair from the line again, Al Harrington's long
3-point attempt missed.


Turiaf added five rebounds and a key block on Monte Ellis' drive
with 45 seconds left and Los Angeles clinging to a 110-107 lead.
His efforts helped overcome 25 turnovers.

