

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates sits down every night to
perform a painful but necessary ritual: writing to the families
of US servicemembers killed in Iraq or Afghanistan.


He reviews a sheet of information on how each soldier died and
then hand writes a personal note on each typed letter of
condolence.


"It is a small gesture to the families ... that I personally very
much care and have great sorrow over the sacrifice that their son
or daughter or husband or wife has made," he said last week.


With small gestures like that, Gates is changing the tone at the
top at the Pentagon and quietly setting himself apart from his
successor, Donald Rumsfeld, who once got into trouble for having
condolence letters signed with an autopen.


Where Rumsfeld was combative and derisive in the face of
criticism, Gates has been candid about military failings and made
a point of treating his political opponents with disarming
courtesy and respect.


He has mended fences with a Democratic-controlled Congress,
assured allies he doesn't divide Europe between "old" and "new,"
and has been firm but correct in dealing with the military.


And if his polite, soft-spoken manner had raised doubts about his
toughness, the former CIA director put that to rest this month
when he abruptly sacked his civilian army secretary over the
scandalous care of wounded soldiers at the army's Walter Reed
Medical Center.


Two top generals also lost their jobs in a swift burst of
political bloodletting that contrasted with the military's
failure to hold higher ups to account in the 2004 Abu Ghraib
prison abuse scandal.


Gates thanked the press for exposing the treatment and personally
went to Walter Reed to vow to hold accountable those responsible
up and down the chain of command.


"I am so glad you went out there and spoke out," Senator Patrick
Leahy, a Democrat, told Gates. "You deserve high praise for doing
that. Because until you did that, there was a lot of C.Y.A.
(cover your ass) going on out there."


But it is still unclear what mark Gates has made on President
George W. Bush's policies since taking office in December 18
following Rumsfeld's sudden ouster.


"In terms of policy, one of his things is to keep his mouth shut.
To work quietly," said Robert Hunter, a former US ambassador to
NATO. "You don't see his fingerprints because he's not out there
beating the drum."


Nevertheless, he has presided over a surge in US forces in Iraq
to try to rescue the US mission there and announced plans to
increase the size of the army and marine corps to ease the
strains on US ground forces -- things Rumsfeld long resisted.


While the new Iraq strategy appears to be the work of General
David Petraeus, the new US commander in Iraq, Gates has supported
it and promised him the forces he needs to accomplish the task.


But he also told lawmakers he could envision "repositioning" US
forces there to get them out of harm's way if the surge fails.


"We clearly are hoping it will succeed, planning for it to
succeed, allocating the resources for it to succeed," he told a
Senate Armed Services Committee in early February.


"But I would tell you that I think I would be irresponsible if I
weren't thinking about what the alternatives might be if that
didn't happen," he said.


Gates, who had been out of government since 1993, arrived with a
reputation as both a pragmatist and a hawk in the Republican
administrations of presidents Ronald Reagan and the elder George
Bush.


He had followed Iraq from the outside as a member of the Iraq
Study Group led by former secretary of state James Baker and
former representative Lee Hamilton.


But when Bush asked him to replace Rumsfeld, he dropped out of
the group and did not take part in its recommendations that most
US combat forces be withdrawn from Iraq by the first quarter of
2008.


He appears more in synch with the group's call for engaging Iran
and Syria. With little fanfare, he moved a second aircraft
carrier into the Gulf, but followed that with repeated public
assurances that the United States has no plan to attack Iran.


Hunter sees these moves and the surge as part of a broader
strategy shift that predates Gates.


"It was done only nano seconds after he was in office, so I can't
believe it was his influence," said Hunter of the surge. "No
secretary is going to come and do something like that until he's
got the reins in his hands."


Michael O'Hanlon, an expert at the Brookings Institute, said
Gates has handled himself well so far on the big issues.


"But of course you can't get away from the fact that his tenure
will rise or fall with how things turn out in Iraq," he said.
"And if the surge fails, and if he is unwilling to recognize
that, or react to that, it will be hard to conclude he has had a
successful tenure."

