

Chinese President Hu Jintao said preparations are on track for a
"high-level" Beijing Olympics in 2008 ahead of Tuesday's 500-day
countdown to the showcase event.


"The Chinese government pays great attention to the Beijing
Olympics," Hu was quoted as saying by Xinhua news agency on
Sunday.


"We believe, through our efforts, we can host a special and high-
level Olympic Games."


Planning was on schedule including construction of venues,
organisation of sports events, cultural activities, security
planning and preparations for media services, he said.


The highlight of activities for Tuesday's activities will be the
unveiling of the 2008 Olympic medals at Beijing's Capital Museum,
organisers said.


Gold, silver, and bronze medals specially minted for the 2008
Games will be put on show for the first time from Tuesday at the
museum in a ceremony to be broadcast live on state television.


Countdown celebrations began on Sunday with mass events for local
residents including a walking race in a city park and a run
through the city starting from central Tiananmen square.


"Both attracted tens of thousands of people who were keen to show
their enthusiasm for the games by running or walking their way
around the capital," the China Daily newspaper said.


Other events coming up include Tuesday's launch of a publicity
campaign about the Olympics by sports and entertainment
personalities at Beijing's National Museum.


On Monday, live television will broadcast an award ceremony for
outstanding volunteers working for the Olympics and also feature
countdown coverage from other Chinese cities and Vancouver, which
hosts the next winter games in 2010 as well as London, host of
the 2012 summer Games, organisers said.


A total of 40 sports and cultural activities are be arranged
across the capital to mark the countdown, the China Daily said.


Education work is an important part of games preparations and
organisers last week began sending publicity material to 400,000
schools in China containing information concerning the Olympics.

