

A Thai zoo has put a young but sexually inactive male giant panda
on an intensive mating course that includes daily pornographic
videos and a low-carb diet, a zoo official said Monday.


The Chiang Mai zoo in northern Thailand has been struggling to
make its star residents, six-year-old Chuang Chuang and his five-
year-old partner Lin Hui, mate since the pair arrived on a
10-year loan from China in 2003.


"We sought expert opinions from China and have been closely
monitoring their behaviour," said Kannikar Nimtragul, a
veterinarian at the zoo.


The latest attempt was an intensive sex course in which Chuang
Chuang had to watch the 15-minute porn videos every day during
the past week, Kannikar said.


His keepers hope to warm him up before next week, when his
partner will be fertile and could be impregnated.


"We had to educate Chuang Chuang about how to mate. He showed
some interest in the sounds of the video, but not really the
footage," she said, but added that she was hopeful that Chuang
Chuang might turn the practice into action.


Apart from the video, the 150 kilogram (330 pound) male had to
undergo a low- carb diet because he was too heavy to mate with
Lin Hui, who weighs 110 kilograms (242 pounds).


Chuang Chuang has lost seven kilograms, a level the zoo said
would make Lin Hui feel more comfortable about mating, Kannikar
said.


"After losing weight, Chuang Chuang is becoming more active, and
we expect Chuang Chuang and Lin Hui to mate within the next 10
days," she said. "We are hoping that they will mate this time."


The two have been separated since December, in the hope absence
will make their hearts grow fonder, the zoo said.


Giant pandas, notorious for their low sex drive, are among the
world's most endangered animals.


Chiang Mai held an elaborate, traditional Chinese wedding for the
couple in 2005 in the hope of encouraging them to procreate, and
is considering bringing in a snow machine to help recreate a
mountainous habitat.


Nearly 1,600 pandas in China are believed to survive in the wild
and around 180 are being raised in captivity in zoos worldwide.

