

Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger rebels, until now best known for their
signature suicide bombings, took their separatist campaign to a
new level Monday with their first ever air raid.


Their aircraft may be small in size and number, but the daring
night-time bombing mission on a key air force base beside Sri
Lanka's only international airport strikes a significant
psychological blow.


Not only did the Tigers operate two aircraft out of a secret base
and bomb the well-guarded military airfield, they also managed to
bring them home again before the air force's superior warplanes
could shoot them down.


"The damage by this attack is not that much, but the
psychological impact they have created is huge," said freelance
defence columnist Namal Perera.


"You don't hear of guerrilla groups operating aircraft like this
anywhere else."


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) said their first ever
airborne attack was carried out by two light fixed-wing aircraft
against the Katunayake air base where the military's supersonic
aircraft fleet is located.


"We will carry out more attacks like this to prevent the air
force from bombing civilians," LTTE spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan
told AFP shortly after the pre- dawn attack, which temporarily
forced the closure of the adjoining international airport north
of the capital Colombo.


The attack came almost a year after Sri Lanka's military bombed
the Tigers' clandestine airfield at Iranamadu, about 250
kilometres from Katunayake.


Military officials privately admit the latest attack was a major
breach of security and could also affect future operations
against the Tigers, who are campaigning for an independent Tamil
homeland.


Sri Lanka's military usually carries out its attacks during
daylight hours with night flying severely restricted, but the
Tigers staged their raid under cover of darkness.


Officials said the guerrillas avoided being intercepted by
several military planes which took off in pursuit.


Monday's attack was the first public demonstration of the Tigers'
air power although they had been hinting of an air wing for the
past 10 years.


Media reports had speculated they were using two or more small
fixed-wing planes specially modified to carry a payload of bombs.


Authorities had been expecting any attack to be a kamikaze-style
suicide mission. Last year, the government warned that the
Tigers' "illegal aviation facility" posed a threat to the entire
region.


The LTTE also operates a sea-going wing known as the Sea Tigers,
a "navy" that is a rarity among the world's guerrilla forces.


The Black Sea Tigers, or the suicide wing of the seaborne arm of
the LTTE, have boasted that the Al-Qaeda militants who bombed the
USS Cole in October 2000 off Yemen were inspired by them.


The guerrillas have recently lost a considerable amount of
territory in the island's east and a pro-rebel website said the
Tiger air attack was aimed at pre-empting a fresh military
onslaught against them.


More than 60,000 people have died in the LTTE's drawn out
campaign for an independent state for the island's ethnic Tamil
minority.


The LTTE was formed by Velupillai Prabhakaran, a rather shy
school dropout who built the grouyp up from scratch with a
handful of young men in 1972 and a couple of rusty pistols.


A low-intensity conflict erupted into full-scale war in 1983
after bloody anti- Tamil rioting following the rebels' biggest
attack to date when they blew up 13 soldiers.

