

Pakistani police arrested around 450 political workers ahead of
planned protests Monday against President Pervez Musharraf's
removal of the nation's top judge, opposition leaders said.


Military ruler Musharraf, facing the biggest crisis of his eight
years in power, is keen to avoid a repeat of the riots that
erupted soon after he suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry on March 9.


Police raids began on Saturday night and continued into the early
hours of Monday in the eastern city of Lahore and other places in
central Punjab province.


Most of the detainees were from the Pakistan People's Party of
former prime minister Benazir Bhutto and a faction of the
Pakistan Muslim League party of Nawaz Sharif, another former
premier.


"They have detained around 450 people so far," Pakistan People's
Party general secretary Chaudhry Ghulam Abbas told AFP. On Sunday
party officials said about 100 were arrested.


A Punjab provincial government official said authorities had
issued detention orders for 70 people including some politicians
and lawyers. "We have not yet compiled the data of the
detainees," the official said.


Lahore police chief Malik Muhammad Iqbal said more than 4,000
policemen would be on guard in the city on Monday. Special squads
have been created to monitor "miscreants" while police commandos
are also on duty.


There was also a ban on gatherings in Lahore and "offenders will
be arrested on the spot and dealt (with) sternly under the law,"
state media reported.


In the central city of Multan, police raided a multi-party
meeting on Sunday and bundled more than 30 people into waiting
vans, television footage showed. Some elderly party workers were
later released, opposition leaders said.


Lawyers observed a complete strike in Multan and boycotted courts
on Monday.


Musharraf late Sunday urged opposition parties not to extract
"political mileage" from what he said was a purely constitutional
matter, a government statement said.


Pakistan swore in a new acting chief justice, Hindu Judge Rana
Bhagwandas, on Saturday. Bhagwandas will head up the Supreme
Judicial Council, a panel of judges that is due to hear charges
against Chaudhry on April 3.


Eight judges and a deputy attorney general have already resigned
in protest at the allegations, which include that Chaudhry
unfairly gained promotions for his son. Chaudhry denies the
claims.


Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters in
Islamabad on March 16. They also ransacked the offices of a
private television station, prompting Musharraf to issue a public
apology.

