

Fearing Kosovo's independence, Serb refugees have begun exhuming
the remains of their loved ones from graveyards in the province
and taking them to Serbia proper for reburial.


With the United Nations Security Council set to receive a
document later Monday that is widely expected to lead to Kosovo's
independence, Krunislav Kostic says he could not wait any longer
to rebury his late wife.


Along with tens of thousands of other Serbs, Kostic fled Kosovo
eight years ago at the end of the 1998-1999 conflict between Serb
and ethnic Albanian forces.


Fearing reprisal attacks from Albanian extremists, Kostic and his
two sons sold their Pristina apartment to find shelter in the
Belgrade municipality of Mladenovac.


The only family member left behind was his wife Stana, who died a
month before NATO launched an air war in March 1999 against
Belgrade aimed at halting its crackdown on the province's
Albanians.


Kostic, 73, decided to shift her remains from an Orthodox
cemetery in Pristina in order to ensure he could continue visits
to her gravesite.


"I couldn't leave her behind. We had a great marriage and I
wanted to have her close to me," Kostic told AFP.


"She has been in my thoughts since I left. Now, as I move her, I
feel a great relief. It was my biggest worry and my biggest wish
at the same time," he said with tears in his eyes.


The UN refugee agency (UNHCR) in Pristina estimates more than
200,000 people, mostly Serbs, have fled Kosovo since 1999,
finding shelter in Serbia proper.


The transfer of remains from Kosovo to Serbia has increased in
recent weeks at the end of fruitless negotiations about the
disputed province's future status.


In the absence of an agreement, the UN Security Council will
consider special envoy Martti Ahtisaari's proposals that offer
the province self-rule and the protection of minorities.


But this is trusted by few of Kosovo's remaining 100,000 Serbs.


In 2006, the remains of six Serbs were relocated from the
Pristina cemetery. But, in the first two months of this year,
three coffins have been transferred to Serbia.


On the day that the remains of Kostic's wife were excavated,
there was a semblance of cooperation between the two rival
communities.


As a local police patrol ensured security, two ethnic Albanian
gravediggers slowly lifted the coffin from the tomb, before
transferring the remains to a special body bag and sealed them in
another casket.


Sali Zogiani, a sanitary inspector in Pristina, said local
authorities had to respect Kostic's wishes.


"He has the right to do it by law. How you can refuse such a
human demand?" said Zogiani as he shook hands with Kostic.


The cemetery, which lies on a hillside overseeing central
Pristina, has been virtually abandoned since the 1998-1999 war.


Only several dozen Serbs have remained in the capital, and Zehi
Kadriu, a cemetery guard said no new burials have been registered
there since.


"Recently, Serbs started excavating the remains, carrying them
out of the cemetery," said Kadriu.


Zoran Radosavljevic, owner of the Scorpion company dealing with
the transfers, said the price for such procedure was around 1,200
euros (1,600 dollars).


"We take care of papers and procedures. Our company has finalised
10 transfers so far," said Radosavljevic, a Serb from northern
Kosovo.


Local media reported that some 200 such removals have been
registered since 1999, estimating a similar number of requests
were still awaiting official approval.


Last year, 23 transfers were registered in the ethnically divided
northern town of Kosovska Mitrovica, where the cemetery is
situated in the part populated by ethnic Albanians.


In the western town of Pec, Serb official Slobodan Petrovic said
such requests were made mostly by families who had no intention
of returning to Kosovo.


"The living ones have gone, now the dead are also leaving," said
Petrovic.

