

The United States are expected to dominate Wednesday's third day
at the Melbourne world swimming championships with Michael
Phelps, Natalie Coughlin and Aaron Peirsol in line for gold
medals.


Phelps is competing for the second of an anticipated eight gold
medal haul here in the 200-metres freestyle where he is up
against Dutch former Olympic champion Pieter van den Hoogenband
and exciting young South Korean talent Park Tae-hwan.


It looms as one of the great highlights of the 12th world
championships.


Phelps is preparing for an assault on compatriot Mark Spitz's
1972 Olympic record of seven gold at next year's Beijing
Olympics.


World record holder Coughlin is favoured to win the 100m
backstroke and her second world title in the event ahead of
reigning champion Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry and sensation Laure
Manaudou.


Peirsol is bidding for his third straight world title in the 100m
backstroke, although Austrian Olympic silver medallist Markus
Rogan is likely to press him.


Manaudou, who has entered in an exhaustive schedule of eight
events after ditching the 200m medley on Sunday, has two shots at
more gold medals on Tuesday.


The French wonder swimmer, who smashed the championship record
twice on Sunday in blitzing the field in the 400m freestyle, will
swim in the 1500m freestyle soon after competing in the 100m
backstroke.


Australia's Leisel Jones is a hot fancy to defend her 100m
breaststroke world crown in the last final after a sensational
spell since the 2004 Athens Olympics.


'Lethal' Leisel holds four of the top five all-time best
performances in the 100m breaststroke and is on the verge of
taking her world record below 1:05 for the first time such is her
dominance.


Americans Tara Kirk and Jessica Hardy will push Jones all the
way, but Kirk admitted: "I have the ability to go faster. What
happens in the lane next to me happens and there is nothing I can
do about that."


American Hayley Peirsol is fastest into the 1500m freestyle, but
the gruelling nature of the 30-lap event means that defending
champion and teammate Kate Ziegler, Japan's Ai Shibata and the
amazingly-versatile Manaudou are in with a shout.

