

Britain was keeping up pressure on Iran on Monday over the fate
of 15 naval personnel captured in the Gulf three days ago as the
row sends out shockwaves around the world.


Prime Minister Tony Blair labelled the group's seizure
"unjustified and wrong" and Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett
lobbied for their safe return in a phone call on Sunday with
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki.


And with tensions rising in the region over both their capture
and Iran's disputed nuclear programme, oil prices rose to their
highest levels this year -- well above 62 dollars in Asian trade.


On Sunday, Iran announced it would limit cooperation with the
United Nations' nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy
Agency, due to a fresh Security Council resolution on sanctions.


"Iran has decided to partially limit its cooperation with this
agency until the Iranian nuclear file is transferred from the
Security Council," government spokesman Gholamhossein Elham said.


The Foreign Office is currently awaiting a response to Beckett's
demand that officials be granted consular access to the
detainees. The eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines
have not yet been allowed to meet British representatives.


Mottaki told a press conference at the United Nations in New York
that the detained group stand accused of "illegal entry" into
Iran's territorial waters.


But Blair has stressed that the 14 men and one woman, who were
seized on Friday and are thought to be in good health, were not
in Iranian waters.


"The quicker it is resolved, the easier it is for all. But it is
quite unjustified and wrong, " Blair told reporters on the
sidelines of European Union 50th anniversary celebrations in
Berlin.


"They were in Iraqi water, it is not true that they went into
Iranian territorial waters."


The 15 sailors and marines, all based on the British warship HMS
Cornwall, were seized in the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides
Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the group was conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations and Iran has claimed the group admitted to illegally
entering Iranian waters.


Press reports here have speculated that the naval personnel could
be used as bargaining chips in the mounting war of words between
Tehran and the West or traded for Iranians captured in Iraq
earlier this year.


But the Foreign Office would not give out further information on
the nature of discussions between the two countries other than to
confirm details of Beckett's discussion with her Iranian
counterpart on Sunday night.


"She made it clear that our personnel were operating in Iraqi
waters and called for their safe return and immediate consular
access," a spokeswoman said.


Iran's ambassador to London has been summoned to the Foreign
Office twice over the incident -- once to meet a senior civil
servant Friday and again for talks with Foreign Office minister
Lord David Triesman on Saturday.


Three years ago eight Royal Navy personnel training their Iraqi
counterparts in the same area were detained for three days by
Iran.


They were blindfolded, paraded on Iranian television and
apologised for their actions -- although Britain denied illegal
encroachment -- before being released.

