

German power giant E.ON raised its offer for Spanish electricity
supplier Endesa on Monday to 40 euros (53 dollars) per share or
42.3 billion euros (56.1 billion dollars) in all, extending the
offer period until April 3.


Previously, the German group had been offering to buy Endesa for
38.75 euros per share or 41 billion euros in total. But at the
end of last week Spanish group Acciona and Enel of Italy said
they were considerting a joint counter offer.


Late on Friday Spanish authorities banned them from doing so for
six months and exceptionally authorised E.ON to consider raising
its terms. And on Monday  the CNMV stock market authority in
Madrid suspended trading in shares in Acciona, a construction
group.


E.ON said in a statement here that it would "exercise all legal
options against the action taken by Enel and Acciona."


E.ON has been trying to get its hands on Endesa for more than a
year, but its takeover bid has come up against strong resistance
from Spanish politicians and some of Endesa's other shareholders.


Acciona became a shareholder of Endesa in September and currently
holds a stake of 21 percent. Italian energy group Enel also
entered the race a few weeks ago and currently controls a stake
of just under 25 percent.


Enel's acquisition of a stake is seen as a concerted move on the
part of the Italian and Spanish governments to torpedo E.ON's
chances of acquiring Endesa, even if Rome and Madrid have
consistently denied that.


Originally, Enel and Acciona insisted that they were not acting
in concert. But on Friday they announced that their joint
interest in making a possible bid for Endesa.


The Spanish stock market authority, CNMV, announced shortly
afterwards that it would bar the Italian and Spanish groups from
bidding for six months from March 29, when E.ON's existing offer
had been due to expire.


In Germany, investors did not appear to warm to the idea of E.ON
increasing its bid, with E.ON shares showing a loss of 0.78 euros
or 0.77 percent at 99.91 euros in mid-morning trade on the
Frankfurt stock exchange.

