

Pakistani Taliban militants clashed with police at a high school
after trying to recruit students to fight in Afghanistan, leaving
one policeman and one rebel dead, officials said.


Shortly after the gunbattle in the northwestern town of Tank,
which adjoins the lawless South Waziristan tribal region, an
extremist hurled a grenade at a police vehicle in the area,
wounding nine people, they said.


The violence erupted when police stopped a group of Taliban from
entering the privately-run Oxford Public School in Tank, local
administration chief Syed Mohsin Shah told AFP by telephone.


"They wanted to go inside in a bid to convince the students to
join them for jihad (holy war). Police knew their designs and
stopped them," Shah said. "They were all local Taliban".


Police said the leader of the militant group hurled a hand
grenade at the officers guarding the school, killing the officer
in charge of the local police station, Hasan Khan.


The militant leader was killed when police opened fire in
retaliation, Tank police chief Mumtaz Zareen told reporters.


Two Taliban were arrested, one of whom was wounded, Zareen said.
The unhurt militant was from South Waziristan, he added.


The school had asked for police protection after Taliban
militants visited several schools in the area in recent days to
recruit students to fight NATO and US forces in Afghanistan,
residents said.


They said the Islamist insurgents delivered speeches to win over
young men and had recruited about three dozen students, while
another 100 promised to join later.


About an hour after the school attack, three policemen and six
civilians were wounded when a militant lobbed another grenade at
a police patrol in Tank, officials said.


Militants recently torched video shops and banned barbers from
shaving beards in northwestern Pakistan, fuelling concern about
the "Talibanisation" of the already conservative area.


Pakistan has been waging a difficult campaign to drive out
thousands of Taliban and Al-Qaeda militants who fled Afghanistan
after the US-led invasion sparked by the September 11, 2001
attacks on the United States.

