

A 102-year-old South Korean hopes Tuesday to greet his son and
daughter for the first time in more than half a century when
hundreds of people from the two Koreas are reunited -- briefly --
by video.


A group of 865 relatives from 120 families will take part in
three days of video reunions, South Korea's Red Cross said, in
the first such links with the communist North in more than a
year.


Among the South Korean applicants, mostly in their 90s or older,
was Choe Byeong-Ok, 102, who would see his North Korean son and
daughter for the first time since the 1950-1953 Korean War, they
said.


The video reunions had been suspended since a fourth round 13
months ago, but both sides agreed early this month to resume
humanitarian projects after Pyongyang's pledge to shut down its
nuclear facilities.


From Tuesday, lost-lost relatives will visit 10 video conference
studios -- one in the North's capital Pyongyang and the other
nine in the South's major cities, including Seoul.


Each family will have a two-hour private video conference, the
Red Cross said.


It said 1,876 Koreans from 279 families were reunited via video
link between August 2005 and February 2006.


In adddition, more than 13,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-
face reunions since a landmark 2000 summit. The 14th round of
physical reunions was in June last year.


But more than 90,000 people from South Korea alone have still not
seen their loved ones in half a century.


No mail or telephone services are available to civilians across
the heavily fortified border between the two countries, which are
still technically at war since the 1950-53 conflict ended with an
armistice rather than a peace treaty.


South Korea has been pushing for the expansion of the video
reunion programme because many in the South are now too old to
travel to the North for face-to- face meetings.


The two countries last week resumed construction of a reunion
centre at the Mount Kumgang resort in the North. Face-to-face
reunions will be held there on May 9-14.

