

The Somali government on Monday sought dialogue with the powerful
Hawiye clan to which most insurgents they are fighting with
belong, after some of the deadliest fighting here this year.


The Hawiye last week made a shaky ceasefire deal with Ethiopian
troops backing the Somali government but the government did not
participate because the Hawiye elders do not recognise its
legality.


Somali Interior Minister Muhamoud Hamed Gulled said on Monday
that the authorities were now extending an olive branch to the
clan.


"We have had some misunderstanding with the Hawiye elders, but we
will talk with them to resolve the problems," Gulled said in a
message broadcast by local radio stations.


"The young men who have been firing rockets into government
positions should come and talk to us about their grievances and
we will address them. We are ready for dialogue and the
government will use all measures to make Mogadishu peaceful," he
added.


Gulled apologised for his dismissal of the influential elders
last week as a bunch of "opportunists who do not represent the
Hawiye clan."


The elders welcomed the government's change of heart and said
they would strive to maintain the fragile truce that has already
been strained by belligerent wings of the Hawiye.


"The government statement is welcome if it is sincere about it,"
said Ahmed Diriye, a Hawiye elder. "We have always called for
dialogue and we have truly said we need peace in Mogadishu."


"We all hope the truce will hold."


The government is struggling to pacify the capital ahead of a
National Reconciliation Conference, planned to start April 16,
despite threats of disruption by hardline Islamists.


Last week saw the some of the heaviest fighting since the
government and its Ethiopian allies drove out the Islamists from
the capital three months ago.


At least 24 people were killed and hundreds more wounded in the
fighting, while suspected insurgents shot down a cargo plane over
Mogadishu on Friday, killing 11 people on board.


Thousands of residents have fled Mogadishu since the start of the
year.

