

The first ever air attack by Tamil Tiger rebels is a
psychological setback for Sri Lanka's military but could cause an
even bigger blow to the island's economy, analysts said Monday.


In the daring strike, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
used two light fixed-wing aircraft against the Katunayake
airbase, the home of Sri Lanka's supersonic jet fleet -- and
managed to get away without a scratch.


Alastair Corera, the director of Orion Fund Management, said the
operation had revived fears of more rebel strikes outside the
embattled northern and eastern regions.


"When there are no events (outside the northeast) people seem to
underestimate the risks that prevail, and incidents like this
remind us of the risks," Corera said.


The attack, which killed at least three Sri Lankan air force men
and wounded another 16, was a sequel to a suicide bombing of the
same air base and the adjoining Bandaranaike international
airport in July 2001.


After the 2001 attack insurance firms slapped war-risk surcharges
on airlines flying into the international airport and shipping
lines calling at Colombo -- traffic declined and the economy went
into recession.


Earlier this month, Fitch Rating warned that Sri Lanka's
international credit assessment may take a further beating if the
South Asian island failed to make tangible progress in settling
its decades-long separatist conflict.


The latest attack may also scare away would-be holidaymakers and
further compound problems for the hospitality industry, which
suffered an 18 percent drop in trade last month.


"It is bad, (but) it could have been worse if the airport was
attacked," Sri Lanka's top tourism official Renton de Alwis said.
"We hope our partners (tour operators) will be with us."


Sri Lankans are already feeling the pinch of stepped-up military
action, with inflation exceeding 20 percent in January. The
government also raised defence spending by a whopping 45 percent,
to 1.3 billion dollars this year.


Private analysts fear the government may have to spend more on
defence this year to replace the air assets taken out in Monday's
attack -- at least two military helicopters were reportedly
destroyed.


Retired army brigadier general Vipul Boteju said the attack would
boost morale in the LTTE, but do little to bring about a halt in
hostilities.


"We will not see a shift in military operations, but this is a
huge psychological boost for Tiger cadres who have suffered
several reversals in recent times," Boteju said.


Defence columnist Namal Perera said the attack was loaded with
symbolism.


"For the first time we have a guerrilla group operating an
airforce. This could be a first in the world," Perera said. "This
certainly adds a new dimension to the fighting. It also shows how
difficult it is to fight them."


The LTTE released undated pictures of their air wing of seven men
in light blue camouflage uniforms posing together with Tamil
Tiger chieftain Velupillai Prabhakaran.


Diplomats said the Tigers may have been able to turn the tables
on government troops with the attack, which could also help the
rebels raise more money abroad from the expatriate Tamil
community.


"There was a sense of euphoria in Colombo that the Tigers were
only a few weeks away from being wiped out," a Western diplomat
said, summing up the mood in the capital before Monday's air
assault.


Government forces had been taking large parts of territory
previously held by the Tigers in the island's east and the
government has already vowed to flush them out of the coastal
region.


Official figures show the military has lost at least 1,050
personnel killed since the latest round of fighting erupted in
December 2005.


The two sides had agreed to a Norwegian-arranged truce in
February 2002, but successive talks have broken down.

