

Indian Kashmir's 17-year-old insurgency has left 42,147 people
dead, more than a third civilians, according to official figures
released Monday by the revolt-hit region's police.


But the latest report, a copy of which was obtained by AFP, did
not include the people who have disappeared in the region since
the unrest began in 1989 and a prominent human rights group
immediately said the real toll was far higher.


The government says between 1,000 to 3,900 people had disappeared
in the Indian side of the Himalayan region, while rights groups
say up to 10,000 are missing -- the majority of them after their
arrest by security forces.


According to the report's figures, which cover the period from
January 1990 to February 2007, some 20,647 rebels have died
during the period, mostly in gunbattles with Indian troops.


During the same period 16,476 civilians were killed, most of them
listed as either being slain by militants or caught in cross-fire
during gunbattles.


Among security forces, 5,024 were listed as killed in clashes
with the dozen- plus rebel groups active in Indian-administered
Kashmir.


The region's leading human rights group, the Coalition of Civil
Society, said the real toll stood at more than 70,000 dead.


"Our figures are based on a proper survey conducted by our
activists," senior group official Khurram Pervez said.


"We will be happy if we are proven wrong," he said, adding that
police wanted to "downplay the figures, while anti-India
separatists want to exaggerate the same."


Kashmiri separatists say nearly 100,000 people have died in the
unrest.


Pervez said his figures included about 10,000 people believed to
have disappeared after their arrest by security forces.


Police in Kashmir are probing five cases where innocent civilians
were detained and killed, and then passed off as Islamic
militants. Eight policemen have already been arrested and charged
with murder.


Nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan have fought two of their
three wars over Kashmir, and in 1999 fought a two-month pitched
battle in the peaks of Kargil, a northeastern sector of Indian
Kashmir.


The figures, however, highlighted a dip in violence in Kashmir
since India and Pakistan -- which both hold the region in part
but claim it in full -- started a peace process in January 2004.


Last year 200 Indian security force personnel were killed in
attacks by militants, the lowest toll since 1992, the figures
showed.

