

Nick Watney shrugged off two early bogeys to post a three-under
69 and claim the first US PGA Tour win of his career Sunday at
the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.


Watney recovered from his early woes with an eagle at the fifth
hole, going on to finish with a 15-under total of 273 - three
shots in front of Ken Duke.


"It feels great. I mean, I'm living a dream right now," said
Watney, who will turn 26 on Thursday. "It's been a goal for a
long time and I'm on cloud nine."


Watney, who led by two strokes going into the final round of the
6.1 million- dollar event, lost the advantage after 10 holes
before regrouping with birdies at 11 and 14 to win comfortably.


Watney's previous best finish was a fifth-place tie last season
at both the Reno-Tahoe Open and the FUNAI Classic.


"I've seen it happen on TV and stuff," Watney said. "I've played
in close to the last group sometimes, and I've seen guys go
through it. But it's more fun to actually do it. I'm trying to
soak it all in. I'm having a blast and I'm very happy."


Watney was two-over for the day before holing a wedge shot on the
fifth for his eagle. The shot even drew a high-five from playing
partner Duke.


"That's just the way it goes," Duke said. "When somebody hits a
great shot you just congratulate them."


"I knew I couldn't keep going the way the same direction I was,
so that was kind of a shot in the arm," Watney said.


Duke, who also was seeking his first tour title, carded four
birdies over the first eight holes and grabbed a one-shot lead at
14-under when Watney bogeyed the 10th.


The 38-year-old Duke, whose best PGA finish is a ninth-place tie,
could not register another birdie and fell off the pace with
bogeys at 14 and 18.


The bogey at the 217-yard par-3 14th was pivotal because Watney
had just made a 7 1/2-foot putt for birdie, creating a two-shot
swing and a two-shot lead.


"I just made a bad swing," said Duke,who pulled his tee shot left
and missed a seven-foot part putt. "If we hit a great shot there
it would have ran back there. Just made a bad swing, that's all."


Anthony Kim had the day's best round, a 65, and finished tied for
third with John Mallinger at 11-under 277.


Second-round leader Mark Calcavecchia managed just a 71 and was
another shot back at 278 with Bubba Watson and Chris Stroud.


After being moved last year due to the devastation caused by
Hurricane Katrina, the event returned to the TPC Louisiana, a
course that plays 7,341 yards.


Nearly 2,000 trees were lost due to the storm and a number of
holes were completely under water, and it took more than a year
to refurbish the Pete Dye- designed course.


It was the third straight week that a former Nationwide Tour
player won on the PGA Tour. Boo Weekley captured last week's
Heritage Classic and Zach Johnson on The Masters the previous
week.


"It just proves that it's a great training ground," Watney said
of the Nationwide Tour. "It's just a great way to improve and
learn and I think the results speak for themselves."

