

Vania King, substituting for an injured Serena Williams, rallied
to beat Kirsten Flipkens 4-6, 6-4, 7-5 and clinch a US victory
over Belgium in a Fed Cup World Group first round tie here
Sunday.


Williams was pulled from the match with an inflamed right knee
but King gained the deciding point to send the Americans into a
semi-final tie against Russia in July. France and Italy will meet
in the other semi-final.


Reigning Australian Open champion Williams, a seven-time Grand
Slam singles winner, and elder sister Venus Williams each won
singles matches Saturday to give the US women a 2-0 edge in the
best-of-five matchup against a Belgian side lacking world No. 1
Justine Henin and No. 4 Kim Clijsters.


Venus Williams beat Flipkens 7-5, 6-2 and Serena Williams downed
Caroline Maes 6-1, 6-4. King captured the third match in two
hours and 38 minutes.


King, admitting she was nervous when the task of capturing a
point in singles fell to her, needed 2hr 38 minutes to subdue
Flipkens - more time than it took the Williams sisters to win
both the opening singles on Saturday.


"Before the match, I was really nervous," she said. "It's a
different feeling when you're not playing for yourself and
playing for your country. It's not just about me anymore."


Any angst was worth it, however.


"The whole atmosphere, clinching the tie was just a dream come
true," beamed the 18-year-old King, ranked 83rd in the world, who
had lost her only previous Fed Cup singles match to Clijsters in
last year's semi-finals.


The decisive third set was a closely contested affair, in which
Flipkens broke King to serve for the match at 5-4.


But Flipkens, who had received treatment for cramps early in the
third set, couldn't serve it out as King broke for 5-5.


"I was cramping all the third set," Flipkens said. "I was
surprised I could play to 7-5. The way I was feeling it should
have been 6-0."


The United States went on to complete a 5-0 whitewash as Venus
Williams defeated Yanina Wickmayer in the dead singles 6-1, 6-2,
and King teamed with Lisa Raymond to beat Tamaryn Hendler and
Caroline Maes 6-1, 6-2 in doubles.

