

Hoe Kam Tak cheered along with hundreds of other ethnic Chinese
as Malaysia's former deputy prime minister took the stage.


"Sure, I recognise him," Hoe, 41, a businessman said. "That is
Anwar Ibrahim."


Anwar was sacked and jailed by former Prime Minister Mahathir
Mohamad, but is staging a political comeback and campaigned over
the weekend for a crucial by- election in rural Ijok
constituency, in western Selangor state.


Both the People's Justice Party (Keadilan), which he advises, and
the ruling National Front or Barisan Nasional (BN) see next
Saturday's vote as a key test ahead of general elections expected
before 2009.


Mahathir fired Anwar in 1998 after he faced sodomy and corruption
charges that landed him in jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was later overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 2008.


That has not stopped him from winning over voters in Ijok.


"I like his speeches, especially his push for reform and against
corruption. The government talks about it, but there is a lack of
action," Hoe said.


"Anwar is an honest leader. All the allegations against him are
not true," said Sri Banum, 90, who met Anwar as he walked around
greeting local traders on Sunday.


Banum held Anwar's arm. "Pray for our victory," he told her.


In nearby Bukit Badong late Saturday, about 2,000 people listened
attentively to Anwar's hour-long speech centred on corruption,
nepotism and poverty.


"We must declare war on poverty. But billions of dollars are
being squandered away. Give a signal to the government that we
want a change," he told the noisy crowd.


They responded with a loud "yes" and shouted his battle cry for
change: "Reformasi (reform)."


Anwar told the largely Muslim voters that corruption is rampant
under the National Front, led by Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi's United Malays National Organisation (UMNO).


"Where is the rule of law? There is only the rule of the jungle.
UMNO uses its power in the name of Malays to exploit all of us,"
he said.


Abdullah says the government is making headway in its anti-
corruption fight, and is stepping up efforts to battle the
scourge.


But Anwar's return posed a challenge, said K. Karuppiah, a member
of the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC) which is part of the
ruling coalition.


"Anwar is a well-known figure. He was not proven guilty. He may
secure crucial sympathy votes at our expense," he said.


A state lawmaker's death earlier this month precipitated the by-
election in the constituency of 12,372 voters. The ruling
coalition won by 1,649 votes over People's Justice in 2004.


Ijok was once an agricultural-based constituency of rubber and
oil palm estates, but is undergoing transition. Many people now
work in factories outside the area.


"It is difficult to say how they will vote," said Syed Husin Ali,
deputy president of Keadilan. The party is led by Anwar's wife,
Wan Azizah Wan Ismail.


At a gathering Sunday night in a Chinese restaurant, Anwar vowed
support for all the country's ethnic groups.


"I am a Malay leader but I will help all races to acquire
economic wealth," Anwar said.


Some Muslim women stood up and cheered as he took to the podium
in the packed restaurant.


"Now give us your vote," he urged them.

