

French editorialists applauded the massive turnout in Sunday's
presidential first round vote, and the prospect of a clear left-
right battle between right- winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist
Segolene Royal.


Sarkozy got 31 percent of the vote, according to nearly complete
official results, followed by Royal on 25.8 percent, to set up an
exciting left-right showdown on May 6.


According to Jean-Marie Colombani, editor-in-chief of Le Monde
newspaper, the massive turnout -- some 84 percent -- showed that
the French had undergone a "democratic awakening".


"People wanted to wipe out the memory of April 21," Colombani
said in an Internet editorial.


He was referring to the 2002 election first round, when huge
abstention and a high vote for the political extremes meant that
National Front leader Jean-Marie le Pen qualified for round two
instead of the Socialist Lionel Jospin.


"What it means is that this time there will be no sense of
frustration on the eve of the second round. People will have the
means to make a clear choice. They will make one, and the country
will discover what direction it has chosen, and what direction it
must now take," he said.


For Christophe Barbier, editor of L'Express news magazine, "The
French wanted so much to have this head-to-head between Royal and
Sarkozy -- between a left in the process of renewal and a
confident new right."


Barbier said that Sarkozy should have the advantage ahead of the
second round run-off on May 6, counting on carry-over votes from
far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen and centrist Francois Bayrou.


"But nothing is decided. Segolene Royal has one important weapon:
the 'Anyone but Sarko' option. We can expect a second round which
brings out all his character faults and ideological excesses.


"In short -- it's back to where we were at the start of the
campaign. Except for one excellent piece of news. The French
voted en masse. The passion of the campaign was transformed into
passion in the polling booths. And that must count as a major
advance for French democracy," he said on L'Express's Internet
site.


In Germany, the business daily Financial Times Deutschland warned
that the two weeks until the final round would be marked by
"extreme polarisation" as the campaign grows "tougher, more
ruthless and more personal."


But it said Royal and Sarkozy did not represent two radically
different ends of the political spectrum.


"To the contrary: the last weeks have shown that each candidate
constantly took on board the populist demands of the other to try
to best his or her opponent. In the end, there may be a close
outcome and a France deeply divided into two camps," it said.


The conservative broadsheet Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung noted
the remarkably high turnout at the polls.


"Apparently the French were fascinated by a campaign that was
fixated on personalities."


It said that Royal had done better than expected while Sarkozy
could be satisfied with meeting his goal of seizing 30 percent of
the vote in the first round.


"With a campaign that started with a liberal tone, then took on
more and more Gaullist accents and at the end leaned sharply to
the right, he exhausted his own voter potential while luring Le
Pen voters."


But the conservative daily Die Welt warned that Sarkozy's early
lead could fizzle if Royal and Bayrou now teamed up.


"It could become a problem for the ex-interior minister that an
anti-Sarkozy front has formed reaching well into the political
centre. Of course there would be an uproar in the suburbs if he
should win," it said.


"But the centrist Bayrou is also among his strongest critics.
Will the 'Tout Sauf Sarkozy' (Anyone But Sarkozy) mood be strong
enough to carry Royal into the Elysee Palace?"


Spanish daily El Pais said that Royal's "only chance to defeat
Sarkozy will be to seek Bayrou's support, but this will not be
easy."


"Sarkozy is still the best armed candidate to enter the Elysee
which does not mean that his victory is guaranteed because of the
powerful rejection and hatred he provokes among some French
voters," the paper said.


"France has again shown that it leans to the right," the liberal
newspaper El Mundo said, adding that for Sarkozy "Bayrou voters
will be key".


"Sarkozy must feel like a sure-fire winner; Segolene Royal like a
winner full of hope," said the paper.


For Italy's La Stampa, "The absolute novelty is the presence of a
woman who had been expected to be defeated in the first round...


"The French will now be able to choose not only between two very
different political options but also between a man and woman,"
the newspaper said.


Britain's The Daily Telegraph, a right-wing paper, wrote France
is "as its people recognise, in trouble -- and this election is,
as the high turnout yesterday indicates, its best chance to turn
things around."


In an editorial titled "France needs Sarkozy" it continued to say
that between the two candidates left, "it is Mr Sarkozy who is
likeliest to embrace the painful structural changes that France
so desperately needs."


Without throwing its support behind either candidate, the left-
of-centre Guardian daily warned that "in getting to the second
round, and having done it so convincingly, she (Royal) will have
scored an important internal victory over her party's jealous
barons, dubbed the 'elephants'."


"Ms Royal will now be in a position to unite her party and
reinstall some semblance of discipline."

