

Voters turned out in near-record numbers Sunday for the first
round of France's presidential election, confirming the intense
interest in a contest set to usher in a new generation of
leaders.


Seventy-four percent of French voters had cast their first-round
ballots three hours before the close of polls at 1800 GMT, a
giant leap in turnout compared to 2002 when total participation
was 71.6 percent.


Some estimates suggested the final turnout on Sunday could beat
the record of 84.75 percent set in 1965, for the election of
Charles de Gaulle, although others predicted it would fall just
short of the record. The next highest was 84.2 percent in 1974
when Valery Giscard d'Estaing won.


Stephane Rozes of the CSA polling institute said the high turnout
-- with final figures to be released later in the evening -- was
a sign that "the country wanted to get back control of its
future."


The battle to succeed President Jacques Chirac sparked intense
debate among voters troubled by high unemployment, globalisation,
and seething discontent in France's high-immigration suburbs.


For months political chat shows and prime-time debates have
dominated the airwaves, as polls showed the election was French
people's number one topic of conversation.


Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, 52, and Socialist Segolene Royal,
53 emerged as hands-down winners of Sunday's first round vote,
setting the stage for a dramatic left-right showdown in the run-
off vote on May 6.


Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing UMP party, won between
29.4 percent and 30 percent of the votes, according to polling
firm projections, while Royal garnered between 25.5 and 26.2
percent.


Around 44.5 million registered voters -- including 3.4 million
who signed up this year -- were eligible Sunday to choose a
successor to Chirac, 74, who steps down next month after leading
the country for 12 years.


In 2002, more than half the electorate either abstained or voted
for the extreme left and right candidates, allowing veteran far-
right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen to qualify for the second round
against Chirac.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, welcomed the high turnout
on Sunday, saying: "By heading massively to the polls, the French
expressed their will not to let anyone else decide in their
stead."


A senior Sarkozy ally, Defence Minister Michele-Alliot Marie,
said on French television the "massive" turnout was "proof that
the French people are interested in politics, provided we tackle
the subjects they care about."


In Royal's camp, the Socialist former economy minister Dominique
Strauss-Kahn said the turnout was a sign of "hope for change" --
and called for left-wing voters to rally around the Socialist in
round two.


Queues formed outside polling stations in the capital and other
major cities throughout the day, with turnouts of 80 percent and
higher clocked up in several regions including Correze, Chirac's
stronghold.


In the Paris suburb of Clichy-sous-Bois, the starting point of
the 2005 riots, participation by midday was one third higher than
five years ago with young people turning out in high numbers.

