

A modernized oil refinery is set to go on line in December,
official media reported Sunday, in a shift due to turn imports-
dependent Cuba into an oil exporter.


Overhauled with capital from a joint Venezuelan-Cuban company,
the Cienfuegos refinery in south-central Cuba will meet the
Caribbean country's own demands, and earmark 9,000 barrels of
gasoline a day for export, Venezuela's communications and
information ministry said in a release circulated here.


Vice President Carlos Lage confirmed the facility was set to
start operations in December, the Juventud Rebelde newspaper
reported Sunday.


Lage said the refinery would process 65,000 barrels per day of
petroleum by late this year or early 2008, the paper said.


In addition to its new processing potential, the Americas' only
communist government also is betting big that black gold from its
waters could once and for all eliminate the perpetual Achilles'
heel of the local economy: energy.


Cuban authorities in late March said Havana was optimistic it
could soon see a breakthrough in exploiting major oil reserves.


That could mark a sea change that would see the cash-strapped
regime become a flush energy exporter, with ample funding to
perpetuate itself.


"We are sure. We are convinced" that major oil reserves lie in
the Gulf of Mexico just north of the island, Basic Industry
Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters at the Geosciences
Conference 2007 in Havana.


At the moment, Cuba gets cut-rate oil from Venezuela, its closest
international ally and most important economic partner.


But depending on the relationship with Venezuela's President Hugo
Chavez leaves the Cuban economy vulnerable to any change in that
arrangement.


Yet "2008 is going to be very promising insofar as undersea
seismic studies and drilling in areas of our economic zone,"
Garcia said at the time.


Next year, she added, "the drilling phase in the blocs we are
working with Repsol" will start.


The Spanish multinational is just one of the firms elbowing in,
along with Norsk Hydro, Canada's Sherrit, Malaysia's Petronas and
India's Videsh.


Cuba has divided its exclusive zone into 59 blocs for exploration
and production, 16 of which are contracted out. Repsol has six,
Sherrit and Petronas have four each, while Videsh has two.


Eight more are under negotiation -- four with Venezuela's state-
owned PDVSA and another four with an Asian country which Cuba has
not disclosed. The other 35 are still up for grabs.


Repsol in 2005 was the first to break ground in the area, but the
company determined the crude it discovered was not commercially
exploitable at that time.


Repsol brought in partners in Videsh and Norsk Hydro to share the
risk and to benefit from Norsk's technology, in order to keep
exploring in its six blocs.


While US lawmakers opposed to Cuba's communist regime have warned
drilling in waters between Cuba and US shores could present
potential environmental concerns, some US multinationals are
irked that the US economic embargo is keeping them from getting
in on this potential gold rush.


In 2006, Cuba produced about 3.9 million tonnes of oil, seven
times more than 1990 when the former East bloc collapsed,
depriving Cuba of its long-accustomed supply of cut-rate Soviet
crude.

