

A Turkish court Sunday ordered five young  suspects, among them a
woman, jailed pending trial over the gruesome torture and murder
of three Christians in eastern Turkey, a media report said.


The court in Malatya ordered the release of six other suspects
pending trial for their alleged lesser role in the slaying of a
German and two Turkish converts to Christianity at a publishing
house in the city on Wednesday, the Anatolia news agency
reported.


It did not say what charges, if any, had been brought against the
suspects.


They were questioned for about eight hours earlier in the day by
a prosecutor, who demanded that all 11 be incarcerated.


The prosecution will now draw up an indictment detailing the
charges and the sentences wanted for the suspects in order for
the trial to start.


Among the five remanded in custody are four men, aged 19 and 20,
who were captured at the crime scene, and the 18-year-old
girlfriend of the 12th suspect, Emre Gunaydin, who allegedly led
the assailants.


Gunaydin, 19, remains in hospital with a serious head injury
after jumping from the third-floor office of the Christian
publishing house to escape arrest.


Doctors say his condition is improving and he may be fit for
questioning within several days.


The murders were the latest attack on minorities in Turkey
following the killings of a Roman Catholic priest last year and
an ethnic Armenian journalist in January.


The media have speculated that the assailants belong to a
nationalist Islamist cell similar to one in the northern city of
Trabzon blamed for the murder of ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant
Dink.


Four suspects were captured at the crime scene when police raided
the publishing house, alerted by a local who grew suspicious when
he found the office door locked.


Gunaydin, who jumped from the window, had reportedly visited the
publishing house several times and even attended an Easter dinner
hosted by the Protestant community in Malatya this month.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were tied to chairs and tortured for three hours
before being killed as their assailants interrogated them on
their missionary activities.


The Zirve publishing house distributed bibles and published
Christian literature.


One suspect allegedly filmed the murders on his mobile telephone.


He told the police he was asked to record the grisly scenes by
Gunaydin, the mass-selling Sabah daily said.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining six men,
who were detained Thursday and Friday.


Newspapers said one of them was the son of the mayor of a nearby
town from the ruling Islamist-rooted Justice and Development
Party.


The police are looking for seven other people, including a
bearded man believed to have fled the publishing house shortly
before police arrived, newspapers said.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country holds the rotating
presidency of the European Union, said she was troubled by an
"unacceptable intolerance" in Turkey, a membership candidate.


"Everything must be done to prevent a climate that makes such
horrible murders possible," she told the daily Muenchener Merkur
in an interview to be published Monday.


The German victim, Tilmann Geske, was buried in Malatya, where he
had lived since 2003.


His wife Suzanna told the Vatan daily that she and her three
children would continue to live there "until Jesus gives me a
sign to go."


The Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) also condemned
the murders on Sunday, with secretary general Ekmeleddin
Ihsanoglu insisting that Islam was a "religion of peace,
tolerance and coexistence."


He said he felt compelled to condemn the "grisly crimes because
their perpetrators linked them to Islam."

