

The families of three men who disappeared mysteriously from a
yacht found drifting off the northeast Australian coast refused
Monday to give up hope of finding them alive.


The official search for the sailors was called off on Sunday,
with police saying the men could not have survived for so long in
the water, but their wives and children launched their own search
on Monday.


Police began an extensive air and sea search for the men on
Thursday after the catamaran was found drifting near the Great
Barrier Reef, with engines running and a table laid for a meal
but no one aboard.


The three men, skipper Derek Batten, 56, and brothers Peter and
James Tunstead, aged 69 and 63, have been described by their
families as experienced and cautious sailors whose disappearance
is incomprehensible.


Peter Tunstead's daughter Donna said her father was meticulous
about safety at sea and she believed he was still alive.


"There is not an 'i' he doesn't dot or a 't' he doesn't cross --
everything was planned," she told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.


"I just don't know what's happened. I know though, in my heart
and in my soul, and so does my whole family, they are fine and
they are safe," she said.


"My dad is going to do everything in his power to come home to my
mum and to us girls. My dad loves my mum so much."


James Tunstead's son Shane Webber said three charter boats would
Monday begin a search of islands in the area in the hope the men
could have swum to safety.


"That's our hope. That's where we're going to concentrate today,"
Webber said, adding he was disappointed that the official search
had been called off.


Theories abound on the fate of the men -- from one or more
falling overboard and the others going to the rescue, to an
attack by pirates.


But police detective inspector Warren Webber said that despite
extensive investigations the case remained a mystery.


"We can all come up with various hypotheses and theories as to
what may have happened," he said.


"But at this stage our investigations concentrate on just
determining exactly what facts we have.


"We will obviously draw some conclusions from that information
and that information will ultimately be provided to the coroner."


Forensic experts who searched the "Kaz II" yacht after it was
towed into port on Saturday confirmed that it had a badly torn
sail but found nothing to indicate what had happened to the men.

