

Standard and Poor's said Monday that it had raised its sovereign
credit ratings on Japan to reflect the government's efforts to
rein in the national debt as well as the positive economic
outlook.


The agency upgraded Japan's foreign and local currency long-term
sovereign ratings to AA from AA-minus, with a stable outlook.


"The upgrade is based on Japan's progress in fiscal, monetary,
and structural fronts," S and P credit analyst Takahira Ogawa
said in a statement.


"Policymakers have been triply challenged to consolidate fiscal
accounts and to restructure the private sector without restoking
deflationary pressure. Our assessment is that they are meeting
the test," Ogawa added.


S and P predicted that Japan's ratio of net general government
debt to national output would stabilise at 133 percent by the
year to March 2013.


Japan's general government debt is expected to decline to the
equivalent of five percent of the country's gross domestic
product in the current fiscal year to next March, down from 8.2
percent in the year to March 2003, it forecast.


The Bank of Japan had also "successfully" exited its zero
interest rate policy while the Japanese economy is set to grow by
about two percent a year for the next few years -- twice the
level in the decade to 2004, it added.


In the medium run, however, Japan faces demographic challenges
and further pension system reform will be needed to cope with the
shift, the agency said.


Japan's public debt is the highest among industrialised nations
after the government spent trillions of yen on emergency spending
packages to try to haul the economy out of its deflation doldrums
in the 1990s.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office in September,
has signalled his first priority will be stimulating growth
rather than the fiscal belt- tightening championed by his
reformist predecessor Junichiro Koizumi.


But his government also plans to slash bond issuance used to
raise funds, relying on rising tax revenue.

