

Lacrosse, baseball, and a nonsensical team nickname "the Hokies"
are the things that are bringing Virginia Tech university back to
life after the shock of the country's worst-ever gun massacre.


Overflow crowds surged into weekend games for the minor sports at
the national collegiate football powerhouse, chanting "Let's go,
Hokies, let's go, Hokies" whenever they could -- and it seemed
more for themselves than the team itself.


The university shut down all activities, from classes to sports
matches, after student Cho Seung-Hui shot 32 in a campus rampage
last Monday that left the staff, student body and surrounding
community traumatized.


But athletics director Jim Weaver said within two days they
decided that going ahead with sports matches could serve as salve
to begin patching the deep wounds from the massacre.


"It's always a difficult decision" to decide when to go ahead,
said Weaver ahead of a three-game baseball series between
Virginia Tech and University of Miami.


But, he explained, it would create "an opportunity for all the
students and members of the community to get off that event of
Monday."


"The community needs something to do," he said.


Football is the main game that defines the Hokies --  a
nonsensical term from a century-old football cheer.


The school's football team is regularly ranked in the nation's
top 20, filling stadiums with tens of thousands of fans, and vied
unsuccessfully for the national crown in early 2000.


"It does take only one football game, and it gets into your
blood," said Erika Henry, a local schoolteacher who was with her
husband and infant son visiting a campus memorial to the dead
Sunday.


"Every day this week has been like a football game," her husband
Bryan added, referring to the intense Hokie community feeling
sparked by the massacre.


For many, that community feeling has meant all and more in trying
to fathom what brought clearly mentally disturbed 23 year old
English major Cho to slaughter 27 fellow students and five
instructors, and then kill himself.


During the week's two most solemn events to honor the dead, the
pall was broken when the crowd erupted saying, "Let's go, Hokies,
let's go, Hokies."


Scot Thomas, who coaches the conference leading women's softball
team, called sports the one thing that could help the university
break through the dense cloud overhead.


"Not only were we playing for ourselves ... but we were playing
for a greater cause ... being a beacon of light," said Thomas
after his team finished a two- day three-game series against
visiting University of Maryland.


The Hokies won the first two and barely lost the third game
Sunday, breaking the team's 10-game winning streak


But for Thomas and many in the capacity crowd, it was a triumph
just to be out there.


"There are no other events that draw people together -- and
especially Hokies -- as sports," he said.


Students said that even if they didn't enjoy sports, the Hokie
identity meant the most after the tragedy.


"Whenever games come around you feel a part of something, and
that was important this past week," said David Anderson, a
student from Massachusetts.


But all that puts huge pressure on the players themselves, and
Weaver acknowledged that some have struggled with going back out
onto the playing fields.


And after Friday's baseball game -- which Virginia Tech lost in a
heartbreaking cliff-hanger finish --  the father of one team
member received a call from his son.


"He's been strong all week, but he says he's not doing so well
right now," the father, himself a Virginia Tech alumnus, said as
he rushed away from dinner.

