

French presidential rivals Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal
renewed political hostilities Monday within hours of winning
places in the second round election showdown.


Both staked out their positions after the first round results
were announced late Sunday and were to start a gruelling new
series of campaign meetings on Monday.


With the election first round attracting a near record turnout of
84.6 percent, right winger Sarkozy led the field with 31.11
percent of the vote, while socialist Royal followed on 25.84
percent.


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou came a distant third on 18.55
percent, while the far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen was fourth
on 10.51 percent. None of the other candidates gained more than
five percent, according to final figures from the interior
ministry.


Olivier Besancenot (Trotskyite) won 4.11 percent, Gerard
Schivardi (Trotskyite) 0.34 percent, Arlette Laguiller
(Trotskyite) 1.34 percent, anti-globalisation campaigner Jose
Bove 1.32 percent, Green party candidate Dominique Voynet 1.57
percent and Communist leader Marie-George Buffet 1.94 percent.


The Catholic nationalist Philippe de Villiers won 2.24 percent,
and Frederic Nihous, candidate of the hunters' party, secured
1.15 percent.


The figures do not include the ballots of about 820,000 French
voters overseas which will be published later in the day.


The deciding left-right finale to find a successor to President
Jacques Chirac will be on May 6.


An opinion poll by IPSOS after the first round predicted Sarkozy
would beat Royal by 54 percent to 46 in the run-off, and Sarkozy
appeared confident at party headquarters in Paris.


"My dear compatriots, I want only one thing: to gather the French
people around a new French dream," he said to wild cheers.


The tough-talking former interior minister has promised a "clean
break" from France's political consensus, pledging to reduce the
number of state employees, restrict trade union powers and
liberalise the economy by cutting taxes.


Royal, aiming to become France's first woman president, pledged
to be the champion of those who want to change France "without
brutalising it".


She told supporters at a post-election rally in western France:
"We have a clear choice between two, very different projects for
society.


"I call on all those who believe it is possible to reform France
without brutalising it, who want a triumph of human values over
the stockmarket, who want an end to the painful rise of
insecurity and precarity, to come together."


Her campaign has concentrated on promises to change France
without unraveling its generous social model.


The two will put their starkly different visions to a public test
in a face-to- face televised debate on May 2.


Before then, the Sarkozy camp said that the Union for a Popular
Movement leader would appear in Dijon on Monday and Rouen on
Tuesday and have a series of television appearances this week
around more public campaign events.


The Socialist Party was also organising a rally for Royal on
Monday and she was to be in Montpellier on Tuesday and Lyon on
Thursday.


Royal's result was a huge relief for the opposition Socialist
Party which had feared a repeat of the 2002 shock when then prime
minister Lionel Jospin was humiliatingly knocked out of the race
in the first round by far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie
Le Pen.


This time Le Pen was in shock after he came in fourth, behind
Sarkozy, Royal and the centrist Francois Bayrou


Le Pen admitted he had made an "error of judgment" after his
worst performance since his first election campaign in 1974.


Analysts say this fifth election campaign is likely to be his
last, though the 78-year-old National Front leader refused to say
what his plans were.


Five far-left candidates evicted in round one urged their
supporters to vote for Royal against right-winger Nicolas
Sarkozy. They had a combined score of 10 percent on Sunday.


But Sarkozy and Royal will both go all out to court the more than
18 percent of the electorate who backed Bayrou in the first
round.


Though his small Union for French Democracy (UDF) party has for
years been allied to the right, the first round campaign saw
Bayrou veer leftwards.


Socialist elder statesman Michel Rocard has called for a pact
between Royal and Bayrou to form an anti-Sarkozy front for round
two.


France is picking a successor to the 74-year-old Chirac, who has
been president since 1995. Amid widespread agonising over how to
adapt to globalisation and attack high unemployment, the election
has become the latest centre of debate over the country's future.


French editorialists applauded the massive turnout Sunday and
said the prospect of a clear left-right battle between Sarkozy
and Royal was a sign of democratic renewal.


Jean-Marie Colombani, editor-in-chief of Le Monde newspaper, said
the high turnout showed that the French had undergone a
"democratic awakening" and that "people wanted to wipe out the
memory" of Le Pen's success in 2002.


Christophe Barbier, editor of L'Express news magazine, said
Sarkozy should have the advantage on May 6, counting on carry-
over votes from Le Pen and Bayrou.


"But nothing is decided. Segolene Royal has one important weapon:
the 'Anyone but Sarko' option. We can expect a second round which
brings out all his character faults and ideological excesses."

