

Heavyweight hitters Jacques Kallis and Matthew Hayden kicked off
the mind games ahead of Australia and South Africa's potentially
explosive World Cup semi-final on Wednesday.


Kallis is one of four survivors from the dramatic tied semi-final
against Australia at the 1999 World Cup in Birmingham, together
with former captain Shaun Pollock, wicketkeeper Mark Boucher and
batsman Herschelle Gibbs.


All four insist that the experience of playing in what at the
time was rated the greatest one-day game of all time will have
positive benefits in Wednesday's clash at Beausejour.


But Hayden, the 2007 tournament's most prolific runmaker with 580
to his name at an average of 82.85 as well as three centuries, is
not convinced and believes that Graeme Smith's Proteas are
frightened by the defending champions.


"We gained a lot of experience in that 1999 game," said Kallis
who made 53 in that famous semi-final.


"Looking back there are a few things that we might have tried to
do differently so the experience we've carried around for all
these years will probably stand us in good stead," added the
veteran who has 480 runs in the Caribbean at an average of 96.


That 1999 tournament had also seen Australia prevail over South
Africa by five wickets in a group game in Leeds where Gibbs made
101 before dropping a catch off Steve Waugh who went on to make a
match-winning 120.


The parallels with in 2007 are staggering.


Just as eight years ago, Australia have already beaten South
Africa in a group game triumphing by 83 runs in St Kitts on March
24.


Hayden smashed the World Cup's fastest ever century in that game
making 101 off 68 balls as Australia piled up 377-6.


South Africa were then bowled out for 294 for an 83-run defeat
despite Smith and AB de Villiers giving them a flying start with
a 160-run opening stand.


Hayden believes Australia, who have never lost a Test series to
South Africa since the Proteas' return to international cricket
in 1992, have the mental edge.


"Last time we played better than them and you could tell by the
looks on their faces they were intimidated by us," Hayden said in
Australia's Sunday Mail newspaper.


"It is an edge which came from many years of beating them. It was
just body language. You could feel that they could feel it."


Gibbs says there is no pressure on the South Africans who
squeezed into the semi-finals thanks to a nine-wicket win over
England after their campaign had almost been derailed by a shock
defeat to Bangladesh.


"Our backs were against the wall (before the game against
England). Now we're just going to go out there and enjoy it."

