

Hundreds of followers of a controversial preacher who calls
himself Jesus, the anti-Christ and the Apostle gathered here to
listen to Puerto Rican evangelist Jose Luis Miranda.


"I would give my life for the apostle" -- another name Miranda
uses -- said Sergio Ruben Brola, bishop in Argentina of Miranda's
Growing in Grace church, a spreading movement in Latin America
and the United States.


"In Argentina, people give their lives to a football team, so how
could I not give my life to my 'Father'?" as he calls Miranda.


The occasion was a weekend seminar in Antigua Guatemala with
Miranda, 61, once a teenage heroin addict but who today heads a
church that does not recognize sin or the devil, but sees his
followers as perfect in spirit.


The church says it has 300 schools in 30 countries and its
Internet broadcasts claim an audience of millions.


Miranda even worships the anti-Christ, and reportedly has
tattooed on his body the number 666, a symbol of the anti-Christ.


Several countries in Central America have banned the preacher,
citing the disruptions caused by his followers, after pressure
from local churches, Catholic and Protestant.


Indeed, his church meetings, while peaceful, have led to shouting
and pushing matches, when his followers have broken up Good
Friday processions and torn down religious imagery.


"When I left the religious system, I was a marked man," Brola
told AFP. He said the Roman Catholic Church "is corrupt, has
committed genocide. That is why they do not want to accept the
Man, Jesus Christ," Brola said.


Miranda "freed me. He rescued me," said Brola, who recounted his
life as an evangelical preacher for 23 years and was also a drug
addict.


A Honduran man at the retreat, Miguel Molina, told AFP he would
give his life for "Daddy": "He is life, love -- everything I have
is thanks to him."


For example, Molina owns three taxis, with the number 666 painted
on the side, which has cost him some customers, he admits.


"That is part of life," he said. "It is written that we will be
persecuted for our belief in our father."


Another recent convert to Growing in Grace, Abner Murillo from
Mexico, said he left his job of 25 years as pastor of an
evangelical Assembly of God.


"I was not manipulated. I left my reputation and my position
because I was an international pastor. I was going to preach in
Central and South America. I was well known, but these seven
months have been the happiest of my life," he said.


However, not all has been pleasant. He said he was shot while
driving his car, and a bullet smashed his femur. Doctors told him
he would have difficulty walking, and so prescribed use of a
wheelchair for five months.


"A week ago I was still in the wheelchair, but 'father' told me
to get up and I did. Now I do not need the wheelchair. The
doctors were amazed," he said.


"What do you call that? A miracle," he said.

