

The dollar was mixed in sluggish Asian trade Monday as players
took to the sidelines ahead of a series of key US and loc
economic indicators to be released later this week, dealers said.


They said the euro was largely unaffected by France's first round
presidential vote which put rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy in pole
position heading into a run- off next month against socialist
candidate Segolene Royal.


The dollar rose to 118.94 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 118.66
yen late Friday in New York.


The euro edged up to 1.3593 dollars from 1.3590 and to 161.66 yen
after 161.30.


Dealers expect this week's economic data to set the tone for the
near-term, said Yosuke Hosokawa, head of forex at Chuo Mitsui
Trust Bank.


In the United States, March new homes sales and durable goods
orders data are due out on Wednesday, while the initial estimate
of gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the first quarter to
March will be released on Friday.


Japan will see a raft of data and reports on Friday, including
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook, consumer prices, industrial
output and the jobless rate for March.


"It's hard to hold long (buy) positions, particularly for
Japanese players ahead of the Golden Week" spring holidays which
begin this weekend, Hosokawa said.


The market showed little reaction to the first round of the
French presidential election, with positive sentiment toward the
euro still strong, dealers said.


"Players calmly watched the election result but did not take it
as a lead to trade the euro," Hosokawa said.


"Fundamentally speaking, the strength of the euro remained
unchanged and the trend will likely continue for the time being,"
he said.


The European single currency rose to as high as 1.3637 dollars
Friday, flirting with its historic record of 1.3666 dollars set
on December 30, 2004, before easing back.


On Friday, finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone shrugged
off the strength of the euro.


"The growth situation in our area is improving, is robust, is
broadening," said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker
after chairing a meeting of eurozone finance ministers and
central bankers in Berlin.


However European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet
reiterated that excessive exchange rate volatility is
"undesirable."

