

Jean-Marie Le Pen, leader of France's far-right, made a rare
admission of an "error of judgment" after his defeat in the
presidential election probably ended any hope of achieving high
office.


Now 78, Sunday's election was the National Front leader's fifth
attempt at the French presidency and, according to most analysts,
his last realistic chance of causing a new political upset.


He scored 10.51 percent of the vote -- his worst performance
since his first election campaign in 1974 when he earned just
200,000 votes -- and confounded his own feisty pre-election
predictions that he would reach the runoff round for the second
election in a row.


But France has not yet heard the last word from an outspoken
figure once convicted for calling the Nazi gas chambers "a
detail" and who still revels in the limelight.


"I must have made an error in judgement," Le Pen said on French
television shortly after election projections put him in fourth
place behind the conservative Nicolas Sarkozy, socialist Segolene
Royal and centrist Francois Bayrou.


"I thought the French were quite unhappy with the fact that we
have seven million unemployed poor workers, and that we have a
commercial balance in deficit, that we have a debt of more than
2.5 billion euros. Oh well, I was wrong.


"The French are very happy and the proof is that they have just
re-elected -- my goodness, with a very comfortable lead and even
a little more -- the parties that have been in power and who are
responsible for the situation in France."


"I fear that this euphoria will not last long."


The National Front chief, who accused Sarkozy of stealing his
election thunder with his tough stance on immigration during the
campaign, said he would give a speech in the centre of Paris on
May 1 to tell supporters how to vote in the May 6 second round.


When asked whether it was his last campaign Le Pen said he did
not know.


In a speech to supporters later Sunday, he added: "Life is a
series of battles and it is the last one which counts."


"It has mainly been the campaign by Nicolas Sarkozy that was
fatal for Jean- Marie Le Pen", said Jean-Yves Camus, a political
analyst and specialist on the extreme right wing.


Le Pen's authority in his party could now be undermined by the
defeat, along with the hopes of his daughter Marine of taking
charge of the National Front, said Camus.


Le Pen pulled off his greatest moment in politics in 2002 when he
beat prime minister Lionel Jospin of the Socialist Party to reach
the presidential decider.


Aiming to repeat the shock this year, Le Pen had expounded on his
signature theme of halting immigration, which he said was the
cause of France's economic ills and posed a threat to its way of
life.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years and regularly
accused of promoting xenophobia and anti-Semitism.


In 1987, he described Nazi gas chambers as a "detail" of history
and in February, he dismissed the September 11, 2001 attacks in
the United States as an "incident."


At the other end of the revolutionary scale, this was also the
last election for Arlette Laguiller, of the Trotskyist Workers
Struggle. Like Le Pen, she has been fighting presidential
elections since 1974 though this was her sixth campaign and she
has declared it will be her last.


This time she scored a mere 1.34 percent of the vote and admitted
it had been a "difficult" campaign.


For nearly all her presidential battles, Laguiller, who is 67,
has been the only woman candidate. This time she has called on
supporters to back the socialist Royal in the second round in a
bid to block Sarkozy.

