

Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen and centrist Francois Bayrou
were knocked out of the race for the French presidency on Sunday
after battling as feisty outsiders in a campaign that, for Le
Pen, probably marks his last bid for the top post.


Voters chose instead to put rightwing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy
and Socialist Segolene Royal in the runoff for the second round
of France's crucial presidential election on May 6.


"I must have made an error in judgement," Le Pen commented
shortly after unofficial projections were released, putting him
in fourth place with about 10.2 to 12 percent of votes.


"I thought the French were unhappy," said the 78-year-old
National Front leader.


"The French are very happy and the proof is that they have just
re-elected -- my goodness, with a very comfortable lead and even
a little more -- the parties that have been in power and who are
responsible for the situation in France."


"I fear that this euphoria will not last long," he said in an
interview to French television.


Le Pen, who fared worse than his 2002 showing of nearly 17
percent, said he would give instructions to his voters for the
second round during a speech on May 1.


The far-right leader, who shocked France and the world in 2002
when he won enough votes to stand in the runoff against Jacques
Chirac, had repeatedly complained that Sarkozy was encroaching on
his far-right territory with his tough stance on immigration and
law and order.


Waging his fifth and probably last campaign, Le Pen had expounded
on his signature theme of halting immigration, which he said was
the cause of France's economic ills and posed a threat to its way
of life.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years.


He has been accused of promoting xenophobia and anti-Semitism
with his shock statements.


In 1987, he described Nazi gas chambers as a "detail" of history
and about the same time referred to AIDS as "a kind of leprosy."


In February, he dismissed the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States as an "incident," saying the death toll of 3,000
was equal to the number of people killed in Iraq in a month.


Le Pen however maintains that his views, once dismissed as
extremist, are now part of mainstream politics.


He claims that Sarkozy, who has floated the idea of a ministry
for immigration and national identity and has criticised Muslims
in France who "slaughter sheep in the bathtub," is copying his
ideas.


Bayrou, the 55-year-old former education minister won less than
19 percent of the vote, taking the third place, according to
estimates from four polling firms.


Bayrou refused to say whether he will ask voters to back one of
the runoff candidates and noticeably turned down calls for an
alliance with Royal to beat Sarkozy ahead of the first round.


But a member of Bayrou's party, Herve Morin, said the centrist
candidate will "listen" to what the candidates have to say before
asking his supporters to back Sarkozy or Royal.


Almost one in three voters voted for Bayrou and Le Pen, an
electorate that the two frontrunners will be courting in the
campaign for the runoff, re-adjusting their message in the hunt
for new votes.


Bayrou, the leader of the small Union for French Democracy (UDF)
party, had campaigned on a platform that rejected the traditional
left and right divide and called for a unity government made up
of moderates from both camps.


The former schoolteacher was considered one of the smaller
candidates when he started off in January, but six weeks later,
he was crowned the "third man" after his poll figures shot up.


The centrist who spoke fondly of his rural roots during the
campaign won less than 7 percent of the vote in 2002.


Eight other candidates won less than 5 percent of the vote
including the six candidates to Royal's left, according to the
polling firms' projections.

