

China is now the biggest investor in Zimbabwe with at least 35
companies operating in the southern African country and more
investors eyeing opportunities there, according to a top ruling
party official.


"It is heartening to know that China is now the largest investor
in Zimbabwe and her investment now stands at over 600 million US
dollars," parliament speaker John Nkomo was quoted as saying in
Monday's state-run Herald newspaper.


"Currently more than 35 Chinese companies grace our economic
landscape and there have been more exploratory visits to Zimbabwe
by Chinese companies seeking investment opportunities," Nkomo
added in a speech at a dinner for a  visiting senior Chinese
official.


Zimbabwe and China have relations dating back to Zimbabwe's 1970s
liberation struggle when Beijing provided arms and training to
the black nationalist movement fighting the white minority
government of Ian Smith.


The burgeoning ties have seen an exchange of visits by officials
from Harare and Beijing in recent years.


In the latest visit Jia Qinglin, chairman of the Chinese People's
Political Consultative Conference, arrived in Harare on Friday on
a four-day trip.


On Saturday officials from China handed over a 58 million dollars
financing facility that will be used to purchase farming
equipment, implements and tools in Zimbabwe.


Under the deal, China's CAMC Engineering will supply various
agricultural equipment including 424 tractors, 65 dumper trucks,
40 heavy duty harrows and eight bulldozers.


In return for the help with its struggling agriculture, Zimbabwe
will deliver 110,000 tonnes of tobacco to China over two years,
Made said.


The two countries also signed three separate agreements related
to finance, agriculture and education.


The friendship between Harare and Beijing was rekindled when
Mugabe, shunned by former friends in the West over the political
crisis in his country, adopted a "Look East" policy forging
stronger ties with countries like China, Malaysia, Indonesia and
India.


Chinese businesses have been condemned for flooding the local
market with low- quality goods and pushing local manufacturers
out of business.

