

Title-holders Lyon had to settle for a goalless draw at Auxerre
on Sunday, a day after being crowned French champions for a
record sixth time in a row.


Gerrard Houllier's men lifted the title without even kicking a
ball on Saturday when Rennes beat Lyon's nearest rivals Toulouse
3-2.


The record for away wins in one season will however have to wait,
as Lyon, who are unbeaten in the last ten matches, failed to find
a way past a weakened Auxerre who were saved largely thanks to
the single-handed efforts of their goalkeeper Olivier Sorin.


Sorin did well to stop a Juninho free kick after 19 minutes and
two efforts either half of the break from Milan Baros.


There was no let up in the second half with Sorin holding firm
against Hatem Ben Arfa (66) and a Gregory Bettiol shot in the
dying minutes of the game.


Houllier insisted that winning the title without playing took
away none of the gloss, despite a season where they once again
disappointed in the Champions League, and exited both the French
Cup and League Cup.


"This title is confirmation in my mind for what we as good as
achieved with our win over Nancy (last month)," said Houllier
whose side have a massive 18-point lead on second-place Lens with
five matches to play.


"It's very satisfying. Last year was a five-in-a-row record, this
year it's a European (big leagues) record."


But if Lyon's being crowned champions has been almost a fait
accompli for weeks, the race for Europe remains wide open.


Toulouse suffered a double blow as they also lost second place -
and direct entry into the Champions League group stages next
season - to Lens who beat Le Mans 2-0 at home.


And Bordeaux are hopeful of an historic Champions League place
next season after a 2-0 win at Saint Etienne moved them up to
third, just one point behind Lens and equal on 52 points but
ahead Toulouse on goal difference.


Marseille, three points behind Bordeaux and Toulouse, leaped into
a UEFA Cup qualification place with a 2-1 home win over Troyes,
who remain third from bottom.


But Monaco all but ended Lille's chances of Champions League
football next year with a 3-1 home win.


Meanwhile, a double from Portuguese striker Pauleta lifted Paris
Saint Germain to a 4-0 win over lowly Nantes, a victory which
could prove vital to the Parisians' bid to beat the drop.


PSG now have 38 points and coach Paul Le Guen believes that his
side need 43 points to survive, but the Parisians face a tough
end to the season with ties against Toulouse, Lyon, Nice, Troyes
and Lorient on the cards.


Rockbottom Nantes, however, look set for the second division next
season just six years after they won the last of their domestic
titles.

