

Inter Milan have insisted their latest Serie A title success is
legitimate despite the lack of serious competition after the
fall-out from last summer's Italian match-fixing scandal.


The 'Calciopoli' furore, which began after police intercepted
telephone calls made by senior club officials to referees,
resulted in Juventus being relegated.


AC Milan, meanwhile, were allowed to stay in the top flight due
to their lesser involvement in the scandal but with a handicap of
eight points.


In addition Inter were awarded the 2005-06 league title despite
finishing third behind Juventus and AC Milan that season as Juve
were stripped of the Scudetto.


On Sunday Inter retained the championship after they won 2-1 at
Siena and nearest rivals Roma to Atalanta by the same score.
Inter's victory left them on 84 points, 16 ahead of Roma with
five games left to play.


With Juve taken out of the title equation and AC Milan shackled
by their points deduction, Inter encountered few difficulties
this season with Roma the only club offering any kind of threat.


Many feel Inter's title is worthless, but their coach, Roberto
Mancini, believes it's every bit as valuable.


"I don't think there will be any intercepted phone calls over
this Scudetto," said the 42-year-old who was offered a four-year
contract extension by club president Massimo Moratti after
Sunday's championship clincher.


"Everything is in order. This is a valid title, above all from a
moral point of view."


Moratti echoed the sentiments of his coach.


"It's the second title that we have won without stealing," he
said, suggesting that Juventus had cheated their way to the
championship in the previous two seasons.


Despite its questionable worth, Mancini was proud of his players'
achievement.


"It's an immense emotion," he said.


"The squad have been extraordinary. To win the championship with
five games to go is incredible. The team have shown great
character."


All season speculation has surrounded the future of Mancini,
whose original deal was due to expire at the end of the current
season.


But Moratti said Mancini had been offered a new contract.


"We're talking about a four or five year deal, four years plus
the option of another 12 months," Moratti said.


Mancini was delighted with Moratti's offer.


"I'm very happy, but I've said all along that there was never a
problem with negotiations."


Italian World Cup winner Marco Materazzi scored twice for Inter
as they claimed their 15th league championship with a hard-fought
victory at Siena.

