

Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen and centrist Francois Bayrou
were knocked out of the French presidential race on Sunday after
battling as feisty outsiders in a campaign that, for Le Pen,
probably marks his last bid for the top post.


Voters chose instead to put rightwing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy
and Socialist Segolene Royal in the runoff for the second round
of France's presidential election on May 6.


But with almost one in three voters backing Bayrou and Le Pen,
the two frontrunners will be courting the electorate in the
campaign for the runoff, re- adjusting their message in the hunt
for new votes.


"I must have made an error in judgement," Le Pen commented
shortly after unofficial projections were released, putting him
in fourth place with about 10.2 to 12 percent of votes.


"I thought the French were unhappy," said the 78-year-old
National Front leader.


"The French are very happy and the proof is that they have just
re-elected -- my goodness, with a very comfortable lead and even
a little more -- the parties that have been in power and who are
responsible for the situation in France."


"I fear that this euphoria will not last long," he said in an
interview to French television.


Le Pen, who shocked France and the world in 2002 when he won
enough votes to stand in the runoff against Jacques Chirac, had
repeatedly complained that Sarkozy was encroaching on his far-
right territory with his tough stance on immigration and law and
order.


The far-right leader said he would give instructions to his
voters for the second round during a speech on May 1.


Waging his fifth and probably last campaign, Le Pen had expounded
on his signature theme of halting immigration, which he said was
the cause of France's economic ills and posed a threat to its way
of life.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years.


He has been accused of promoting xenophobia and anti-Semitism
with his shock statements.


In 1987, he described Nazi gas chambers as a "detail" of history
and in February, he dismissed the September 11, 2001 attacks on
the United States as an "incident."


Bayrou, the 55-year-old former education minister won less than
19 percent of the vote, taking third place, according to the
projections.


Bayrou refused to say whether he will ask voters to back one of
the runoff candidates. He had turned down calls for an alliance
with Royal to beat Sarkozy ahead of the first round.


"I will not retreat," Bayrou told his supporters, adding that the
7 million voters who had backed his platform had emerged as "a
new force, the only new force in the election campaign."


But a member of Bayrou's party, Herve Morin, said the self-styled
centrist candidate will "listen" to what the candidates have to
say before asking his supporters to back Sarkozy or Royal.


"He is letting the candidates come to him," commented Thierry
Vedel, an analyst with the CEVIPOF Center for Studies on French
Political Life.


"He has a key role to play" in the runoff and could enter into an
alliance with Royal or Sarkozy, said Vedel.


Bayrou, the leader of the small Union for French Democracy (UDF)
party, had campaigned on a platform that rejected the traditional
left and right divide and called for a unity government made up
of moderates from both camps.


The former schoolteacher was considered one of the smaller
candidates when he started off in January, but six weeks later,
he was crowned the "third man" after his poll figures shot up.


Eight other candidates won less than 5 percent of the vote
including the six candidates to Royal's left, according to the
polling firms' projections.

