

Australia will increase its police presence overseas as part of a
150 million dollar (125 million US) strategy to cripple the trade
in amphetamines such as ice, the country's top officer said
Monday.


About 40 million dollars will be used by Australian Federal
Police (AFP) in concert with customs and other officials to
reduce supply from foreign drug labs, Commissioner Mick Keelty
told state radio.


"What the AFP will be doing is contributing to the government's
policy of harm minimisation, harm reduction and supply
reduction," he said.


"And we will be increasing our presence overseas in some of these
areas where ice and amphetamines are being trafficked from."


Prime Minister John Howard on Sunday announced a four-year
strategy to combat amphetamine-type stimulants, particularly the
highly addictive crystal methamphetamine, popularly known as ice
or shabu.


The plan includes funding for rehabilitation and drug and alcohol
education.


Howard said the strategy was designed to combat the increasing
availability and use of ice, much of which is manufactured in
Asia.


"Ice has become a menace in our society, tearing apart many
Australian families and communities," he said.


Howard said more money would be provided for investigating
organised crime drug networks and to allow establishment of a new
team which can be rapidly deployed anywhere in Australia or in
Asia Pacific to investigate drug activity.


The international liaison officer network, which currently has 86
officers in 26 countries, would also be expanded, he said.


Keelty said the government's tough drugs strategy, which has seen
the number of Australians using illegal drugs drop from 22 to 15
percent between 1998 and 2004, had been highly successful in
reducing heroin supply and police were determined to have the
same impact on the ice trade.


"A lot of that will be targeted in offshore manufacturing
countries," he said.


Some 73,000 Australians are believed to be addicted to
methamphetamines and almost one in 10 have used an amphetamine-
type stimulant at least once.

