

Mourners gathered here Sunday to remember 33 people shot dead on
a US campus, as the nation sought answers to why the massacre
happened and vowed to learn its tragic lessons.


A special evensong was getting underway Sunday in the National
Cathedral to be attended by officials from Virginia Tech where
South Korean-born Cho Seung-Hui, killed 32 students and teachers
before turning the gun on himself.


"We are still in the process of grieving, but efforts like this
event today help us move forward in the healing process,"
Virginia Tech representatives said in a statement.


Classes are due to resume Monday at the university in Blacksburg,
Virginia, exactly a week to the day after the 23-year-old English
major went on the rampage on Monday, April 16.


School officials will mark the occasion with a bell toll for each
of the 32 victims timed with the release of 32 white balloons.


One thousand balloons in the university colors of maroon and
orange will follow, "signifying Hokie unity and spirit," the
university said, referring to the student body's nickname.


Amid national soul-searching over the incident, questions remain
over how Cho, whose violent, graphic writings had raised alarm
among his teachers was allowed to remain on campus despite having
been diagnosed as mentally-ill in 2005 after two stalking
incidents.


His family have spoken of their anguish over the killings, saying
they could never have imagined "that he was capable of so much
violence.


"He has made the world weep. We are living a nightmare," said the
statement released on Friday.


And in a spirit of reconciliation, mourners at the campus have
added a 33rd stone for Cho to a make-shift memorial erected on
the drill-field, and which previously bore only 32 flag- and
flower-adorned stones for each of his victims.


"It's a national tragedy and at the end of the day, I think out
of this tragedy, there may be lessons learned that have national
applications," said retired police superintendent Gerald
Massengill, who has been tasked with heading up the Virginia
state's inquiry into the massacre.


"We've got over 4,200 great colleges and universities in this
country. We've got 17 million men and women going to school and
maybe out of this tragedy, we can reduce the risk that this could
ever happen again," he added on NBC's Meet the Press.


President George W. Bush has also ordered a review after the
Virginia shootings which came almost eight years to the day after
the rampage at Columbine High School in Colorado which left 15
dead.


Cho referred to the two Columbine killers in disturbing video
files which he prepared before his shooting spree and mailed to a
US network, and a portrait has emerged of him as an
uncommunicative, possibly autistic loner.


As police probed the killings, commandeering his phone records to
see if Cho warned anyone else of his plans, it emerged Sunday
that he had apparently bought empty ammunition clips over the
eBay Internet auction site.


"My understanding was there were some clips or some magazine
cartridges that might have been purchased electronically,"
Virginia's attorney general, Bob McDonnell told CNN.


The massacre has reignited the debate about US gun laws, with
both sides as sharply divided as ever.


Many have maintained that had any of Cho's victims been armed,
his killing spree might well have been halted earlier.


"This is a huge nail in the coffin of gun control," said Philip
van Cleave president of the gun rights group Virginia Citizens
Defense League.


"They had gun control on campus and it got all those people
killed, because nobody could defend themselves," he told AFP.


Virginia state's lieutenant governor Bill Bolling told Fox News
he believed that a discussion on the federal and state gun laws
would be held, but so far no-one had the answers.


"I have historically been a very strong defender of the Second
Amendment right to keep and bear arms. I still am," he said.


"And to be quite frank, I don't have a lot of time for folks on
either side of that issue right now who want to take advantage of
a situation like this to ride their political hobby horse."

