

Dunfermline manager Stephen Kenny has challenged his squad to
clinch a place in next season's UEFA Cup by defeating Hibernian
in Tuesday's Scottish Cup semi- final replay.


The teams will battle it out at Hampden for the right to take on
Celtic in the final of the competition, which will be played at
Scotland's national stadium on Saturday, May 26.


And an added bonus on offer for the winner of the semi-final is
guaranteed qualification for next season's UEFA Cup - even if
they were to lose to the Scottish Premier League champions in the
showpiece match of the Scottish season.


Last season Kenny was manager of Irish side Derry City when they
defeated Gretna and Swedish side IFK Gothenburg in the UEFA Cup.


The Pars boss would love another shot in European competition and
he has urged his players not to pass-up the chance of writing
themselves into the club's history books.


"It would be fantastic to get into the UEFA Cup. Dunfermline have
only been in one Scottish Cup Final in 40 years so it's a massive
incentive," Kenny said.


"In the 1960s Dunfermline had some great times in Europe but
since then they have only played once when they lost to Icelandic
team Hafnarfjordur.


"I've had a lot of success in Europe, not just with Derry City. I
also had 14 games with the likes of Bohemians - including
Champions League qualifiers - and I believe Dunfermline would do
Scotland justice if we are lucky enough to represent the country
in Europe.


"Qualifying would mean a lot to Dunfermline and I still hear
people at the club talking about games against Valencia in the
60s.


"So there are plenty of reasons for the players to be motivated
against Hibs on Tuesday night."


Hibernian will be favourites to win Tuesday's match.


In addition to being regarded as one of the best footballing
teams in the country the Edinburgh side have already lifted the
Scottish League Cup this season - destroying Kilmarnock 5-1 in
the final.


Dunfermline, meanwhile, are rooted to the bottom of the Scottish
Premier League and are fighting to avoid the dreaded drop to the
First Division.


However, Kenny has managed to instil a fighting spirit in his
squad and they have closed to within one point of second bottom
St Mirren.


Hibs boss John Collins knows it will not be easy but has
challenged his players to add the Scottish Cup trophy to the
League Cup.


He said: "It's a big motivation for the players to know they have
a chance of winning the double - and that is a wonderful
opportunity.


"When was the last time a Hibs team were able to talk about
something like that at this time in the season.


"We are one step away from the final and what an incentive that
is for the players.


"But, it's not going to be handed to us on a plate. We will have
to try and take control of the game and prove that we can do it."


Fixture


Tuesday


Dunfermline v Hibernian (1845 GMT)

