

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates flew to Moscow Monday to try to
persuade Russian leaders to cooperate with the United States on
its plans for defenses in Europe to counter a missile threat from
Iran.


Gates is the latest -- and most senior -- of a series of high-
ranking US officials to join an intensifying debate in Europe
over the plans to station US interceptor missiles in Poland and a
targeting radar in the Czech Republic.


The United States offered to share missile warning data and
cooperate in developing and testing of missile defense technology
with the Russians in meetings last week in Moscow and at NATO,
officials said.


"Basically we outlined a series of areas where we might be able
to cooperate with Russia, and this involves both sharing of
information and potentially of technology," said a senior
administration official who briefed reporters traveling with
Gates.


"It includes things like sharing sensor data for early warning,
common research and development, testing of various components of
systems," Gates said aboard a Cold War-era US air force command
plane that flew him to Russia.


Some elements of the package have been proposed to the Russians
before but others are new, he said, declining to provide greater
detail.


Gates will meet Monday with President Vladimir Putin, Deputy
Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, national security chief Igor Ivanov
and Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov.


"I hope we at least get a preliminary response from the Russians
on what we've shown them. But I wouldn't expect them to have had
the time to do all the analysis to give a definitive answer,"
said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.


Instead, Gates' visit will raise to a new level an intensifying
campaign to gain Russian acquiescence and allied support as
Washington concludes negotiations with the Czech Republic and
Poland on the missile defense sites in the coming months.


The issue will be taken up on Thursday at an informal meeting of
NATO and Russian foreign ministers in Oslo, at a NATO defense
ministers meeting in June and a meeting between President George
W. Bush and Putin on the sidelines of the G-8 summit in Germany
later this year, officials said.


After his meetings in Moscow, Gates will travel to Warsaw Tuesday
to confer with Polish leaders and also stop in Berlin to touch
base with German leaders who have pressed Washington to take into
account Russia's concerns.


The US plans call for stationing 10 interceptor missiles in
Poland and a targeting radar in the Czech Republic to counter
potential medium and long-range missiles launched from Iran.


So far, the Russians have shown little interest in the US
proposals, questioning whether Iranian missiles pose a threat to
Europe and bridling at US military encroachment in areas once in
the orbit of the Soviet Union.


"We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this system for,"
Sergei Ivanov was quoted as saying by Interfax last week. "I
honestly see no basis for speaking of possible cooperation."


US officials traveling with Gates said that while they believed
cooperation on missile defense was in both countries' interest,
Russia would not have a veto on the missile defense plans.


"We don't recognize spheres of influence and the Russians
arguably in my view on some level recognize that a gray zone to
their west, a zone of insecurity and doubt would not be in their
interest," said another senior US official.


"A Europe whole free and at peace where democracy is consolidated
and security is more and more taken as an article of reality is
in their interest," he said.


The proposed missile sites must pass parliamentary muster in the
Czech Republic and Poland.


"I don't think these discussions with either Poland and the Czech
Republic are going to be a slam dunks," said the first
administration official.


"We've got to satisfy these governments that this is in their
interests, and the interests more broadly in European security
and in the interests of a Europe whole free and at peace."

