

A Tokyo court will Tuesday deliver a verdict on the killing of
British bar hostess Lucie Blackman, nearly seven years after her
brutal slaying -- and just as a new case is tragically unfolding.


Ahead of the verdict, her father Tim Blackman visited the site
Monday where her body was found and mourned her by leaving
flowers and drinking a glass of champagne, her favourite
beverage.


"We are reaching a final point," he told reporters. "To come here
for the last time, knowing it to be the last time, is a very
important thing to do."


Lucie Blackman, 21, disappeared in July 2000 while working as a
hostess in Tokyo's seedy Roppongi district, hoping to earn quick
money to fund a trip to Australia.


The murder triggered outrage in both countries, and British Prime
Minister Tony Blair personally raised the case during a visit to
Tokyo.


After seven months of searching, with her photos pinned up on
poles across Tokyo, her dismembered body was found buried in a
seaside cave in Misaki, 50 kilometres (30 miles) south of Tokyo.


Police arrested former property developer Joji Obara, alleging he
lured a number of women back to his seaside condominium where he
drugged them and then videotaped sex with them.


Obara, now in his mid-50s, has pleaded innocent, arguing he did
not intend to kill Blackman. He is charged with abduction,
assaults resulting in death, mutilation and abandonment of a
corpse, but not actual murder.


Japan has the death penalty but prosecutors are seeking the
maximum life in prison for the charges. He has the right to
appeal.


Memories of the Blackman case were revived last month after the
corpse of 22 -year-old British teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker was
found in suburban Tokyo.


Police are still trying to find suspect Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28,
who lived in an apartment where her bruised, naked body was found
buried in a sand-filled disconnected bathtub on the balcony.


Since his daughter's death, Tim Blackman has set up a group to
advise young people on safety when they go overseas.


He branded Obara a "monster" in emotional testimony last year to
the Tokyo District Court.


"This monster has shown not a single tear of contrition, shame or
guilt for the perversion or crime against humanity," he said.


"Quite simply, my beautiful daughter would be alive today if she
had not been preyed upon by this creature."


Blackman nonetheless accepted 100 million yen (850,000 dollars)
from one of Obara's friends, leading Lucie Blackman's mother Jane
Stearne to denounce her ex-husband for taking "blood money."


The payment was apparently intended to bring leniency in the
verdict.


Obara refused to appear when Tim Blackman testified in court. He
reportedly stripped down to his underwear and hid in his cell
between furniture and the wall, refusing to come out.


He first went on trial in December 2000 charged with four counts
of raping other women. The Blackman charges were added later.


Among the other victims was Carita Ridgway, a 21-year-old
Australian hostess who died of hepatitis in a Tokyo hospital in
February 1992, allegedly after being raped by Obara.

