

India have dropped plans to bid for the 2016 Olympics after
failing to secure the Asian Games in 2014, the country's Olympic
chief said on Monday.


Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Suresh Kalmadi also
said the country was unlikely to win a major event as long as
former diplomat Mani Shankar Aiyar was sports minister.


"We thought of bidding for the 2016 Olympics because we already
have the Commonwealth Games in 2010 and were planning to host the
2014 Asian Games," Kalmadi told the Times of India.


"So by 2016 we could have had an Olympics for free, since by then
infrastructure would have been in place.


"But with Aiyar around, there's no question of even attempting
the 2016 Olympics. Now we have to look at 2020."


New Delhi lost out to the South Korean port city of Incheon in
the race for the 2014 Asian Games last week, a defeat Kalmadi
blamed entirely on the sports minister.


Aiyar had said a day before the Olympic Council of Asia voted on
the host city that running major sports events was only one way
to improve the country's image since they did not benefit
ordinary people.


Kalmadi said the remarks, widely published in the Asian press,
cost India the Games, although New Delhi's pollution and
congested roads are reported to have contributed significantly to
the defeat.


"He (Aiyar) definitely sabotaged our bid," said Kalmadi.


"The prime minister supported us, the cabinet supported us, but
naturally they focused on Mani Shankar's statement. Everybody
thought that the government was not supporting the bid.


"We worked hard, but one man was determined to help out Korea."


Aiyar justified his stand, telling the Times of India he was
relieved New Delhi had not won the bid.


"My guess is, by not hosting the Asian Games we probably saved
ourselves something of the order of 5,000 crore rupees
(approximately 1.2 billion dollars)," said Aiyar.


He said the money could be used to develop "organised sports
infrastructure, sports coaching and sports management for a large
population of the neglected 720 million of our fellow
countrymen."


He added: "The minute we do that we can expect to return a
respectable medals tally.


"We have plunged from the height to the depth in cricket and
hockey. We stand in the lowest segment in football-playing
countries. We are virtually nowhere in athletics and other
Olympic sports.


"The honour is being saved by just a handful of shooters, kabaddi
players and the women's hockey team.


"You contrast this performance with that of China, who got eight
times more medals than India in the Doha Asian Games."


Kalmadi said the sports minister's "uncooperative attitude" could
hit preparations for the 2010 Commonwealth Games, which New Delhi
will host with an estimated budget of 1.64 billion dollars.


"With this attitude, it will definitely be hampered," said
Kalmadi.


"I had been keeping quiet for the Asian Games bid. But I am very
worried about it.


"We need to win medals. But the sports ministry is not ready to
provide money for training of athletes."

