

Japan signed a deal Monday to help fast-growing India fight
global warming as the two countries look ahead to a framework
after the landmark Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012.


Under the agreement, Japan will invest in India's energy industry
and transfer energy-saving technology.


It comes two weeks after Japan sealed a similar agreement with
China during a landmark visit here by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao.


Meeting with Japanese Trade Minister Akira Amari, Montek Singh
Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, said India
"understands that global warming is a scientific fact backed by
evidence."


A Japanese official cited the Indian visitor as saying that
"India knows the importance of energy efficient technology and
that it wants to curb growth of energy consumption through
cooperation with Japan."


A joint statement establishes a regular dialogue between the two
countries on energy conservation "through the voluntary
formulation of energy efficiency goals and action plans," the
official said.


"This part mentioning 'energy efficiency goals' shows that India
is committed to setting a target in reducing greenhouse-gas
emission, which the statement with China didn't have," the
official said on condition of anonymity.


Under the Kyoto Protocol aimed at tackling global warming, only
35 industrialised nations that have signed and ratified the pact
are required to make targeted cuts in emissions of greenhouse
gases.


Big developing country polluters such as India and China have no
such obligations, leading the United States, the world's biggest
emitter of greenhouse gas, and Australia to shun the pact.


Japan, the host of the Kyoto Protocol, has sought a high profile
in the fight against global warming.


Press reports say Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and US
President George W. Bush will agree at a summit this week to
cooperate against global warming after the 2012 framework set by
the Kyoto treaty.


A UN report this month warned that climate change is set to
inflict damage in every continent, hitting poor countries hardest
and threatening nearly a third of the world's species with
extinction.

