

European officials were set for difficult talks with Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Luxembourg Monday, with plans
for an independent Kosovo topping a growing list of policy rifts.


The already strained ties weren't helped on Sunday when high-
level EU-Russia talks in Cyprus failed to lift a Russian ban on
Polish meat and other foodstuffs.


That news was swiftly followed by a announcement from Polish
Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski that his country, an EU member
since 2004, will maintain its months-long veto on new strategic
partnership talks between the EU and Russia.


"We do not agree to opening discussions with Russia on a new
agreement as long as this (embargo) issue is not settled," he
said.


Moscow, along with traditional ally Belgrade, is firmly opposed
to UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan for supervised independence
for the breakaway Serb province of Kosovo, and could use its own
veto when the matter comes before the UN Security Council,
probably within the next few weeks.


The European Union supports the UN envoy's scheme, under which it
would play a key administrative and security role in Kosovo,
despite misgivings from some member states including Greece and
Slovakia.


Kosovo, which the EU sees as a potential future member, has been
run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, which was passed by
the Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped to end a bloody
Serbian crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians.


However Lavrov, on a friendly visit to Belgrade last Thursday,
declared that "Mr Ahtisaari's plan has failed."


The shaky EU-Russia relations had already taken a turn for the
worst last week when the German presidency of the European Union
voiced concern over a security crackdown on opposition
demonstrations in Moscow and Saint Petersburg and urged Moscow to
respect democratic freedoms.


There are also differences over a US plan to build part of an
international missile shield in Poland and the Czech republic.


Washington says the shield is aimed at countering threats from
Iran and other "rogue" states.


However Russia does not want its former Cold War foe setting up
military hardware in its backyard, nor in former Soviet satellite
states.


European misgivings over its high dependence on Russian oil and
gas are another bone of bilateral contention.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson went so far last week as to
opine that Europe-Russia relations stand at their lowest ebb
since the Soviet-era Cold War.


Monday's scheduled talks between Lavrov, German Foreign Minister
Frank-Walter Steinmeier, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
and European Commission External Affairs Commissioner Benita
Ferrero-Waldner will follow a meeting of EU foreign ministers in
Luxembourg earlier in the day.


The European officials will also discuss with Lavrov the agenda
for an EU-Russia summit on May 18 in Samara, on the banks of the
Volga. They had hoped that unblocking the Poland-Russia food row
would allow the launch of negotiations on a new partnership
agreement, but now Warsaw has made it clear that will not happen.


The new broad EU-Russia agreement will be aimed, among other
things, at securing a reliable flow to Europe from Russia's
massive oil and gas fields. The EU is also hoping to persuade
Russia to accept rules governing transparency and reciprocity, in
particular in the area of investment in the sector.


EU officials stress that the current, smaller agreement, due to
expire late this year, can remain in place until a new one is
signed.


That is just as well after two days of talks in Cyprus between EU
Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou and Russian Agriculture
Minister Alexei Gordeyev over the weekend failed to persuade
Moscow to lift its food ban.


Russia accuses the Polish authorities of lax and unsafe practices
over food safety standards, and has voiced particular concern
that exported meat marked 'from Poland' may in fact be from
elsewhere.


Russia imposed its embargo in November 2005 but Warsaw says the
ban is a politically motivated move against the former Soviet
satellite state.

