

South Korea's chief nuclear negotiator Chun Yung-Woo left Monday
for the United States, calling for an early settlement of a
banking dispute which is blocking progress on North Korea's
nuclear disarmament.


Seoul meanwhile warned its impoverished neighbour that a promised
400,000 tons of rice aid depends on progress towards scrapping
its atomic programme.


The North missed an April 14 deadline to shut down its reactor
under a February 13 international accord. It says it will only do
so once it receives 25 million dollars which had been frozen in a
Macau bank at US instigation.


Chun will hold talks with his US counterpart Christopher Hill on
"technical issues" preventing a settlement of the dispute over
the North's accounts at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), the foreign
ministry said.


"We cannot continue putting off the more important
denuclearisation issue because of this BDA issue," Chun said
before leaving Seoul with his deputy Lim Sung-Nam.


He said the North's demands on the issue have "generally been
identified" but more time would be needed to resolve the impasse.


"Let us wait and see for a little longer because the parties are
working hard for the resolution."


On Sunday South Korea agreed to resume its annual rice aid to the
North starting next month, but said shipments would be
conditional on denuclearisation.


"As far as the rice issue is concerned, I believe it is very
important to implement the February 13 agreement," Unification
Minister Lee Jae-Joung told local radio.


A joint statement issued by the two Koreas after a Pyongyang
meeting set no preconditions for the rice delivery.


But Lee said South Korean delegates delivered a "strong" message
that there would be public resistance to the aid without steps
towards denuclearisation. The aid must be approved by parliament.


Seoul suspended its rice shipment after the North's missile tests
last July. Ties soured further after Pyongyang's October nuclear
test, but improved when the North returned to the six-nation
nuclear disarmament talks.


Macau's financial authorities have unblocked the BDA funds, which
had been frozen since 2005 on suspicion of money-laundering and
counterfeiting, and the United States says they are available for
collection.


The North said Friday there were "brisk" negotiations between one
of its banks and BDA but gave no indication when the matter would
be settled.


Analysts believe other foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash because it is seen as tainted. They say that
apart from just recovering the BDA cash, North Korea wants to
ensure that its access to the international financial system has
been restored.


Chun is also scheduled to meet other US officials and legislators
during his trip, which ends Friday.

