

Defending champions Italy brushed aside China 5-0 on Sunday to
set up a Fed Cup semi-final showdown at home in mid-July against
France.


The French crushed Japan 5-0 in Limoges as Russia also achieved a
whitewash over Spain in Moscow to advance to a final four clash
with the United States, who brushed off an injury to Serena
Williams to post a 5-0 victory over Belgium in the women's
nations tennis tournament.


In Castellaneta Marina, Tathiana Garbin defeated China's Zhang
Shuai, who was standing in for the injured Peng Shuai, 3-6, 6-2,
6-4, and Mara Santangelo overcame Sun Tian-Tian 6-4, 6-2.


Santangelo and Roberta Vinci completed the whitewash with a 6-2,
6-4 doubles victory over Sun Tian Tian and Sun Sheng-Nan.


Italy had taken a 2-0 lead overnight after Peng was forced to
retire with a left thigh injury giving Flavia Pennetta a 0-6,
7-5, 3-0 victory. Garbin had put the hosts in front with a 6-4,
2-6, 6-3 win over Sun Tian-Tian.


They next face a French side who will be gunning to avenge their
only loss to the Italians in seven previous encounters. That came
last year when Italy upset the French at home in Nancy 4-1 in the
first round.


"It's going to be tough," admitted Italian captain Corrado
Barazzutti.


"The French team will want to forget the last time we played.
They will come prepared to win, for sure. But we'll be ready."


French teenager Tatiana Golovin's play made light of the absence
of world number three Amelie Mauresmo.


The 19-year-old, Moscow-born Golovin brushed aside veteran
Japanese Ai Sugiyama 7-6 (7/3), 6-0 to complete her second
victory of the tie, having already defeated Akiko Morigami on
Saturday.


Much like her previous day's match against Nathalie Dechy,
Sugiyama fought tooth and nail in the first set, which lasted 1hr
13min, but then crumbled in the second.


Virginie Razzano ousted Morigami 7-6 (7/4), 1-6, 6-2, with Dechy
and Severine Bremond maintaining the hosts unbeaten run in the
doubles, disposing of Sugiyama and Ayumi Morita 6-1, 6-2.


In Moscow, Svetlana Kuznetsova fired Russia into the final four
with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-0 win over Anabel Medina Garrigues.


Anna Chakvetadze needed three sets to get past Nuria Llagostera
Vives 3-6, 7-6 (7/5), 6-2 before Nadia Petrova and Elena Vesnina
completed the rout 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 against Lourdes Dominguez-Lino
and Laura Pous-Tio in the doubles.


On Saturday, Kuznetsova and Nadia Petrova gave Russia a
commanding 2-0 lead, beating Dominguez-Lino 6-3, 6-2 and Medina
Garrigues 6-3, 6-4 respectively.


In Delray Beach, Florida, 18-year-old Vania King stepped in for
the injured Serena Williams and rallied to beat Belgium's Kirsten
Flipkens 4-6, 6-4, 7-5 and clinch a US victory over a Belgian
side playing without world No. 1 Justine Henin or No. 4 Kim
Clijsters.


Williams was pulled from the match with an inflamed right knee,
but King gained the deciding point.


Reigning Australian Open champion Williams, a seven-time Grand
Slam singles winner, and elder sister Venus Williams had each won
singles matches Saturday to give the US women a 2-0 lead.


Venus Williams beat Flipkens 7-5, 6-2 and Serena Williams downed
Caroline Maes 6-1, 6-4.


King, admitting she was nervous when the task of capturing a
point in singles fell to her, needed 2hr 38 minutes to subdue
Flipkens - more time than it took the Williams sisters to win
both the opening singles combined.


"The whole atmosphere, clinching the tie was just a dream come
true," beamed the 18-year-old King, ranked 83rd in the world, who
had lost her only previous Fed Cup singles match to Clijsters in
last year's semi-finals.


The decisive third set was a closely contested affair, in which
Flipkens broke King to serve for the match at 5-4.


But Flipkens, who had received treatment for cramps early in the
third set, couldn't serve it out as King broke for 5-5.


"I was cramping all the third set," Flipkens said. "I was
surprised I could play to 7-5. The way I was feeling it should
have been 6-0."


The United States went on to complete a 5-0 whitewash as Venus
Williams defeated Yanina Wickmayer in the dead singles 6-1, 6-2,
and King teamed with Lisa Raymond to beat Tamaryn Hendler and
Caroline Maes 6-1, 6-2 in doubles.

