

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates launched a charm offensive in
Moscow Monday aimed at overcoming Russia's fierce opposition to
Washington's plans to extend its missile defences into central
Europe.


Gates, who arrived early Monday, was to meet President Vladimir
Putin, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov and Defense Minister
Anatoly Serdyukov.


The Pentagon plans to station 10 interceptor missiles in Poland
and a targeting radar in the Czech Republic, countries that lie
close to Russian territory and during the Cold War were under
Moscow's control.


Russia, increasingly emboldened by new oil wealth, has strongly
opposed the plans. It regards them as an encroachment into
Moscow's sphere of influence that could raise tensions and spark
an arms race.


The issue has also sparked debate among Washington's traditional
allies.


Germany has said Washington must work to ease Russian concerns,
while the Czech Republic and Poland have asserted that Moscow has
no right to interfere.


Ahead of Gates's visit, the United States has assembled a package
of incentives aimed at allaying Russian concerns, said officials
travelling with the defence secretary.


These incentives, already presented last week, include an offer
to share missile warning data and cooperate in developing and
testing missile defence technology with the Russians.


"We outlined a series of areas where we might be able to
cooperate with Russia and this involves both sharing of
information and potentially of technology," said a senior
administration official.


"It includes things like sharing sensor data for early warning,
common research and development, testing of various components of
systems," said the official, briefing reporters aboard his plane.


"I hope we at least get a preliminary response from the
Russians.... But I wouldn't expect them to have had the time to
do all the analysis to give a definitive answer," said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.


The United States insists that existing defences need to be
extended to protect against attack from "rogue states" such as
Iran and North Korea and says its missile shield plans are not
directed against Russia.


But Russia has maintained its opposition and First Deputy Prime
Minister Sergei Ivanov said last week that Russia was not
interested in cooperating on the US plans.


"We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this system for,"
Ivanov was quoted as saying. "I honestly see no basis for
speaking of possible cooperation."


Officials travelling with Gates said that while they believed
cooperation on missile defense was in both countries' interest,
Russia would not have a veto on the issue.


On Monday Russia's Vedomosti business daily stressed that Moscow
was not interested in cooperation on the plans.


What Moscow really wants is to begin negotiating new agreements
on limiting strategic weapons, including a renewal of the START 1
treaty that entered into force in 1994 and has a 15-year
duration.


"Discussions on this theme are needed by Russia due to the
increasing lag of its strategic forces behind America's and
because this is the only international problem where Moscow can
look like an equal partner of Washington," Vedomosti said,
quoting a Russian analyst.


After his meetings, Gates will travel to Warsaw to confer with
Polish leaders and also stop in Berlin to touch base with German
leaders.

