

Shunsuke Nakamura revealed he achieved a long-held ambition by
abandoning his usual reserved demeanour and jumping into the
Celtic support to celebrate his league winning goal.


The Japanese international scored with a dramatic injury time
free-kick to give Celtic a 2-1 win at Kilmarnock and clinch their
second consecutive Scottish Premier League title.


Nakamura - who normally celebrates his goals in a dignified and
controlled manner - pulled his top off, swung it around his head
while running towards the Celtic support before throwing himself
into the green and white clad hordes.


During his celebrations with the adoring fans, the little
Japanese playmaker received a sore face, but he revealed the pain
was worthwhile.


"I've never done anything like that before but I've always wanted
to run into the crowd," he said.


"My face is a bit sore now but I'm glad I did it.


"It was probably my most important goal as it meant we won the
league, although the one I scored to beat Manchester United in
the Champions League was also very important to me.


"Kilmarnock were very good and I made a few mistakes so I wanted
to score to make up for them and I'm very happy we are now
champions."


Celtic manager Gordon Strachan was equally thrilled to have
clinched the SPL title and is now aiming to complete a league and
cup double by lifting the Scottish Cup in May.


"I am absolutely delighted we've won the league again," said
Strachan.


"Luckily for me I have been fortunate to have some great players
to work with over the last few seasons.


"We lost a lot of big personalities last year. People such as
Stilian Petrov, John Hartson, Chris Sutton and Roy Keane all left
and a lot of the players remaining have never won a championship
before so this is a big achievement for them.


"It would be great if we can now go on and win the Scottish Cup
as it would be fantastic to complete the double."


Strachan also paid tribute to defender John Kennedy, who was
playing his first full game for the Celtic first team since
injuring his knee in a friendly for Scotland in March 2004.


"We've won the league today but all I keep thinking about is
John. To have been out for three years and come back to play the
way he did against Kilmarnock is unbelievable.


"When I first joined Celtic John was trying to come back from the
injury but broke down in training. I thought he was finished so
to come back the way he has is amazing."


At the end Strachan celebrated with the Celtic fans, who sang out
his name to show their appreciation and he enjoyed their
response.


He said: "It was fantastic to be able to celebrate with the fans.
We even picked out a couple of kids from the support to come out
and meet their idols so that was good.


"I enjoyed it and it's always great to be appreciated."


In Sunday's game Celtic had opened the scoring in the 23rd
minute.


An inswinging corner from Nakamura was met by Dutch international
Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink who nodded the ball past Kilmarnock
goalkeeper Alan Combe.


The home side levelled in the 49th minute through Colin Nish,
setting the stage for Nakamura's injury time winner.


Twenty-yards from goal the Japanese international struck a
perfect curling free- kick into the far corner of the net and
spark euphoric scenes from the Celtic players, management and
fans.

