

Mourners lit candles and prayed for the victims of the Virginia
Tech University massacre on Sunday as the sorrowful strains of a
choir echoed through the vast National Cathedral.


The Christian memorial service in the US capital began with altar
boys leading a solemn procession of university officials and
alumni carring candles representing each of the 33 lives lost in
the country's deadliest school shooting.


As Americans in churches across the country heard sermons devoted
to the slayings, Reverend Howard Anderson told the Washington
congregregation the shooting rampage inevitably would shake every
believer's faith in a benevolent God.


"It is as if the God many of us say we believe in has gone on
vacation, has stopped watching over those for whom we pray,"
Anderson told the audience which included the university's
president, Charles Steger.


The reverend compared the shooting at Virginia Tech to the
carnage of the Iraq war, saying there was no escape from death
even in the bucolic setting of the Blacksburg campus in rural
Virginia.


"Death has come to haunt us, daily, as we hear of massive death
tolls in Iraq, where on the very day of the unspeakable tragedy
in Blacksburg, over 200 innocent civilians were killed in one
Baghdad market in a terrorist attack," he said.


The photos of smiling, young soldiers recently killed in Iraq
"look ever so much like the ones we lost at Virginia Tech," he
said.


But he appealed to members of every faith to avoid plunging into
despair and to find comfort in the Christian message.


"These trying times are the times in which Christians and all
others of faith must join the chorus at the foot of open graves
... and shout 'No' to despair," he said.


Briefly touching on the US debate over gun control that has been
revived by the shootings, Anderson said "we can also have the
courage to say 'no' to those who would allow guns to be sold so
readily to those who might kill with them."


As Christians, Anderson said it was also necessary to pray for
the killer himself, Cho Seung-Hui, whom he described as a victim.


"He too is a child of God, and a victim of the social stigma
attached to depression and other mental illness which prevents
people from getting the help they need," he said.


"We can say a resounding 'no' to that health care system, and
bring mental health out of the darkness and into the light where
it can be treated," he said.


At the close of the service, mourners were invited to light
candles in honor of the victims and their families as a cellist
played Rachmaninoff.


Graduates of Virginia Tech of all ages attended the cathedral
service, wearing the school's orange and maroon colors.


"It was beautiful," said Carlos Munoz, 29, who was accompanied by
former classmates living in the Washington region.


"It's comforting to be around people who can empathize ... people
who know Virginia Tech, who spent time there," said Munoz, who
graduated in 2000 with a degree in international studies and
German.


Tuesday, he took a day off work and drove down to Blacksburg for
last week's convocation and prayer vigil. Despite all the pain
caused by the tragedy, he said: "I have to think Virginia Tech
will be stronger ... because of this."

