

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out an ambitious
environmental plan for the city on Sunday, including a congestion
charge for driving in Manhattan and proposals to plant one
million new trees.


In a speech to mark Earth Day, Bloomberg unveiled 127 broad
policy initiatives to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent,
increase access to parks, reclaim unused industrial land and
reduce water pollution.


"We need to start meeting the challenges we'll face as we grow by
nearly one million people" in the coming two decades, he said.


The pilot congestion pricing plan would involve charging those
entering Manhattan from the north eight dollars during weekdays
between 6am and 6pm if they pass south of 86th street in uptown
Manhattan.


Those entering by bridges and tunnels already face similar
charges.


Special rules would apply for residents, Bloomberg said, without
elaborating, while taxis would be exempt from the fee. The
changes would affect only five percent of the New Yorkers who
work in Manhattan, he said.


"I understand the hesitation about charging a fee. I was a
skeptic myself. But I looked at the facts, and that's what I'm
asking New Yorkers to do," Bloomberg said.


"The fact is, in cities like London and Singapore, fees succeeded
in reducing congestion and improving air quality."


He said the fee had to be high enough to encourage people to use
public transport but no so expensive as to prove onerous for
those who needed to drive. "We believe that an eight dollar
charge would achieve these goals."


"As a test run, we will seek state authority for a three year
pilot project, and we are very optimistic that, in working with
state officials, we will secure hundreds of millions of dollars
in federal funding for it," he said.


Other headline announcements included a plan to plant one million
new trees in the city over the next decade -- a quarter of them
along roadsides -- and to reforest some 900 hectares (2,000
acres) of parkland.


The "street-greening" initiative would also involve cleaning up
around 3,000 hectares of brownfield -- or former industrial --
sites in the city.


Bloomberg has already committed the city to cutting greenhouse
gases and said energy conservation and a shift to cleaner and
more efficient power plants would meanwhile saving seven million
tons of carbon dioxide every year.


"Climate change is a national challenge, and meeting it requires
strong and united national leadership," Bloomberg said. "That
means we can't -- and we won't -- wait for Washington. The time
to act is now."


"The science is there. It's time to stop debating it and to start
dealing with it," he said, adding that global warming could not
be separated from issues such as transportation policy, air
quality and energy use.


New York City has led much of the United States in some public
health and environmental policies since Bloomberg became mayor in
2002.


In 2003 the city brought in a tough anti-smoking law that was
considered by many at the time to be draconian, but which has
been copied by cities around the world.


Last year the city banned restaurants from using artificial
cooking oils known as trans fats, in an attempt to improve
residents' health and help tackle heart disease and obesity.

