

Former New Zealand captain John Wright believes it would be a
mistake to write off the Black Caps' World Cup chances despite
their crushing defeat to Australia.


Stephen Fleming's men crashed to a 215-run defeat to the
defending champions in their last Super Eights match on Friday.


It was the worst possible way to build-up to Tuesday's semi-final
here against Sri Lanka, a side they also lost to, by six wickets,
in the second round.


"Don't write the Kiwis off yet in this World Cup, they are a
resolute lot and know how to bounce back, and Sri Lanka will find
them a handful at Sabina Park," said former India coach Wright.


But there are still areas in the team which are a cause for
concern for Wright and they were highlighted by allowing
Australia to plunder 348 runs in Friday's match in Grenada.


"Being only being able to scrape 133 (in reply) is an
embarrassing performance and not the game you want going into the
semi-final of the World Cup," said Wright.


"It wasn't a pretty Kiwi dress rehearsal. New Zealand will have
to sort out very quickly who will partner Shane Bond (who missed
the Australia game through illness) when he returns.


"Stephen Fleming will be demanding an improvement in the
performance of the bowling unit. (Off-spinner) Jeetan Patel
continues to impress and appears to want to bowl anytime to
anyone.


"In the middle period of the innings, he in tandem with Daniel
Vettori and Scott Styris slowed the tempo for a while. At 257-5
and Andrew Symonds gone, the Black Caps may have raised their
hopes but Shane Watson who bludgeoned 65 off 32 balls exposed the
pretty insipid bowling.


"Watson's hitting power was impressive, but he mixed it up with
clever improvising, and his time in the middle along with Michael
Hussey would have pleased the Australian camp.


"Before the match Ricky Ponting had said his team was excited
about the rest of the World Cup, two big matches coming up, and
they were looking to play even better cricket. Today's team
performance walked Ponting's talk," added Wright in his
www.cricinfo.com column.


"New Zealand recently had successfully chased over 300 to beat
Australia. But with Jacob Oram out and the wicket slowing and
taking turn it looked too much.


"There were few positives for the Kiwis, but Peter Fulton's knock
was one. Ideally Ross Taylor and Brendon McCullum needed an
innings, particularly Taylor. He is young and classy, but
confidence going into a big match is an asset."

