

The powerful US gun lobby, far from being weakened by last week's
tragic college campus shooting, actually has emerged stronger,
gun advocates said, stepping up calls Sunday for a better-armed
US citizenry to prevent future attacks.


Gun rights advocates said that following last week's massacre, in
which 23-year- old Cho Seung-Hui fatally shot 32 victims at
Virginia Tech University, gun control forces will be hard pressed
to make the case for tighter restrictions.


"This is a huge nail in the coffin of gun control," said Philip
Van Cleave, president of the gun rights group Virginia Citizens
Defense League.


"They had gun control on campus and it got all those people
killed, because nobody could defend themselves," he told AFP.


"You want people to be able to defend themselves -- always," he
said.


Van Cleave said the tragedy could give a boost to a years-long
effort in Virginia to pass legislation allowing students to carry
weapons on campus -- especially since existing laws failed to
prevent Cho's murderous rampage.


"Gun control failed. That student under university rules was not
to have a gun," Van Cleave said.


"Come legislative season, which is in January, we're going to be
fighting to get a bill put in again -- the third year in a row
now and hopefully this time it will pass -- that would let
students that are over 21 with a permit ... carry concealed self-
defense," he said.


The bill, which would also allow any faculty member possessing a
concealed carry permit to carry a concealed weapon, has a
"greatly enhanced" chance of passage following the Virginia Tech
shooting, Van Cleave said.


The southeastern state where the shootings took place allows
anyone 21 years of age or older and holding a concealed handgun
permit to carry a weapon.


That is not true, however of college campuses, where most
universities have a strict prohibition against carrying guns --
much to the chagrin of the state's pro-gun activists.


Other gun rights advocates echo Van Cleave's view that had even
one Virginia Tech student or faculty member been armed, last
week's carnage might have been prevented.


"The only person who is responsible to defend you is you -- the
police are incapable of defending each and every one of us all
the time," said Mike Stollenwerk, 44, co-founder of
OpenCarry.org, a Virginia-based gun-rights networking group.


"Citizens have an inherent right to be able to defend
themselves," he said, speaking last week to The Washington Times
newspaper.


"You can't always have a policeman on every street corner to take
care of you. Whenever you have a bunch of gun-control laws that
prohibit people from carrying, the ones with the guns are the
criminals."


Many had expected that the Virginia Tech rampage would be a
rallying cry for gun control activists, but that has not turned
out to be the case.


Even the mass killings at Colorado's Columbine High School in
1999 failed to result in gun-control legislation, despite the
emotional outry over those shootings.


The reaction has been even more muted following last week's
tragedy, the deadliest school shooting in US history.


US politicians have shown little inclination to introduce new gun
control legislation in a country where an estimated 40 percent of
US households own a gun and where for many the constitutional
right to bear arms is seen as sacred.


Reports that Cho's past brush with mental health authorities
should have prevented him from being able to purchase a firearm
is prompting a legislative reaction, however.


US Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Carolyn McCarthy on
Sunday announced plans to introduce federal bill requiring states
to send critical mental health information to the federal
government, which will allow them to screen out those who don't
qualify to own firearms.


US media reported Sunday that a similar proposed bill in
California impose mandatory background checks for buyers of
handgun ammunition, require a face-to- face purchase instead of
by mail, and require gun shops to store ammunition behind
counters.


And in Washington, at a Christian memorial service at the
National Cathedral, Reverend Howard Anderson still insisted: "we
can also have the courage to say 'no' to those who would allow
guns to be sold so readily to those who might kill with them."

