

Dutch bank ABN Amro and Britain's Barclays announced Monday they
plan to merge, creating Europe's second-largest bank and the
fifth worldwide, shedding thousands of jobs.


The merger will take place via a share swap which will value ABN
Amro at 67 billion euros (90 billion dollars) and every ABN Amro
share at 36.25 euros, the banks said in a statement.


The new company will have 220,000 employees and 47 million
customers.


The two banks said that under their merger plan 12,800 jobs would
be shed and 10,800 would be sub-contracted out.


Under the agreement ABN Amro is also separating off its US
activities at LaSalle Bank, which it is selling to Bank of
America for 21 billion dollars, a condition of the merger, the
statement said.


The 12 billion euros of revenue generated by the sale of Lasalle
will be handed over to shareholders of the new entity under a
share buy-back programme, the two banks said.


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with other groups
interested in buying the lender.


The Dutch bank had been set to meet Monday with the Royal Bank of
Scotland, Spain's Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis
regarding a possible separate offer.


It is thought that the three banks, which would be able to cut
more costs than Barclays, would divide up ABN assets between
them.


However the Dutch central bank warned last week that a potential
takeover bid by the three-bank consortium would be risky and
complicated for shareholders.


On March 20, Barclays and ABN Amro had outlined specific plans
for a merger, valuing the combined group at 140 billion euros
with its main stock market listing in London, and its
headquarters and a secondary listing in Amsterdam.


Arthur Martinez, of ABN Amro, will preside the group and John
Varley, who currently heads Barclays, will be the executive
director.


Outside Britain, Barclays has interests in continental Europe,
Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in Canada, Italy, Mexico and the United States. It has
4,500 branches in 53 countries.


"The proposed merger strengthens in a significant way the
development and distribution capacities of our products. Our
combined geographical spread will ensure us at the same time
exposure to developed economies and economies which are in strong
growth," Varley said in a statement.


The deal is expected to be concluded in the fourth quarter.


ABN Amro plans to submit its strategic options to a shareholders'
meeting on Thursday.

