

US intelligence knew about preparations for January's test in
China of an anti- satellite weapon but the US government chose
not to intervene because of insufficient leverage with Beijing,
The New York Times reported on its website Sunday.


China's shootdown of an old communication satellite was the first
successful demonstration of an anti-satellite missile by any
country in more than 20 years.


Citing unnamed US officials, the newspaper said the United States
had already detected two previous tests of the Chinese anti-
satellite system -- on July 7, 2005, and February 6, 2006.


Both of them were unsuccessful.


But in December 2006 and early January of this year, US
intelligence agencies picked up signs that preparations for a
third Chinese anti-satellite test appeared to be under way, the
report said.


The mobile missile launcher for the SC-19 was repeatedly detected
on the Songlin pad, said The Times, referring to officials
familiar with classified reports.


In early January, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
which collects and analyzes reconnaissance information, also
warned that an SC-19 test was possible that month, the paper
said.


The presumed target for the test was an old Chinese weather
satellite known as the Feng-Yun-1C.


The United States Air Force was carefully tracking the satellite
on the day of the test, checking its location six times that day
instead of the normal two, The Times reported, citing Geoff
Forden, a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.


In high-level discussions, senior officials in the administration
of President George W. Bush debated how to respond and even began
to draft a protest, but ultimately decided to say nothing to
Beijing until after the test, the report said.


The administration felt constrained in its dealings with China
because of its view that it had little leverage to stop an
important Chinese military program, and because it did not want
to let Beijing know how much the United States knew about its
space launching activities, The Times said.

