

British Finance Minister Gordon Brown, who is likely to be the
next prime minister, will have left his successor with a
difficult situation when he quits his post, an economists' report
said Monday.


Though the chancellor of the exchequer will end his decade at the
finance ministry "on a high" with strong economic growth,
accountancy firm Ernst and Young's ITEM Club warned he leaves
behind a country living beyond its means.


The ITEM Club, which uses the finance ministry's economic models
to make its own forecasts, predicted gross domestic product
growth of 2.9 percent this year, within Brown's forecast of 2.7
percent to 3.25 percent.


It also anticipated a drop in the rate of inflation over the next
few months from its current levels of 3.1 percent over 12 months,
the highest level since 1997 and in breach of a government-set
ceiling of 3.0 percent.


The report comes about two weeks ahead of elections for some
local councils across England, as well as for regional assemblies
in Scotland and Wales.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair is expected by many political
commentators to step down in the aftermath of those elections,
and Brown is the heavy favourite to succeed him.


Britain is "skating -- not to say wobbling -- on thin ice", said
the ITEM Club's chief economic adviser, Peter Spencer, in the
group's spring forecast, with British homeowners borrowing
greater amounts while facing interest rates predicted to rise
again to 5.5 percent next month.


The state itself is also borrowing more, with overall public
sector net borrowing likely to be 34 billion pounds (50 billion
euros, 68 billion dollars) in 2007-08, compared to the 31
-billion-pound projection in the December pre- Budget report.


"Many people are following the chancellor's lead and are
borrowing to finance consumption," Spencer said.


"As a country we are close to the edge ... There's a danger that
we are slithering into complacency ... Both as individuals and as
a country we have borrowed a huge amount to support this growth.


"The bottom line is that we are all living beyond our means."


According to the ITEM Club, the macro-economic situation in
recent years has left both individuals and businesses "overly
relaxed about risk".


"Homeowners have been under pressure from rising tax and utility
bills, but all the indications are that they have kept spending
as if it was going out of fashion," the ITEM Club wrote in its
report.

