

Brazil's Leandro Barbosa scored 26 points and Amare Stoudemire
added 23 points here Sunday to lead Phoenix past the Los Angeles
Lakers 95-87 in a National Basketball Association playoff opener.


Elsewhere in the West, the Denver Nuggets surprised the San
Antonio Spurs 95-89 and the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks were
hosting the Golden State Warriors.


Kobe Bryant scored 39 points in another superb one-man show for
the Lakers, but the teamwork of the Suns was too much to
overcome.


Canadian guard Steve Nash had 20 points and 10 assists for the
Suns, who also had 16 points and 16 rebounds from Shawn Marion
and 12 rebounds from Stoudemire.


Barbosa hit 10-of-22 shots from the field


"I did a great job in the second half," Barbosa said. "I had a
lot of energy to do that. I got tired a little bit. But this is
the playoffs. If you get tired you have to push yourself. I think
that this is really good for me."


Barbosa scored 15 of his points in a five-minute stretch.


"He's a one-man fast break sometimes," teammate Steve Nash said.


"We couldn't keep him in front of us," Bryant said. "Whether it
was screen-and- rolls or transition, we did a terrible job
keeping him in front and he really energized them."


Lamar Odom added 17 points and 16 points for the Lakers, who will
try to level the series here Tuesday.


This is the second straight first-round meeting between the
teams. A year ago, the Suns rallied from a 3-1 deficit to win
the series, withstanding a 50-point eruption by Bryant to win
game six in overtime.


In San Antonio, Allen Iverson and Carmelo Anthony combined for 60
points as the Denver Nuggets used a decisive fourth-quarter run
to triumph in their series opener.


Brazil's Nene had 13 points and 12 rebounds for the Nuggets, who
carried their impressive play in the season's final month into
the postseason. Denver set a franchise mark for wins in April
with 10 while dropping just one game during that time.


The Spurs, who are eventually expected to face off with Dallas in
a rematch of last season's classic seven-game Western Conference
semi-final series, hit a road block in the fourth quarter.


Trailing by three points with 7:58 left in the final period, the
Nuggets went on a 15-2 run - capped by Nene's layup with 3:27
remaining - to make it 87-77. The Spurs then went on one last
spurt, a 12-4 burst capped by Duncan's jam to make it 91-89 with
18 seconds left.


However, San Antonio did not score again. The Nuggets had no such
problems thanks to their two superstars, who combined to shoot
21-of-40 from the field - including 3-of-7 from the arc.

