

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming believes Sri Lanka's top
order batting is a weakness the Black Caps can expose when the
teams meet in Tuesday's World Cup semi-final.


The pitch at Kingston's Sabina Park is expected to be far
bouncier than the one in Grenada on April 12 where Sri Lanka beat
New Zealand, yet to reach a World Cup final, by six wickets in a
Super Eights match.


And the belief persists amongst opponents that if they can remove
dashing opener Sanath Jayasuriya, one of the stars of Sri Lanka's
1996 World Cup winning team, early they are into a vulnerable
batting line-up.


"We feel if we can get through their top order we can keep it to
a (manageable) score," said Fleming.


New Zealand's bowling attack, taken apart by Australia during
Friday's 215-run thrashing in Grenada, is set to be strengthened
by the return of all-rounder Jacob Oram from a right heel
problem, and fast bowler Shane Bond from illness.


Oram believes pitch conditions will help New Zealand make good on
Fleming's assessment of Sri Lanka's batting.


"The Jamaican pitch is going to have a bit more bounce and seam
than we've experienced everywhere else in the West Indies, so I
know a few of the guys at the top of the bowling order are keen
to extract some sort of bounce," said Oram


"If that's the case hopefully we can expose them. I'm not saying
they can't handle the bounce but, like a lot of the
subcontinental teams, it's pretty foreign to them."


However, Sri Lanka skipper Mahela Jayawardene was adamant he and
the rest of his side's strokemakers would relish the Sabina Park
surface.


"Like any other cricketers in the world, our batsmen love to play
on bouncy tracks when the ball is coming on," Jayawardene said.


"And we've got a very decent bowling attack to complement those
conditions."


Meanwhile, Oram said he'd no doubts about his own fitness.


"I'll be fine. It's my left foot, my landing foot and that's the
one that's gets a lot of stress put through it when I'm bowling,"
said the giant all-rounder.


"Three games in six days last week sent it over the edge. Rest
was the potion that we needed."


Even though New Zealand often opt for a 'horses for courses'
selection policy, off-spinner Jeetan Patel will have every right
to feel aggrieved if he is left out after being one of the few
Black Caps to emerge with credit on Friday by taking two for 48
in 10 overs.


Patel's control was in marked contrast to that of quicks Michael
Mason and Mark Gillespie whose combined nine wicketless overs
cost an expensive 94 runs.


And for all New Zealand's talk of opposition top order frailties,
their frontline batting is not the strongest either, with number
four Scott Styris - who made 111 not out against Sri Lanka in
Grenada -  often obliged to perform rescue missions.


Veteran Sri Lanka left-arm quick Chaminda Vaas removed New
Zealand's top three on his way to three for 33 in Grenada.


His figures included dismissing left-handed opener Fleming lbw
for nought for the fourth successive time.


Muttiah Muralitharan, as he has frequently done before, then
mystified the middle-order with three cheap wickets of his own.


Sri Lanka's attack Tuesday is likely to be even stronger with
unorthodox fast bowler Lasith Malinga set to return after three
games out with ankle ligament damage.


Fellow quick Dilhara Fernando has an ankle problem too but all-
rounder Farveez Maharoof, who took three wickets in an over last
time out against Ireland, could once more provide cover.

