

British bank Barclays is putting the finishing touches on an 80
-billion-euro (109-billion-dollar) takeover bid for Dutch peer
ABN Amro, Dutch NOS public television reported Sunday.


Citing sources close to the talks, the NOS news said that
Barclays' chief executive officer John Varley was expected to
come to the Netherlands to close the deal. Details should be
announced Monday morning, it said.


The offer NOS is reporting far exceeds the earlier figures
reported in the British Sunday papers for the deal.


The papers there said Barclays would bid around 69 billion euros
for ABN Amro, which works out to over 36 euros per share.


On Friday, the share price in ABN Amro closed at 36.29 euros in
Amsterdam, giving the bank a market value totalling 69.30 billion
euros. In London Barclays closed at 750 pence, making it worth
49.05 billion pounds.


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with the other groups
interested in buying the lender.


The Dutch bank was Monday set to meet with the Royal Bank of
Scotland, Spain's Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis
regarding a possible separate offer.


It is thought that the three banks, which would be able to cut
more costs than Barclays, would divide up ABN assets between
them.


TCI, which had initially advocated a break up of the ABN Amro
group, had threatened to take legal action if ABN management did
not talk to potential buyers other than Barclays.


On March 20, Barclays and ABN Amro had outlined specific plans
for a merger, including that the combined group would have its
main stock market listing in London, with headquarters and a
secondary listing in Amsterdam.


Outside Britain, Barclays has interests in continental Europe,
Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in Canada, Italy, Mexico and the United States. It has
4,500 branches in 53 countries.


A combined Barclays-ABN Amro enterprise would have 47 million
clients and employ 220,000 people in 50 countries.

