

France's Sebastien Bourdais won his second consecutive Champ-car
Grand Prix of Houston here Sunday, the three-time defending
series champion winning a race for the second week in a row.


Bourdais, who won last week at Long Beach, overcame a qualifying
penalty that knocked him off the pole to dominate over the
10-turn, 1.69-mile street course in the third race of the season.


"The car was the class of the field this weekend," Bourdais said.
"It's a shame what happened before but it's behind us. I had a
few issues in the race but we got it done."


US 18-year-old rookie Graham Rahal, Bourdais' Newman-Haas Racing
teammate, finished second to become the youngest podium finisher
in series history. Dutch rookie Robert Doornbos finished third
with Spain's Oriol Servia fourth.


"I was happy I missed the prom," said Rahal, who graduates from
high school next month. "We're finally where we belong."


Bourdais thought he had won the pole Saturday but race officials
ruled he interfered with Australian Will Power during qualifying
and penalized the Frenchman his best lap, leaving Power on the
inside of row one and Bourdais on the outside.


But Bourdais made his move past the Aussie quickly, short-cutting
a corner on lap two and breaking quickly to slide into second
with England's Justin Wilson keeping the lead.


"I was side by side with Will. There was nowhere for me to go,"
Bourdais said.


Bourdais took the lead with a pass on the first turn of lap 24
and kept his edge after the first set of pit stops with Spain's
Oriol Servia and US rookie Graham Rahal right behind him.


The lead trio pulled away but Servia's chances suffered a major
setback when he returned to the pits for fuel and was forced to
wait to exit while his Mexican teammate, Mario Dominguez, entered
his adjacent pit.


Moments later, Dominquez was rear-ended by Power and a tangle
between English drivers Dan Clarke and Katherine Legge brought
out a caution flag just as Bourdais was entering the pits to
fuel.


The perfect timing allowed Bourdais to return to the track for
the restart trailing only French rookie Tristan Gommendy, who was
staying in front hoping for another incident so he could nurse
his remaining fuel to the finish.


The gamble backfired when Gommendy ran out of fuel at the
entrance to the pit lane on lap 87, allowing Bourdais to take the
lead and keep it over the final six laps for the victory.


"I was worried there was going to be a yellow flag," Bourdais
said.


The victory moved Bourdais ahead of Power 72-70 atop the Champ-
car points chase after three races. Power, who won the season
opener in Las Vegas, finished 11th, two spots ahead of Gommendy.


The fourth of 16 races in the series will not be staged until
June 10 at Portland, Oregon. A race originally scheduled for May
in China was postponed for five months, now coming 14th on the
programme.

