

Manchester United's Cristiano Ronaldo was on Sunday named the PFA
Player of the Year and Young Player of the Year.


The 22-year-old Portugal winger is the first player to win both
awards in the same season since Andy Gray in 1977.


Ronaldo has been in incredible form for United who remain on
course for a Premiership, FA Cup and Champions League treble.


Chelsea striker Didier Drogba was second and Manchester United
midfielder Paul Scholes third in the senior award.


Manchester United veteran Ryan Giggs, last year's winner Steven
Gerrard of Liverpool and 19-year-old Arsenal midfielder Cesc
Fabregas also made ths shortlist.


Ronaldo, who has scored 16 Premiership goals so far this season,
said it was a big honour to be singled out by his peers.


"It is a special night. It is amazing and a big honour for me to
win trophies like this in the English Premier League. I am very
proud.


"My colleagues have voted for me and that is fantastic because
the players know the qualities of players.


"I want to keep working hard and getting better because these
trophies have now given me more motivation.


"At this moment, I am consistent. I am more mature now and I am
playing better.


"Everything is right this season and I am really enjoying it. I
am still young and I am learning more every day."


Fabregas finished runner-up in the young player category as well,
with 20-year- old Tottenham winger Aaron Lennon third.


Ronaldo's team-mate Wayne Rooney was also shortlisted, as were
Reading striker Kevin Doyle, 23, and 18-year-old defender Micah
Richards of Manchester City.


Manchester United took centre stage with eight of their players
making it into the Premier League team of the year and manager
Sir Alex Ferguson being honoured with the PFA Special Merit
Award.


Ferguson paid tribute to Ronaldo, who joined United from Sporting
Lisbon in August 2003 on a 12.2 million pound deal.


"At this moment in time, I think he is the best player in the
world and his season has been incredible," he said.

