

A new world of golfing dreams has become possible for Raphael
Jacquelin following his win at the BMW Asian Open, but it is the
birth of his second child that he is looking forward to most this
year.


The ultra-calm Frenchman said after his two-stroke win over a
top-class field on Sunday, which included Ernie Els and Retief
Goosen, that his goals for 2007 were now to take advantage of the
victory and qualify for the majors.


Jacquelin, aged 32, was ranked 104 in the world going into the
Shanghai tournament, co-sanctioned by the European and Asian
tours, and he will rise to the mid 60s when the new rankings are
published Monday.


"I've been trying from five years ago to get into the top 50 in
the world. That allows you to play wherever you want and
especially the majors. So I will try to go a little bit lower in
the rankings again," he told reporters.


Jacquelin's win in Shanghai gave him only his second title in 12
years on the European Tour, with his other coming at the 2005
Madrid Open.


It also continued a hot streak that saw him finish runner-up at
the Portugal Open and tied for sixth at last week's Volvo China
Open, lifting him to a career-best seventh place on the European
Order of Merit.


Amid such lofty company in Europe, Jacquelin knows that a Ryder
Cup berth is now possible if he maintains his form.


"The Ryder Cup is a dream. If I keep on playing like this I like
my chances of playing the Ryder Cup. But it is too early to speak
about (it). I just want to focus on this year and then we will
see," he said.


Asked how he intended to celebrate his BMW Asian Open win,
Jacquelin made it clear that his top priority in life rested with
his family rather than golf.


"I am going to celebrate our second child on the way in December.
That is the biggest thing that happens to a man, I think, in his
life," he said.


Jacquelin and his wife Fanny had a son, Roman, 16 months ago.
"This will be two in two years, so that's pretty good," he said
with a huge smile.


And although his fellow French players sprayed him with champagne
following his final stroke on the 18th green on Sunday, Jacquelin
said that rather than partying he wanted to return home to his
expecting wife.


Fanny used to travel with him constantly around the world but he
said earlier in the tournament that she was not able to do that
anymore because of their child.


"So I will take next week off. I will go home," he said on Sunday
-- adding that he would soon go back to work at the Telecom
Italia Open from May 3-6.

