

Brian Gionta scored two goals and the New Jersey Devils advanced
to the second round of the National Hockey League playoffs with a
3-2 triumph over Tampa Bay here Sunday.


The Detroit Red Wings also booked a second-round berth with a 2-1
double- overtime victory over the Calgary Flames in their Western
Conference series.


The second-seeded Devils, who defeated the Lightning four games
to two in the best-of-seven series, will face Ottawa in the
second round of the Eastern Conference playoffs while top seed
Buffalo will meet the New York Rangers.


Gionta scored the opening goal on a power play 14:29 into the
first period and the Devils doubled the margin on Brian
Rafalski's power-play goal 81 seconds into the second period.


Brad Richards answered for Tampa Bay just 5:10 into the second
period but Gionta stretched New Jersey's lead to 3-1 just 39
seconds later with his fifth goal of the playoffs.


Richards added a power play goal 5:03 later to pull the Lightning
back within a goal, but Tampa Bay could never slide the equalizer
past Devils netminder Martin Brodeur, who made 32 saves.


In Calgary, Johan Franzen scored on a blistering shot at 4:23 of
the second overtime to help the Red Wings eliminate the Calgary
Flames with a 2-1 victory that gave them a 4-2 series triumph.


Taking a pass from Nicklas Lidstrom, Franzen sped up the right
side of the ice, cut across the middle and ripped a 45-foot shot
over the right shoulder of Miikka Kiprusoff for his second goal
of the series.


Although Detroit dominated, as evidenced by its staggering 55-21
advantage in shots on goal, it needed to survive a miraculous
miss by Calgary's David Moss in the first overtime to avoid a
seventh game.


That followed an enormous opportunity for Detroit, which had a
four-minute power play when Craig Conroy was whistled for a high-
sticking penalty with 13:16 left in the first overtime.


Mikael Samuelsson almost ended it for the Wings, blasting a slap
shot that Kiprusoff knocked down and then watched trickle behind
him until defenseman Roman Hamrlik swept it out of the crease
just inches from the goal line.


Both regulation goals came in the second period, with Flames
captain Jarome Iginla scoring at 3:09 and Robert Lang tallying
for the Red Wings at 16:53.


Anaheim and San Jose have already advanced in the West and Dallas
will play at Vancouver on Monday in the seventh game of their
series.

