

Crying, hugging, many still clearly shaken, thousands of Virginia
Tech students were heading back to classes Monday one week after
a disturbed classmate killed 32 in the country's worst-ever mass
shooting.


Virtually empty since classes were cancelled after Cho Seung-Hui
blasted his way through a dormitory and a classroom building on
April 16, the campus in this rural southern Virginia town filled
up late Sunday as students, many with their parents, returned to
the university.


First-year student Adriana Gonzalez said she was unnerved by the
prospect of resuming class on Monday, after having been locked
down in her classroom building one week earlier as Cho blasted
his way through Norris Hall just next door before killing
himself.


"Tomorrow I have to take the same route as last Monday" to class,
Gonzalez said shortly after driving back from her home in
Alexandria, Virginia near Washington.


David Anderson, a graduate student from Massachusetts, said he
welcomed the occasion to get back to work and get the tragedy out
of his mind.


"It's been real hard getting motivated this week," he said.


At 9:45 (1345 GMT) Monday morning the university will stop for a
moment of silence, then the tolling of 32 bells and the release
of 32 white balloons, one for each of Cho's victims, and then a
thousand more in the university's omnipresent maroon and orange
colors.


After a week of some of the most intense media attention ever
seen in the United States, the university banned reporters and
television cameras from classrooms Monday, aiming to let the
students and professors begin to deal with the massacre away from
scrutiny.


On Sunday under warm, sunny skies at the drillfield at the center
of campus, hundreds of students, parents and alumni lined up to
pay their respects to the dead, represented by a semicircle of 33
stones -- including one for Cho -- piled high with flowers,
candles, American flags and mementos from softballs brought by a
visiting team to stuffed animals.


Despite the huge crowd there was only a respectful murmur, and
occasional sobs, across the sprawling green-carpeted commons,
which students say is normally lively and noisy when the weather
is good.


But elsewhere the campus students were more boisterous, playing
volleyball, tossing frisbees and taking in lacrosse, baseball and
softball games between Virginia Tech's teams and other
universities.


Many said they were determined to get back to their studies and
complete the school year in just over two weeks on a positive
note.


"It was a break that we needed," said Matt Manousoff, a first-
year student from Frederick, Maryland.


"But I'm looking forward to finishing out the year."


Earlier on Sunday mourners, including officials from Virginia
Tech, gathered at the National Cathedral in Washington to
remember the dead.


"We are still in the process of grieving, but efforts like this
event today help us move forward in the healing process," the
university's representatives said in a statement.


Many at the university still expressed dismay that South Korea-
born, US-raised Cho, 23 and an English major, was able to buy two
handguns after having been recognized by professors and police
and mentally disturbed.


"It's a national tragedy and at the end of the day, I think out
of this tragedy, there may be lessons learned that have national
applications," said retired police superintendent Gerald
Massengill, who has been tasked with heading up the Virginia
state's inquiry into the massacre.


"We've got over 4,200 great colleges and universities in this
country. We've got 17 million men and women going to school and
maybe out of this tragedy, we can reduce the risk that this could
ever happen again," he said on NBC television.

