

Shanghai Shenhua face a make-or-break match against J-League
champions Urawa Red Diamonds on Wednesday, with elimination from
the AFC Champions League at stake.


Urawa have stamped their authority on Group E and the Chinese
side, quarter- finalists last year, know they need something
special at home after crashing 1-0 to the Reds in the last round
of matches on April 11.


With zero points from three games, Shanghai prop up the group and
will have no chance of qualifying for the knockout rounds if they
lose.


They gave up a one-goal advantage to be beaten by Dalian Shide in
the Chinese Super League on Saturday but will be buoyed by Urawa
crashing 2-1 to fellow Champions League side Kawasaki Frontale in
the J-League, also Saturday.


Surprise package Persik Kediri from Indonesia sit in second spot
behind Urawa and ahead of Sydney FC.


Sydney, linked last week with Liverpool star Robbie Fowler,
stepped up preparations for their rematch against Persik with a
2-1 friendly victory over New South Wales Premier League outfit
Bankstown City last week.


Persik stunned the A-League side 2-1 in the last round and Sydney
need a win on Wednesday to keep pace with Urawa. Only the top
team from each group makes the last eight.


Chinese side Shandong Luneng is faring better.


Along with Al Wahda of the United Arab Emirates, they are the
only team to have won all three games so far.


They have a rematch against hapless Dong Tam Long An, who they
hammered 4-0 earlier this month, and should have little trouble
making it four out of four to ensure a berth in the quarter-
finals.


Adelaide United and South Korea's Seongnam Chunma are fighting
for second place, both on four points after playing out a 2-2
draw in Australia this month. The K-League leaders have home
advantage on Wednesday.


Meanwhile 2003 winners Al Ain will be looking to build on their
3-2 victory over joint Group D leaders Sepahan this month, but
face a tricky task in Iran.


Last year's runners-up, Al Karama of Syria, take on Iraq's Al
Najaf with Uzbekistan league pacesetters Neftchi at home against
Qatar's Al Sadd in finely poised Group C.


Group F leaders Kawasaki Frontale have home advantage against
second placed Chunnam Dragons of Korea while Bangkok University
are up against Indonesia's Arema Malang.


Unbeaten Al Wahda can maintain their grip on Group A and qualify
for the knockouts with a home win against Qatar's Al Zawra'a,
while Uzbek giants Pakhtakor defend their Group B leadership from
Saudi outfit Al Hilal.


Group B consists of just three teams after Esteghlal Tehran were
thrown out for failing to submit their player registration forms
on time.


The group matches wind up on May 23 when the competition pauses
for the Asian Cup finals.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the quarter-
finals in September.


The winners take home 600,000 US dollars and earn a place in the
World Club Championships in December.

