

Ins and outs of coaches and captains at the World Cup with five
days left in the 2007 tournament:


AUSTRALIA


On top of the world, the two-time defnding champions are already
in the semi- finals, where they face South Africa in St Lucia on
Wednesday, and are odds-on to win a third title in the final here
on April 28.


Coach: John Buchanan has already announced he will retire after
the World Cup and will be replaced by Tim Nielsen, the head coach
at the Centre of Excellence in Brisbane.


Captain: Ricky Ponting is in the runs, has won back the Ashes
thanks to a 5-0 drubbing of England this winter and shows no sign
of easing up.


BANGLADESH


Defeated India in the first round and beat semi-finalists South
Africa in the Super Eights. But horribly inconsistent and lost to
Ireland.


Coach: Dav Whatmore, the man who led Sri Lanka to the 1996 World
Cup, has resigned but has agreed to oversee the Test and one-day
series against India on home soil next month. Whatmore has been
linked with the India hot-seat.


Captain: Habibul Bashar endured a miserable World Cup making just
105 runs in eight innings. "Every captain faces the same kinds of
pressures in international cricket," he said. "The truth is that
I have not batted well."


BERMUDA


Humiliated on their debut appearance losing by 243 runs to Sri
Lanka, 257 runs to India and by seven wickets to Bangladesh.
Their competitive ungainliness was illustrated by the 255-pound
(116kg) spinner Dwayne Leverock.


Coach: Former West Indies Test star Gus Logie faced down a player
revolt on the eve of the tournament in a row over payments and
then saw his team overwhelmed.


"Not enough of our senior players, particularly the batsmen,
really lived up to what was expected of them," said Logie whose
next assignment will be to lead the team on tours to Ireland and
Holland in August.


Captain: Irvine Romaine expected to carry on


CANADA


First round exit after losing all three matches to New Zealand,
England and Kenya. After the tournament, George Codrington and
Anderson Cummins, the former West Indies Test paceman, announced
their retirement.


Coach: Andy Pick was on a sabbatical and returns to resume his
former role as coach of the England Under-19 side. His final task
is to take charge of the Canadian team at the four-day
Intercontinental Cup final against Ireland in May.


Captain: Veteran John Davison, who hit the fastest ever World Cup
century in 2003, was unable to repeat the magic this time. Fast
approaching his 37th birthday, his time at the helm could be
running out. Wants to see domestic cricket in Canada become semi-
professional.


ENGLAND


Lost to New Zealand, Sri Lanka, Australia and South Africa with
only one two wins over Test playing nations, a laboured affair
against Bangladesh and a one- wicket winning finale against West
Indies. Their hopes had already ended with a whimper when South
Africa cruised to a nine-wicket win with 30 overs to spare.


Coach: Duncan Fletcher quit after eight years in charge to be
succeeded by highly-respected Academy head Peter Moores. Fletcher
had been widely praised in 2005 for masterminding the capture of
the Ashes. But a 5-0 drubbing against the Aussies in the winter
as the Ashes were handed back put him under severe stress.


Captain: Michael Vaughan had a miserable World Cup before making
79 against West Indies. Will remain in charge for the Test series
against the West Indies in May but whether or not he leads the
side for the one-dayers remains to be seen.


INDIA


Vying with Pakistan for the unwanted title of biggest
disappointment in the Caribbean. Defeats to Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka condemned them to a first round exit and dealt a huge blow
to the World Cup's credibility as the game's financial powerhouse
beat a retreat.


Coach: Greg Chappell jumped before he was pushed amidst
allegations of splits in the squad and fallouts with senior
players. Ravi Shastri has been put in temporary charge for the
trip to Bangladesh in May.


Captain: Rahul Dravid survived the bloodletting but there is a
hint of change in the air with Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav
Ganguly both axed from the one-day squad for the series in
Bangladesh as selectors begin their planning for the 2011 World
Cup which they will co-host.


IRELAND


Stunned the cricket world with their win over Pakistan in the
first roud which helped send the 1992 champions crashing out of
the tournament and gave the debutants an unlikely place in the
Super Eights where they also beat Bangladesh.


Coach: Adrian Birrell always intended to step down after the
World Cup but success came at a slight cost - their surprise
passage to the second round meant he had to cancel a family
holiday. Will be succeeded by Phil Simmons.


Captain: Australian-born Trent Johnston hit the winning six
against Pakistan but admits that at 33 he will talk to his family
about whether or not to continue his playing career.


KENYA


Semi-finalists in 2003 but failed to get beyond the first round
this time. Managed to beat Canada but had the same complaint of
all the minnows in the Caribbean - 'we need more games'.


Coach: Roger Harper took over in January 2006 and is expected to
be offered a new deal ahead of the World Twenty20 Cup in South
Africa in September.


Captain: Steve Tikolo maybe 36 years old but has no intention of
retiring. "I want to play for Kenya for the next few years to see
this team develop into a fine unit," said Tikolo.


NETHERLANDS


Trounced by 221 runs and 229 runs by South Africa and Australia
respectively, the Dutch at least had the consolation of beating
fellow Group A makeweights Scotland by eight wickets.


Coach: Peter Cantrell stepped down despite the national board
wanting him to remain in charge. He said he found it increasingly
hard to combine his duties with his job as a golf instructor.


Captain: Luuk van Troost retired and it was a low-key farewell.
He dropped himself from the match with Scotland because of his
poor form and acting-skipper Jeroen Smits seized his chance by
leading the team to a win.


NEW ZEALAND


Play Sri Lanka in Tuesday's semi-final in Jamaica and are still
looking for a first World Cup title.


Coach: John Bracewell, a former Black Caps Test off-spinner, is a
highly- respected coach having enjoyed a successful spell
coaching another English county, Gloucestershire, ahead of moving
back to New Zealand in 2003.


Captain: Stephen Fleming, the longest-serving and most successful
New Zealand skipper, gets his chance this week to become the
first man to captain a Kiwi World Cup winning team.


PAKISTAN


World Cup forever associated with the murder of coach Bob Woolmer
on March 18.


Coach: Hunt for Woolmer's killer is still ongoing with the
inquest, scheduled for April 23, postponed. In the meantime,
former India coach John Wright has been linked with the job of
coach, one of the most demanding and unforgiving in world
cricket.


Captain: Inzamam-ul-Haq's tearful Sabina Park farewell was one of
the abiding images of the World Cup as he brought the curtain
down on his international one- day career. Shoaib Malik has been
put in charge after vice-captain Younis Khan turned down the job.


SCOTLAND


Three defeats in three Group A games with the eight-wicket loss
to fellow outsiders the Netherlands particularly disappointing.


Coach: Peter Drinnen is still at the helm with the brief to guide
the team to respectability at the World Twenty20 Cup in South
Africa in September.


Captain: Ryan Watson, an international player since 1996, has
replaced Craig Wright who resigned after the loss to the Dutch.


SOUTH AFRICA


In the semi-finals where they face Australia on Wednesday.


Coach: 38-year-old Mickey Arthur was a surprise choice to take
over from Ray Jennings in May 2005 and had a baptism fire losing
series to Australia at home amd away. Grabbed revenge with one-
day series win over Aussies at home in 2006 with the famous
record-breaking run chase in Johannesburg the perfect end.


Captain: Graeme Smith took over from Shaun Pollock when South
Africa were knocked out of the World Cup they were hosting in
2003. At 22, he was his country's youngest skipper.


SRI LANKA


Facing New Zealand in the semi-finals in Jamaica on Tuesday.


Coach: Tom Moody won two World Cups as a player with Australia
and has since carved out a respected career as a coach working
with Worcestershire before moving to Sri Lanka in May 2005 after
being pipped for the India job by Greg Chappell. Speculation that
he will leave after the World Cup to take charge of Western
Australia.


Captain: Mahela Jayawardene took over from Marvan Atapattu in
2006, led Sri Lanka to a 5-0 one-day whitewash over England and
then scored a Sri Lankan record 374 against South Africa in
Colombo. He added 624 for the third wicket with Kumar Sangakkara.


WEST INDIES


A team in a seemingly continuous cycle of decline and finished in
sixth place in the World Cup Super Eights just above Bangladesh
and Ireland.


Coach: Australian Bennett King took over from Gus Logie in 2004
and has said he would consider his future after the World Cup.
With a review of the tournament to take place, it remains to be
seen whether the 42-year-old will still be in charge for the tour
to England in May.


Captain: Brian Lara bid a tearful farewell from international
cricket at a packed Kensington Oval on Saturday. Lara set world
records throughout his career but even in his third spell as
captain, he was unable to arrest the decline of a once-feared
cricket machine. Ramnaraesh Sarwan tipped to take over.


ZIMBABWE


In complete turmoil, scratched a draw with Ireland but lost to
West Indies and Pakistan.


Coach: Kevin Curran, who replaced Phil Simmons in August 2005, is
in a precarious position and was under pressure even before the
World Cup when his team lost 30 of 40 matches played under him.


Captain: Prosper Utseya was unexpectedly thrust into the Zimbabwe
national team against Sri Lanka at the age of 19 when all the
rebel players withdrew. He looked out of his depth in the
Caribbean and since returning home has lost the services of
promising opener Vusi Sibanda, who has left to play in Sydney, as
well as seamer Anthony Ireland who has quit international cricket
and now has a two-year deal with Gloucestershire.

