

Sri Lanka seamer Farveez Maharoof pledged to give 200 percent if
that's what it takes to defeat New Zealand in the World Cup semi-
finals here on Tuesday.


Maharoof made a compelling case for a starting place in the team
with a man-of- the-match performance against Ireland last week
where he took four wickets, including three in an over, as well
as pulling off a stunning run-out.


"I will give 200 percent in the match and I would back myself to
perform," said the 22-year-old from Colombo.


"We have played really well so far. It will be a case of
continuing to give it our best."


Maharoof, a former captain of his country's Under-19 side, seized
his chance against Ireland in Grenada to make a case for semi-
final inclusion with Dilhara Fernando ruled out through injury.


"I got injured earlier in the tournament against Bangladesh but I
just kept working hard in the nets. This is my first World Cup
and it is something I have been looking forward to ever since I
became professional three years ago."


Sri Lanka's bowlers have been mightily impressive in the World
Cup.


Maharoof has nine wickets but he is behind teammates Muttiah
Muralitharan (19), Lasith Malinga (15) and Chaminda Vaas (12).


"All the bowlers have proved their class at the World Cup," added
Maharoof who has shown himself to be a man for the big occasion
in the past - at the 2006 Champions Trophy in India he took 6-14
to help bowl out the West Indies for 80.


"We have been talking about getting the basics right and putting
the ball in the right areas. We are very happy with the way
things are going and we are looking forward to the semi-finals."


Sri Lanka skipper Mahela Jawaywardene said he is unconcerned
about having to choose between who to include and who to omit
from his team for the match at Sabina Park where the pitch should
have plenty of bounce.


"It's a good headache to have," said Sri Lanka captain Mahela
Jayawardene when quizzed if Maharoof would start the semi-final.


"Everyone in this squad has put their hands up when it comes to
performing. It would be a worse headache if we were not
performing."


However, the decision on selection might be made easier if
Fernando fails a fitness test.


"Dilhara played against Australia with an ankle problem. He had
two injections in it and he needs to prove his fitness before the
semi-finals," said the skipper after the win over Ireland.


Sri Lanka have a psychological edge over the Black Caps going
into Tuesday's match having won their Super Eights match in
Grenada on April 12 by six wickets.


Vaas and Muralitharan took three wickets each as the Black Caps
were restricted to 219-7 off 50 overs.


Sri Lanka comfortably reached their target with almost five overs
to spare with Sanath Jayasuriya and Kumar Sangakkara hitting
half-centuries.


The winner of Tuesday's semi-final will face either defending
champions Australia or South Africa, who meet in St Lucia on
Wednesday, in Saturday's World Cup final in Barbados.

