

A Turkish court Sunday brought terrorism charges against four
young men and a woman over the gruesome murder of three
Christians in eastern Turkey, and jailed them pending trial,
officials said.


The four men, aged 19 and 20, were captured at the crime scene at
the office of a Christian publishing house in Malatya, where a
German and two Turkish converts to Christianity were tortured and
had their throats slit Wednesday.


They were charged with setting up a terrorist organisation and
murder, prosecutor Mustafa Demirdag told Anatolia news agency.


The 18-year-old woman was charged with aiding a terrorist group,
he said.


She has been identified as the girlfriend of the alleged leader
of the gang, Emre Gunaydin, 19, who remains in hospital with a
serious head injury after jumping from the third-floor office of
the publishing house to escape arrest.


The court ordered the release of six other men, also aged 19 and
20, pending trial for their alleged lesser role in the murders,
Anatolia reported.


The 11 suspects were questioned for about eight hours earlier in
the day.


The murders followed the killings of a Roman Catholic priest last
year and an ethnic Armenian journalist in January, fuelling
concern that nationalism and hostility against non-Muslims is on
the rise in Turkey.


The prosecution will now draw up an indictment detailing the
charges and the sentences wanted for the suspects in order for
the trial to start.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were tied to chairs and tortured for three hours as
the assailants interrogated them on their missionary activities
and then cut their throats.


The Zirve publishing house distributed bibles and published
Christian literature.


The police raided the building, alerted by a local who grew
suspicious when he found the office door locked, and captured
four men there.


The four told investigators the attack was organised by Gunaydin,
who was angered because one of the victims told him that "if you
become Christians you will be awarded with heaven, but otherwise
three out of five Muslim children will die", said a lawyer for
one of the suspects.


"Gunaydin's testimony will be crucial for the case," Anatolia
quoted attorney Kadir Pektas as saying.


Doctors say Gunaydin's condition is improving and he may be fit
for questioning within several days.


He had reportedly visited the publishing house several times and
attended an Easter dinner hosted by the Protestant community in
Malatya this month.


The media have speculated that the assailants belong to a
nationalist Islamist cell similar to one in the northern city of
Trabzon blamed for the murder of ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant
Dink.


One suspect allegedly filmed the murders on his mobile telephone,
the mass- selling Sabah daily reported.


The police are looking for seven other people, including a
bearded man believed to have fled the publishing house shortly
before police arrived, newspapers said.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country holds the rotating
presidency of the European Union, said she was troubled by an
"unacceptable intolerance" in Turkey, a membership candidate.


"Everything must be done to prevent a climate that makes such
horrible murders possible," she told the daily Muenchener Merkur
in an interview to be published Monday.


The German victim, Tilmann Geske, was buried in Malatya, where he
had lived since 2003.


His wife Suzanna told the Vatan daily that she and her three
children would continue to live there "until Jesus gives me a
sign to go".


The Organisation of the Islamic Conference also denounced the
murders on Sunday. Its secretary general Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu
said he felt compelled to condemn the "grisly crimes because
their perpetrators linked them to Islam".

