

Shane Watson has admitted to being hurt by criticism from the
likes of former Australia captain Bobby Simpson but a desire to
prove his doubters wrong has inspired the all-rounder to nail
down a place in the champions World Cup side.


When the injury-prone Queenslander was out for three games with a
calf muscle injury in the Caribbean many wondered what he was
doing in a team that continued to win comfortably without him.


But his usefulness was on show for all to see with a dynamic 65
not out off just 32 balls in Friday's 215-run thrashing of New
Zealand in Grenada.


Watson, who'd spent months working on his batting with Australia
assistant coach Jamie Siddons, showed plenty of invention be it
stepping across to the off-side to turn the ball over short fine
leg or carving over the covers as he did to take Australia to 348
for six off the last ball of the innings.


"It has hurt at times," Watson said of the criticism. "It's human
nature.. you can take it to heart.


"In the end all I have tried to do is be my best and I've tried
to work extremely hard on my game to continue to improve. Having
people doubt your ability and then to be able to put it together
in a World Cup is truly satisfying for myself more than anything.


In an article for Indian magazine SportsStar two months ago,
Simpson branded Watson as merely a "competent" cricketer.


"I have doubts if he has the skills or flexibility to cope with
cricket at the highest level," former opening batsman Simpson,
Australia's 1987 World Cup- winning coach, wrote.


"He looks like an over-coached player, lacking in natural skills
and movements. Perhaps this is one reason why he has had so many
injuries."


But Australia captain Ricky Ponting, speaking after Friday's
match, said the sight of Watson striking four sixes and four
fours before taking one for 20 with his brisk medium-pace, ought
to make the all-rounder's critics reflect.


"It might quieten a few people down, particularly back at home,
that have been casting all these doubts about Shane Watson and
his value to this team," said Ponting.


"You are not going to see striking like that from somebody who
can't play the game. Shane is a very talented cricketer and
someone who works extremely hard at his game.


"He hasn't had a great run with injury over the last couple of
years but if you have a look at his form in the one-day side,
he's hardly put a foot wrong."


Watson, 25, has played just three Tests, injuring his shoulder in
his third appearance in Brisbane in November 2005 against the
West Indies.


He made his one-day international debut in 2002 but his 63-game
career in the shorter format has also been interrupted by fitness
problems.


Chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad, he withdrew because of a
back injury and had to withdraw from Australia's one-day squad
that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago because of a right calf
strain sustained while making 201 in the domestic Pura Cup final.


He then missed the whole of Australia's recent 5-0 home Ashes
triumph against England with a hamstring problem.


Australia, bidding for a third straight World Cup title and
fourth in all, play South Africa in Wednesday's second semi-final
in St Lucia, 24 hours after New Zealand face Sri Lanka in
Jamaica.


The World Cup final is scheduled to take place in Barbados on
Saturday.

