

Nigeria on Monday awaited results of historic elections to take
over from President Olusegun Obasanjo and choose a new
parliament, amid mounting international concern over ballot chaos
and fraud.


As officials tallied votes, the conduct of the poll marking the
first peaceful civilian-to-civilian handover since independence
in 1960 in Africa's most populous nation came under increasing
criticism by observer missions, Western and African alike.


With all eyes on stability in the world's sixth oil exporter,
electoral commission chief Maurice Iwu insisted the Saturday
polls were successful, free and fair.


But in the face of widespread electoral mayhem and calls from the
opposition for a re-run, the German presidency of the European
Union criticised "irregularities" and an observer team from the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) dubbed the
polls merely "fairly acceptable" rather than free and fair.


"Incidents have given rise to concerns that not all Nigerians
entitled to vote really were able to do so freely and without
fear," the EU said.


Ballot papers were delivered late to the country's 120,000
polling stations, with some Nigerians unable to cast their votes
at all, and others only late in the day.


And printing errors on some of the 65 million ballots forced a
last-minute cancellation of parliamentary and senatorial
elections in parts of the country. A Commonwealth observer team
noted "significant shortcomings" and the US-based International
Republican Institute said the poll fell below even the standards
of Nigerian elections in 2003 and in 1999, won by Obasanjo.


Citing chaos and fraud, one of the three leading contenders in
the presidential race, Vice President Atiku Abubakar, called
Sunday for new polls.


"I have already rejected the elections," he said. "They have no
alternative other than to cancel them altogether." Abubakar, a
friend-turned-foe of Obasanjo's, defected from the ruling
People's Democratic Party (PDP) to run for the opposition Action
Congress.


Most results are expected late Monday, and the electoral
commission (INEC), which was the target of a failed truck-bomb
hours before the vote, has so far been unable to indicate
turnout.


As counting continues, Nigeria's largest local observer body, the
Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), is also threatening to request
cancellation of the poll.


A re-run would be a tall order in view of the logistical
challenge of organising elections in a country with 140 million
people and a track record of rigging elections. Voter
registration alone took several months.


Saturday's ballot-box confusion was partly caused by an 11th-hour
supreme court decision only last week to allow Action Congress
candidate Abubakar, who is facing corruption allegations, to run
in the election, overruling his disqualification by the election
commission.


That left the electoral commission faced with the mammoth task of
reprinting ballots overseas for 61.5 million eligible voters and
getting them to 120,000 polling booths in time for a 0900 GMT
start.


Other leading contenders in the race for the presidency are Umaru
Yar'Adua of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP), who is
tipped as the likely winner, and the opposition All Nigerian
People's Party (ANPP) candidiate,  Muhammadu Buhari, a former
military ruler.


According to figures compiled by AFP at least 39 people have died
in election- related violence alone in the past eight days. About
the same number again were killed in religious violence in the
north of the country during the same period.


Late Sunday, the electoral commission announced results for the
Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the geographical entity
surrounding the capital Abuja. They showed the opposition ANPP in
the lead, followed by the PDP.

