

US officials Friday denied having delayed visas for Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his entourage seeking to attend
a UN Security Council vote on sanctions against the Islamic
Republic.


But the State Department did confirm that Ahmadinejad had
informed the US mission at the United Nations that he was not now
going to travel to New York for Saturday's vote.


"Our UN Mission has been informed that President Ahmadinejad has
now decided not to come to New York," deputy State Department
spokesman Tom Casey said.


"As we said, we provided visas to President Ahmadinejad's
delegation, including his security and aircrew, in time for him
to come to New York and speak at the Security Council on
Saturday.


"Any suggestion that visa issues are the cause of President
Ahmadinejad's decision not to travel to New York is false."


US officials said the first 39 visas were handed over in Bern,
Switzerland at 10:00 am (0900 GMT), and that another 36 were
issued some seven hours later.


"These visas were able to be issued despite the fact that the
completed applications for many of them were not received until
this morning," Casey said.


An Iranian official on Friday said Ahmadinejad could not now
travel to New York in time for Saturday's Security Council
meeting because the United States had deliberately issued the
visas late.


"President Ahmadinejad's trip has been made impossible because of
the lateness in supplying a visa by the United States," the
official told AFP under condition of anonymity.


"Because of this, it is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on
time, and the president's trip has therefore become virtually
impossible," he added.


But that was completely denied by Casey who accused the Iranian
leader of  being "unwilling to stand before the Council and take
the heat for his continued defiance of the international
community."


Iran and the United States have not held diplomatic ties for the
past 27 years, and Switzerland takes care of US interests in
Iran, with Iranian interests in the US handled by Pakistan.


The Iranian leader had asked to address the council as it
prepares to vote on a resolution imposing new sanctions on Tehran
for refusing to rein in its suspect nuclear program.


Earlier Friday, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
initial bunch of visas had been issued, but that additional
requests for another 33 visas for Iranian crew members were still
being examined.


"It was one of these incidents when they failed to fill out all
the forms. But our folks in Bern are working as quickly as they
can to make sure that those visas get issued within the confines
of our host country obligations," McCormack said.

