

Kobe Bryant became just the second player in National Basketball
Association history to score 50 or more points in four straight
games with a 50-point outburst on Friday.


The red-hot superstar led the Los Angeles Lakers to a 111-105
victory over the New Orleans Hornets, making 16-of-29 shots from
the field and all 16 of his free-throw attempts.


"He really had a hell of a game tonight," said Los Angeles coach
Phil Jackson, who said Bryant may have been galvanized by his
recent brief but controversial suspensions by the NBA. "He came
out and started right off the bat.


"It hasn't been a problem with him playing these kind of minutes.
So we'll ride him and see how it goes. I think he's got a little
bit of incentive left in him, and he'll probably go back after it
on Sunday."


Bryant joined NBA legend Wilt Chamberlain as the only players to
score at least 50 points in four or more consecutive games.
Chamberlain accomplished the feat in five consecutive games in
1962.


He surpassed Elgin Baylor for first place on the Lakers' all-time
list with 18 50-point games.


"It's a tremendous honor for me to be in the same sentence with
those guys," Bryant said. "The coolest thing about it is that
this younger generation gets a chance to learn about Baylor, a
chance to learn about Chamberlain and some of the things they
accomplished so that their legacy will continue to live on."


Bryant scored 65 points a week ago against Portland and followed
it up with a 50-point effort against Minnesota the following
night. He poured in 60 against Memphis on Thursday.


"Just getting in a good groove," Bryant said. "Putting myself in
position to see the basket. I am seeing the basket.


"I just go in and try to be aggressive and try to put the other
team back on their heels and take some momentum away from the
home crowd. I just go in to assert myself."


New Orleans held a 59-56 lead early in the third quarter before
the Lakers went on a 25-6 run over six minutes capped off by
Bryant's 3-pointer, which made the score 81-65 with 4:54
remaining in the period.


Bryant scored 15 points during the run.


"We knew Kobe was going to have one of those nights," Hornets
coach Byron Scott said. "He's just so good. He's such a
competitor and he lives in the moment. This is the moment right
now with a playoff-type atmosphere, playoff-type basketball. We
knew he was going to come out and play like that."


The Hornets pulled back within 92-86 on Jannero Pargo's 3-pointer
with 7:07 remaining in the game, but Bryant held them off with
six points down the stretch.


Lamar Odom added 15 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for the
Lakers, who moved two games ahead of Denver for the sixth seed in
the Western Conference playoffs.


"Another four-game win streak," Bryant said. "You feel like
you're starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel."


Chris Paul scored 28 points and Tyson Chandler made some history
of his own, scoring 22 points and grabbing 22 rebounds to become
the first Hornets player to go for 20 and 20 since Anthony Mason
10 seasons ago.

