

Packets of ready-made omelettes, catering-size bottles of
American sauces, even alcohol and pork forbidden in Islam --
items somehow pilfered from foreign military bases or
internationals-only stores are making an appearance in Kabul
markets.


Shelves of the small shops in Bush Market, near the dirty stream
that the Kabul River has become, are packed with jumbo-sized
containers of products that are sometimes unfamiliar to the
shopkeepers and jar with their surroundings.


Pink bottles of sun cream stand near gleaming cans of antiseptic
aerosol; there are Christmas stockings, bagels, horseradish and
tins and tins of Quaker Oats.


"Pork?" a shopkeeper asks a foreigner in a sly whisper, gesturing
to a soggy box on the dirty pavement.


Another asks for help in identifying packets of thawing meat
which turn out to be Bratwurst and veal, according to small
labels written in English.


Disassembled military MREs -- Meals Ready to Eat for troops in
the field -- are sorted into boxes near packets of crab sticks
and huge blocks of Dutch chocolate.


In one dim store hangs an old copy of Cosmopolitan magazine, its
risque cover turned to the wall; elsewhere issues of army
publication Freedom Watch are tossed on the floor and military ID
pouches dangle in a window.


A shopkeeper standing next to a pile of canteen-style mealtrays
is asked where the items come from. "Frankly, they are stolen,"
he says with a shrug and a grin.


Another trader, Mohammed Najib, adds: "They are smuggled out (of
the military bases) by laundry workers, kitchen workers. Or food
is given away when they don't need it, like expired stuff. And
stuff that is left in the garbage, the workers bring out."


Sometimes goods are "gifted" to workers after they have offloaded
trucks at the military stores, another says.


"We are not stealing -- we buy it from someone," he says.


Western beauty and health products are favoured over available
Chinese and Pakistani versions because they are considered better
quality, Najib says. Foreigners and returned exiles are among his
customers.


Most of the items come from the giant US military base at Bagram,
about 60 kilometres (40 miles) from Kabul, he says.


The bazaar outside the Bagram base hit the headlines in April
last year when flash memory drives containing military secrets
were found to be on sale after being smuggled out by cleaners and
garbage collectors.


The Kabul bazaar is popularly called Bush Market because of its
association with the US military and President George W. Bush who
ordered the toppling of the Taliban government five years ago.


The tradition began with the Brezhnev Market that sold Soviet
items after the 1979 invasion of the government of Leonid
Brezhnev.


Najib says some of the shops used to sell beer -- which is banned
in Islamic Afghanistan -- but supplies dried up when authorities
recently clamped down on stores and restaurants meant to sell
alcohol only to foreigners.


Now there are regular inspections with authorities also looking
for expired foods, he says.


But across town boxes of Heineken beer are boldly stacked in the
sun against the flimsy walls of shacks that sell burgers wrapped
in pages from the International Security Assistance Force
newspaper.


There are other brands of beer, vodka coolers and a couple of
cans of Guinness.


"We have got people who bring it -- I think they get a whole
container (from one of the foreigners-only shops)," says 19-year-
old Rishad, part-owner of a little shop bedecked with saucy
Bollywood posters.


A few free beers from time to time can persuade the police to
accept the version with five percent alcohol content. It is the
ones with more alcohol, hidden from display, that can cause
problems. "We have to pay more," he says.


Rishad says he has a steady supply of Afghan customers besides
the occasional Westerner.


"I have one who is in love and he drinks to forget his love. I
have one who is stuck here and his family is in The Netherlands
and and he drinks to forget he is lonely," he says.


On the ban on alcohol and mutterings in parliament about
ubiquitous pictures of sexy Bollywood stars, Rashid says: "I
don't have an opinion. Some people say this is a democracy, some
people say it is an Islamic country.


"I know I am not earning clean money out of this, but what other
job can I do?"

