

Contrary to his earlier assertions, US Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales took part in a confidential meeting on firing seven US
attorneys now at the center of a political controversy, documents
released late Friday show.


The e-mails and other papers sent by the Justice Department to
Congress indicate that on November 27, Gonzales attended an hour-
long meeting on the firings with his then-chief of staff, Kyle
Sampson, the man in charge of putting together a list of those to
be dismissed.


According to the documents, in late November Sampson was still
struggling with the task of determining which prosecutors would
lose their jobs.


The list was finalized days after his meeting with Gonzales in
the attorney general's conference room, and the seven attorneys
were formally notified of their dismissals on December 7. An
eighth attorney was fired earlier.


A calendar entry showed that the subject of the meeting was the
future of US attorneys.


The documents contradict Gonzales's earlier assurances that he
played no active role in the firings that have since mushroomed
into a heated political standoff between Democratic-controlled
Congress and the White House.


The attorney general told reporters two weeks ago that the
dismissals were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson" and that
they "never had a discussion about where things stood."


The unexpected release of the latest documents came after Sampson
earlier Friday informed the Senate Judiciary Committee that he
will testify under oath about the matter.


But while admitting that the meeting between Gonzales and Sampson
took place, Justice Department spokesman Brian Roehrkasse
insisted there was still no proof the two discussed the upcoming
firings.


"The information available to us does not indicate that there was
discussion at this meeting about which US attorneys should or
should not be on the list," Roehrkasse said.


The attorneys were fired ostensibly for poor performance. But
members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received good
performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations the
dismissals were politically motivated.


Critics of the administration were given new ammunition last
Sunday when Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein revealed that San
Diego US attorney Carol Lam had been fired after she notified the
Justice Department that she intended to execute search warrants
on Kyle Dustin "Dusty" Foggo, the third-ranking CIA official at
the time, as part of an anti-corruption investigation.


Foggo was a close friend and associate of former Republican
congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who in late 2005 pleaded
guilty to accepting 2.4 million dollars in bribes and is now in
jail.


Feinstein said Lam had notified the Justice Department of her
search warrant plan on May 10, 2006.


The very next day, Sampson sent an e-mail to deputy White House
counsel William Kelley, asking him to call to discuss "the real
problem we have right now with Carol Lam."


Another ex-attorney, David Iglesias, told a congressional hearing
earlier this month that he was added to the list of those "to be
dismissed" after Senator Pete Domenici and Representative Heather
Wilson, both Republicans from New Mexico, called him to inquire
about progress in a federal corruption probe involving state
Democrats.


And Bud Cummins, the US attorney from Arkansas, was fired,
critics said, to make room for a protege of Karl Rove, the top
political adviser to President George W. Bush.


Two congressional committee have now voted to authorize subpoenas
for Rove and other current and former White House officials to
testify under oath.


Bush has branded these demands a "partisan fishing expedition"
and reaffirmed his support for Gonzales.


But Democrat Charles Schumer, a member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said that if Gonzales's involvement in the firing
proves to be broader than he had publicly admitted, "then he can
no longer serve as attorney general."

