

Wall Street appears to have shaken off its worst fears about the
US economy after a market-friendly outlook from the Federal
Reserve, as it turns to corporate America's pending earnings news
for fresh direction.


US shares received a major boost in the past week after the Fed
announced it was keeping its key short term interest rate
anchored at 5.25 percent and stepped back from hints of future
interest rate hikes.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 3.06 percent over the
week to Friday to end at 12,481.01.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 soared 3.54 percent to
1,436.11 and the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite spiked 3.52
percent to close the week at 2,448.93.


The turning point for Wall Street over the past week, following
volatility in recent weeks linked to worries about a Chinese
stock bubble, was a somewhat ambiguous statement from the Federal
Reserve Wednesday that nonetheless eased concerns about rate
hikes.


Some analysts said the statement may have set the stage for a
future cut in interest rates as US economic growth continues to
slow.


Investors like lower rate environments as cash is cheaper to
borrow.


With its usual cryptic style, the Fed statement dropped a
reference to "firming" or hiking rates, substituting the phrase
"future policy adjustments" that would depend on economic data.


Joel Naroff at Naroff Economic Advisors said the Fed made a major
shift in its stand.


The Fed panel "has moved from talking about the next move being
higher rates to a more neutral stance," he said.


"Since to get from forward to reverse you have to go through
neutral, this action implies the possibility of a rate cut at one
of the next few meetings. This was a critical and surprising
change in stance."


But, Marc Pado, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said the stock
market "got a little bit overexcited about the Fed admitting the
obvious."


Pado said that based on the latest message from the Fed, "They're
not going to cut rates in May, unless something dramatic
happens."


But he noted that "as we go forward there is a little bit more
confidence that should things worsen the Fed will act to prevent
a recession."


Fred Dickson, a chief market strategist at DA Davidson & Co.,
said Wall Street may consolidate in the coming week after its
hefty gains as investors assess prospects for corporate earnings
for the quarter to March 31.


Investors are likely to take cues from the latest set of
corporate earnings, which could act as further stimulant to
sentiment or depress optimism if earnings disappoint.


"Wall Street seems to be settling down after Wednesday's (Fed)
meeting." Dickson said.


"Near-term, the stock market looks a little extended and could be
ripe for a very small pullback. We are entering earnings warning
season. With the (Fed) sending a message that current economic
growth is mixed, some portfolio managers may show some restraint
on the buy-side until we get well into earnings season."


In the coming week, investors will be pouring over fresh reports
on new home sales, consumer confidence and consumer spending
among other releases.


Monday's new home sales report is likely to attract particular
attention amid the current housing downturn.


Most analysts expect new homes sales to have improved last month
to 995,000 units, compared with sales of 937,000 in the prior
month.


Bond prices dropped over the week as investors moved back into
stocks.


The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.613 percent from
4.545 percent a week earlier and the 30-year bond yield climbed
to 4.799 percent against 4.695 percent. Bond yields and prices
move in opposite directions.

