

The US government on Friday ruled out securing a free-trade
agreement with Malaysia before President George W. Bush loses his
"fast-track" trade promotion authority in three months.


"We made clear to the Malaysian government the requirements of
our Trade Promotion Authority and that, at this point, submission
of a US-Malaysia FTA under the current TPA statute is not
possible," Steve Norton, spokesman for US Trade Representative
Susan Schwab, said in a statement.


Bush loses his TPA power, which allows deals to be fast-tracked
through the Democratic-led Congress, at the end of June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review.


The Bush administration is moving rapidly to forge an free trade
agreement with South Korea before the end-March deadline, with
last-minute talks scheduled in Seoul next week on sensitive areas
such as agriculture, automobiles and pharmaceuticals.


If a deal is concluded with South Korea, it would be the biggest
FTA since the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement linking
the United States, Canada and Mexico.


The Malaysia pact got bogged down within the government of Prime
Minister Abdullah Badawi, in particular over Malaysia's
affirmative action policy that provides special privileges to
indigenous ethnic Malay-owned firms.


While some state contracts are open to competition from foreign
companies, Washington wants more transparency in the bidding
process.


"Transparency is a critical component of some of the contentious
issues and the US is basically asking for legal safeguards and
clearer rules, especially  as the affirmative action policy is
without a deadline," said a diplomat familiar with the
negotiations.


Despite the failure to meet the deadline with Malaysia, Norton
said the United States and its 10th largest trading partner had
agreed to forge ahead with talks.


A Malaysian team is scheduled to come to the United States in
mid-April for consultations.


"We look forward to concluding a high-quality, comprehensive FTA,
and obtaining legislative approval of such an agreement," the
spokesman said.


The two sides launched their talks about a year ago and Norton
said "significant progress has been made toward conclusion of
such an agreement, but a number of important issues remain
outstanding."


After the last round of talks, Malaysian officials informed
Washington that they needed time to seek a political consensus
within their cabinet on how to proceed on issues such as the
affirmative action regime.


"Resolution of that process is a necessary step before the
negotiations can continue," Norton said.


"As we have stated repeatedly, however, substance, not timing, is
the determinative factor that will guide our participation in
these negotiations."


Any agreement secured after the March 31 deadline would make
congressional approval a complex exercise.


Bush's fast-track authority forces Congress to vote on deals
quickly -- it must hold straight yes-or-no votes, without the
option for lawmakers to file amendments.


Asked about the fate of a Malaysia-US deal secured after March
31, Norton said: "It is impossible to speculate what Congress
will do with regard to TPA."

