

Jamaicans on Friday expressed outrage over the murder of
Pakistani cricket coach Bob Woolmer, but the shock and the tight
security failed to dampen their enthusiasm as the West Indies
took on Ireland in the World Cup contest.


"It's shocking and most unfortunate it happened here in Jamaica
during the World Cup," said Kevin Lawrence, a 40-year-old
accountant, as he headed with his young son to Kingston's Sabina
Park to watch what he said would be a certain victory by the
Caribbean team.


"But the game must go on," said Lawrence, visibly as excited as
his nine-year- old boy, who proudly pointed to the West Indies
T-shirt and matching cap he had bought for the occasion.


"From what I heard, Woolmer would have wanted that," he said as
he walked toward the high gates set up outside the stadium.


International Cricket Council chief executive Malcolm Speed said
earlier that despite "a profound sense of shock" at the murder,
the game of cricket "cannot be put off by a cowardly criminal
act."


A former England international, Woolmer, 58, was found in his
hotel room on Sunday and declared dead upon arrival at the
hospital, one day after Pakistan's stunning defeat to Ireland,
which saw the 1992 World Cup winners bounced out of this year's
competition.


Police announced on Thursday that a pathologist's report showed
Woolmer had been strangled to death.


Jamaicans, who braved seasonal downpours to attend Friday's game,
expressed fears the killing would further hurt the image of the
Caribbean island known for its palm-fringed beaches but also for
its high crime rates.


A number of fans insisted the murder could not have been the work
of Jamaicans, and blamed criminals involved in bookmaking and
match-fixing rackets.


"It's bigger than us, it's obviously the work of an underworld
mafia," said Oliver Powell, 44, who suggested, apparently
jokingly, he himself lived off shady dealings.


"We have plenty of crime, but not that kind."


"Strangling is not part of our crime culture. Our culture is
guns, knives and stones," he said as soldiers armed with
automatic rifles and clad in combat uniforms slowly cruised along
a sealed off road leading to Sabina Park, also patrolled by
police clad in bullet-proof vests.


Like many other cricket fans on this Caribbean island, Powell
expressed confidence the West Indies team would not only defeat
Ireland, but would go on to claim the World Cup.


Both the West Indies and Ireland have already secured their
places in the Super Eights, but the outcome of Friday's match
will be vital, since the winning side will start the next stage
of the competition with the two points they will gain from
victory.


The enthusiasm for the game was evident across Kingston, where
those who could not afford the entrance fee to Sabina Park
huddled around radio sets, and some employers found themselves
forced to let staff out early.


At the international airport, an immigration supervisor
complained some officials had gone missing.


"They better not be watching the game," she said with a stern
look on her face and what sounded like a tinge of envy in her
voice.

