

European Union leaders gather in Berlin Saturday for a weekend of
EU-wide 50th anniversary celebrations, plagued by differences
over how the bloc should tackle the challenges ahead.


With concert halls and galleries around the continent holding
special events, leaders of the EU's three main institutions will
unveil Sunday the political centrepiece of the festivities: the
"Berlin Declaration."


Union in Europe has brought peace, prosperity and unity, a single
market, a euro currency that can be spent from Ireland to Greece,
and visa-free travel on low- cost airlines to help people do it.


But 50 years after the signing in 1957 of the Treaty of Rome,
which laid the foundation for today's EU, the almost half a
billion citizens need to be reassured about Europe's future
direction.


The declaration -- which starts "We the citizens of the European
Union" -- was prepared behind closed doors by envoys from the 27
member countries, without public consultation, and will not be
signed by the leaders themselves.


While the need to win back public confidence has rarely been
greater, it is unclear whether this document can help achieve
that.


"We need to inspire Europe's citizens with a vision for the next
50 years," European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso told the
Italian senate Friday.


Barroso will sign the text along with German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, representing the member states as current EU president,
and European Parliament President Hans-Gert Poettering.


"We have to convince them that the European Union is the best
answer to 21st century challenges like globalisation, sustainable
growth and competitiveness, political solidarity, energy supply,
climate change, and security," he said.


The EU has been suffering through a deep political malaise since
mid-2005, when French and Dutch voters rejected a planned
constitution, and the member countries do not agree about what
parts of it to keep.


The treaty was meant to simplify the way the EU operates as it
expands, and establish a longer-term president and a foreign
minister. It has been ratified by 18 member states, but all 27
must do so for it to enter force.


Its failure highlighted a deep gulf between the lofty ambitions
of the EU's elites and the concerns of citizens worried about
their jobs or the way the Union has expanded; especially attempts
to bring in mainly-Muslim Turkey.


After a sleepless night for party goers in clubs from Rome to
Brussels, the text will be released in Berlin listing Europe's
future challenges as the fight against terrorism, poverty and
racism, a new energy policy and global warming.


Merkel, Barroso and Poettering -- all conservatives -- will sign
on to a commitment to resolve the constitutional impasse by 2009,
when the next European elections will be held.


But even this goal -- which could help prove that the EU can get
its house in order -- has been controversial.


"The fact that the declaration will be signed by the presidency,
the commission and the parliament is quite indicative," an
official from one member country said, on condition of anonymity.


"You will not see the British or the Polish or the Czechs for
that matter signing a declaration to that effect," he said.


A German presidency official suggested that Merkel managed Friday
to change the Czech premier's mind.


The other divisive issue -- continued EU enlargement -- is
skirted.


"The term 'enlargement' will not be mentioned," the presidency
official said, acknowledging that "the member states have
different positions" about how big the rich European club should
become.


Official events begin at 5:30 pm (1630 GMT) with a concert of the
Berlin Philharmonic conducted by Sir Simon Rattle.


They will close on Sunday, when the leaders are scheduled to pose
for a family photograph at the Brandenburg Gate, a symbol of
European unity, just yards from where the Berlin Wall divided
Germany.

