

The leader of Northern Ireland's main Protestant party seemed no
closer Saturday to forming a power-sharing executive with
Catholic bitter foes, as the clock ticks down to Monday's
deadline.


All eyes are on Ian Paisley, 80, the hardline head of the
conservative Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), as the all-or-
nothing midnight Monday (2300 GMT) deadline to revive self-rule
in the province approaches.


Paisley, dubbed "Doctor No", faces the DUP's 120-member executive
in Belfast on Saturday. He would become Northern Ireland's first
minister -- if the party decides it will nominate ministers to a
power-sharing administration.


The Guardian newspaper said the British government believes
Paisley would like to form an executive, sensing most Protestants
back the idea.


Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain has set a
midnight Saturday (0000 GMT Sunday) deadline on the DUP to
confirm Paisley's candidature. Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein's
chief negotiator, is in line to be his deputy.


Catholic socialists Sinn Fein are the political wing of the Irish
Republican Army (IRA), which renounced violence in 2005.


They want Northern Ireland integrated into the Republic of
Ireland, whereas the DUP favour the province remaining as part of
the United Kingdom.


Without a deal by midnight Monday, Britain and Ireland have said
the Northern Ireland Assembly will be axed and the province run
from London indefinitely. The assembly was suspended in 2002
following a breakdown in trust.


Paisley held intense negotiations Friday with Prime Minister Tony
Blair. The British premier is eager to revive cross-party self-
government in Northern Ireland as he looks to shore up his legacy
in his final months before quitting office.


But the DUP are seeking further concessions from the British
government, and assurances that Sinn Fein's recent vow to back
the forces of British law and order will hold.


Paisley told The Times newspaper this week, in comments published
Saturday: "I believe that Sinn Fein/IRA are as unsuitable for
government today as they ever were.


"We are about to see nothing other than gangsters and Mafia-like
figures being elevated to government, men whose hands are stained
with the blood of victims of terrorism. No amount of oaths of
office can wash away that blood.


"If Martin McGuinness and (Sinn Fein president) Gerry Adams
really do have the regard they now profess for the workings of
justice in this land then they should be knocking at the door of
the director of public prosecutions and offering themselves for
trial."


Government sources conceded that if an executive was agreed upon
in time, then it need not meet again until April.


"So long as they cross the Rubicon, the DUP can take a breather
on the bank on the other side," a source told The Guardian.


Another government source said Paisley's meeting Thursday with
the DUP executive "went 10 times worse than we expected, and now
he is looking for a big concession we do not have."

