

The EU presidency on Friday called for calm in Somalia after
three days of fierce fighting killed at least 24 in the capital
Mogadishu and a cargo plane was shot down by suspected
insurgents.


"The presidency ... views with grave concern the recent fighting
in Mogadishu. It condemns the presumed shooting down of a plane
and calls on all parties to end the fighting immediately," a
statement said.


It said it welcomed the conclusion of a reported ceasefire
agreement between the Ethiopian Army and the Hawiye Clan on
Thursday and said it saw this as an "important step towards a
permanent cessation of hostilities."


Fighting later in the day between the two sides suggested that
any agreement had not lasted long.


The EU reiterated its support for the Transitional Federal
Institutions (TFI) as the only legitimate authorities in Somalia
and calls upon the TFI leadership, as well as on all parties
concerned, to exercise maximum restraint.


"The EU urges the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) to reach
out to all Somalis of good will, in a spirit of national
reconciliation, and to launch a genuine National Reconciliation
congress," it said, adding it was ready to support such a process
financially and politically.


An inclusive political and institutional process should fully
engage civil society and all key stakeholders, including clan
elders, Islamic leaders, representatives of the business
community, civil society and women, it added.


Earlier on Friday a Belarussian cargo aircraft with 11 people on
board crashed in northern Mogadishu shortly after takeoff after
being hit by a rocket, Somali government spokesman Hussein
Mohamed Muhamoud told AFP.


There were no details on casualties immediately available on the
plane or on the ground.


The aircraft had brought in engineers and equipment to repair
another cargo aircraft chartered by the African Union
peacekeeping mission being deployed in Somalia that was hit by a
rocket two weeks ago.


The incident came as fighting erupted for a third straight day in
Mogadishu, breaking a ceasefire agreement between Somalia's
powerful Hawiye clan and the Ethiopian army made only hours
earlier.

