

Pakistan's cricket chief said on Friday that a gambling mafia was
not behind the murder of national team coach Bob Woolmer.


Naseem Ashraf also said Pakistan's cricket team, due to return
home on Saturday, were not suspects in the killing and suggested
the players may themselves be under threat.


"There is no truth in the reports that Bob was killed by gambling
mafia. If it is true then it is the responsibility of Jamaican
police officials to unveil the real faces," Ashraf told a press
conference in Islamabad.


Jamaican police have said Woolmer probably knew the killer who
strangled him in his hotel room at the World Cup on Sunday, in a
crime that sparked rumours of involvement by match-fixing gangs.


Ashraf, chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board, said earlier that
any suggestion the team was targeted in the police investigation
was ridiculous.


"No, there is no suspicion on the Pakistan team. This is
ridiculous," Ashraf told AFP. "The Pakistani team were at the
hotel like everyone else (and) they gave their statements, they
were never interrogated.


"The whole team is under a lot of trauma and stress."


Ashraf said at the press conference that there had been no
restrictions on the players' movements since Woolmer's death.


But they had been moved to a "secure environment" in Montego Bay
"because we were worried about their safety."


"Our main worry and interest at this time is to focus attention
on their safety and get them home to their families as soon as
possible," he said.


He did not reveal who might threaten the players, nor did he
explain why he had ruled out gambling mafia as having played a
role in Woolmer's death.


Ashraf also said President Pervez Musharraf had not accepted his
resignation as PCB chairman, which he offered earlier this week
after Pakistan's humiliating exit to Ireland last Saturday.


"My resignation has not been accepted by President Musharraf and
until acceptance of my resignation I will work as PCB chairman,"
he said.


Pakistan's players have given statements to police and were
fingerprinted before leaving for Montego Bay, where they would
stay before returning home.


"Pakistan players and officials are mentally stressed. However we
(will) ensure full cooperation in the investigation and, after
the return of the team to Pakistan, we will continue to cooperate
with Jamaican police officials...," he said.

