

Sri Lanka stormed into the World Cup Super Eights after virtually
knocking India out of the tournament with an emphatic 69-run win
here on Friday.


Mahela Jayawardene's Sri Lankans qualified with an all-win record
in the four- team group, meaning they will also carry forward two
crucial points in the next round.


India's batting crumbled in the must-win game as they were bowled
out for 185 chasing a 255-run target on a good pitch to put in
their worst performance in the event since the 1979 edition in
England.


They were the champions in 1983, semi-finalists in 1987 and 1996,
and runners-up in 2003. This time, they could manage just one win
in three matches, against debutants Bermuda.


Skipper Rahul Dravid, batting with a runner in the later part of
his innings due to cramp, top-scored with 60 but that not good
enough for his under-performing team despite enjoying the crowd
support.


Bangladesh, who shocked India in their opening match, now have a
chance to make it to the next round for the first time since
their Cup debut in 1999 as they face Bermuda in their last Group
B game here on Sunday.


Sri Lanka had more than one hero in their victory, with Upul
Tharanga (64) and Chamara Silva (59) scoring solid half-centuries
and off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan and seamer Chaminda Vaas
tightening the screws on India.


"I'm very happy and all credit to the boys. We batted in
difficult conditions and then we bowled and fielded well," said
Sri Lankan captain Jayawardene.


"Vaas and Muralitharan were brilliant. We knew we could put
pressure on them by getting early wickets."


Man-of-the-match Muralitharan (3-41) also held a superb running
catch at mid-off to account for Sourav Ganguly (seven).


Veteran left-arm fast bowler Vaas began it when he reacted
sharply to hold a return catch to remove Robin Uthappa and then
dismissed Ganguly in his disciplined opening spell.


Batting star Sachin Tendulkar also failed to sparkle as he fell
for a duck, inside-edging a Dilhara Fernando delivery on to his
stumps to leave his team tottering at 44-3.


Virender Sehwag sustained India's hopes with a 54-run stand for
the fourth wicket with Dravid before being caught at lone slip by
Jayawardene off Muralitharan.


Sehwag offered a difficult chance to wicket-keeper Kumar
Sangakkara off Fernando when on 39, but failed to capitalise on
it. He hit one six and five fours in his 46-ball 48.


The roof fell in on India when Yuvraj Singh was run out going for
a risky single and Mahendra Dhoni was trapped leg-before by
Muralitharan at the same total of 112.


"We didn't have a good partnership. We lost too many early
wickets and that put us under pressure. They played very well,"
said Dravid.


India earlier bowled well for a major part of the innings before
losing their way in the closing 10 overs which yielded 75 runs,
thanks to Silva's third successive half-century.


Silva put on 83 for the fifth wicket off just 80 balls with
Tillakaratne Dilshan (38), ensuring his team crossed the
250-mark.


Seamers Zaheer Khan (2-49), Munaf Patel (1-46) and Ajit Agarkar
(1-33) all bowled tightly on a pitch which offered movement and
bounce early in the innings.


Dravid elected to field after winning the toss and his new-ball
bowlers did not let him down as both Zaheer and Agarkar exploited
the conditions superbly.


Veteran Sanath Jayasuriya (six), Jayawardene (seven) and
Sangakkara (15) all fell cheaply before Silva and Dilshan
succeeded in neutralising India's early advantage with their
sensible knocks.

