

Threatened by the Taliban and corrupt police, regarded with
suspicion and in danger of capture, Afghan journalists say they
risk their lives working in the lawless south.


In the city of Kandahar, reporters installed in a "press centre"
in a local hotel spend much of their time rushing to the scenes
of bombings and counting the dead and wounded in front of the
ripped-up body of a suicide attacker.


This small group of men, many of them freelancers for foreign
media, say security has deteriorated over the past year, pointing
to an ambush that included rocket-propelled grenade fire in the
city and several assassinations.


Now, they say, the risks are even higher, with the freeing March
19 of an Italian journalist in exchange for five Taliban
prisoners -- a deal widely condemned as setting a dangerous
precedent.


"The freeing on Monday of the Italian journalist was a victory
for the Taliban," says Fazal Rahman, president of a journalists'
union in Kandahar.


"They (the Taliban) know now that they can get what they want by
kidnapping a journalist. It is difficult to feel secure in that
context."


Militants seized Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo in Helmand, a
flashpoint of the Taliban insurgency, neighbouring Kandahar. They
beheaded his Afghan driver and have not yet released his Afghan
translator.


Moving outside of Kandahar city has long been difficult because
of Taliban, corrupt police and bandits operating on some roads,
says journalist Salih Mohammad Salih. But now it "must be 10
times more dangerous."


The arrival of an Afghan "asking strange questions" and in a
tribal area that is not under government control can arouse
suspicion, says the young man, one of a few journalists who
regularly visit Helmand.


"I originally come from that province. They know my tribe, my
family, but despite that, I do not say I am a journalist," says
the reporter for Azadi radio, the Pashtun service of Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty.


"It is sometimes difficult to know who you are dealing with," he
says.


"I know if the Taliban arrest me, it is the end for me. I work
for 'infidel' media. And my government will never help me," he
says.


In parts of the south like Helmand, where military officials
acknowledge that remote areas are in militant control, even those
representing the government can encounter problems.


"On one side is the Taliban who threaten us because we report on
what NATO is doing and on the other the local authorities who
don't want us to talk to the Taliban," Salih says.


"It is an area without law where the Taliban, like the security
forces, are a threat."


Abdullah Shahood, a reporter with the Al-Jazeera network, says
the high rate of illiteracy in the south is also a problem.


"People do not know what the job of a journalist is," he says.


The insurgency, that started after the Taliban was removed from
government in late 2001, makes heavy use of propaganda as all
sides try to persuade ordinary Afghans they are right.


Top Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah, the man who held the
Italian journalist, -- and accused him at first of being a spy --
last year threatened those who spread "lies" for the foreign
forces.


He has also said that the killing of journalists working for
"infidels" was allowed by Islamic Sharia law.


Foreign reporters who embed with NATO troops in Kandahar are
reminded of the threat when they arrive.


"Journalists have become targets of great value for the Taliban,"
says John Nethercott, a spokesman for Canadian troops.

