

The United Nations and European Union called on rival forces in
the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on Friday to resolve their
differences peacefully after two days of bloody fighting in the
capital.


More than 60 people have died in the confrontation between
government troops and guards loyal to defeated presidential
candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba that appeared to have ended by the
evening.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement that the
country had "reached a critical turning point" and needed to
"turn away from violence and to actively pursue political
dialogue at all levels."


The UN mission in DRC, known by its French acronym, MONUC,
welcomed the end of fighting but stressed the government's
responsiblity to deal with the aftermath "responsibly".


"The DRC government has assumed its responsibilities in resolving
this situation. Accordingly, MONUC calls on the government to
continue to act responsibly in its handling of the follow-up," it
said in a statement.


"The government will have to restore confidence in its judgement
by the way in which it treats the defeated militia, who have
largely now surrendered."


The violence flared on Thursday after growing tensions over moves
to absorb Bemba's forces into the regular army.


The two day battle was the first in the city since Joseph Kabila
won last year's presidential elections, following a second round
victory overb Bemba.


"The international community, and especially the European Union,
will not accept that the Congolese democratic experiment, a major
success for the African continent, is jeopardised," EU foreign
policy chief Javier Solana said.


EU Development Commissioner Louis Michel, who has been in
frequent contact with Bemba and President Joseph Kabila, said
legal order must be respected.


"The Congolese people have clearly come out in favour of peace
and national reconciliation. The democratic gains of recent
months cannot be put at risk," he said in a statement.


South Africa, a key contributor to the peace process in the DRC,
appealed "to all forces in the DRC to immediately stop fighting"
and take part in negotiations, deputy foreign minister Aziz Pahad
told reporters in Pretoria.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett called on Kabila and
Bemba to "resolve their differences by negotiation in the same
spirit which ended the civil war and brought fresh hope to their
country".


"The Democratic Republic of Congo has suffered enough," she
added.


France meanwhile urged both sides to "work to find a peaceful,
joint and lasting solution to the current crisis," foreign
ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei told reporters.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades.


Since his election as a senator, Bemba has refused to have his
vice-presidential bodyguard integrated into the regular army,
arguing that his personal security could not be guaranteed.

