

The Security Council was set to slap new UN sanctions on Iran
Saturday over its nuclear defiance with the Iranian foreign
minister due to attend the session to defend his country's right
to conduct uranium enrichment.


After a week-long round of tough bargaining, the 15 council
members reached broad agreement late Friday on an amended draft
resolution that expanded UN sanctions already imposed on Iran in
December for spurning repeated demands to freeze its sensitive
nuclear fuel work.


The Council was set to meet at 3:00 pm (1900 GMT) for the vote,
which is to be attended by Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki, South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the council
president for March, said late Friday.


"We are confident that tomorrow we will secure that resolution
unanimously. We made three minor changes this evening and we hope
those changes will carry when capitals discuss them," Britain's
UN ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of the sponsors, said late
Friday.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, meanwhile, canceled plans
to attend Saturday's Security Council session, arguing that
Washington had been late in issuing him a visa.


"Any suggestion that visa issues are the cause of President
Ahmadinejad's decision not to travel to New York is false," US
deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey however retorted.


The draft resolution would ban Tehran from exporting arms,
calling for voluntary trade sanctions and expanding a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It was worked out last week by the five veto-wielding permanent
members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
-- plus non-member Germany.


It builds on the December sanctions which included a ban on the
sale of nuclear and ballistic missile-related materials to Iran
and a freeze on financial assets of Iranians involved in illicit
atomic and ballistic missile work.


The six major powers late Friday agreed to minor changes to the
text to accommodate concerns expressed by South Africa, Indonesia
and Qatar, three council non-permanent members.


In a concession to Indonesia and Qatar, the sponsors agreed to
insert in the draft a paragrah referring to a 2006 resolution of
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) stating that "a
solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute ... to
realizing the objectives of a Middle East free of weapons of mass
destruction."


They also placated South Africa by including an explicit
reference to the latest report of IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei
and by reaffirming the "authority" and leading role of the IAEA
in "verifying compliance with safeguards agreements, including
the non-diversion of nuclear material for non-peaceful purposes."


The sanctions draft came in response to Iran's adamant refusal to
bow to UN demands to halt uranium enrichment, which major powers
suspect is a cover to seek to acquire nuclear weapons.


But Tehran rejects the charge, insists its nuclear program is
aimed solely at generating electricity and maintains that as a
signatory to the nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty it cannot be
denied the the right to conduct uranium enrichment.


The vote was to take place a day after 15 British navy sailors
were seized by Iran as they were conducting "routine" anti-
smuggling checks in Iraqi waters Friday, according to the British
Ministry of Defense.

