

Former India great Kapil Dev lashed out at Rahul Dravid's under-
performing team on Saturday, saying they did not deserve to
progress in the World Cup.


Another great Sunil Gavaskar hinted coach Greg Chappell's future
was on the line after India were virtually knocked out of the
World Cup following the 69-run defeat against Sri Lanka on
Friday.


Only an unlikely victory by first-timers Bermuda over Bangladesh
on Sunday will ensure India's back-door entry into the Super
Eights, a prospect Dev did not welcome.


"It is shameful that we have to rely on Bermuda to stay in the
tournament," the 1983 World Cup winning captain said on Aaj Tak
television.


"I hope that does not happen because Bangladesh deserve to go
into the second round since they had also defeated India.


"All credit to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. India were pathetic and
not good enough to remain in the tournament."


Gavaskar, speaking on ESPN, said he doubted if former Australian
captain Chappell's contract as India coach will be renewed after
the World Cup.


"I think there is a big question mark on Greg's future," said
Gavaskar, who was on the panel which appointed Chappell for a
two-year term in 2005.


"He was brought in with the specific aim of taking India to the
top two teams in the world and that has not happened. His
position will be debated."


Gavaskar urged the Indian cricket board to act quickly since
India are due to tour Bangladesh for two Test matches and three
one-day internationals in May.


Gavaskar, however, hoped that Dravid would remain captain despite
the World Cup debacle.


"Rahul is 34 and you do not sack captains at 34 when they are
peaking," he said.


"I don't see any reason for a change because Dravid has not shown
any sign of pressure. His batting has not faltered."


Disappointed Indian fans did not react violently as they had done
last week after the defeat by Bangladesh when miscreants attack
wicket-keeper Mahendra Dhoni's unfinished house in the eastern
town of Ranchi.


"Of course I am disgusted by the way the team played, the whole
lot should be sacked," said Delhi student Shaumik Bose. "But
damaging homes is no way to go about it."


Dev blamed lack of commitment by the senior players for the
defeat, while Gavaskar said the team did not have the temperament
to deal with crunch situations.


"To raise the game when it matters most requires discipline and
temperament and the players did not show it," said Gavaskar.


"This is nothing new. Indian cricketers have lacked these
qualities since a long time, ever since I began playing in the
early 1970s'."

