

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice flew to Egypt Saturday
seeking to spur Arab allies to reinvigorate a dormant plan for
peace with Israel that she hopes may hold the key to keeping
alive fractured Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.


Rice is scheduled to hold talks in the southern Egyptian city of
Aswan with officials from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the
United Arab Emirates -- the so-called Arab Quartet which
Washington has been trying to enlist in its efforts to stabilise
Iraq and resurrect Israeli-Palestinian talks.


She will also meet Sunday with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
for talks likely to be overshadowed by US complaints about
controversial constitutional changes being pushed by his
government.


Rice said her discussions with the Quartet will focus on US
desires to see an Arab League summit next week in Riyadh formally
endorse a renewal of the five- year-old Arab initiative for a
peace deal with Israel.


The plan offered recognition of the Jewish state if it returns to
its 1967 borders, permits the creation of an independent
Palestinian state and allows the return of Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative when it was
first made by Saudi Arabia in 2002.


But Israeli leaders have recently spoken more positively of the
ideas as starting points for negotiations and as long as they
were revised to specify that Palestinian refugees could return to
Palestinian-controlled areas, not to parts of the Jewish state.


Speaking with reporters ahead of her trip, Rice sidestepped
questions about whether she would press for changes in the Arab
plan to meet Israel's concerns, saying it was not up to the
United States to make such suggestions.


But she went on to argue that the Arab states needed to
reinvigorate the plan, turning it from a set of static
"principles" that leaves all the work to Israel into an active
diplomatic endeavor involving negotiations with the Jewish state.


"This is going to be a process of coming to a place where the
Arab initiative is really an active initiative -- that is
structured discussions between parties," she said. "I don't think
we're there yet."


To date, only Jordan and Egypt have relations with Israel, though
there have been discreet contacts between senior Israeli and
Saudi officials over the years.


In Rice's view, the Arab initiative would provide a parallel
track for peace efforts to run alongside her frustrated drive to
breathe life into Israeli- Palestinian negotiations that have
been moribund for nearly seven years.


Rice has made breaking the deadlock and getting Israelis and
Palestinians onto the path towards a permanent two-state peace
deal a centerpiece of the Bush administration's last two years in
office.


But despite making 10 previous trips to the region over the past
two years, Rice has made virtually no progress.


Her efforts were undercut by a power-sharing deal reached last
month between the US-backed Palestinian president, Mahmud Abbas,
and the radical Islamic movement Hamas, which the United States,
Israel and EU consider a terrorist group.


Under the deal, Abbas' moderate Fatah party joined a Hamas-led
"unity" government, torpedoing a months-long US effort to
sideline the Islamists by brokering direct peace talks between
Israel and Abbas.


Israel has ruled out any dealings with the unity government and
Rice said Friday that she had not even attempted to organise a
three-way meeting with Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert when she visits Jerusalem following her one- day Egypt
stop.


She did manage to bring the two men together during her last trip
in February, but the encounter yielded few if any concrete
results.


While Washington has agreed to contacts with non-Hamas members of
the new Palestinian government, Rice held out little hope of any
quick progress on the Israeli-Palestinian front.


"It's almost, at this point, more important given the upcoming
Riyadh summit to have the discussions with the Arabs about
relaunching the Arab initiative," she said Friday.

