

The dollar gained traction against most major currencies Friday
after stronger- than-expected figures on US home sales eased
concerns about the housing market, and the overall economy.


The euro dropped to 1.3286 dollars at 2000 GMT after 1.3328 late
Thursday in New York.


The dollar was meanwhile trading at 118.05 yen, little changed
from 118.07 on Thursday.


US home sales rose 3.9 percent in February as the struggling real
estate market showed some signs of a rebound, industry data
showed Friday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home
sales improved to an annualized pace of 6.69 million, well ahead
of market expectations of a pace of 6.30 million.


The monthly report also showed signs that lower prices --
following a long boom in the property market that ended last year
-- are starting to stimulate sales.


"The February existing home sales report added another dimension
to speculation surrounding one of the most besieged sectors in
the US," said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


"When the indicator ran across the wires with an unexpected
improvement, the dollar quickly turned higher against most of the
majors,"


But enthusiasm was tempered by news that the median sales price
fell 1.3 percent to 212,800 dollars, the seventh decline in a
row.


The property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector.


Kicklighter said the housing market and the dollar may not be out
of the woods yet.


He said most of the February data came before the crunch in the
"subprime" credit markets.


"In the end, the forecast for the housing market is still
bearish," he said


But according to analyst Jamie Coleman at Thomson's IFR Markets:
"One thing is clear that was not early this week: the US is not
in danger of sliding headlong into recession."


Coleman added: "Home sales are near a three-year high,  ...
employment remains strong and stocks have recovered much of their
losses of recent weeks."


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2185 Swiss francs
from 1.2143 late Thursday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9613 dollars after 1.9643.

