

Senior US Treasury official Daniel Glaser is heading back to
China to try to break a banking impasse that saw North Korea walk
out of nuclear talks this week, the Treasury said Friday.


"The policy and diplomatic issues have been solved -- this is now
down to implementation," Glaser, the deputy assistant secretary
for terrorist financing and financial crimes, said ahead of his
trip to Beijing Saturday.


Battling to unblock a financial dispute that has stalled nuclear
disarmament talks, negotiators are trying to find a bank outside
China to receive North Korean funds that lie frozen in a bank in
Macau, South Korea's envoy said.


The United States on Monday said it had cleared the way for the
release of the 25 million dollars from Banco Delta Asia (BDA) in
Macau.


But the designated recipient, the Bank of China, has refused to
accept the money for fear the transaction may hurt its credit
rating, said Chun Young-Woo, Seoul's chief nuclear negotiator.


"The Macanese and Chinese have made clear that they want to
ensure implementation of the agreement is consistent with their
own laws and with their international obligations," Glaser said
in a statement.


"We are bringing Treasury expertise to help the Macanese and
Chinese wade through some of these implementation issues," he
said.


The latest round of six-party disarmament talks -- grouping the
two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- ended
abruptly in Beijing on Thursday after Pyongyang refused to
negotiate until it receives the cash.


In late 2005, the United States effectively blacklisted BDA on
suspicion it was handling the proceeds of North Korean
counterfeiting and money-laundering, prompting Macau authorities
to freeze the North's accounts there.


The Treasury Department also persuaded banks in Singapore,
Vietnam and elsewhere to shut down North Korean accounts --
effectively shutting the communist state out of much of the
international banking system.


Envoys to the six-party talks came together on Monday for their
first meeting since a February 13 accord that set a timetable for
the North to begin disarming.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
insisted Friday the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill said in Beijing before
flying back to Washington.

