

Legendary escape artist Harry Houdini  spent his life mesmerizing
people, and relatives are now wondering if his death by illness
was also an illusion -- was he in fact murdered?


Digging into a mystery worthy of Sherlock Holmes -- whose
creator, Arthur Conan Doyle, could even be implicated -- the last
surviving relative of the master illusionist said Friday he
wanted to exhume Houdini's remains to find out if he was
poisoned.


When the Hungarian-born magician died in 1926, few questioned the
official explanation that he died of peritonitis caused by a
ruptured appendix.


But now a group of researchers, forensic pathologists and the
master showman's grandnephew say he may have been murdered by a
circle of psychics desperate to see him dead.


"Ordinarily, I would say let the dead rest in peace," said George
Hardeen, whose grandfather was Houdini's younger brother.
"However I believe the country and the world have a right to know
the whole truth about Houdini's death."


Hardeen's lawyer, Joseph Tacopina, said that advances in forensic
science had spurred Hardeen to call for the exhumation of
Houdini, who found fame being handcuffed inside nailed-down boxes
and plunged into tanks of water, and then magically fighting his
way to survive.


The most commonly accepted account of his death describes how a
student in Canada asked Houdini if he could withstand a blow to
the stomach, before repeatedly punching him in the gut.


Accounts of the incident suggest Houdini, who had not properly
prepared himself, crumpled in pain and died days later of a
ruptured appendix. The explanation has since been dismissed as
medically impossible.


"Evidence has come to light 80 years after his passing which
shrouds his death in as much mystery as that which enveloped his
life -- evidence which suggests that he may have been poisoned,"
Tacopina said.


It is well known that Houdini made enemies by trying to expose
mediums in the then-popular spiritualist movement, accusing them
of extorting money from the bereaved with bogus claims that they
could contact the dead.


One of those in the movement who fell out with Houdini was crime
writer Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of fictional detective
Sherlock Holmes.


Tacopina suggested Houdini may also have been killed by Margery
Crandon, a well known medium, or her husband. Houdini had been
investigating the disappearance of young boys the couple had
adopted.


"There was a motive to murder Harry Houdini," said Tacopina. "No
autopsy was ever done on Harry Houdini, and the Spiritualist
movement was behind the cover up," he added.


The Crandons' great granddaughter, Anna Thurlow, who helped
uncover documents that support the murder theory, gave her
backing for the exhumation.


Recent research, Tacopina added, had uncovered evidence of death
threats against the magician and letters suggesting the he had
been murdered.


A team of pathologists and toxicologists led by renowned forensic
specialist James Starrs is on hand to perform tests on the
remains pending court approval for an exhumation. Legal papers
were due to be filed in New York next week.


Professor Starrs, who was involved in the exhumations of Wild
West outlaw Jesse James and Albert DeSalvo, the Boston strangler,
said the case threw up sufficient doubt about Houdini's death to
warrant exhumation.


"No autopsy was performed. There should have been," he said. "The
question is not whether he died of peritonitis, but whether there
was something more involved in his death."


One theory centers on a mystery medication he was given. Starrs
said that if Houdini had been poisoned, the heavy metals likely
used would have remained in his system. Tests on the bones, hair
and nails of the corpse should be able to establish if there was
any foul play, he said.


"I think we're on our way to a successful exhumation," he added.


The group was not expecting any problems gaining permission to
disinter Houdini's remains, since it already has the support of
Houdini's surviving family and the New York cemetery where he is
buried.


"Houdini's death was misdiagnosed, there's no question about
that... We have good and substantial cause, which is the legal
standard," Tacopina said.

