

World number one Tiger Woods, making two title defenses this
week, fired a bogey-free six-under par 66 here Friday to seize a
two-stroke lead after 36 holes of the World Golf Championship CA
Championship.


Woods stood on seven-under par 137 after the second round of the
eight million- dollar event at Doral's Blue Course, two strokes
ahead of Australian Rod Pampling over a layout better known as
the "Blue Monster".


"I basically kept it clean all day, no dropped shots, and under
these conditions - very proud of that," he said.


Woods has won the US PGA event at Doral the past two years and
captured the World Golf American Express event last year in
England, the event that moved to Doral this year in a major
revamping of the US tournament schedule.


Reigning British Open and PGA Championship winner Woods will seek
his third major in a row and the 13th of his career in two weeks
at the Masters, the first major championship of the year, at
famed Augusta National Golf Club.


Woods opened with a pair of birdies, then began the back nine
with three birdies in a row and cemented his perch atop the
leaderboard with another at the penultimate hole.


Woods was most proud of his birdie at the 17th, where he started
with an awful drive.


Woods was clearly irked by the wayward shot, backing up Geoff
Ogilvy's observation - meant as a compliment - that Woods is "the
angriest guy on the golf course."


Woods said that while he wasn't prone to the kind of tantrums
once indulged in by tennis bad boy John McEnroe, he thought a
little emotion could be beneficial on the course.


"I just think if you understand yourself, you can utilize energy
and to me getting angry a lot of times will help me get into a
deeper sense of concentration where I can be more focused on the
next shot," he said.


Woods was certainly focused on Friday, defying the difficult
conditions that saw just 10 rounds in the 60s.


"Wind conditions are a lot more difficult this year," Woods
said."We have new greens. A lot of guys don't know what's going
on out here with the grain yet."


Pampling managed to avoid some of those problems, jump starting
his round of 69 with an eagle at the par-4 sixth, where he used a
7-iron to hole out from 155 yards.


"I had not made a putt on the front nine, so it took away the
problems of trying to make a putt," Pampling joked. "Whenever you
have a 2 out there, it's definitely a boost to your confidence."


Pampling also birdied the 10th and 11th holes but had two bogeys
and a birdie in his final four holes en route to a 139 total.


"You just like to see the way he gets around the golf course, how
he plays those courses," Pampling said of his many practice
rounds with Woods. "He's pretty open with his information. And
you have some fun out there."


First-round co-leaders Henrik Stenson of Sweden and Robert
Allenby of Australia both struggled.


Stenson carded a 73 to join a group of seven players at 140, a
group that included South African Ernie Els (70).


Allenby had a 74 for 141, part of a group of five that included
Ogilvy (69) and Spain's Sergio Garcia (70).


Fiji's Vijay Singh, who won last week at Bay Hill, was on 142
with Sweden's Niclas Fasth, Argentina's Angel Cabrera and
Americans Brett Wetterich and Stewart Cink.

