

Shivnarine Chanderpaul collected his sixth one-day International
hundred to lead West Indies to a convincing eight-wicket victory
(D/L Method) over Ireland in their rain-affected World Cup Group
D match on Friday at Sabina Park.


Chanderpaul was undefeated on 102 from 113 balls, as West Indies,
chasing a revised target of 190 from 48 overs, struck gold with
59 balls remaining, when Marlon Samuels stroked a waist-high,
full toss from Andrew White over the mid- wicket boundary for
six.


Both West Indies and Ireland have secured their passes to the
Super Eight quarterfinals of the competition, but the outcome of
the match was vital, since it allows the World Cup host to carry
a two-point bonus into the next stage of the competition.


The victory meant West Indies played unbeaten throughout the
group stage and allowed them to top the group with six points,
leaving Ireland second on three points, Pakistan third on two
points, and Zimbabwe last on one.


Both Pakistan and Zimbabwe have been eliminated from the
competition.


West Indies lost Chris Gayle in the fifth over, when he was
caught at deep mid off off Dave Langford-Smith for 18.


But left-hander Chanderpaul put the World Cup hosts firmly on
course for victory, when he added 119 for the second wicket with
West Indies vice-captain Ramnaresh Sarwan, who scored 36 before
he was caught at deep midwicket off Kyle McCallan in the 28th
over.


To raucous cheering and the pounding music from the public
address system, man- of-the-match Chanderpaul reached his
landmark when he drove his 108th ball from Andrew White to long-
off for a single. He struck four sixes and 10 fours.


When Sarwan was dismissed, Samuels came and played sensibly to
ensure West Indies lost no more wickets before ending the match
in grand style to a cacophony of noise from a capacity crowd.


Earlier, Ireland, choosing to bat, were restricted to 183 for
eight from their rain-reduced allocation of 48 overs, and the
target for West Indies was increased under the Duckworth-Lewis
Method which is used to readjust totals in weather-affected
matches.


Jeremy Bray hit the top score for Ireland of 41 from 72 balls,
and Andre Botha gathered 28.


Chris Gayle, Daren Powell, and Dwayne Bravo collected two wickets
apiece for West Indies.


West Indies had early success, when William Porterfield was
caught at first slip off Daren Powell for a duck in the second
over touching a short, rising ball.


Eoin Morgan came and took the sting out of the West Indies attack
with a stand of 58 for the second wicket with Bray. Bray was
given a reprieve on 34, when he drove Daren Powell straight into
the lap of cover fielder Marlon Samuels, who failed to hold, in
the 14th over.


West Indies did not have to wait too long for more success
though. Morgan was caught at deep fine leg off Powell for 18,
when he got carried away, hooked at a short, lifting delivery and
his top edge flew almost 50 yards behind the stumps and keeper
Denesh Ramdin held a superb running catch.


Two wickets in the space of nine balls further slowed Ireland's
progress in the middle of their innings, and left the visitors on
82 for four.


Niall O'Brien was caught behind off Ian Bradshaw for 11 in the
21st over nibbling at a ball moving away, and next over, Bray
drove at a slower ball from Jerome Taylor and was caught at mid-
off for 41.


Kevin O'Brien arrived to consolidate for Ireland in a partnership
of 47 for the fifth wicket with Andre Botha before he swung at a
delivery from Gayle and was caught at deep mid wicket for 12 in
the 36th over.


Gayle struck again in the 40th over, when Botha sliced a pull,
and he was caught at backward point for 28.


Bravo collected the wickets of Andrew White, bowled for 18, and
John Mooney, caught behind, for a duck off successive balls after
a break for rain.


West Indies will again feature in the opening match of the Super
Eight stage of the competition, when they face reigning World
champions Australia next Tuesday at Vivian Richards Stadium in
Antigua.


Ireland meet either England or Kenya in their opening Super Eight
match next Friday at the Providence Stadium in Guyana.

