

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed strong concern
Friday over controversial constitutional amendments being rushed
through a popular referendum by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.


"I'm really concerned about it," Rice told reporters shortly
before leaving Washington for the southern Egyptian city of
Aswan, where she will hold talks with Mubarak.


"This is a really disappointing outcome and we will talk about it
and hopefully it will turn out better than is expected," she said
of the constitutional reforms due to go to a national referendum
on Monday.


Rice said Mubarak, a key US ally, had generated "certain
expectations" for improving democracy in his country "and the
hope was that it would be a process that gave voice to all
Egyptians".


"I think there's some danger that hope is not going to be met,"
she said in reference to the amendments, which Egypt's opposition
says will curb democracy and increase Mubarak's grip on power.


The 34 proposed amendments were passed early this week by the
government- dominated parliament and will put to a popular vote
Monday, 10 days earlier than originally planned.


The main opposition parties have said they will boycott the vote.


Rice said the "abbreviated timetable is a problem" for the US
government, which provides Mubarak's regime with 1.8 billion
dollars in aid each year.


Rice said she would raise her concerns with Mubarak and Egyptian
Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit when she meets them in Aswan
Saturday and Sunday.


"As the Middle East moves towards greater openness and greater
pluralism and greater democraticization, Egypt's got to be in the
lead. It's disappointing that this has not happened," she said.


Some of the most contested constitutional amendments would allow
the authorities to arrest suspects, search their homes, read
their mail and tap their phones without a warrant, and allow the
trial of civilians by military courts in terrorism cases.


The changes would also repeal judicial supervision of elections.


Since becoming secretary of state in January 2005, Rice has been
outspoken on the need for political reforms and greater democracy
in Egypt.


But as the administration of President George W. Bush has sought
Mubarak's support in dealing with the Iraq war, countering Iran's
growing influence and trying to revive Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks, it has muted its criticism.


Earlier this week the State Department only mildly responded to
the parliament's adoption of the constitutional amendments and
Mubarak's move to precipitate the referendum on them.

