

Rafael Nadal launched his bid for a second ATP Masters Series
title in as many tournaments with a second-round victory over
Ricardo Mello in the 6.9 million- dollar Sony Ericsson Open on
Friday.


The second-seeded Spaniard, who won his first title of 2007 at
the Indian Wells Masters Series event on Sunday, defied difficult
conditions to beat Brazil's Mello 7-6 (9/7), 6-2.


Nadal, third-seeded American Andy Roddick and 12th-seeded
Scottish teen Andy Murray all advanced, but eighth-seeded
American James Blake was ousted by France's Florent Serra and
Australian Lleyton Hewitt withdrew before his first match with a
sore back.


On the women's side, second-seeded Justine Henin of Belgium
reached the third round, as did fourth-seeded compatriot Kim
Clijsters and Indian Wells women's winner Daniela Hantuchova of
Slovakia, the 16th seed.


After rain caused delays of more than five hours on Thursday,
Nadal said the big problem on Friday was the wind.


"The thing today was the wind," said Nadal, who fought off a set
point in the first-set tiebreaker. "A lot of wind, and the wind
changes all the time. It's not always the same way.


"So it was very, very difficult. I arrived here with a lot of
confidence after playing very good tennis at Indian Wells, but it
was a tough match. So it's important to have the victory."


Nadal has had mixed fortunes in recent years here. He lost a
close final to world No. 1 Roger Federer in 2005, but was ousted
in the second round last year.


In the third round, he'll face Belgian Olivier Rochus, who beat
Spain's Guillermo Lopez Garcia 6-3, 6-4.


Roddick eased past Argentina's Martin Vassallo Arguello 6-3, 6-2
to book a third-round clash with France's Gilles Simon, who
dispatched Peru's Luis Horna.


Serra, ranked 64th in the world, avenged an Indian Wells loss to
Blake with a 7-6 (10/8), 2-6, 6-3 victory. He next faces Spain's
Feliciano Lopez, a 7-5, 7-6 (7/2) winner over Russian Marat
Safin.


"It's a bad day," Blake said. "Hit a couple bad points in the
tiebreaker where I kind of gave away points and then second set
got rolling.


"Third set, same thing - one bad game, then I had a chance to
break back and it didn't happen."


Australia's Hewitt, meanwhile was disappointed that the back
problems that hindered him at Indian Wells hadn't abated.


"My back hasn't come up as well as I would have liked from last
week, which is frustrating for me," Hewitt said. "Not a whole
heap I can do about it at the moment, but I don't want to go out
there and play in pain. It's frustrating.


"I'm not going to go out and risk further injury. It's the last
thing I need at the moment."


Hewitt's departure eases the path for Murray, who could have
faced the Aussie in the third round.


Murray defeated Paul Goldstein 7-2, 7-6 (7/4) and will face
American Robert Kendrick, who replaced Hewitt in the draw and
beat Raemon Sluiter 6-4, 6-4.


On the women's side, Henin, fighting off a cold, eliminated
American Vania King 6-4, 6-1 to book a third-round date with
France's Virginie Razzano, who eliminated Germany's Martina
Muller 6-4, 7-6 (7/2).


"I wasn't at my best, far from that," Henin said. "It was tough,
pretty windy out there. I needed a little bit of time to get used
to the conditions. Second set was much better, but I need to
improve. I need some matches."


Henin, newly installed as the world No. 1, said the ranking would
be of little help as she tries to put together a solid run in
Miami, where she has never excelled.


"I don't think it does change anything," she said. "When you're
on the court the ranking doesn't mean anything. It's only on the
paper. On the court we have to prove we're playing good tennis."


Henin's compatriot Clijsters, who won this tournament in her
stellar 2005 season, advanced with a 46, 6-0, 6-0 victory over
Japan's Akiko Morigami.


Sixth-seeded Russian Nadia Petrova also advanced, beating
France's Nathalie Dechy 6-4, 3-6, 7-6, (7/2), while seventh-
seeded Serb Jelena Jankovic moved on with a 6-2, 6-4 victory over
China's Peng Shuai.


Top seeds Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova open their campaigns
on Saturday with second-round matches, as does Australian Open
champion Serena Williams.

