

Voters in Australia's most populous state went to the polls
Saturday in an election that powerbrokers in Canberra will be
watching closely ahead of a national ballot later this year.


More than 4.3 million voters in New South Wales were called to
cast ballots in an election battle between the incumbent centre-
left Labor Party and a conservative Liberal-National coalition
seeking to end 12 years in opposition.


The election has been met with widespread cynicism amongst the
electorate, with opinion polls predicting a win for the deeply
unpopular Labor government, largely because voters doubt the
opposition's competence to take over.


The Daily Telegraph said it was an uninspiring choice between
Premier Morris Iemma, seen as a grey bureaucrat, and the
coalition's Peter Debnam, ridiculed for holding press conferences
on the beach wearing his Speedo swimming trunks.


"It's hard to envisage a more tired, rotten, arrogant, useless
government than this lot," the newspaper said.


"Equally, it's hard to remember a worse campaign than that run by
the tragi- comic NSW Liberals and their Speedo-clad leader, who
decided five weeks ago to unleash himself on the voters without
any pants on."


The political balance in New South Wales is the opposite of the
situation at the national level, where the conservative coalition
had held power for a decade.


But pundits will be closely watching Prime Minister John Howard's
home state for any signs of a mood for change in the electorate
as preparations begin for a national ballot at the end of the
year.


The Australian newspaper contrasted the recently-installed
federal Labor leader Kevin Rudd's dynamic performance since
taking over with the hapless NSW opposition, saying he was giving
the public genuine reasons to vote for him.


"It appears politics in Australia is changing, that the old adage
that governments lose, rather than oppositions win elections no
longer applies," it said.


One intriguing contest in the NSW election involves former terror
suspect Mamdouh Habib, who was jailed for more than three years
in the US military's Guantanamo Bay prison before being released
without charge in 2005.


He is contesting the ethnically-diverse Sydney seat of Auburn,
saying he wants to voice his opposition to Australia's
participation in the Iraq war and the alleged persecution of the
country's Muslims under counter-terrorism laws.


Habib, who is running as an independent, is considered to have a
remote chance at winning as he needs to overcome a 26.5 percent
labor majority in the seat.

