

The United States will field what is shaping as their strongest
men's team ever for a world swimming championships, men's coach
Bob Bowman said Saturday.


Crammed with the world record talents of Michael Phelps, Aaron
Peirsol, Brendan Hansen and Ian Crocker, the Americans are on
target for a large chunk of the men's gold in the swimming,
getting underway here Sunday.


The team have only lost one world championship in the 11 so far
decided, in 1998 in Perth when Ian Thorpe and Michael Klim led
the Australians to a narrow victory by just two silver medals
after both teams won six gold medals.


The Americans won 10 of the 20 men's events at the last Montreal
world championships in 2005.


"This is a very strong team and quite possibly the strongest team
we have fielded," said Bowman, the coach of triple world record
holder Phelps.


"I think it is hard to compare teams from different eras because
the competition is different, but we are certainly extremely
strong and have a lot of experienced strong swimmers and a few
up-and-comers will pleasantly surprise.


"I feel very good with where we are and I think we will do well.


"As far as the medal count, you can't predict this kind of
thing."


Hansen, who shattered the world 200m breaststroke world record
twice in 15 days last August, said he was planning on fine-tuning
his program ahead of next year's Beijing Olympics.


"We're here to fix the kinks and get everything right as far as
next year," he said.


"Race strategy comes a lot in to play. Last summer I swam the
200m breaststroke two completely different ways and broke the
world record both times.


"This (competition) is just another canvas to start writing
things on."


Hansen said he had been drug-tested three days in a row before he
left to race in Australia.


"USA Swimming takes a lot of pride in doping control. Faster
swimmers get tested more often. We take pride in being the
cleanest team going in to an event," he said.


Hansen said of his rivalry with Japan's Kosuke Kitajima, who has
the second- fastest time ever behind the American's world record:
"We have a pretty healthy rivalry.


"Other than the language barrier there's not much I can say other
than good luck. We make each other swim fast but we always shake
hands at the end of the race. He brings out the best in me and I
appreciate that."

