

The European Union's Baltic members will Sunday mark contrasting
anniversaries, one celebrating 50 years since the birth of the
EU, the other mourning victims of a huge deportation carried out
by the Soviets.


On March 25, 1949, tens of thousands of inhabitants of the then
Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were torn from
their beds in the middle of the night, ordered to pack their
bags, and crammed onto cattle cars bound for Siberia and other
remote parts of the USSR.


The three Baltic states had been forcibly incorporated into
Joseph Stalin's Union of Soviet Socialist Republics during World
War II, only regaining independence in 1991, when the Soviet
Union crumbled.


All three joined the EU and NATO in 2004.


Andrejs Upmacis, now 80, was among more than 42,000 people
deported from Latvia on that night in 1949.


For four weeks, he and thousands of others sat in cramped cattle
cars, bound for Siberia.


"The trains didn't even stop in forests to make sure we didn't
run away," said Upmacis, who was 22 when he was deported.


In Siberia, he was reunited with his mother, who had been caught
up in a deportation sweep at the family's country house in
northern Latvia.


Country people were allowed to take more with them than city
dwellers, so Upmacis' mother took her son's accordion.


"The first time I played in Siberia, there was no singing. Just
music and weeping," he recalled.


Upmacis married a Latvian deportee in Siberia, and their first
son was born in exile.


In October 1956, three years after Stalin's death and six months
before the Treaty of Rome was signed, Upmacis and his family
received official papers telling them they were free to leave
Siberia -- but not to return to Latvia.


"My mother suffered a heart attack two hours after reading the
papers. She died a week later," he recalled.


Upmacis buried his mother in Siberia, and returned "illegally" to
Latvia.


The now elderly Upmacis sees Latvia's membership in the EU, which
it joined on May 1, 2004, as a safeguard against a repeat of
tragedies such as the Soviet occupation of his country and the
deportations.


"May 1, 2004 was one of the most blessed days in my country's
history. The European Union is a guarantee of our future," he
said.


But he won't be marking the signing of the Treaty of Rome, as the
day is overshadowed in his memory by the 1949 deportation that
tore his country apart.


"For me, March 25th is a day to remember the deportations, not to
celebrate the birthday of the EU," Upmacis said.


"More than 42,000 people were deported in a single night from
Latvia, and the media in Europe at the time didn't even report
it."

