

Fresh talks held Friday between Rugby Football Union (RFU) chiefs
and their French counterparts have failed to stave off the threat
of a French boycott of European club competitions next season.


The Ligue Nationale de Rugby (LNR) announced two months ago that
all 14 French first division clubs would not participate in the
continent's top club competitions.


The LNR blamed the RFU over their refusal to hand over share and
voting rights in European Rugby Cup (ERC) Limited to leading
English clubs, although domestic fixture congestion in France
caused by the World Cup is being seen as the major reason for the
planned mass withdrawal.


The RFU management board on Friday meet with the French
Federation president Bernard Lapasset and vice-president Pierre
Camou in a bid to resolve the problem.


But the RFU said they rejected the LNR's latest proposal
regarding English shareholding in ERC, claiming it did not
provide a long-term solution to current difficulties.


The RFU also felt it was inappropriate for organisations in one
country to seek to influence negotiations between parties in
another.


RFU chairman Martyn Thomas said: "Our agreement with PRL (Premier
Rugby Ltd) still has two years to run, and under that agreement
they have committed to participation in ERC competitions.


"We have been in negotiation with PRL for some months on a new,
comprehensive long-term package for professional rugby and have
reached heads of agreement stage. It is wholly inappropriate for
LNR to be seeking a voice in these negotiations.


"We wait to hear from LNR if they are going to participate in
next year's ERC competitions."


Thomas said that the RFU were urging the French to nominate
alternative clubs for the competitions if the proposed boycott
goes ahead.


"If they do not compete, we are looking to the FFR (Federation
Francaise de Rugby) to nominate other French teams to
participate," he added.


If French clubs carry out their withdrawal threat, the European
Cup and Challenge Cup could be slashed to 16-team competitions
next season.


Lapasset said the the RFU had accepted four of the five points
submitted by them apart from their proposal on shareholding
within the ERC.


"The RFU made this a point of principle mainly because they had
difficultly accepting interference by French clubs in English
affairs," Lapasset told AFP.


He added that the LNR had set a deadline of March 31 for their
final decision on whether or not to boycott the tournaments.

