

Most Europeans don't think the EU represents ordinary people in
their countries, according to poll findings published Saturday as
the Union prepares to celebrate its 50th birthday.


Three-quarters of people throughout the European Union said they
would want a referendum on any new treaty which gives more powers
to the EU, according to the results of the new poll by the
London-based Open Europe think tank.


The German EU presidency is set to relaunch public debate on the
bloc's moribund constitution project on Sunday in the official
declaration marking the 50th anniversary of the Union's founding
Treaty of Rome.


The declaration will champion the call for the EU's institutional
impasse to be fixed by 2009.


The think tank's poll offers some grim findings for the
europhiles heading for the birthday celebrations in Berlin this
weekend.


On top of the statistic that 56 percent feel the Union "does not
represent ordinary people," Open Europe Director Neil O'Brien
said "there is little support for giving the EU further powers."


Across the 27 EU member states as a whole, just 28 percent think
the EU should have more powers than it has now, with 41 percent
opposed to the idea, according to the poll.


"In fact voters' top priority is to set clear limits on the
powers of the EU to stop the creeping expansion of its powers,"
O'Brien said.


"Instead of ignoring the voters and pressing ahead with a new
treaty regardless, it is now time to return powers back to the
national and local level and to create a looser and more
democratic EU."


Support for the euro common currency in the poll may also make
uncomfortable reading for Brussels and Frankfurt eurocrats.


Among the 13 countries using the euro, 49 percent said they would
prefer to revert to their previous national currencies while 47
percent would retain the common currency.


A massive 70 percent of Greek poll respondents said they would
prefer to return to the drachma, which was the oldest European
currency scrapped, with Portugal (60 percent), Germany (54
percent) and Spain (51 percent) also posting majorities in favour
of the old money.


Among the 14 EU countries which have retained their national
currencies there appears little appetite to adopt the euro.


While in Romania, Malta and Denmark more people said they would
vote for the change than not, the levels of "don't knows" meant
that nowhere did a majority of respondents back the move.


In Britain 77 percent said they would rather keep the pound
sterling.


Asked to pick the most important changes required in the EU,
respondents from the 27 member states put establishing clear
limits on EU power at the top of the list, followed by reducing
the EU's trade barriers against poor nations.


The pollsters questioned 17,443 people from the 27 EU member
states earlier this month.


Open Europe believes that the EU should undergo radical reform to
produce a "looser and more flexible structure".

