

A Marine Corps special operations unit has been ordered out of
Afghanistan amid an investigation into a March 4 incident in
which the US soldiers allegedly fired on civilians, marine
spokesmen said Friday.


At least eight civilians were killed and 35 wounded after a US
military convoy was ambushed by a suicide bomber in Nangahar
province, prompting the US forces to open fire.


The Afghan government charged that the civilians were killed by
US gunfire, prompting a US military investigation.


Members of the unit who are still required for questioning in the
ongoing investigation will remain in Afghanistan, said Lieutenant
Colonel Lew Leto, a marine spokesman.


But the rest of their 120-member company is being redeployed out
of Afghanistan and will rejoin the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit
elsewhere in the region, he said.


He said they were being pulled out because the commander of the
marine corps special operations forces decided the unit could no
longer be effective in conducting counterinsurgency operations
after the March 4 incident.


"That's why they were moved out. Not because of the
investigation," Leto said.


The civilian deaths sparked angry protests that drew hundreds of
people to the site of the attack, chanting "Death to America" and
"Death to (Afghan President Hamid) Karzai."


Photographers and cameramen working for international news
organizations had photographs and video of the aftermath of the
attack taken and deleted by US forces.


The US military said the images were deleted "to protect the
integrity of the investigation."


It said the ambush began when a five-vehicle military convoy came
under attack "from several directions" on a busy highway between
the eastern city of Jalalabad and the Pakistan border.


The ambush included a car bombing and small arms fire in a
crowded marketplace, and US troops opened fire in defense, it
said.


When the shooting was over, eight civilians were dead and 35
wounded, a coalition statement said. The US military had earlier
said 16 civilians were killed. It did not give a reason for the
drop in the death toll.


The Afghan government said 10 Afghans were killed and 25 wounded
"as a result of return fire."


"The local population's perception of the response to that ambush
damaged the relationship between the local population and the
MSOC (marine special operations company), which degraded the
MSOC's ability to effectively conduct counter-insurgency
operations," said Major Clifford Gilmore, another marine
spokesman.

