

World oil prices were driven to the highest levels of the year
Friday by news that 15 sailors from a British warship had been
seized in the Gulf by Iran.


Crude futures gained further support from weak levels of motor
fuel stocks in the United States ahead of the peak-demand driving
season, starting in May when many Americans take to the roads for
holidays, traders said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, leapt on to 62.65 dollars per barrel at one
point in Friday trading, a high last seen on December 22. The
contract subsequently closed up 59 cents at 62.28 dollars.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
surged to 63.68 dollars per barrel at one point, its highest
level since December 8.


The contract later settled up 67 cents at 63.18 dollars.


Since Monday, prices have jumped by almost six dollars in New
York and three dollars in London.


Prices surged after news that 15 British sailors had been seized
by Iranian naval vessels in the Gulf on Friday, according to
Britain's Ministry of Defence.


Iran claimed the sailors had illegally entered its territorial
waters.


"This sort of incident, and subsequent mishandling, is just the
sort of thing that fuels concerns about a global conflagration
over oil," said Fimat analyst John Kilduff.


"It's premature to judge the seriousness of this incident, but it
is potentially explosive."


The MoD, which said that the sailors had been engaged in
"routine" anti- smuggling operations in Iraqi waters, demanded
their immediate release and sought urgent clarification from
Tehran.


Iran is the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil and is the
second-biggest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries after cartel kingpin Saudi Arabia.


The seizure of the British servicemen came as the United Nations
Security Council prepared to vote on new sanctions aimed at
forcing Tehran to curb its nuclear programme.


Industry experts fear Iran might disrupt its crucial oil exports
if the international community punishes the Islamic republic with
economic sanctions.


Crude futures had slipped earlier on Friday as traders took
profits from big gains on Thursday amid concerns over weak US
gasoline or petrol reserves, analysts said.


The US Department of Energy revealed that US gasoline reserves
had sunk by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million in the week to
March 16. The reading was heavier than market expectations for a
dip of two million.


Gasoline is moving into focus ahead of the peak-demand US driving
season.

