

A Tanzanian detainee admitted that he bought explosives used in
the 1998 truck bombing of a US embassy in Dar Es Salaam but said
he did not know what they were for, according to a Defense
Department transcript released Friday.


Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani apologized at a military hearing in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for helping those who carried out the
bombing, which killed 12 people and wounded 85.


"It was without my knowledge what they were doing but I helped
them," he said. "So I apologized to the United States for what I
did."


"I'm sorry for what happened to those families who lost, who lost
their friends and their beloved ones," Ghailani to the three-
member panel, which was convened to review his status as an enemy
combatant.


Ghailani said that after the bombing he went to Afghanistan where
he was trained in explosives at an Al-Qaeda camp.


He was captured in 2004 in Pakistan, where he lived at the home
of a relative of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the
September 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington.


Ghailani is one of 14 top "war on terror" suspects moved to
Guantanamo in September from secret CIA detention facilities
overseas. So far, nine have gone before military panels to review
their status as enemy combatants.


The hearings are being held behind closed doors at Guantanamo,
but the Pentagon has so far released censored transcripts of five
of the hearings.


An unclassified summary of evidence presented at the hearing said
Ghailani bought the explosives and the truck used in the August
7, 1998, suicide bombing at the embassy.


It also alleged he rode in the scout car the plotters used in the
bombing, and that a call was made from his cell phone to Kenya an
hour before a near- simultaneous truck bombing of the US embassy
in Nairobi.


But Ghailani portrayed himself as a man who ran errands for
others among a group he was living with but was kept in the dark
about what they were plotting to do.


He said he was present when a man identified as Sheikh Ahmed
Salim Swedan purchased the 1987 Nissan Atalas truck used in the
bombing, but said he did not buy it and was told it was to be
used in Somalia.


He said a man named Fahad Mohammed sent him to buy TNT, telling
him it was soap for washing horses.


"However, the man who gave it to me told me it was TNT," he said.
"When I returned to Fahad, I asked what the purpose of the TNT
was and why he didn't tell me."


"Fahad replied that it was for mining for diamonds in Somalia and
also for a Somali training camp," he said, according to the
transcript.


He admitted to buying a cell phone but said it was for an
Egyptian named Mustaffa who shared it with him.


Ghailani requested that a witness appear on his behalf -- Khalfan
Khamis Mohammed, who is imprisoned in the United States. But the
head of the tribunal said he denied the request on grounds that
Mohammed was "not reasonably available."


Mohammed refused to provide a written statement to the tribunal,
the presiding officer said.

