

Britain's newspapers feared Saturday that the sailors seized by
Iran could be being held hostage as a bargaining chip as the
United Nations prepared to vote on new sanctions against Tehran.


"Hostage fears over troops seized by Iran", read the front page
of The Times.


"There were growing fears that the 15 British sailors and Royal
Marines were victims of a deliberate ambush by Iran's
Revolutionary Guards, perhaps seeking to use the captives as
hostages in the increasingly tense stand-off between the West and
Iran over its nuclear programme," the story said.


Iran said it seized the group Friday after they illegally entered
its waters, though the British military insists they were well
within Iraqi waters.


The UN Security Council will vote Saturday on a resolution
broadening UN sanctions on Iran over its refusal to halt
sensitive nuclear fuel work and is likely to adopt the text
unanimously, the sponsors said Friday.


Iran's capture of the sailors could be a simple mistake, or
"something more sinister," The Guardian said in its editorial.


"But whether by accident or design, the incident adds yet another
potent ingredient to the explosive mixture of factors that make
our dealings with Iran so dangerous.


"There is now what looks like a hostage crisis.


"These anti-smuggling patrols are relatively uncontentious, but
they represent an opportunity for Iran to grasp.


"The source of a dispute matters less than the leverage Tehran
thinks it can extract from it.


"Seizing sailors could be exactly the sort of symbolic act that
appeases the need of hardliners in Iran's power structure for
action."


The Sun, Britain's biggest-selling daily, urged Prime Minister
Tony Blair to take personal charge.


"We don't suppose the Iranian ambassador was exactly quaking in
his boots at being told off by (Foreign Secretary) Margaret
Beckett," its editorial said.


"Taking our boys prisoner is an outrage that cannot be tolerated.


"Britain will not be humiliated by a crackpot's regime."


A senior defence source told the tabloid: "They (the sailors) did
the right thing. They were heavily outnumbered and outgunned.
There was no point in putting up a fight. No shots were exchanged
and from what we understand so far, none of our people have been
harmed."

