

A toxin commonly used in some countries as a rat poison has been
found in tainted pet food that has killed several animals in the
United States and Canada, US officials said Friday.


The New York state laboratory working with scientists from
Cornell University identified the toxin in samples of the Menu
Foods product, the New York state agriculture commissioner,
Patrick Hooker, said in a statement.


"We are pleased that the expertise of our New York State Food
Laboratory was able to contribute to identifying the agent that
caused numerous illnesses and deaths in dogs and cats across the
nation," the commissioner said.


"New Yorkers can be assured that we have two of the nation's
leading laboratory programs in food safety and animal health
working on this problem."


The toxin, called aminopterin, can cause cancers and birth
defects in humans and kidney damage in cats and dogs.


It is not permitted for use in the US, the statement said.


Last week the Canadian company Menu Foods issued a massive recall
of 60 million cans and pouches of food made in the United States,
and sold in 95 different brands.


Several people have filed suit in US courts as well as in Canada
following the deaths of their pets, including that of a cat
called Phoenix in Chicago and another called Samoya in the
northwestern state of Oregon, court sources said.


A couple in the US state of Arkansas have sued for compensation
for costs incurred by the illness and death of their dog Abby.


In the northern state of Wisconsin a woman also filed a complaint
concerning her cat Gumbi, who will require life-long treatment
following kidney failure caused by pet food.


Earlier Friday, ABC television reported that the toxin had been
found in wheat imported from China and used in preparing the
food.


"A source close to the investigation tells ABC News that the
rodenticide ... was on wheat that was imported from China and
used by Menu Foods in nearly 100 brands of dog and cat food," the
US network said on its website.


"There is some good news according to the source. Knowing the
chemical should aid veterinarians who are treating animals that
have been sickened by the pet food," it added.

