

The United States wants to reach an agreement by the end of the
year on deploying anti-missile defences in eastern Europe, a
senior US official said Friday, amid strenuous Russian objections
to the plan.


Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Mark Pekala told reporters
that formal talks had begun with Poland and the Czech Republic
over installing elements of the defence system in their
countries.


"We would like to have the agreements accomplished certainly by
the end of the year."


A total of 10 interceptor missiles and their accompanying radar
would be deployed by about 2010, Pekala said.


Washington says the system is aimed at guarding Europe against
potential threats from states like Iran and North Korea.


But Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the US plan
threatened Russia and would undermine cooperation in the United
Nations, where Washington seeks Moscow's cooperation in
tightening sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.


Lavrov wrote in Moscow's Moskovskiye Novosti newspaper Friday: "I
hope our American partners think about this, especially as they
are calling on us to fight a hypothetical threat while creating a
real threat to our security."


In Poland, opposition leader Donald Tusk accused the government
of caving in to US demands and "following policies without a
clear vision of the consequences".


Pekala responded that the threat from Iran was "real and quite
urgent" as the Islamic republic "could have medium or long-range
missile capacity to deliver a significant payload to parts of
Europe or much farther by 2010 or 2015."


The United States claims that Iran's nuclear programme is aimed
at developing nuclear weapons.


"One of the worst outcomes that we can envision is an Iranian
regime that makes threats against the existence of its neighbors,
that is armed with long-range or medium-range weapons that could
have such a lethal payload as a nuclear payload," said Pekala.


The US official was in Vienna to meet with ambassadors of several
member states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE).


Pekala said the United States, which has its own anti-ballistic
missile capability, is offering the Czech republic and Poland a
chance to negotiate on a US deployment "to far extend the
coverage of our ability to intercept these missiles."


These countries are in a central, strategic position for such a
deployment and "will be enhancing their own national security
against this kind of threat, ... (and) contributing enormously to
this extended coverage in Europe. They will be playing a key role
in defending their allies and friends."


Pekala repeated US reassurances that the system was "absolutely
not" targetting the Russian arsenal.


"The Russian missile is too fast, faster than these, and these
are placed too close to the launch sites" of Russian missiles to
be a threat to Moscow's arsenal.


The interceptor missiles are "very small and very short," operate
by hitting incoming missiles already high in flight and have no
explosive charge of their own, Pekala said.


"It's absolutely untrue that they upset the strategic balance,"he
said, noting that Moscow has "hundreds of missiles and thousands
of warheads" and that the United States was ready to cooperate
with Russia in anti-missile defence.


Pekala said the Czech Republic and Poland were "strongly in
favour" of the system and of holding negotiations on the proposed
deployment.

