

The Security Council scrambled Friday to reach consensus on
broader UN sanctions against Iran ahead of a Saturday vote, but
the Iranian leader will reportedly not attend it due to a visa
delay.


The 15-member body held another bargaining round early Friday
over imposing punitive sanctions on Tehran for refusing to halt
its sensitive nuclear fuel work.


Council members were to meet again to try to agree on an
amendment to the sanctions text requested by Indonesia and Qatar.


They propose stating a goal of establishing a "Middle East free
from weapons of mass destruction and all missiles for their
delivery" into the draft. Diplomats said the United States was
opposed to this paragraph.


The Russian delegation offered compromise language stating that
"a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute to
global non-proliferation efforts, including those in the Middle
East."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had asked to address the
Council to defend his country's right to uranium enrichment, but
an official in Tehran told AFP the leader could not travel
because his visa had not arrived in time.


State Department deputy spokesman Thomas Casey in Washington
however said all the visas for Ahmadinejad and his party were
handed to Iranian representatives in the Swiss city of Bern. The
US and Iran have no official ties, conducting diplomatic business
via Switzerland.


Ahead of the vote, Chinese Ambassador Wang Guangya, whose country
was among the six major powers which crafted the latest sanctions
resolution, said efforts were continuing to accommodate South
Africa, Indonesia and Qatar, three non- permanent council members
still unhappy with the latest amended text.


"We have to see whether there are areas that can be improved to
get more support," he told reporters. "I want all 15 council
members on board."


Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of the draft's co-
sponsors, said Thursday the plan was to have a vote on the text
Saturday.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
text has the support of at least 12 council members.


Ahmadinejad said his country would not backtrack on its nuclear
program.


"If the Security Council's decisions are legal, we will accept
them. But if not, we will never be ready to accept them," he said
in an interview Friday broadcast on the global news channel
France 24.


Ahmadinejad earlier called the proposed UN sanctions illegal,
adding he was "not worried" by the prospect of US strikes against
his country over the issue.


He said he wanted to present what he called "new proposals" about
the Islamic Republic's nuclear program, which the major powers
fear is a covert grab for an atomic bomb.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.


Ahmadinejad reiterated his denial that Iran was seeking an atomic
bomb. "In political and military terms, the atomic bomb is no
longer effective," he told France 24.


The delicate diplomatic maneuvering here unfolded amid fears for
15 British navy sailors seized by Iran as they were conducting
"routine" anti-smuggling checks in Iraqi waters Friday, according
to the British Ministry of Defense.


Late Thursday, the Security Council fine-tuned minor changes made
to the text agreed last week by the five veto-wielding permanent
members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
-- plus Germany.


But South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions
for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran, to remove the weapons ban and other
financial sanctions, were rejected.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.

