

The United States Friday called for the release of a group of
British sailors held by Iran saying they had been carrying out
"routine" inspections in Iraqi waters.


"They were engaged in routine boarding operations of merchant
shipping in Iraqi territorial waters," said White House spokesman
Tony Snow. "We're keeping watch on the situation."


Snow said the sailors "were moved into Iranian waters" and, when
asked how the United States was responding, stressed "at this
point, what we're doing is staying in touch with the Brits."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called for the group to be
released, as she was about to leave on a trip to the Middle East.


"We have talked to our British colleagues. We've offered to help
in any way we can. But I really don't think it helps to comment
on it," she said.


"They need to be released, and that I think is what everyone's
focussed on."


Iran said it had seized a group of British sailors on Friday
after they illegally entered its waters, threatening a full-blown
crisis in already tense relations between the West and Tehran.


"British charge d'affaires Kate Smith was summoned to the foreign
ministry to receive a firm protest from Iran against the illegal
entry of British sailors into Iranian territorial waters," said a
statement from Ibrahim Rahimpour, Iranian director general for
Western European affairs.


Rahimpour demanded an "immediate explanation from London over the
violation of its territorial waters and insisted that this not
happen again," his statement said.


Britain's Ministry of Defense said 15 sailors were seized by
Iranian naval vessels in the Gulf on Friday. It demanded their
immediate release and sought urgent clarification from Tehran.


Following their capture, Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett
summoned the Iranian ambassador for what were described as "brisk
but polite" talks.


The abduction of the British servicemen came as the United
Nations Security Council prepared to vote on new sanctions aimed
at forcing Tehran to curb its nuclear program.


The United States has issued visas to Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad and his entourage to enable them to travel to New
York for vote on sanctions expected on Saturday.


But an Iranian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
the visas were issued too late by the US and "because of this, it
is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on time, and the
president's trip has therefore become virtually impossible."

