

US officials on Friday denied having delayed visas for Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his entourage seeking to attend
an imminent UN Security Council vote on sanctions against Iran.


"As we said earlier today, all 39 visas for the Iranian president
and his official party were issued and the passports returned to
Iranian representatives at 10:00 am (0900 GMT) local time in
Bern," deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey said.


He added that some seven hours later, around 5:00 pm (1600 GMT),
36 extra passports with issued visas were returned to members of
the Iranian delegation, after being expedited by US officials.


"These visas were able to be issued despite the fact that the
completed applications for many of them were not received until
this morning," Casey said.


An Iranian official on Friday said Ahmadinejad could not now
travel to New York in time for Saturday's Security Council
meeting because the United States had deliberately issued the
visas late.


"President Ahmadinejad's trip has been made impossible because of
the lateness in supplying a visa by the United States," the
official told AFP under condition of anonymity.


"Because of this, it is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on
time, and the president's trip has therefore become virtually
impossible," he added.


Iran and the United States have not held diplomatic ties for the
past 27 years, and Switzerland takes care of US interests in
Iran, with Iranian interests in the US handled by Pakistan.


But the Iranian leader asked to address the council as it
prepares to vote on a resolution imposing new sanctions on Tehran
for refusing to rein in its suspect nuclear program.


Earlier Friday, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
the initial 39 visas had been delivered in Bern, Switzerland, but
that additional requests for another 33 visas for Iranian crew
members were still being examined.


"It was one of these incidents when they failed to fill out all
the forms. But our folks in Bern are working as quickly as they
can to make sure that those visas get issued within the confines
of our host country obligations," McCormack said.

