

The Security Council will vote Saturday on a resolution
broadening UN sanctions on Iran over its refusal to halt
sensitive nuclear fuel work and is likely to adopt the text
unanimously, the sponsors said Friday.


After day-long bargaining on amendments to a draft crafted by six
major powers last week, the 15 council members agreed to put the
text to a vote Saturday at 3:00 pm (1900 GMT) in the presence of
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, diplomats said.


"I hope that tomorrow when we vote on this text, 15 members of
the council will be united on this important resolution,"
France's UN envoy Jean-Marc de La Sabliere, one of the European
co-sponsors, told reporters after a late afternoon council
session.


He stressed however that the text still required final approval
from the ambassadors' respective capitals.


"We are confident that tomorrow we will secure that resolution
unanimously. We made three minor changes this evening and we hope
those changes will carry when capitals discuss them," his British
colleague Emyr Jones Parry said.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad canceled plans to attend
Saturday's Security Council session, arguing that Washington had
been late in issuing him a visa.


US officials however denied having delayed visas for Ahmadinejad
and his entourage.


"We provided visas to President Ahmadinejad's delegation,
including his security and aircrew, in time for him to come to
New York and speak at the Security Council on Saturday," deputy
State Department spokesman Tom Casey said.


"Any suggestion that visa issues are the cause of President
Ahmadinejad's decision not to travel to New York is false."


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the council president
for March, said Mottaki would arrive in New York "by lunch time
tomorrow," in time for the Council vote.


The draft resolution would toughen earlier sanctions imposed in
December by banning Tehran from exporting arms, calling for
voluntary trade sanctions and expanding a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


The December sanctions included a ban on the sale of nuclear and
ballistic missile-related materials to Iran, and a freeze on
financial assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and
ballistic missile work.


The latest text, agreed last week by the five veto-wielding
permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus non-member Germany, already had the support
of 12 members.


South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar however pressed for some
amendments.


The sponsors made a concession to Indonesia and Qatar by agreeing
to insert in the draft a paragraph referring to a 2006 resolution
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) stating that "a
solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute . . . to
realizing the objectives of a Middle East free of weapons of mass
destruction."


The United States had opposed an explicit reference to the
establishment of a nuclear-free Middle East, which was seen as
applying to Israel, the only country in the region known to have
a nuclear weapons arsenal.


The sponsors also mollified South Africa by including an explicit
reference to the latest report of IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei,
and by reaffirming the "authority" and leading role of the IAEA
in "verifying compliance with safeguards agreements, including
the non-diversion of nuclear material for non- peaceful
purposes."


The resolution "gives Iran a choice: Iran can suspend (uranium)
enrichment and then we will suspend our measures and negotiations
will resume," de La Sabliere said.


The six major powers pushed for the sanctions because Iran
adamantly refuses to bow to UN demands to halt uranium
enrichment, which they suspect is a cover for developing nuclear
weapons.


But Tehran has rejected accusations that it seeks nuclear
weapons, and insists its program is aimed at generating
electricity.


The delicate diplomatic maneuvering here unfolded amid fears for
15 British navy sailors seized by Iran as they were conducting
"routine" anti-smuggling checks in Iraqi waters Friday, according
to the British Ministry of Defense.

