

Suspected insurgents shot down a cargo plane over Mogadishu on
Friday, killing all 11 on board, during a third straight day of
clashes with Ethiopian troops propping up the Somali government.


The Belarussian plane was hit by a rocket shortly after takeoff
from Mogadishu airport and crashed in the northern Karan
neighbourhood, Somali government spokesman Hussein Mohamed
Muhamoud told AFP.


"Three rockets were fired at the plane and one of them hit the
plane. This is an act that will not be accepted by the Somali
people and government," he said.


"All the 11 are dead. Ten died on the spot and one died in
hospital," a Red Cross-Red Crescent official, who asked not to be
named, told AFP on Saturday.


The Red Cross-Red Crescent, which operates at the hospital where
the victims of the crash had been brought, did not specify their
nationalities.


Airport officials said the plane had brought engineers and
equipment to Mogadishu to repair another that two weeks ago had
been hit by a rocket fired by Islamist fighters and seriously
damaged when landing.


Friday's rocket attack came as fighting erupted for a third
straight day in Mogadishu, breaking a ceasefire agreement between
Somalia's powerful Hawiye clan and the Ethiopian army made only
hours earlier.


Both sides confirmed a ceasefire meeting had taken place on
Friday, with a spokesman for Hawiye clan elders claiming a deal
had been struck while Ethiopian officials saying it had fallen
short of truce.


A source close to the Somali government, requesting anonymity,
said the ceasefire had been broken because the elders had made a
deal with only some of the Hawiye militias. Divisions within the
clan are common and limit the ability of the elders to deliver on
their promises.


The European Union presidency said it was deeply concerned about
the latest developments in Somalia.


In a statement released on Friday the EU presidency said it
viewed "with grave concern the recent fighting in Mogadishu. It
condemns the presumed shooting down of a plane and calls on all
parties to end the fighting immediately".


It also urged the transitional federal government to "reach out
to all Somalis of good will, in a spirit of national
reconciliation, and to launch a genuine National Reconciliation
congress."


At least 24 people have been killed and hundreds more wounded
this week in the heaviest fighting since the government and its
Ethiopian allies drove out rival Islamists from the capital three
months ago.


Thousands have fled the spiralling violence since the start of
year and dozens, mainly civilians, have died.


Residents on Friday reported exchanges of fire at the defence
ministry headquarters where Ethiopian troops are based.


"There is no face-to-face fighting, but Ethiopians in the camp
are receiving shots from long-range machine guns and they are
returning fire in their direction," southern Mogadishu resident
Ahmed Yolah told AFP.


Meanwhile, around 200 African Union peacekeeping troops in a
dozen armoured vehicles set up base at a notoriously dangerous
area of the city known as the K4 junction.


"We came here to secure this area and from here to conduct
patrols. K4 is a very strategic junction. You have to pass here
to go anywhere in Mogadishu," said Platoon commander colonel
Peter Elwelu.


Some 1,500 Ugandan AU troops arrived in Mogadishu earlier this
month as the first deployment of an AU peacekeeping force.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from clan warlords.


The country has in been in turmoil since the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre cleared the way for a deadly power
struggle.

