

Defending champion Grant Hackett and record holder Laure Manaudou
get the world swimming championships underway Sunday with four
gold medals at stake on the first day of competition.


Forty titles will be decided over the next eight days with
Australia's Hackett expected to claim the first in the 400m
freestyle final.


The women's 400m freestyle final is also raced with France's
Manaudou the favourite after smashing Janet Evans' 18-year-old
world record last year. Americans Kate Ziegler and Kathryn Hoff
will be in contention.


Manaudou is entered in nine events, one more than US superstar
Michael Phelps, and also swims the women's 200m individual medley
heats with China's Qi Hui and US pair Hoff and Whitney Myers
challenging.


She is also part of the French team that will contest the 4x100m
freestyle relay final where Australia and the United States are
set to battle for gold.


In Sunday's men's freestyle relay, the US should win with
Britain, Australia, Germany and the Netherlands fighting for the
minor placings.


Hackett is the headline act as he attempts to defend his title
with Ian Thorpe holding the world record of 3:40.08.


The 26-year-old, the most-decorated swimmer in world championship
history, has had a chequered preparation and will be pushed by
Americans Peter Vanderkaay and Kelte Keller and Yury Prilukov of
Russia.


Emerging star Park Tae-hwan of South Korea, who burst on the
scene at the Asian Games in December, is also in the mix.


Hackett has swum the second-fastest 400m time in history behind
the retired Thorpe and believes it will take somewhere in the low
3:40's to win gold.


"It's going to be very competitive and there's going to be a lot
of guys swimming fast and in the low 3:40's and it's going to
take a very good time to win that," he said.


"It will be nice to swim fast in the 400m and produce a good time
and then for the 1500m just wait and see."


Hackett will also be defending his 800m and 1500m titles later in
the week.


South Africa's Roland Schoeman gets his title quest underway in
the 50m butterfly heats where he is the second-fastest swimmer
ever over the distance.


American world record holder Brendan Hansen starts as hot
favourite in men's 100m breaststroke qualifying although Japan's
Kosuke Kitajima will be challenging.


Like every other swimmer, Hansen is focused on the Beijing
Olympics and is using Melbourne as vital preparation to fine tune
his strategy.


"Race strategy comes a lot into play," he said.


"Last summer I swam the 200 breast two completely different ways
and broke the world record both times. This competition is just
another canvas to start writing things on."


Australia's Jessicah Schipper, who holds the 200m butterfly
record, races the 100m heats along with teammate Libby Lenton and
US star Natalie Coughlin, who is swimming seven events in
Melbourne.


"I just want to see how I fare in seven events, including the
relays," said the versatile American.


"I think it's exciting to see people doing multiple events. I get
really bored doing the same thing over and over. It is fun in
training to mix it up."


The championships end on April 1.

