

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice headed to the Middle East
late Friday hoping to rekindle a long-dormant Arab plan for peace
between Israel and the Palestinians.


Beginning with her first stop in Egypt, Rice is set to engage in
a rare effort at the kind of shuttle diplomacy once common in US
peace efforts but which Rice has derided during her two years as
Washington's top diplomat.


Her effort will focus in part on getting Arab nations more
proactively involved in the peace efforts.


In the southern Egyptian city of Aswan Rice will meet with
leaders from Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates, officials said.


She will then hold separate talks with Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas in the West Bank town of Ramallah and Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert in Jerusalem, before flying to Amman for a
meeting with King Abdullah II.


Rice then returns to Ramallah and Jerusalem for more discussions
early next week -- her first such back-and-forth diplomacy
between Arabs and Israelis.


In order to find a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
she said earlier Friday, "you need the energy and the help of
moving forward on the Arab- Israel side, not at the end of the
process, but earlier on the process," she said.


"It's one thing to say 'when there is a Palestinian state, we
will be ready for Arab-Israeli reconciliation,'" she said.


But all parties also needed to determined "what can early stages
of Arab-Israeli reconciliation do to help a Palestinian state,"
she said.


The shift in US tactics reflects the difficulties facing US
peacemaking efforts since the Western-backed Palestinian
president, Mahmud Abbas, joined a power- sharing government led
by the radical Islamic movement Hamas.


In an initiative launched late last year, Rice hoped to
strengthen the position of Abbas, then embroiled in a power
struggle with Hamas, in part by brokering direct negotiations
between him and Israel on the contours of a future Palestinian
state.


But the process collapsed last month when Abbas agreed to cohabit
in a unity government with Hamas in a bid to stanch deadly
violence between his Fatah party and the Islamists.


The power-sharing cabinet was sworn in on Saturday without Hamas
agreeing to formally recognize Israel or renounce violence -- key
conditions set by Israel, the United States and other major
powers.


Israel responded by refusing to meet with any member of the new
government and limiting future dealings with Abbas to a narrow
range of security and humanitarian issues.


The tensions over Hamas were underscored when Washington decided
this week to slash around 36 million dollars of proposed aid to
Palestinian security forces loyal to president Mahmud Abbas.


The planned amount is being slashed from 86 million dollars to 50
million, a senior US official said Wednesday, amid concerns it
could end up in the wrong hands.


While Washington and its European allies took a softer line,
agreeing to deal individually with Fatah members and independents
in the new Palestinian cabinet, they maintained a year-long
boycott of the overall government, effectively smothering Rice's
plan.


As a result, her trip will focus in large part on reviving a
peace plan first unveiled by Saudi Arabia in 2002 but rejected by
Israel and ignored by Washington, a senior US official said.


She said she hoped the Arab plan "would be offered again and
offered in a way that suggests that there might be active follow-
up to the initiative."


Under the Saudi initiative, the Arab world would agree to
normalize ties with Israel in exchange for its withdrawal from
all occupied Arab land.


"It would be a very good thing if at some point, the Arab
initiative provided a basis for discussion rather than just
stated it," Rice said.


"It's almost at this point more important, given the upcoming
Riyadh summit, to have the discussions with the Arabs about re-
launching the Arab initiative, relaunching it in a way that
leaves open the possibility of active diplomacy.


"It will take a lot of discussions."


To be acceptable for Israel even as a starting point for
negotiations, though, Rice will have to convince Arab allies to
amend the plan, particularly as it concerns the "right of return"
for Palestinians who fled or were forced from their homes when
Israel was created in 1948 -- a right Israel rejects.

