

Contrary to his earlier assertions, US Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales took part in a confidential meeting on firing seven out
of eight US attorneys now at the center of a political
controversy, documents released late Friday show.


The e-mails and other papers sent by the Justice Department to
Congress indicate that on November 27, Gonzales attended an hour-
long meeting on the firings with his then-chief of staff, Kyle
Sampson, the man in charge of putting together a list of those to
be dismissed.


According to the documents, in late November, Sampson was still
struggling with the task as he tried to determine which
prosecutors would lose their jobs.


The list was finalized days after his meeting with Gonzales in
the attorney general's conference room, and the seven attorneys
were formally notified of their dismissals on December 7. The
eighth attorney was fired earlier.


A calendar entry showed that the subject of the meeting was the
future of US attorneys.


The documents contradict Gonzales's earlier assurances that he
played no active role in the firings that have since mushroomed
into a heated political dispute between Democratic-controlled
Congress and the White House.


The attorney general told reporters two weeks ago that the
dismissals were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson" and that
they "never had a discussion about where things stood."


The unexpected release of the latest documents came after Sampson
earlier Friday informed the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is
investigating the controversy, that he will testify under oath
about the matter.


But while admitting that the meeting between Gonzales and Sampson
took place, Justice Department spokesman Brian Roehrkasse
insisted there was still no proof the two discussed the upcoming
firings.


"The information available to us does not indicate that there was
discussion at this meeting about which US attorneys should or
should not be on the list," Roehrkasse said.


The attorneys were fired ostensibly for poor performance. But
members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received good
performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations the
dismissals were politically motivated.

