

The co-author of murdered Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer's
planned book insisted Saturday that it would not have contained
any explosive revelations on match-fixing.


Ivo Tennant, writing in The Times newspaper, swiped at rumours
that Woolmer was about to blow the whistle on corruption in the
sport.


Speculation has swirled that the strangulation killing was
carried out by criminals keen to avoid exposure in claims of
match-fixing which may have arisen.


"Rumours that Bob Woolmer was murdered because he was harbouring
information on match-fixing or an association with corrupt
bookmakers can be dismissed unequivocally," Tennant wrote.


"As the co-author of his autobiography and its planned sequel,
for which a publisher had still to be found, I can state that he
had no intention of writing or publicising any such detail in
either this or his book on coaching and sports science, which
will be published in June."


Woolmer, 58, was found in his hotel room in Kingston, Jamaica on
Sunday and declared dead in hospital, a day after Pakistan's
shock defeat to Ireland saw the 1992 World Cup winners crash out
of this year's competition.


A former England international, Woolmer was coach of South Africa
when its then- captain Hansie Cronje was bought off by bookmakers
in 1996, but was never alleged to have been involved himself.


"He had no knowledge of Hansie Cronje's involvement in match-
fixing during his time as coach of South Africa, and, if there
there had been any such approach to his Pakistan players, he
would have told them to report it immediately to the manager or
the Board of Control," Tennant wrote.


"Doubtless he would then have informed the police himself.


"Above all, Woolmer was an honest man. He did not mix with dodgy
individuals.


"Doubtless the reason why Cronje, when captain of South Africa,
did not tell Woolmer of his underhand dealings was because he
knew that his coach would have no truck with them.


"Anyone who thought about involving him in underhand dealings
must have known it would have been futile."


Meanwhile The Daily Telegraph newspaper ran on its front page
part of an email from Woolmer to a Pakistani journalist who asked
not to be named, fearful for his life.


"I am going to write a book on my tenure as Pakistan coach. I
shall only start after the World Cup," it read.


"I believe, regardless of the money, the story is worth telling,
has to be told and in a correct way.


"I am not a name and shame guy, just the honest facts. Let the
punter make up his mind, etc."


Woolmer's body will remain in Jamaica while an inquest is
conducted, Jamaican media reported, as sports fans reeled over
the murder.

