

DaimlerChrysler's US employees were shaken Friday as reports
swirled about a bid being prepared for the Chrysler Group, the
American arm of the German-US auto giant.


"It's kind of nuts," said one Chrysler Group employee, who asked
not to be identified, over rumors of a possible sale of the
company to Canadian auto parts supplier Magna Corp. and private
equity firm Cerberus.


"We still have jobs to do but when people don't know what's
happening, it's very difficult," said the employee at the
company's big Jefferson North assembly plant in Detroit.


"Employees are very suspicious of the motives of both Magna and
Cerberus," said one union official in Auburn Hills, Michigan, the
headquarters of Chrysler. "They don't like it."


In Frankfurt, a spokesman for DaimlerChrysler said the company is
not planning an "imminent" announcement on the sale of its US
unit.


"There is nothing new on Chrysler," the spokesman said.


But some industry watchers said there was market talk that
DaimlerChrysler is on the brink of striking a deal to sell
Chrysler. There was even speculation that the German parent had
already sold it for a "good price."


In Michigan, Chrysler officials have acknowledged privately that
morale has sunk since the announcement in mid-February that the
company might be for sale.


Many Chrysler employees are deeply mistrustful of private equity
groups such as Cerberus and Blackstone, the nation's largest
private equity fund, which has also expressed interest in the
automaker.


Employees and union officials fear a new owner might slash
benefits and possible jeopardize the employee pension fund.


"As of right now, the pension fund is fine. But what happens when
there are no more employees to pay into it?" another Chrysler
employee said.


Tom LaSorda, Chrysler Group chief executive officer, tried to
address the sinking morale in an e-mail this week.


"Here at the Chrysler Group, we are operating in unique
circumstances as news reports continue to circulate about our
potential future direction," he wrote.


"While we have been through turnarounds before, in some respects
the current situation is unprecedented because of the uncertainty
involved."


LaSorda added that "whatever our future situation will be, we
need to succeed as a team with our Recovery and Transformation
Plan."


Magna officials declined to comment on the reports of a bid for
Chrysler.


"DaimlerChrysler is one of Magna International's largest
customers. It is imperative that Magna has a full understanding
of the situation regarding the future of the Chrysler Group,"
said Magna spokeswoman Tracy Fuerst.


"Therefore, we continue to review potential alternatives
regarding the future of the Chrysler Group.


"Discussions about this matter are strictly confidential and will
not be disclosed publicly, nor will the company comment on
speculation related to those discussions."


There has been growing speculation that Chrysler, which Daimler
acquired in May 1998, might be sold off in the face of its deep
losses, which have weighed on the profitability of the group as a
whole.


The 1998 "merger of equals" created a group valued at 92 billion
dollars and was described at the time as the largest industrial
fusion in corporate history.

