

The UN Security Council announced it would vote Saturday on
broader UN sanctions against Iran, as Tehran said that President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would not appear for the vote because
Washington delayed travel visas.


The 15-member body came to an agreement late Friday over imposing
punitive sanctions on Tehran for refusing to halt its sensitive
nuclear fuel work.


Jean-Marc de La Sabliere, France's ambassador to the United
Nations, said that minor changes to the resolution were made and
still had to be referred back to the governments of the 15
council members, but he was confident the measure would be
adopted unanimously in a vote at 1900 GMT Saturday.


However Ahmadinejad, who earlier asked to address the council to
defend his country's right to uranium enrichment, will be a no-
show: an official in Tehran told AFP that the Iranian leader
could not travel because his visa had not arrived in time.


Washington denied any visa delays.


"We provided visas to President Ahmadinejad's delegation,
including his security and aircrew, in time for him to come to
New York and speak at the Security Council on Saturday," said
deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey.


"Any suggestion that visa issues are the cause of President
Ahmadinejad's decision not to travel to New York is false."


Casey also said that Washington's UN mission "has been informed
that President Ahmadinejad has now decided not to come to New
York."


Earlier Friday Ahmadinejad said his country would not backtrack
on its nuclear program.


"If the Security Council's decisions are legal, we will accept
them. But if not, we will never be ready to accept them," he said
in an interview broadcast on the global news channel France 24.


Ahmadinejad earlier called the proposed UN sanctions illegal,
adding he was "not worried" by the prospect of US strikes against
his country over the issue.


He said he wanted to present what he called "new proposals" about
the Islamic Republic's nuclear program, which the major powers
fear is a covert grab for an atomic bomb.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.


Ahmadinejad reiterated his denial that Iran was seeking an atomic
bomb. "In political and military terms, the atomic bomb is no
longer effective," he told France 24.


The delicate diplomatic maneuvering here unfolded amid fears for
15 British navy sailors seized by Iran as they were conducting
"routine" anti-smuggling checks in Iraqi waters Friday, according
to the British Ministry of Defense.


Late Friday, the Security Council fine-tuned minor changes made
to the text agreed last week by the five veto-wielding permanent
members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
-- plus non-member Germany.


But South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions
for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran, to remove the weapons ban and other
financial sanctions, were rejected.


The resolution would ban Tehran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.

