

Iran was holding a group of British sailors it said had illegally
entered its waters, threatening a full-blown crisis as the West
was set Saturday to tighten sanctions on Tehran for its nuclear
programme.


Britain has demanded the immediate safe return of the 15 sailors
and marines it said were seized Friday in Iraqi territorial
waters while conducting "routine" anti-smuggling operations.


British newspapers expressed fears the sailors might be used as a
bargaining chip as the UN Security Council was set to adopt
Saturday a resolution tightening sanctions on Iran over its
refusal to halt sensitive nuclear fuel work.


Iran summoned Friday Britain's top diplomat in Tehran to protest
what it said was the illegal entry of the British sailors into
its waters.


"This makes a number of times that British sailors have illegally
entered Iranian territorial waters at Arvand Roud. They were
arrested by border guards for investigation and questioning,"
said an Iranian foreign ministry statement, without saying how
many personnel had been seized.


Arvand Roud is the Iranian name for the Shatt al-Arab waterway
that separates Iran from Iraq.


Earlier, the British defence ministry had said 15 sailors were
seized Friday morning by Iran in Iraqi territorial waters while
conducting "routine" anti- smuggling operations.


Following their capture, Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett
summoned the Iranian ambassador for what she described as "brisk
but polite" talks.


"We have sought a full explanation of what happened and we are
leaving them in no doubt that we want the immediate and safe
return of our personnel and their equipment," she said in a
televised statement.


Although this was not the first time British sailors have been
seized by Iran in the waterway between Iraq and Iran, it comes
amid a fraught diplomatic climate as the West seeks to press
Tehran to curb its nuclear programme.


The United States suspects Tehran of seeking to develop nuclear
weapons under the guise of a civilian nuclear programme. The UN
Security Council was expected to vote unanimously on tightening
sanctions against Iran on Saturday, according to diplomats.


British newspapers expressed concern that Iran would use the
sailors as a bargaining chip.


"There were growing fears that the 15 British sailors and Royal
Marines were victims of a deliberate ambush by Iran's
Revolutionary Guards, perhaps seeking to use the captives as
hostages in the increasingly tense stand-off between the West and
Iran over its nuclear programme," said The Times.


"There is now what looks like a hostage crisis," wrote The
Guardian.


"These anti-smuggling patrols are relatively uncontentious, but
they represent an opportunity for Iran to grasp.


"The source of a dispute matters less than the leverage Tehran
thinks it can extract from it."


The British defence ministry said the 15 naval personnel, based
on HMS Cornwall in the Gulf, had completed an inspection of a
merchant ship when they and their two boats were surrounded and
escorted by Iranian vessels into Iranian territorial waters.


A defence ministry spokesman declined to give further details,
but underlined that the British navy was boarding merchant ships
in Iraqi waters in support of UN Security Council resolution
1723.


British naval boats routinely patrol the Shatt al-Arab to clamp
down on smugglers operating between Iraq and Iran.


A senior Navy commander said he hoped the capture was a
"misunderstanding," while admitting that the area where they were
detained was disputed.


A senior defence source told the Sun tabloid that the sailors
"did the right thing. They were heavily outnumbered and
outgunned. There was no point in putting up a fight. No shots
were exchanged and from what we understand so far, none of our
people have been harmed."


In June 2004, eight British sailors and marines were detained for
three days in Iran after being seized during another routine
operation. They were paraded blindfold on television and forced
to apologise for their "mistake."


On that occasion Iran insisted that the British boats -- which it
has not yet returned -- were intercepted only after they entered
Iranian waters on the Shatt al-Arab.

