

Sri Lankan troops reported heavy casualties with at least nine
soldiers killed and over 90 wounded as intense fighting in the
north of the island entered its second day Saturday.


The defence ministry said the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
(LTTE) and troops were locked in combat near their de facto
border in the Vavuniya district and that a total of 20 rebels
were killed in the past two days.


However, the pro-rebel Tamilnet.com website said the Tigers lost
only six fighters and reported killing 60 Sri Lankan troopers and
beating back a military advance.


Military sources said that out of the 90 soldiers wounded, about
half of them suffered minor injuries.


Defence ministry spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said the military
had moved to neutralise Tiger gun positions and that the
offensive was not aimed at capturing rebel territory.


The heavy fighting forced the closure of the de facto border
crossing point at Omanthai, local officials said.


Before the main thrust of the fighting broke out on Friday, the
military had claimed killing 13 Tiger rebels in two locations of
the island's north on the previous night.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
in Sri Lanka since December 2005. The violence comes despite a
truce in place since February 2002.


The LTTE is leading a 35-year-old campaign for an independent
homeland for Sri Lanka's 12.5 percent Tamil minority in this
majority Buddhist nation of 19.5 million people.


The latest violence came as troops carried out clearing
operations in the east of the island after simultaneous Tamil
Tiger attacks left at least 20 people dead and dozens more
wounded on Wednesday, officials said.


Another six rebels were killed in a confrontation in the
Batticaloa district on Friday night, military officials said.


Official figures show that nearly 150,000 people were listed as
internally displaced in Batticaloa since the military captured a
key Tiger base there in January.


Following the fall of the former Tiger bastion of Vakarai in
January, the military has vowed to flush out the rebels from the
east of the island.

