

Lorena Ochoa's bid for the Safeway International halfway lead was
temporarily halted Friday as darkness halted play in the 1.5
million-dollar LPGA tournament.


Ochoa, the 2006 player of the year, was nine-under with four
holes to play when the second round was suspended.


On the course she was being chased by Scotland's Catriona
Matthew, who was eight-under with one hole remaining.


Norway's Suzann Pettersen set the clubhouse target of seven-under
137 at the weather-afflicted event after adding a 68 to her
opening-round 69.


Matthew, who shared the first-round lead with South Korea's Young
Jo, was on her final hole when a storm erupted.


"It is really frustrating not to be able to finish," said the 37
-year-old, who is playing in her first tournament since giving
birth to a daughter in December.


"It will mean an early start tomorrow, which is not really what I
want. But I am very pleased with the way I'm playing. I thought I
might be rusty after a seven- month layoff."


Petersen was one stroke ahead of the 2005 Women's British Open
champion Jeong Jang of South Korea, who carded a 70.


The winner of the French Women's Open in her first season as a
professional, Pettersen was the 2001 Rookie of the Year on the
Ladies' European Tour but has been plagued by injuries during her
four years in the United States.


"It has been frustrating, but my attitude this season is to try
and stay relaxed and calm on the golf course," the fiery 25-year-
old said. "My game feels goods and I've gone to a shorter putter,
and that also seems to be working well.


"But the main thing is to get into the right state of mind."


One of the most impressive second rounds came from world No.1
Annika Sorenstam, the winner here in 2004 and 2005.


She sank five birdies en route to a 68, leaving her four shots
off the pace.


"It started out freezing cold and ended up very hot," said
Sorenstam, who also played the final three holes of her first
round Friday.


"I said to my caddie that I don't think I have ever gone through
so many changes of outfits in one round. But I'm quite pleased
with my position and hopefully I can go out and make a lot of
birdies over the weekend."


England's Johanna Head was on 1-under 143 after following her
opening-round 70 with a 73. Fellow Briton Laura Davies was
2-under for the tournament with two holes to play.


Defending champion Juli Inkster was 2-over on the day with one
hole remaining.

