

Gunmen on Friday kidnapped three foreign construction workers in
two separate incidents in oil-rich southern Nigeria, police and
diplomats said.


The victims were Dutch, Indian and Lebanese. They were the latest
in a string of foreign workers abducted in the region.


The Dutchman was kidnapped in Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil
capital, in the southern Rivers State, Rivers police commissioner
Felix Ogbaudu told AFP.


Ogbaudu said the man, a security officer, "heard shooting, came
out to see what was happening and was immediately seized."


The other two were seized from a construction site where they
were working in neighbouring Delta State, police commissioner
Udom Ekpoudom said.


Industry sources said the men worked for Cetraco, a construction
company working on a road in the region. It was not immediately
clear where the company was based.


Major Musa Sagir, a spokesman for a joint military force tasked
with policing the Niger Delta, said troops had been deployed to
hunt for the kidnappers who seized the Dutchman.


The foreign ministry in The Hague confirmed the man abducted in
Port Harcourt was Dutch but would not release his name.


A Dutch national was killed in the region just over two months
ago when gunmen attacked a boat travelling between Port Harcourt
and the oil-and-gas terminal at Bonny.


No group immediately claimed responsibility for either of the
latest attacks.


The most high-profile of the separatist groups operating in the
region, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
(MEND), has abducted dozens of people in the past. However, it
said it was not involved this time.


The latest kidnappings bring to five the number of foreigners
currently held by armed groups in southern Nigeria.


Two Chinese nationals were abducted on March 17 in the
southeastern state of Anambra.


The day before that, a Frenchman working for Total oil company,
was released after a month in captivity.


His release came 24 hours after that of two Italians who had been
in captivity for more than three months.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners, most of them
linked to the oil industry, have been kidnapped in Nigeria, as
many as were abducted during the whole of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda. Groups such as MEND say
they were seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's oil
revenues.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
official sources.

