

American superstar Michael Phelps says he will gauge how he
handles the rigours of swimming eight events at the world
championships to help him decide his program at next year's
Beijing Olympics.


The 21-year-old sensation is preparing for another crack at
compatriot Mark Spitz's seven gold medals won at the 1972 Munich
Olympics after finishing with six golds and two bronze at the
2004 Athens Games.


Phelps is targeting eight golds at the Melbourne world
championships with the swimming competition starting Sunday.


"It depends what happens here," Phelps said Saturday. "If I have
a good meet here then it will possibly set something up for next
year.


"But the biggest thing is to be able to swim the amount of events
here at this level of competition and being successful in every
one of them.


"I think there are events that I consider my best and some events
where I am improving on. I don't want to take away from my best
events."


The winner of 10 world gold and three silver medals believes he
is in a better position to cope with the workload of five
individual events and three team relays.


"I've learned a lot and I'm able to handle a lot more, so
hopefully after this I will be able to handle more next year,"
Phelps said.


He is prepared for fatigue to set in at the tail-end of his
gruelling schedule and has geared his training towards it.


"This is pretty much the limit (swimming eight events). I had a
tough time in Athens, I was definitely very pleased with it, but
it's tough doing that many individuals and still come back to the
(three) relays," he said.


"It's impossible not to be fatigued by the end of it. But I have
to take one event at a time, that's my goal, it's what I've done
in the past and it's what I'm going to try to do here.


"So I'm just seeing where my fitness is at right now and if I am
at the best of my abilities to decide on what to do."


Carrying off eight gold at his fourth world championships will
further lift Phelps's profile.


"Swimmers usually peak in their early twenties so I'm hitting my
peak," he said.


"I don't see myself retiring before 2012 (London Olympics). I
have more goals to do, more things to accomplish and I'm not
stopping until they are done.


"I want to be one of the greatest swimmers of all time. I want to
be able to raise the bar for swimming in America. That's a huge
goal of mine."


His coach Bob Bowman, who is also the US men's coach, said
Phelps' experience at the 2005 world championships where he won
five gold but was beaten by Ian Crocker in the 100m butterfly and
bombed out in the 100m and 400m freestyle had been beneficial.


"I think he got his head back, not that it wasn't fully there. I
think (Montreal) let him know that you've got to put in the
training if you want to swim that big program and it also let him
know really what his best events are," Bowman said.


Looking at his potential schedule in Beijing, Bowman said: "He's
probably swimming the same number of events over the same number
of days.


"So what events they will be might be different because the order
of events is different and until we know the Beijing program I
don't think you can really say what his program will be."


Bowman added Phelps was now a better technical swimmer.


"He had some things that were not very efficient and we worked on
that. He has better balance, he had an awkward rhythm, and now
it's very balanced.


"His kicking is very strong, we have tried to improve his turns
and kicking very strong."

