

A Marine Corps special operations unit has been ordered out of
Afghanistan amid an investigation into a March 4 incident in
which the US soldiers allegedly fired on civilians, a spokesman
said Friday.


At least eight civilians were killed and 35 wounded after a US
military convoy was ambushed by a suicide bomber in Nangahar
province, prompting the US forces to open fire.


The Afghan government charged that the civilians were killed by
US gunfire, prompting a US military investigation.


"I can confirm that a marine special operations company in
Afghanistan has been ordered to redeploy out of Afghanistan,"
said Major Clifford Gilmore, a spokesman for the US Marine Corps
Special Operations Command at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.


"The unit was involved in an ambush March 4 in Afghanistan," he
said. "There is an ongoing investigation into that incident."


"The local population's perception of the response to that ambush
damaged the relationship between the local population and the
MSOC (marine special operations company), which degraded the
MSOC's ability to effectively conduct counter-insurgency
operations," he said.


Gilmore would not say whether the unit was being brought back
because of the investigation's findings.


The deaths sparked angry protests that drew hundreds of people to
the site of the attack, chanting "Death to America" and "Death to
(Afghan President Hamid) Karzai."


Photographers and cameramen working for international news
organizations had photographs and video of the aftermath of the
attack taken and deleted by US forces.


The US military said the images were deleted "to protect the
integrity of the investigation."


The US military said the incident began when a five-vehicle
military convoy came under attack "from several directions" on a
busy highway between the eastern city of Jalalabad and the
Pakistan border.


The ambush included a car bombing and small arms fire in a
crowded marketplace, and US troops opened fire in defense, it
said.


When the shooting was over, eight civilians were dead and 35
wounded, a coalition statement said. The US military had earlier
said 16 civilians were killed. It did not give a reason for the
drop in the death toll.


The Afghan government said 10 Afghans were killed and 25 wounded
"as a result of return fire."

