

The United States is scrambling a top Treasury official to China
to unblock a banking row that triggered North Korea's walkout
from nuclear disarmament talks, officials said Friday.


"The policy and diplomatic issues have been solved -- this is now
down to implementation," Daniel Glaser, the deputy assistant
secretary for terrorist financing and financial crimes, said
ahead of his weekend trip to Beijing.


Battling to get the nuclear talks back on track, diplomats are
trying to find a bank outside China to receive North Korean funds
that lie frozen in a bank in Macau, South Korea's envoy said.


The United States on Monday said it had cleared the way for the
release of the 25 million dollars from Banco Delta Asia (BDA) in
the autonomous Chinese territory, which is located near Hong
Kong.


But the designated recipient, the Bank of China, has refused to
accept the money for fear the transaction may hurt its credit
rating, said Chun Young-Woo, Seoul's chief nuclear negotiator.


"The Macanese and Chinese have made clear that they want to
ensure implementation of the agreement is consistent with their
own laws and with their international obligations," Glaser said
in a statement.


"We are bringing Treasury expertise to help the Macanese and
Chinese wade through some of these implementation issues," said
Glaser, who is due to arrive in Beijing Sunday.


The latest round of six-party disarmament talks -- grouping the
two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- ended
abruptly in Beijing on Thursday after Pyongyang refused to
negotiate until it receives the cash.


In late 2005, the United States effectively blacklisted BDA on
suspicion it was handling the proceeds of North Korean
counterfeiting and money-laundering, prompting Macau authorities
to freeze the North's accounts there.


The Treasury Department also persuaded banks in Singapore,
Vietnam and elsewhere to shut down North Korean accounts,
effectively shutting the communist state out of much of the
international banking system.


Envoys to the six-party talks came together on Monday for their
first meeting since a February 13 accord that set a timetable for
the North to begin disarming.


The talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the North's
nuclear weapons ambitions. But they have been plagued by
disputes, amid which Pyongyang shocked the world by conducting
its first atomic test in October.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
insisted Friday the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill said in Beijing before
flying back to Washington.


In exchange for shutting the reactor down, North Korea is to
receive 50,000 tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use, eventually
rising to one million tonnes or equivalent energy aid if it
completely dismantles all its nuclear programs.


One concern raised by other officials was how money the United
States has claimed for so long was contaminated by money
laundering and counterfeiting could suddenly be cleared.


With that credit issue in mind, the South Korean envoy said
officials were now trying to find a bank outside China to receive
the funds.


"It seemed possible that the money will go to a bank in a third
country... that way, a solution is being worked out," the Yonhap
news agency quoted Chun as saying.

