

World crude oil prices leapt to 2007 peaks this week as commodity
markets were jangled by supply worries in major consumer the
United States and geopolitical jitters over key crude producer
Iran.


However, many raw materials -- including gold, silver, copper and
star performer tin -- were boosted by the belief that a US
interest rate cut could be in the offing, analysts said.


They added that any potential rate cut in the United States --
the world's biggest economy -- would likely bolster the demand
outlook for most commodities.


OIL: World oil prices were driven to the highest levels of the
year by news that 15 sailors from a British warship had been
seized by Iranian naval vessels in the Gulf.


Iran, a key crude producer, seized the sailors on because they
had illegally entered its territorial waters, state television
quoted the foreign ministry as saying on Friday.


Crude futures found further support from weak levels of gasoline
or petrol stocks in the United States ahead of the peak-demand
driving season, starting in May, when many Americans take to the
roads for holidays.


On Friday, London Brent crude hit 63.68 dollars per barrel, the
highest since December 8, 2006, while New York crude leapt to
62.65 dollars per barrel, which was last witnessed on December
22.


Britain's Ministry of Defence, meanwhile, said that the sailors
had been engaged in "routine" anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi
waters, and demanded their immediate release.


"It's premature to judge the seriousness of this incident, but it
is potentially explosive," said Fimat analyst John Kilduff.


Iran is the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil and is the
second-biggest player in the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries after cartel kingpin Saudi Arabia.


The news came as the United Nations Security Council prepared to
vote on new sanctions aimed at forcing Tehran to curb its nuclear
programme.


Industry experts fear that Iran might disrupt its crucial oil
exports if the international community punishes the Islamic
republic with economic sanctions.


Oil price gains have also been underscored this week by increased
expectations of a possible cut in American interest rates.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in May leapt to 63.02 dollars per barrel, from 60.30
dollars the previous week.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in May jumped to
62.15 dollars per barrel from 57.11 dollars.


GOLD: The price of gold climbed on Thursday to the highest level
since the start of this month, lifted by a weakening US dollar
and rising crude prices.


Gold prices hit as high as 666.92 dollars on the London Bullion
Market, reaching a level which was last seen on March 1, 2006.


"Gold prices continued to strengthen ... driven by the weaker
dollar and further buoyed by the firmer oil prices," said
Barclays Capital analyst Sudakshina Unnikrishnan.


The US Federal Reserve held borrowing costs at 5.25 percent, but
tweaked its policy statement in what some saw as a move to lay
the ground for a potential cut in rates in the face of economic
weakness.


The Fed statement helped propel the euro to a two-year high of
1.3411 dollars earlier this week. A weaker US dollar makes gold
cheaper for buyers using other currencies.


The precious metal is also benefiting from higher oil prices,
which increase the risk of inflation. That increases the
attractiveness of gold as a defence against the erosion of the
value of money.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices rose to 656.20 dollars
per ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 653.20 dollars the
previous Friday.


SILVER: Silver prices rose in line with gains by gold and copper.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices stood at 13.37
dollars per ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.07 dollars the
previous week.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Sister metals palladium and platinum
followed other precious metals prices higher.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum rose to
1,232 dollars per ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,217 the
previous week.


Palladium firmed to 354 dollars per ounce, from 351 dollars one
week earlier.


BASE METALS: Copper and tin prices shone as the complex was
boosted by rising Chinese demand and hopes of a possible US rate
cut. Some base metals fell on profit-taking towards the end of
the week.


Copper hit the best level so far this year, striking 6,865
dollars per tonne, which was last seen on December 13, 2006.


"The return of Chinese buyers to the market also attracted fresh
flows from investors, adding additional upwards pressure on
prices," said Calyon analyst Michael Widmer said.


Tin leapt to a new historic high of 14,351 dollars per tonne,
also lifted by production problems in leading producer Indonesia.


On Friday, three-month copper prices jumped to 6,790.50 dollars
per tonne on the LME, from 6,490 dollars the previous week.


Three-month aluminium prices eased to 2,770 dollars per tonne
from 2,775 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices slid to 44,495 dollars per tonne from
46,800 dollars.


Three-month lead prices gained to 1,926 dollars per tonne from
1,885 dollars.


Three-month zinc prices firmed to 3,226 dollars per tonne from
3,220 dollars.


Three-month tin prices soared to 14,350 dollars per tonne from
13,900 dollars a week earlier.


RUBBER: Rubber prices rose this week owing to unfavourable
growing conditions and speculative trade on the Tokyo Rubber
exchange which has seen prices trending higher since December
2006.


"It's the dry season and the latex is unable to come out so the
raw material is in shortage," said Robert Chai, broker with
Malaysian firm Intracom.


"Also in the Japanese market, speculators are pushing the market
higher."


Malaysian rubber prices moved higher Friday, with the Malaysian
Rubber Board's benchmark SMR20 at 214.60 cents per kilogram
compared to 203.65 cents the previous week.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Grains and soya prices gained across the board.


"Corn, wheat and soy beans were up on technical recovery ...
after the weakness of the previous weeks," said Allendale analyst
Joe Victor.


"The long term trend is still up for corn and soy beans, because
of the demand which is supposed to remain very strong."


On the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of wheat for May
delivery rose to 4.6550 US dollars per bushel on Friday, from
4.6075 dollars the previous week.


Maize for May delivery increased to 4.10 dollars per bushel on
Friday, from 3.995 dollars the previous week.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- gained to 7.71
dollars on Friday, from 7.5350 dollars the previous week.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price of a tonne of
wheat for November delivery -- which was the most traded contract
-- rose to 89.50 pounds on Friday, compared with 88.50 the
previous week.


COCOA: Cocoa prices hit their best level for about three and a
half years.


Cocoa futures were "underpinned by continued speculative buying,
as concerns about lower crop prospects in West Africa remain,"
said Sucden analyst Michael Davies.


In London, cocoa prices jumped to 1,046 pounds per tonne, which
was last seen in October 2003, while New York cocoa surged as
high as 1,920 dollars per tonne, which was last reached in May
2003.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for May delivery
jumped to 1,039 pounds per tonne, from 989 pounds a week earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the May contract stood at
1,907 dollars per tonne on Friday, from 1,792 dollars the
previous week.


COFFEE: Coffee prices gained ground.


"Coffee futures jumped higher with strong support from
speculative buying," Davies added.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for May delivery stood at
1,567 dollars per tonne, from 1,509 dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for May delivery gained to 113.45 US cents
per pound on Friday, from 109.90 cents the previous week.


SUGAR: Sugar prices sweetened.


"Sugar futures were firmer, supported by trade buying, while some
producer selling kept a lid on the market as it remains
rangebound," Davies noted.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of a tonne of white sugar for
August delivery increased to 331.30 dollars, compared with 329
dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
stood at 10.21 US cents per pound, from 10.20 US cents the
previous week.


WOOL: Wool prices unwound as the Australian dollar appreciated by
about 1.75 percent against the US dollar this week, making
Australia's wool exports more expensive for buyers abroad using
other currencies.


"Falls were seen across all micron ranges, but more so in fleece
types than skirtings," the Australian Wool Industry Secretariat
said.


A total of 67,463 bales are rostered for sale in Sydney,
Melbourne and Fremantle next week.


The Australian wool market finished 1.9 percent lower on average,
with the Eastern index falling to 9.43 Australian dollars per
kilo from 9.62 dollars the previous week.

