

Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang, China's choice to run this
southern territory, is virtually assured of winning a second term
when an elite, mainly pro-Beijing group of 800 people votes on
Sunday.


It is the first contested leadership race since Britain handed
Hong Kong back to China in 1997, but challenger Alan Leong is
seen as having virtually no chance of becoming the Chief
Executive of this global financial hub.


Election committee members are the only people in Hong Kong --
which has a population of some seven million -- who can cast
their ballots for the city's top job, and the majority of them
will support Tsang, China's chosen man.


"I am a serious, responsible, conscientious and even a stiff man,
but I can promise you that I would do this job well," Tsang told
3,000 cheering supporters at his final campaign rally late
Friday.


Tsang and Leong staged two debates during the run-up to Sunday's
vote, giving the city some of the flavour, if not quite all the
substance, of a kind of democracy that does not exist in
Communist Party-ruled China.


Many here see the fact that Tsang has had to campaign and debate
at all as a sign of change.


"This has led to a change of political culture in Hong Kong and
will also have impact on the political culture in China," said
James Sung, a political scientist at City University of Hong
Kong.


"This has set a precedent for the future, that the popularity of
a Chief Executive would affect government policies."


Under the terms of the 1997 handover, China agreed to a Basic Law
that calls universal suffrage the "ultimate aim" in selecting the
city's leader.


Since then, however, Hong Kong residents have only been allowed
to vote for the election committee, and even the committee's
decision can be overturned by the Beijing government.


Some of the committee members are appointed, though most are
elected as representatives of various professions. Most are
Beijing loyalists, although enough pro-democracy candidates won
this time to allow a challenger to stand.


Leong has no illusions about the prospect of getting the top job
-- he has repeatedly called the process rigged -- but insists his
campaign has made a difference.


"I have absolutely no chance of winning. I am not in it to get
the job," local weekly HK Magazine quoted him saying.


"I am in it to establish an election culture, and Hong Kongers
who have witnessed this campaign would agree with me that the
political landscape since the first debate has been changed," he
said.


A few dozen pro-democracy activists protested outside Tsang's
rally on Friday, denouncing what outspoken lawmaker Emily Lau
dubbed a "small-circle election".


Governed by the rule of law and driven by the freest of free
markets, Hong Kong has unique status in China -- a policy that
former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping described as "one country,
two systems" when the handover took place.


In addition to pointing the way toward universal suffrage, the
Basic Law also declared that Hong Kong's capitalist system would
remain unchanged for 50 years.


But while the city's prosperity has continued, democracy appears
to remain a far-off prospect.


"I don't think we are going to have direct elections next time
(in 2012)," said Peter Cheung, a political analyst at Hong Kong
University, explaining that any future voting system would still
likely fall under Beijing's control.


Tsang, a 40-year career civil servant, has pledged to begin
settling the democracy issue in the coming months.


"We all want to achieve universal suffrage as soon as we possibly
can," the Hong Kong Standard quoted him saying.


But in the meantime, those who have been clamouring for direct
election of the Chief Executive will see their wishes unfulfilled
on Sunday.


"There could be people who cast blank ballots as a sign of
protest of the election arrangement," said City University's
Sung. "If there are more than 10 blank ballots, China would not
be very happy."

