

Taiwanese authorities are to temporarily shut one lane of a busy
road to protect millions of butterflies on their seasonal
migration, officials said Saturday.


Under the measure, one lane of the freeway near Linei township in
central Taiwan will be closed on the mornings of April 3-5 during
the "peak hours" of the yearly migration by purple-spotted
butterflies.


The measure may lead to traffic jams but it is worth doing, said
Lee Thay-ming, head of the National Freeway Bureau.


"Human beings need to coexist with the other species even if they
are tiny butterflies," Lee told AFP.


About one third of the island's purple-spotted butterflies risk
their lives at the end of winter by flying north along the
300-kilometre (180 mile) route, which cuts across the elevated
road, butterfly expert Jhan Jia-long said.


According to a study of Jhan's group, an estimated 11,500
butterflies flew over the freeway per minute in the three hours
to the noon on April 3, 2005, and that at least one million
butterflies flew past the area on that day.


"A number of butterflies perished when they were dragged into
strong turbulence caused by cars racing along the freeway," Jhan
said.


Professor Sweehu Cheng of I-Shou University, one of the
volunteers dedicated to the protection of indigenous butterflies,
estimated that many thousands of butterflies were killed on the
freeway each spring.


Authorities also erected a protective net along the freeway,
hoping that butterflies would be forced to fly higher and avoid
crashing with cars.


The third trial measure being taken is to install ultraviolet
lights under the elevated road which the experts said could lure
the light-sensitive insects to fly safely underneath.


The measures were aimed to reduce the ecological impact from the
construction of the freeway, Cheng said, adding that butterflies
are also a key link of the island's food chain.


"The factor (protection of butterflies) was not taken into
consideration when the freeway was built," he said. The freeway
was inaugurated more than four years ago.


Cheng said he had not expected the proposed protective measures,
presented by him and another professor of I-Shou University Lin
Tieh-hsung and estimated to cost around one million Taiwan
dollars (30,000 US) to be approved.


Each winter, millions of purple-spotted butterflies move south
beginning in November, with around 600,000 wintering in "Purple
Butterfly Valley" of Maolin, which along with the Monarch
butterfly's winter home in Mexico is one of only two mass
wintering sites known in the world, Jhan said.

