

Spain's conservative opposition Popular Party on Friday said it
would boycott the country's main media group Prisa, which
publishes the centre-left El Pais newspaper, unless its chairman
Jesus Polanco apologised for comparing the group with Franco.


The party said Polanco's address at an annual general meeting
Thursday was "intolerable" after he criticised the party for its
bitter opposition to the Socialist government's anti-terror
policies.


Polanco said the party's attitude came from a "desire for
revenge" on Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero,
who came to office after a general election win just three days
after the March 2004 Madrid train bombings.


The then conservative government blamed the attacks on ETA
although evidence was rapidly emerging to support the now
generally accepted view that Islamic radicals angry at Spain's
military support for the United States in Iraq were to blame.


The Popular Party has put Zapatero under pressure after his
policy of seeking a negotiated settlement with armed separatist
group ETA in the northern Basque region ran into the sand after
the group ended a nine-month ceasefire with a deadly attack in
Madrid in December.


The party was also outraged after the high court found the leader
of ETA's political wing Batasuna, who appeared in court midweek,
had no case to answer on a charge of "glorifying terrorism."


Some conservatives saw the decision to dismiss the case against
Arnaldo Otegi as politically motivated.


Polanco accused the Popular Party of an attitude which smacked of
"pure Franquism," in allusion to late military dictator General
Francisco Franco.


"There are those who want to go back to the days of the civil
war," said Polanco, referring to the conflict which tore Spain
apart and led to Franco's nationalists taking power from 1939 to
his death in 1975.


A Popular Party statement said Polanco's comments were "totally
unjustified" and that the party would boycott interviews and
debates with Prisa-owned media outlets if Polanco did not
"publicly and unequivocally" withdraw his comments.


Socialist Party deputy leader Jose Blanco dubbed the Popular
Party decision a "serious attack on a private communications
enterprise" and accused the party of trying to "put pressure" on
the media.


Prisa also controls private radio station Cadena Ser, generally
seen as close to the socialist-led government, as well as sports
daily AS and the Cuatro television broadcaster.


A statement by Cadena Ser journalists regretted the Popular Party
move and said that they were afforded full editorial independence
at the station and that Polanco's words were simply his own
opinion to which he was entitled.

