

Pakistan's cricketers, shaken by the murder of coach Bob Woolmer,
which followed their ignominious World Cup exit, were to head
home Saturday as Jamaican police hunted for clues about the
killing.


Forensics experts took DNA samples and fingerprints from the
players, but police and Pakistani cricket officials downplayed
any suggestion that they were suspects in the murder of their 58
-year-old coach.


"Our priority is to take the players back to Pakistan," team
manager Talat Ali said.


"Everyone in Pakistan is looking forward (to their return),
especially the families of the players. They want the boys back
in Pakistan as soon as possible."


No arrests have yet been made in connection with the strangling
of Woolmer, a former England international who had coached the
Pakistan team since 2004.


Woolmer died in hospital on Sunday after being found unconscious
in his hotel room, just one day after a stunning loss to Ireland
knocked Pakistan, the 1992 World Cup champions, out of the
tournament.


Jamaican police announced Thursday that he was strangled, and
have since suggested that he may have known his killer or
killers, amid swirling rumours about the possibility that match-
fixing gangs could have been involved.


Authorities in Jamaica, one of the Caribbean nations hosting
World Cup matches, ordered that an inquest be held before a jury
as soon as possible, local media reported Friday, meaning that
Woolmer's body would stay put.


Pakistan has dispatched a senior diplomat from Washington to
liaise with Jamaican police. Meanwhile, team physiotherapist
Darryn Lifson and trainer Murray Stevenson, both South Africans,
said they would remain in Kingston.


"We promised the family to stay until everything is sorted out,"
Lifson told AFP, adding that authorities were keeping Woolmer's
family informed of all developments in the case.


Jamaica's deputy police commissioner Mark Shields said the team
members were "not being treated any differently from anyone else
at this stage."


"It is important to eliminate as well as identify suspects," he
told TVJ television.


In an interview with the BBC, Shields suggested that Woolmer's
killer may not have been a stranger, and that more than one
person may have been involved.


"Clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it may be that
he knew who that person was," Shields said.


Outgoing Pakistan Cricket Board chief Naseem Ashraf, who resigned
in the wake of the team's unexpected elimination, dismissed the
notion that any of the players could have been involved in the
crime.


"No, there is no suspicion on the Pakistan team. This is
ridiculous," Ashraf told AFP.


"The Pakistani team were at the hotel like everyone else (and)
they gave their statements -- they were never interrogated. The
whole team is under a lot of trauma and stress."


The players were to leave Jamaica on Saturday after two days in
Montego Bay, where Ashraf said they had been taken out of fears
for their safety.


Ashraf also rejected suggestions that Woolmer may have been the
victim of criminal gangs fearful of exposure of their involvement
in match-fixing in claims that may have arisen in a book Woolmer
was planning to write.


"There is no truth in the reports that Bob was killed by gambling
mafia," he told a news conference in Islamabad, a theory also
rejected by Woolmer's family.


"Contrary to reports, we can confirm there is nothing in any book
Bob has written that would explain this situation and there were
no threats received," said a statement issued by Woolmer's wife
Gill and sons Dale and Russell from Cape Town.


Woolmer was coach of South Africa when their former captain
Hansie Cronje was bought off by bookmakers in 1996, but was never
alleged to have been involved himself.


Since taking over the Pakistan team in 2004, he had talked of the
stresses of managing one of the most volatile teams in world
cricket.


His family said Woolmer would have wanted the sport's showpiece
tournament to go on.


"He gave his life to the service of cricket and cricketers and
endeared himself to anyone who came into contact with him," the
statement said.


"Bob would definitely have wanted the World Cup to continue."

