

At least 60 people have been killed in two days of clashes
between the army and militiamen in DR Congo as an arrest warrant
was issued on Friday for opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba for
alleged high treason.


The former vice president, who was defeated in historic
presidential elections last year, sought refuge in the South
African embassy late Thursday after heavy fighting broke out
between members of his personal bodyguard and government troops
in the capital Kinshasa.


"The judicial authorities... have issued an arrest warrant for
high treason against Jean-Pierre Bemba," government spokesman
Toussaint Tshilombo Send told AFP.


"Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces for his own
ends," the spokesman said.


The fighting broke out after Bemba, also a former rebel chief,
ignored a government order for his bodyguards to be integrated
into the regular army.


Western security sources told AFP that 49 government troops had
been killed, while they quoted commanders of Bemba's bodyguard as
saying their dead, wounded, missing or deserted approached 400,
without being able to give a breakdown of the figures.


Meanwhile officials at various Kinshasa hospitals told AFP that
around 10 civilians had been brought to their morgues, while
civilian and military wounded in the hospitals were put at 60 at
least, not counting those being cared for by the UN mission in
DRC.


Bemba insisted Friday that he was the victim of a government
onslaught.


"It's me who's been the victim of the attack and encirclement of
my residence for weeks," Bemba told Belgian public radio VRT,
adding that he believed the authorities wanted to eliminate him.


"You can't turn the roles on their heads. I am truly the victim
and am not guilty," he added, insisting that he no longer had
control over his troops after they had left his residence.


Shells and mortars rained down on the Congolese capital for 22
hours straight, as a "phenomenal quantity" of bullets ricocheted
between buildings, a Western official said.


Businesses, homes and even foreign embassies were ravaged in the
fighting.


"The city has been taken over by soldiers from successive
rebellions who are accustomed to war looting and for whom the
notion of common good or private property does not exist," a
diplomat posted in Kinshasa said on the condition of anonymity.


A petrol storage tank was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in
flames near Ndolo air base in the northern district of Gombe,
where Bemba's residence is located, diplomatic sources said.


A thick plume of smoke was visible from more than 10 kilometres
(six miles) away.


The district was later brought "under the control of the
Congolese army," according to the spokesman for the UN mission in
the country (MONUC), Lieutenant-Colonel Didier Rancher.


"There are still some shots in other districts but the situation
has calmed down," he added.


Two French nationals have been wounded by stray bullets but their
lives are not in danger, a foreign ministry spokesman said in
Paris.


The Greek embassy in Kinshasa was also hit by a shell that
shattered windows and damaged the interior, but there were no
casualties, the Greek government said.


The violence broke out mid-morning Thursday near Bemba's home,
prompting residents to flee their homes and schools.


As the clashes intensified, Bemba took shelter in the South
African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


Bemba, who refused to confirm Friday that he was hiding in the
South African embassy, was elected a senator in January, a
position that carries immunity from prosecution during the term
of office.


The DRC chief prosecutor, Tshimanga Mukeba, told AFP that
parliament would be approached with a request to lift Bemba's
immunity.


The international community on Friday expressed deep concern at
the renewed violence and called for a ceasefire.


The United Nations peacekeeping force in DRC evacuated more than
600 people from the area caught up in fighting Thursday.


Tensions rose in Kinshasa after the government of President
Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to scale down
the military contingent protecting Bemba and another former vice
president, Azarias Ruberwa.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents under Kabila during a post-war
transition to democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated as
president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Since his election as a senator, Bemba has refused to have his
bodyguard integrated into the regular army, arguing that his
personal security could not be guaranteed.

