

Chinese President Hu Jintao heads to Russia on Monday for talks
on growing energy, trade and diplomatic ties between the two
countries that are posing a growing counterweight to US power in
the world.


Hu's three-day visit will include talks with Russian President
Vladimir Putin on the Iran nuclear issue and is expected to
result in the signing of trade and investment deals worth at
least two billion dollars, according to Chinese officials.


Russia and China, which both have energy interests in Iran, have
sought to blunt US pressure on Tehran over its nuclear
programmes.


Their closer cooperation comes as the United States is
increasingly short of friends in the world, oil-rich Russia feels
threatened by the West, and China seeks additional suppliers for
its growing energy needs, analysts said.


"There's a triangular relationship among China, Russia and the
United States. If any two countries improve ties, it will have an
influence on the third party," said Shi Yajun, a professor of
Russian Studies at Shanghai's East China Normal University.


"So, as China-Russia ties get closer, the more concern US leaders
will have."


Ties have improved steadily since China and Russia set aside
decades of Cold War rivalry after the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991, growing closer amid a shared concern over US power
around the world.


In February, Moscow and Beijing signed a joint statement calling
for a "democratisation of international relations" to build a
multi-polar world.


"This is a very significant visit, for both political and
economic relations between the two countries," said Sergei
Sanakoyev, head of Moscow's Russian- Chinese Centre for Trade and
Economic Cooperation, a lobby group.


Relations have received a further push from increasing trade,
which reached a record 33.4 billion dollars in 2006, up nearly 15
percent from 2005, according to Chinese figures.


"As our relations and strategic interaction forges ahead, I am
sure that the objectives we set with President Putin -- to bring
trade to 60-80 billion dollars by 2010 -- will be met," said Hu,
who is making his third trip to Russia as president, in an
interview with Russian media last week.


Russia's energy resources and China's insatiable hunger for fuel
will lead the way in trade growth, experts believe.


Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Li Hui told a briefing last
week that Hu and Putin would discuss long-delayed plans for a
Siberian oil pipeline.


Russia in 2003 opted against plans for a single pipeline straight
to China, choosing instead to skirt its neighbour with a line to
Russia's Pacific coast.


Since then, the talk has been of building a branch off that main
route to China's oil capital Daqing.


The prospect of closer Sino-Russian energy ties has caused some
supply concerns in the West, but Li sought to ease those fears,
while offering no specifics on next week's talks.


"Energy cooperation between China and Russia... will not
undermine the interests of other countries or impact (on) the
world energy landscape," he said.


Experts doubt the two countries, which once bitterly vied for
domination of the communist world, will ever walk completely in
step, but the current improvement in relations is expected to
continue blossoming.


"Relations are the best they've ever been and this visit will
make them even better," Professor Shi said.

