

Rugby Football Union (RFU) chiefs on Friday held talks with their
French counterparts who are threatening a club boycott of both
European competitions.


The Ligue Nationale de Rugby (LNR) announced two months ago that
all 14 French first division clubs would not participate in the
continent's top club competitions next season.


The LNR blamed the RFU over their refusal to hand over share and
voting rights in European Rugby Cup (ERC) Limited to leading
English clubs, although domestic fixture congestion in France
caused by the World Cup is seen by many as the major reason for
the planned mass withdrawal.


The RFU management board on Friday meet with the French
Federation president Bernard Lapasset and vice-president Pierre
Camou.


The Board said they rejected the LNR's latest proposal regarding
English shareholding in ERC, claiming it did not provide a long-
term solution to current difficulties. The RFU also felt it was
inappropriate for organisations in one country to seek to
influence negotiations between parties in another.


RFU chairman Martyn Thomas insisted it was "wholly inappropriate"
for the LNR to want an involvement in talks between Twickenham
and Premier Rugby.


Thomas said: "Our agreement with PRL (Premier Rugby Ltd) still
has two years to run, and under that agreement they have
committed to participation in ERC competitions.


"We have been in negotiation with PRL for some months on a new,
comprehensive long-term package for professional rugby and have
reached heads of agreement stage. It is wholly inappropriate for
LNR to be seeking a voice in these negotiations.


"We wait to hear from LNR if they are going to participate in
next year's ERC competitions."


Thomas said that the RFU were urging the French to nominate
alternative clubs for the competitions if the proposed boycott
goes ahead.


"If they do not compete, we are looking to the FFR (Federation
Francaise de Rugby) to nominate other French teams to
participate," he added.


If French clubs carry out their withdrawal threat, the European
Cup and Challenge Cup could be slashed to 16-team competitions
next season.

