

Pakistan's cricketers head home later Saturday after a World Cup
campaign which will be forever scarred by the horrific murder of
coach Bob Woolmer.


They will leave with their country's cricket chief Naseem Ashraf
insisting that the players are not suspects in the killing of the
former England Test batsman.


Suggestions that the 58-year-old Woolmer was targeted because he
was about to blow the whistle on match-fixing were also denied.


"There is no truth in the reports that Bob was killed by a
gambling mafia. If it is true then it is the responsibility of
Jamaican police officials to unveil the real faces," Ashraf said.


Ashraf said that any suggestion the team was targeted in the
police investigation was ridiculous.


"No, there is no suspicion on the Pakistan team. This is
ridiculous," Ashraf told AFP.


"The Pakistani team were at the hotel like everyone else (and)
they gave their statements, they were never interrogated. The
whole team is under a lot of trauma and stress."


Team manager Talat Ali said the squad had given DNA samples as
well as being finger-printed.


"Our priority is to take the players back to Pakistan," Ali said.


"Everyone in Pakistan is looking forward (to their return),
especially the families of the players. They want the boys back
in Pakistan as soon as possible."


Woolmer's death by strangulation a day after his team were
knocked out of cricket's showpiece by minnows Ireland has become
a diplomatic incident amid rumours of involvement by match-fixing
gangs.


England captain Michael Vaughan said the murder was horrific but
insisted that the World Cup must go on.


South Africa fast bowler Allan Donald had said that the sport's
showpiece tournament should now be called off.


"It's a horrific time for world cricket. We all knew what a good
bloke Bob was," said Vaughan. "But I think the World Cup has to
go on, the game has to go on."


Responding to Donald's calls for the tournament to be called off,
Vaughan said: "I can understand his emotion and his thoughts
there but the best thing for this game is to show it in a great
light."


The England captain admitted his entire squad was stunned by the
news of the murder of Woolmer, who had also coached English
county Warwickshire and South Africa.


"We're all in complete shock," said Vaughan.


"The inquiry has been going on for a few days and the
announcement last night came as a huge shock to all the team.


"Our thoughts are with Bob's family. But while there is a murder
inquiry going on, and a police investigation, it's very difficult
to comment."


The New Zealand squad were assured by the ICC that they are not
now facing a greater threat following the murder of Woolmer.


Black Caps general manager Lindsay Crocker insisted Friday: "We
have been assured by the ICC we are not regarded as a target or
are in any specific danger.


"Nonetheless they have increased security across the board."

