

The US House of Representatives Friday voted to impose an August
31, 2008 deadline to pull combat troops out of Iraq, prompting a
veto threat and a furious rebuke from President George W. Bush.


In the boldest challenge yet to Bush's war powers, lawmakers
voted 218 to 212 to link a 124-billion-dollar war budget to a
timeline for withdrawal, significantly raising the stakes in an
escalating feud with the president.


"This war is a grotesque mistake," House speaker Nancy Pelosi
said, closing a passionate and often acrimonious debate.


"The American people will not support a war without end, and
neither should this Congress."


But an infuriated Bush quickly vowed to veto the bill if it
reaches his desk, accusing Democratic leaders of second guessing
the generals running the war and of abdicating their
responsibilities to the US armed forces.


"Democrats in the House, in an act of political theater, voted to
substitute their judgment for that of our military commanders on
the ground in Iraq."


Bush said the bill had no chance of becoming law: "I will veto it
if it comes to my desk."


White House spokesman Tony Snow said the bill would put
"handcuffs on generals, colonels, lieutenant colonels, majors,
captains, lieutenants, sergeants, corporals, privates and
everybody else."


Two Republicans broke with their leaders and voted in favor of
the bill. Fourteen Democrats voted against their own party's bid
to end the war and Bush's surge of more than 21,500 more troops
into Iraq.


The legislation funding the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
presented Republican lawmakers with a dilemma: if they opposed
the timetable plan, they risked being portrayed as voting against
a bill providing funding for American troops locked in fierce
combat.


Democratic Representative John Murtha, a passionate advocate of a
US withdrawal from Iraq, said: "We are going to bring those
troops home, we are going to start changing the direction of this
great country.


"The American people in the last election sent a message, they
said we want the Iraqis to solve their own problems in Iraq," he
said, in a speech on the House floor greeted by applause and a
standing ovation by Democrats.


But Republican Minority leader John Boehner said the bill would
send a damning message about the US commitment to fighting global
terrorism.


"We are in the midst of a fight with an enemy that is not just in
Iraq, that's all over the world," he said.


The 124-billion-dollar emergency supplemental spending package
for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq would tie the deployment of
combat forces to strict standards for rest, equipment and
training of troops.


It also would create benchmarks that would hold the Iraqi
government accountable for progress toward self-governance and
security.


If the Iraqis fail to meet the objectives, a withdrawal of troops
would have to begin within months.


No matter how the Iraqi government performs, the bill calls for
the withdrawals to begin in March 2008 and for most US combat
forces to be out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The package passed after the Democrats overcame divisions within
their own ranks from lawmakers who had been demanding an
immediate withdrawal from Iraq.


Despite Bush's stand, Democrats saw the bill as part of a
concerted political campaign to force the end of US involvement
in Iraq and pressure the president's Republican backers.


Separately, a Senate committee on Thursday approved its own draft
emergency war funding measure, setting a March 2008 deadline to
withdraw most US combat troops from Iraq.


The House and Senate versions must be reconciled, then the
president must sign the measure for it to become law. To override
a presidential veto, each chamber would have to secure a two-
thirds majority.


The Democratic-controlled Senate last week rejected a bid to pass
a separate binding resolution that would have called for US
troops to be pulled out of Iraq by the end of March 2008.

