

Democratic Republic of Congo troops restored order to the streets
of the capital Kinshasa on Friday after two days of fighting
killed at least 60 people, the United Nations mission here said.


The clashed flared up between the army and guards loyal to
defeated presidential election candidate and former warlord Jean-
Pierre Bemba, the first such violence in the city since historic
elections five months ago.


The fighting, which broke out after Bemba ignored a government
order for his bodyguards to be integrated into the regular army,
had ravaged businesses, homes and even foreign embassies.


By late Friday, following calls from around the world for a
ceasefire, the situation had calmed, although sporadic gunfire
could still be heard in the centre and east of the city.


MONUC, the UN mission, confirmed that hostilities had ended and
France's minister delegate for cooperation, Brigitte Girardin,
told AFP that she had spoken to DRC President Joseph Kabila and
that he had told her that the situation was "in hand".


In a statement, MONUC welcomed the ceasefire but said it "deeply
regrets the fact that force was used in order to resolve a
situation that could and should have been settled through
dialogue."


It praised the government for its part in bringing an end to the
fighting but urged it to "continue to act responsibly" in
handling the ceasefire.


In particular, it said Kinshasa would have to restore confidence
in the way it deals with the militia loyal to Bemba who have now
surrendered.


"MONUC expects that the government will act towards them in
accordance with international legal norms, as set forth in the
Geneva Conventions," it said.


Government spokesman Toussaint Tshilombo Send earlier on Friday
told AFP that an arrest warrant had been issued for Bemba for
high treason. "Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces
for his own ends," he said.


The former ex-vice president insisted he was the victim of a
government onslaught and claimed the authorities wanted to
eliminate him.


"It's me who's been the victim of the attack and encirclement of
my residence for weeks," Bemba told Belgian public radio VRT.


"You can't turn the roles on their heads. I am truly the victim
and am not guilty," he added, insisting that he no longer had
control over his troops after they had left his residence.


Western security sources told AFP that 49 government troops were
killed in the fighting, and quoted commanders of Bemba's
bodyguard as saying their dead, wounded, missing or deserted
approached 400, without giving any further detail.


Meanwhile, officials at various Kinshasa hospitals told AFP that
around 10 civilians had been brought to their morgues, while
civilian and military wounded in the hospitals were put at 60 at
least, not counting those being cared for by MONUC.


Shells and mortars rained down on the Congolese capital for 22
hours straight, as a "phenomenal quantity" of bullets ricocheted
between buildings, a Western official said.


A petrol storage tank was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in
flames near Ndolo air base in the northern district of Gombe,
where Bemba's residence is located, diplomatic sources said.


Speaking to AFP by telephone from Brazzaville, the Republic of
Congo capital which lies across the Congo river from Kinshasa,
Girardin said she believed the DRC was going through a "real
democratic transition."


"Now, the time has come for everyone to mobilise and mobilise
their energy for the development of the DRC," the French minister
said, urging a resumption of negotiations between different
factions in the country.


She is planning to meet with Kabila in Kinshasa next Friday,
after being forced to postpone Thursday's planned visit because
of the fighting.

