

For the near capacity crowd attending Friday's World Cup match
between West Indies and Ireland at Sabina Park, the investigation
into the murder of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was a case of out
of sight, out of mind.


With the action taking place on the field, particularly with the
home side involved, many people seemed unconcerned about the
high-profile criminal case that has put the island on the world
stage for all the wrong reasons.


They danced and drank in the sunshine; they also danced and drank
when it started raining.


After all, both these sides were already assured of a place in
the next round.


Ironically, Ireland reached the second round with a stunning win
against former champions Pakistan, the day before Woolmer's
death.


Conversations around the ground concentrated more on whether or
not the Irish could upset West Indies and carry two points into
the Super Eights, the next stage of the competition, which begins
next Tuesday with the hosts facing Australia in Antigua.


Inevitably, reporters were stopped in the corridors, the
lavatories, the bars, and asked: "Have they found who did it
yet?"


There was also plenty of star-gazing to be done.


In the new, colossal North Stand, interntaional footballers Andy
Cole, Sol Campbell, and Dwight Yorke - all close mates of the
West Indies captain Brian Lara - were enjoying the cricket.


The atmosphere in the stadium here would have been good news for
ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed and World Cup managing director
Chris Dehring, who issued a joint statement early on Friday with
the clarion call for the tournament to continue.


"This is not the first time that tragedy has visited a sporting
event, but what we must all do now is to show how resolute the
game is by proving ourselves strong enough to move on from what
has happened," Speed said.


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport.


"By doing that we will demonstrate that cricket cannot be put off
by a cowardly criminal act.


"And if the players and officials of all the competing teams can
do that then it would be a fitting tribute to Bob Woolmer and the
contribution he has made to our sport as a fine player and an
outstanding coach at all levels."

