

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will not go to New York for
Saturday's UN Security Council meeting on Tehran's nuclear
programme because the United States delayed issuing him a visa,
an official said on Friday.


"President Ahmadinejad's trip has been made impossible because of
the lateness in supplying a visa by the United States," the
official told AFP under condition of anonymity.


"Because of this, it is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on
time, and the president's trip has therefore become virtually
impossible," he added.


A US State Department spokesman confirmed the Iranians had
informed the US mission at the United Nations that the
Ahmadinejad would not now be travelling to New York, but denied
Washington had deliberately delayed the visas.


"Our UN Mission has been informed that President Ahmadinejad has
now decided not to come to New York," deputy US State Department
spokesman Tom Casey said.


"As we said, we provided visas to President Ahmadinejad's
delegation, including his security and aircrew, in time for him
to come to New York and speak at the Security Council on
Saturday."


The Iranian official accused Washington of dragging its feet over
the visas to hamper Ahmadinejad's trip. The two countries broke
off diplomatic ties 27 years ago.


"The United States deliberately issued the visas late to prevent
the president from going, and they are responsible. Also the
visas for the team members who would have accompanied him were
not issued, which makes the trip impossible," the Iranian
official said.


Ahmadinejad had said he wanted to attend the Security Council
meeting at which a vote is expected on a new resolution
strengthening UN sanctions against Iran.


The new draft, which toughens sanctions imposed in December in
response to Tehran's continued refusal to halt sensitive nuclear
work, was presented last week to the council's 10 non-permanent
members for their comments.


The sanctions package is contained in the draft by the council's
five veto- wielding members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


The Security Council is expected to vote on Saturday on the
resolution over Iran's continued refusal to suspend uranium
enrichment -- the process that makes nuclear fuel but that in
highly extended form can also make atomic weapons.


Casey said any suggestion that Washington had delayed the visas
was "false, accusing the Iranian leader of being "unwilling to
stand before the Council and take the heat for his continued
defiance of the international community."

