

Inter Milan, who have dominated the Serie A this season, are one
step away from being crowned champions for the second straight
year against AS Roma on Wednesday.


Victory would give Inter an unbeatable 19-point advantage on
Roma, assuring the champions their 14th Serie A crown with six
games left this season.


The tie between the top two sides was first scheduled back in
February, but was postponed following the riots in Sicily.


And Inter, who finished third last season but were awarded the
title after Juventus and AC Milan were found guilty of match-
fixing, will be looking to make the most of their home advantage
for the celebrations as well as maintaining their unbeaten run
this season.


But on the eve of the key tie Inter coach Roberto Mancini warned
his side against getting carried away with premature thoughts of
the title.


"It's not certain that we'll succeed in winning the title
tomorrow. I'm expecting a difficult tie and I don't think Roma
are coming to Milan to celebrate with us.


"There will of course be a little more tension and emotion, it's
only human, but we should not think that we're going to close the
deal," said Mancini.


"We have a match to play and at the end we'll see where we are -
we can have a party or it will be put off until later."


Inter have currently 81 points from 31 games, with Roma on 65.


A victory would also allow Inter to focus on their bid to break
the 100-point barrier. To do so they need 19 points from the
remaining 21 on offer.


But Roma will be gunning to cause some upsets in Milan, a week
after being humiliated 7-1 by Manchester United in the Champions
League.


"We're not going to the San Siro to join in their party," warned
captain Francesco Totti.


"It's an important match for them, but for us as well - we don't
want to let our grip on second place slip away."


After a comfortable 4-0 win at Sampdoria on Sunday, Roma
demonstrated that they had recovered from their Old Trafford
mauling.


By contrast Inter were almost unrecognisable as they were held to
a 2-2 draw at home to Palermo, a week after a goalless draw
against relegation-threatened Reggina.


It was the first time this season that the leaders have had to
settle for two consecutive draws.


"We gave them too much space and didn't start the match with
enough aggression and focus. I hope that that won't happen
against Roma," said  Mancini.


Mancini has however several players sidelined with injuries
including defender Maxwell and midfielder Patrick Vieira, with
striker Hernan Crespo uncertain after picking up a thigh injury
against Palermo.


On Roma's side Brazilian midfielder Rodrigo Taddei is uncertain.


Elsewhere Wednesday, third-placed Lazio, nine points behind Roma,
host Chievo, while AC Milan will be looking to secure the fourth
qualifying spot for Champions League next season when they visit
tailenders Ascoli.


Wednesday (15:30 GMT)


Ascoli v AC Milan, Empoli v Atalanta, Inter Milan v AS Roma,
Lazio v Chievo, Livorne v Cagliari, Reggina v Messina, Udinese v
Sampdoria


Parma v Fiorentina, Siena v Torino (both 18:30 GMT)

