

Chinese writer Guo Xiaolu was shortlisted Tuesday for the Orange
Broadband Prize for Fiction for her first novel in English among
an international field.


The shortlist for the 30,000-pound (60,000-dollar, 44,000-euro)
prize, open to female authors writing in English whose works were
published in Britain in the last year, also included writers from
India, Nigeria, Britain and the United States.


Guo's "A Concise Chinese-English Dictionary for Lovers", which is
deliberately written in bad English, is about a couple who cannot
speak each other's language.


Indian author Kirin Desai, the daughter of best-selling writer
Anita Desai, is shortlisted for her second novel "The Inheritance
of Loss", which won the 2006 Man Booker Prize.


She could become the first to scoop both the Orange and the
Booker with her tale of a cantankerous old judge, whose life in a
crumbling, isolated house in the Himalayas is turned over by the
arrival of his orphaned granddaughter and the son of his chatty
cook.


US Pulitzer Prize-winning author Anne Tyler was shortlisted for
"Digging to America" and Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
was nominated for "Half of a Yellow Sun".


The British nominees were Rachel Cusk for "Arlington Park" and
debutante novelist Jane Harris for "The Observations".


Writer Muriel Gray, the chair of the judges, said the shortlist
was "incredibly exciting".


"It represents six beautifully crafted pieces of work that are as
accessible as they are fascinating," she said.


"That this outstanding writing should come from such diverse
sources that includes five different nationalities, a world
famous author, as well as a first-time novelist, is doubly
thrilling."


Bookmaker William Hill said Adichie was the favourite to win at
11-4, followed by Desai at 3-1, Cusk at 7-2 and Harris at 5-1,
with Guo and Tyler both at 11-2.


British writer Zadie Smith won last year's prize for her novel
"On Beauty", the third time she had been shortlisted.


The winner of the prize, set up in 1996 to celebrate fiction by
women, will be announced on June 6 at the Royal Festival Hall in
London.


Shortlist:


Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: "Half of a Yellow Sun" (second novel)


Rachel Cusk: "Arlington Park" (sixth novel)


Kiran Desai: "The Inheritance of Loss" (second novel)


Guo Xiaolu: "A Concise Chinese-English Dictionary for Lovers"
(third novel)


Jane Harris: "The Observations" (first novel)


Anne Tyler: "Digging to America" (16th novel)

