

Taliban rebels are still crossing the border from Pakistan to
attack targets in Afghanistan and the two key US allies must
boost cooperation to stop them, an Afghan spokesman said Tuesday.


The comments come ahead of a planned meeting between Afghan
President Hamid Karzai and his Pakistani counterpart Pervez
Musharraf in Turkey late this month to resolve months of bad
blood over the insurgency.


"Afghanistan's problem is clear. Terrorists are crossing the
border from the other side of the border and carry out sabotage
operations. They're active there," Afghan President Hamid
Karzai's chief spokesman Karim Rahimi said.


"This is a big problem and requires more, better and effective
cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan," Rahimi told a news
conference. "Effective and honest efforts against the terrorists
are required."


Most Afghan officials, including Karzai, have long said that
Pakistan is failing to prevent Taliban-led militants from using
its soil to attack war-ravaged Afghanistan. Some say Pakistan
supports them.


Islamabad strongly denies the allegations, saying that it has
80,000 troops along the frontier and that pro-government
tribesmen recently killed 300 foreign militants in a tribal
border region.


"We never pin accusations on anyone. Whatever we say is based on
reality on the ground, whatever President Karzai says is based on
reality," spokesman Rahimi said.


Rahimi said the discussions in Turkey between Karzai and military
ruler Musharraf would focus on the Taliban insurgency and on
regional peace. Pakistan confirmed the talks on Monday but
neither side has given a date.


"In the near future there'll be talks between Afghanistan and
Pakistan to discuss the important issue of the war on terror and
the establishment of peace in the region," Rahimi said.


Pakistan was one of three countries that recognised the harsh
Taliban regime in the late 1990s but then did a U-turn to support
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan after the September 11, 2001
attacks on the United States.


More than five years on the Taliban are resurgent and rebel-
related violence has killed around 1,000 people in Afghanistan
this year, according to an AFP tally based on official reports.

