

Some 2,000 Muslim scholars, teachers and administrators from
madrassas across Pakistan Tuesday declared suicide attacks un-
Islamic and opposed enforcement of Sharia by force.


The first such gathering here also declared illegal and un-
Islamic threats to hairdressers against shaving off beards and
attacks on video shops in the name of curbing obscenity in North
West Frontier Province bordering Afghanistan. They said such acts
were a "conspiracy of some hidden powers."


The six-page declaration came as a radical madrassa, or religious
school, in Islamabad launched a Taliban-style anti-vice campaign,
triggering fears that the Islamic country was heading for
"Talibanisation."


A hardline cleric from the capital's Red Mosque this month set up
a self-styled Islamic court and issued a "fatwa" against the
female tourism minister for hugging a French paragliding
instructor after a charity jump in Paris.


Male and female students from schools attached to the mosque have
launched anti- vice patrols targeting local music and video
shops. They also briefly kidnapped two policemen and three women
including an alleged brothel owner.


They continue to occupy a government children's library they
seized in January in protest against the demolition of several
mosques that authorities said were built on illegally occupied
land.


A similar campaign is being waged by religious militants, known
as local Taliban, in several districts of tribal-dominated
northwestern Pakistan, where video shops accused of spreading
vulgarity have been blown up.


A declaration issued after the madrassa convention said "some
hidden powers are engaged in suicide attacks against the Muslim
administration of our country and the victims are our Muslim
brothers."


"Such aggressive acts are not only illegal but also against
Islamic Sharia, which can never be encouraged," it said.


It said such steps were bringing madrassas and their Islamic
scholars into disrepute and "we do not support them."


It also advised students of madrassas to understand "this
conspiracy" and keep themselves away from all such acts.


The meeting was convened by opposition politician Maulana Fazlur
Rehman, whose hardline Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party, running
thousands of madrassas in the country, had backed Afghanistan's
ousted Taliban regime.

