

The explosion that killed 108 people last month in post-Soviet
Russia's worst mining accident was caused by someone tampering
with a vital safety system, an official inquiry said Tuesday.


The "equipment was not working because of illegal modifications
carried out on the gas detector," the head of Russia's industrial
safety agency Rostekhnadzor, Konstantin Pulikovsky, said at a
presentation, RIA Novosti reported.


The system was designed to automatically cut off the electricity
supply to the mine if dangerous levels of methane were detected,
the agency reported.


The immediate cause of the explosion was a short circuit caused
by poor quality work on electric cables, Pulikovsky said.


The accident could have happened "any day there was a spark," he
said.


While the stricken Ulyanovskaya mine was regarded as one of the
most modern in Russia, a mining union has said Russian miners are
under constant pressure to cut corners to boost their wages,
which are linked to production volumes.


The commission ruled that 42 people shared responsibility for the
tragedy, including eight who died in the explosion, commission
head Nikolai Kutin told the news agency.


"The cause of the accident was the intentional actions of (mine
owner) Yuzhkuzbassugol and the responsibility lies entirely with
the management of this company," Kemerovo Governor Aman Tuleyev
told the news agency.


"This was a conscious crime committed with the aim of increasing
coal production," he said.


The commission has passed its results to Russia's prosecutor's
office, Pulikovsky said.


The owner of the mine, Yuzhkuzbassugol, said it did not dispute
the results of the commission and said it hoped to reopen the
mine by the end of June.


"The results of the investigation into the accident are
absolutely objective," Yuzhkuzbassugol general director Georgy
Lavrik told the news agency.


Yuzhkuzbassugol is owned by the Evraz metals giant in which
Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich holds a 41-percent stake.

