

Historians who say they have proof Japan was directly involved in
sexual slavery called Tuesday for the government to compensate
the thousands of former "comfort women."


Japan argues that war reparations are a matter between states,
rather than between states and individuals, and has refused to
pay former comfort women directly with government money.


"The Japanese army is responsible for a large part of the grave
violations of human rights, hence the Japanese government should
be too," historian Yoshiaki Yoshimi said. "The government does
have the legal responsibility.


"The government must acknowledge this responsibility and, even
better, have the cabinet approve that stance," he told a news
conference.


Yoshimi called for the conservative government to back a bill
repeatedly submitted to parliament that would compensate former
sex slaves.


Yoshimi, a professor at Tokyo's Chuo University, conducted
research that led Japan in 1993 to issue a landmark admission and
apology to women forced into sex with Japanese soldiers during
the Second World War.


He called a press conference with fellow historian Hirofumi
Hayashi who announced the discovery of documents from Allied
trials of Japanese war criminals purported to show the military
directly forced Asian women into sexual slavery.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, known for his conservative views on
history, caused a stir last month when he said that no documents
showed Japan "directly" enslaved women in a coercive manner, such
as by kidnapping them.


However, Abe has repeatedly said that Japan was responsible in a
broader sense and he stood behind a landmark 1993 apology to
former comfort women.


Historians believe up to 200,000 women served in brothels for
Japanese troops across Asia by the end of the war.


Japan last month closed a government-backed but privately-funded
body set up to compensate former comfort women.


Only a miniscule number of comfort women accepted payments from
the Asian Women's Fund, arguing that Japan was not taking
responsibility as the fund uses private money.

