

British inflation spiked to a decade-high 3.1 percent in March,
unsettling the Bank of England and finance minister Gordon Brown
as he bids to become prime minister later this year.


Tuesday's above-target inflation data forced BoE governor Mervyn
King to write an unprecedented explanatory letter to Brown.


This sparked charges by political opponents that the Labour
minister's economic credentials have been tarnished.


The data cemented analysts' expectations of a British interest
rate rise from 5.25 percent to 5.50 percent next month and pushed
the pound above 2.00 dollars for the first time for 14 years.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who will step late down later
this year, staunchly defended Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown,
his likely successor.


"The remarakable thing is that this is the first time that the
governor of the Bank of England has written such a letter," Blair
told journalists gathered for his monthly press conference on
Tuesday.


"I challenge anyone to name me a chancellor with a better
economic record than this one."


Brown will face fresh criticism later on Tuesday when the main
opposition Conservative party tables a vote of no-confidence in
parliament over his 1997 decision to overhaul pensions taxation.


"This inflation rise is terrible news for Gordon Brown on the day
that he faces his first ever no confidence motion," Conservative
shadow chancellor George Osborne said.


"Whether it is the destruction of the pensions system or the
broader performance of the economy, Gordon Brown's reputation for
economic competence is unravelling before our eyes."


Brown, who has repeatedly defended his overhaul of pensions
taxation, handed the Bank of England rate-setting independence a
decade ago after his Labour party swept to power in an election
landslide.


On Tuesday, the pound jumped to 2.0035 dollars, last seen in
September 1992, after news that British 12-month inflation had
hit 3.1 percent last month, the highest level since 1997 and in
breach of a government-set ceiling of 3.0 percent.


"March's unexpectedly strong consumer prices data ... and the
subsequent open letter from Mervyn King to the chancellor leave a
rise in interest rates in May virtually certain and make a
further tightening beyond May probably a bit more likely,"
Capital Economics analyst Jonathan Loynes said.


The strong pound is a boon for Britons travelling to the United
States because they can buy goods and services there more
cheaply. However, it hampers British companies whose exports will
be more expensive for customers using other currencies,
particularly the dollar.


Britain's Office for National Statistics revealed on Tuesday that
inflation had hit 3.1 percent last month, underscored by large
price increases for transport, food, non-alcoholic beverages and
furniture.


The reading significantly overshot analysts' consensus forecasts
of 2.8 percent, which was also the official figure for February.


In his explanatory letter, King wrote that inflation had moved
above target owing partly to increased crude oil prices.


"Since February, sterling oil prices have risen by around 25
percent, reversing part of the fall in prices seen in the second
half of last year," King said.


"Higher petrol prices contributed significantly to this pick up
of inflation in March.


"Some of the falls in food prices a year ago, especially of milk,
were not repeated in March this year," King said, adding that the
central bank was "determined" to bring inflation back to the 2.0
percent target.


Brown wrote in response that he "continued to support the MPC in
the forward- looking decisions it takes in the future."


The BoE's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has
increased rates three times since last August, most recently with
a surprise hike in January, as it fights rising inflation which
had surged to 3.0 percent last December.


Earlier this month, the central bank froze its key interest rate
at 5.25 percent for the third month in a row.


British borrowing costs remain at the same level as US interest
rates, while in the eurozone they stand at 3.75 percent. Japan's
key rate is 0.50 percent.

