

Jacob Zuma, deputy leader of the African National Congress (ANC),
said Tuesday he would accept the nomination for the presidency of
South Africa's ruling party even if charged with corruption.


"We have a constitution in this country that says, whether
charged or not charged, you remain innocent until found guilty,"
said Zuma, the subject of a lengthy graft probe which has seen
his former financial adviser jailed.


"Why should I find myself guilty when I have not been found by
any court to be guilty? Why should I believe I've committed a
crime when I've never commited a crime?


"Why if I'm charged and I'm innocent I should then say to the ANC
I am guilty? If I did that, I would be saying I am guilty even
before the court says so. It would be totally wrong, it would be
unconstitutional."


The ANC will vote in December on a successor as party chief to
President Thabo Mbeki. Given the ANC's stranglehold on power, the
next party leader would also be odds-on favourite to take over
from Mbeki as head of state after he stands down in 2009.


Zuma was fired as South Africa's deputy president after his
advisor Schabir Shaik was sentenced to 15 years in jail for
corruption, and he was subsequently charged.


Despite a judge throwing out charges against him in September
last year, linked to a 1999 arms deal, the country's National
Prosecuting Authority is pressing ahead with investigations.


Zuma was also acquitted last year of raping an HIV-positive
family friend, but was widely slammed for admitting in court to
having had sex with her without a condom, and for stating that he
showered afterwards for protection.


Zuma has already received the public backing of important
players, including the ANC's Youth League, but he denied Tuesday
that he was actively campaigning for the presidency ahead of the
party conference .


"We do not campaign in the ANC," he told the Cape Town press
club. "The only time you know you are standing or not standing
for anything in the ANC is when the nominations are done, and
even then you don't campaign."


He declined to offer opinions on alternatives to Mbeki, saying:
"I am not an independent person. I belong to an organisation."

