

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday rejected
suggestions that the country's secular order is under threat and
warned that such talk will only hurt democracy.


His remarks came amid a mounting debate on whether Erdogan, a
conservative with an Islamist political past, will run for the
presidency, a prospect that has the country's secularists
seething.


"Turkey is a democratic, secular, social state based on the rule
of law. None of these tenets is more important than the other;
they are also complementary," Erdogan told lawmakers of his
Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party (AKP).


"No individual or group should try to benefit by creating tension
out of these principles," he said. "The biggest threat to
democracy comes from those who constantly keep the regime and its
principles on the agenda for the sake of political gain."


He said his government is "obliged to protect Turkey's
constitutional order and is determined to do so."


Last week, outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer warned that
Turkey's secular system is under "unprecedented threat," one day
after armed forces chief General Yasar Buyukanit said the futre
president should be secular "not only in words, but in essence."


An estimated 500,000 people took to the streets for a peaceful
demonstration at the weekend to discourage Erdogan from running
for the presidency.


Although largely symbolic, the presidency embodies the secular
nature of this Muslim majority country and many fear the strict
separation of state and religion will be eroded if a former
Islamist gets the job.


Erdogan began his his political career in a now-defunct Islamist
party banned for undermining secularism and was jailed in 1999
for religious sedition.


He now describes himself as a conservative democrat, but
secularists suspect he still has a secret Islamist agenda.


He has so far not said whether he will run for the post of the
president, who is elected by parliament for a single seven-year
term.


If he chooses to run, he should be easily elected thanks to the
AKP's strong majority in parliament, where it holds 353 of the
550 seats.


The 10-day period for nominations began Monday, but no candidate
has so far come forward.


The mandate of outgoing president Ahmet Necdet Sezer, formerly
Turkey's top magistrate as head of the Constitutional Court and a
staunch secularist, ends on May 16.

