

Little more than one in four of poor people who are badly
infected with the AIDS virus have access to the antiretroviral
drugs that could save their lives, UN health agencies said on
Tuesday.


In a report, the World Health Organisation (WHO), UNAIDS and
Unicef warned that many obstacles clutter the road to the goal
set last year by the UN, which demanded universal access to
prevention and care programmes for HIV/AIDS by 2010.


WHO Director General Margaret Chan said donors, AIDS-afflicted
nations, UN agencies and other participants were now making
"substantial, ongoing progress" towards diagnosing and treating
people with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).


"Yet, in many ways, we are still at the beginning of this
commitment," Chan said in a press release to flag the report. "We
need ambitious national programmes, much greater global
mobilisation and increased accountability if we are going to
succeed."


By the end of 2006, 2,015,000 infected people in low- and middle-
income countries were receiving antiretroviral drugs, which
suppress HIV but do not eradicate it, the report said.


That is an increase of 54 percent compared to the 1.3 million
people on treatment a year earlier in these countries.


But at the same time, it represents only 28 percent of the
estimated 7.1 million badly-infected people who need the lifeline
drugs.


It also falls badly short of the WHO's own former vision -- the
much-ballyhooed "Three by Five" initiative that sought to get
these treatments to three million needy people by the end of
2005.


The report highlighted some good news, though.


Of the 2.015 million on treatment today, more than 1.3 million
are in sub- Saharan Africa, where coverage is between 24 and 33
percent of needs. In 2003, there were only 100,000 Africans on
treatment, and coverage was just two percent.


Prices for firstline drugs in the world's poorer countries fell
by an additional 10 to 20 percent last year, bringing the
reduction to between 37 and 53 percent since 2003.


But second-line drugs -- the next option if a patient exhausts
all the possibilities in firstline drugs -- "remain unaffordably
high" in these countries.


In addition, the evidence to date shows that in poor countries
where the drug rollout has taken place, people are responding
just as well to the drugs as in rich countries.


In past defence of their now-scapped pricing policy, big
pharmaceutical companies argued antiretroviral drugs were too
complex for poor countries, which lack medical staff and
laboratory testing.


But ways have been found to use medical orderlies rather than
doctors to do some of the routine work, such as ensuring that a
patient is taking his daily drug regimen, and get by without
costly lab tests.


On the other hand, only 11 percent of HIV-positive pregnant women
are getting drugs that could prevent them passing the virus to
their baby, said the report.


"There is still a long way to go," said Peter Piot, executive
director of UNAIDS. Blocking mother-to-child transmission of HIV
"remains one of the simplest and cheapest proven prevention
methods available," he said.


The report identifies eight "major challenges" for achieving the
2010 goal set by the UN General Assembly last June. Among them:


-- Universal access to treatment will require a steep increase in
the numbers of people starting these drugs each year.


-- Making mother-to-child transmission a top priority for
prevention, and scaling up help for infected children. Only
115,500 children of the 780,000 needing HIV treatment have access
to it.


-- Stepping up HIV diagnosis and support for those who find they
are infected. Surveys in 12 badly-infected African countries in
2005 found that only 12 percent of men and 10 percent of women
had been tested for the AIDS virus.


-- Incorporating male circumcision into the arsenal of weapons to
prevent the spread of HIV. A trio of clinical trials found that
men who were circumcised were more than 50 percent less likely to
get HIV than uncircumcised counterparts.


However, promoting male circumcision also requires safe surgery,
cultural sensitivity, absence of coercion and informed consent,
said the report.


+ "Towards Universal Access: Scaling Up Priority HIV/AIDS
Interventions in the Health Sector." Published by the WHO, UNAIDS
and United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef).

