

East Timor Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta demanded Tuesday an
investigation into revelations government officials were given
access-all-area passes during this month's presidential election.


Ramos-Horta, a candidate in the election, said officials from his
own office were among those who received the passes for
restricted areas while the poll was being conducted.


"The Prime Minister decided that this serious matter must be
investigated in order to find out on what grounds the passes to
the polling areas were issued and who requested them," a
statement from his office said.


The Nobel Peace laureate added that he and his chief of staff
were unaware his office had requested the passes, which are
against poll regulations.


The statement raises further fears about the credibility of the
April 9 poll, the first since the tiny nation gained independence
in 2002, amid concerns over irregularities and claims of
intimidation at polling stations.


Ramos-Horta and ruling Fretilin party candidate Fransisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres are set to contest a run-off vote in the election
next month. Neither of them gained more than 50 percent of the
initial vote.


The discrepancy over passes was revealed in local newspapers and
also contained in an election report from an EU monitoring team,
which said 88 had been issued and described it as an
"inappropriate practice."


The passes allowed the holders access to areas run by the
Technical Administrative Electoral Secretariat, where vote
collecting and counting could have been taking place.


Ramos-Horta said an investigation was urgently needed to preserve
the integrity of the election and the credibility of those who
conducted it.


Although the election was peaceful with a high voter turnout,
some candidates have demanded a recount because of voting
irregularities.


Election officials were permitted Tuesday to re-examine an
unknown number of counted votes in 26 ballot boxes after
discrepancies were discovered.


"This afternoon the appeal court has granted the CNE permission
to re-open the sealed boxes," a National Election Commission
(CNE) spokesman said.


Foreign peacekeepers and police were guarding polling booths on
election day amid fears of violence. International troops have
been in East Timor for nearly a year to ensure stability after
violence in May left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 more fleeing
their homes.


Fugitive rebel leader Major Alfredo Reinado, who leads a band of
armed followers and has eluded a manhunt by crack Australian
troops, was criticised for his role in the unrest.


But Ramos-Horta said Tuesday he wanted the manhunt called off to
try to entice Reinado back to peace talks.


"The military operation on Major Reinado has to be stopped to
give a chance for the attorney general, Reinado's lawyers and the
bishops to resume dialogues," he said.


He said the president would meet parties involved in the manhunt
later Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss stopping the military
operation.

