

A sea of wreaths had emerged outside a Hong Kong funeral home
Tuesday a day before Asia's richest woman, Nina Wang, who died
two weeks ago, was to be given a lavish send-off.


A dozen florists busied themselves inside and out at the Hong
Kong home, where Wang's funeral will be held Wednesday, as
delivery vans brought in huge bunches of flowers dedicated to
"Wang Kung-Yu-sum", the tycoon's full name.


"We were sad to see you go," one wreath read. "You are always in
our heart," read another.


Secrecy surrounds the ceremony. At least half a dozen security
staff guarded the entrance of the funeral home, barring reporters
or photographers from entering a pre-funeral vigil, which began
Tuesday afternoon.


At least 100 employees dressed in black arrived in coaches. Hong
Kong tycoon and Asia's richest man Li Ka-shing and pro-democracy
lawmaker Martin Lee also arrived to pay their respects. Neither
would speak to the media.


Wang died of an unspecified cancer on April 3 at the age of 69.
It remains a mystery as to who will inherit Wang's fortune,
estimated at 4.2 billion US dollars.


A funeral committee comprising 45 local tycoons and political
heavyweights has been put in charge of organising the ceremony,
among them Li, his two sons Victor and Richard, as well as Li
Guikang, deputy director of the Chinese government's
representative office here.


Wang's funeral will be held at 11:00 am (0300 GMT) Wednesday,
when she will be cremated in a Catholic ceremony.


Wang's real estate empire Chinachem would not comment on the
funeral arrangements except to say that ceremony would not be
open to the public.


Police sources said Wang's family had booked the whole of the
first floor of the city-centre funeral home, joining two halls
together for the ceremony.


Although the Hong Kong tycoon was famously frugal, local press
said she would get a no-expense-spared sendoff, with her family
spending millions of dollars on flowers for the funeral.


They have hired James Wong, a local florist who has supplied
flowers for the funerals of some of the city's best-known
celebrities, including popular actor and singer Leslie Cheung.


Pictures in local newspapers showed a 10-feet-long (three-metre)
memorial plaque lined with white chrysanthemums that reads
"Forever Cherish the Memory of Wang Kung Yu-sum" being carried
into the funeral home.


Local press also said the hall would be decorated in red and
white, her favourite colours -- although red is traditionally
symbolic of celebrations such as weddings.


More than a thousand red roses used to shape a heart would bedeck
the hall at the ceremony, while a drape also made of red roses
may be used to cover her coffin, local media reported.

