

Algerians began a series of anti-terrorism demonstrations across
the country on Tuesday, six days after the capital was rocked by
three Al-Qaeda suicide attacks that left 30 dead.


Carrying banners reading "the fight against terrorism continues"
and "yes to national reconcilliation" thousands of people
gathered in the capital's olympic stadium in Algiers.


Images of other rallies around the country were also broadcast
live on television. They showed hundreds of veiled women at the
head of the marches carrying Algeria's flag and pictures of
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.


Bouteflika is the architect of the country's national
reconcilliation programme that largely brought an end to the
years of bloodshed during the 1990s.


It offered amnesties to those who left the various islamic
militia that had battled with Algeria's armed forces in a civil
conflict leaving tens of thousands dead.


Last Wednesday's attacks were claimed by an Algerian islamist
militant movement formerly known as the Salafist Group for
Preaching and Combat (GSPC), but which now identifies itself as
Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa.


The violence has reignited the controversy over Bouteflika's
policy, one that the national protests are intended to
extinguish.


Meanwhile, in comments reported on Tuesday, Algerian Interior
Minister Noureddine Zerhouni said that one of the three suicide
bombs might have been set off remotely.


Evidence of the remote control device had been discovered in one
of the three cars used in the explosions which targeted the prime
minister's office in Algiers and two other locations in the
capital, he said.


"With this discovery, one plausible hypothesis is that the bombs
were not detonated by the terrorist car drivers but by someone
else not far from the disaster," Zerhouni said in comments
reported in Tuesday's press.


The minister did not say in which vehicle evidence of the device
was found.


More than 220 people were injured in the blasts, according to the
latest official toll.


Zerhouni was quoted in the Jour d'Algerie daily as saying that so
far investigations had shown that the vehicles used in the
explosions had come from abroad and that the perpetrators had
been "manipulated".


However, an interior ministry statement released on Tuesday said
that all three cars were registered in Algeria and that all three
suicide bombers were Algerian.


"These desperate terrorists resorted to suicide attacks for
spectacular effect to prove that they're still around," Zehouni
said. "Terrorism is weakening because sowing death like they did
last week shows that they are desperate."


Police also unveiled Tuesday a mobile phone text alert system
that Algerians can use to report anything suspicious.


"Dear Citizen, our brothers suffer from the remnants of a
terrorist (group) that is on the run. You must call to warn of
any threat. Call 1590 free," said a text message sent to all
Algeria's mobile phones.

