

Japan is considering a merger of its stock, commodity and other
financial markets to boost their competitiveness in an
increasingly fierce global environment, an official said Tuesday.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's top economic policy-setting panel on
Tuesday proposed facilitating the integration of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange and other financial markets into one super exchange, the
Cabinet Office official said.


The Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy, which includes Japan
Business Federation chairman Fujio Mitarai, made the proposal as
part of efforts to help Japan's financial markets cope with rapid
globalisation.


Under the proposal, the TSE could incorporate other markets such
as the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange and
the Tokyo Grain Exchange into a holding company it plans to set
up later this year.


The panel also suggested that Japan should lower the fire wall
between banks and securities firms, so that financial firms can
provide a greater range of products to their customers, the
official said.


"The fire wall remains relatively high in Japan, compared to the
United States," he said.


Although the proposals have not been adopted by the government as
official policy, local media reports suggest the plan could be
incorporated into the government's policy blueprint, due out in
June.


"Once these plans are agreed, their implementation has to be
quick, considering the rapid pace of globalisation in the
financial world," the official said.


The TSE, Asia's largest bourse, has been pursuing a series of
tie-ups in response to intense global competition.


A private company, the TSE in February signed a business alliance
with the London Stock Exchange just weeks after signing a similar
agreement with the New York Stock Exchange.


The Tokyo bourse has also held talks with the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the largest US futures market, as well as with
Germany's Deutsche Boerse, while seeking to bolster cooperation
with regional Asian bourses.


The alliance comes against a backdrop of increased merger and
acquisition activity among the world's major stock exchanges.


In June, the NYSE announced a 10-billion-dollar merger with pan-
European exchange operator Euronext to create the world's first
intercontinental market.

