

At least 13 people were killed in Iraq in a series of shootings
and bombings on Tuesday, security officials said.


In one attack, gunmen killed a professor at the Islamic Sciences
University of Baghdad, Mohammed Ali Hamza, in the southwestern
Saydiyah district of the capital, a security official said.


Attacks against Iraqi academics have steadily increased in the
past year as insurgents strike at this largely vulnerable
community.


Two people, one of them a child, were killed and one wounded in
clashes between a joint team of Iraqi and US forces and
insurgents in the capital's southwestern Al-Amel district, police
said.


One person was killed and four were wounded in a mortar attack in
Baghdad's Al- Ameriyah district.


Baghdad has been witnessing steady insurgent attacks despite a
massive security crackdown by thousands of US and Iraqi troops
which has been going on for more than two months to try to quell
the daily bloodshed.


A police brigadier general and his two bodyguards were shot dead
when gunmen attacked them near his residence in the Al-Thawra
district of Mosul, the northern Iraqi city. The high-ranking
official was not immediately identified.


The attack occurred despite a security crackdown in Mosul similar
to that in Baghdad, launched by Iraqi and US security forces
early this month to rein in growing insurgent violence in Iraq's
third largest city.


A leader from the Jubur tribe was shot dead by gunmen west of the
northern oil city of Kirkuk on Tuesday, police Captain Mahmud
Atta said.


In other violence, a car bomb exploded in the town of Hawijah,
west of Kirkuk, killing two and wounding another six, police
Brigadier General Fattah Abdullah Jassim said.


To the south of Kirkuk, gunmen killed a barber outside his shop.
Iraqi barbers are often targeted by extremists who believe the
shaving of beards is un- Islamic.


Two people were killed and seven others wounded when a slew of
mortar rounds slammed into the Abe Seda district of Muqdadiyah, a
town in Diyala province, north of Baghdad, police said.


In another attack in Muqdadiyah, four more were wounded in
similar mortar attack.


Police also found five bodies in the Diyala river, east of
Baghdad.

