

Workers at Skoda Auto, the Czech Republic's biggest car maker,
went on strike on Tuesday as part of a campaign for improved pay
and conditions, the Czech press agency CTK reported.


Workers gave the strike "almost total support" one union
official, Vladimir Kment, told the press on Tuesday morning.


But in spite of previous union predictions that all production
would be halted by the action, Kment said that "a few hundred"
cars would be produced at the Volkswagen Group company during the
day. Skoda Auto's average daily production is around 2,500
vehicles.


Talks on Monday failed to break the deadlock over a management
offer of 10-percent base salary increases and other bonuses
amounting to a rise of 13 percent over the period of April 2007
to April 2009.


Unions rejected this offer last week. After they announced their
intention to strike, management reduced the proposed 10-percent
raises to 7.5 percent.


Josef Stredula, head of Kovo, the main union at Skoda, said that
the two sides would meet again on Wednesday. Industrial action
would be suspended that day but could recommence Thursday if
there was no breakthrough in negotiations, Kment said.


Skoda management stoked union anger by threatening to move car
engine production currently carried out in the Czech Republic to
Volkswagen's Wolfsburg, Germany, headquarters, Stredula said on
Monday.


Based in Mlada Boleslav, about 55 kilometres (35 miles) northeast
of Prague, Skoda Auto employs some 26,000 people. Kovo says
around 18,000 are its members.


The company earned record net profits of 11.06 billion koruna
(392 million euros, 530 million dollars) last year, an increase
of 40 percent over the previous year.


It is the Czech Republic's largest exporter, responsible for 7.7
percent of total sales abroad last year and an estimated 2.0-3.0
percent of the country's Gross Domestic Product.


Last week, Czech President Vaclav Klaus called on company
managers not to "raise wages too much." "As an economist, I
cannot underestimate the signal that a pay deal at Skoda Auto
will have for the rest of the economy," he added.

