

East Timor Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta demanded Tuesday an
investigation into revelations government officials were given
access-all-area passes during this month's presidential election.


Ramos-Horta, a candidate in the election, said officials from his
office were among those who received the passes for restricted
areas while the poll was being conducted.


"The Prime Minister decided that this serious matter must be
investigated in order to find out on what grounds the passes to
the polling areas were issued and who requested them," a
statement from his office said.


The Nobel Peace laureate added that he and his chief of staff
were unaware his office had requested the passes, which are
against poll regulations.


The statement raises further fears about the credibility of the
April 9 poll, the first since the tiny nation gained independence
in 2002, amid concerns of voting irregularities and claims of
intimidation at polling stations.


Ramos-Horta and ruling Fretilin party candidate Fransisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres are set to contest a run-off vote in the election
next month. Neither of them gained more than 50 percent of the
vote on April 9.


The passes were revealed in local newspapers and also contained
in an election report from an EU monitoring team which said 88
had been issued, describing it as an "inappropriate practice."


The passes allowed the holders access to areas run by the
Technical Administrative Electoral Secretariat where vote
collecting and counting could have been taking place.


Ramos-Horta said an investigation was urgently needed to preserve
the integrity of the election and the credibility of those who
conducted it.


Although the election was peaceful with a high voter turnout,
some candidates have demanded a recount over the the
irregularities. One district with 100,000 eligible voters had
produced three times as many votes, a discrepancy that officials
later put down to a technical error.


Election officials also said Monday they were re-examining other
votes already counted amid concerns they were not filled in
properly.


Foreign peacekeepers and police were guarding polling booths on
election day. International troops have been in East Timor for
nearly a year to ensure stability after gang violence in May left
37 people dead and sent 150,000 more fleeing their homes.

