

The UN Security Council should be ready to impose tough sanctions
on Sudan if it rejects a UN package aimed at ending the violence
in Darfur, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday.


Blair made the comments while defending his interventionist
foreign policy, which has seen military action in Kosovo,
Afghanistan and Iraq in recent years.


"I believe what is happening in Darfur is a scandal that the
world must act to stop," Blair said. "It is clear that the only
thing that will make the Sudanese government understand its
responsibilities is pressure.


"And we must be prepared as a United Nations Security Council,
that if they do not agree to the UN package, to pass a strong
resolution with sanctions with respect to the Sudanese
government," Blair told a monthly press conference.


The United Nations on Monday hailed Khartoum's decision to allow
3,000 UN personnel to bolster African Union troops in Darfur but
urged quick action toward a larger deployment of joint AU-UN
peacekeepers.


Sudan however has so far refused to accept a large-scale UN troop
presence in Darfur.


At least 200,000 people have died in four years of ethnic strife
in Darfur and more than two million have been displaced,
according to UN figures which Khartoum disputes. Some sources say
the death toll is much higher.


Asked if Britain's troubled military occupation of Iraq made
intervention in Sudan harder, Blair replied: "I don't think it
does, unless you take the view that military intervention is an
easy thing to do. It isn't."


But he added that he had no doubt that "until we threaten tough
action against the Sudanese government... until we give them a
clear message that they have to stop what they are doing, then
they will carry on doing it.


"And I believe in an interventionist foreign policy," he added.


"The reality in today's world is that you can't opt out of these
conflicts, not if we want to gain any control over factors and
events that are going to affect your own country," Blair said.


If Britain wants to remain "capable of wielding real influence in
the world," he said, it had to remain an ally of the United
States and partner of Europe as well as to be "prepared to use
hard as well as soft power."


If Britain gives up either principle, "we will reduce
significantly our power and influence. I know that's not a very
popular thing to say in certain quarters, but I believe it to be
true."


In the decade he has been in power, Blair has sent British troops
to fight twice in Iraq as well as in Kosovo, Sierre Leone and
Afghanistan -- more times than any prime minister since the end
of World War II in 1945.

