

Iran on Tuesday said it was working "continuously" to ramp up its
nuclear programme at an ultra-sensitive facility, in defiance of
UN calls on Tehran to stop controversial atomic activities.


"We are employing the maximum effort to realise our projects in
Natanz. Today in Natanz there is a continuous movement to install
the centrifuges," the head of Iran's atomic energy agency Gholam
Reza Aghazadeh said.


Iran has said it ultimately wants to install 50,000 uranium
enriching centrifuges at the plant in Natanz, central Iran,
although its medium-term goal was to put in place 3,000 units.


Aghazadeh's comments to the ISNA agency come a week after Iran
announced that its work at Natanz to enrich uranium -- a process
the West fears could be used to make nuclear weapons -- had
reached an "industrial" scale.


However Aghazadeh once again refused to reveal how many
centrifuges Iran has installed at the plant, a reluctance that
has created uncertainty about how far progressed the Iranian
nuclear programme is.


"There is nothing unusual in announcing no figures," he said.
Iran has repeatedly dismissed statements from Western observers
casting doubt on its announcement of reaching industrial scale
enrichment.


He reaffirmed that Iran "would continue with the installation
until it has 50,000 centrifuges", saying that this process could
take between 2-4 years depending on the circumstances.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
on Iran over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, and the
Islamic republic faces further punitive measures if it does not
comply.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
action to bring Iran to heel should sanctions fail to work. Iran
insists that its nuclear programme is peaceful.


International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) chief Mohamed ElBaradei
said last week Iran had installed only "hundreds" of centrifuges
at Natanz, well short of its medium-term goal of 3,000.


More precise information could come from UN nuclear inspectors
who left Iran on Sunday evening after a regular visit, although
their findings are not expected to be released to the public
immediately.

