

Europe should operate a real exchange rate policy, the head of
France's MEDEF employers' organisation said Tuesday in response
to a question on the rise of the euro.


Her remarks add fuel to election controversy over the role of the
European Central Bank.


"It is quite clear than we do not have at the European level a
real exchange rate policy and we need one," Laurence Parisot told
the organisation's monthly news conference.


The euro has risen strongly against the yen and the dollar.


The rise of the euro tends to increase the price of exports on
foreign markets, and is held up by crisis-stricken aircraft maker
Airbus as one reason for a plan to slash 10,000 jobs.


Leading French policitians, campaigning for the first round of a
presidential election on Sunday, have criticised the independent
European Central Bank for increasing interest rates to contain
inflation, as required by its statutes, even at the risk of
attracting foreign funds into the euro and pushing it up higher.


With the exception of centrist UDF candidate Francois Bayrou who
says the ECB should be allowed to exercise its full independence,
other candidates have called in various ways for a political
counterweight to ensure that growth and foreign exchange rates
are given increased prominence.


However, some analysts note that the German economy is exporting
robustly despite the rise of the euro, saying that structural
problems in France should not be blamed on institutions in the
European Union.


In late morning trading on Tuesday, the European currency was
changing hands at 1.3544 dollars against 1.3535 at close of trade
the evening before. On Monday it had struck a new high point
since January 2005 at 1.3577 dollars.


Parisot blamed the failure to operate an exchange policy on
France's rejection in a 2005 referendum of the EU's
constitutional treaty and said candidates in the forthcoming
presidential election should discuss the European Union issue
more.


"But frankly, if we do not have one (an exchange policy) it is
perhaps because we voted 'No' in the referendum in the
constitutional treaty in 2005 and we were not capable of
advancing on the issue of governance," she said.


"The real question is why the candidates do not talk more about
the European question," she added.

