

Australia's embattled rugby chief Gary Flowers defended his
legacy Tuesday and said he was ready to stand aside before his
contract expires if a replacement is found.


Flowers announced last week that he would retire as Australian
Rugby Union (ARU) chief executive when his contract ends on
December 31, paving the way for a possible return of his
predecessor John O'Neill after the World Cup.


Flowers, who has been criticised for a lack of leadership and has
recently lost the support of the ARU board, has faced calls for
his immediate departure from pundits and former Wallabies coach
Eddie Jones.


He said he would happily stand aside if a replacement could be
found, saying any candidate needed to be "strong-minded and
pretty resilient" to deal with the political wrangling within
Australian rugby.


"I think the important thing now is that there be a smooth
transition in terms of the new CEO and that can happen as quickly
as it should," he told Sydney commercial radio.


"Because, at the end of the day, you're going to be pushed and
pulled in many directions."


Flowers also defended his record since taking over from O'Neill
in June 2004, saying he was now being blamed for all the game's
woes.


"I'm ready to hear about global warming and the ARU being
responsible for that at the moment," he joked.


Flowers cited the establishment of a national competition to act
as a feeder to Australia's four Super 14 teams as a major
achievement of his reign, saying it had previously been discussed
for a decade.


He also blamed Australia's "federated" system of independent
Super 14 provinces for the divisions in the game.


"We've now got four professional provinces. Each of the states in
many ways wants to pursue their own interests or push their own
interests," he said.


"From a governor's perspective, it would be great to think that
(when I'm gone) people would put self-interests to one side and
think about the game on a holistic basis.


"That may be a pipe-dream, but anyway."


O'Neill left to manage Australian football after complaining of
being driven out of rugby by internal politics.


He no longer holds a senior sporting position has not ruled out a
return to rugby.


Since O'Neill's departure, rugby union in Australia has been
wracked by internal divisions and the Wallabies have struggled to
make an impact on the field.


Australia lifted the World Cup in 1991 and 1999 and reached the
2003 final but expectations are low for this year's tournament
after just six wins from the last 20 matches played overseas.

