

Nigerian Vice President Atiku Abubakar will participate in this
weekend's presidential election, the national electoral
commission ruled Tuesday, reversing an earlier move to exclude
him.


"The Commission assures Nigerians that the VP will be on the
ballot," INEC spokesman Philip Umeadi told a press conference.


The April 21 vote is expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to -civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


Abubakar, who is running for the Action Congress (AC) party, is
one of two opposition candidates expected to pose a serious
challenge to the ruling party's Umaru Yar'Adua in Saturday's
poll.


The third heavyweight is former military ruler Muhamadu Buhari
who is contesting under the banner of the All Nigeria Peoples
Party (ANPP).


The electoral commission had excluded Abubakar from the list of
approved candidates following corruption allegations.


But Nigeria's Supreme Court ruled on Monday that a lower court of
appeal had erred when on April 3 it decided that the commission
could disqualify candidates.


Lawyers said that following the Supreme Court ruling Abubakar
should automatically be allowed to run.


But there had been some doubts as to whether INEC would have
either the political will or the logistical capacity to insert
the vice president's name on the ballots at such short notice.


"What we are doing at the moment is to ensure that the logistics
are in place", Umeadi said Tuesday.


The European Union (EU) observer mission monitoring the elections
on Monday said it had been urging INEC to insert Abubakar's name.


INEC's announcement on Abubakar comes as the commission is still
releasing results from the April 14 governorship elections.


From the results announced so far, the ruling People's Democratic
Party (PDP) has a clear lead in those polls.


The Supreme Court decision was a setback for outgoing President
Olusegun Obasanjo, who had vowed that Abubakar, 60, his deputy
since 1999, would not succeed him.


Obasanjo last August openly accused his deputy of corruption and
had him investigated. A government-backed panel of inquiry
indicted Abubakar of allegedly siphoning off money from a
petroleum fund he managed.


The INEC then barred him from standing, and Abubakar has since
been battling to get that decision overturned.


He has won in most of the dozen or so court cases in which he has
been a plaintiff or defendant.


Late last year, the ruling PDP expelled him and he defected to
the AC.

