

Muslims in London not only have almost twice as much confidence
in the government as the wider public, but greater faith in the
police, judicial and electoral system, a poll suggested Tuesday.


Pollsters Gallup also found that a greater proportion of Muslims
living in the British capital renounced violence than did the
general population, and a higher percentage felt a strong sense
of loyalty towards Britain.


Gallup are to release the full findings on Wednesday, but the
data already released suggest that media reports characterising
the Muslim community as radicalised, alienated and
disenfranchised may be wide of the mark.


These results suggest that Britain's 1.56 million-strong Muslim
community has a far more positive outlook.


The results form part of a global survey of attitudes in 40
Muslim countries.


It looked at how integrated Muslims were in countries such as
Britain, France and Germany and the extent they related to their
country, religion and ethnicity.


London is home to just over 607,000 Muslims -- or 8.5 percent of
the capital's population -- according to the 2001 Census. Forty
percent were born in Britain.


The survey found that:


-- 81 percent of London Muslims said violence was completely
unjustified, even if used in a "noble cause" compared to 72
percent of the general public.


-- 74 percent said they were loyal to Britain compared to 45
percent of non- Muslims.


-- 82 percent respected other religions, as opposed to 54 percent
of the wider public.


-- 78 percent versus 69 percent had confidence in the police; for
the government, judicial system and elections the figures were 64
percent vs 36 percent, 67 percent vs 55 percent and 73 percent vs
60 percent.


But despite apparently more relaxed attitudes, Muslims in the
capital were twice as likely than non-Muslims to say they had
experienced racial or religious discrimination in the last year.


And there were echoes of previous polls which suggested that
British foreign policy shapes Muslim attitudes: 59 percent said
the ouster of Saddam Hussein was unjustified, as opposed to 40
percent of the wider public.


Only 14 percent thought the invasion of Iraq was justified,
compared with 23 percent of non-Muslims.


:: Gallup interviewed 500 Muslims in London between November and
January and 1,200 members of the British public between December
and January.


Gallup said the attitudes of Muslims in London may not be
reflected in the rest of the country, The Times newspaper
reported.

