

The Taliban are waiting for Afghan authorities to contact them
over two French aid workers and eight Afghans they have kidnapped
over the past month, a militant spokesman said Tuesday.


The Islamists have been holding two French nationals and three of
their Afghan colleagues since seizing them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz on April 3. Five Afghan medics snatched late
March are also being held.


A videotape showing the French man and woman was shown on
Canadian television at the weekend. Paris says it has not
received any demands from the kidnappers.


"We're waiting for the government to contact us over the French
nationals and Afghan doctors," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi
told AFP by telephone from an unknown location.


"So far no one has contacted us about this," said Ahmadi, who
often calls the media to claim attacks on behalf of the
insurgents, including a blast that killed five UN workers in
Kandahar earlier Tuesday.


President Hamid Karzai's spokesman, Karim Rahimi, told a press
conference Tuesday that authorities were working "very seriously"
to secure the release of the hostages, adding that he could not
give details for security reasons.


French President Jacques Chirac called Karzai last week to demand
his support for efforts to free the French workers of Terre
d'Enfance (A World for Our Children).


The Afghan leader has said that the government will not make any
more hostage deals with the Taliban following the controversial
release of five rebels in exchange for a kidnapped Italian last
month.


An Afghan translator and driver who were seized with Italian
journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo in early March were both
beheaded after the government refused to negotiate for their
lives, eliciting howls of protest.


Afghan foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta said on Sunday that
kidnapping would become an "industry" for the rebels if more
deals were made.


Taliban insurgents on Tuesday kidnapped an Afghan policeman after
attacking his checkpost in Nimroz, the same province where the
French citizens were abducted, provincial governor Gulam Dastgir
Azad told AFP.


"There was an attack on a police post this morning. The Taliban
kidnapped and took away with them one of our policemen," the
governor said.


He said he had no fresh news on the French hostages.


The Taliban said it would kill one of the Afghan medical workers
if the government did not enter into negotiations by April 15 but
there has been no word on the man's fate since.

