

US spy satellites show North Korea may be preparing to shut down
a nuclear reactor days after the communist state missed an agreed
disarmament deadline, news reports said Tuesday.


US spy satellites on Monday spotted unusual movement of people
and vehicles around the cooling tower and parking lot at
Yongbyon, South Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said.


The US and South Korea believed it was likely the activities were
part of operations to close down the reactor, which provides
plutonium for nuclear weapons, it said.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service (NIS) confirmed to
AFP that "unusual movements" had been spotted around the reactor
but could not say what they might mean.


"We have been closely watching the development," a spokesman for
the spy agency said.


The reports raised hopes that Pyongyang may be preparing to take
the first step agreed to in a six-nation February pact, after an
April 14 deadline to close Yongbyon had lapsed due to a dispute
over millions of dollars frozen in a Macau bank.


The foreign ministry here said Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon and
US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had expressed a strong
desire to see North Korea taking the nuclear disarmament measures
under the February 13 agreement.


The ministers in a phone conversation agreed "to watch the
situation for a few more days," a ministry official said.


Song also talked by phone with Chinese counterpart Li Zhaoxing
and agreed to continue cooperation "for an early settlement" of
the dispute over the frozen funds, the official said.


The North insists it will begin shutting down and sealing
Yongbyon and readmit UN atomic inspectors once it has retrieved
25 million dollars in funds frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia
(BDA).


The United States, which orchestrated the freeze on suspicion of
money- laundering and counterfeiting, has said the funds were
freed for collection at BDA last week.


But there has been no word on when and how the transfer will be
made, although Rice and Song said that "the door for settling the
BDA problem remains open to North Korea."


That claim was disputed by fellow nuclear negotiator Russia,
whose Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov charged Monday
that Washington was "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso warned Tuesday there was a
possibility that disputes between the US, Macau and North Korea
would continue for a while.


"I wouldn't be surprised if the six-party talks started tomorrow
if the fund issue is resolved today, as all the problems are
about financial technicalities," Aso told reporters.


"But there is also a possibility that disputes between the United
States, China -- as Macau is in China -- and North Korea will
continue for a while, so I cannot tell you if the talks can
resume this month," he added.


The six-party talks group the two Koreas, host China, the US,
Russia and Japan. They have dragged on since 2003 but assumed
added urgency after the North tested a nuclear weapon last
October.


In February, Pyongyang agreed to disable its nuclear programmes
in exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid,
as well as security and diplomatic benefits.


Under the first phase, it was supposed to have sealed Yongbyon by
April 14. In tandem, the US undertook to try to settle the bank
row.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack rejected Russia's
criticism as inaccurate and said the US and fellow negotiators
were ready to give the North some days to act.


BDA meanwhile said it would challenge a US Treasury decision
which from this week will bar it from doing business with US
banks.


South Korea confirmed it would send a delegation to economic
talks with its neighbour in Pyongyang this week, according to an
official quoted by Yonhap news agency.


A major topic will be the North's request for 400,000 tons of
rice to alleviate chronic food shortages. News reports have said
Seoul may link its resumption of regular annual rice aid to
progress in denuclearisation.

