

Zimbabwe marks 27 years of independence on Wednesday amid an
economic meltdown and spiralling political tensions which have
turned the one-time African role model into a pariah in the West.


This year's celebrations in the former British colony of Rhodesia
are being held under the theme "Uniting Against Sanctions", a
pointed reference to the boycott imposed by the European Union
and United States against the regime of President Robert Mugabe
over claims that he rigged his re-election in 2002.


Mugabe, the 83-year-old strongman who has ruled since
independence, will lead the main commemorations at a football
stadium in Harare where the inaugural indepedence celebrations
were held.


Smaller gatherings will be held in other cities, but analysts say
with most people living below the poverty threshold and an on-
going crackdown against perceived enemies of the state,
independence day has lost its relevance.


Takura Zhangazha, a political analyst, said for many, celebrating
independence will be insignificant.


"Apart from the fact that it is a public holiday, independence
day is now insignificant," Zhangaza said.


"The majority of people are suffering and they have nothing to
celebrate. Maybe the political elite will celebrate, but
political celebrations are not going to solve anything."


The southern African country of 13 million people, once regarded
as the region's breadbasket, is now trying to cope with an
inflation rate of 1,730 percent and unemployment levels of 80
percent.


Political unrest which has accompanied the economic meltdown has
been met with a brutal crackdown against the opposition Movement
for Democratic Change.


Relations with the West hit a new low last month when MDC leader
Morgan Tsvangirai was arrested and then beaten in police custody
as he and fellow opposition activists tried to stage a protest
rally.


Mugabe responded to criticism of the police tactics by
threatening diplomats with expulsion and insisting that
Tsvangirai only had himself to blame.


It was a very different scenario 27 years ago when Mugabe won
widespread admiration with an offer of reconciliation to the
minority whites after they had handed over power at the end of a
civil war.


"In 1980 there was genuine jubilation, Mugabe was a role model
and the rest of the world respected us as a country. Now you even
feel ashamed to say you are from Zimbabwe," said the veteran
political commentator Bill Said.


"The independence euphoria is gone and unlike in the 1980s there
is no longer that keenness to want to attend the ceremony and
hear Mugabe's address. Nobody is interested in listening to him
attacking (British Prime Minister Tony) Blair and the West.


"The leaders are too absorbed in themselves and looking after
themselves while the majority is living in poverty. It's a real
tragedy that some people are even saying life was better under
(Rhodesian prime minister) Ian Smith's regime."


Government Chief Whip Rugare Gumbo said however that independence
day should be a source of pride despite the economic challenges
facing the country.


"We are now masters of our own destiny. It's a pity that some
people politicise independence day," he told AFP.


Gumbo added that unlike in the past, many people in the country
now have opportunities to do things which were initially reserved
for the minority whites.


"In the past blacks were not even allowed to walk within the city
centre."


In the last few weeks, state-run radio channels have been playing
liberation war songs while other stations have special programmes
on the independence celebrations.


But Arthur Mutambara, leader of the breakaway faction of the MDC,
argued that talk of freedom rang hollow.


"Instead, starvation, unemployment, deplorable working
conditions, unmitigated suffering and unprecedented hopelessness
now define our national psyche," he said in an opinion article.


"We live in an undeclared state of emergency where our basic
freedoms of assembly speech, movement and association are heavily
curtailed by repressive legislation."

