

The pound climbed above 2.0 dollars for the first time for 14
years on Tuesday after data showed British annual inflation
surged to a decade-high above 3.0 percent in March, dealers said.


The pound jumped to 2.0003 dollars, last seen in September 1992,
after news that British 12-month inflation had hit 3.1 percent
last month, the highest level since 1997 and in breach of a
government-set ceiling of 3.0 percent.


Bank of England governor Mervyn King said that inflation had
moved above target owing partly to increased crude oil prices.


Analysts said the prospect of higher British interest rates, to
bring inflation under control, had propelled the pound past the
psychological 2.0-dollar barrier.


"This is a thoroughly nasty set of data that essentially
guarantees that the Bank of England will raise interest rates by
a further 25 basis points to 5.50 percent in May," Global Insight
economist Howard Archer said.


Britain's Office for National Statistics revealed that inflation
had hit 3.1 percent last month, underscored by large price
increases for transport, food, non-alcoholic beverages and
furniture.


The reading significantly overshot analysts' consensus forecasts
of 2.8 percent and compared with February's figure of 2.8
percent.


In reaction, King was compelled to write a letter to British
finance minister Gordon Brown, explaining why he has failed to
keep 12-month inflation within target.


"Since February, sterling oil prices have risen by around 25
percent, reversing part of the fall in prices seen in the second
half of last year," King wrote in the letter which was sent on
Monday but published on Tuesday.


"Higher petrol prices contributed significantly to this pick up
of inflation in March.


"Some of the falls in food prices a year ago, especially of milk,
were not repeated in March this year," he said, adding that the
central bank was "determined" to bring inflation back to the 2.0
percent target.


Brown wrote in response that he "continued to support the MPC in
the forward- looking decisions it takes in the future."


The BoE's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has hiked
rates three times since last August, most recently with a
surprise hike in January, as it fights rising inflation which had
surged to 3.0 percent last December.


Earlier this month, the central bank froze its key interest rate
at 5.25 percent for the third month in a row earlier this month
as it opted for a wait-and-see stance on the economy.


"The inflation numbers we have seen so far - for housing,
producer and consumer prices - are all pushing higher so this has
got to be enough reason for the bank to tighten rates in May,"
Deutsche Bank analyst George Buckley said on Tuesday.


British borrowing costs remain at the same level as US interest
rates, while in the eurozone they stand at 3.75 percent. Japan's
key rate is 0.50 percent.


The Bank of England was granted independence to set British
interest rates in 1997, after Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour
government swept to power almost 10 years ago.


The pound jumped on Tuesday to a peak last seen on September 9,
1992, when the unit was in the Exchange Rate Mechanism -- a
system which helped countries eventually to join the European
single currency.


Britain pulled sterling out of the ERM on September 16, 1992 amid
a run on the currency, causing a crisis for the then Conservative
government under John Major.

