

Upbeat after a top-10 finish at the Masters, Englishman Paul
Casey declared Tuesday his intention to attack in an effort to
blast past the best from Europe and Asia at this week's BMW Open.


"I feel fresh, I feel ready after playing the Masters a couple of
weeks ago and if I continue the good golf I played there I should
be in for a good week," the world number 12 said as he prepared
to tee off in a pre-tournament pro-am.


Casey said he was ready for the narrow Tomson Pudong Golf Club
layout, with its many fairway bunkers and dangerous waterways.


"It is a tight driving course but you have to take your bit
between your teeth and go for it.... I think you have to attack
it. It will be soft with the rain and guys will go for the pins,"
he said, referring to the forecast damp weather.


Casey, who finished an agonisingly close second in the 2006
European Order of Merit behind Irishman Padraig Harrington, is
currently sitting third in this year's race, and said one of his
main goals this season was to go one better.


Retief Goosen, currently second in the European Order of Merit,
is also in Shanghai this week and Casey said he was relishing the
challenge of trying to make up some ground on the smooth-swinging
South African.


"It would be nice to keep an eye on him and beat him and catch
him," Casey said.


Goosen, the world number eight, is also in a rich vein of form
after finishing equal runner-up at the year's first major
alongside Tiger Woods and Rory Sabbatini, two shots behind shock
winner Zach Johnson.


The famously easygoing Goosen rejected any assertion that coming
so close at the Masters but missing out would create any negative
vibes in his first tournament back.


"It was a positive thing (finishing runner-up)," he said. "It was
negative after the first two rounds but I played well at the
weekend and sort of got my game going, which gives me a boost for
the events coming up."


Also joining him at the 2.3-million-dollar BMW Asian Open
starting Thursday is fellow South African Ernie Els, who was due
to arrive in Shanghai after his stunning loss at the US PGA
Verizon Heritage tournament on Monday.


The world number five finished runner-up in South Carolina to Boo
Weekley after the unheralded American dropped par chip-ins on the
last two holes of a wind- marred final round.


Young Spaniard Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano is back to defend his
BMW crown after his play-off win over Sweden's Henrik Stenson
last year, while 2004 champion Miguel Angel Jimenez and Scot
Colin Montgomerie are also in Shanghai.


All the players in the top 10 of the Asian tour's standings are
also competing this week, with Chinese hopes resting on veteran
Zhang Lianwei and 2007 Singapore Masters champion Liang Wenchong.


Among the other notable Asian names in Shanghai are Thailand's
Thongchai Jaidee and Thaworn Wiratchant, as well as India's Shiv
Kapur.

