

Ukraine's President Viktor Yushchenko pledged Tuesday to find a
democratic solution to his country's political crisis and ruled
out the use of force to resolve it.


"We are determined to find a democratic resolution to the
parliamentary crisis in Ukraine," he told reporters in Brussels,
after talks with European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.


"We've never been saying and never (been) crudely speaking about
any option with using force to resolve the situation," he said.


As he spoke, Ukraine's highest court was stepping into the crisis
pitting the president against his prime minister in a power
struggle over new elections.


The constitutional court is to deliberate Yushchenko's decision
two weeks ago to dissolve parliament, which Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych claims is illegal.


Yushchenko said there was no military presence in Kiev, and he
addressed himself "to those who are trying to bring in people
from the regions," asking them not to do so.


He accused the pro-government coalition in parliament of
"political corruption" by wooing MPs from other factions to its
side.


"The problem is that in forming the coalition in parliament they
applied unconstitutional mechanisms," he said. This had led to an
effective overturning of last year's elections and "the
usurpation of power".


Barroso said that he was encouraged to hear Yushchenko rule out a
military solution to the crisis.


"There is a serious political crisis, let's face the facts," he
told a joint press conference with the Ukrainian leader.


"President Yushchenko explicitly informed me that all the efforts
now are clearly at the political level," he said.


"We hope that this political crisis is solved according to the
rules of democracy," he added.


Yushchenko has pushed hard for full integration with the West
since gaining power in 2005, including membership in the NATO
military alliance. Yanukovych has instead favoured traditional
ties with Moscow.


The EU has been Ukraine's biggest financial supporter since it
achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.


Last month the EU's executive arm announced that it would almost
double its financial aid to Ukraine over the next four years to
help Kiev undertake EU- oriented reform.


The aid will climb to 123 million euros (162 million dollars) a
year in the 2007-2010 period compared to 70 million euros
annually from 2004-2006 and is aimed at supporting reforms.

