

Aid agencies warned on Tuesday that some eight million Iraqis
urgently need relief aid while neighbouring Jordan and Syria have
reached their limits by taking in some two million Iraqi
refugees.


UN humanitarian chief John Holmes told a conference on Iraq's
displacement crisis that "up to eight million Iraqi civilians are
in urgent need of humanitarian relief, that is around four
million more than those who are internally or externally
displaced."


Holmes underlined that ordinary Iraqis were facing "a basic
survival crisis" inside the country because of recent sectarian
violence as well as years of neglect, sanctions and war that had
undermined Iraq's infrastructure.


"Iraq is not just a deeply controversial political and security
issue, but a profound and no doubt lasting humanitarian crisis
affecting millions of civilians," Holmes told the meeting.


The UN Under Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs said
those needs would last as long as violence and sectarian attacks
continue in Iraq.


The Red Cross appealed for 18.2 million Swiss francs (15 million
dollars, 11.1 million euros) in funding to provide 100,000 Iraqi
refugee families in Jordan and Syria with health care and
domestic supplies.


"The governments and people of Syria and Jordan have been
generous in the assistance extended to displaced Iraqis," said
Ahmed Gizo of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red
Crescent Societies.


"But the capacities and staff of many infrastructures, such as
hospitals, clinics and schools, have now reached their limits,"
added the Federation's Middle East chief.


Jordan and Syria host the bulk of the Iraqi refugees each with
750,000 and 1.2 million respectively, while some 1.9 million
people are displaced inside Iraq according to the UN refugee
agency.


The UNHCR called the two-day conference of government and aid
officials in Geneva to examine the plight of some four million
Iraqi refugees and displaced people, including some 800,000 who
have fled their homes since February 2006.


UN High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres warned that
the humanitarian crisis has largely been ignored by the
international community.


"If this massive displacement has gone largely unnoticed, it is
in part because most of those fleeing are not going to highly
visible camps, but are being absorbed by host communities in Iraq
and neighbouring states," Guterres said.


He told the meeting that the impact of the Iraqi arrivals on the
Syria and Jordan was "overhwelming" and called for more financial
and technical support from the international community.


Holmes called for a renewed drive to set up international relief
stocks in Iraq, setting the priority on overcoming "huge"
security obstacles.

