

British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Tuesday expressed his shock
at the "terrible loss of innocent lives" after a gunman shot dead
more than 30 people at a US university.


But he refused to be drawn into debate over US gun laws, saying
they were a matter for US authorities.


The gunman -- identified Tuesday as a student of Asian origin --
killed 32 people on Monday before turning his weapon on himself
in the deadliest shooting rampage in modern US history.


"Like everyone, I am deeply shocked at the terrible loss of
innocent lives at Virginia Tech University," Blair said.


"I would like to express, on behalf of Britain and the British
people, our profound sadness at what has happened and to send the
American people and most especially, of course, the families of
the victims, our sympathy and our prayers."


Blair opened his monthly press conference at his Downing Street
office with the comments.


Asked whether US President George W. Bush should now introduce
tougher gun controls, he said: "It would be completely
inappropriate for me to make more general comments about gun laws
in respect of America.


"That's a situation for America, for the American authorities,
for the American people."


Britain has a minimum five-year sentence for possession of an
illegal firearm. Handguns can no longer be bought or sold
legally.


Gun crime is a hot topic in Britain after three teenagers were
shot dead in south London during a two-week spate of shootings
earlier this year.


Queen Elizabeth II was "shocked" and "saddened" to hear the news
and was being kept informed, a Buckingham Palace spokeswoman said
Monday.


Along with her husband Prince Philip, the queen is set to pay a
two-day visit to Virginia on May 3 and 4 to commemorate the 400th
anniversary of the Jamestown Settlement. The visit to the United
States, which will run to May 8, will be her first in 16 years.


In New York, British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett opened a
speech to business leaders by saying "how horrified we are by the
shooting... and how our hearts go out to those affected."

