

Coca-Cola Co. on Tuesday reported first quarter profits rose 14
percent to 1.26 billion dollars as weak sales in the US were
offset by big increases in China, Russia and other emerging
markets.


The profit amounted to 56 cents a share excluding one-time costs,
topping the average Wall Street estimate of 53 cents.


Overall revenues for the January-March quarter rose 17 percent
from a year ago to 6.1 billion dollars.


Coca-Cola said the first-quarter earnings included a net charge
primarily related to an asset write-off at its Philippines
bottler, which was partially offset by gains on the sales of its
stake in the Brazilian bottler and real estate in Spain.


The results were driven by worldwide case volume growth of six
percent, the highest since 2002.


The world's largest beverage maker said international unit case
volumes rose nine percent, boosted by growth of seven percent in
trademark Coca-Cola.


Coca-Cola said most of its top 22 markets delivered "solid"
growth.


Latin America continued to deliver "strong" growth across the
region. Key emerging markets, including China, Russia, South
Africa, Nigeria, Eastern Europe and southern Eurasia all
increased at double-digit rates, the company said.


"This is a strong quarter and a strong start to 2007," chairman
and chief executive Neville Isdell said. "You can track our
progress bottle by bottle around the globe. We grew both
sparkling and still beverages while efficiently allocating our
resources."


But North American sales volumes fell three percent, linked to
slumping sales of carbonated beverages in the US market.


President and chief operating officer Muhtar Kent said that while
international sales offset the volume decline in North America,
"We know what we need to do in North America and are carefully
addressing the issues. It will take some time to achieve the
results we desire in this key market, but we expect sequential
improvement as we move into the second half of the year."


The Atlanta, Georgia-based firm has been moving into other
products such as bottled water and energy drinks to respond to
shifts in consumer preferences, especially in the US market.

