

One of Taiwan's leading opposition politicians on Tuesday said he
was not guilty of corruption charges in a case that could shape
the 2008 presidential race.


Ma Ying-jeou, former chairman of the leading opposition
Kuomintang (KMT) party, was cheered by dozens of supporters and
KMT legislators on arrival at Taipei District Court.


"I have faith in my innocence," Ma told reporters.


The 56-year-old, indicted in February for allegedly misusing more
than 11 million Taiwan dollars (333,330 US) in expense accounts
during his time as Taipei mayor from 1998 to 2006, again denied
any wrongdoing.


Ma also cried foul over what he said was unfair questioning by
prosecutors during the investigation.


"Many of the evidences favorable to me were totally ignored by
the prosecutors. It's a humiliation to my integrity," he said.


The next hearing was scheduled for May 8.


Ma resigned as KMT chairman after the indictment but immediately
announced he was running for president in 2008, a move that
unexpectedly boosted his popularity.


If convicted, he faces a minimum of seven years in prison but
prosecutors have asked the judges for leniency on the grounds
that Ma has donated some 15 million dollars to charity during the
investigation.


Last year Ma admitted that one of his aides had swapped receipts
in claiming his mayoral expenses for 2003-2006.


He has apologised for the "serious administrative flaws" but
denied prior knowledge of the aide's actions or any attempt at
embezzlement.


He has also said he would try to stay in the presidential race
even if he is found guilty by filing an appeal, a process that
would be unlikely to be finished before the March 2008 election.


Despite the charges, opinion polls suggest Ma is the front-runner
for the race ahead of the declared ruling party candidates.


Ma was elected KMT chairman in July 2005 and oversaw the party's
landslide victory in local government chief elections five months
later.


After losing his job as justice minister in 1996 for waging a
battle against corruption which impressed the public but proved
unpopular with politicians, Ma was elected Taipei mayor in 1998
and won re-election in 2002.


His second and final term ended in December.

