

Six-nation talks aimed at denuclearising North Korea could resume
within a day once a row over Pyongyang's frozen funds is fully
resolved, Japan's foreign minster said Tuesday.


North Korea has refused to shut down its Yongbyon reactor, as
agreed under a six-nation deal in February, until it receives 25
million dollars from a bank account in Macau.


"I wouldn't be surprised if the six-party talks started tomorrow,
if the fund issue is resolved today, as all the problems are
about financial technicalities," Japanese Foreign Minister Taro
Aso told reporters.


"But there is also a possibility that disputes between the United
States, China -- as Macau is in China -- and North Korea will
continue for a while," he said.


"I can't tell you if the talks can resume this month, but the
possibility is not zero for an immediate resumption once the
decision is made," Aso said.


The United States said it has found a way for North Korea to
access the money, which had been frozen because of allegations of
money laundering and counterfeiting.


North Korea, which tested an atom bomb last year, missed the
deadline Saturday to start shutting its reactor and to readmit UN
nuclear inspectors.


But South Korea's intelligence service said Tuesday that "unusual
movements" were seen at the Yongbyon site in what media reports
said could be a sign it was preparing to shut down the reactor.


"We would be well advised to assume that (North Korea) wants us
to believe" the reported movements show a willingness to shut
down the reactor, Aso said.


"The matter is not that simple," he added.


He said the financial row was "unrelated to the six-way framework
but is a bilateral issue between the US and North Korea."


"The United States has done its part. You know how North Korea
has dealt with it over this technical issue. The rest of four
nations are feeling it is not right that the core issue of six-
way talks does not move forward," Aso said.


The six-way talks involve China, Japan, the two Koreas, Russia
and the US.

