

The gunman who killed at least 30 people on a Virginia campus was
a student of Asian origin and may have acted with a second
suspect, the university's president said Tuesday.


ABC news reported that the shooter who rampaged through a
classroom building was a Korean national, Seung Hui Cho.


Virginia Tech University Charles Steger told ABC earlier only
that the shooter was an Asian male and he "was a resident in our
dormitory ... it appears he was an on-campus resident."


Asked if he meant that there were two people involved in the
killings which occurred in two locations almost three hours
apart, he said: "That's what we're trying to confirm ... The
possibility exists."


Two bouts of shootings rocked the university in the town of
Blacksburg early Monday morning. Two people were shot dead in a
dormitory before a shooter rampaged through a classroom building
hours later, killing a further 30 and turning the gun on himself.


CNN news citing a source close to the investigation said a
.22-caliber handgun and a nine-millimeter handgun were recovered
at the scene. Media cited federal police officials as saying that
both weapons had their serial numbers obliterated.


The Chicago Sun Times daily cited an unnamed official source as
saying that authorities were investigating whether he was a
Chinese man who came to the United States in August 2006 on a
student visa issued in Shanghai.


Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao in Beijing said
China could not confirm the report.


Student Erin Sheehan, who survived after the gunman barged into
her German class and fired repeatedly, told CNN the attacker was
of Asian appearance, wearing a short-sleeved tan shirt and black
ammunition vest.


He was dressed "almost like a Boy Scout," she said. "He was very
silent" as he carried out the attack.


"He seemed very thorough about it, getting almost everyone down.
I was trying to act dead," she said. "He left for about 30
seconds, came back in, did almost exactly the same thing."


Local television in this town 425 kilometers (264 miles)
southwest of Washington said foreign exchange students had been
among the dead and this caused a delay in the release of details
while relatives were notified.


The university lists around 2,000 international students from
more than 110 countries, including some 1,800 students of Asian
origin in the current academic year.


The South Korean Yonhap news agency said a South Korean student
was among those hospitalized. There are some 460 students from
Korea studying at Virginia Tech, it said.


China's Xinhua agency said there were up to 500 Chinese students
at the university. The Japanese embassy in Washington said all 17
Japanese nationals thought to be members of the university were
safe, Kyodo news agency reported.

