

The high-speed Eurostar trains linking London with Paris and
Brussels will be carbon neutral from November, the company said
Tuesday, claiming a world first.


Train operator Eurostar also said it would reduce its carbon
dioxide emissions by 25 percent per traveller journey by 2012 as
part of its bid to go green.


Eurostar, whose trains whizz beneath the English Channel, said it
would become "the world's first rail service, and the world's
largest mass transport operator, to go carbon neutral" when it
starts faster journeys from the new London terminal at Saint
Pancras station on November 14.


It plans to cut its carbon dioxide emissions by reducing the
power consumption on its rolling stock, filling empty seats on
each train and sourcing more electricity from lower-emission
generators.


The company is to invest in projects intended to compensate for
its carbon dioxide emissions, without passing on the cost to
travellers.


"The public is more and more worried about the environment and
every company should take some responsibility," Eurostar
president Guillaume Pepy told AFP.


"Eurostar's initiative takes place at a time when people are
becoming more aware of global warming, notably in Britain where
the pressure is strong."


New controls will be put on lighting, heating and air
conditioning. The amount of paper used will be reduced via
electronic tickets and food, uniforms and even the water used to
wash the trains will be recycled.


The food on board will be sourced in Britain, France or Belgium.


"We don't have all the answers but we do know that a high-speed
rail journey is 10 times greener than flying and that Eurostar
can be greener still," said Eurostar chief executive Richard
Brown.


"It is time for the transport industry to do more to tackle
climate change, instead of claiming that it makes a minimal
contribution to global warming, or simply blaming other industry
sectors."


Tony Juniper, the executive director of environmental campaigners
Friends of the Earth, said: "It's great news that Eurostar is
leading the way in the travel industry with its initiative to cut
passengers' carbon emissions by actually making a real reduction
rather than just offsetting."


Meanwhile Eurostar said that passenger numbers were up by 5.4
percent to 1.79 million in the first third of the year compared
with the same period in 2006.


Revenues were up by 13.2 percent to 142 million pounds (284
million dollars, 210 million euros) over the same period.

