

China Tuesday sentenced the son of exiled Uighur nationalist and
Nobel Peace Prize nominee Rebiya Kadeer to nine years in prison
for secessionist activities, court officials and state press
said.


Ablikim Abdiriyim was sentenced by an intermediate court in
Urumqi, the capital of western-most Xinjiang region, Xinhua news
agency reported.


"Ablikim Abdiriyim was found to have spread secessionist articles
over the Internet, instigated the public against the government
and written articles distorting China's human rights and ethnic
policies," Xinhua said, citing court documents.


"He is the son of Rebiya," a woman official at the Urumqi
intermediate court confirmed to AFP by phone, refusing further
comment.


Rebiya Kadeer is the symbol of struggle for greater rights for
the 10 million Uighurs, the largest and overwhelmingly Muslim
ethnic group in the Xinjiang region.


She was imprisoned for six years after being accused by Beijing
of leaking "state secrets" to a US congressional delegation
visiting the region in the 1990s.


She was released in March 2005 and allowed to go into exile in
the United States, from where she continues to speak up for her
people. China has continued to express anger over her comments
while in exile.


Kadeer, a millionaire businesswoman before her arrest, was among
nominees for the Nobel Peace Prize last year won by Bangladesh
economist Muhammad Yunus.


According to the London-based Amnesty International, two other
sons of Kadeer were fined or jailed for alleged tax evasion in
October last year.


Kahar Abdureyim and Alim Abdureyim were sentenced to pay fines
totalling millions of US dollars, and Alim was also sentenced to
seven years in jail.


The two were not allowed to defend themselves in the closed-door
trial in Urumqi, their sister Akida Abdureyim told AFP late last
year, quoting relatives who spoke to her from the region.


In addition, another daughter of Kadeer, Rouxian Gul Kadeer, had
been under house arrest, but was released late last year,
according to Amnesty.


China has increasingly stepped up pressure on Uighur Muslims in
Xinjiang since Beijing joined Washington's global war on terror,
following the September 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.


Many Uighurs hope to reestablish an independent East Turkestan
that existed briefly in the region in the 1940s, before communist
China "peacefully liberated" Xinjiang in the early 1950s.

