

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates, at the start of a Middle East
tour, and Jordan's King Abdullah II held talks on Tuesday focused
on the Arab-Israeli peace process, the palace said.


Gates, on a tour aimed at rallying support for Iraq's government
and countering Iran's growing influence in the Middle East, was
to travel on to Egypt and Israel.


King Abdullah "stressed to the defence secretary the importance
of advancing peace in the region in accordance with a two-state
solution to the Palestinian- Israeli conflict," the palace said
in a statement.


He said the Israeli-Palestinian conflict "remains the core
conflict in the region and that international and regional actors
should make the establishment of an independent Palestinian state
a priority in order to realise regional peace and stability".


The king called for support of the Saudi-inspired Arab peace
initiative.


An Arab summit held in Riyadh last month offered Israel peace and
normal ties with Arab countries in exchange for withdrawing from
Arab land occupied during the 1967 Six Day War, the creation of a
Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


The foreign ministers of Jordan and Israel met in Amman on Sunday
for talks on ways to push forward the Israeli-Palestinian peace
process.


They also discussed ways to restart peace talks, following a
meeting earlier the same day in Jerusalem between Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


King Abdullah and Gates also "reviewed the situation in Iraq and
the efforts exerted to foster security and end the cycle of
violence", the palace said.


"King Abdullah expressed his conviction that the inclusion of all
Iraqis in the political process was the only guarantee of a
better future for the country."


Their talks likewise covered defence, but the palace made no
mention of Iran.


A senior US military official in Gates's delegation said
Washington wanted its Arab allies Jordan and Egypt to show more
public support for the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki.


The United States is also seeking greater Arab public opposition
to Iran's controversial nuclear programme and to Iranian support
for the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon.


Washington has accused Iran of fomenting sectarian violence in
Iraq and supporting anti-US insurgents in the country, charges
denied by Tehran.

