

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday rejected
suggestions that the country's secular order was under threat and
vowed not to let upcoming presidential elections become a source
of instability.


His remarks came amid mounting speculation over whether Erdogan,
a conservative with an Islamist political past, will run for the
presidency, a development that would outrage the country's
secularists.


"Turkey is a democratic, secular, social state based on the rule
of law," Erdogan told deputies of his Islamist-rooted Justice and
Development Party (AKP).


"None of these tenets is more important than the other; they are
also complementary," he added.


"No individual or group should try to benefit by creating tension
out of these principles," he said.


"The biggest threat to democracy comes from those who constantly
keep the regime and its principles on the agenda for the sake of
political gain."


The AKP government is "obliged to protect Turkey's constitutional
order and is determined to do so," Erdogan said.


Last week, outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer warned that
Turkey's secular system was under "unprecedented threat".


He was speaking a day after armed forces chief General Yasar
Buyukanit said the future president should be secular "not only
in words, but in essence".


An estimated 500,000 people took to the streets for a peaceful
demonstration at the weekend to discourage Erdogan from running
for the presidency. The event was organised by a militant
secularist association.


Erdogan, who described the estimated number of participants as
exaggerated, said he would not allow the presidential election to
be a source of instability.


He urged respect for the decision of parliament, which elects the
president for a single seven-year term.


"You may not want to see me at Cankaya (the presidential palace),
that is your right," he said. "It is parliament that will choose
the president, and it will do so just the way it has the past 10
times.


"We will elect the 11th president not to create crises but to
sustain stability, growth, development, welfare, peace and
justice," he said.


Turkey's presidency, although largely symbolic, embodies the
secular nature of this mainly Muslim country. Many fear the
strict separation of state and religion would be eroded if a
former Islamist got the job.


Erdogan began his political career in a now-defunct Islamist
party banned for undermining secularism and was jailed in 1999
for religious sedition.


He now describes himself as a conservative democrat, but
secularists suspect he still has a secret Islamist agenda.


He has not so far said whether he will run, nor has he named any
other candidate.


"There is no concrete name yet," he said, adding that he was
still consulting party members, opposition politicians and civic
bodies on the issue.


If Erdogan chooses to run, he should be easily elected thanks to
the AKP's strong majority in parliament, where it holds 353 of
the 550 seats.


The 10-day period for nominations began Monday, but no candidate
has yet come forward.


The mandate of Sezer, formerly Turkey's top magistrate as head of
the Constitutional Court and a staunch secularist, ends on May
16.


Parliament has yet to set a detailed timetable for the
presidential elections, which can go to up to four rounds.


The first round is expected on April 26 or May 3.

