

Former Polish president, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, was
formally charged Tuesday with "communist crimes" for declaring
martial law in 1981 in a crackdown on the Solidarity trade union.


"Our aim is to fulfill an obligation to the nation and the Polish
state, as well as to all those who suffered injustice and
humiliation during the period of martial law," said Andrzej
Drogon, an official at the National Remembrance Institution
(IPN), set up in 1998.


The IPN's main focus has been investigating crimes committed
before 1989 by the former communist regime in Poland.


Jaruzelski, now 83, faces up to 10 years in jail if he is found
guilty of "having led an armed organisation of a criminal
character" -- the charge originally brought against him last year
by the IPN and formally filed with a court in Warsaw on Tuesday.


Eight other high-ranking officials in the communist-era
government led by Jaruzelski from 1981 to 1989, including the
former boss of the Polish United Workers' Party, Stanislaw Kania,
face similar charges.


In December 1981 Jaruzelski declared martial law in a bid to
stamp out a challenge to the communist regime from the Solidarity
trade union, led by Lech Walesa.


Thousands of arrests followed and dozens of people were killed in
clashes.


Jaruzelski argued that he took the step to avoid the bloodbath
that would have followed the collapse of communism in Poland,
amid fears of Soviet military intervention.


Jaruzelski is already involved in another long-running court
case, in which he is accused of the bloody crushing of a workers'
uprising on Poland's industrial Baltic coast in 1970, when he was
defence minister.


In February, President Lech Kaczynski -- an ardent anti-communist
and former Solidarity activist -- said he intended to demote
Jaruzelski from general to simple private for his role in
imposing martial law on December 13, 1981.


The IPN was set up in December 1998 to investigate and prosecute
crimes committed in Poland by the Nazi and communist regimes.

