

Algerians held a series of nationwide rallies Tuesday to condemn
Al-Qaeda suicide attacks that killed 30 people and raised fears
of a return to the country's violent past.


Thousands of people gathered in the capital's olympic stadium
with banners reading "the fight against terrorism continues" and
"yes to national reconcilliation" six days after the capital was
rocked by three suicide blasts.


Images of other rallies around the country were also broadcast
live on television. They showed hundreds of veiled women at the
head of the marches carrying Algeria's flag and pictures of
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.


Bouteflika is the architect of the country's national
reconcilliation programme that largely brought an end to the
years of bloodshed during the 1990s, when Islamist guerrillas
fought the military.


It offered amnesties to those who left the various Islamic
militia that had battled Algeria's armed forces in a conflict
leaving tens of thousands dead.


Last Wednesday's attacks were claimed by an Algerian Islamist
militant movement that took the name of Al-Qaeda's North African
branch.


The violence has reignited a debate over Bouteflika's policy that
the national protests are intended to extinguish.


Meanwhile, in comments reported on Tuesday, Algerian Interior
Minister Noureddine Zerhouni said that one of the three suicide
bombs might have been set off remotely.


Zerhouni said that evidence of the remote control device had been
discovered in one of the three cars used in the explosions which
targeted the prime minister's office in Algiers and two other
locations in the capital.


"With this discovery, one plausible hypothesis is that the bombs
were not detonated by the terrorist car drivers but by someone
else not far from the disaster," Zerhouni said in comments
reported in Tuesday's press.


The minister did not say in which vehicle evidence of the device
was found.


More than 220 people were also injured in the blasts, according
to the latest official toll.


Zerhouni was quoted in the Jour d'Algerie daily as saying that so
far investigations had shown the vehicles used in the explosions
had come from abroad and that the perpetrators had been
"manipulated".


However, an interior ministry statement released on Tuesday said
that all three cars were registered in Algeria and that all three
suicide bombers were Algerian.


"These desperate terrorists resorted to suicide attacks for
spectacular effect to prove that they're still around," Zehouni
said. "Terrorism is weakening because sowing death like they did
last week shows that they are desperate."


Police also revealed on Tuesday a mobile phone text alerte system
which Algerians can use to report anything suspicious.


"Dear citizen, our brothers suffer from the remnants of a
terrorist (group) which is on the run. You must call to warn of
any threat. Call 1590 free," the text message to all Algeria's
mobiles said.

