

Asian stocks closed mostly higher on Tuesday but with investors
consolidating on recent sharp gains and ahead of the release of
key inflation data due out of the US later in the day.


The data will offer a much needed insight into the state of the
US economy and provide some clues on interest rate directions for
the world's largest economy and the region's biggest destination
for exports.


Gains on Wall Street overnight had provided a lift in early trade
with many benchmarks hitting record highs during intraday trade,
before profit taking emerged in the afternoon session and limited
the upside.


This resulted in Tokyo falling 0.57 percent, Taipei shed 1.05
percent, Sydney was down 0.18 percent and Seoul eased 0.22
percent. Singapore closed flat.


However, Shanghai again notched-up a record close with a gain of
0.43 percent, as did Kuala Lumpur after rising 0.56 percent.


Manila tracked Wall Street and rose 1.54 percent while Hong Kong
and Wellington were both up 0.15 percent, Mumbai was 0.65 percent
higher and Bangkok climbed 0.37 percent.


TOKYO: Share prices were hit by profit-taking despite Wall
Street's strong performance overnight as investors turned
cautious ahead of upcoming company results.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 100.85 points to 17,527.45. Volume rose
to 1.95 billion shares from 1.80 billion on Monday.


Many investors took to the sidelines ahead of the domestic
corporate results season which kicks off next week, with Wall
Street's gains Monday and the yen's continued weakness failing to
lift the market mood, dealers said.


"Recent macroeconomic data showing signs of slowing growth have
dampened investor appetite for stocks," said Masatoshi Sato, a
strategist at Mizuho Investor Securities.


"Given such discouraging data, investors have shifted their
focus... to the upcoming earnings announcements," he added.


Starting next week, Japanese companies will be reporting their
earnings results for the fiscal year to March, with the market
keen to see what their corporate earnings projections will be for
the current fiscal year.


Recent gainers were among those which saw the biggest falls, with
pharmaceuticals and utilities especially hard hit by profit
taking.


Daiichi Sankyo closed down 30 yen at 3,730.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed firmer after a see-saw trading
session as gains in heavyweights HSBC and China Mobile offset
profit-taking pressure after Monday's strong gains.


Dealers said trading was cautious ahead of key economic data in
the US, including March consumer inflation and new residential
construction figures.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 31.08 points at 20,788.61. Turnover
was 63.21 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.1 billion US).


"Follow-through interest in HSBC and China Mobile helped offset
falls in other counters amid consolidation in the broader
market," said Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung Tai
Securities, noting that "profit-taking capped the upside for many
stocks."


"I believe the focus still is on China-related counters. The
strong performance of the mainland markets amid hopes over yuan
appreciation is providing continued support to China Mobile and
other H shares," he said.


China Mobile added 0.50 to 75.70, after surging 5.7 percent
Monday on expectations that it will report strong subscriber
numbers for March.


HSBC was up 0.50 at 143.40 after news that Singularis Holdings,
an investment firm controlled by Saudi investor Maan Abdulwahed
Al-Sanea, has built up a 3.1 percent stake in the global banking
giant.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.22 percent lower, with investors
turning cautious ahead of the release of China's economic data
and earnings reports by key US IT companies.


Dealers said the market opened firmer on Wall Street's overnight
advance and hit an all-time high but then lost ground on
institutional profit-taking.


The KOSPI index closed down 3.38 points at 1,528.66.


"The market is catching its breath following the recent rally,
waiting for the release of China's GDP data " Tongyang Investment
Bank analyst Lee Hyun-Ju said.


Korea Investment Securities analyst Kim Hak-Gyun said the
"correction" was merely marginal, thanks to foreign investors'
continued support.


The upward trend is unlikely to stop now, and the market could
rise another 100 points, he said.


Hynix dropped 100 to 33,550.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 1.05 percent lower as early gains
driven by Wall Street's overnight advance gave way to profit-
taking.


Dealers said old economy stocks took the hardest hit while the
heavyweight technology sector continued to be weighed down by
uncertainties ahead of corporate results.


The weighted index lost 84.25 points at 7,959.29, off a high of
8,100.61 and a low of 7,952.18, on turnover of 132.08 billion
dollars (4.0 billion US).


President Securities manager Johnny Lee blamed profit-taking for
the downturn.


"The market extended its rally early in the session thanks to the
New York lead but investors would rather pocket profits when
possible rather than take risk."


Lee said that many investors remained on the sidelines while
awaiting first- quarter results.


"Earnings figures from local firms and major US ones will be
crucial to the local bourse going forward," he said.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co rose 0.50 dollars to 68.00.


SHANGHAI: Share prices shrugged off early weakness and closed
0.43 percent higher at another record on strong fund inflows with
property and metal stocks gaining ground.


Dealers said the market was boosted by continued capital inflows
despite some concerns that corrections would be needed after
consecutive sharp gains.


The Shanghai composite index closed up 15.43 points at 3,611.87
on turnover of 176.11 billion yuan (22.78 billion US dollars).


"Fresh funds continued actively building positions after the
market saw profit- taking in morning trade, and the bullish
sentiment here is unlikely to wane unless some major negative
news emerges," Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, said.


However, some analysts warned that the market could consolidate
in the near future.


"In the short term, the market could see some corrections after
rising so sharply in recent trading weeks, and it might be wise
to lock in gains for the moment," Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow
Securities, said.


Goldfield Industries Inc rose by its 10 percent daily limit to
19.93 yuan.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed down 0.18 percent as investors took
profits in blue- chip stocks after earlier gains sent the market
into record territory.


The SP/ASX 200 closed down 11.2 points at 6,186.5. A total of
1.93 billion shares worth 6.32 billion dollars (5.26 billion US)
were traded.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
after a solid start to trading on positive offshore leads the
market gave way to profit-taking which was to be expected with
prices at record levels.


Smith said price volatility can be expected as the market
continues to hover at record levels on wide buying although
prices are supported by underlying fundamentals including a
robust domestic economy.


"We're only down a few points - there is no damage at all - just
a bit of profit taking at the top which is a healthy sign," he
said.


Smith said bank stocks continued to garner support.


"Our analysts are saying remain overweight (in banks) as the key
drivers are positive -- the economy is strong, credit growth is
still strong and credit quality remains sound," he said.


CMC Markets chief analyst David Land said the banking and finance
sectors were the only areas to avoid the sell-off following
recent highs.


"When we get at these very high levels, I think you get the
market acting more quickly to take profits," he said.


"Simply because of the very strong run up that we've had, it
makes people act a little bit more tentatively.


"A lot of people are keen to maybe lighten the load of some
positions they have at these levels."


Commonwealth Bank shares rose 0.46 to 52.65.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed flat as some investors opted to
take profits on earlier gains.


The Straits Times Index closed up 1.17 points at 3,415.32 on
volume of 3.53 billion shares worth 2.37 billion dollars (1.57
billion US).


Fraser Securities research head Najeeb Jarhom said he believes
market valuations are "a bit high," although they are supported
by positive news from the construction sector and rising property
prices.


Singapore Telecommunications added 0.04 to 3.58 on hopes that the
company will announce a hefty dividend when it reveals next month
its results for the financial year to March.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.56 percent higher, recording
a new all-time high after a volatile trading session.


The local bourse shifted into a profit-taking mode immediately
after it surpassed its all-time intraday high of 1,332 points in
the early session, Stephen Soo, senior technical analyst at TA
Securities said.


"The market has been running up for so long. Until buyers return
to accumulate again, the market will continue to consolidate," he
said.


The composite index rose 7.35 points to 1,330.26 on volume of
2.17 billion shares valued at 3.20 billion ringgit (941 million
dollars).


Cheah King Yoong, head of research at SJ Securities, said the
bourse was expected to face resistance as it approaches the
1,340-point level while support is seen at 1,302 points.


"Indications are that many KLCI-linked stocks are likely to
report an average earnings growth of 17 percent," he said, adding
that external factors, especially from the US, is expected to
dictate the market's direction going forward," he said.


Tenaga rose 0.20 ringgit at 12.40.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.37 percent higher with significant
trading volume and improved market sentiment after an overnight
US stock rally.


Dealers said banking stocks led gains, buoyed by expectations of
good financial results scheduled to be released starting this
week as well as further interest rate cuts by the central bank
next month.


The composite index rose 2.57 points to 695.03.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 0.08 percent higher with the main
index ending at yet another all-time high, supported by
continuing interest in plantation companies.


Dealers said the gains were also fuelled by interest in selected
large companies such as Telkom and Astra International.


The composite index closed up 1.616 points at 1,965.438. Volume
was at 3.48 billion shares valued at 3.22 trillion rupiah (354.23
million dollars).


Recapital Securities analyst Satrio Hutomo said the market was
firm at the opening on continued optimism over upcoming first
quarter result releases, as well as Wall Street's overnight rise.


"However, some investors were tempted to cash-in gains when the
index neared a (technical) resistance mark of 1,980 points," he
said.


He noted that the profit-taking, which was focused on mining
stocks, was healthy given the sector's sharp gains over the past
few days.


Telkom rose 50 rupiah to 10,450.


MANILA: Share prices closed 1.54 percent higher as Wall Street's
overnight advance lifted sentiment.


The composite index added 50.31 points to 3,318.17. Turnover
totalled 3.39 billion shares worth 6.28 billion pesos (133
million dollars) changed hands.


"Wall Street's rally provided a boost, and investors have also
begun taking positions ahead of the first-quarter corporate
results," said Astro del Castillo of First Grade Holdings.


"The trickle of positive economic news also shows that the
Philippine economy is gaining momentum, making investors more
positive about the corporate results for the first quarter," he
added.


The central bank announced Monday that cash remittances in
February by Filipino workers abroad rose 25.4 percent year-on-
year to 1.1 billion dollars.


Economic managers also forecast the economy to grow by up to
seven percent in 2007, above the government's target of 6.1-6.7
percent,  if programmed infrastructure projects this year are
completed.


Philippine Long Distance Telephone rose 110 pesos at 2,515.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.15 percent higher in muted
trade.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 6.30 points to 4,177.01 on turnover
worth 115.6 million dollars (85.5 million US).


"It's fluctuated a wee bit between a few points down and a few
points up, so it managed to hold up on the right side of the
ledger," said Stephen Wright of ASB Securities.


Domestic-focussed stocks were firm while some exporters were were
weaker as the New Zealand dollar continued to hover near record
levels, closing local trade at 73.92 US cents.


Telecom fell one cent to 4.82 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed 0.65 percent lower as investors
locked-in gains in software stocks after strong earnings from
India's leading software exporters.


Dealers said the solid earnings from Tata Consultancy Services
this week and Infosys Technologies last week allayed concerns
that a stronger Indian rupee against the dollar had impacted
earnings for the export-driven companies.


The rupee stands at a nine-year high of 41.7 against the dollar,
fuelled by tight monetary policy to contain inflation.


The Mumbai Sensex fell 88.54 points to 13,607.04.


"Investors chose to book profit in software stocks after two days
of sharp gains. We will see select buying in coming days," said
Hiten Mehta, a fund manager with Fortune Financial Services.

