

Hundreds of England's Barmy Army fan club added more life to the
highly-charged atmosphere at the Kensington Oval for Tuesday's
World Cup clash with South Africa.


England needed a win to sneak into the last four, while a victory
for South Africa would put the Proteas into the semi-finals where
they would join Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka.


With India already eliminated, the Barmy Army's strength was
increased with help from the Bharat Army who had been hoping to
see Rahul Dravid's side in contention


"We are here to smack and crack," said Dennis Plent, from North
Yorkshire. "The noise we make is awesome, it will shake the
stands and the South Africans," said Plent who is here with his
wife Rachael.


"For us Kevin Pietersen will prove better than Graeme Smith,"
added Plent of the bitter rivalry between the England batsman and
the South African captain.


Pietersen, born in South Africa, moved to England in frustration
at the quota system in operation in the republic and performed
well on his return to the country in 2005.


An estimated 6,000 English fans have come here for England's
three matches.


Michael Vaughan's side beat Bangladesh by four wickets here last
week and their last match - which could be another high-voltage
affair if they beat South Africa - is against the West Indies on
Saturday.


"We are making sure there's a carnival atmosphere at the
Kensington Oval. We have brought our trumpet player Bill Cooper
and our Jimmy Saville look-a-like Vic Flowers," said director of
the Barmy Army, Paul Burnham.


For some, it is a time to show their loyalty to their adopted
Britain.


"When India play England, we naturally support India, but here
the scenario is different. We are here as part of Bharat Army and
are supporting England and hope they play the final," said Chiman
Patel.


South Africa fans, small in number, were ready to encounter the
Barmy Army noise.


"We can shout as loud as they can, but I think there is no
animosity between us and England. Our rivals are Australia who we
want to beat either in the semi- final or final," said Joe
Openshaw who came from Rustenburg, South Africa.


"We are not scared of England or their fans. We can overcome
them."

