

The United States Tuesday advised its citizens not to use
Indonesian airlines after a spate of accidents including two
disasters which have cost more than 120 lives this year.


Washington has downgraded Indonesian airlines' safety rating and
Americans should use other carriers when visiting the country,
the US embassy here said in a statement.


"On April 16, 2007, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
announced that it has revised Indonesia's safety oversight
category from Category 1 to Category 2," said the statement
posted on the embassy's website.


"Whenever possible, Americans travelling to and from Indonesia
should fly directly to their destinations on international
carriers from countries whose civil aviation authorities meet
international aviation safety standards," it said.


Indonesia has been hit by a string of deadly transport accidents
including plane crashes, raising doubts about the enforcement of
safety standards.


A Garuda jet burst into flames and shot off the runway in the
city of Yogyakarta last month, killing 21 people.


On New Year's Day an Adam Air Boeing 737-400 carrying 102 people
disappeared from the skies, with only small pieces of the plane
found since.


Indonesia is also subject to a litany of minor plane accidents.
Last week a Garuda plane landed with a burst tyre and in
February, an Adam Air craft's fuselage bent badly on landing. No
one was hurt in those incidents.


Tuesday's statement said the FAA based its safety downgrade on a
controversial audit from the Indonesian civil aviation agency
which revealed that none of the nation's 54 airlines had met all
minimum safety standards.


Last month's audit from the Indonesian Directorate General of
Civil Aviation also issued a warning to several airlines to
comply with standards in three months or face closure.


The statement came just hours after Transport Minister Hatta
Radjasa pledged to significantly improve safety standards by 2009
in the wake of the accidents.


Radjasa said his office has devised a "roadmap" that included
improving air traffic control systems and runways at airports and
expertise of aviation sector staff.


He also pledged to swiftly hand down sanctions for breaches of
safety regulations and to make public reports into serious
accidents.


The minister promised to release the voice box recorder on last
month's ill- fated Garuda plane once a final report into the
cause of the accident was completed.


Radjasa said Indonesia needed private-sector assistance in
upgrading transport infrastructure, with most Indonesian planes
about 20 years old and railway tracks that dated back to the
Dutch colonial era.


He said the government plans to increase the transport budget by
50 percent. "We believe and understand that safety and security
are two of the most important factors in any transport sector,"
he told reporters.


Indonesia, an archipelago nation of more than 17,000 islands,
relies largely on air transportation.


Deregulation of the industry in 1997 gave rise to a rapid growth
in air travel, triggering price wars and, experts say,
compromising safety standards in the drive for profit.

