

Turkey unveiled Tuesday a programme of technical reforms until
2013 to bring the country in line with European Union norms,
despite a slowdown in its turbulent accession process.


Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul said Ankara was determined to
advance reforms, including in the eight policy areas where
negotiations were frozen in December because of Turkey's refusal
to grant trade privileges to Cyprus, which Ankara does not
recognize.


"The problematic issues are mostly political. We cannot cling to
them and remain at a standstill," Gul told a press conference.


"When the political problems are one day resolved, we will meet
with the EU and it will take us half an hour to open and close
those chapters," he said.


Candidates for membership are required to adopt EU norms in 35
policy areas.


Turkey cannot oficially close talks in any of the chapters until
the Cyprus dispute is resolved.


Ending a long hiatus in the talks, the EU last month began
negotiations with Turkey on "enterprise and industry policy,"
only the second chapter Ankara has managed to open since "science
and research" in June 2006.


"We maintain our goal of EU membership with determination," Gul
said. "The reforms will facilitate our negotiating process on the
one hand and, on the other, raise standards in many aspects of
our daily lives."


The programme outlines a timetable for completing legislative
amendments and other legal regulations by 2013 to align with EU
standards in areas ranging from transport and food safety to
customs, competition policies and the environment.


Turkey's chief negotiator in the accession talks, Economy
Minister Ali Babacan, explained that the timetable concerned only
the completion of legislative work and did not include target
dates for their implementation, which would be decided later on a
case-by-case basis.


The programme will require parliament to enact about 200 pieces
of legislation plus some 400 other regulations to be issued by
the government, he said.


"Political reforms will also continue. We will focus particularly
on resolving problems that emerge on the ground in the
implementation of the reforms," he said.


Gul said Ankara is committed to amending Article 301 of the penal
code, which has resulted in the prosecution of dozens of
intellectuals for "insulting Turkishness" and triggered harsh EU
criticism, but did not say when.


Turkey's EU membership talks, which got off to a turbulent start
in October 2005, have been overshadowed by presidential elections
in May and general elections scheduled for November.

