

The South Korean port city of Incheon Tuesday won the right to
host the 2014 Asian Games, fending off a challenge from New Delhi
to hold the lucrative multi- sport event.


It will be the third time Korea has played host following Seoul
in 1986 and Busan in 2002. Seoul also held the Olympics in 1988.


The New Delhi delegation was devastated after insisting it was
the frontrunner and had a right to win, having been overlooked
since it was last selected in 1982.


The vote swung in Incheon's favour after frantic last-minute
lobbying by both sides of the 45 Olympic Council of Asia (OCA)
nations making up the body that controls sport in the region.


"There is no loser and no winner tonight," said OCA president
Sheikh Ahmad Al- Fahad Al-Sabah in announcing the decision.


"The only winner is the Asian Olympic movement and the growth of
the Asian Games. It was a good fight.


"Incheon is a well organised economic city and they have worked
hard to market their city.


"It was very close. They both had weak points and strong points.
From a marketing viewpoint, Korea had the edge."


The Asiad is expected to have a massive economic impact on the
city, with officials forecasting it will create 270,000 new jobs
and attract huge foreign investment.


It will also likely change the landscape of Incheon, with the
construction of an athletes' village, sports parks and a public
golf course.


The city currently has 11 Olympic-standard sports facilities,
with four more being upgraded and five new stadiums in the
planning phase. Another 17 will be built before the event,
including new aquatics and tennis complexes.


It promised in its presentation, based on the theme "One United
Asia", that all the facilities would be built in an
environmentally friendly manner, and outlined plans for an
International Cultural Festival to coincide.


Chairman of the Incheon bid, Shin Yong-suk, said the
infrastructure worked in its favour, and pledged to "make the
Asian Games better than the Olympic Games."


South Korea will now organise an Inter-ministerial Support
Committee headed by new Prime Minister Han Duck-Soo, appointed
last month, to mobilise the resources to make the Games happen.


Prior to the final vote, Incheon held a 30-minute presentation
that included a video message from South Korean President Roh
Moo-hyun. It promised to raise 20 million dollars to support
Asian countries that have not yet won medals in the Asian Games.


New Delhi was unable to match that figure.


"Korea's accumulated experience from hosting some of the world's
greatest sporting events together with its advanced
infrastructure, its surging economy and its passion for sports
means Incheon is a safe bet," South Korea said in its
presentation document.


"The events will encourage friendship and unity on the Korean
peninsula, in Northeast Asia and across the continent. The whole
world will be watching Incheon."


Incheon, a commercial and logistics hub for Northeast Asia with a
population of 2.4 million, is best known as being the country's
main gateway. South Korea's main international airport opened
near the city in 2001.


New Delhi had based its "bid of a billion people" on its
hospitality and said publicly it would offer free flights and
accommodation to all the participants if it won.


It also claimed it was its turn to play host and said it would
have the necessary infrastructure in place with the Commonwealth
Games being held in Delhi in 2010.


Hosting an Asian Games is a monumental task and the bar was set
even higher by Doha in December, which staged what was generally
considered the best Asiad to date.


Guangzhou in China hosts the 2010 event.

