

The deadliest school shooting in US history was carried out by a
23-year-old "loner" from South Korea who was studying for an
English major, university and police officials said Tuesday.


Police identified Cho Seung-Hui, a legal US resident, as the
shooter at Virginia Tech University and said he may have acted
alone in killing 32 people before committing suicide on Monday.


Cho was an undergraduate student in his senior year majoring in
English, said campus police chief Wendell Flinchum.


He lived on campus at Harper Hall dormitory and his residence was
established in Centreville, Virginia outside Washington, police
said.


"He was a 23-year-old South Korean here in the US as a resident
alien," Flinchum said.


Virginia Tech University Charles Steger told ABC television
earlier that two people may have been involved in the shooting,
but police later said it was "reasonable" to assume that Cho
acted alone.


Larry Hincker, associate vice president for university relations,
said officials had difficulty getting information about the
gunman.


"He was a loner and we had difficulty finding information about
him," he said.


Two bouts of shootings rocked the university in the town of
Blacksburg early Monday morning.


Two people were shot dead in an initial shooting in a campus
dormitory on Monday around 7:15 am and another 30 were killed in
a rampage more than two hours later. Up to 30 others were
wounded.


Steve Flaherty, superintendent of Virginia state police, said a
9mm handgun and a 22mm handgun had been recovered.


Flaherty said ballistics tests indicated one of the weapons was
used in both shootings but declined to say they had both been
carried out by Cho.


"It certainly is reasonable for us to assume that Cho was the
shooter in both places, but we don't have the evidence to take us
there at this particular point in time," he said.


Student Erin Sheehan, who survived after the gunman barged into
her German class and fired repeatedly, told CNN the attacker was
of Asian appearance, wearing a short-sleeved tan shirt and black
ammunition vest.


He was dressed "almost like a Boy Scout," she said. "He was very
silent" as he carried out the attack.


"He seemed very thorough about it, getting almost everyone down.
I was trying to act dead," she said. "He left for about 30
seconds, came back in, did almost exactly the same thing."


Local television in this town 425 kilometers (264 miles)
southwest of Washington said foreign exchange students had been
among the dead and this caused a delay in the release of details
while relatives were notified.


The university lists around 2,000 international students from
more than 110 countries, including some 1,800 students of Asian
origin in the current academic year.


The South Korean Yonhap news agency said a South Korean student
was among those hospitalized. There are some 460 students from
Korea studying at Virginia Tech, it said.


China's Xinhua agency said there were up to 500 Chinese students
at the university. The Japanese embassy in Washington said all 17
Japanese nationals thought to be members of the university were
safe, Kyodo news agency reported.

