

Britain's biggest retailer Tesco reported a 20-percent rise in
net profits on Tuesday, saying growth was driven by soaring sales
of food and other goods at home and abroad.


Alongside the results, Tesco said it would create 25,000 new jobs
around the world this year.


The supermarket giant said net earnings hit a record 1.892
billion pounds (2.777 billion euros, 3.767 billion dollars) in
the year ending February 24, 2006. The figure had been 1.570
billion pounds in 2004-2005.


Tesco, which has 3,000 supermarket branches worldwide including
1,800 in Britain, said that revenue rose by 8.1 percent to 42.641
billion pounds during its last trading year, driven by strong
sales in Asia, eastern Europe and its home market.


Pre-tax profits leapt by 13.2 percent to 2.545 billion pounds,
which was at the top end of market expectations.


The group also said it would return "at least" 3.0 billion pounds
to shareholders in 2007, double the figure of 1.5 billion pounds
announced previously.


"Tesco is investing for the future and delivering today," Tesco
chief executive Terry Leahy said in comments accompanying the
release.


"These results demonstrate that we have again made good progress
across the group, whilst making significant start-up investment
in new businesses and coping well with challenging conditions in
some markets."


Tesco is the world's third-biggest retailer behind French
supermarket Carrefour and US giant Wal-Mart, which is out in
front.


Tesco accounts for one third of the total grocery market in
Britain -- equal to the combined sales of its two nearest rivals,
which are Wal-Mart unit Asda and Sainsbury's.


In afternoon trade, the share price in Tesco stood at 461.00
pence, a rise of 1.15 percent compared with Thursday's close.
Most British companies saw their share prices fall into the red
on London's FTSE 100 index owing to news that British inflation
hit a decade-high 3.1 percent in March.


In a note to clients, US broker Merrill Lynch repeated its 'buy'
stance and target price of 480 pence but said that at first
glance the earnings numbers were a little light of its own
expectations.


Cazenove repeated its 'outperform' recommendation on Tesco,
calling the figures "another good set of results" and noting that
organic progress remains strong.


Meanwhile in a conference call to reporters after the results'
publication, Tesco's finance director Andy Higginson ruled out a
full-scale sale-and- leaseback of the group's 28 billion-pound
property portfolio.


The retailer is planning to release cash from its property
through a sequence of joint ventures and other transactions, at
home and abroad in a bid to return money to shareholders.

