

Four Nepalese security guards and an Afghan driver were killed
Tuesday when a bomb destroyed a UN vehicle in one of the
deadliest attacks on the world body in Afghanistan since 2001.


The Taliban claimed responsibility for the remotely controlled
blast targeting a UN convoy in the southern city of Kandahar --
the birthplace of the Islamist movement which was ousted from
power five years ago.


"The blast has claimed the lives of an Afghan driver and four
Nepalese contractors working with the United Nations office for
project services," the UN said in a statement released from the
capital Kabul.


The world body, which oversees reconstruction in post-conflict
Afghanistan, said the attack was "a clear violation of
international humanitarian law and the UN will be pursuing full
accountability for those who are behind this."


UN spokesman Adrian Edwards told AFP it was "certainly one of the
deadliest attacks against the UN in Afghanistan since 2001."


The bomb almost completely destroyed the armoured UN vehicle and
its smoking wreckage lay across a road near the centre of the
city. Police were trying to remove two bodies trapped inside, an
AFP reporter witnessed.


The Afghan interior ministry said it was investigating the type
of explosive used in the bomb. Kandahar province police chief
Esmatullah Alizai said it was a "very powerful remote-controlled
explosion."


"We carried out the attack, it was pre-planned. It was a remote-
controlled bomb," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP from
an unknown location by phone, without giving further details.


The blast comes two days after four Afghan employees of a US-
owned private security firm were killed by a motorcycle-borne
suicide bomber at Kandahar airfield, a base for the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force.


Human Rights Watch said in a report published Monday that
civilian deaths from "war crimes" and other attacks by Taliban-
led insurgents have soared in the past 15 months, to a figure of
at least 669 deaths.


A would-be suicide bomber wearing an explosives-filled vest was
detained on Monday night in the eastern city of Khost, near the
Pakistani border, where eight policemen were killed in a suicide
blast on Saturday, police said.


President Hamid Karzai's spokesman on Tuesday reiterated claims
that Taliban militants based in Pakistan were continuing to flood
over the border, and called for "more, better and effective
cooperation" between the two nations.


"Afghanistan's problem is clear. Terrorists are crossing... from
the other side of the border and carry out sabotage operations.
They're active there," spokesman Karim Rahimi told a news
conference.


He said that Karzai would meet his Pakistani counterpart Pervez
Musharraf in Turkey late this month to resolve months of bad
blood over the insurgency. He did not give a date.


Meanwhile Afghanistan's violent past claimed fresh victims when a
round of ammunition apparently left over from the Soviet invasion
exploded at a school in the western city of Herat, killing four
children.


Another five children were wounded in the blast at the school
which had previously served as a military barracks, Herat police
chief Mohammad Shafiq Fazli told AFP.

