

Peter Crouch has responded to speculation surrounding his
Liverpool future by insisting he has no intention of quitting the
Champions League semi-finalists.


England striker Crouch, set to face Middlesbrough in a
Premiership clash at Anfield on Wednesday, has been continually
linked with a summer move to Newcastle after failing to secure a
regular starting spot in Rafa Benitez's team since his seven-
million-pound switch from Southampton two years ago.


The 6ft 7ins forward is the club's leading scorer with 18 goals
this season, but Liverpool are understood to be monitoring
Spanish duo David Villa and Fernando Torres ahead of possible
summer swoops bankrolled by their new American owners.


However, Crouch has vowed to prove his commitment to Liverpool as
they close in on third spot in the Premiership and the Champions
League semi-final double- header against Chelsea.


He said: "People are saying I am going to move on but I'm
determined to prove I'm happy at the club. I want to stay and,
until I'm told otherwise, I will carry on doing the same things
and working hard.


"It has never entered my head to leave. I'm happy here. There are
more things to come, we will win more things and I certainly
don't want to leave.


"But I've got to work hard and make sure I'm invaluable to the
set up otherwise you will find yourself out of it.


"I think the future is bright. We have got the right man in
charge, we have got a new stadium to look forward to and I don't
want to go anywhere else."


With a top four spot and Champions League qualification for next
season virtually secured, Liverpool boss Benitez admits that next
Wednesday's Champions League first leg against Chelsea is looming
large in his players' minds.


But the former Valencia coach insists that the Middlesbrough and
Saturday's Anfield encounter with Wigan will be crucial pointers
as to his team selection against Jose Mourinho's men.


Benitez said: "We have two home games now and we know if we play
well and with confidence we could win those games. We have to try
to be positive.


"The players know every game is important for them. If they want
to play in the semi-final they need the confidence of the manager
and the people.


"We know what they players are capable of but they should show
they're in a good situation to play at their best. We have a few
games to play before the semi- final and we expect 100 per cent."


Middlesbrough travel to Anfield seven points clear of the
relegation zone, but with a daunting trip to Manchester United
following their clash with Liverpool. Relegation is a distant
possibility, but Boro and England winger Stewart Downing insists
the Teessiders can wipe out those fears against the big two.


He said: "From the outside looking in, it probably looks as if we
want the season to end, but certainly in the dressing room we
don't feel that way because we haven't got 40 points yet. There's
no chance of us just letting things drift.


"There are two big games coming up at Liverpool and Manchester
United. They're not easy games, but we have to go there and put
up a fight.


"Everyone fears that we'll go to Anfield and Old Trafford and get
beat, but we have good records there and we'll go with confidence
and give them a hard game."

