

John Terry will have no qualms about pushing his boyhood
favourites West Ham closer to relegation from the Premiership as
Chelsea set their sights on the back-to-back wins he believes are
vital to keep the heat on Manchester United at the top of the
table.


The Chelsea skipper acknowledged that anything less than maximum
points from Wednesday's trip to Upton Park and Saturday's fixture
at Newcastle could be fatal to their hopes of a third straight
title.


Terry, who had trials with West Ham as a boy, harbours a soft
spot for the east London club but his passion for another top
flight winner's medal outweighs any sentiment.


"My dad had trials for West Ham when he was really young and all
my family are West Ham fans," Terry revealed.


"They will be in that end of the ground and I will get a bit of
stick but that's how it has been for the last four or five years.
I was with West Ham as a boy and I've still got small feelings
for the club.


"Hopefully they can stay up but hopefully not by beating us. The
next two games are crucial for us - West Ham and Newcastle away -
but if we can win them, it will be 'game on'."


Chelsea, currently three points adrift of United, are determined
to ensure that the title is still in the balance when their
rivals visit Stamford Bridge on May 9.


But whatever the outcome of the most exciting title tussle in
years, Terry is far from grudging in his praise for the way Sir
Alex Ferguson's squad have raised the bar this season.


"In the last couple of years we have run away with it a little
bit but United have shown great desire to come back and push us,"
the England captain admitted.


"We are pushing them right to the wire. We know we are in
touching distance of them, one result and it swings back in our
favour. They have still got to come to Stamford Bridge but the
respect is there for them individually and collectively. I think
it's a mutual respect."


The May 9 meeting will be followed by an FA Cup final appointment
on May 19 and United and Chelsea could yet to head to head in the
Champions League final four days later.


"It could be a great end to the season," Terry said. "United have
got probably the best player in the world at the moment in
(Cristiano) Ronaldo. He is playing superbly and the team is
playing well as a whole.


"We are not banging them in as much as them and not as good as
them to watch at the moment but we are getting the results and
that is the main thing."

