

New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark headed Monday for her
first talks with US President George W. Bush since ties were
strained over Wellington's refusal to join the US-led war in
Iraq.


Relations between the countries have improved since then, with
New Zealand notably involved in Afghanistan, and Clark aims to
cement that turnaround in her two-day trip to Washington.


Clark and Bush will meet Wednesday while she will also sit down
with other senior US administration officials. She last met the
US leader one-to-one in 2002.


New Zealand lost its status as a US ally in 1985 after banning
visits by nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed warships.


It also refused -- unlike near-neighbour Australia -- to join the
coalition which invaded Iraq in 2003.


But the United States has praised New Zealand's role in trying to
maintain stability in the South Pacific and for its involvement
in reconstruction and security efforts in Afghanistan.


"I do feel there is a new focus in the State Department on the
significance of the Pacific and of course on the role that New
Zealand plays," Clark told a press conference Monday before she
left.


US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Glyn Davies, told a
Congressional panel last week that New Zealand was a key US
partner in the South Pacific.


"While New Zealand's anti-nuclear legislation precludes a
military alliance, our bilateral relationship is excellent," he
said.


"Both countries recognize each others' policy position and have
decided not to let this difference define the entire
relationship."


Asked if the status of friend rather than ally was enough for New
Zealand, Clark replied Monday: "It's good enough for me."


New Zealand has been seeking a free trade agreement (FTA) with
the United States but has found itself down the queue of nations
seeking such a deal.


Clark said there were several reasons why New Zealand was
unlikely to win a free trade deal anytime soon, partly because
Bush will lost fast-track trade negotiating powers in June.


"You have to bear in mind we are a small economy, there are not
great economic gains for the US when they are dealing with us,"
she added.


"We're also a very open economy so there are not a lot of trading
barriers here either."


Clark is due to spend two days in Washington before travelling to
Chicago and Seattle.

