

England head coach Brian Ashton on Monday hailed the contribution
of scrum-half Harry Ellis to the world champions' Six Nations
campaign.


Ellis was England's outstanding performer in a tournament that
saw them beat Scotland, Italy and France, but lose both away
games against Ireland and Wales.


His form proved a major boost as England struggle to find a
consistent occupier of the scrum-half role after Matt Dawson and
Kyran Bracken retired after the 2003 World Cup.


"I think Harry Ellis, at this moment in time, has established
himself as England's number one number nine," said Ashton.


"He is an incredibly physical scrum-half, and he has done well. I
am really pleased by his efforts."


Ellis scored England's opening try in a 27-18 Millennium Stadium
defeat against Wales, and then set up wing Jason Robinson for a
scintillating touchdown following his rampaging break through the
home defence.


While Ashton admits he is "a fair distance away" from formulating
the World Cup squad, Ellis appears a certainty, having seen off
his current closest challengers Shaun Perry and Peter Richards.


England's next Test is against World Cup pool opponents South
Africa in Bloemfontein on May 26, and Ashton added: "I am going
to sit down this next week and have a really good look at the
personnel available, then start working towards getting a squad
together for South Africa.


"You can split the Six Nations into two phases from our point of
view.


"Had we stayed with the way we played in the first three games
(against Scotland, Italy and Ireland), we would have made no
progress whatsoever.


"We've tried to change that, so I think we have made some
significant progress. We have just got to work really hard now to
get the balance right in terms of how we play the game."


A growing concern for Ashton though, will be England's away form.


They have not won on the road since February last year, suffering
successive defeats against Scotland, France, Australia (twice),
Ireland and Wales.

