

Afghan leaders called here Monday for Germany and the
international community to do more to help rebuild their country
and warned it would be disastrous if German forces pulled out of
Afghanistan.


Afghan President Hamid Karzai met Chancellor Angela Merkel to
urge Germany, one of Afghanistan's closest allies, to maintain
its force of 3,000 troops who are serving with the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in the north of
the country.


He told a press conference after the talks that Afghanistan had
made significant progress since US-led forces overthrew the
extremist Taliban leadership in 2001, but said it would be "many,
many years" before Afghanistan could "sit back and feel safe".


"That time will come with hard work from the Afghan people and
cooperation from the international community," Karzai said.


"Without the participation of the international community,
Afghanistan would have not been where it is today.


"The presence of German forces in Afghanistan, the presence of
aid workers from Germany in Afghanistan, the presence of German
assistance to Afghanistan has enabled our desire to be fulfilled
partly."


A militant Islamic group, the Kataeb Siham al-Haq (Righteous
Arrows Battalions), has threatened to kill two German hostages
being held in Iraq unless Germany pulls its soldiers out of
Afghanistan.


Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta warned that any
German withdrawal would be disastrous at a time when the US
military is warning of a renewed Taliban insurgency this year.


"The withdrawal of the German army would be a catastrophe for the
security and the democratic process in my country," Spanta told
Germany's ARD television.


"I hope the hostages in Iraq are freed soon, but I also hope that
the German commitment to peace and stability is maintained."


Merkel said Germany would not give in to the kidnappers' demands.


"The German government cannot be blackmailed," she said.


"We know what our commitment to the civilian rebuilding means to
the Afghan government and we should not be blackmailed by people
who are terrorists.


"The crisis unit is doing everything it can to secure the lives
of the hostages. Naturally, given the situation, we are greatly
concerned."


Hannelore Krause, 61, who is married to an Iraqi doctor, and her
20-year-old son Sinan, who works at the Iraqi foreign ministry,
were seized on February 6.


Turning to another hostage crisis, Karzai said he hoped that an
Italian journalist captured two weeks ago in Afghanistan would be
freed on Monday.


"I hope the matter is resolved today. He should either be freed
by now or in the process of being freed," Karzai said.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo, a reporter for La Repubblica newspaper,
was seized on March 4 in the province of Helmand, a Taliban
stronghold.


The Taliban said it had handed Mastrogiacomo over to tribal
elders on Sunday ahead of a deadline of Monday evening for their
demands to be met.


A top security official told AFP that the government had agreed
to free two Taliban in exchange for the correspondent and his
Afghan translator.


Karzai was to travel on to France, where he will meet President
Jacques Chirac. France has 1,100 troops serving in Afghanistan.

