

Domestic Thai carriers have started moving equipment back to
Bangkok's nearly century-old Don Muang airport, which is set to
re-open this weekend for commercial flights, officials said
Monday.


Flag carrier Thai Airways International and two budget airlines
-- Nok Airlines and One-Two-Go -- are scheduled to resume
domestic flights from Don Muang on Sunday, six months after it
was shuttered and all commercial flights were moved to the new
Suvarnabhumi Airport.


No flights with international connections will use the old
airport, in a bid to minimise inconvenience to the 40 million
passengers expected to fly through Bangkok this year.


Thai Airways flights to holiday hotspots like Phuket and Chiang
Mai will remain at Suvarnabhumi.


Officials estimate that making Don Muang a domestic hub will
relieve almost 20 percent of the traffic at Suvarnabhumi, which
has faced lingering problems since it opened on September 28,
including small cracks in the tarmac.


About 20,000 passengers are expected to use Don Muang every day,
the airport's general manager, Pinit Saraithong, said.


"We have upgraded the runways to ensure smoother landings and
take-offs, while check-in and luggage delivery systems have been
kept in working order, even though we haven't had commercial
flights" for the past six months, Pinit told AFP.


Since Suvarnabhumi opened, Don Muang has serviced only charter
and military flights.


Thai Airways will move 30 flights daily, roughly 70 percent of
its domestic routes, to Don Muang, while 11 other routes will
remain at Suvarnabhumi.


"We will complete the partial relocation back to Don Muang on
March 20 before embarking on test flight operations from the
airport the day after," an airline spokesman told AFP.


The problems at Suvarnabhumi and the decision to reopen Don Muang
have been clouded in politically charged controversy.


Army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont initially
announced last month that Don Muang would become a second
international hub for Bangkok. But airlines revolted, with 94
international carriers opposing the plan.


The government then decided that airlines could voluntarily move
domestic flights to Don Muang, but only three carriers took up
the offer.


The government says the shift is needed to repair the sparkling
new Suvarnabhumi, including cracks in the runways and inadequate
bathroom facilities.


Analysts have warned that operating two airports could cause
confusion for millions of tourists and dampen Thailand's chance
to compete with regional rivals to become a major aviation hub in
Southeast Asia.


The three-billion-dollar Suvarnabhumi airport, with a capacity of
45 million passengers per year, is hoped to boost the country's
tourism industry, which accounts for six percent of the economy.

