

The long-awaited murder trial of legendary music producer Phil
Spector gets underway here on Monday, four years after he
allegedly gunned down a B-movie actress at his Los Angeles
mansion.


Spector, 66, a reclusive musical genius who pioneered the unique
"Wall of Sound" recording technique during the 1960s, is accused
of shooting dead Lana Clarkson at his hill-top estate on February
3, 2003.


Prosecutors say Spector, famed for his work with The Beatles,
Tina Turner, The Righteous Brothers and The Ronettes, killed
Clarkson after meeting the statuesque blonde at the Hollywood
nightclub where she worked as a hostess.


Spector, who has hired and fired a series of high-powered defense
lawyers since his arrest, has been quoted in interviews as saying
that Clarkson's death was suicide. He remains free on one million
dollars bail.


Monday's hearing will begin with jury selection that will see
around 300 potential jurors vetted to determine the extent of
their knowledge of the case, the most high-profile televised
criminal trial since O.J. Simpson was acquitted for murder in
1995, analysts said.


The trial has been repeatedly delayed due to legal wrangling and
scheduling conflicts, most notably when Spector's lawyers
unsuccessfully argued to have potentially damning statements
excluded from the trial.


Spector is alleged to have told police officers who arrived at
his imposing mock chateau immediately after the shooting: "I
didn't mean to shoot her."


Spector, who a few weeks before the shooting described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me" has
strongly denied killing Clarkson, telling Esquire magazine in
2003 the actress shot herself.


"She kissed the gun," Spector said in the interview. "I have no
idea why -- never knew her, never even saw her before that night.
I have no idea who she was or what her agenda was."


Clarkson, who was inspired by blonde Hollywood sex symbol Marilyn
Monroe and collected Monroe memorabilia, starred in movies such
as 1987's "Amazon Women on the Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of
Morella."


Jean Rosenbluth, a former federal prosecutor who is now a
professor of law at the University of Southern California in Los
Angeles, said district attorneys would present a strong case
against Spector.


"I went to some of the pretrial hearings, and from what I've
heard, it has a pretty strong case," Rosenbluth told AFP.


"You have the fact that she was killed by his gun. Nobody
disputes that she barely knew him, so the fact that she committed
suicide at his house seems pretty improbable. If I was the
prosecutor, I would let the evidence speak for itself, it seems
pretty good."


The introduction of cameras to the court-room -- which were
notably absent from the 2005 Michael Jackson child molestation
trial -- would be manna from heaven for Spector's flamboyant
lawyer, Bruce Cutler, Rosenbluth said.


Cutler is most famous for defending organized crime figures, most
notably New York mafia boss John "Teflon Don" Gotti.


"He's a real showman. He will make it entertaining. He's very
good at spinning a story that makes his client look sympathetic,
even though it might not be very relevant," Rosenbluth added.


Robert Thompson, a professor of television and expert in popular
culture at the University of Syracuse, said Spector's trial would
generate its own momentum even though the producer was not well-
known to younger generations.


"The fact that it's going to be on camera, the fact that he is a
character. A lot of people who never heard of Phil Spector are
going to learn about him. It's going to take a life of its own."

