

Organisers of Bangkok's controversial million-baht
(29,000-dollar) meal said Monday they will donate nearly 60,000
dollars to charity, and repeat the culinary extravaganza on an
even larger scale next year.


Deepak Ohri, managing director of Lebua Hotels which hosted
February's  one- million-baht (29,000-dollar) per head feast,
said he hoped the donation would silence critics who labelled the
meal an unnecessary extravagance.


"It's not that this money has been used for the company's
expansion, it is actually going back to the people and it will
help the people," Ohri told AFP.


One-and-a-half million baht was pledged to Thai development
charity the Chaipattana Foundation, founded by the nation's king,
while aid organisation Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without
Borders) would receive 500,000 baht, he said.


Organisers claimed the opulent meal prepared by six Michelin
three-star chefs from Europe was the most expensive ever to take
place in Asia or the developing world.


Fifteen of the 40 guests paid the hefty price tag, while 25 lucky
diners were invited to feast on lobster, truffles, caviar and
fine wines for free.


The feast was enjoyed by mega-rich foodies from all over the
world, but critics questioned whether such a meal was appropriate
in a country where many still live on less than two dollars a
day.


Ohri said all the profits from the meal had been donated to
charity, with the other 13 million baht being spent on the wine,
the food and the chefs' salaries and expenses.


"We don't want to make money out of this event at all. We already
gained a lot in terms of publicity," he said.


But it appears six world-class chefs were not enough for Ohri. In
December 2008, Lebua plans to fly 30 three-star Michelin chefs to
Egypt, where 500 guests will feast on a meal with a 10,000-dollar
price tag.


If they get permission, they plan to build a one-kilometre-long
(half-a-mile) kitchen and serve the diners in the shadow of the
pyramids.


"We are seeking permission from the United Nations and the
Egyptian government right now," said Ohri, who is heading to
Cairo next month to pitch his plan.

