

More emails due for release Monday may shed light on whether the
firing of eight US attorneys was politically motivated, in a
deepening controversy that threatens US Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales.


The content of the documents to be released by the Justice
Department may play a key role in determining the fate of
Gonzales, who is under pressure to resign amid reports that his
firing is close.


Democratic Senator Charles Schumer, who leads up a Congress probe
into the firings, predicted Sunday the attorney general's head
will roll, and fairly soon.


"I think it's highly unlikely he survives," Schumer said on NBC's
"Meet the Press" show. "I wouldn't be surprised if, a week from
now, he's no longer attorney general."


Most of the attorneys were fired in December, ostensibly for poor
performance.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations the
dismissals were politically motivated.


Skeptics were given new ammunition Sunday when Democratic Senator
Dianne Feinstein revealed that San Diego US attorney Carol Lam
had been fired after she notified the Justice Department that she
intended to execute search warrants on Kyle Dustin "Dusty" Foggo,
the third-ranking CIA official at the time, as part of an anti-
corruption investigation.


Foggo was a close friend and associate of former Republican
congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who in late 2005 pleaded
guilty to accepting 2.4 million dollars in bribes and is now in
jail.


Feinstein said on CBS's "Face the Nation" program that Lam
notified the Justice Department of her search warrant plan on May
10, 2006.


The very next day, Kyle Sampson, the chief of staff for the
attorney general at the time, sent an email to deputy White House
counsel William Kelley, asking him to call to discuss "the real
problem we have right now with Carol Lam."


Another ex-attorney, David Iglesias, told a congressional hearing
earlier this month that he was added to the list of those "to be
dismissed" after Senator Pete Domenici and Representative Heather
Wilson, both Republicans from New Mexico, called him to inquire
about progress in a federal corruption probe involving state
Democrats.


Congressional investigators, experts said, will be looking
closely if the new emails contain revelations of that kind.


Gonzales now admits that "mistakes were made," and he held a
conference call with all remaining US attorneys on Friday in a
bid to reassure them.


But some analysts believe the scandal may be gathering such
momentum that cutting him loose would appear to the White House a
far more preferable option to doing nothing.


A Newsweek magazine opinion poll released Saturday found that 58
percent of Americans believe the ouster of the prosecutors was
driven by politics.


On Tuesday, the White House was expected to decide whether it
would allow the president's top political adviser, Karl Rove, and
other former and current presidential aides to testify before
Congress -- or invoke "executive privilege," a separation of
powers doctrine that some say protects the president's advisers
from appearing before Congress.


But Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
said Sunday that if Rove and others refused to come of their own
free will, he would issue congressional subpoenas.


"I want testimony under oath," Leahy declared on ABC's "This
Week" show. "I am sick and tired of getting half-truths on this."


Reports said the chairman was showing his determination to find
out whether Bush himself, rather than his attorney general, was
the driving force behind the firings.

