

England cricket managers should have acted earlier to curb all-
rounder Andrew Flintoff's binge-drinking excesses, British
newspapers said Monday after he was fired over a drunken incident
in St Lucia.


But while welcoming the discriplinary action, commentators also
voiced concern that two team coaches were reportedly in the bar
where Flintoff and other players were drinking, and did nothing
to stop them.


"Boozer Freddie had it coming," headlined the Daily Mail. "The
fact is that England have been avoiding hard decisions about
their ebullient all rounder for too long.


"Had they acted earlier, the disruptive effects of Flintoff's
binge-drinking exploits would not have arisen during the middle
of a World Cup," it added, comparing Flintoff to Ian Botham, also
not shy of celebrating.


Flintoff was stripped of his country's vice-captaincy after
reports that he had been one of a number of players who stayed
out drinking until the early hours of Saturday morning following
the six-wicket defeat by New Zealand.


The all-rounder, who went on a 24-hour binge after England's
historic Ashes victory in 2005, apologised profusely over the
incident, in which he reportedly had to be rescued after taking a
hotel pedalo out to sea in the small hours.


"By dropping Andrew Flintoff (England coach) Duncan Fletcher has
at last shown he has teeth in that unsmiling mouth," said former
England bowler Derek Pringle, writing in the Daily Telegraph.


"But .. there remain searching questions over the team's
leadership, especially with regard to discipline," he added,
noting along with others than two members of the coaching staff
were in the bar.


This fact "begs the question they did not show a bit of savvy and
tell the players to head home before midnight.


The Times, calling Flintoff the "people's champion," warned that
he was in danger of "capsizing again" unless he gets his act
together.


"Andrew Flintoff, the most popular hero in English cricket since
Ian Botham, learnt an important lesson yesterday: only winners
can drink themselves senseless and get away with it," it said.


"He must rediscover his professionalism quickly if England are to
make any impact on the World Cup."


The Daily Mirror published what it called exclusive pictures of
Flintoff's fellow players including Jimmy Anderson, Jon Lewis,
Liam Plunkett and Ian Bell drinking with a number of girls.


And it quoted an England fan present as voicing disappointment at
their behaviour, which came less than two days before another
match.


"I watched as my heroes disgraced themselves in a marathon
drinking binge. They showed scant regard about representing
England and behaved like drunken louts," said the fan.

