

India will "refine" its policy on the creation of controversial
special economic zones, a minister was quoted as saying Monday,
after 14 protesters died in police gunfire last week.


"The SEZ policy will be refined in consultation with the state
government, the farmers who own the land and industrialists," the
Press Trust of India cited federal Home Minister Shivraj Patil as
saying in Bangalore.


Protesters in Nandigram -- a village 120 kilometres (75 miles)
south of Kolkata in eastern India -- were killed Wednesday when
police opened fire in the bloodiest demonstration yet against
state government plans to buy land to set up the zones.


The shooting deaths led to a one-day general strike in the
communist-ruled state of West Bengal where Nandigram, the
proposed site for a chemical industry hub backed by Indonesia's
Salim group, is located.


Patil told reporters after opening a hospital in Bangalore,
capital of southern Karnataka state, that the federal government
has an "open mind" on the policy of setting up SEZs, PTI
reported.


The zones are meant to be privately run enclaves with world-class
infrastructure and tax breaks to attract foreign investment.


The West Bengal government last week ordered police to break a
blockade by villagers at Nandigram which had been a no-go area
for authorities since 11 people died in protests there against
SEZs in January.


The unrest in January led the federal government to suspend plans
for scores of SEZs, and last week's violence prompted West
Bengal's ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) to announce
the proposed Nandigram zone would be scrapped.


The latest violence has renewed debate over whether farmland
should be used for industry in India, where some two-thirds of
the billion-plus population live off agriculture.


The protests have piled pressure on the federal government to
review its policy on SEZs, 14 of which are in operation so far.


Their creation under a 2005 law passed by parliament was hailed
as one of the biggest spurs for industrial expansion in post-
independence India, and was inspired by the tax-free zones China
set up a quarter of a century ago that helped propel its rapid
growth.

