

A suicide attacker rammed an explosives-filled car into a US
embassy convoy in the Afghan capital Kabul Monday, wounding some
embassy staff and guards and at least three Afghan passers-by,
officials said.


The attack on the road to the eastern city of Jalalabad was the
first suicide bombing inside Kabul this year, after several
deadly blasts last year blamed on Taliban insurgents.


"There was a vehicle-borne IED (improvised explosive device) that
struck a US embassy convoy on Jalalabad road," embassy spokesman
Joe Mellott told AFP.


"There were some injuries, including one seriously injured who
has been evacuated for treatment."


Ambassador Ronald Neumann was not in the convoy, he said.


A public health ministry director, Salam Jalali, said three
Afghans were injured in the blast and evacuated to local
hospitals for treatment.


Jalali said initial reports also said six foreigners were hurt
but this was not confirmed by the embassy.


An investigator at the scene and an eyewitness told AFP they had
seen at least one child being taken to hospital by ambulance.


An Afghan blacksmith who runs a workshop near the explosion site
said the attacker appeared to have hit the convoy from the
opposite direction.


"I saw a person being thrown from one of the vehicles. I saw an
Afghan child wounded and taken to hospital," said the blacksmith,
named only Esmatullah.


Foreign troops immediately sealed off the area.


The vehicle used in the attack was still burning about half an
hour after the attack and damaged, bullet-proof, four-by-four
vehicles were pulled to the side of the road.


Many of the suicide blasts in Afghanistan last year were on the
same road, which is often used by troops travelling to the main
US coalition base at Bagram, about 60 kilometres (40 miles) from
the capital, and passes various other bases.


One of the deadliest of a rash of suicide attacks in Kabul last
year was metres (yards) away from the heavily barricaded entrance
to the US embassy. It left 16 people dead, including two US
troops.


In January last year, 10 Afghans were killed and 50 were wounded
in a suicide bomb attack near the headquarters of the governor of
the southern province of Uruzgan as the US ambassador was
visiting. Neumann was unhurt.


The Taliban has vowed a wave of such blasts this year after
nearly 140 last year killed about 200 civilians and scores of
Afghan and foreign security officials.


There have been nine suicide bombings in Afghanistan in the past
week but most have caused few casualties.


In the deadliest this year, more than 20 people -- including two
Americans and a South Korean soldier -- were killed February 27
when an attacker blew himself up outside the Bagram base while
Vice President Dick Cheney was visiting.


Military officials have warned of an expected increase in suicide
attacks this year saying the Taliban and their allies are too
weak for conventional warfare.

