

A vast trans-Atlantic stock exchange is about to be born, with
two days to go before the close of a takeover bid by the New York
Stock Exchange for the European exchange Euronext.


The new leviathan, capitalised at about 22 billion euros (29
billion dollars), will bring trading platforms in New York,
Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon under one group, also
including the Liffe financial futures market in London.


The NYSE and Euronext hope that by coming under one roof, they
will be able to increase the amount of business they handle
because each will be open to the customers of the other.


The two companies will also be able to share the costs of
computer systems and administration, saving 375 million dollars
(284 million euros) in 2009.


The event is all the more remarkable in that it has come to term.
In the last few years European stock markets, essentially those
in Frankfurt and London, and Euronext, have been entwined in
moves and counter moves to form alliances but without success.


Meanwhile in the United States, the financial derivatives market
ICE, controlling the New York Board of Trade and futures markets
in London and Dublin, wants to make a counter bid for the Chicago
Board of Trade, which is in the process of being bought by the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.


There is little doubt that the offer by the NYSE for Euronext of
about 10.7 billion euros will be successful since shareholders in
the two groups gave almost unanimous approval at the end of
December to the alliance that the two boards had prepared in
negotiations a year ago.


The offer, being made by a company created for the purpose, NYSE
Euronext, formally launched last month, closes on Wednesday.


At brokers Exane BNP Paribas, analyst Elie-Laurent Darwish said:
"I have little doubt that the offer will succeed."


When the bid was announced a year ago, it raised much hostility
in political and economic circles in Europe on the grounds that
it was not a "merger of equals" as claimed by the architects.


Opposition was based on the assessment that it amounted to an
outright takeover of the pan-European exchange Euronext by US
interests.


But Darwish commented: "About 99 percent of the shareholders
voted in favour of the merger, and those who don't believe in the
bid have probably pulled out".


Shareholders in Euronext, British and US investment funds for the
most part, can expect to make substantial capital gains by
acepting the terms offered by the NYSE. The price of shares in
Euronext has risen to record high points in recent months.


The investment fund TCI, which preferred an alliance between
Euronext and the Frankfurt exchange Deutsche Boerse, has reduced
its shareholding from more than 9.0 percent at the beginning of
the year to less than 5.0 percent.


In the absence of a big surprise, trading in shares in the new
company NYSE Euronext will begin in New York on April 4.


In practice the two component markets will retain their separate
identities, their specific trading arrangements and their trading
hours.


A vital point is that companies quoted on each market will
continue to operate under existing regulations. European
companies will not be affected by severe accounting rules, known
as the Sarbanes-Oxley laws, which are much criticised in the
United States for increasing costs on quoted comapnies.

