

Two Airbus A380s were winging their way across the Atlantic
Monday on the first test flights to the United States for the
airliner, the linchpin in an Airbus bid to overcome Boeing's
dominance in the jumbo jet market.


The flights of the problem-plagued A380 came amid reports that
both Airbus, dominated by French and German interests, and US
rival Boeing could be facing fresh challenges from China.


The Chinese cabinet announced on Monday it had approved a plan to
build large passenger aircraft that analysts said could take on
Airbus and Boeing both domestically and on the world market.


The objective is to "design and build airplanes that can carry
more than 150 passengers and compete with Airbus and Boeing," the
state-run China Daily said in a report.


The newspaper characterised the move as "a major strategic
decision" and said the project would begin "as soon as possible."


A first A380 took off before dawn from Toulouse-Blagnac airport
in southern France bound for Los Angeles on the US west coast.
Once there, it will undergo tests of its airport maneuverability
and terminal parking capability.


The flight is being conducted in conjunction with Qantas Airways
of Australia, which has ordered 12 A380s and has plans in
principle to buy eight more.


A second A380 left Frankfurt, Germany several hours later for
John F. Kennedy Airport in New York, carrying 500 passengers
invited by Airbus. At the controls will be Airbus test pilots as
well as pilots from the German carrier Lufthansa, which has
ordered 15 A380s.


From New York, the plane will fly to Chicago, returning to New
York on Tuesday and Frankfurt on Wednesday. It will then take off
for Hong Kong on March 24, stopping in Washington DC on March 25
and Munich, Germany on March 28 on its way back to Airbus
headquarters in Toulouse.


The first A380 for commercial use is scheduled to be delivered to
Singapore Airlines in October. Delivery had been planned for the
spring of 2006 but was delayed because of production problems,
notably with the aircraft's electrical cabling.


Singapore Airlines has ordered 19 A380s and has an option to
acquire six additional planes.


Airbus has to date received 166 firm orders and purchasing
intentions for the A380, designed to compete with Boeing's
market-dominant 747 family, from 15 carriers.


While the twin arrivals in the United States have generated
excitement among aviation enthusiasts, with thousands of
spectators reportedly expected to turn out in Los Angeles, the
reception from US carriers will remain lukewarm, analysts said.


"It's a huge event in the sense that the A380 is the first of its
kind and it will be the first time it has been seen here," said
Stephen Costley, managing editor of Los Angeles-based aviation
journal SpeedNews. "But most of the interest will be from
aviation enthusiasts who want to see it fly."


Richard Aboulafia, a senior analyst with the Teal Group
Corporation, said the first arrival of the A380 was important
from a practical rather than a marketing standpoint.


"It doesn't have an awful lot of relevance for the North American
market except in the sense of compatability with North American
airports, in which it's crucial, especially LAX," Aboulafia told
AFP, referring to Los Angeles.


Aboulafia noted that the two biggest US carriers, Delta and
American Airlines, had shown no interest in placing orders for
the A380 so far, and still did not have Boeing 747s in their
fleet, currently the world's largest passenger jet.


The vast size of the plane, which has a wingspan almost the
length of a football pitch, was ill-suited to the routes favoured
by most US carriers, analysts said.


Boeing eclipsed Airbus last year for the first time since 2000,
winning 1,044 orders to 790 for its European competitor.

