

Norwegian holding group Aker said on Monday it had sold its 40.1
percent stake in shipbuilding giant Aker Yards to Norwegian and
foreign shareholders for 751 million dollars.


"Aker has placed its holding of 9.1 million Aker Yards shares for
a total of 4.6 billion Norwegian kroner (565 million euros),
which corresponds to a per-share price of 500 kroner," Aker said
in a statenent.


"Aker's 40.1-percent ownership interest in Aker Yards has been
placed to Norwegian and foreign shareholders. Following the share
transaction, Aker no longer holds any shares in Europe's largest
shipbuilding group."


In a separate statement, Aker Yards said that under the new
shareholder structure, 22 percent of the capital would be held by
Norwegian interests and 78 percent by international investors.


Aker Yards was showing a gain of 2.62 percent at 509 kroner in
mid-day trade here. Aker shares had risen 0.26 percent to 388
kroner.


Aker's announcement March 14 of its intention to sell its stake
surprised investors and raisedng uncertainty about strategy for
the world's second-biggest cruise ship maker.


Aker gave no explanation for its decision, but the announcement
came after it had reduced its holding 50.4 percent to 40.1
percent in January this year.


"Although we develop companies as if they are to be permanently
held, this approach does not prevent us from selling when we
believe other owners can better advance a company's development,"
said Aker chairman and chief executive Leif-Arne Langoy said in
announcing the move last week.


In January last year, Aker Yards bought French shipyards
Chantiers de L'Atlantique, making it the fourth-biggest
shipbuilder in the world and the second-biggest cruise ship maker
after Italy's Fincantieri group.


Aker Yards employs 55,000 people and has shipyards in 17
countries.


It reported net profit of 1.037 billion kroner last year, an
increase of 33.5 percent from the result in 2005.


Faced with fierce competition from Asian shipbuilders in South
Korea, Japan and China, Aker Yards has helped consolidate the
European industry and has focused on manufacturing complex
vessels requiring advanced engineering and design.


It is a leader in the production of cruise ships, merchant
vessels such as cargo ships, and other ships requiring
customisation or specialised technology such as anchor handlers
or large oil platform supply boats.


Analysts said the decision by Aker to divest its stake in the
shipbuilder also raised questions about other companies in the
Aker group, such as engineering group Aker Kvaerner.


One industry said the "obvious next question" was whether Aker's
40.1-percent stake in Aker Kvaerner was now at risk.


"There are clearly going to be questions, because yesterday I
would have said Aker selling out of Aker Yards wouldn't have
happened either," he said.

