

Human Rights Watch criticised a proposal from the Polish
government to ban the discussion of homosexuality in schools as a
violation of basic rights, in a letter Monday to Poland's prime
minister.


The proposed law would violate both freedom of speech and impede
access to information, Human Rights Watch said in its letter to
Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski.


The proposal would "punish anyone who promotes homosexuality or
any other deviance of a sexual nature in education
establishments," said the campaigning group in its letter.


The watchdog said Polish deputy education minister Miroslaw
Orzechowski had proposed the new law last week.


"The legislation... would create a climate of intolerance and
threaten the civil and political rights of Polish educators and
of lesbian, gay bisexual and transgender (LGBT) Poles in schools,
especially youth," said the letter.


Human Rights Watch also denounced a threat by Orzechowski to sack
teachers who revealed their homosexuality, and a proposed ban on
health educators advocating safe sex practices for homosexuals
inside schools.


"Censorship would deprive students of potentially life-saving
information," the letter said.


"All persons, including children, have a right to free speech,
freedom from discrimination, and to seek, receive and impart
information," it added.


The group characterised the proposed law as the latest in a
series of what it called "attacks" on homosexual rights in
Poland.


Last year, the Council of Europe, Europe's oldest international
political body, threatened action against Poland for alleged
"government-sanctioned" homophobia over the sacking of an
education official.


Miroslaw Sielatycki was dismissed as head of a teacher training
centre allegedly because he had overseen publication of a Polish-
language version of a Council of Europe manual on human rights
education, which contained a section on homosexuality and
homophobia.


Roman Giertych, Poland's education minister and leader of junior
ruling coalition partner, the far-right League of Polish
Families, complained that the manual "provides advice about
cooperation between pupils and homosexual circles".


Former prime minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz has likened
homosexuality to a disease whose spread must be stopped.

