

Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare extended an
olive branch to Australia on Monday following a long-running row
between the Pacific neighbours.


Sogavare accepted the diplomatic credentials of Australia's new
envoy to his country, after keeping Peter Hooton waiting since
the beginning of the year amid the diplomatic row.


The row between the two countries escalated last year when
Sogavare expelled Hooton's predecessor as high commissioner,
Patrick Cole, accusing him of interfering in local politics.


"This is a giant step to seriously address issues (between the
two countries)," Sogavare told reporters after meeting with
Hooton.


"I hope Australia will take this as a gesture of goodwill," he
said.


However, Hooton indicated there was unlikely to be a speedy
return to normal relations.


"I don't underestimate the complexities of the issues before us,"
Hooton said as he met Sogavare's cabinet.


The expulsion of Cole soured relations between Canberra and
Honiara resulting in a travel ban against Solomon Islands
politicians in Australia.


When questioned if Australia would drop the ban, Hooton said this
and other issues would be dealt with in talks between the two
countries.


In a recent open letter to Solomon Islanders, Australian Foreign
Minister Alexander Downer called on them to stand up to the
government over its desire to re-arm the police.


The Solomons government backed down on its plans, but Sogavare
said relations would not resume with Australia unless Downer
apologised for criticising the government.


Downer has also said the Pacific island nation's government was
attempting to undermine the work of the Regional Assistance
Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI).


Australia led the armed intervention force RAMSI to the Solomon
Islands in mid-2003 to end five years of civil strife, in which
the country's armed police was accused of taking sides.


RAMSI is still providing security in the impoverished country but
Sogavare has been seeking to reduce Australia's leading role.

