

Following a stunning win at the TCL Classic in China Sunday,
Chapchai Nirat is being lauded as part of a powerful arsenal of
Thai young guns emerging to take on the best in Asia and Europe.


Chapchai rose to third place on the Asian Tour's UBS Order of
Merit after his maiden success in the four-round tournament.


His victory is testament to the new champions emerging from a
nation that has produced multiple winners such as veteran Boonchu
Ruangkit, Thaworn Wiratchant, Thongchai Jaidee and Prayad
Marksaeng.


The 23-year-old burly Thai earned US$166,660 for his efforts last
week and has already accumulated US$206,033 this season.


Chapchai's steady rise to fame this season, including top 10
results in the Philippines and Indonesia, is due in no small part
to the support of his more experienced compatriots over the past
few years.


Since turning pro at the age of 15, he has gained valuable tips
from the seasoned Thai players and enjoyed a solid rookie year in
2005, where he challenged Thaworn for the title at the Taiwan
Open, before finishing second.


Boonchu, Thaworn, Thongchai and Prayad have been guiding forces
for other young stalwarts such as Chinarat Phadungsil and Prom
Meesawat, who have both attained similar stardom on the Asian
Tour.


Chapchai's maiden triumph in Sanya, China, was hailed by Asian
Tour's executive chairman Kyi Hla Han, who believes the result is
a signal of a new generation of Thai champions in the region.


"Chapchai's victory in the TCL Classic is a real boost for the
game in Asia and Thailand," said Han.


"He's only 23 years old and to already win a co-sanctioned
tournament with Europe speaks highly of his capabilities and
promise."


Han believes that the Thai young guns have the potential to
exceed the achievements of their 'big brothers' in the near
future.


"Along with Prom and Chinarat, who are 24 and 18 respectively,
Chapchai represents a new breed of emerging Thai players who look
set to emulate, if not better, the feats achieved by the likes of
Boonchu, Thaworn, Thongchai and Prayad," he said.


The Asian Tour now moves to Bintan, Indonesia for the first time
to host the Motorola International Bintan at the Ria Bintan Golf
Club which offers US$350,000 in total prize money.

