

South African cricket greats lined up to pay tribute to their
former coach Bob Woolmer on Monday following his shock death at
the World Cup in the West Indies while in charge of Pakistan.


Woolmer, who coached the Proteas between 1994 and 1999, was
hailed as an outstanding innovator who enjoyed an impressive
track record under his leadership after they came in from the
cold in the post-apartheid era.


Gary Kirsten, the record run-scorer in South Africa's Test
cricket history, said Woolmer had been key to the success of his
career.


"He was an outstanding coach. He introduced a new level to the
standards of one- day cricket in particular ... This is an awful
shock," he told The Star newspaper.


"I have so many good memories of those five years in the 1990s
and Bob is central to them.


Ali Bacher, the former head of the South African cricket board
who appointed Woolmer, said that the ex-England Test player was
the stand-out coach during his time in South Africa.


"During the five-year period that he was our coach between 1994
to 1999 he was unquestionably the outstanding coach in world
cricket. He was the most innovative, he was the most
progressive," said Bacher.


"He was the first to use technology -- laptops and video
recordings -- for his work. At the 1999 World Cup in England, we
were the best team and he was the coach. I am terribly saddened
by this news. I cannot believe it."


Woolmer, who became coach of Pakistan in 2004, continued to live
in Cape Town after leaving the Proteas.


His resignation in 1999 came after South Africa were knocked out
of the World Cup in England following a last-ball run-out of fast
bowler Allan Donald in a tied match against Australia.


Donald, who also played under Woolmer at English county side
Warwickshire, said his mentor had been the arch professional.


"He was a very, very close friend, actually more than as a
coach," he told the Cricinfo website.


"Bob was an extremely professional man, was an extremely soft
person, gave his life to cricket and probably paid for it."

