

Anti-war demonstrators readied for at least a thousand
candlelight vigils around the United States on Monday, day four
of protests demanding an end to the war in Iraq four years after
it began.


"We cannot send tens of thousands of exhausted, under-equipped
and unprepared troops into the middle of an Iraqi civil war,"
left-leaning organizer MoveOn.org said in a statement late
Sunday. It claimed that 1,100 vigils were planned around the
country.


Thousands of anti-war protesters took to New York's streets
Sunday, demanding US withdrawal of troops from Iraq, in a second
day of national rallies marking the fourth anniversary of the
war.


Organizers from the group United for Peace and Justice said
between 25,000 and 30,000 people marched in the rally, which came
a day after similar mass protests in Washington and Los Angeles.
Police did not estimate the turnout.


A colorful mixture of students, cyclists, Vietnam war veterans
and musicians marched through midtown Manhattan, drumming and
chanting slogans such as "Troops out now" and calling for
President George W. Bush to be impeached.


Waving placards reading "Drop Bush, Not Bombs," and "Four Years
Too Long," the crowds braved near-freezing temperatures as they
marched under clear skies down streets lined with piles of snow.


"This is not a strange, lefty movement. This is the voice of the
people," said actor Tim Robbins, a prominent and vocal critic of
the Iraq war, who was among those leading the march.


"American people want this war to end, so when are we going to
start listening to them?" he asked. "The main message is to stop
this immoral war."


But US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Sunday he was
generally happy with the Iraqi troop performance since the United
States began deploying its reinforcements which, with support
troops, will number more than 25,000.


"I would say that the Iraqis are meeting the commitments that
they have made to us, that they have made the appointments, the
troops that they have promised are showing up," Gates said.
"We're basically buying them time."


Conscientious objector Jose Vasquez, a US Army staff sergeant who
refused to be deployed to Iraq, said he believed the anti-war
movement was seeing renewed vigor with the weekend protests.


"If people are willing to listen to what the troops have to say,
they'll find that the military itself is turning against the war,
not unlike what happened during Vietnam," he said.


Besides groups as diverse as the Iraq Veterans Against The War
and the Granny Peace Brigade, families of those killed in Iraq or
those currently deployed there said it was time for the troops to
come home.


"I want the war to stop, I want everyone to come home. I don't
want to see people coming back hurt with brain injuries and
missing limbs," said one woman who gave her name only as Michelle
and whose brother was about to be deployed.


Along the route, the rally passed the offices of New York
Senators Hillary Clinton and Charles Schumer.


"We're telling our congressional representatives that the people
want them to stand up to Bush," said Leslie Kielson, the New York
coordinator for United for Peace and Justice.


"The troops must be brought home now, this war and occupation
must end, and it must end now," she pleaded.


A demonstration was also held Sunday in San Francisco, where
several thousand protesters carried anti-war banners and chanted
slogans during a march to the city's Civic Center.


The New York and San Francisco rallies followed the arrests late
Friday of about 100 people holding a vigil outside the White
House who ignored police orders to disperse in a protest
organized by Christian Peace Witness for Iraq.


On Saturday, thousands marched on the Pentagon, the Defense
Department's headquarters in Washington, demanding a US
withdrawal.


Among those at the rally was former US attorney general Ramsey
Clark, who called for Bush to be impeached over his handling of
the war.


A new opinion poll by Newsweek magazine released Saturday showed
the president's approval rating for his handling of the Iraq war
stood at a paltry 27 percent.


Meanwhile, 59 percent of those surveyed support Democratic
legislation to require the withdrawal of US troops by the fall of
2008.

