

Sri Lankan troops and Tamil Tiger rebels have fought fierce land
battles after government forces said they sank two ships
smuggling weapons for the guerrillas, the defence ministry said
Monday.


Elite commandos from a special police unit escaped a bomb attack
in the eastern district of Batticaloa on Monday morning, the
ministry said, adding that the roadside bomb had been aimed at a
foot patrol.


There were no casualties among the troops, the ministry said.


The Tigers also blew up two electricity transformers in
Batticaloa district on Monday, the ministry said.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) said Sri Lankan war
planes bombed rebel-held territory Monday, wounding four students
and their teacher in the district of Mullaitivu.


There was no immediate word from the defence ministry about air
attacks.


However, an intense ground battle broke out in Batticaloa
district Sunday leaving at least two soldiers dead and 13
wounded, military officials said.


The LTTE said they killed three soldiers and captured the bodies,
which were to be returned to military authorities through the Red
Cross.


"A team of Sri Lankan army troopers tried to advance from
Unnichchai jungles towards LTTE positions (in Batticaloa)," Tiger
spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said in a statement.


"Following a confrontation, the army troopers retreated leaving
behind three dead bodies and several weapons and military
materials."


The defence ministry in a statement said troops had caused "heavy
damages" to the Tigers and, in another confrontation in the same
district, killed four rebels, a military official said.


In a third clash, troops killed two Tiger rebels and suffered one
loss on Sunday evening, the defence ministry said.


The clashes came after the navy said it had sunk two cargo
vessels believed to be smuggling weapons and explosives for
Tigers. There was no immediate word from the Tamil Tigers about
the ships.


The navy carried out a similar attack on February 28 and sank an
identical craft off the island's southern coast, according to
defence authorities here.


Clashes between suspected Tamil Tiger ships and the Sri Lankan
navy have increased in recent months amid heavy fighting in the
island's northern and eastern regions.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
since December 2005 between government troops and rebels fighting
for an independent homeland for the Tamil minority.


The fighting comes despite a truce that has been in place, at
least on paper, since February 2002.

