

A group of NBA executives and scouts has descended on southern
China to watch top Chinese players Yi Jianlian and Wang Zhizhi
battle it out in the China Basketball Association finals.


Top officials from the Chicago Bulls, Philadelphia 76ers, Golden
State Warriors, Phoenix Suns and New Jersey Nets watched Wang's
Bayi Rockets dispatch Yi's Guangdong Tigers 94-89 in Sunday
night's opening game.


Their presence dominated Chinese press reports.


"We know that Yi Jianlian has declared himself eligible for this
year's draft, so we have come to watch him," Phoenix's vice
president of basketball operations, David Griffin, was quoted as
saying.


"There are a lot of good players in this match up that are worth
looking at," Griffin told the Basketball Pioneers newspaper.


Among them was seven-foot (2.12 meter) Wang, who played four
years in the NBA and had a superb game on Sunday, making 10 of
his 12 shots to score 22 points, while also grabbing eight
rebounds.


Most importantly, Wang scored 10 points in the fourth quarter,
sealing the away win for Bayi.


Despite being on the losing team, the 20-year-old Yi, also played
well, scoring 24 points and hauling in eight rebounds.


He brought the crowd to their feet in the first half, taking the
ball from the free throw line and soaring through defenders for a
spectacular two-handed dunk.


Among the biggest NBA names in Guangdong were Chicago Bulls
general manager John Paxson and former NBA great Chris Mullin,
now an executive with the Golden State Warriors.


However they refused to discuss the match with the press in
accordance with NBA rules.


NBA team officials are forbidden to publicly discuss possible
draft selections, or their opinions of players not in the league.


The seven-foot Yi is expected to be a top pick in June's NBA
draft and has long been touted as the best player to come out of
China since Yao Ming, the All-Star centre for the Houston
Rockets.


Since returning to China last year, Wang, 29, has dominated the
CBA, while becoming a key player with Yao and Yi on China's
national team that will play in next year's Beijing Olympic
Games.


Game two of the seven-match finals series is on Tuesday. The
Guangdong Tiges are the three-time defending champions.

