

Bank of Japan policymakers began a two-day meeting on interest
rates Monday but no change is expected this month after
February's quarter point rise, which was the first since July,
economists said.


They said BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui was likely to reiterate
Tuesday his comments from last month that the central bank would
continue to raise interest rates only gradually in light of
economic developments.


"Since this will be the first meeting after its recent rate hike,
we expect it to maintain its present policy without change,"
predicted Deutsche Bank economists Mikihiro Matsuoka and Seiji
Adachi.


Barclays Capital analyst Masuhisa Kobayashi said this week's BoJ
meeting was unlikely to attract much attention in the financial
markets, adding, "We expect a unanimous decision to leave rates
unchanged."


Analysts said that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's less powerful upper house of parliament may
mean that the BoJ's next increase in interest rates will not come
before the second half of 2007.


"It will be difficult for the bank to raise rates before the July
22 Upper House election," said Kobayashi.


"But we believe it would be a mistake to rule out (altogether)
the possibility of a hike in June or July," he added.


The Bank of Japan last month raised its key lending rate from
0.25 percent to 0.50 percent, its first hike since last July when
it ended over five years of virtually free credit.


The BoJ has faced political pressure not to raise interest rates
too quickly and with inflation still very subdued, the central
bank is expected to move cautiously with further monetary
tightening.


The Deutsche Bank economists said that the BoJ's monetary
tightening was contributing to a drop in global liquidity.


"We believe that the bank's latest tightening (last month) might
also hurt Japanese stocks for a brief period," they warned in a
research note.


"In this sense, the manner in which the bank's hawkish stance is
conveyed to the markets could be an important point in the coming
months," they added.

