

Grief replaced anger on the streets of Pakistan Monday as the
country reeled from the death of cricket coach Bob Woolmer a day
after the national team's humiliating exit from the World Cup.


On Sunday protesters in the city of Multan had shouted slogans
against Woolmer and skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq after Saturday's loss
to Ireland, while others in Hyderabad city reportedly held mock
burials for the team.


But by Monday supporters had changed their tune and were saying
that Woolmer's huge commitment -- and his disappointment about
the team's World Cup failure -- may have led to his death in
Jamaica at the age of 58.


"Bob Woolmer's death has saddened us. He took the responsibility
for the team's defeat very seriously and that led to his death,"
cricket fan Munir Akhtar Langah told AFP in Multan.


The president of Multan Cricket Club, Maulvi Sultan Alam Ansari,
said Woolmer was not responsible for Pakistan's defeats at the
World Cup and instead blamed internal politics.


"He was a very good coach and was recognised at international
level. He had no role in Pakistan's defeats. He performed his
duties with devotion and honesty," Ansari said.


Private television channels meanwhile deleted the vitriolic text
messages left by viewers on Sunday before news of Woolmer's death
had come through.


"We have deleted all the earler SMS and public reaction after
Woolmer's death," Ather Viqar Azeem, a producer for a sports
programme on HUM TV, told AFP.


"Pakistanis are emotional people," said Irfan Ahmed, a cricket
fan and a student of University of Karachi's Mass Communication
department.


"They were very angry at the weekend and were passing all kinds
of SMS messages against Woolmer and Inzi, but they have changed
their view within 24 hours," he said.


An earlier SMS message which spread like wildfire here said:
"Pakistan cricket has died. Maulana (prayer leader) Inzamam-ul-
Haq will lead the funeral prayers after Pakistan's last match on
March 21 against Zimbabwe."


Woolmer, a former England batsman, was largely treated with
goodwill in this cricket-obsessed Muslim nation of 150 million
people despite concerns about having a foreign coach.


However he began to come under fire after Pakistan's notorious
forfeit of the Oval Test against England last August, followed by
a doping scandal involving fast bowlers Shoaib Akhtar and
Mohammad Asif.


Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat
Aziz led tributes to him on Sunday night, quickly followed by
current and former players.


Former captain Javed Miandad, whom Woolmer replaced as coach in
2004, said he believed "Pakistan's shocking defeat against
Ireland has a lot to do with his death."


Former Pakistan capitan Asif Iqbal said Woolmer was so committed
to the Pakistani team that he could not take the shock of defeat.
"He was a very nice and humble person," he told ARY television.


In the city of Lahore, Humaira Waheed, a cricket fan and a
teacher for handicapped children, said Woolmer's death "confirms
he was committed to the Pakistani cricket team."


"Being a true coach, he could not bear the shameful defeat of his
team at the hands of Ireland and, as such, collapsed in his room.
However his death has made everyone sad in Pakistan."


Arsalan Rafiq, a medical doctor in Lahore, said that "noboody in
Pakistan will be happy at his death".


"His services for the Pakistani cricket team will be remembered
for a long time," Rafiq said.

