

Australia's Sydney FC will face a stern test of their AFC
Champions League credentials when they host Japanese champions
Urawa Red Diamonds in the second round of group matches on
Wednesday.


Sydney enjoyed a winning debut away to Shanghai Shenhua two weeks
ago but face another tough assignment against Urawa Reds, winners
of one of Asia's most competitive leagues.


Coach Branko Culina, installed after the sacking of former
England defender Terry Butcher, said he was expecting an
improvement despite the 2-1 win against Shanghai.


"We have about 40 percent of improvement left in us and even the
ones that played well will get better because of what we are
working on," Culina said.


"I was happy with the team but I looked at it afterwards and
thought, imagine how much better it will be when players X, Y and
Z reach their potential."


Adelaide United, beaten at home by China's Shandong Luneng last
time around, will expect to make amends when they face Dong Tam
Long An in Vietnam -- the club's first ever match on Asian soil.


Shanghai head to Indonesia to face Persik Kediri, Japan's
Kawasaki Frontale host Bangkok University and Chunnam Dragons
play Arema Malang in the other East Asian fixtures.


Al Ain, winners of the inaugural competition in 2003, travel to
Syria to face Al Ittihad and double semi-finalists Pakhtakor play
Al Kuwait away.


Last year's runners-up Al Karama are away to Neftchi of
Uzbekistan in Group C while Qatar's Al Sadd host Iraqi outfit Al
Najaf.


The competition has already been hit by controversy, with Iran's
Esteghlal Tehran thrown out for failing to submit their player
registration forms on time.


They will not be replaced and Group B now consists of just Uzbek
giants Pakhtakor, Al Kuwait and Al Hilal of Saudi Arabia.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors of South Korea have a bye to
the quarter- finals in September.


However, star midfielder Kim Hyeung-bum, who scored five goals in
last year's competition, is unlikely to start the knockout stages
after picking up serious knee-ligament damage in a K-League match
last week.


The group matches are played from March 7 to May 23, when the
competition pauses for the Asian Cup finals.


The winner rakes in 600,000 US dollars and earns a place in the
World Club Championships in December.

