

Iraqis are increasingly pessimistic about their future, according
to an opinion poll published on Monday as the nation battles to
curb relentless bloodshed four years on from the US-led invasion.


Highlighting the sectarian conflict that has seen Iraq slide
towards all-out civil war, gunmen on Monday killed three
civilians in attacks in the mainly Shiite town of Hilla, south of
Baghdad.


Another 14 Iraqis were killed and seven US troops were reported
dead on Sunday as the nation prepared to mark the fourth
anniversary on Tuesday of the US-led invasion that toppled Saddam
Hussein.


Estimates of civilian casualties since the United States
unleashed its firepower on Iraq on March 20, 2003, vary wildly
but the British website Iraq Body Count's figure of 58,800 is
among the more conservative.


Nearly 3,500 foreign troops -- most of them American -- have also
died.


According to an opinion poll commissioned by the BBC and US
broadcaster ABC News, Iraqis are feeling increasingly pessimistic
and insecure about their future.


Barely a quarter of respondents -- 26 percent -- said they felt
safe in their own neighbourhoods and 86 percent expressed concern
about someone in their household being a victim of violence.


About 78 percent opposed the presence of foreign forces and 69
percent said their presence made the security situation worse.


A BBC survey in November 2005 painted a much brighter picture,
with 71 percent saying things were good in their lives.


But since then, Iraq has been torn by a brutal sectarian conflict
that has left nearly two million people displaced in the country
and another 1.8 million refugees abroad.


But Iraqi and US officials maintain that the picture is not all
bad.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki insisted the sectarian killing had
come to an end, blaming the ongoing violence on Al-Qaeda.


"I would say that the sectarian killing is over," Maliki said in
comments to be broadcast on British television on Monday.


But he said Al-Qaeda was the "biggest threat" to Iraq and the
region.


"They are carrying out killings and crimes in Sunni areas in the
same way they target Shia areas... they have sick minds. They
believe that anyone who works for the government deserves to be
killed."


Bassen Ridha, a senior adviser to Maliki, also sought to
highlight the advances since the fall of Saddam, who was executed
in December for crimes against humanity during his brutal reign.


He noted the writing of an Iraqi constitution and the creation of
a government of national unity by an elected parliament -- with
25 percent of its members women -- as a good basis for progress.


"If you look at the history of mankind, every time you have a
change -- an overnight change -- this kind of bloodshed is
expected," he said.


"A vicious individual like Saddam was overthrown. We are making
efforts. There are good things," said Ridha.


"Number one: Now we have freedom. Every Iraqi can express his
wish without fear. In the old days he could not do that. Now we
have so many parties, so many newspapers, so many TV stations. In
Saddam's time only two TV stations.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates also said initial reports
emerging from the security crackdown launched in Baghdad in
February known as Operation Fardh al- Qanoon (Imposing Law) were
good.


"The way I would characterise it is, so far so good," Gates told
US television, but added that it was "very early" to make a more
definitive assessment.


About 90,000 US and Iraqi troops are patrolling the streets of
the capital to curb the daily car bombs and sectarian executions.


But in the United States, tens of thousands of anti-war
protestors have been marching on the streets of Washington, Los
Angeles and New York demanding the withdrawal of troops from
Iraq.


"We cannot send tens of thousands of exhausted, under-equipped
and unprepared troops into the middle of an Iraqi civil war,"
left-leaning organiser MoveOn.org said.


"American people want this war to end, so when are we going to
start listening to them?" asked actor Tim Robbins, a prominent
critic of the Iraq war. "The main message is to stop this immoral
war."

