

Malaysia's new king on Monday urged racial harmony among
Malaysians as the multi-ethnic country prepares to celebrate its
50th year of independence from British colonial rule.


In his maiden speech to parliament after being installed in
December, the country's thirteenth monarch, Tuanku Mizan Zainal
Abidin, warned racial strife could tear the country apart.


"Harmony among the people is the key to the success of the
country and the community. Without unity and harmony, the country
that we love will be broken apart and in the end, be destroyed by
hate," Tuanku Mizan said in his speech.


"All our efforts and the peace that we've built together for so
long would go to waste," he added.


Malaysia achieved independence from colonial rule in August 1957,
marking the birth of a multicultural nation.


However, the government has acknowledged there is growing
polarisation between the country's races, and is grappling with
sliding race relations.


"This year is most significant and important in the country's
history. This is because we will be celebrating the country's
50th independence anniversary," said Tuanku Mizan.


"This means that it has been 50 years that we have been free from
the rule of the colonialists who had weakened the spirit of the
people with their 'divide and rule' policy," he said.


Under colonial rule, the British promoted socioeconomic
segregation between the three main racial groups.


The majority Malays were then mainly involved in fishing and
agriculture, while minority ethnic Chinese and Indians were
initially brought in to work in the tin mines and rubber
plantations respectively.


Although politically dominant, the Malays still lag behind the
Chinese in economic terms despite positive discrimination
policies introduced in 1971.


In present day Malaysia, Malays make up 60 percent of the
population of some 27 million, compared to 26 percent ethnic
Chinese and eight percent ethnic Indians.


Tuanku Mizan, the sultan of eastern Terengganu state, became one
of Malaysia's youngest monarchs ever in December last year at the
age of 44.


There will be a formal coronation next month. The monarch has
largely ceremonial duties and acts on the advice of the cabinet.

