

Oil prices turned higher in Asian afternoon trade Monday, finding
support on strong gasoline (petrol) demand in the United States,
the world's biggest energy consumer, dealers said.


At 1:50 pm (0550 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in April, was up 14 cents to 57.25
dollars a barrel from 57.11 dollars in late US trades Friday.


Brent North Sea crude for May was up 30 cents to 60.60 dollars.


"We have just seen some fairly big falls last week because of
worries over the (US) economy ... there are still fears about the
market but gasoline (petrol) rebounded and this kept the market
strong," said Tony Nunan, energy risk manager for Mitsubishi Corp
in Tokyo.


"Gasoline rallied on Friday after Thursday's profit-taking ...
the momentum is carrying on from Friday," he said.


With winter drawing to a close, participants are increasingly
concerned about gasoline supplies ahead of the US peak driving
season in May. Over the past few weeks, US gasoline inventories
have been on the decline.


Nunan said oil prices would be heading higher on this lead.


Oil eased last week after the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) maintained its daily output target at 25.8
million barrels at its ministerial meeting in Vienna, arguing
that global supply levels are healthy.


"That outcome was widely anticipated ... if anything it's a
little bearish for the market because OPEC has not fully
implemented the full (previous) output cuts. The one thing that
is saving them is the cold weather in the US and that gasoline
demand is strong," Nunan said.


The 12-nation cartel cut production at its two previous meetings
in October and December. In its monthly report, OPEC said world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007, matching its
forecasts in January and February.


OPEC's only surprise was its announcement to meet in September,
skipping an expected June meeting, analysts said. The cartel said
its next meeting would be an ordinary session in Vienna on
September 11.


The move suggested "they are in no hurry to raise output again,"
said Tim Evans, a Citigroup analyst.

