

Fuel prices in Zimbabwe have skyrocketed by up to 200 percent in
the last fortnight amid fresh shortages brought on by inflation
and a devalued currency, analysts said Monday.


The rise in fuel prices, attributed by industry players to the
high cost of foreign currency needed to finance its importation,
has triggered a wave of increases in bus fares and commodities
across the country.


The increasing economic meltdown in Zimbabwe, with inflation now
standing at some 1,730 percent and four out of five people
unemployed, has helped fan the growing unrest towards veteran
President Robert Mugabe.


While fuel prices in the southern African country rise constantly
under an ever- increasing inflation rate, analysts say this rise
was nevertheless exceptional.


"This is one of the highest increases we have had in a long time
and it's a phenomenal rise," said Witness Chinyama, a Harare
based economist.


Urban and long distance transporters have hiked their fares by at
least 150 percent, and petrol is now sold at garages for 13,000
Zimbabwe dollars (52 US dollars) compared to 2,000 Zimbabwe
dollars in January.


Diesel now costs 15,000 Zimbabwe dollars a litre.


"There is a need to review the exchange rate in line with
inflation," Witness Chinyama, a Harare-based economist said.


"We are now one of the most expensive countries and our export
competitiveness is now being impaired by this artificial exchange
rate."


Since August last year, authorities have pegged the local unit at
250 Zimbabwe dollars to the United States dollar, yet in reality
it costs about 14,000 Zimbabwean dollars.


Although the official price of petrol and diesel is pegged at 335
and 320 Zimbabwe dollars respectively, no service station is
selling at that price as it is not viable.


"We can not sell petrol at the government price because it is not
economically viable," one fuel dealer said, refusing to be named.


Government last reviewed fuel prices last year.


Zimbabwe has faced serious fuel shortages since 1999, which the
government blames on sanctions imposed on President Robert Mugabe
and members of his inner circle at the time.


When the shortages are at their worst some gas stations go
without fuel for months, forcing buses and private cars off the
road and leaving many commuters no option but to walk or cycle to
their workplaces.

