

Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen retained power after
weekend elections but a shift from a centre-left to a centre-
right coalition looks likely after a stinging setback for his
government ally the Social Democrats.


Vanhanen, the head of the Centre Party which remained the biggest
formation in the country, was to hold talks Monday with the heads
of the conservative and Social Democratic parties before trying
to form a parliamentary majority.


"The discussions will be very difficult. The programme is the
most important," Vanhanen, 51, warned after Sunday's election.


The party leader talks are expected to last for several weeks,
with a new government due to be in place in mid-April.


Finland has since 2003 been governed by Vanhanen's Centre Party,
the Social Democrats and the tiny Swedish People's Party. Prior
to that, the country had two "rainbow coalitions" grouping the
Social Democrats and conservatives from 1995 until 2003.


On Sunday, the Centre won 23.1 percent of votes and 51 of the 200
seats in parliament, just ahead of the Conservatives who won 22.3
percent and 50 seats, with only 23,000 votes separating the two
parties.


The Social Democrats won 21.4 percent of votes and 45 seats.


In theory, the centre-left coalition could continue in power
since together they hold 110 seats.


But observers say that outcome would be highly unlikely, given
that the Social Democrats registered their worst election score
in 45 years and the conservatives posted one of their strongest
scores to end up in second place.


Maintaining the centre-left coalition "would not reflect the
change that took place in the election," editorialist Bjoern
Maansson of the Swedish-language daily Hufvudstadsbladet wrote.


"The election result is normal: the biggest opposition party
gains ground and the ruling parties lose ground. It's a typical
political scenario," he said.


The Social Democrats could be relegated to the opposition for the
first time since 1995.


Vanhanen, whose party lost four seats in parliament, acknowledged
that the election result was "a setback for the entire
government."


Helsinki University political scientist Tom Moring told AFP "it
would be pretty difficult to exclude the conservatives from
government."


But a shift from a centre-left to a centre-right alliance is not
expected to lead to any drastic changes in policy, as the three
main parties share a broad political consensus.


The conservatives, led by 35-year-old Jyrki Katainen, are strong
supporters of NATO, of which Finland is not a member, but the
party is not expected to push the issue due to weak public
support for membership.


Katainen, who took over the party leadership in 2004 after rising
quickly through the ranks, has no previous experience in
government.


The party's strong showing was ironically not attributed to
Katainen, but rather to the success of the hugely popular former
finance minister Sauli Niinistoe. Many conservative voters would
have preferred him as party leader, according to polls prior to
the election.


Niinistoe won a record 60,498 votes in his constituency and
almost one-tenth of the party's overall votes, more than any
other member of parliament.


Once it is formed, the new government will quickly have to deal
with some thorny issues.


Difficult wage negotiations are expected before next autumn
between employers' organisations and the powerful confederation
of trade unions SAK, a strong supporter of the Social Democrats.


Finland is the fourth Nordic country to switch to the right in a
recent election. Denmark, Iceland and Sweden all have
conservative or centre-right governments in power, while Norway
swung to the left in 2005 elections.

