

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will meet with her German
counterpart, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, and EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana on Monday for talks that may focus on ways to move
the stalled Middle East peace process forward.


The meeting comes as the United States is pressing the new
Palestinian government to meet key international demands, saying
it will deal with it if it agrees to forgo violence and fully
recognize Israel.


US national security adviser Stephen Hadley laid down that hard
line in remarks on US television Sunday, after Palestinian prime
minister Ismail Haniya, in a speech to parliament, insisted on
his new government's right to all forms of resistance, rejecting
a key international condition for acceptance.


"This government needs to renounce terror and violence," Hadley
told CNN Sunday. "It needs to acknowledge the right of Israel to
exist."


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said he had found reports coming
from the Palestinian government "disappointing."


"Initial reports coming from this national unity government seem
to be a little bit disappointing," Ban said in interview aired
late Sunday by the Voice of America.


The international Quartet, which includes, the United States,
Russia, the United Nations and the European Union, has recently
reiterated that the Palestinian government must recognize Israel,
accept previous agreements signed with it, and renounce violence
in order to see aid resumed.


"They have not clearly stated they will abide by these three
principles," Ban said of the Palestinians.


In Israel, a US embassy spokeswoman said the United States is
ready to work with members of the new Palestinian government who
are not from Hamas, which Washington considers a terrorist
outfit.


"Individuals who are not members of foreign terrorist
organizations but who do hold office in the unity government, we
do not rule out contact with those individuals," the spokeswoman
said.


Israel has called on the international community to uphold a
boycott of the entire government until it explicitly agrees to
international demands, including recognition of the Jewish state
and renunciation of violence.


Officials in Washington said however, they will maintain ties
with Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, of the Fatah faction,
despite his decision to share power with Hamas, a group
responsible for scores of suicide bombings.


Hadley said Haniya's remarks flouted the principles espoused by
the Quartet.


"We will not deal with this government until it accepts those
principles," he said.


The new Palestinian government will be a target of talks held by
Rice on a swing through the region in the coming week.


Rice is due to meet in Ramallah on March 24 with Abbas, who is
seen as a moderate with broad-based support in the West. She will
meet him again two days later in Amman, sources in Abbas's office
said Sunday.


Rice is also to head to Egypt on March 24 to meet with
representatives of the so-called Arab Quartet diplomatic group --
Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates --
Egypt's Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said Saturday, instead
of March 25 as he previously said.


She is also slated to meet Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has complained that the new
government's program falls short of previous Western demands for
a commitment to non-violence and recognition of the Jewish
state's right to exist and urged an international boycott.


The new Palestinian cabinet -- uniting long-time rivals Fatah and
Hamas -- met for the first time Sunday in Gaza City and by video
link in Ramallah, a day after Haniya presented his government's
program to parliament.


In that speech he included a vow to secure the release of
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit and to expand a truce in
the Gaza Strip.


However, Haniya -- a member of Hamas -- also proclaimed
Palestinians' right to all forms of resistance.

