

Singapore has developed a computer system capable of giving
authorities advance warning of potential security threats such as
terrorist attacks, officials said Monday.


The computerised Risk Assessment and Horizon Scanning (RAHS)
system enables analysts to sift through massive volumes of
information daily for hidden danger signals that will allow
authorities to act before disaster strikes.


Apart from potential militant attacks, the system can also sniff
early warning signs of a possible disease pandemic, natural
disaster or financial crisis.


Traditional scenario planning is inadequate to deal with complex
global threats, raising the need to develop more sophisticated
systems such as the RAHS, Singapore Deputy Prime Minister S.
Jayakumar said.


"While we cannot predict the future, we can develop more
intelligent systems and robust processes towards monitoring new
strategic trends and developments in order to anticipate a
diversity of possible outcomes," he told a symposium to discuss
the new system.


RAHS "can help us detect weak signals of major turning events
that could have a serious impact on Singapore," said Jayakumar,
who is also the coordinating minister for national security.


It can "help draw disparate pieces of information together to
alert analysts to potential crisis situations," he added.


One technology showcased during the symposium allows analysts to
determine the number of ships bound for Singapore from abroad and
extract data on each of them -- such as the owner, cargo, crew
and voyage details.


With the aid of technology, analysts can process the information
to check for any suspicious associations which would not be
obvious when each data is examined individually.


Officials in Singapore, one of the world's busiest container
ports, have previously warned of a possible seaborne version of
the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, when
militants used hijacked passenger planes to slam into the World
Trade Centre.


Peter Ho, permanent secretary for national security and
intelligence coordination, told reporters Singapore would
establish an RAHS experimentation centre in August to develop and
test new technologies for the system.


The centre would collaborate with the US Joint Forces Command and
the Singapore defence ministry on using RAHS to detect maritime
security risks, Ho said.


Singapore was open to getting other countries involved in the
future as the RAHS system was still evolving, Ho said.

