

India enjoys an unparalleled reputation as an outsourcing
destination for the high-tech sector and the diaspora of
homegrown computer programmers has long been transforming the
global economy.


But some European entrepreneurs are turning the globalisation
equation on its head, recognising India as a bold, hungry market
that is likely to assert itself in new ways and eclipse much of
the West in the coming years.


Employees of the German unit of outsourcing giant Hexaware now
spend months at a time living in India, taking a pay cut as they
draw an Indian salary and live in average Indian apartments to
get a taste of real life in the country.


"Our staff has to understand the culture and system in India. You
can't do that over the phone or a brief induction training
course," Gerrith Hermes, the CEO of Hexaware's German unit, told
AFP at the world's largest high-tech fair, the CeBIT.


"You need three or four months living and working in India to
begin to understand how people react there and why some
approaches work better than others."


Hexaware is an Indian company that employs some 150 people in
Germany -- a reversal of the standard globalisation set-up in
which Western companies cut costs by sending jobs to low-salary,
low-cost markets such as India.


Hermes says Hexaware's practice of sending its German staff to
India to watch and learn is less a quirk than a preview of
rapidly changing dynamics in the 21st century economy.


"I could well imagine that in the next few years German students
won't necessarily do internships at German companies but rather
go to India," he said.


"If I'm right and India remains an unbelievably important country
for the IT sector, in two or three years we are going to be
desperately seeking IT specialists with experience in India or
with Indian companies.


"The ones who are successful will say, 'I know how to work with
an Indian firm, I understand the problems that surface, I can
understand the language barrier, I know, culturally, why some
things work better than others.'"


The Indian government aims to achieve a "sustainable growth
trajectory" of around 10 percent annually by 2012 while its 1.1
billion population is one of the largest potential consumer
markets in the world.


Hermes said Germany in particular had been slow to realise that
it is no longer at the heart of the global economy and risks
slipping much further behind in the coming years unless it
adapts.


"The fact is that the vast majority of Germans or central
Europeans have not completely walked away from colonialist-type
thinking," he said.


"We've never learned to do that. When (Indian steel magnate)
Lakshmi Mittal buys the most expensive house in London, it is in
fact just one symbol among many."


Frank Woitag said he too had recently developed a new
appreciation for the importance of India.


Woitag is the founder and managing director of Stratos, a firm
specialising in travel planning software that is based in
Germany's economically depressed former communist east.


The mid-sized company was having financing problems until 2004
when it sought a technology partner in Extentia Information
Technology, a software developer and consulting company based in
the western Indian city of Pune.


"There was a steep learning curve for all of us but in the end
the best partner for us was 5,000 or 6,000 kilometers (3,100 or
3,700 miles) away," he said in the broad accent of his native
Saxony.


"We really had to adapt. None of us wanted to switch our working
language to English -- there was a lot of resistance and mistrust
in the beginning because it was such a colossal difference. But
now we are working with an Indian partner on an additional
project."


Anand Rahul, the head of the European business unit at Extentia,
said he believed his colleagues in Germany had also learned the
limits of what a foreign partner can offer.


"In Germany they think they can outsource a problem but that does
not work. This idea that they could send a defective programme to
us and we would fix it -- it was destined to fail. Everyone had
to do their homework," he said in flawless German.


"We sent a software architect to Germany and worked together to
develop a solution."


Woitag said that his company had long turned away business
because it did not have enough qualified personnel.


"We in Germany have made serious mistakes in the last 20 years of
education policy," he said, recalling that the IT and
telecommunications lobby reports that Germany lacks 20,000 high-
tech specialists.


"In India we found the qualified staff we needed."


Hermes said that Germany had been remarkably naive in 2000 when
it offered 20,000 "green cards" or work visas to Indian computer
engineers and expected them to beat down the door.


"It was obvious the Green Card programme would be a flop. Top
people go to the United States, Australia -- the language is
English, there are other Indians, the taxes are lower," he said.


"Or you could go to Germany, where people barely speak any
English, you earn 65,000 euros, pay 40-45 percent taxes and have
to count your blessings if you wear a turban or have dark skin
and don't get beaten up. Which country would you choose?


"That meant that the ones who came here were the ones who didn't
get jobs elsewhere."


The CeBIT runs through March 21.

