

The Zimbabwe government brushed off fresh criticism Monday over
its crackdown on the opposition Movement for Democratic Change,
dismissing it as further evidence of mischief-making by the West.


After a senior opposition figure trying to leave the country was
beaten so badly he he had to be hospitalised Sunday, the European
Union and United States issued strongly worded condemnations of
President Robert Mugabe's regime.


However Harare again accused its critics of stirring up trouble
with "mischievous" and "political" statements, as well as siding
with the opposition by failing to denounce attacks on the
security forces last week.


The government has already threatened ambassadors with expulsion
for interfering in Zimbabwean affairs.


"We find it disturbing in that we are not hearing anything on the
three women police officers who are struggling for their lives in
hospital and about three police officers who were badly beaten up
by the MDC," said junior information minister Bright Matonga.


"We have not heard anything, any comment even from their
ambassadors here. So really as a country we are not going to be
moved by that," he told AFP.


Matonga's comments came after the German presidency of the EU
expressed its outrage at Sunday's attack on MDC lawmaker Nelson
Chamisa who was picked up en route to the airport, from where he
was due to fly to Brussels.


Opposition colleagues said he had suffered serious injuries to
his head and one of his eyes and had to be hospitalised.


A statement from Berlin said: "The EU presidency was outraged and
deeply concerned by the news of the arrest and brutal treatment
of the opposition MP Nelson Chamisa."


The United States also said it would hold Mugabe personally
responsible for beatings sustained by opposition members.


"The United States condemns the government of Zimbabwe's
continued attacks on the political opposition, including
additional arrests, beatings and refusal to allow travel for
necessary medical treatment," said State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack.


"We hold President Mugabe personally responsible for these
actions, and call on him to allow all Zimbabweans the right to
live without fear and to fully participate in the political
process."


Chief MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai is currently recovering from
an assault at the hands of the security services last week who
arrested him and dozens of supporters as they tried to stage an
anti-government rally on March 11.


Although the activists were all later released, the head of an
MDC breakaway faction Arthur Mutambura and two other senior
officials were arrested when trying to fly out to South Africa on
Saturday.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has been steadily mounting amid an economic meltdown with
inflation standing at 1,730 percent and four out five people out
of work.


Mugabe however has remained defiant in the face of virulent
criticism, blaming the unrest on the MDC and its critics.


"We have given too much room to mischief-makers and shameless
stooges of the West," Mugabe said in a speech over the weekend.


"Let them and their masters know we shall brook none of their
lawless behaviour... A new violence, sponsored and directed by
our detractors has been trying to rear its ugly head." he said.


Tsvangirai however has identified the government's tactics as a
sign that its end is in sight.


"Things are bad, but I think this crisis has reached a tipping
point and we could be seeing the beginning of the end of this
dictatorship," Tsvangirai said in a BBC interview at the weekend.

