

Malaysia's struggling national carmaker Proton said Monday it
will open 10 sales and service centres in Indonesia as part of a
bid to win a share of the country's passenger vehicle market.


"We will open a total of 10 sales and service centres in
Indonesia in one year. Two will belong to Proton and the other
eight will be opened by dealers," Proton spokeswoman Faridah
Idris told AFP.


The first three Proton outlets were opened in Jakarta on
Saturday, she said.


Proton officially launched two models in the Indonesian capital
last week in its first foray into the market there, hoping to
boost sales of its cars amid sluggish sales at home.


"Over the next three years, we plan to achieve between 5 percent
to 10 percent of the Indonesian passenger car market," Proton
said in a statement released at the launch.


Proton's share of the Malaysian market has declined sharply in
the face of competition from foreign as well as local carmakers.


The carmaker in February posted its third consecutive quarter of
losses of 281.45 million ringgit (80.40 million dollars) in the
three months to December compared with a net profit of 86.51
million ringgit a year earlier.


The Malaysian government, as the single largest shareholder, is
under intense pressure to find a strategic partner for Proton.


Talks with French car giant PSA Peugeot-Citroen collapsed two
weeks ago but the government is still hopeful of securing a
foreign partner in Germany's Volkswagen AG.


VW's head of international sales told the Financial Times in an
interview Monday that it was close to reaching a deal to take
over Proton's manufacturing unit.


Second Finance Minister Nor Mohamed Yakcop said last week that a
partner for Proton will be named by the end of March.


He also said local auto concerns DRB-Hicom and the Naza Group had
expressed interest in tying up with Proton.


In a report over the weekend, The Edge financial weekly cited
unnamed sources as saying the government had decided to secure a
local partner for Proton, since the prospect of securing a
foreign partner was dimming.


Certain factions of the government are pushing for DRB-Hicom to
acquire a 32 percent stake in Proton, it said.


Proton's Faridah would not comment on the report.

