

Asian stocks closed sharply higher Monday, shrugging off losses
on Wall Street and another Chinese interest rate hike as
investors adjusted positions ahead of US and Japanese central
bank meetings, dealers said.


They said the Chinese rate increase, the third in less than a
year aimed at slowing growth, was widely expected after a series
of strong economic data.


Far from denting enthusiasm, however, mainland investors looked
instead at the likely inflow of funds into the yuan as a result
and put on nearly 3.0 percent, showing no fear the authorities
will return with tougher measures.


The lack of a local reaction to the news encouraged other
regional markets, even those such as Sydney, up 0.40 percent,
with companies such as miners directly dependent on Chinese
demand for raw materials.


The view was that the incremental tightening of monetary policy
in China will produce no shocks, allowing business largely as
normal barring any radical departures -- always a possibility but
less and less likely given the growing size and sophistication of
the Chinese economy.


Dealers said no one is expecting any rate changes from the
Japanese and US central banks but investors will want to hear
especially what the US Federal Reserve may have to say after
recent turbulence sparked by concerns at rising mortgage defaults
in a faltering housing market.


Problems in the US mortgage market, especially in the sub-prime
segment of riskier borrowers, hit sentiment badly last week and
investors want some clear guidance on the interest rate outlook.


TOKYO: Japanese stocks closed up 1.59 percent, ending above the
key 17,000 points level for the first time in almost a week as
investor confidence gradually returns after the recent rout,
dealers said.


They said sentiment was lifted by a strong performance by stock
markets in China where investors shrugged off the central bank's
latest interest rate hike aimed at keeping economic growth under
control.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 265.40 points to 17,009.55.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section advanced 17.02 points or 1.01 percent to 1,694.08.


Gainers beat decliners 1,015 to 582, with 134 stocks flat.


Volume dropped to 1.9 billion shares from 2.4 billion on Friday.


Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities, said support
had been stronger than expected.


"Although the upside was weighed down around the 17,000-point
level, share prices made strong gains considering the lacklustre
performance of US stock markets," he said.


"Sectors such as autos and high-techs -- which had come under
pressure because of the recent firmness of the yen -- gained,"
Mizutani said.


Investors were awaiting interest rate decisions this week by the
Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve although neither is
expected to announce any changes yet.


"The market is not likely to be affected by the Bank of Japan
this week as it is expected to keep its interest rates unchanged
and to repeat roughly what it said last month," said Ichiyoshi
Management fund manager Mitsushige Akino.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 1.65 percent higher led
by China Mobile and select blue chips on expectations that they
will post strong 2006 results this week, dealers said.


They said fresh talk of A-share listings on the mainland by some
Hong Kong- listed firms, including China Mobile and Bank of
Communications, also helped sentiment.


China's interest rate hike had a muted impact on the market as
the move had been largely expected after a series of strong
economic data, with the Chinese markets also posting sharp gains
to provide additional support for Hong Kong.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 313.24 points at 19,266.74, off a
low of 18,967.41 and just off the day's high of 19,267.83.
Turnover was 38 billion dollars (4.78 billion US).


"Fund inflows helped drive up China Mobile and other blue chips
amid hopes of strong results this week," said Conita Hung,
research head at Delta Asia Securities.


"Talk of A-share listings by major firms including China Mobile
is also supporting sentiment, offsetting the effect of the
interest rate hike" in China, she said.


The People's Bank of China said it raised interest rates by 27
basis points, taking the benchmark one-year bank deposit rate to
2.79 percent and the one-year lending rate to 6.39 percent.


Gains in China markets despite the hike in interest rates
encouraged buying of H-shares in Hong Kong, dealers said. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index closed up 112.30 points or 1.23
percent at 9,225.26.


China Mobile was up 2.35 dollars at 72.15 dollars ahead of its
full-year results on Wednesday. The company is also said to be
planning an A-share listing on the mainland.


SEOUL: South Korean shares closed sharply higher, extending gains
to a third day as banks rallied to help the benchmark KOSPI index
rise past 1,440 points, dealers said.


Initial sentiment was cautious after Wall Street's Friday retreat
and China's rate-tightening but the market rebounded on foreign
investor support, with some looking to the US Federal Reserve to
ease monetary policy sooner rather than later in view of weakness
in the key US housing market.


The KOSPI index ended up 15.51 points or 1.09 percent at
1,443.39, off a high of 1,444.76 and a low of 1,430.36. Volume
was 276 million shares worth 2.8 trillion won (2.97 billion
dollars). Rises led falls 528 to 230, with 12 stocks unchanged.


"Banks were at the forefront of today's rally," said Daewoo
Securities analyst Kim Seong-Ju.


Kim said investors were encouraged by a strong regional
performance despite the latest hike in Chinese interest rates,
which was easily absorbed.


"The impending US (Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting) will
set a clearer course for the market by clarifying the severity of
the housing slump and its impact on the US economy," Kim added.


Markets were roiled last week by news of a sharp rise in defaults
on US mortgages, suggesting there could be more problems to come
if borrowers run into more problems, so jeopardising consumer
demand.


If that was the case, the Federal Reserve might cut interest
rates sooner rather than later to keep the economy going although
it would also have to balance the need to keep inflation in check
at the same time.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.23 percent higher, led by
makers of thin- film-transistor liquid crystal display panels
which attracted interest on expectations of an imminent bottoming
out of the industry, dealers said.


They said Wall Street's modest losses Friday were largely ignored
but investors were largely on hold ahead of the US Federal
Reserve's two-day policy board meeting which ends Wednesday.


Most expect the Fed to leave rates on hold but will be want to
hear what the US central bank has to say about the economic
outlook after concerns about a weakening US housing market roiled
the markets last week.


Another increase in Chinese interest rates had little impact,
with mainland markets rising sharply after a move that was
broadly anticpated.


Construction stocks were boosted by a report that Richard Li,
chairman of Hong Kong's PCCW, made a fact-finding tour of central
Taiwan's property market over the weekend, but the gains were
trimmed by profit-taking in late trade.


The weighted index closed up 17.66 points at 7,737.46, off a low
of 7,713.78 and a high of 7,759.66, on turnover of 94.49 billion
dollars (2.85 billion US).


Risers led decliners 569 to 503, with 229 stocks unchanged.


"Shares largely traded sideways as investors awaited more
definitive signs from the international markets, particularly on
the (US) Fed's rate decision this week," Mega International
Investment Services assistant vice president Alex Huang said.


Caution was reflected by investor reluctance to push the
construction sector much higher, giving way to profit-taking
after initial gains fueled by Richard Li's visit, he said.


Accompanied by a group of executives with PCCW and Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Ltd, the son of Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing arrived
in Taiwan on Saturday and met several central Taiwan property
developers, the Economic Daily News said.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices closed sharply higher, adding 2.87
percent as investors shrugged off the central bank's latest
interest rate hike aimed at cooling the relentless pace of
economic growth, dealers said.


They said prices recovered early losses on confidence that the
central bank's move on Saturday to raise key interest rates will
not have a big impact on liquidity due to a stronger currency and
expected strong exports.


The central bank hiked rates by 0.27 percentage points to put one
year deposit accounts at 2.79 percent and one-year lending at
6.39 percent in a move it described as aiming to stabilise
prices.


The release of a slew of strong data last week including key
indicators such as inflation and industrial output all pointed to
the likely acceleration of economic growth, already at 10.7
percent in 2006, and investors had been expecting the authorities
to take some fresh measures to cool things down.


Gains in the yuan, however, are expected to attract even more
funds into China and in a market with already very heavy turnover
levels of around 18 billion dollars, that promises more
liquidity, rather than less.


Previous rate hikes and other moves to curb liquidity have all
failed to have had anything more than small passing effect.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 83.96 points to surge past the key 3,000 points
barrier, closing at 3,014.44 on turnover of 94.82 billion yuan
(12.23 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 88.63 points or 2.88 percent at
3,167.72 on turnover of 94.36 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index was up 10.03 points or 1.24 percent at 818.80 on
turnover of 46.19 billion yuan.


"It's not that surprising that the market closed higher after the
interest rate hike because it did so for the two previous
interest rate hikes last year," Jiang Fan, an analyst at Soochow
Securities said.


Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo Consulting said "fresh money came
in in search of bargains after the market opened sharply lower on
the interest rate hike news."


"Furthermore, the interest rate hike will help accelerate the
yuan's appreciation, resulting in more fund inflows to the stock
market," Wang said.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed 0.40 percent higher as
merger and acquisition activity in the financial sector dominated
trade, dealers said.


Despite losses on Wall Street Friday and another hike in Chinese
interest rates, regional markets showed little reaction Monday.


Dealers said they did not expect any immediate adverse impact on
Chinese demand for Australian commodities to result from
Beijing's latest effort to cool its fast growing economy, a major
customer for resources of all kinds.


Interest focused on the Bank of Queensland's proposed merger with
fellow regional Bendigo Bank to create an institution worth more
than 4.0 billion dollars, with other financials attracting
attention as a result.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 23.4 points to close at
5,859.7 while the broader All Ordinaries gained 21.5 points to
5,839.3.


Turnover was 1.19 billion shares worth 4.43 billion dollars (3.52
billion US), with falls outnumbering rises 610 to 572 and 368
stocks unchanged.


"Merger and acquisition is clearly back on the agenda with Bank
of Queensland's bid for Bendigo starting the ball rolling," Bell
Potter Securities private investment advisor Stuart Smith said.


Speculation about further consolidation in the financial sector
was heightened by comments from SunCorp-Metway over the weekend
that it could be on the lookout for more acquisitions following
its 7.9 billion dollar takeover of general insurer Promina,
dealers said.


Bendigo Bank shares jumped 3.84 dollars or 29 percent to 17.05
dollars while Bank of Queensland eased 0.01 to 16.59. Suncorp-
Metway gained 0.59 to 21.55.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 1.46 percent higher, led
by property stocks as investors shrugged off market jitters over
a build-up in US inflation and another Chinese rate hike, dealers
said.


The Straits Times Index rose 44.64 points at 3,113.39. Turnover
was 1.07 billion shares worth 1.09 billion dollars (720 million
US). Gainers outnumbered losers 431 to 239, with 727 stocks
unchanged.


Dealers said investors were likely to adopt a "wait-and-see"
approach ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on US interest
rates on Wednesday.


"We have just recovered from a fall and for the market to pick up
substantially (it) will take a few weeks more," said Gabriel Yap,
senior dealing director at DMG Partners Securities.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 0.85 percent higher,
led by gains in conglomerate Genting after it announced a
subsidiary will sell its paper and packaging business, dealers
said.


They said that in line with firmer regional markets, local
investors showed little reaction to another Chinese hike in
interest rates over the weekend.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index gained 10.02 points to 1,192.22.
Volume was 937.2 million shares worth 1.5 billion ringgit (4307
million dollars). Gainers led losers 471 to 336, with 286 stocks
unchanged.


Other blue chips benefited from positive sentiment on Genting,
dealers said, adding that expectations of more favorable
announcements during a major investment forum starting Wednesday
also provided support to the market.


The gains, however, seemed tentative. Kaladher Govindan, head of
research at TA Securities, said his house continues to hold the
view that investors should "sell on rallies" for now.


"We need more positive news to come by" before the market stages
a serious recovery, he said.


Genting rose 2.00 ringgit to 38.25 as the market welcomed an
announcement that it will sell its paper and packaging business
to Paperbox Holdings for 745 million ringgit cash.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.28 percent lower as investors
stayed on the sidelines amid concerns about Thailand's economy
and ahead of key interest rate meetings overseas, dealers said.


They said investors were awaiting the outcome of monetary policy
meetings at the Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve on
Tuesday and Wednesday respectively.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index fell 1.91
points to 669.14 while the blue-chip SET 50 index lost 1.50
points to 467.92.


Losers overwhelmed gainers 203 to 97, with 127 stocks unchanged
on turnover of 1.5 billion shares worth 6.0 billion baht (175
million dollars).


"Foreign investors delayed decisions amid concern over the
country's economic situation," said Veerachai Krongsamsri from
Far East Securities.


He said investors were also awaiting the outcome of the Bank of
Japan's rate- setting meeting on Tuesday and the US Federal
Reserve meeting on Wednesday.


"They are waiting for the annoucements to see what the trend will
be," he said.


The meeting in Tokyo was not expected to produce a change in
interest rates while there have been more conflicting signals
coming from the Fed in light of concerns about the slowdown in
the US housing market.


JAKARTA: Closed for a public holiday


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 0.68 percent lower as
caution prevailed ahead of the meeting this week of the rate-
setting US Federal Open Market Committee, dealers said.


They said investors were waiting for a clear lead after recent
turbulence sparked by fresh concerns over the US economic
outlook, with the Federal Reserve meeting potentially a key
marker.


The composite index shed 20.87 points to 3,041.38 after trading
between 3,035.66 and 3,065.03. Declines led gains 53 to 44 with
57 stocks unchanged,


Turnover was 3.2 billion shares worth 4.5 billion pesos (92.14
million dollars).


"We don't have any good news to digest at the moment and, at the
same time, there's caution ahead of the Fed decision on interest
rates," said Harry Liu of Summit Securities.


US stocks fell Friday amid receding hopes of a Federal Reserve
rate cut this week following stronger-than-expected US inflation
data for February. The FOMC meets Tuesday and Wednesday.


"At any rate, this is just part of the market consolidation that
we have anticipated and we've been saying that a drop to as low
as 2,900 points is still a welcome correction," Liu said.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.31 percent higher
in light trade as investors took heart from gains in the
Australian market, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index rose 12.71 points to 4,050.31 on
turnover of 96.0 million dollars (67 million US).


"Investors remain a little bit wary (after) the volatility of the
last week or two," said ABN Amro Craigs Nigel Scott.


The market remained cautious after two rounds of heavy losses
this month and amid fresh questions over the direction of local
interest rates, following the recent quarter percentage point
rise, he said.


Telecom rose one cent to 4.63 dollars as investors waited for
news on the sale of the yellow pages directories business and the
appointment of a new chief executive.

