

Bahraini liberals are scrambling to defend freedom of expression
after the Islamist-dominated parliament voted to investigate a
cultural festival for alleged breach of Muslim morality.


"This is a dangerous precedent that will take us back to the
Middle Ages and the Inquisition," said theatre director Khaled
al-Roueie.


"We're at the point of resorting to the government to protect us
from the people's representatives."


Sunni and Shiite Islamists who control three-quarters of the 40
seats in parliament voted last week in favour of a motion to set
up a commission of inquiry into the "Spring of Culture" festival,
which runs in the small Gulf kingdom until mid-April.


Twenty-nine MPs backed the motion, charging that the festival,
which is a joint venture between the government and private
firms, violates Islamic morals.


They singled out a musical on a love story written by Bahraini
poet Qassem Haddad, with a score from Lebanese composer Marcel
Khalifeh.


"The 'Spring of Culture' featured a play with scenes that arouse
(sexual) instincts and encourage debauchery," complained Sunni
preacher Sheikh Ali Matar in a prayer sermon last week.


"The 'Spring of Culture' is an open invitation to seduction under
the guise of love in defiance of this country's religion, taboos
and values," echoed leading Shiite cleric Sheikh Issa Qassem.


Bahrain has traditionally been relatively liberal by the
standards of the conservative Gulf and activists vowed to fight
back to defend their hard-won freedoms.


"We have resolved to wage a battle to defend freedom of
expression and creativity, and we will mobilise all intellectuals
and artists to confront this precedent, which risks undermining
our liberties," said Ibrahim Bu Hindi, who heads an authors'
association.


The appointed upper house of parliament "must initiate a debate
with the government with a view to reaching an agreement on
safeguarding freedom of creativity and belief," he told AFP.


Businessman and political activist Adel Fakhro said parliament's
unprecedented move to "put culture on trial" could usher in "a
very dangerous situation in which personal freedoms are subject
to the approval of parliamentary committees."


The Bahraini press has joined the fray, running editorials and
interviews with thinkers and artists describing parliament's move
as an attempt to "gag" citizens.


"Sirs, who appointed you guardians of the people?" Akhbar Al-
Khaleej editor Anwar Abdul Rahman asked Islamist lawmakers in a
leader comment Saturday.


"If you insist on acting as guardians of the people and
substituting yourselves for them in everything, including freedom
of belief, then you would be pushing them to a state of
unconsciousness or torpor from which they will never wake up," he
wrote.


Parliament is due to name the members of the commission of
inquiry on Tuesday but speaker Khalifa al-Dhahrani said there was
a possibility that MPs might yet go back on their decision.


There were "indications" that MPs would "reconsider", Dhahrani,
an independent backed by Sunni Islamists, told the Al-Watan
newspaper on Sunday.


Sunni Islamists, who are close to the government, had already
been agitating in the previous parliament for a clampdown on
entertainment deemed to violate Islamic tenets.


Three years ago, they forced the Saudi-owned MBC satellite
television channel to suspend the production of an Arabic version
of the reality TV show Big Brother that was being filmed in
Bahrain, charging that the show flouted Islamic traditions.


Opposition Shiite Islamists entered parliament in 2006 elections.

