

China announced Monday it had approved a plan to build large
passenger aircraft which analysts said could take on Boeing and
Airbus, not just at home but eventually on the world market.


The State Council, or Cabinet, made the decision at a meeting
presided over by Premier Wen Jiabao after listening to details of
a feasibility study on the project, the government said in a
statement posted on its website.


The plan is to "design and build airplanes that can carry more
than 150 passengers and compete with Airbus and Boeing," the
state-run China Daily said in a report.


Initial estimates showed research and development would cost
between 50 and 60 billion yuan (6.5 billion and 7.7 billion
dollars), the Harbin Daily newspaper said in a report, providing
no source.


The China Daily characterised the move into big-ticket airplane
manufacturing as "a major strategic decision" and said the
project would begin "as soon as possible."


In the statement, the Cabinet also said it had approved a plan to
set up a company to make large aircraft.


The Cabinet meeting was held on February 26. It did not explain
why it took three weeks to announce the decision to the public.


The statement reinforced China's role as a possible entrant into
what is effectively a global duopoly shared by US-based Boeing
and Airbus of Europe.


Even if challenging the two western behemoths -- something Russia
is reportedly also trying to do -- might seem over-ambitious,
local experts said China could pull it off.


Given enough resources and a healthy dose of official commitment,
China could probably produce a large plane, not just for the
domestic market but for exports as well, they argued.


"We have experience developing military planes," said Cao
Huiling, a professor of aeronautical engineering at the Civil
Aviation University of China.


"The budget is not a problem if the government wants to make the
project successful.


"I expect the plane will be sold in domestic markets first, and
then be exported overseas. If we produce it, we will try to make
it to the same standard as Boeing or Airbus."


However experts said it would be a long journey before large
Chinese passenger jets took to the skies and China must be
prepared to import key parts from abroad.


"It will probably take at least three years to start this
program," said Cao. "There are lots of difficulties."


China's experience has so far been limited to manufacturing
smaller, regional aircraft, with the ARJ-21 of up to 105 seats
expected to begin delivery in 2009, according to state media.


Observers have said, however, that a new Airbus assembly plant
for its A320 jets now under construction near Beijing could be
one stepping stone towards obtaining greater technological
knowhow in the segment for larger planes.


There have also been previous, scattered indications in public
statements and state-run media reports about China's growing
aviation ambitions.


China Aviation Corp I, a major aerospace company, said this month
it was looking to develop a new generation of aircraft engines to
reduce its reliance on foreign manufacturers.


"As a country with a huge demand for large-sized planes, it is
absolutely unimaginable to rely on imports of aero-engines for
long," Liu Daxiang, the company's deputy chief of science and
technology, told the China Daily.


Airbus estimates China will need 2,650 passenger planes from 2006
to 2025.


This forecast comes on the back of impressive growth rates in
civil aviation in China, fueled by an economy that expanded by
10.7 percent last year.


About 160 million passengers flew on Chinese airlines during
2006, a rise of 15 percent on the previous year, according to
previously released official statistics.

