

The Thai government on Monday declared an environmental emergency
in two northern provinces including tourist hotspot Chiang Mai
after a choking haze caused by forest fires worsened.


Official figures showed that air quality in Chiang Mai and Mae
Hong Son provinces was still at unhealthy levels despite a
general improvement across the northern region over the past few
days.


Deputy prime minister Paiboon Wattanasiritham said the
environmental emergency would allow authorities to evacuate
villages if needed and impose drastic measures to stop farmers
burning forest and farm materials.


"Villagers are still burning forests in the provinces, meaning
the haze problem is not improving," said Paiboon, adding that
expected rains in the next few days could also help disperse the
haze.


Some five million people in eight provinces have spent weeks
blanketed in smoke caused by forest fires, slash and burn
agriculture and unusual weather patterns in northern Thailand and
neighbouring Myanmar and Laos.


Air quality is measured in micrograms of particles of matter per
cubic metre, with 120 considered unhealthy, and 300 considered
dangerous.


Chiang Mai province, one of Thailand's most popular tourist
destinations, recorded air quality of 196 on Monday. This was
down from last week, when air quality in there hit the hazardous
level of 382.7 on Wednesday.


Mae Hong Son on Monday reported levels of 284, while Chiang Rai
province, where local authorities last week declared a province-
wide disaster zone, recorded 201.


Tourism officials have warned that the haze could have a serious
impact on tourism in the region, but Paiboon said health was top
of their agenda, with thousands of people seeking treatment for
haze-related conditions.


"The health of the people is our major concern, while the impact
on tourism can be cured later," Paiboon said.


"The number of tourist arrivals has decreased, but if we can
solve the haze, Thailand can ensure confidence in tourists in the
long-term."

