

The BBC appealed on Monday for help to find a British
correspondent kidnapped at gunpoint in the Gaza Strip a week ago,
saying it was increasingly concerned for his well-being.


Alan Johnston, the London-based broadcaster's main correspondent
in Gaza, was forced from his car by gunmen while driving home
from work on March 12. There has been no information on his
whereabouts since.


"We call on everyone with influence on this situation... it is
time to redouble our efforts, all of us, now that Alan has been
missing for more than a week," BBC Middle East bureau chief Simon
Wilson told a press conference in Gaza City.


"Although we have not been able to establish exactly what has
happened to Alan, it seems certain that he has been abducted and
is being held somewhere in the Gaza Strip," the BBC said in a
statement released in London.


"As time passes, we are growing increasingly concerned about
Alan's safety," it said.


"Over the past week, we have worked intensively with the
authorities in Gaza and elsewhere to try to locate Alan and we
continue to receive assurances that everything possible is being
done.


"It is disappointing that, after seven days, there has still been
no firm word either about his whereabouts or his condition," it
said.


The 44-year-old Johnston, an experienced reporter whose previous
postings have included Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, has been
reporting for the BBC from Gaza for three years, one of the few
Western journalists to be based in the increasingly lawless
territory.


Both Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and the Islamist Hamas
movement, the majority party in the new unity government, have
condemned the abduction, the latest in a spate of kidnappings
that has seen around 20 foreigners seized over the past year.


Hostages are normally used as bargaining chips to gain
concessions from the Palestinian Authority and so far all have
been released unharmed.


The last foreigner to be abducted in Gaza was AFP photographer
Jaime Razuri of Peru, who was snatched outside the news agency's
offices in Gaza City on January 1 and released unharmed a week
later.


The longest captivity so far endured by foreign hostages in Gaza
was the two week ordeal last August of two journalists for the
US-based Fox News television network.

