

Malaysia on Monday said it will not tighten security at its
border with southern Thailand despite worsening sectarian
tensions involving its neighbour and a report Thai Muslims had
fled to Malaysia.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak described the situation in
insurgency-hit southern Thailand as "not worrying", and said
Malaysia had adequate forces at its border.


"We have enough soldiers and policemen to handle the situation,"
Najib, also defence minister, told reporters.


"We are of course ever ready to assist, to help them in any way
that they would like us to. But as far as the border situation is
concerned, it's under control," he said.


A report over the weekend said a group of 24 Muslims from
Thailand's mostly Muslim southern provinces had fled to Malaysia
to escape alleged intimidation by the Thai military.


Another group of 130 Thai Muslims are already sheltering in
majority Muslim Malaysia after fleeing over the border in 2005,
an incident which led to a diplomatic tussle between the two
countries over their fate.


Najib said he could not confirm the latest report about the 24
Thai Muslims, and warned against speculation.


"We have to establish the facts first. There are a lot of
speculative reports and sometimes statements are made without any
basis," he said.


Thailand and Malaysia agreed last month to boost cooperation in a
bid to end three years of separatist unrest in the south of the
majority Buddhist kingdom.


In the latest spate of violence, suspected Islamic separatists
shot dead three Buddhists Monday in Thailand's south, while two
Muslim boys were killed in an attack on an Islamic boarding
school over the weekend.


Malaysia's Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar said separately
Monday that he would be discussing the violence in southern
Thailand with his Thai counterpart Nitya Pibulsonggram, who is
due in Malaysia on Thursday.


"The main topic is how we can work together in order to see
whether we could be of help in any way," Syed Hamid told
reporters.


"We will discuss about creating a stable environment in that area
and what type of activities we can do together in terms of
economic development," he said.

