

Egypt's parliament is set to approve wide-ranging constitutional
amendments that the opposition has branded a wholesale attack on
democracy under the guise of fighting terrorism.


The ruling party-dominated chamber is expected on Tuesday to
rubber stamp amendments to 34 articles proposed by President
Hosni Mubarak before they are put to a popular referendum on
April 4.


Mubarak last year promised the "biggest and widest constitutional
amendments since 1980" as part of the democratic reform he vowed
would be the centrepiece of his fifth term in office.


The government says the changes will enhance democracy by
strengthening the role of political parties in the political
process, and combat terrorism.


But London-based rights group Amnesty International on Saturday
said they represented the "greatest erosion of human rights in 26
years."


About 100 members of the opposition, mostly Islamists, staged a
walkout from the debate and have condemned the amendments as an
attempt to enshrine a quarter century-old state of emergency into
the constitution.


Critics also say the amendments are designed to pre-empt any
further gains by the opposition and pave the way for Mubarak's
son Gamal to take over the reins of power.


The amendment of Article 179 has come in for particular criticism
since it would allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts in
terrorism cases.


The change to Article 88 governing elections is also
controversial because it repeals the judicial supervision of the
ballot boxes credited by the opposition for their gains in recent
elections.


Instead, under the amended article, elections will be supervised
by an ill- defined "supreme independent council" that will
probably be appointed by the government.


Egypt's independent-minded judiciary repeatedly clashed with the
state following accusations by the judges of attempts to rig
legislative and presidential elections in 2005.


"These amendments are the death knell for democracy," said Nasser
Amin, director of the Arab Centre for the Independence of the
Judiciary. "The regime is opting for gangland tactics than the
politics of state."


The Egyptian government, however, maintains that the measures are
necessary in the battle against international terrorism and are
already being used by Western democracies.


"It is totally wrong to say that Article 179 gives unlimited
power to the police," said Ali Eddin Hilal, spokesman for
Mubarak's ruling National Democratic Party. "That's only true in
the case of terrorism, as is the case in many other countries
like Great Britain and the United States."


But the crucial difference between Egypt and the Western nations
in this case, maintained Amin, "is that in democracies, these
powers are the exception, while here they are being included in
the constitution."


Parliament speaker Fathi Surur argued that sacrifices had to be
made in the interests of security in Egypt, which remains under a
state of emergency imposed after the assassination of president
Anwar Sadat in 1981.


"It is sometimes necessary to sacrifice -- within certain limits
-- rights and liberties to protect security and public order," he
told the government daily Al-Akhbar on Sunday.


By Sunday, parliament had already approved 13 of the amended
articles, including one forbidding the founding of political
parties based on religion -- widely seen as a direct attack on
the powerful Muslim Brotherhood.


In contrast to the weak legal opposition parties that have around
half a dozen seats between them, independents running under the
Brotherhood banner took 88 of parliament's 454 seats in 2005
elections.


"The texts will be different, but the goal is always the same:
exclude all opposition to guarantee the continuation of the
regime," Brotherhood spokesman Issam al-Aryan said.

