

Japan's Sanyo Electric, under investigation for alleged
accounting irregularities, announced Monday the resignation of
its chairwoman Tomoyo Nonaka, one of Japan's highest-profile
female executives.


The company said in a statement that Nonaka had resigned for
personal reasons but local media reports said she had stepped
down because of the Sanyo board's refusal to fully probe
suspected window dressing of its figures.


Nonaka, a former television anchorwoman who also holds the role
of chief executive, submitted her resignation after her calls for
a full in-house investigation were rejected by the board, the
Nikkei business daily said.


Sanyo said last month that it would review its past earnings and
might correct its unconsolidated results for the four financial
years up to March 2004, after Japan's securities watchdog
launched a probe into its accounts.


According to earlier media reports, the company is suspected of
underestimating 190 billion yen (1.62 billion dollars) in
unconsolidated losses on its stockholdings in subsidiaries for
the business year to March 2004, postponing the write-down of
most of the losses.


Sanyo spokesman Akihiko Oiwa denied that Nonaka had quit because
of disagreement over how to respond to the window dressing
allegations.


"I don't think it was the direct cause of her resignation. She
and the board members must have agreed on the policy to launch an
in-house investigation panel," Oiwa said.


The Osaka-based firm has been accelerating its restructuring with
thousands of job cuts as part of efforts to revive its flagging
fortunes.


Sanyo, which began in 1947 making bicycle lamps, shocked many in
2005 when it brought in Nonaka, a former journalist with no
experience in corporate management, to become its new chairwoman
and chief executive.


Soon after, the electronics maker announced plans to cut 15
percent of its workforce or roughly 14,000 jobs over three years
and refocus on eco-friendly technology, with Nonaka pledging to
"listen to the Earth's voice."


Nonaka is one of just a handful of top female company executives
at major companies in Japan where boardrooms are still a male
dominated domain.

