

India is to post 3,000 more security personnel along its unfenced
border with Bhutan to plug gaps that allow rebels from India to
freely slip across the frontier, an official said Monday.


The new deployment will increase the number of Indian personnel
along the 643 kilometre (400 mile) border with the tiny Himalayan
Kingdom to about 12,000.


"The decision to raise the strength of personnel ... was taken
after Indian Home Secretary V.K. Duggal met the king of Bhutan,
the country's prime minister and other officials over the weekend
in Thimphu," said the intelligence official, who wished to remain
unnamed.


It followed fresh reports of rebels from India's northeast and
West Bengal states trying to set up bases inside Bhutan.


Bhutan launched a military operation to evict the rebels in
December 2003  and said it had smashed up to 30 camps, ousting
the militants.


India says many of its northeastern rebel groups including the
outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) and the Kamatapur
Liberation Organization that operates in West Bengal, have camps
in neighbouring countries -- Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar.


"Both sides agreed to do our best to ensure border peace and
maintain (a) vigil so that no untoward movement takes place into
Bhutan," Duggal was quoted as saying by Bhutan's national
newspaper Kuensel.


Indian intelligence officials say ULFA, which has been fighting
for an independent homeland since 1979, were on the lookout for
safe havens in Bhutan after Myanmar launched a crackdown against
their camps.


"There is pressure mounting on the ULFA inside Myanmar... the
militants might once again try to sneak into Bhutan and hence the
stepped up vigil ...," the intelligence official said.


India and Bhutan have also agreed to set up an intelligence
exchange mechanism.


"In case any unwarranted movement is noticed ... we will have
this system in place which will allow us to exchange the
information instantly rather than after a period of time," Duggal
was also quoted as saying.

