

India promised Monday to "refine" its controversial policy to set
up special economic zones, a week after 14 people trying to stop
the compulsory purchase of their land were killed by police.


"The SEZ policy will be refined in consultation with the state
government, the farmers who own the land and industrialists,"
federal Home Minister Shivraj Patil was quoted as saying by the
Press Trust of India.


Protesters in Nandigram -- a village 120 kilometres (75 miles)
south of Kolkata in eastern India -- were killed Wednesday when
police opened fire in the bloodiest demonstration yet against
state government plans to buy land to set up the zones.


The shooting deaths led to a one-day general strike in the
communist-ruled state of West Bengal where Nandigram, the
proposed site for a chemical industry hub backed by Indonesia's
Salim group, is located.


Patil told reporters that the federal government has an "open
mind" on the policy of setting up SEZs. The comments suggest the
policy will undergo more consultations but will not be reversed
in the light of the protests.


The zones are meant to be privately run enclaves with world-class
infrastructure and tax breaks to attract foreign investment.


The West Bengal government last week ordered police to break a
blockade by villagers at Nandigram which had been a no-go area
for authorities since 11 people died in protests there against
SEZs in January.


The unrest in January led the federal government to suspend plans
for scores of SEZs, and last week's violence prompted West
Bengal's ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) to announce
the proposed Nandigram zone would be scrapped.


In New Delhi, parliament adjourned several times Monday over the
Nandigram shootings, with opposition MPs trooping into the well
of the house and demanding regular business be set aside for a
special debate on the killings.


Repeated requests by the speakers of both houses of parliament
for order fell on deaf ears, with Hindu nationalist lawmakers
calling the West Bengal administration and New Delhi's Congress-
led government "anti-farmer."


After parliament adjourned, India's main opposition leader Lal
Krishna Advani threatened to stall proceedings again Tuesday if
the government did not agree to a special discussion.


The violence in Nandigram has renewed debate over whether
farmland should be used for industry in India, where some two-
thirds of the billion-plus population live off agriculture.


The protests have piled pressure on the federal government to
review its policy on SEZs, 14 of which are in operation so far.


Their creation under a 2005 law passed by parliament was hailed
as one of the biggest spurs for industrial expansion in post-
independence India, and was inspired by the tax-free zones China
set up a quarter of a century ago that helped propel its rapid
growth.

