

South Korean officials said Monday they would open a Seoul-funded
industrial estate in North Korea up to foreign investors next
month, in a further sign of easing tensions on the peninsula.


Hyundai Asan, developer of the complex in the border city of
Kaesong, said it would start receiving applications in April from
foreign investors interested in opening factories there.


South Korea last year postponed plans to offer plots to
foreigners due to tensions over the communist state's missile
launches last July and an atomic test last October.


"More than 30,000 pyong (9.9 hectares, or 24 acres) of land in
the complex will be set aside for foreign investors in April,"
Hyundai Asan official Kim Young- Soo told AFP.


The company, an affiliate of the Hyundai Group, is developing the
198-hectare complex, which was opened in 2004. It also funded and
developed the Mount Kumgang tourism resort in the North.


Currently, 23 South Korean factories at Kaesong employ about
11,160 North Korean workers making kitchenware, watches, shoes,
textiles and a variety of other items.


Hyundai Asan officials were upbeat about attracting foreign
investors, citing improved inter-Korean relations after high-
level talks in early March and progress in six-party talks on
ending the North's nuclear programme.


"I am optimistic. A friendly mood is emerging between North Korea
and the United States," Kim said, adding relations could improve
quickly depending on the outcome of six-party talks.


The two Koreas -- still technically at war -- agreed to build
Kaesong following their first and only summit in 2000. The cash-
strapped North, which relies on outside aid to feed its people,
has been pushing hard for economic cooperation with the South.


South Korea hopes to make Kaesong a development model, combining
its capital and the North's cheap labor, to reduce tensions and
introduce the hardline state to the market economy.


It plans to attract some 3,000 factories there by 2024.


Economic cooperation is "a short cut to maintaining peace on the
Korean peninsula," Unification Minister Lee Jae-Joung, in charge
of relations with the North, said in January.


He likened the process to the post-war creation of the European
Coal and Steel Community, which grew into the European Union.


But Seoul has still to solve a dispute with Washington over its
demands that goods produced at Kaesong should be recognised as
made in South Korea.


Washington treats goods produced by South Korean firms in Kaesong
as made in North Korea, and is reluctant to include Kaesong in
free trade talks with Seoul.


"I believe South Korea and the United States will be able to
resolve the dispute over Kaesong at their free trade talks,"
Hyundai Asan's Kim said.


"I believe we will be able to attract many foreign companies
which are interested in using cheap labor in Kaesong."


He said Hyundai, the government and the state-owned Korea Land
Corp were still working on details, including incentives. "If we
are well prepared, many foreign investors will come," he said,
declining to elaborate.


Kaesong and Kumgang have made almost one billion dollars --
including huge downpayments -- for the North since the Kumgang
mountain resort opened in 1998. Critics say the money may be
funding weapons programmes.


But Lee has said annual cash payments to the North through the
projects totals about 20 million dollars, 1.4 percent of its
estimated foreign currency earnings.


Lee has also denied allegations that North Korean workers' wages,
an average 57.5 dollars per month, are being taken by the
authorities there. He said they are given necessities of an
equivalent value to their wages.


"As there is a lack of daily commodities in North Korea, the
North Korean authorities purchase them abroad with the wages paid
and deliver them to the workers," Lee said in January.

