

Thai activists on Monday called for the boycott of a US drugmaker
after the company said it would not sell new drugs here in
response to a government decision to override one of its patents.


Saree Ongsomwang from the Consumer Foundation said a coalition of
activists would lead a boycott of Chicago-based Abbott
Laboratories, which is embroiled in a dispute with the Thai
government over generic drugs.


The company said last week it would pull patent applications
already filed in Thailand because it would not market new drugs
in the kingdom, in protest at the army-backed government's
decision to issue a compulsory licence for Abbott's anti-AIDS
drug Kaletra.


The World Trade Organisation allows countries to issue such
licences, which temporarily suspend a company's patent rights, to
deal with public health emergencies.


Few countries have used this provision, but Thailand is moving
aggressively to use the rule.


"The decision to withdraw its patent for new drugs is an unfair
trade practise and irresponsible to society," Saree told
reporters.


Rosana Tositrakoon from the Thai Holistic Health Foundation
defended the government's approval of generic versions of the
anti-AIDS drugs Kaletra and Efavirenz, as well as the blockbuster
heart drug Plavix.


"Until the company changes its position, it will face tougher and
tougher boycotts," she said.


She said the groups would hold a march to educate the public and
urged sympathisers in other countries to boycott Abbott's
products.


Thailand says it needs generic drugs to make treatment affordable
to the general public under its universal health scheme.


Drug companies defend their pricing, saying new medications are
expensive to offset the cost of bringing new drugs to market.


Abbott said last week it would not bring seven new drugs to
Thailand, including a new version of Kaletra as well as cutting-
edge antibiotics and painkillers.


Compulsory licences are expected to save Thailand some 1.03 to
1.66 billion baht (30 to 48 million dollars) in its health
budget, according to the activists.

