

Scholars from Japan and China met Monday to draft a joint study
of their past, saying they talked in a good atmosphere despite
longstanding tension over history issues.


The latest talks come after a regional uproar following Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's denial this month that Japan coerced
thousands of Asian women into brothels during World War II.


The joint study group, gathering 10 historians from each country,
met behind closed doors and paid a courtesy call on Japanese
Foreign Minister Taro Aso.


"We gathered together in a good atmosphere. We were able to
deepen understanding among academics from both sides," said Kong
Xuanyou, a Chinese diplomat involved in the talks.


"The distance between our two hearts may be large, and we can
think of various reasons why that may be so," Kong said during
the meeting with Aso, adding that through discussions
"understanding will deepen."


The meeting follows initial talks held in December in Beijing.
The latest meeting aims to set up the modalities for the study,
according to the Japanese foreign ministry.


The joint history review was agreed to by Abe when he paid a
fence-mending visit to China in September. The two countries have
set a target date of publication of their joint study in 2008.


The review covers thousands of years of history, including
periods of goodwill between the two civilisations.


But the most bitterly disputed points involve Japan's 1931-1945
occupation of China, which remains a major cause of anger six
decades afterwards.


Beijing maintains 35 million Chinese were either killed or
injured, most of them civilians, due to Japan's aggression, but
the number is disputed by many Japanese historians.


China has long charged that Japan has failed to atone for its
wartime conduct, while Japan accuses China of ignoring the post-
war period including Tokyo's economic support to Beijing in its
history textbooks.


Relations were badly strained under Abe's predecessor, Junichiro
Koizumi, due to his annual visits to a shrine venerating Japanese
war dead and war criminals alike.

