

The Palestinians began to come in from the cold of a year-long
Western boycott Monday as a senior Norwegian official met
ministers of the newly formed national unity government in Gaza.


Deputy Foreign Minister Raymond Johansen of Norway -- the first
European country to normalise relations with the Palestinians
following the inauguration of the unity cabinet -- met with prime
minister Ismail Haniya and foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr in Gaza
City.


Johansen was then to travel to Ramallah in the occupied West Bank
for talks with president Mahmud Abbas.


His visit comes as the Quartet of major players in the peace
process -- the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the
United States -- appears to be softening its stance towards the
new cabinet after a year-long boycott of its Islamist-dominated
predecessor.


"The walls of isolation and the aid embargo are cracking," Abu
Amr told an Israeli news website on Sunday, after France invited
the US-educated diplomat, an independent, for talks in Paris.


Israel has rejected the new cabinet and has urged the Quartet to
do the same, including keeping in place a punishing year-old
freeze on aid to the Palestinians, which has sent the economy in
the territories crashing.


The unity cabinet inaugurated on Saturday unites Abbas's secular
Fatah party with independents and the radical Islamist Hamas
movement, considered a terror group in the West.


The EU and the US froze all direct aid to the Palestinian
government a year ago, after Hamas came to power, and has
demanded that the cabinet renounce violence, recognise Israel and
agree to abide by past peace deals.


The unity cabinet installed on Saturday stopped short of agreeing
to the three conditions, saying in its political programme that
it will "respect" past peace deals, but affirming the
Palestinians' "legitimate right" to "all forms of resistance."


Norway, which is not an EU member, announced immediately
afterwards that it would normalise relations.


"In its programme, the unity government is taking important steps
towards complying with the international community's demands.
Norway will thus on this basis re-establish political and
economic relations with the Palestinian government," Foreign
Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said.


Other world powers have been more cautious.


Israel's main ally the US has pressed the new government to meet
the three international demands.


"This government needs to renounce terror and violence," US
national security advisor Stephen Hadley told CNN Sunday. "It
needs to acknowledge the right of Israel to exist."


But a spokeswoman for the US consulate in east Jerusalem said
Washington is ready to work with those Palestinian ministers who
are not from Hamas.


"Individuals who are not members of foreign terrorist
organizations but who do hold office in the unity government, we
do not rule out contact with those individuals," the spokeswoman
said.


The EU also called on the new cabinet to adopt a platform in line
with international conditions, but said it would "carefully
assess the platform and actions of the new government and its
ministers."


And in Israel, public opinion appeared to be softening as well,
with a poll on Monday finding 56 percent support for a dialogue
with some or all members of the new Palestinian government.

