

Pakistan's cricket coach, Bob Woolmer, was a garrulous "citizen
of world cricket" whose pioneering career as a coach was brought
to an end by a cruel twist of fate, British newspapers said
Monday.


His use of computer technology to pinpoint players' weak spots
and his cheerful character were the hallmarks of his approach to
the game, the Daily Telegraph wrote.


But these qualities were "tested to the limit by his last seven
months in charge of the Pakistan team, which lurched from one
crisis to another", the paper added.


These included the now-notorious match last September in England
when umpire Darrell Hair's decision to dock Pakistan five runs
for ball-tampering triggered a sit-in by the team.


The following month, fast bowlers Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif
failed drugs tests, although later had their bans overturned on
appeal but despite such difficulties, Woolmer was able to
discipline the team, the Times said.


"He took particular care not to offend the Muslim players,
supporters and administrators, although he declined to join the
team in their prayers," the paper's obituary said.


"He would tell them cricket was his religion."


The ability of Woolmer, a Briton, to work across cultures was
also highlighted when he was coach of South Africa between 1994
and 1999, the Guardian said.


It was to "cricket's lasting benefit" that Woolmer was involved
with South Africa when the country was readmitted to
international cricket, the paper added.


"His fairmindedness helped to soothe any lasting resentment
between black and white; his appetite for technical innovation
ensured that a country that had become backward in cricketing
terms during its years of isolation was able to adopt new methods
quickly and successfully," it said.


The Daily Mirror tabloid was alone in digging for scandal over
Woolmer's death -- it suggested he had died of an accidental
overdose of alcohol and prescription drugs, although did not give
further details.


Tributes from the likes of former Test umpire Dickie Bird -- who
hailed Woolmer as "the finest cricket coach in the world" -- were
far more common.


"His enthusiasm for the game never wavered," the Times added.


"Even when results were poor, he was never downcast for long."

