

Iraqis are increasingly pessimistic about the future, four years
after ouster of Saddam Hussein -- and fewer than one in five have
faith in the US-led coalition, a poll said Monday.


The survey, contrasting with a survey two years ago, indicated
that barely a quarter -- 26 percent -- feel safe in their own
neighbourhoods as the anniversary of the US-led invasion is
marked this week.


Only 18 percent of those polled have confidence in the United
States and the US- led coalition troops, while some 78 percent
opposed the presence of coalition forces and 69 percent said it
worsened the security situation.


Faith in the new Iraqi government was a little better, although
hardly overwhelming: 53 percent were dissatisfied with the
performance of the Iraqi government.


But some 63 percent said foreign troops should only leave after
security improved and the capacity of Iraq's institutions was
strengthened, according to the poll commissioned by the BBC, ABC
News, ARD German TV and USA Today.


A survey conducted for the BBC in November 2005 painted a much
brighter picture, with 71 percent saying things were good in the
lives, 64 percent saying their lives would be better in 12
months, and 69 percent saying the situation in the country would
be improved in a year.


Britain's ambassador to Baghdad, Dominic Asquith, told BBC radio
that different polls were prone to show different views of
experiences of life in Iraq.


"These are snapshots and snapshots can always give a rather
different view of the picture," he said.


"What we're seeing in the most recent poll you've produced is the
effect of the sectarian violence that broke out after the Samarra
attack," he added, referring to the bombing of a Shiite shrine
which triggered a sectarian war between Sunnis and Shiites in
February 2006.


According to the latest survey, 39 percent of Iraqis questioned
think things are going well in their lives, while 35 percent
think their lives will improve over the next year. Just 40
percent believe the general situation will improve.


Some 86 percent of those questioned expressed concern about
someone in their household being a victim of violence.


The poll found that basic necessities were lacking in Iraq, with
88 percent of respondents saying the availability of electricity
was either "quite bad" or "very bad".


About 69 percent gave similar responses for the availability of
clean water, and 88 percent for the availability of driving or
cooking fuel.


There was some solace for supporters of the foreign presence in
Iraq, however, as 56 percent did not believe that Iraq was in a
state of civil war, while 58 percent were in favour of
maintaining a unified Iraq.


Asquith also claimed that there were "positive" signs that the US
security plan in Baghdad is beginning to have a positive effect.


"There are some people who left Baghdad out of fear who are
coming back," he added.


"There is some degree of normality -- I'm not saying it is
normality but there is some degree of normality -- coming back.


"Shops are beginning to open, children are beginning to play on
the streets."


Pollsters D3 Systems questioned more than 2,000 people across all
18 Iraqi provinces between February 25 and March 5 for the
survey.

