

The official list of candidates for the French presidency is to
be released on Monday as a question mark hangs over the bid by
anti-globalisation crusader Jose Bove to get his name on the
ballot.


Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing
rightwing party, Socialist Segolene Royal and centrist Francois
Bayrou are among the 11 candidates who are all but certain to be
on the list.


Bove, 53, became a household name after he attacked a McDonald's
outlet in southern France in 1999 to protest "la malbouffe" or
bad food.


He said he had presented 504 signed sponsorship forms to the
Constitutional Council by last Friday's deadline.


But it remained unclear whether the endorsements would be
considered valid by the Council, the body that supervises the
election and which verified the signatures over the weekend.


Under French rules, presidential hopefuls must collect 500
endorsements from mayors and other elected officials to qualify
as a candidate for the April 22 vote.


A second round of voting is set for May 6 between the two top
candidates, as no one is expected to win an outright majority.
The first round will see half a dozen contenders alone from the
left and far-left battle it out -- an exception in Europe.


"According to our calculations, we should have the 500
signatures, but we don't have the official confirmation," Bove
told a news conference on Friday. He said his candidacy hinged on
"four or five signatures that could go either way."


The uncertainty surrounding Bove's bid followed weeks of
complaints from far- right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who accused
political rivals of pressuring mayors to withhold their support
and freeze him out of the race.


Le Pen, who stunned the nation when he qualified for the second
round of voting against Jacques Chirac in 2002, finally announced
last week that he had passed the 500-signature threshold.


If Bove makes it on to the ballot, he will be the seventh
candidate in a crowded field of left and far-left candidates that
are making the French election unique in Europe.


Postman Olivier Besancenot of the Revolutionary Communist League,
Workers' Struggle candidate Arlette Laguiller, Communist Party
Marie-George Buffet and small-town mayor Gerard Schivardi, whose
candidacy is backed by the Workers' Party, are campaigning for
increased wages and notably measures to bar companies from firing
staff.


The Socialist frontrunner Royal also faces a fringe challenge
from the Green Party candidate and former environment minister
Dominique Voynet, whose party has governed with previous left-
wing governments.


Polls however show that the combined vote of the left, excluding
Royal, totals less than 10 percent, its lowest level since 1961.


Royal is currently credited with 24 percent of first round votes,
ahead of 22 percent for Bayrou, but trailing behind Sarkozy on 31
percent, according to a TNS-Sofres survey released Sunday.


The French left was sent reeling in 2002 when Socialist candidate
Lionel Jospin was knocked out of the second round of voting, with
analysts pointing to the large number of leftist candidates on
the ballot as having split the vote.


Other candidates in the running are nationalist Philippe de
Villiers and Frederic Nihous of the Hunting, Fishing, Nature and
Traditions party.


The official list is to be released at 17:30 pm (1630 GMT).

