

A violent crackdown on political dissent in Zimbabwe could lead
Australian cricketers to scrap a planned tour of the southern
African nation later this year, the government said Monday.


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he was deeply disturbed by
events in Zimbabwe and would raise the issue with Cricket
Australia after the World Cup, which is under way in the
Caribbean.


"I've not been a great fan of cricket tours to Zimbabwe," Downer
told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


He noted that the final decision on the September tour rested
with national and international cricket authorities and involved
contractual issues.


"But once the World Cup is over, we'll talk to the Australian
Cricket Board about this."


The regime of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has drawn
international criticism over its brutal crushing of dissent this
month, including the shooting of an activist and the beating of
several opposition leaders.


Cricket Australia said it had not yet considered cancelling the
tour, which involves three one-day internationals.


"We're just not thinking about it, it's not on our current agenda
and not on our radar as such," said spokesman Peter Young, noting
that the focus was on the World Cup.


Young said the reports of violence in Zimbabwe were "appalling",
but he could not say whether the tour would go ahead if the
violence continued.


"Who knows what will happen between now and then?"


An Australian delegation would be sent to Zimbabwe before the
tour to check on the security arrangements for the players and
team officials, but it would not leave until close to the tour
date.


Australia are obliged under International Cricket Council
regulations to tour every member nation in a five-year span or
incur a massive fine from the sport's governing body.


Some opposition parties in Australia have suggested the
government should undertake to pay the fine if Cricket Australia
cancels the tour.


Prime Minister John Howard said in a radio address Monday that
Australia would work with other countries "to place greater
pressure on the Zimbabwean leadership" but did not mention the
cricket tour.


He said one of the major reasons why Mugabe remained in power and
presided over the destruction of his country was that
neighbouring countries, particularly South Africa, had failed to
exert sufficient pressure.


"The reality is that only the leaders of these African countries
enjoy the historic leverage to sway Mugabe. Nothing short of his
peaceful departure from office can offer hope to this tragic
country," the prime minister said.


"The world community led by the governments in southern Africa
should set about achieving this objective."

