

Indian media and entertainment industry revenues are forecast to
more than double to 22.7 billion dollars in the next five years
as rising incomes drive recreation demand, a survey showed
Monday.


The industry, which now has annual turnover of 437 billion
rupees, is forecast to hit one trillion rupees by 2011, according
to the survey by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
and Industry, or FICCI, and PricewaterhouseCoopers.


"Rising income levels and consumerism bred from the country's
strong economic growth are creating a strong demand for
entertainment," said a statement they released on the findings of
the survey, which covered films, television and radio, newspapers
and magazines, and the music industry.


India's film industry, which includes the Mumbai-centered
Bollywood, is the world's biggest producer of movies, churning
out more than 800 films a year.


Film industry revenue alone is forecast to reach 175 billion
rupees by 2011 from 85 billion rupees, the survey said.


Television will also expand its reach in the nation of 1.1
billion people, driven by the mushroom growth of broadcasters in
regional languages such as Tamil, Telugu and Hindi, and the rise
of direct-to-home satellite services.


Television broadcasters had revenue of 191 billion rupees last
year that will reach 519 billion rupees by 2011, the survey said.


The print media's annual revenue was forecast to reach 232
billion rupees from 128 billion rupees, with radio broadcasters
projected to rise threefold to 17 billion rupees.


India's music industry, which has been plagued by piracy, is
expected to log 8.7 billion rupees of sales by 2011, compared
with 7.2 billion rupees, according to the survey.


The survey said advertising spending in India in  2006 grew 23
percent over the previous year to 163 billion rupees and may
double by 2011.


"While today the low ad spend may seem like a challege before the
entertainment and media industry, it also throws open immense
potential for growth," it said.


The media and entertainment industry's growth is being stoked by
television news networks diversifying into amusement channels,
movie distributors entering film production and tycoons such as
Anil Ambani of Reliance buying the Adlabs multiplex cinema hall
chain.


As well, the advent of FM radio and the Internet on a single
consumer device like the mobile phone has also sparked growth.
India's is the world's fastest growing market for mobile phone
use with more than 100 million subscribers already.


"There is only one direction for the Indian entertainment and
media industry to go: up," said Timmy Kandhari, an executive at
PricewaterhouseCoopers.

