

Australian terror suspect David Hicks was forcibly sedated at
Guantanamo Bay last month just before he was told of a new charge
against him, his US military defence lawyer said Monday.


Major Michael Mori, who represents Adelaide-born Hicks, said his
client was left frightened and confused after taking a drug
offered to him by a US official to counteract a stomach
complaint.


"David took it and then it started to basically sedate him," Mori
told ABC radio.


"The next thing he knew, he was being taken out of his cell and
somebody was talking to him about charges and he really couldn't
comprehend what was going on. And it lasted for almost 24 hours."


A spokesman for the Pentagon told the ABC that US officials were
examining the allegations, but noted that Hicks "has been treated
humanely while in US custody."


Attorney-General Philip Ruddock said Australian consular
officials had raised the issue with US authorities.


"But the idea that you immediately come to a conclusion this was
some sinister effort is not necessarily a safe assumption to
draw," he told ABC radio.


Hicks, 31, has been held in US military custody for more than
five years without trial, the last year spent in virtual solitary
confinement in a small cell.


He was last month charged with providing material support for
terrorism and is due to appear in a Guantanamo Bay courtroom next
week.


Public support for Hicks, who was captured in late 2001 in
Afghanistan where he was allegedly fighting alongside Taliban
forces, has grown because of the length of time he has been held
without trial.


Prime Minister John Howard, who unlike his British counterpart
Tony Blair has steadfastly refused to seek the release of his
nationals from US custody, has admitted it has taken too long for
Hicks to be tried.


Australian lawyers for Hicks have long argued that the government
has abandoned the father-of-two, and have gone to the Federal
Court to argue that Canberra has breached its duty of care.


Hicks' Adelaide-based lawyer, David McLeod, said Howard, Ruddock
and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer could be called to give
evidence when the case goes to court on May 17.


McLeod said while most evidence should be agreed on without the
need to call witnesses, senior government officials could be
called if the facts were in dispute.


"If it (evidence) can't be agreed, then there will be a request
for certain witnesses and it may well include Mr. Downer and Mr.
Ruddock and indeed Mr. Howard as potential witnesses," McLeod
told ABC radio.


McLeod said he was confident the Federal Court hearing would
result in Hicks being brought home ahead of his US military
trial.


"If we succeed in our arguments before the Federal Court, then a
consequence will be for the government to take steps to seek
David's release back to Australia," he said.

