

Basra reed warblers are again warbling and water buffalo
wallowing in the Mesopotamian marshes, but a full recovery of the
Iraq wetland drained by Saddam Hussein is still far from certain,
experts say.


When the snows in the Kurdistan mountains begin melting in the
next few weeks, unless the gushing waters can be fully harnessed
some gains already made could be reversed, according to Iraqi
civil engineer Azzam Alwash.


While many dams and canals ordered to be built by Saddam in 1993
have been destroyed, he said, large dams upstream both inside
Iraq and in Turkey are preventing the water from arriving with
the force needed to flush out the brackish water that accumulates
in the summer months.


About 90 percent of the marshland in southern Iraq, which once
covered an area of 20,000 square kilometres (8,000 square miles)
and is fed by the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, was drained by
Saddam to crush a local Shiite rebellion.


The half a million so-called Marsh Arabs living in an area
considered by some to be the location of the Biblical Garden of
Eden were forced to flee as the wetland quickly became a
wasteland.


But with the fall of Saddam after the US-led invasion in March
2003, Iraqi farmers destroyed some of the dams and canals that
had diverted the waters, allowing the area to be reflooded and
the Marsh Arabs to return.


According to Alwash, who with a team of scientists has monitored
the recovery of the marshes for the past three years, around 60
percent of the wetland has now been reflooded, thanks also in
part to projects overseen by the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP).


He added that this does not mean 60 percent of the wetland has
actually recovered, however.


"We can say that only around 45 percent of the marsh is showing
signs of a robust recovery," the engineer, head of non-
governmental organisation Nature Iraq, told AFP by telephone from
Amman in Jordan.


He said his team of scientists had concluded that the main factor
preventing a full recovery is the upstream dams.


"Before the damned dams, Iraq used to get approximately 100
billion cubic metres (3,500 trillion cubic feet) of water per
annum, 60 percent of which arrived during the snow melt," Alwash
said.


"The water comes into southern Iraq, which is flat, and results
in flooding of the area -- hence the marshes," he added.


"The marshes need this injection of water during the spring, just
as the reeds come out of winter hibernation, and fish begin
spawning and the bird migration occurs."


Alwash wants a system installed that will create a "mechanical
flooding action" to make up for the usual rush of fresh water
from the mountains. But the task is daunting because of the
dangers of working in the lawless area and a lack of resources.


The Iraqi government favours the idea, he said, but most of its
resources are going towards trying to stabilise a country wracked
by sectarian strife.


"The government is full of good intentions, but it has other
things on its mind," said Alwash.


The signs of recovery are there, however.


Five surveys carried out in the past two and a half years by
biologists from Nature Iraq and experts from Birdlife
International showed that all bird species which traditionally
inhabited the marshes are still around, albeit in smaller
numbers.


Water buffalo have also returned, said Alwash.


"At the last count there were 6,000 water buffalo. In the past we
saw very few."


Not only are the animals powerful beasts of burden, he said, they
also supply milk and meat -- crucial in helping the 5,000-year-
old Marsh Arab culture to recover.


According to Middle East bird expert Richard Porter, who is
helping Alwash and his team of biologists sift through the data
recorded in their two summer and three winter surveys, the signs
for birdlife recovery are positive.


Porter, Middle East adviser to Birdlife International, told AFP
by telephone from Cambridge in England that the teams found at
least 160 bird species.


Of these, 65 species are of "conservation concern," he said.


"They are not doing terribly well either in Europe or Asia or the
Middle East," said Porter, co-author of the book "Field Guide to
the Birds of Iraq."


"Seven of the species they have discovered are globally
threatened -- three of these are endemic birds, the Basra reed
warbler, the Iraq babbler and the grey hypocolius," he said.


"The reed warbler was considered to be globally endangered -- but
in the survey they found good populations, so we know that that
bird is around in much bigger numbers than we previously
thought," Porter added.


"No species of bird has been discovered to have become extinct in
the marshes. Everything that has been found is very positive for
conservation."


But Azzam Alwash is more cautious.


"The marshes are still under threat," he said. "We may yet lose
species."

