

Whether its interfering studios or diva-like behavior from star
actors and actresses, foreign directors have often struggled to
get to grips with life in Hollywood.


But while Susanne Bier had heard the horror stories and harbored
a few prejudices of her own, the 46-year-old Danish director says
working on her first English-language movie has been a joy.


Bier, speaking in Los Angeles to promote the US release of her
Oscar-nominated drama "After the Wedding," has recently completed
filming on "Things We Lost In The Fire," starring Halle Berry and
Benicio Del Toro.


"You come with all your European prejudices, the fear that they
will crush you into the mainstream. But the reality has been
different," Bier told AFP.


The film's producer, Oscar-winning director Sam Mendes, had
encouraged her to be bold artistically, she said.


"At script meetings they have said to me 'Please remember that we
want this to be edgy.' So my prejudices have certainly not been
fulfilled.


"Sam Mendes has been producing and he's been wonderful.
Dreamworks have been remarkably open and eager to make a personal
movie.


"The only thing that's different is that everything is bigger.
There are more cars, more entourages. I've been laughing about
that quite a bit."


While Bier has been getting her first taste of directing an
English-language film, two of her successful Danish movies
"Brothers", a war drama set in post-9/11 Afghanistan, and "Open
Hearts" are being re-made in English. "It's a weird feeling," she
said.


"I don't know how it feels exactly. It's a bit like your baby
suddenly being adopted by some other parents.


"But if the stories can survive in a different shape then maybe
that's a good thing. Maybe I need to tame my possessiveness."


The Oscar nod for "After the Wedding" made Bier one of only a
small band of women to have had feature films nominated for an
Academy Award, either in the best film or best foreign-language
category.


Bier attributes her success partly to societal values in Denmark
that encourage and facilitate women to pursue careers.


"In northern Europe we have a tradition of child care, of
actually enabling women to have a career and have kids," said
Bier, who has two children.


"I don't think the film industry discriminates against women.
It's simply that if society doesn't help in a real way, then a
lot of talented women are going to make the decision not to
pursue a career seriously."


Yet Bier maintains that in most cases, talent allied with desire
will prevail, regardless of personal circumstances.


"I have a hard time with people who complain and moan, or people
who say that everything that is not happening for them is
everybody else's fault," she said. "Usually it's not the case.
You can usually make it work."


Bier is widely regarded as one of the finest European directors
of her generation, her films artfully exploring the intricacies
and contradictions of human behavior, often within a family
context.


"All my movies have been about families," Bier said. "I think
families are so much the make-up of who we are."


Having arrived relatively late to film-making -- she was in her
early 20s before she first decided she wanted to direct -- Bier
said she will continue as long as she remains passionate about
movies.


"The passion is what gives intensity to the work I do," she said.
"The moment it goes away I will have to do something else."

