

Controls over air fares, fuel supply and aircraft purchases are
among the restrictions keeping China's aviation sector from
growing at its full potential, an industry consultancy said.


With the economy growing 8.0-10 percent annually, China's
aviation sector has what it takes to expand by up to 10
percentage points above current growth levels if these
restrictions were lifted, the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation
said in a statement issued late Sunday.


It did not give the current growth levels for China's aviation
sector but said double-digit air traffic growth is possible.


"Double-digit air traffic growth is a certainty in an economy
growing by 8-10 percent annually," said Peter Harbison, the
consultancy's executive chairman.


"But controls over fares, routes, aircraft purchases, airport
charges, fuel supply and distribution services are keeping
China's aviation market from achieving its full potential."


These restrictions are also likely to stifle the growth of
homegrown low cost carriers (LCCs) and make operating conditions
tough for privately-owned airlines, said Harbison.


"An unfortunate by-product of these controls is that they may
delay the advent of genuine domestic LCCs in China's market until
the end of the decade," he said.


"China's nascent independent private airline sector will find the
going tough in this environment and will largely remain confined
to serving niche roles."


On the outlook, Harbison said national airline Air China can
expect a strong 2007 due to its working partnership with Hong
Kong's Cathay Pacific.


"Well-managed and politically favoured Air China can look forward
to another good year in 2007, especially as greater network
cooperation with Cathay Pacific comes online," he said.


Harbison expects foreign investment in the country's airport
sector to gain momentum this year as the Civil Aviation
Administration of China (CAAC) is keen to reduce its burden of
financing infrastructure upgrade.


"There is a growing hunger by the government for foreign
investment ... to reduce the CAAC's burden of funding airport
infrastructure, a role it clearly does not want to retain in the
long term," Harbison said.

