

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki insisted sectarian killing
had come to an end in his country, blaming ongoing daily violence
on Al-Qaeda in a television interview Monday.


"I would say that the sectarian killing is over," Maliki said, in
comments to be broadcast Monday on the eve of the fourth
anniversary of the United States-led and British-backed invasion
of Iraq.


"It threatened the breakout of a sectarian war, but this has been
ended by two factors -- the first one is the national
reconciliation on which we still insist.


"The second thing is the ability of the security services in
arresting those who are provoking the sectarian unrest," he told
ITV television, according to extracts released in advance of the
broadcast.


He added that Al-Qaeda posed the "biggest threat" to Iraq and the
Middle East.


"This situation will continue but the continuation of the
increasing effort of this operation will deplete all the efforts
of Al-Qaeda," he said.


"We have accurate intelligence information that Al-Qaeda and the
remains of the former regime are being scattered and chased and
losing the secure conditions under which they used to operate.


"There are still some incidents but in comparison to what it used
to be like, it is nothing in comparison to what used to happen
before."


Al-Qaeda operatives with "sick minds" were targeting both Sunni
and Shia areas, he said. "Al-Qaeda is still the biggest threat
for Iraq and the region," he said.


And he added: "Everyone agrees on this. It is not a threat
towards only one part of the population.


"They are carrying out killings and crimes in Sunni areas in the
same way they target Shia areas...they have sick minds. They
believe that anyone who works for the government deserves to be
killed."


A poll of more than 2,000 Iraqis commissioned by the BBC and
three other international media organisations to mark the date
showed that 86 percent expressed concern about someone in their
household being a victim of violence.


In addition, some 78 percent opposed the presence of coalition
forces and 69 percent said their presence made the security
situation worse.


But Maliki said that most Iraqis were "happy and delighted"
because "this mysterious sectarian killing and kidnapping is over
in their neighbourhoods".

