

A Danish climber who witnessed Chinese border guards shoot at
Tibetan refugees and kill a Buddhist nun at the border with Nepal
last year said Monday he wanted to do more to help, but was
afraid.


"I was lying in my tent that morning," 48-year-old Pierre Maena,
a surgeon from Copenhagen on his first climbing trip in China,
told reporters in New Delhi.


"I heard a lot of noises, like shooting, but I didn't realise it
was shooting. Bit by bit I realised something very horrible was
happening," he said, recounting the September 30, 2006 incident.


A teenage Tibetan Buddhist nun who was in the group of some 75
refugees, almost half of whom were children, was killed on the
spot.


"We were talking if maybe we could go to the pass to see if (she)
was still alive but we didn't dare. We were too afraid. There was
a long distance and still there were a lot of soldiers," he said.


Maena described what he saw as reporters watched a longer version
of the footage of the incident, which was filmed by a Romanian
television journalist and triggered international condemnation.


The footage contradicted the Chinese police version of events,
which maintained that the Tibetan refugees had attacked the
border guards.


"To see all the Chinese soldiers standing there and just shooting
those people without any possibility to hide or to run away, it
was very shocking," said the Dane.


Maena was invited to speak at the Indian capital by the
Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet. The Romanian
journalist was denied a visa by India, the group said.


Maena said that after the shooting he saw many of the children
being taken away by soldiers with machine guns.


At least 25 Tibetans from the group were detained by Chinese
police after the incident, the US-based rights group said.


Close to 3,000 Tibetans make the dangerous journey across the
mountains from Tibet to Nepal and finally Dharamsala, the Indian
hill station where Tibetan Buddhist spiritual leader the Dalai
Lama lives in exile.


Many of those are nuns or monks fleeing religious persecution, or
children being sent by their parents to study in Tibetan Buddhist
schools.

