

The future of top cycling star Ivan Basso is hanging by a thread
after his team, Discovery Channel, announced they had parted
company with the Italian on Monday.


Basso, one of dozens of riders implicated in the 'Operation
Puerto' doping affair, was suspended by the team last week after
the Italian Olympic Committee (CONI) called him a hearing this
week to answer doping charges.


CONI had initially cleared Basso the first time around, saying
there was not enough evidence to sanction him.


Discovery said then they stood by the 29-year-old Tour of Italy
champion, who was set to lead their bid to win the Tour de France
yellow jersey in July.


However on Monday the American outfit announced that Basso had
asked to be released from his contract.


A statement quoted Basso as saying: "This was a very difficult
decision, for me and my family, but I think it is the right thing
to do."


Discovery, the team in which former star Lance Armstrong still
has a stake, will end their sponsorship of the team, a decision
which is not connected to the ongoing investigation, at the end
of the current season.


Basso added: "The team is trying to find a new sponsor and win
bike races, and my situation is a distraction to both of those
goals.


"It is important that everyone knows this was 100 percent my
decision. Nobody asked me to leave. I am grateful to all of the
staff and riders and wish them the best of luck."


'Operation Puerto' erupted in May 2006 when police uncovered an
alleged blood doping and doping network when they raided the
premises of a Madrid sports doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Police found hundreds of frozen bags of blood, banned substances
such as EPO (erythropoietin), growth hormones and anabolic
steroids, and incriminating documents with alleged codenames and
numbers for Fuentes' 'clients'.


Some 200 athletes and 58 cyclists were reportedly implicated,
leading to the suspension of 13 riders - including Basso and
German star Jan Ullrich - by their teams prior to last year's
Tour de France.


On Monday La Gazzetta dello Sport claimed that another, as yet
unidentified, 49 cyclists are implicated in the doping affair,
bringing the total to 107 and threatening to cast an even darker
cloud over the sport ahead of the first two major stage races of
the season.


Operation Puerto dragged on for most of last season and now
appears to have re- erupted only weeks ahead of the Giro d'Italia
and two months before the Tour de France.


A recent DNA sample from Ullrich reportedly linked the 1997 Tour
de France winner to blood found in Fuentes' laboratory.


It led Tour de France director Christian Prudhomme to declare
last week: "The sport just cannot allow cyclists who are still
implicated in this affair to start the Tour de France if
suspicion still hangs over them."


Basso was one of 13 riders suspended from racing the Tour de
France last year because of their implication in Operation
Puerto.


Months later, he was sacked by his then team, CSC, just as
Ullrich was sacked by his team, T-Mobile.


The Italian has always protested his innocence and will be given
a chance to write that claim in stone after the CONI hearing on
May 2 when he will likely be asked to provide a DNA sample.

