

Fallen English football giants Leeds United will be back claimed
their defiant chairman Ken Bates on Monday.


The three-time English champions and 1975 European Cup finalists
are almost certain to be relegated to the third tier of English
football for the first time in their history next weekend.


However Bates, who has had to battle against the huge debts
incurred of around 100million pounds under the regime of Peter
Ridsdale, believes that with the immense support he had received
since Saturday's 1-1 draw with Ipswich, which effectively sealed
their fate, the club would rise again.


"Big clubs fall on hard times but they always rise as Leeds will
do," Bates told Yorkshire Radio.


Bates, though, added that the support shown to the club
contrasted "with the vultures of the media".


"The piranha fish of the media have been feeding off each other's
stories," said the 72-year-old former Chelsea chairman.


"Meanwhile, we're just trying to get on with the business.


"We've been looking at budgets, reviewing our costs and reviewing
where we can save money to make sure that next season we're
profitable and can improve the team.


"This is a great club on hard times. We'll be back again sooner
or later, but how quickly will depend on the fans.


"Little clubs are always little clubs and big clubs are always
big clubs."


Bates, who controversially sacked manager Kevin Blackwell early
in the season because he had spoken publicly about the finances
of the club and despite having taken them to within one match of
regaining their Premiership place last term, made it clear that
he would not forget those who do invest.


"When we're back where we belong, we'll remember the people who
did support us and those who didn't support us," said Bates, who
appointed close friend Denis Wise whose son he is godfather to.


"Revenge will be a dish best eaten cold."


Bates has already rejected an approach from former Sheffield
United chairman Mike McDonald.


"I told him to go away and come back with proof of funds," said
Bates.


"I haven't seen him since."


The club will be relegated on Sunday unless they score a hatful
of goals to beat Derby and Hull City lose at home to Plymouth.

