

Even as Egypt gears up to play host to another international
conference on Iraq, its role in the region is looking ceremonial
and toothless compared to the successes of Saudi Arabia.


Analysts argue that diplomatic endeavours to solve the crises in
Sudan, Lebanon, Iraq and the Palestinian territories have exposed
the decline of Egypt as a key power-broker.


"After 26 years of reign, the pharaoh is growing tired," said
Antoine Basbous, who heads the Observatoire des Pays Arabes, a
Paris-based think tank on the Arab world.


"The Egyptian regime is running out of steam, takes few
initiatives and is constantly on the back foot," he added.


World leaders shuttling across the Middle East to find fixes to
the region's woes still stop over at President Hosni Mubarak's
palace to lend a respectful ear to the veteran leader's advice.


The May 3-4 talks on restoring security in Iraq are taking place
in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh but observers argue
Egypt's role is increasingly confined to lending its resort
facilities.


"Egypt is merely hosting the conference but it will have no
influence on the substance," said Imad Gad, a political analyst
with the Al-Ahram Centre for Political and Strategic Studies.


"The fact that Saudi Arabia plays a prominent role in the affairs
of Iraq is not surprising but it is much more striking to see it
take the lead on the traditionally Egyptian files of Palestine
and Sudan," he said.


Statements from foreign diplomats visiting Cairo are still
peppered with praise for "Egypt's central role" in the region,
but few foreign powers still take their cue from Cairo, he
argued.


"Egypt is too busy preparing the tricky succession to Gamal
Mubarak and striking deals with the US administration on economic
and democratic reform... so it has given up its regional role,"
Gad said.


Saudi Arabia has been active in trying to contain the political
crisis in Lebanon, but more significantly, it scored diplomatic
successes in Egypt's own historical backyard.


An accord brokered by Saudi Arabia and signed in Mecca in
February brought an end to bitter factional fighting among rival
Palestinian factions and eventually led to the formation of a
national unity government.


It came after several years of Egyptian-led efforts in the Gaza
Strip and West Bank to contain internecine Palestinian tensions
and broker a resumption of peace negotiations with Israel.


"Sudan was also long seen by Cairo as an extension of Egypt...
but the latest developments on the Darfur issue show once again
how Saudi diplomacy has become influential, at the expense of
Egypt," said Roland Marchal, an expert from the French Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir accepted the second phase of a
UN peacekeeping plan for war-torn Darfur after a phone call with
Saudi King Abdullah, Marchal pointed out.


"The former Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar
(bin Sultan), also played a tremendous role in the latest
negotiations with Khartoum," he added.


The emergence as a key regional broker of Saudi Arabia, the
mainly Sunni custodian of Islam's holiest sites, has coincided
with the dramatic growth of Shiite political influence in the
region.


Shiite Iran has consolidated its status as a regional powerhouse.


Iraq's majority Shiites have seized power through elections and
the Shiite group Hezbollah boosted its regional prestige with its
performance against the Israeli army in last summer's Lebanon
war.


"Saudi Arabia is obviously worried about the Shiite rise, but
Egypt is also a key Sunni Arab country, yet it didn't react in
the same way," Gad said.


Basbous also pointed out that Egyptian diplomacy had been
weakened by internal power struggles and efforts to clear the way
for Mubarak's son Gamal to take over at the helm of the country.


"Every time there was an omnipresent foreign minister, he was
gently shown the door on suspicion he could one day see himself
as pharaoh," he explained.


Ahmed Abul Gheit has been Egypt's foreign minister since 2004,
succeeding Ahmed Maher and Amr Mussa. The latter won wide
popularity and was once seen as a potential president before
being appointed Arab League secretary general.

