

The UN Security Council on Monday urged all warring sides in
Somalia to agree a ceasefire and deny safe haven to extremist
elements while pressing for increased humanitarian aid for the
battered country's population.


In a non-binding statement approved by consensus, the 15-member
council voiced "grave concern" at the recent renewed fighting in
Somalia, deplored the loss of civilian life and condemned "the
indiscriminate shelling of heavily populated areas of Mogadishu."


It called on all parties "to immediately end the hostilities and
agree a comprehensive ceasefire."


It also underscored the need for stepped-up efforts to provide
humanitarian relief aid to the Horn of Africa country, "including
assistance to the hundreds of thousands of displaced persons" and
urged member states "to support generously such operations."


Ethiopian forces have been battling Somalia's Islamist fighters
and clan militia since the beginning of the year when they backed
government soldiers to oust an Islamist movement from the capital
as well as the south and center of the country.


After an Ethiopian offensive on Thursday put an end to nine days
of heavy clashes, in which around 400 died, some of the estimated
400,000 displaced civilians began returning home from squalid
camps on the outskirts of Mogadishu.


The council statement also called "on all parties in Somalia, the
region and the wider international community to reject violence,
to deny safe haven to extremists elements, to pursue differences
they might have with the Transitional Federal Institutions
through dialogue."


And the council asked the Ethiopian-backed federal authorities
"to ensure that the National Reconciliation Congress is convened
as soon as possible and is truly representative of all segments
of Somali society."


It stressed the crucial importance of a "full and effective
deployment" of African Union (AU) troops in Somalia and called on
other potential troop contributing countries to beef up that
operation.


A vanguard African Union peacekeeping force, currently made up of
some 1,500 Ugandan troops, has been unable to contain the
Islamist insurgency.


The pan-African body plans to deploy an 8,000-strong force to the
war-torn nation, but other African countries who have promised to
contribute soldiers have yet to do so.


The council statement also asked UN chief Ban Ki-moon "to
immediately begin appropriate contingency planning for a possible
UN mission, to be deployed if the Security Council decided to
authorize such a mission."


The recent fighting was among the heaviest since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a bloody power
struggle that has defied 14 attempts to restore stability.

