

Yahoo said Monday it is buying online advertising exchange Right
Media in a move to counter Google's move to acquire the
DoubleClick Internet ad-targeting firm.


California-based online search titan Yahoo, which owns 20 percent
of Right Media, said it will acquire the remaining 80 percent of
the company for 680 million dollars (500 million euros) in stock
and cash.


"The acquisition of Right Media will further Yahoo's goal to
create the industry's most open, accessible and vibrant
advertising marketplace," Yahoo chairman and chief executive
Terry Semel said in a statement on the deal to buy the firm
matching online advertisers with websites.


Right Media is a leader in the growing online advertising market.
More than 20,000 buyers and sellers use Right Media for their
transactions every day.


"We are very excited by the prospect of becoming part of Yahoo,
the market leader in display advertising, as it looks to
revolutionize the media buying and selling landscape," said Right
Media founder and chief executive Michael Walrath in a statement.


Yahoo bought its 20-percent stake in Right Media in October 2006.


Right Media's business operations will be independently run from
the firm's offices in New York City, according to Yahoo senior
vice president of marketplaces Todd Teresi.


Yahoo will use its computer servers, engineering talent and other
massive technical resources to help Right Media quickly grow as a
sophisticated open exchange for the buying and selling of online
advertising.


While announcing on April 13, 2007 that it is buying New York-
based DoubleClick for 3.1 billion dollars, Google revealed plans
for the Internet ad tracking and targeting firm to create an open
exchange akin to Right Media.


Yahoo hopes to entrench Right Media as the dominant ad exchange
before DoubleClick can get its footing in the market.


"We think Right Media's lead in the marketplace puts us in a
position of really being in the forefront from an execution
standpoint," Teresi told AFP.


"When you develop and create scale very quickly, barriers to
entry are created. We think we can get that scale very quickly
and create those barriers to entry."


Six billion deals for online ads take place on Right Media daily,
according to Yahoo. The four-year-old firm is on track to break
even financially for the first time this year, said Yahoo chief
financial officer Sue Decker.


Teresi maintained that the Right Media purchase is part of a
strategy Yahoo initiated last year with an exclusive deal to
handle display advertising at online auction website eBay.


Yahoo went on to buy part of Right Media in 2006 and build a
consortium of newspapers to more effectively entwine online and
print advertising opportunities.


"We are revealing bits and pieces of the strategy," Teresi said.


"That is why we see it as Google chasing us rather than Yahoo
taking on the Google monster."


The ad exchange serves as a place where advertisers can easily
"hook-up" with websites or online services that cater to desired
customer demographics.


"We believe the power of many trumps the power of one and that
open trumps closed," Semel said during a conference call with
analysts and news reporters.


"By making an open exchange we create a better system that any
one company can do on their own."

