

Morocco, the Polisario Front which advocates self-rule for
disputed Western Sahara, and Algeria on Monday welcomed a UN call
for direct autonomy talks between the separatists and Rabat.


Morocco's junior foreign minister Taeib Fassi Fihri said a UN
resolution urging Rabat and the Algerian-backed Polisario Front
to launch the UN-sponsored talks without preconditions on self-
determination to end a 32-year-old dispute was a "reward" for
Moroccan efforts to grant the territory autonomy.


A source close to Sahrawian foreign ministry in Algiers told AFP
Polisario was "satisfied with the resolution of the UN Security
Council which reaffirms ... that the right to self-determination
of the Sahrawian people has to be the basis for a just and
lasting solution to the conflict".


The 15-member body earlier Monday unanimously adopted the
resolution that also took note of the two parties' rival plans to
settle their row and renewed the mandate of the UN Mission for
the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) for another six
months.


Algeria also said it was pleased, in a statement issued by the
foreign ministry.


"Algeria welcomes the high degree of responsibility once again
shown by the main UN body in charge of peacekeeping and
international security and hails the remarkable consistency shown
by the UN in matters of decolonisation," it said.


Morocco recently proposed an autonomy referendum in Western
Sahara that envisages giving the Sahrawis "control over their
affairs through legislative, executive and judicial institutions"
under Moroccan sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for a
political solution acceptable to all parties."


But the Polisario Front submitted a rival plan that rejected the
Moroccan proposal and upheld "the right of the (local) people for
self-determination."


Morocco annexed the desolate northwest African territory after
the withdrawal of the region's former colonial power Spain and
neighbor Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it with around 300,000
Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front, an armed
group which contested Rabat's sovereignty, that ended in 1991
with a UN-brokered ceasefire.

