

A US-led effort to rebuild Iraq continues to come up short in
delivering essential services even though most of the 21 billion
dollars provided by the United States has now been spent, an
audit made public Monday found.


The audit also found that seven of eight completed projects
visited by inspectors had not been properly kept up, "posing a
threat to the condition and durability of the buildings and
equipment turned over to the Iraqis."


The quarterly report to Congress by the special inspector for
Iraq, Stuart Bowen, also warned of growing opportunities for
corruption, and said Iraq's prime minister's office has used a
1971 law to block 48 corruption probes involving 110 people.


As in previous reports, Bowen pointed to the poor security
conditions in Iraq as a major stumbling block for reconstruction
efforts.


"The volatile security environment, coupled with the limitations
of the law enforcement and judicial systems, has continued to
hinder the progress of reconstruction projects across all
sectors," his report said.


"Persistent attacks on US-funded infrastructure projects and
sustainment challenges could jeopardize the completion of
projects by their planned end- dates of mid- to late-2008."


Of 21 billion dollars provided by the United States in 2003 for
Iraq's reconstruction, 98 percent has been obligated and 84
percent has now been spent with most of the remaining projects
expected to be completed by the end of the year, the report said.


But in key areas, the reconstruction effort has fallen well short
of even current targets, many of which have been revised downward
over the years.


Average daily power generation during the quarter was only 3,832
megawatts (MW) -- below pre-war levels of 4,500 MW and well below
the US goal of 6,000 MWs. Demand, on the other hand, averaged
8,533 MW a day.


Baghdad averaged only 6.5 hours of power a day during the last
week of March, a decrease from the same period last year, the
report said.


"This quarter, insufficient supplies of fuel and water to
generation facilities led to a loss of nearly 1,500 MW in
production per day," the report said. "As new generation projects
come online, the issue of fuel and water supply grows more
critical."


Oil exports were up during the quarter to 1.44 million barrels a
day from 1.3 million barrels the same period a year ago, but
production was down, according to the report.


"Iraq has missed its quarterly production target every quarter
since 2004," the report said.


Crude oil production averaged 1.95 million barrels a day. That
was down from 2.17 million barrels a day the previous quarter but
up slightly from the same period the previous year.


US water projects have provided capacity to supply drinking water
to 5.6 million people, a slight increase from last quarter but
well short of a target of 8.4 million.


The report noted that the International Committee of the Red
Cross said "both the quantity and the quality of drinking water
in Iraq remain insufficient despite limited improvement."


The report said US funded projects also are adding potential
capacity to the sewage system but "measuring how much additional
sewage is actually treated remains difficult."


"Although the United States has made progress on reconstruction
activities in the education sector, continuing security issues
prevent many Iraqis from using the facilities," the report said.


"According to statistics from Iraq's Ministry of Education, only
30 percent of Iraq's 3.5 million students are actually attending
classes," the report said.


On the healthcare front, 20 hospitals have been built or
refurbished with US funds, according to the report. But little
progress has been made in building a planned network of 142
primary health care centers (PHCs).


"Of the 15 PHCs completed to date, eight are currently open to
the public," the report said. Four health care centers were blown
up during the quarter.

