

The office of Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has used a
Saddam Hussein-era law to halt dozens of corruption-related
probes of government ministries, a US auditor's report said
Monday.


The report by the special inspector general for Iraq, Stuart
Bowen, said Iraq's Commission on Public Integrity (CPI) estimates
the cost of corruption at around five billion dollars a year.


The real cost of corruption is difficult to measure, the report
added, warning that "opportunities for corruption have
increased."


"The Prime Minister's Office has ordered CPI not to refer to any
investigative court any case involving a minister or former
minister without prior approval of the Prime Minister," Bowen's
quarterly report to Congress said.


In doing so, the prime minister has invoked a law originally
enacted in 1971 that requires that the minister of an affected
agency's give permission for a corruption case to go to trial.


The law was originally intended to be applied after an
investigation by an investigative judge, but is now being used to
stop investigations before an investigative judge has decided
whether to bring a case to trial, the report said.


The law, Article 136B of the Iraqi Criminal Procedure Code, had
been suspended by the US-led Coalition Provisional Authority that
ran Iraq before the restoration of sovereignty. It was reinstated
by the prime minister, the report said.


A review of corruption-related cases by the Iraq Reconstruction
Management Office "showed that ministers have stopped prosecution
and investigations on 48 cases involving 102 individuals under
Article 136B."


The report added that some observers believe that the law was "a
necessary check to an anticorruption effort that has become
politicized."


However, it said the head of the US embassy's Office of
Accountability and Transparency believes that the ministers'
power to halt investigations, as well as the lack of security for
investigators, "are hindering efforts to combat corruption in
Iraq."

