

Justine Henin is prepared for a gruelling schedule as she not
only begins her build-up for the defence of her French Open
title, but a bid for her first Wimbledon title after she has
twice finished as runner-up at the All England Club.


The world number one takes care to limit the number of
tournaments she plays in order to reduce the strain on her body,
and she has not competed for a month after conceding the Miami
final to Serena Williams.


But the petite Belgian cannot avoid the demands of a calendar
that places two Grand Slams almost back-to-back.


"It's going to be a couple of tough months," said Henin in
Warsaw, where she is seeded one at the J and S Cup.


"It's going to be busy with my preparation on clay, then the
French Open and then grass. But it was a nice break that I took.


"I really needed it because I wasn't very healthy after Miami. I
had some asthma problems so I really had to rest and get better.
The last week or 10 days I could really get into my preparation
for the clay. I hope I'm going to get a few matches here and in
Berlin and get ready for the French."


Although she has excelled on all surfaces, she believes the way
she can adapt to clay gives her an advantage over other players
on the surface.


"Clay is probably the surface where I have the best stats," said
Henin. "I won the French three times so it means that I probably
feel better on clay, even if I (also) have great results on
hardcourt or grass.


"But the surface I feel the best is clay, maybe because the other
players don't feel it as much. Not a lot of players can feel the
surface and slide and really organise their game to take
advantage of the surface.


"That's what I try to do, but physically you have to be at your
best level if you want to compete well on this surface. You have
to be a complete player to win on clay.


"For me the French Open remains for me the tournament where we
see the best tennis, the best matches, a lot of emotions there.
That's my point of view. Maybe the other players don't feel the
same, but I think it's a great tournament."


In opening day's play on Monday, fifth seeded Russian Nadia
Petrova had to work hard to overcome 16-year old Polish wild card
Katarzyna Piter, failing to serve out the match after breaking to
lead 5-4 but recovering to win 6-3, 7-5.


Sixth seed Anna Chakvetadze, also of Russia, had to work for
almost two hours before overcoming a gritty performance from
American Jill Craybas to win 7-6(6), 7-5.


Chakvetadze's serve was broken as she served for the opening set
at 5-4, but she edged through the tiebreak to claim the set on
her third set point. After a number of breaks in the second set,
Craybas held off four break points to hold for 4-4 and then broke
her frustrated opponent to serve for the set.


But Chakvetadze broke back with an easy forehand winner, and
broke again in the final game when Craybas hit a forehand long.


In a minor upset, eighth seed Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia was
beaten 6-3, 4-6, 6-1 by Ukraine's Alona Bondarenko.

