

Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party faces a drubbing in
local elections this week, polls suggest, in what experts warn
may foreshadow the end of its decade-long grip on British
politics.


The local and regional ballots come as Blair prepares to hand
over power after 10 years, almost certainly to his less
charismatic successor finance minister and erstwhile rival Gordon
Brown.


Blair is expected to make a resignation announcement within days
of Thursday's local council elections in England and Scotland,
and regional assembly polls in Scotland and Wales.


Analysts say Labour could lose 600-700 seats to the main
opposition Conservatives, while the Scottish National Party (SNP)
could grab the lion's share of seats in the devolved Scottish
parliament.


"These local elections are likely to be a bad omen for Labour at
the next general election," which is due in 2010 at the latest,
London School of Economics political analyst Tony Travers said.


In England some 10,500 seats are up for grabs in 312 local
authorities; in Wales voters are choosing a new 60-seat Welsh
Assembly, while in Scotland they are voting for the 129-member
Scottish parliament.


The Conservatives will be trying to secure an electoral
bridgehead for their eventual return to power which they lost in
1997 to New Labour -- the powerful pro-business centrist force
that Blair transformed from its leftwing roots.


The Tories have gradually overtaken Labour in the opinion polls
since reform- minded David Cameron became their leader 18 months
ago, with a goal to turn the right-wing party into a centrist and
electable force.


In his early 40s, the charismatic Cameron has often been compared
to the young Blair when he positioned Labour in the mid-1990s
before the first of its unprecedented three general election
victories.


In an editorial Saturday, The Daily Telegraph predicted "a
walloping for Labour" and a "good night" for the Conservatives,
but added that Cameron needed to produce an "excellent one".


Labour, Travers added, risks losing its activist base in southern
England the way that the Conservatives lost theirs in much of the
urban north in the 1980s and 1990s.


"Once you've lost this power base, it's very difficult to win it
back again," he said.


Even worse for Labour, most of its lawmakers fear the less
telegenic and populist Brown will be "an electoral handicap to
the party," said Phil Cowley, a professor at Nottingham
University, east central England.


Though he has gained kudos for his handling of the economy for
the last decade, Brown has been accused within his own party of
lacking the open temperament and deft political touch to run the
country.


With his political "honeymoon" likely to last a year at most,
Cowley said it would be wise for Brown to call "snap" elections
after he becomes prime minister, but doubted he would overcome
his "innate caution" to do so.


Particular attention will focus on Scotland Thursday.


With the SNP poised to do well, even become the largest party in
the 129-member Edinburgh assembly, Labour's place in the current
coalition with the Liberal Democrats is in doubt, Strathclyde
University's John Curtice suggests.


The SNP has also worried Labour with its calls for Scottish
independence, though Labour party members believe that opinion
polls showing majority support for independence contain hidden
protests against Labour's performance.


Finally, losses in Scotland would amount to a double blow for
Labour which has long enjoyed the region as a national support
base.


Labour's pospects in Wales are better, where opinion polls and
council by- election evidence suggest that support for the Plaid
Cymru nationalists may have peaked, according to the domestic
Press Association.


However, Labour may instead face losses to Conservatives and
independents, the PA said.

