

A spokesman for Mali's President Amadou Toumani Toure on Monday
claimed the incumbent leader had won a second five-year term in a
weekend election, but the opposition countered by crying foul.


"The curve is very clearly in favour of our candidate ... who is
largely ahead, according to the first results sent to us by our
representatives at the counting centres," Hassan Barry told AFP.


Said Barry: "In view of these results, he will be elected in the
first round with an overwhelming score."


If confirmed, that would mean Toure won an outright majority in
Sunday's election which would automatically make the president
the winner without the need for a knockout second round of
voting.


But the main opposition candidate, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita of the
Front for Democracy and the Republic, complained of massive
fraud.


"Voting was characterised by massive fraud, intimidation and
blackmail by an electoral machinery and an instrumentalised
administration with orders from candidate (Toure)," said Keita's
spokesman, Macky Diallo.


Keita is a former prime minister and head of the national
assembly, who came third in the 2002 polls.


A former cabinet minister and now opposition politician, Tiebile
Drame of the Party for National Revival, has also claimed
"widespread fraud" in the polls but gave no details.


Observers from the regional bloc Economic Community of West
African States said they believed Sunday's polling was overally
"free, fair and credible," despite "some insufficiencies noted
here and there," according to the head of their mission, former
Togolese prime minister Koffi Sama.


He said a few instances of multiple voting, fraudulent voter
identities had been detected, and minors acting as electoral
agents, but that "marginally affected the efficiency and quality
of the voting process."


About 1,000 observers were posted across the 1.2 million square
kilometre (478,800 square mile) country in the heart of west
Africa.


First official results were expected Monday, with full results
ready around Wednesday or Thursday.


A source in the registrar general's office which organises the
elections, also suggested Toure's was on his way to victory,
saying "it would appear that the outgoing president is largely
ahead."


Eight candidates vied for the top job in one of Africa's largest
but most impoverished countries, which has nonetheless been
praised for having made significant democratic strides in the
past 15 years.


Toure is a former general who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in
1991 and installed a multi-party system before stepping aside in
1992.


Ten years later he returned to the political scene, stood for
presidential elections and won easily.


The 58-year-old does not have a political party but enjoys the
backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small parties,
including the Tuareg ex-rebels who once waged a separatist war in
the northeast.


Overall voter turnout was low with the the national independent
electoral commission (CENI) estimating that it hovered around 38
percent of the potential 6.8 million voters. It said that was
similar level to that recorded in 2002 elections.


Despite being the third largest gold producer in Africa after
South Africa and Ghana, the former French colony is the world's
third poorest country, according to the United Nations.

