

The issue of independence is hanging over Thursday's Scottish
Parliament elections, but in the town most synonymous with
separatism, locals seem altogether non-plussed at the idea.


Bannockburn is etched in the memory of every Scot, after Robert
the Bruce defeated the hated English here in 1314 and sent them
packing.


But 61-year-old retired joiner Bill Smith is not taken with
Bruce's modern-day political heirs, the Scottish National Party
(SNP), who are ahead in the polls and want a referendum on the
continued union with England and Wales.


"I just don't think we could survive by ourselves," he says over
a lunchtime pint in the Tartan Arms pub, where the SNP celebrates
Bruce's victory at the Battle of Bannockburn each year.


"Maybe years ago when we had industry, when oil first started.
But oil is not going to last forever. Shipbuilding, the
steelworks... they're all gone. If we were going to be
independent, we would have to start from scratch."


And when push comes to shove, the governing Labour Party's
warnings that independence will hit the stereotypically thrifty
Scots in the pocket might make possible SNP supporters think
again, he adds.


At the bar, John Fitzpatrick, 73, looks up from his Guinness and
says he'd rather keep the union, which was agreed in 1707 and
signed away Bruce and "Braveheart" William Wallace's hard-won
sovereignty.


"I just think it would be a bad thing selling off the country,"
the former engineer says, unable to say why exactly.


Outside, one woman heading for the hairdresser's believes an
independent Scotland would require "massive" European Union
subsidy.


"They (nationalists) don't want to be governed by anyone else but
they're going to be governed by Brussels if they get their so-
called independence," she says, declining to give her name.


Inside the Ladbrokes betting shop, the cashier says no-one there
has sought odds on either the election winner or independence,
although nationally they've had a flurry of bets on the SNP.


But nearby, Bruce Crawford, the SNP's constituency candidate for
Stirling -- where Wallace defeated the English in 1297 -- is out
campaigning and undeterred.


He dismisses AFP's straw poll -- and those which put support for
independence at only 30 percent: fifty percent of Scots back
independence, while 80 percent back the idea of a referendum on
it, he says.


The SNP has pledged to publish plans for a referendum within 100
days of forming a coalition government, with a likely vote in
2010, although opposition parties have vowed to fight it tooth
and nail.


Crawford admits people still need to be convinced, blaming Labour
and the "London parties" for a "smears and fears" campaign.


There's particular scorn for Labour's claim that individual
Scottish tax-payers would be 5,000 pounds (7,300 euros, 10,000
dollars) a year worse off.


He's convinced Scotland could follow smaller countries like
Ireland, Iceland and Norway and prosper in the modern, globalised
world.


Slovenia -- independent in 1991 but holders of the EU presidency
in 2008 -- and once-bankrupt but now prosperous Finland are also
positive models, he adds.


"There's absolutely no doubt that Scotland has the resources both
natural and human to make a very good fist of being independent,"
he says.


Independence would give Scotland a voice in Europe and on the
world stage, he says.


On the union, Crawford says close ties will continue economically
and socially, but a new partnership is needed in the 21st
century.


As for the oil and gas, he adds: "The reality is that three
billion pounds have come out the North Sea. There's 55 billion
left."


Like Norway, Scotland would use revenue from its oil and gas
industry for a futures fund to underpin public services,
Crawford, who is also SNP chairman, explains.

