

The United States and European Union formally signed an "open
skies" accord Monday aimed at opening up more competition in
transatlantic aviation.


The agreement, the fruit of several years of negotiations, will
take effect next March 30 and will eliminate most limitations on
US and EU airlines' ability to fly between the two continents.


"With this agreement, the honeymoon in Paris, the business trip
to Dublin, and family reunion in Naples will be cheaper, easier,
and within the reach of more Americans than ever before," said US
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters after the pact was signed on
the sidelines of a US-EU summit in Washington.


"Also, better access to American destinations means European
visitors will bring new business to our local communities."


"This agreement is both a centerpiece for today's reinvigorated
transatlantic relationship and a big step forward in
international aviation," said EU Commission Vice President and
Transportation Commissioner Jacques Barrot.


Both sides hold out the promise of cheaper airfares and more
choice for passengers under the hard-fought agreement.


The European Union estimates it could generate more than 26
million extra passengers over the next five years and create
80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa. But EU airlines will still not be able to operate
domestic US routes.


Unanimous EU agreement on the deal was possible only after
ministers overcame British reservations about competition out of
Heathrow, by delaying the date of application to the end of March
2008.


The agreement also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying big
stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25 percent, to the chagrin of
Britain.


EU officials said their "ultimate objective" is to go even
further by creating an "Open Aviation Area" -- a single air
transport market between the EU and the US "in which investment
can flow freely and in which European and US airlines can provide
air services without any restriction," according to an EU
statement.


The EU said negotiations for the next phase of deregulation would
start no later than May 30, 2008.

