

Prince Harry will deploy to Iraq, the head of the British army
said Monday, after speculation that he may not go because of
fears he could be targeted by insurgents.


But General Sir Richard Dannatt also said he could yet change his
mind, if circumstances change.


"I have taken the decision as chief of general staff. It's my
decision as chief of general staff. I have full command of
everyone in the army, including Prince Harry," he said in a
statement.


"The decision has been taken by myself that he (Harry) will
deploy with his regiment in due course."


Dannatt said the decision had been taken after the "widest
possible consultation."


"I will of course keep that decision continually under review and
if circumstances are such that I change that decision, I will
make a further statement," he told Sky News.


Speculation has been rife about Harry's deployment with the Blues
and Royals regiment since the decision was announced in February.
The regiment was expected to begin its six-month tour of duty in
May.


British media have said the second lieutenant -- or Cornet Wales
as he is known in the Blues and Royals -- could be pulled from
the front line because of the threat of kidnap or death and his
presence could put comrades in danger.


Any decision to pull him out is likely to infuriate the third-in-
line to the throne, who has said there was "no way" he would
train to become an officer, then sit around while his soldiers
fought.


Harry, 22, is responsible for 11 soldiers and four Scimitar
reconnaissance vehicles.


An unnamed Household Cavalary regiment source told the domestic
Press Association news agency last week that Harry would resign
if he is not allowed to go.


April has been one of the deadliest months for British forces in
Iraq since the US-led invasion of March 2003. To date 12 lives
have been lost, including a corporal doing Harry's armoured
reconnaissance troop leader job.


Harry would become the first British royal to see active service
since his uncle Prince Andrew flew helicopters in the 1982
Falklands War with Argentina.

