

Novak Djokovic drew a chorus of football-inspired jeers as he
donned the crimson stripe of Portuguese powerhouse Benfica after
scraping to a laboured 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7/5) opening victory on
Monday at the Estoril Open.


The third seed had to work to overcome Russian Igor Andreev in
the first round, taking two hours 42 minutes to advance.


"This match was really difficult, I knew that before the start,"
said the teenage tyro tipped for the top of the sport.


"Andreev prefers this surface.


"I'm not so pleased with my form, but I have to look on the
positive side. It was good to get through such a tough match as
this one. It can only help in the next round."


The Serb now ranked a career high fifth in the world, was still
riding a wave of emotion after attending a league match on Sunday
where Benfica drew 1-1 with Sporting Lisbon.


The 19-year-old winner said that the colours of Benfica were the
deciding factor: "Red is my colour, I support Benfica, AC Milan
and Manchester United."


Djokovic, who had a great hardcourt season winning a Masters
Series event in Miami after losing the Indian Wells final to
Rafael Nadal, is making a slow start to his clay season after
winning just one match at Monte Carlo in his first outing.


But he couldn't have asked for a tougher test than Andreev, the
last man to beat Nadal on clay more than a year ago.


The winner will next face Spain's Santiago Ventura, who defeated
Argentine Sergio Roitman 7-5, 6-2 on a day of wind and changing
conditions.


In another result at the Estadio Nacional, Argentine Juan Monaco,
winner on clay already this season having won the Buenos Aires
tournament in February, knocked out slumping French eighth seed
Gael Monfils 7-5, 1-6, 6-2.


The 20-year-old loser has now lost both of his clay contests in
2007 in a dreadful start to the pre-Roland Garros campaign.


Argentine hope Juan Del Potro beat Colombian Alejandro Falla 1-6,
6-2, 6-4.


Russian Nikolay Davydenko, who lost in the final last year to
Argentinian David Nalbandian, is top seed at the event, which he
won in 2003.


But the world number four will not start until Wednesday after
suffering a wrist injury during a massage last week in Barcelona.


Second seed Tommy Robredo, the 2005 finalist who got in on a wild
card after Briton Andy Murray withdrew to rest a back injury,
opens on Tuesday against fellow Spaniard Albert Montanes.


In the women's WTA event, third seeded Czech Lucie Safarova beat
Aravane Rezai of France 7-6 (7/5), 7-5 while number five Russian
Olga Poutchkova beat compatriot Anatassia Rodionova 6-3, 4-6, 7-6
(7/5).

