

The Manhattan, a high-rise complex a stone's throw from Macau's
glitzy new casino district, is something of a rarity as it
prepares to throw open its doors to well-heeled residents next
month.


For a start, the twin towers have been built on the only plot of
freehold land in the southern Chinese territory. And it is
Macau's only luxury housing development.


While the skyline in Hong Kong, just an hour away by ferry, is
dotted with towering monuments to the high-life, Macau has been
late getting on the top of the real estate bandwagon despite its
recent casino-led economic boom.


That, however, could be about to change.


With an estimated 25 billion US dollars in overseas investment
committed to the city's renewed casino sector, investors are
beginning to look beyond the roulette and baccarat tables for a
good punt.


"We are only at the beginning of the story for Macau," enthused
Guy Hollis, international director of property and investment
management giant Jones Lang LaSalle.


"The underlying fundamentals are strong, and we think that the
jobs being created and the opportunities being created point
towards Macau being a good place for long-term investments."


Macau, a former Portuguese enclave, has been Asia's chief
gambling haven for more than a century.


Nevertheless, it was not until 2001, when the Beijing-backed
government of the largely autonomous city relaxed casino
ownership rules, that the sector really began to take off.


The move allowed foreign companies to take a piece of a gambling
pie that had previously been monopolised by ageing tycoon Stanley
Ho.


The deregulation of the industry brought in a flood of new
American-style casino-hotels that have been a big hit with
mainland Chinese travellers, newly freed from formerly
restrictive travel laws.


Since 2004, the income has transformed Macau from a crime- ridden
decrepit no-go zone to a flourishing family holiday destination.
And as well as punters in search of a lucky break on the tables,
the city is attracting the world's investment banks and high-
flying financiers.


"Wall Street is here," as Jonathan Galaviz, partner with gaming
and travel research analyst Globalysis, put it.


The economic good times have seen rents rocket, according to
Hollis. By his reckoning, average apartments that were going for
300-400 Hong Kong dollars a month five years ago are now fetching
up to 6,000 dollars today.


"The average Macau resident cannot afford property here any
more," Hollis told a gathering of financiers backing the casino
sector's redevelopment.


That sort of growth has attracted property speculators. However,
they have encountered a brick wall, as a combination of red tape,
lack of transparency and scarcity of space means there has been
little or no construction in which investors can place their
money.


"There is going to be a major housing shortage unless the
government gets to grips with this," said Dan Tagliere, principal
and co-founder of MacauLand, the lead developer of The Manhattan.


"The conservative estimate is that 70,000 new jobs will be
created by the new casinos, but I think that number is going to
be double."


Most of the housing stock in Macau is public accommodation which
was built by the then government to house the influx of people
fleeing China's Cultural Revolution.


But Macau's tiny size -- it covers just 27 square kilometres
(10.4 square miles) and already houses half a million people --
makes further development difficult.


A huge 100,000 square metre reclamation that has been earmarked
to house 20 casinos and hotels in the Cotai Strip has been
strictly zoned for commercial use only, depriving developers of
the chance to build holiday condominiums near their properties.


One alternative is to build across the border in southern China's
Zhuhai, a city that emerged in the shadow of Macau, like Shenzhen
did near Hong Kong.


"Why don't people live there already? Because the border is not a
24-hour border," said Richard Yue, chief executive of private
equity firm ARCH Capital, which is investing heavily in Macau.


"We have an ideal commuter city across the border," he added,
"but red tape is preventing that."

