

The so-called "DC Madam" accused of running an upscale Washington
escort agency said Monday she was "sorry" that a top official had
been outed as her client, but vowed thousands more names would be
revealed unless charges against her were dropped.


Deborah Jeane Palfrey, who is facing charges of running a 300
-dollar-an-hour prostitution service for 13 years, appeared in a
Washington court on Monday for a preliminary hearing.


Palfrey denies doing anything illegal through her business Pamela
Martin & Associates, but has said she has a record of the
phone numbers of thousands of more than 10,000 customers that
could embarrass more than a few of the US capital's high-fliers.


On Friday the head of the US Agency for International Development
(USAID), Randall Tobias, resigned for personal reasons, but ABC
news said he stepped down after the network contacted him about
using the service.


"Tobias was a customer of my previous business, Pamela Martin
& Associates," Palfrey confirmed on Monday.


"Allow me to say how genuinely sorry I am for Mr. Tobias, his
family and his friends," Palfrey told reporters outside the
courtroom.


Just the same, Palfrey promised that her telephone records -- all
46 pounds of them -- would be revealed unless the charges against
her were dropped.


Palfrey, 50, appeared in court Monday in a somber mood matched by
a dark-blue suit and simple hair style. Her bright red lipstick
was the only decorative touch as she sat at the defense table.


Palfrey argued she had no funds available as her three homes and
several cars had been seized by the government.


Judge Gladys Kessler tossed out her civil lawyer, replaced him
with a public defender whom Palfrey rejected and then denied her
motion that the government cough up 150,000 dollars to pay the
lawyer of her choice.


In a small victory, Kessler ordered the removal of an electronic
monitoring anklet that a court had forced Palfrey to wear so she
would not flee from another case in California.


"I got the electronic monitor off, so things are going in the
right direction," Palfrey told AFP.


She has maintained that her business offered legal "sexual
fantasies," not sex, as one of many so-called escort services
that fill a dozen or so pages of Washington telephone
directories.


Palfrey claims her "girls" were private contractors and if they
engaged in illegal sex for money, she said, it was without her
approval.


If she must defend herself, Palfrey said, she will use the phone
records as a witness list.


"I'm sure as heck not going to be going to federal prison for one
day, let alone, four to eight years, because I'm shy about
bringing in the deputy secretary of whatever," Palfrey told ABC,
which will air an interview Friday.


"I'll bring in every last one of them in if necessary," she said.


Palfrey said she did her best to keep the names private, but "it
was only when government attorneys ... refused every reasonable
offer ... did I make the determination to utilize the records for
my defense," she said Monday.

