

The UN Security Council on Monday urged Morocco and the
separatist Polisario Front to launch direct, UN-sponsored talks
without preconditions for self- determination in the disputed
Western Sahara.


The 15-member body unanimously adopted a resolution that also
took note of the two parties' rival plans to settle their 32
-year-old dispute and renewed the mandate of the UN Mission for
the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) for another six
months.


The text, which was sponsored by France, Russia, Spain, Britain
and the United States, took note of Morocco's April 11 plan and
welcomed "serious and credible Moroccan efforts to move the
process forward toward resolution."


Morocco has proposed an autonomy referendum in Western Sahara
that envisages giving Sahrawis "control over their affairs
through legislative, executive and judicial institutions" under
Moroccan sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for a political
solution acceptable to all parties."


The council also took note of the Algerian-backed Polisario
Front's rival plan, which rejected the Moroccan proposal and
upheld "the right of the (local) people for self-determination."


Morocco's UN Ambassador El Mostafa Sahel hailed passage of the
resolution, saying it ushers in "a new process of negotiation, a
new way to reach a negotiated political solution of this
question."


"The negotiations must be serious and credible also," he added.


Polisario's chief negotiator Mhamed Khadad however noted that
despite the support it enjoyed "from some powers to have its plan
endorsed as the exclusive basis for a settlement, Morocco
miserably failed once again in its bid to legitimize its colonial
fact in Western Sahara."


He said the text underscored the need for a "just, lasting and
mutually acceptable political solution which will provide for the
self-determination of the people of Western Sahara."


The new US ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad,
welcomed the fact that both Morocco and the Polisario "have
agreed" to begin direct talks as requested by the council and UN
chief Ban Ki-moon.


In a report released earlier this month, Ban said the 15-member
council should call on the parties to negotiate without
preconditions "with a view to achieving a just, lasting and
mutually acceptable political solution that will provide for the
self-determination of the people of Western Sahara."


South Africa's UN Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo however expressed
regret that the reference to "serious and credible Moroccan
efforts" conveyed the impression that Rabat's plan is better than
the Polisario proposal.


"We are totally open to starting direct negotiations with the
kingdom of Morocco under the guidance of the UN secretary general
to allow the people of Western Sahara exercise their right to
determine their future," Mohamed Beisat of the Polisario Front
said in Algiers Sunday.


And Polisario's UN representative Ahmed Bujari told reporters
here Monday that if the people of Western Sahara decided to opt
for independence in a referendum, "We are ready to establish a
strategic relationship with Morocco in terms of economical,
commercial and security cooperation."


The resolution asked the UN secretary general to "set up
negotiations under his auspices and invites member states to lend
appropriate assistance to such talks."


It also requested Ban to provide a report by next June 30 on the
status and progress of these negotiations.


Morocco annexed the desolate northwest African territory after
the withdrawal of the region's former colonial power Spain and
neighbor Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it with around 300,000
Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front, an armed
group which contested Rabat's sovereignty, that ended in 1991
with a UN-brokered cease-fire.

