

The number of people killed by terrorists worldwide last year
soared more than 40 percent to 20,498, due mainly to devastating
sectarian attacks on civilians in Iraq, according to a US
government report released Monday.


The State Department's annual "Country Reports on Terrorism" also
skewered Iran and Syria as the worst state sponsors of terror,
just days before Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice could break
a long-standing diplomatic boycott and meet her counterparts from
the two nations.


According to figures provided by the US National Counterterrorism
Center which groups data from 16 US intelligence agencies, the
number of terrorist incidents rose nearly 30 percent to 14,338 in
2006, from 11,153 in 2005.


The increase was due almost entirely to a doubling of attacks in
Iraq, four years after the US-led invasion which toppled Saddam
Hussein, it said.


The center counted 6,630 terrorist attacks during the year in
Iraq, primarily linked to sectarian violence between majority
Shiites and the minority Sunnis who controlled the country under
Saddam.


Worldwide, the number of people killed in terror-related
incidents went from 14,618 in 2005 to 20,498 last year, said the
report, which is mandated by Congress.


Incidents categorized by the report as terrorism also escalated
dramatically in Afghanistan, where the number of incidents rose
from 491 to 749, including a spate of suicide bombings attributed
to the Taliban militia which is fighting to return to power after
being ousted in a US-led military drive following the September
11, 2001, Al-Qaeda attacks on the United States.


The figures did not include attacks on US troops in Iraq or
Afghanistan.


The escalation of deadly violence in Iraq could be politically
explosive for the administration of President George W. Bush, who
is locked a stalemate with Congress over continued funding for a
war largely justified by the government as a way to stop
terrorism.


The State Department report made no change to its list of State
Sponsors of Terrorism, which like in 2005 were led by Iran and
Syria and included Cuba, North Korea and Sudan.


Venezuela, led by anti-US firebrand President Hugo Chavez, was
not added to the list but remained the only other country deemed
as "not fully cooperating" with the global fight against
terrorism.


The report said Iran "remained the most active state sponsor of
terrorism," with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and
Ministry of Intelligence and Security accused of direct
involvement in planning and supporting acts of terror in Iraq and
aiding Palestinian and Lebanese "terrorist" groups.


Syria drew the same charges in the report, which also noted the
"strong likelihood" of Damascus's involvement in the February
2005 assassination in Beirut of former Lebanese prime minister
Rafiq Hariri.


The report came out just three days before Rice is due to attend
an international conference on Iraq that will also include her
counterparts from Syria and Iran.


Rice over the weekend would not rule out direct talks with the
officials, which would break previous Bush administration policy
of trying to isolate the allied regimes.

