

Embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz said Monday he was
the victim of a trumped up "smear campaign" aimed at forcing him
to resign his position.


In a tough statement, Wolfowitz also said he would not quit in
the face of a "bogus charge," as he defended himself against
allegations he improperly pushed a generous bank pay deal for his
girlfriend.


At a meeting with a World Bank investigatory committee, the
former Pentagon number two pleaded his case over the firestorm
linked to the pay deal for his girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


Meanwhile US President George W. Bush offered his support to
Wolfowitz at a White House press conference, saying he thought
the World Bank chief "ought to stay" in his post.


The bank committee, drawn from the full board of 24
representatives, is examining not just the Riza affair, but also
Wolfowitz's hiring of former White House aides to influential,
and highly paid, jobs in his inner circle.


A report in The Washington Post Saturday said the bank panel had
already concluded that Wolfowitz breached ethics in engineering
the pay raise for Riza, but remained locked in debate over
whether to call explicitly for his resignation.


Wolfowitz signalled his intention to fight the charges against
him.


"The goal of this smear campaign, I believe, is to create a self-
fulfilling prophecy that I am an ineffective leader and must step
down for that reason alone," he said in a statement also released
to the media.


"I, for one, will not give into such tactics. And, I will not
resign in the face of a plainly bogus charge of conflict of
interest."


Wolfowitz was flanked at the meeting by Robert Bennett, a
prominent Washington lawyer who helped former president Bill
Clinton settle a sexual harassment case in 1998.


Bennett told AFP ahead of the meeting that the allegations
against his client were "absolutely false."


"They have some policy disputes with him and there are some
international power issues," the lawyer had said, referring to
long-standing European suspicion of Wolfowitz.


The hearing coincided with a Washington summit between Bush and
the European Union, represented by German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, whose members believe Wolfowitz is now a liability.


Wolfowitz told the panel he acted in good faith in the Riza case,
on the advice of the bank's ethics committee, in trying to
resolve a potential conflict of interest between himself and Riza
after he became president in June 2005.


But officials contend that he was never directed to personally
order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth nearly 200,000
dollars for his Libyan-born companion when she was reassigned
from the bank to work at the US State Department.


Wolfowitz contradicted such claims, telling the panel that the
World Bank's ethics committee had instructed him in clear terms
to implement his girlfriend's promotion and pay hikes.


"The agreement reached with Ms. Riza was in line with other World
Bank settlement agreements and was consistent with the goals that
the ethics committee set out for treating her fairly," Wolfowitz
said.


He also said that hundreds of World Bank staffers, employed at
the bank's Washington headquarters, earn more than Riza, a
communications specialist.


Critics have pointed out that Riza ended up being paid more than
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her stint at the State
Department, but Wolfowitz said "hundreds of them earn more than
the US Secretary of State."


He said the pay range of other bank staffers at Riza's pay grade
was between 132,000 and 232,000 dollars, tax-free.


Critics say the World Bank's credibility is being shredded, not
least over a campaign spearheaded by Wolfowitz to root out
corruption.

