

The so-called "DC Madam" accused of running an upscale Washington
escort agency said Monday she was "sorry" that a top official had
been outed as her client, but vowed thousands more names would be
revealed unless charges against her are dropped.


Deborah Jeane Palfrey, who is facing charges of running a 300
-dollar-an-hour prostitution service for 13 years, appeared in a
Washington court on Monday for a preliminary hearing.


Palfrey denies doing anything illegal through her business Pamela
Martin and Associates, but has said she has a record of the phone
numbers of thousands of more than 10,000 customers that could
embarrass more than a few of the US capital's high-fliers.


On Friday the head of the US Agency for International Development
(USAID), Randall Tobias, resigned for personal reasons, but ABC
news said he stepped down after the network contacted him about
using the service.


"Deputy Secretary of State Randall L. Tobias was a customer of my
previous business, Pamela Martin & Associates," Palfrey
confirmed on Monday.


"Allow me to say how genuinely sorry I am for Mr. Tobias, his
family and his friends," Palfrey told reporters outside the
courtroom.


But Palfrey promised that her telephone records -- all 46 pounds
of them -- would be revealed unless the charges against her are
dropped.


She appeared in court Monday in a somber mood that matched her
dark-blue ensemble, hair simply pulled back and bright red
lipstick the only decorative touch as she sat at the defense
table.


Then things got difficult. Judge Gladys Kessler tossed out her
civil lawyer, replaced him with a public defender whom Palfrey
rejected and then denied her motion that the government cough up
150,000 dollars to pay the lawyer of her choice.


Palfrey argued she had no funds available as her three homes and
several cars have been seized by the government.


However, Kessler ordered that an electronic monitoring anklet be
removed that a California court had forced Palfrey to wear so she
would not flee from another case.


Despite the setbacks, Palfrey said she was pleased with the
hearing.


"I got the electronic monitor off, so things are going in the
right direction," Palfrey told AFP.


Palfrey has maintained that her business offered "sexual
fantasies" as one of many so-called escort services that fill a
dozen or so pages of Washington telephone directories.

