

Queen Elizabeth II heads to the United States for the first time
in 16 years on Thursday to mark the 400th anniversary of the
first permanent English settlement in North America at Jamestown,
Virginia.


The 81-year-old monarch's trip is her fourth state visit there.
Her first visit in 1957 saw her attend the 350th anniversary
celebrations at Jamestown.


"The theme of the visit is the historic links and bonds of
friendship between the United Kingdom and the United States,"
said a senior royal official, speaking on customary condition of
anonymity.


It will mark the shared history and heritage as well as future
partnerships in science, education and innovation, she added
during a pre-trip briefing at the queen's official London
residence, Buckingham Palace.


The visit comes just weeks after the Virginia Tech massacre in
which 32 students and teachers were killed in the United States'
worst mass shooting.


The queen will pay tribute to the victims during her time in the
eastern US state. Details are still being finalised but a royal
visit to the campus has been ruled out.


Although Jamestown is the focus for the busy six-day trip, the
queen will also fulfil a lifelong ambition to watch the Kentucky
Derby, the first of the US Triple Crown racing events that takes
place in Louisville on May 5.


The queen is a lifelong racing fan and still a keen horsewoman,
despite her advancing years. She and her husband, Prince Philip,
85, are regular fixtures at the annual Epsom Derby and Royal
Ascot flat racing events in Britain.


"This is an event that she, of course, is looking forward to,"
the spokeswoman said.


On Thursday, she will be in Richmond, Virginia, to address the
Virginia General Assembly legislature. Previous speakers there
include former British prime ministers Winston Churchill in 1946
and Margaret Thatcher in 1995.


The following day's visit to Jamestown, which was settled by 104
English colonists in 1607, 13 years before the more famous
Pilgrim Fathers, will see her tour the site that attracts more
than 19 million visitors each year.


From there she will visit William and Mary College in
Williamsburg, which was founded by England's king William III and
queen Mary II in 1693 and is the second-oldest higher education
institution in the United States.


There she will meet students and academic alumni, including Nobel
and Pulitzer prize winners, plus students from the Marshall and
Rhodes scholarship student exchange programme.


Former naval officer Prince Philip will meanwhile meet Pacific
campaign veterans at the National Maritime Centre in Norfolk on
board the USS Wisconsin, which, like him, was at Tokyo Bay for
the Japanese surrender in 1945.


After their day at the races on Saturday, the couple fly to
Washington on Sunday and meet US President George W. Bush and
wife Laura at the White House on Monday.


Tuesday is taken up with a tour of NASA's Goddard Space Flight
Center, where the queen will drop in on mission control for the
International Space Station.


The royal couple will also visit the World War II National
Memorial and give a return banquet for the Bushes at the British
ambassador's residence.


The queen will travel on a private charter British Airways Boeing
777 jet with an entourage of about 35, including Foreign Office
representatives.


Royal officials said it will be the first time carbon dioxide
emissions from her flights to, from and within the United States
will be offset, with money going to environmentally-friendly
projects such as tree-planting.


It follows an announcement by the queen's son and heir, Prince
Charles, that he was to reduce the "carbon footprint" of overseas
royal visits by "greening" his transport.

