

US President George W. Bush, conceding he had more work to do to
overcome Russia's strong objections to a planned missile shield,
said Monday that the proposed system was in Moscow's interest.


"It's in your interests to have a system that could prevent a
future Iranian regime, for example, from launching a weapon. It's
in Russia's security interests," he said on the sidelines of an
annual US-Europe summit.


At an annual US-Europe summit, Bush said he had launched an
aggressive diplomatic dialogue with Moscow and noted that US
Defense Secretary Robert Gates had recently traveled there to
mollify Russian objections.


"We have started a dialogue -- as a result of Secretary Gates'
visit -- that hopefully will make explicit our intentions, and
hopefully present an opportunity to share with the Russians, so
that they don't see us as an antagonistic force but see us as a
friendly force," he said.


"Our intention, of course, is to have a defense system that
prevents rogue regimes from holding Western Europe and/or America
to hostage. Evidently, the Russians view it differently," he
said.


Bush said he had sent Gates at the suggestion of German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, who holds the rotating presidencies of
the EU and the Group of Eight (G8) industrialized nations and
attended the summit here.


"Upon the advice of the chancellor, I asked Secretary Gates to go
to Moscow, where he had a very constructive meeting with
(Russian) President (Vladimir) Putin. I called President Putin
and asked him to see Secretary Gates, and that we would put forth
an interesting information-sharing proposal.


"Our intention is to say to Russia that the system is something
you ought to think about participating in," said Bush.


Bush discussed the missile defense plan on April 23, as Moscow
rebuffed Gates in his attempt to soften opposition to
Washington's plan for a missile defense shield in Europe, saying
it threatens global security.


Putin has even said that the proposed deployment would increase
the threat of mutual destruction


The US has proposed siting 10 missiles in Poland and a targeting
radar in the Czech Republic by 2012 and has said they would be
oriented toward ballistic missile threats from the south.


But Moscow's opposition to the US deployment is steadily
hardening, fueling East-West tensions already heightened over
differences on independence for Kosovo, Putin's record on
democracy, and Russian energy export policies.


On Thursday, Putin stunned Western capitals when he announced
suspension of Moscow's participation in the Soviet-era
Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, which imposes strict
limits on troop deployments across the continent.


Putin said this was in response to the planned US missile shield.

