

The US Supreme Court on Monday refused to hear a case brought by
two detainees at the US prison in Guantanamo Bay, who were
contesting the legality of the base's military courts.


The court did not give any reason for refusing to hear the case,
but said three of the nine judges had been in favor of proceeding
with the hearing.


Yemeni national Salim Ahmed Hamdan and Canadian Omar Khadr, who
are about to face military trial at Guantanamo, had urged the
Supreme Court earlier in April to rule on their legal rights
before proceedings begin.


The two men said they did not have time to pursue other legal
avenues to see if they were protected under the US constitution
because their day in military court is fast approaching.


Both men are among the first Guantanamo prisoners the US
government intends to prosecute this summer in special military
courts, known as military commissions.


"The time to hear this particular case is now," the petitioners
had said in their brief.


"Petitioners are irreparably harmed by having to defend
themselves in trials where they are kept ignorant as to whether
or not the constitution protects them and governs the procedures
by which their prosecutions are allowed to proceed."


Earlier in April, the US high court ruled that dozens of
Guantanamo Bay inmates had no right to challenge their detention
in federal court and that they had not exhausted all other legal
options.


Omar Khadr, arrested in Afghanistan at 15, was charged on April
24 with murder and supporting terrorists.


He is only the second detainee brought before the controversial
special tribunals.


Khadr was born in Canada to an engineer of Egyptian origin, Ahmed
Said Khadr, who US authorities say was a financier of Al-Qaeda.
He was killed in October 2003 in an attack by Pakistani forces on
the terrorist network.


Salim Ahmed Hamdan, former driver for Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden, was arrested in Afghanistan in November 2001 and was
charged with conspiracy in July 2003 before a military tribunal.


However, he challenged the legality of the tribunals set up after
the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States and the
detention of combatants, mostly on the battlefields of
Afghanistan, who were taken to Guantanamo, Cuba.


The Supreme Court took up his case and agreed with his argument,
saying that President George W. Bush had overstepped his
authority by instituting the tribunals.


In October, Bush signed a law allowing the tribunals to try
"enemy combatants" with suspected ties to Al-Qaeda or the Taliban
regime that formerly ruled Afghanistan.


Opened in January 2002, the Guantanamo detention center has some
380 prisoners, of whom 80 are to be transferred or released.


Between 60 and 80 of them are to be taken before a tribunal. Some
200 others are not scheduled to be charged or released.


The first to be judged, Australian David Hicks, was sentenced on
March 9 to nine months in prison after pleading guilty to giving
assistance to a terrorist group. He is to complete his sentence
in Australia.

