

Russia called Monday for Estonia's government to resign for
allowing police brutality as a row over the removal of a Soviet
war memorial from a prime site in the Estonian capital deepened.


The call came from a Russian parliamentary delegation that was
sent to Tallinn after riots erupted there last week leaving more
than 150 people injured and one Russian national dead.


Two of the leading delegates from the Russian Duma or lower house
snubbed talks with the Estonian side at the foreign ministry,
instead holding lengthy discussions with police officials.


They then held a separate press conference at the Russian embassy
where they accused Estonian law enforcement officers of brutality
in their crackdown on rioters.


"The brutal handling of people by the Estonian police during
disturbances on April 27 and 28 is unacceptable," said Leonid
Slutsky, deputy head of the Duma's Foreign Affairs Committee.


"The government of an EU (European Union) member state in the
21st century, which displays such gross violations of human
rights, must stand down," he said.


Leading Russian delegate Nikolai Kovalyov, who heads the Duma's
Committee on War Veterans' Affairs, told reporters that police
did too little to save the life of a Russian who died on
Thursday's first night of unrest.


"A citizen of the Russian Federation, Dmitri Ganin, died from
injuries, and we have serious questions about why no medical
assistance was provided to him for one hour and 40 minutes,"
Kovalyov said.


"His life could have been saved if he had been qualified medical
assistance, but the police did not call an ambulance and no
proper assistance was given to him."


The Estonian authorities, who on Monday erected the controversial
statue called the Bronze Soldier at a new location in a Tallinn
war cemetery, deplored "serious differences" between the two
sides.


"The talks held with our Russian counterparts today showed that
we have serious differences over the interpretation of 50 years
of history," Estonian deputy parliamentary speaker Kristiina
Ojuland said.


She said the Russian delegation had also asked for "everyone who
was detained by police during the riots to be set free."


Almost all of nearly 1,000 people detained over the riots have
been released, but criminal investigations had been launched
against 81 of them, police spokesman Priit Talv told AFP Monday.


The statue is seen by Russians as a sacred memorial to Red Army
soldiers who died fighting the Nazis in World War II, while many
Estonians see it as a painful reminder of the long and brutal
Soviet occupation of their country.


The row was complicated further when forensic scientists
unearthed 12 coffins from the ground underneath where the Bronze
Soldier originally stood. At least six of them contained the
remains of Soviet soldiers.

