

Canadian authorities were warned before the 1985 Air India
bombing that killed 329 people that an airline attack was
imminent, an inquiry was told Monday.


An unidentified Sikh man facing unrelated charges told
authorities in October 1984 of a plot "to place a bomb on an Air
India plane" in a bid for leniency from the courts, former
Vancouver Police Department officer Rick Crook said.


The plan was "to strike at the government of India" for its
attack on the sacred Golden Temple at Amritsar, the suspect said
in a police interview, according to a transcript read by Crook at
the inquiry which resumed Monday.


"There was a plan to place a bomb on an Air India plane in
Montreal," Crook testified, adding that he learned in an
interview with the suspect that an "Air India 747" leaving from
Montreal would be targeted.


The suspect said "a small group of people" were involved in the
plot, but did not identify them, he said.


Crook, who was part of the department's Indo-Canadian community
liaison team, said he was mostly unfamiliar with Sikh extremism
in Canada at the time and questioned the informer's honesty.


Still, the information was passed on to the fledgling Canadian
Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), he said, noting the case
was "beyond (his department's) capabilities" to investigate.


The blast killed 329 passengers and crew members, including 280
Canadians, off the coast of Ireland in the world's worst airline
attack prior to the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United
States.


Prosecutors blamed radical orthodox Sikh immigrants to Canada,
saying the bombing was payback for the Indian government's 1984
army attack on the Sikhs' Golden Temple.


But the only person jailed over the airline attack was bomb-maker
Inderjit Singh Reyat, who now faces perjury charges over his
testimony at the trial of two men acquitted in the plot in 2005.


The alleged mastermind of the plot, Talwinder Singh Parmar, was
killed in a police shootout in India in 1992.


According to reports, other warnings came from the Indian
government and Air India itself, which told Canada's federal
police three weeks before the bombing that Sikh extremists in
Canada were planning to bomb Air India flights.


Vancouver police had also monitored a meeting of Sikh militants
while CSIS agents followed plot leader Parmar to a test bombing
on Vancouver Island.


Since the bombing, Canadian governments have insisted the threat
was not clear.


But a censored version of a top-secret 1992 parliamentary
committee report described many warnings and concluded: "There is
no doubt that the government of India warned Canada on a number
of occasions that Air India operations were about to be
attacked."


The inquiry's lead counsel Mark Freiman said Monday: "It's much
easier to apply hindsight," and urged the commissioner to
consider the "context."


He said government assertions there was "no specific warning that
this particular Air India flight was being targeted" would be
examined in the following weeks.


Crook's former partner Don McLean, and former CSIS agents Jacques
Jodoin and Lynne Jarrett are scheduled to testify at this week at
the inquiry which opened in September to probe the Canadian
government's failure to prosecute all those responsible.


Jodoin had laid out protocol for CSIS wiretaps and retention of
tapes made by the agency in a February 1985 memo. Hundreds of
hours of wiretaps of Parmar conversations were later erased by
CSIS, frustrating the bombing investigation.


Jarrett and her partner had followed Parmar to Vancouver Island
days before the bombing and listened as he and Inderjit Singh
Reyat exploded a practice bomb in the woods near Duncan, in
westernmost British Columbia province.


The CSIS agents purportedly thought the militant pair had fired a
rifle, suggesting they might be engaged in firearms training,
said reports.


The spy agency's inability to stop the June 1985 bombing plot
despite the warning signals and the tailing of the suspects has
been a continual frustration for the victims' families.

