

As Cubans readied for May Day celebrations, there was speculation
but no official word as to whether President Fidel Castro would
take the opportunity to make his first public appearance since
undergoing major surgery in July.


During his 48 years in power, the communist leader had only
stayed away from the traditional May Day celebrations twice, both
times because he was out of the country.


Castro ally President Evo Morales of Bolivia had no doubt the
veteran revolutionary would use the opportunity to formally
resume his functions as head of state he had temporarily handed
over to his brother Raul after undergoing surgery in late July.


"I am certain that on May 1, comrade Fidel will resume his role
leading Cuba and Latin America," Morales said on Saturday.


Cuban authorities have repeatedly said Castro, 80, was recovering
well, but have not said whether he would appear at Tuesday's
celebrations, or when he might resume the presidency.


"If it is possible, he'll be there, and if it is not, he won't,"
Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez said over the weekend.


Cuba's influential parliamentary president Ricardo Alarcon played
down the likelihood of Castro would attend the celebrations.
"Being well is one thing, but watching a parade for two hours ...
I'd rather see him on television," Alarcon said last week.


While he has not made any live public appearance since his
operation, Castro has been seen on television, usually with
visiting dignitaries, on several occasions.


Contrary to earlier speculation, he missed a weekend summit in
Caracas of his closest allies, Venezuela and Bolivia, as well as
Nicaragua.


But the Cuban leader appears to have become increasingly active
over the past weeks. Three lengthy articles signed by Castro have
appeared in official media, and the president reportedly held
hourlong talks on Friday with a top Chinese official.


Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who has regularly met with
Castro since the operation, said the Cuban leader was doing very
well, and already had informally resumed a large part of his
government functions.

