

Rome's legendary Cinecitta film studio, home of "Ben-Hur" and
practically synonymous with Federico Fellini, has survived
through thick and thin to mark 70 years since its founding by
Mussolini.


But Cinecitta has yet to recover from nearly two decades in the
wilderness, despite recent US blockbusters such as "Gangs of New
York" and "The Passion of the Christ".


Glittery festivities planned Friday will draw about 1,000 guests
to the sumptuous set of the US-British television blockbuster
series "Rome".


The sprawling Cinecitta (literally "cinema city"), conceived as a
rival to Hollywood, was inaugurated on April 28, 1937, by the
dictator Benito Mussolini, who saw its potential as a propaganda
tool.


"The studios were born under fascism, and Mussolini understood
that cinema could play a big role in propaganda," Italian film
expert Aldo Tassone told AFP. "The aim was also to create in Rome
a 'Hollywood on the Tiber' where American filmmakers could come
to shoot at lower cost."


By the early 1950s, American directors were here in force, taking
advantage of the vast facilities as well as the cost savings.
Notable productions included William Wyler's "Ben-Hur" (1958) and
"Quo Vadis" by Mervyn LeRoy (1949).


Italian directors also flocked to the studio, including Roberto
Rossellini, Vittorio de Sica and Luchino Visconti.


But Cinecitta's greatest champion would be Fellini, who chose it
for his biggest films including the iconic "La Dolce Vita" (1960)
as well as "Satyricon" (1969) and "Amarcord" (1973).


Soon afterward, in the 1970s, the golden age of Cinecitta faded
with the rise of television productions, and it nearly went
bankrupt in the 1980s.


"The studio really was at its height between 1955 and 1975. After
that, production shrank from 220 films per year to about 80,"
said Tassone, who is artistic director of the annual French film
festival in Florence. "Italian movie theatres also suffered
severe downturn. ... Only one in five cinemas survived."


It was not until 1997 -- when the studio was three-quarters
privatised -- that the Italian colossus began a modest recovery,
once again offering lower costs, professionalism and the allure
of Rome.


In 2002, Italian-American filmmaker Martin Scorsese came here to
produce "Gangs of New York", followed two years later by Mel
Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" in 2004. "Rome," the TV
series which relates the birth of the Roman empire, is the latest
mega-contract.


Cinecitta Holding chairman Alessandro Battisti has decided to
sell off some of the space while sealing deals with television
variety shows, and part of the complex may be the site of a new
National Cinematography Centre.


But Tassone said Cinecitta is well past its prime. "Even if the
trend today favours a revival for Italian cinema, the studios of
Cinecitta have lost their spirit. Obviously it's interesting
enough when Scorsese comes here, but 'Ben- Hur' was something
else. Times have changed!"

