

The Palestinian government of prime minister Ismail Haniya has
established contact with the kidnappers of a BBC journalist in
the Gaza Strip, a senior official said on Monday.


It was the first time that a Palestinian official confirmed
contact with those holding Alan Johnston, snatched at gunpoint
seven weeks ago as he drove home from work in Gaza City on March
12.


"An envoy of Ismail Haniya met representatives of Johnston's
kidnappers today and conveyed a firm message in the name of the
government that they have to free him immediately," the official
told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Haniya of the Islamist movement Hamas heads a Palestinian unity
government.


Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed, meanwhile, said
the kidnappers had conveyed "demands" for Johnston's release but
he specified only that they were of a "political and ideological"
nature.


"We have reached a delicate and very important stage," Ahmed
said. "The kidnappers should understand that they are in a
difficult situation."


Ahmed also said the kidnappers had stressed that the journalist
-- who has now been held far longer than any other Western
hostage in the Gaza Strip -- was in "good" health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed in a statement
to have killed him, but Palestinian authorities have said there
was no proof of the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The
Brigades of Holy War and Unity).


Johnston, 44, was the only Western journalist left working full-
time in the increasingly dangerous Gaza Strip when he was
abducted.


On April 19, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said intelligence
services had confirmed that Johnston was alive and knew the group
that was holding him, but said Palestinian officials had not had
contact with the abductors.


Johnston is the latest of around 20 foreign journalists and aid
workers to be abducted in Gaza over the past year. All of them
have so far been released unharmed, with most used to lever
concessions from the authorities.


His ordeal has sparked international protests, with solidarity
demonstrations held in Brussels, Cairo, Lebanon and throughout
Britain.


More than 50,000 people around the world have signed an online
BBC petition calling for his release, with hundreds also posting
messages of support on the BBC News website.


Johnston has been with the BBC for 16 years and has also reported
from Uzbekistan and Afghanistan.

