

Some soldiers suffering from Gulf War syndrome have significantly
smaller brain volumes than returning veterans who did not get as
sick, according to a study released Tuesday.


Researchers found that two areas of the brain used for thinking
and memory were significantly smaller in soldiers suffering from
more than five symptoms (such as joint pain, fatigue,
forgetfulness, headaches, rashes, nausea and difficulty
concentrating) of Gulf War syndrome.


The study involved soldiers who were exposed to chemical weapons
when a munitions depot in Khamsiyah, Iraq was blown up during the
first Gulf War.


It is not extensive enough to determine whether their brains were
actually damaged as a result of the exposure, said study author
Roberta White of the Boston University School of Public Health.


"There are physical differences in their central nervous system,"
White told AFP.


"Yes, it's a difference but whether it's causative or not, I
don't know. It could be a preexisting difference or it could be a
change that came about during the exposure."


White, who presented the data as a poster at the annual meeting
of the American Academy of Neurology, said she plans to expand
the study in order to see if she can prove the exposure damaged
the veterans' brains.


"There is a lot of evidence starting to accumulate to see there
are nervous system effects of Gulf War service," she said, adding
that previous studies have shown that exposure to these types of
chemicals can damage the brain.


White has been studying veterans of the Gulf War since they first
came home complaining of odd illnesses in 1991.


This latest study examined the brain scans of 36 veterans: half
reported more than five symptoms while half had five or fewer
symptoms.


She found the overall cortex was an average of five percent
smaller in those with more symptoms while the rostral anterior
cingulate gyrus was six percent smaller.


Those with more symptoms also performed an average of 12 to 15
percent lower on tests of learning and memory and performance
worsened as the brain volume decreased.


The soldiers studied were functioning despite their symptoms and
did not suffer from severe neurological problems, White said.


While brain damage is very difficult to reverse, identifying that
the damage exists can help in tailoring treatments to help
veterans manage their symptoms, she added.

