

Fresh from a record third World Cup victory, Australia's cricket
authorities Tuesday turned their attention to replacing several
retiring stars with young talent.


Four legspinners aiming for the key spot left vacant by Shane
Warne's retirement from the Australian Test team were named in
Cricket Australia's list of 25 contracted players for the 2007-08
season.


They are World Cup star Brad Hogg, youngster Dan Cullen, veteran
Stuart MacGill and 22-year-old Cullen Bailey, who has claimed 54
wickets in 17 first-class matches at an average of 41.51.


Bailey was one of six new names on the list. The others are
batsmen Chris Rogers and Adam Voges, swing bowler Ben Hilfenhaus
and all-rounders James Hopes and Cameron White.


Glenn McGrath, Warne, Damien Martyn and Justin Langer retired,
while Michael Kasprowicz and Simon Katich were cut.


Chief selector Andrew Hilditch said Australia faced a great
challenge in the wake of the retirements.


"This list of players still represents a very experienced group
but also includes some exciting young talent that will ensure our
reign as champions in both Test and one-day cricket can
continue," he said.


"The retirement of Shane Warne is a significant issue for
Australian cricket.


"While he is obviously irreplaceable, we are pleased that we have
experienced spinners in Stuart MacGill, who has a great Test
record, and Brad Hogg, who has just finished a highly successful
World Cup.


"We will also look to Cullen Bailey and Dan Cullen to continue
with their exciting development and realise their potential."


"As with Shane, the retirement of Glenn McGrath leaves a huge
hole for Australian cricket, but the squad contains some really
exciting fast-bowling talent in Shaun Tait and Mitchell Johnson
-- and now the addition to the contracted list of Ben Hilfenhaus
for the first time.


"While it is still going to be a challenging time for Australian
cricket, we consider it to be a very exciting one and are really
confident that the group we have picked can help us to continue
our dominance of world cricket."

