

Throughout the long years of insurgency wracking Indian Kashmir,
craftsmen like Abdul Kabeer have survived by embroidering
Kashmiri shawls that are prized worldwide for their rich texture
and fine designs.


Kashmiri handicraft shops in New Delhi, Mumbai and in tourist
hotspots across India mushroomed after 1989 when separatists took
up arms against Indian rule and tourism in the snow-capped
Himalayan state slowed to a trickle.


"When the troubles broke out, I thought I might have to change
jobs because there were no tourists to buy my shawls but praise
be to Allah I managed to keep going," said Kabeer, 68, his needle
moving deftly over a rose pattern.


"Working on these shawls has sustained me during these difficult
years," he added, frowning in concentration over the delicate
needlework, his tiny house piled high with brightly-coloured
woven fabrics.


After the revolt erupted, shops in big Indian cities took the
shawls and other handicrafts of Kashmir's skilled artisans to
sell. Exporters also bought the crafts to sell abroad and set up
brightly-lit showrooms in places like Dubai, London and
Singapore.


More than 250,000 people in the state of ten million are directly
employed in making and selling handicrafts such as carpets,
shawls, carved furniture and colourfully varnished papier mache,
according to official figures.


For tourists brave enough to travel to Kashmir, where at least
three revolt- related deaths are reported daily and grenade
attacks are common, there is a rich choice of handicrafts at
bargain prices.


Prices shoot up when the same crafts are sold in London or Paris,
says Mohammed Yusuf, a shawl seller in Srinagar, urban hub of the
revolt in which 42,000 people have died.


Many shawls are woven using a twill technique similar to tapestry
weaving. The needlework can be so skillful that the motif --
usually abstract designs or stylish paisleys and flowers --
appears on both sides in different colours.


By far the most popular and most costly embroidered shawls are
made from pashmina, spun from the hair of the bearded ibex goat,
which lives at 4,300 meters (14,000 feet) above sea-level in the
Ladakh region of Kashmir.


Kashmiri carpets, renowned for being knotted by hand, are also
popular.


"The more knots per square inch in the carpet the more valuable
it is," says Yasin Wani, who has been selling carpets for over 25
years.


Kashmir handicrafts export sales rose 2.5 percent to 7.05 billion
rupees (162 million dollars) in the 2005-06 fiscal year,
according to the latest figures.


"Exports orders are steadily increasing," says M.A. Allaqaband, a
senior official of the Kashmir handicrafts department.


"Everything from carpets to shawls to papier mache goods are in
high demand in Europe and US," he says.


"The handicrafts sector contributes hugely to foreign exchange
earnings and has sustained thousands of families during the
turmoil," he added.


Papier mache goods are made by soaking paper in water, shaping it
over moulds and intricately painting the surface.


Many families work long hours on carpets and shawls in their
houses to earn a living from weaving.


Now artisans are hoping for an upturn in the tourist trade as
violence eases thanks to a slow peace process between nuclear-
armed India and Pakistan aimed at resolving six decades of
hostility over Kashmir.


"Things are looking brighter this year. We're hopeful we'll be
busy selling our crafts to tourists this season," says G.M. Shah,
Srinagar's leading retailer.

