

Amid kidnappings, assassinations, bombings and all-out battles,
aid groups say Afghanistan's violence is forcing them to cut back
on efforts to help the destitute country's neediest people.


Worryingly, the security threat is growing in areas outside the
southern stomping grounds of insurgents and the drugs mafia,
where the non-governmental organisations which are sticking it
out are already taking precautions, one analyst said.


The Taliban's demand for France to pull out its troops or for
Kabul to free prisoners in return for the release of one French
and three Afghan aid workers has raised concerns about a trend in
kidnappings for political reasons rather than financial gain.


A French woman being held with them was freed Saturday.


The government's release in March of five Taliban prisoners in
exchange for an Italian hostage has had an "encouraging effect on
these kinds of problems," said Handicap International country
director Arnaud Quemin.


"We observe a global warming of the situation in the country so
we are more careful about how we manage our movements," said
Quemin, who has 250 staff -- 10 of them expatriates -- working
with people with disabilities.


"The risk is statistically becoming higher, either to be taken in
fire between different forces or because of bombing in the
cities. So we try to decrease the risk of exposure to such things
by limiting our movements."


The group does not keep its expatriate staff in the southern
province of Kandahar for security reasons, he said.


Last month it suspended work in parts of adjoining Helmand
province when NATO- led and Afghan forces launched Operation
Achilles, intended to wrest back control from the Taliban and
drugs lords.


"There was a risk of being in the wrong place at the wrong time,"
he said.


However the Agency Coordinating Body For Afghan Relief (ACBAR),
an umbrella body of nearly 100 Afghan and international non-
governmental organisations, is not seeing NGOs pulling out of the
volatile south.


Rather, "people are very much tuned into what is happening and
adjusting their operations," said director Anja de Beer.


"Their area of operations has shrunk considerably and people keep
a watchful eye on where to go and when."


They also keep international staff down to a minimum, and
foreigners rarely move outside the comparative safety of Kandahar
city, which was struck by a rash of suicide bombings last year.


The paucity of expatriate personnel "makes it difficult sometimes
to comply with the monitoring and evaluation demands of donors,"
De Beer said.


The general situation means "you cannot serve the community as
well as you would like," she said, commenting on a recent surge
in attacks in the once-calm north.


Mercy Corps copes in Kandahar by staffing the office only with
Afghans who wear local dress and travel in ordinary cars or taxis
when they visit projects.


Some districts are even a no-go for certain Afghans, with only
staff from those areas allowed there "because they are part of
the community," agriculture advisor Atiqullah said.


The Afghan Development Association, an NGO involved in
reconstruction and development projects in the south and
southeast for 15 years, relies largely on its community links to
keep its staff safe.


"Security is one of our biggest concerns -- it affects travelling
from one location to another, the movement of our staff,
logistics," director Esmatullah Haidary told AFP.


"We take careful measures. Sometimes we delay projects. We are
all the time approaching community structures, the beneficiaries.
They travel with us," said Haidary, whose group employs about 890
staff, all Afghans.


Organisations still in the south "have been there a long time and
know how to operate down there," a Western security analyst said
on condition of anonymity.


He does not expect many kidnappings in that area as most
foreigners avoid the roads, travelling by plane from hub to hub.


"Generally in the south, no one is getting out -- they are all
stuck in the centres," he said.


Problems were likely to arise in other regions "where they get
out and do what they want, where they don't adhere to security
procedures," he said.


There was also a certain degree of naivety among people who
"think they are invulnerable because they are aid workers and
here to save the world."


"Attacks are increasing countrywide.... We are picking up more
static of threats to NGOs and aid workers."


The analyst expected security to plummet in the relatively calm
north in the coming months, with the Taliban's release of Italian
journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo in exchange for prisoners
sending a bad message.


The reporter's Afghan driver and translator were beheaded.


"It has just opened the door for everyone (to be kidnapped) --
Afghans and foreigners," he said.

