

Teen thriller "Disturbia" topped the North American box-office
for the third weekend in a row, final figures showed Monday, as
cinemas geared up for the start of the blockbuster season.


With "Spider-Man 3" set to start spinning its web in US theatres
from Friday, last weekend's box-office earnings represented the
calm before the storm of what promises to be a money-spinning
month of May.


As well as "Spider-Man 3", May sees new films from two of the
most profitable film franchises in history, "Shrek" and "Pirates
of the Caribbean." The three film series have grossed over 4
billion dollars between them since 2001.


In what was almost certainly its last week on top before it is
displaced by "Spider-Man 3", "Disturbia" netted 9 million
dollars, figures released by box- office tracker Exhibitor
Relations said.


Another teen thriller, "The Invisible," debuted in second place
with 7.7 million. The film follows an adolescent ghost aiming to
avenge his murder.


"Next," the story of a Las Vegas magician who can glimpse a few
minutes into the future starring Nicolas Cage and Julianne Moore,
opened in the third slot with 7.1 million dollars in ticket
sales.


The fourth-place movie of the weekend was police drama
"Fracture," taking in 6.8 million dollars, while the ice skating
comedy "Blades of Glory" skidded to fifth place with 5.1 million
dollars.


British police comedy "Hot Fuzz," followed in sixth place after
earning 4.9 million, with "Meet the Robinsons," a Disney
computer-animated feature about a child orphan inventor and his
saga to save the future, was seventh with 4.8 million dollars.


The gruesome motel horror flick "Vacancy" was next with 4.1
million.


US wrestler's Stone Cold Steve Austin's action thriller "The
Condemned," about a man who has to fight his way out of a Central
American prison, debuted at ninth place with 3.8 million dollars.


Rounding out the top 12 was the Ice Cube comedy "Are We Done Yet"
at 10th with 3.4 million, "In the Land of Women" with 2.6 million
and the breakdancing revival "Kickin' It Old Skool" opened with
2.5 million dollars.


The top 12 films grossed an estimated 62.1 million dollars, down
31 percent from the same weekend last year.

