

A Muslim convert who barracked Britain's interior minister last
year was remanded in custody Monday when he appeared before
magistrates in London with five other men on terror charges.


Abu Izzadeen, 32, was told they would be staying behind bars
until their next appearance at London's Central Criminal Court,
on May 18. He is accused of inciting terrorism overseas and
fundraising.


The offences relate to speeches made at London's Regent's Park
Mosque in November 2004.


Izzadeen, who appeared under the name Omar Brooks, was remanded
in custody with Ibrahim Abdullah Hassan, 21, from east London;
Rajib Khan, 28, from Luton, north of London; and Simon Keeler,
35, from east London.


All four are accused of "inciting another person to commit an act
of terrorism wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom, and the
act would, if committed in England and Wales, constitute an
offence of murder".


Izzadeen, Keeler, Hassan and Khan are accused with Shah Jalal
Hussain, 24, of east London, and Omar Zaheer, 27, of Southall,
west of London of terrorist fundraising.


Hassan faces a further charge of possessing an article suspected
to be connected with the commission, preparation or instigation
of a terrorist act.


Zaheer and Hussain were given conditional bail


Izzadeen is a well-known figure towards the extreme end of
British Muslim opinion. Last September he repeatedly disrupted a
speech by Home Secretary John Reid in east London, calling him
"an enemy of Islam" and "a tyrant".


The former electrician, who was born in London to a Jamaican
family, is said to be a former spokesman for the radical Islamist
group Al-Ghurabaa.


Al-Ghurabaa is an offshoot of the now disbanded Al-Muhajiroun led
by radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, both of which are now
banned in Britain.


Izzadeen came to prominence for refusing to condemn the 2005
London suicide bombings and has described Prime Minister Tony
Blair and US President George W. Bush as the "real terrorists"
for military action in Iraq and Afghanistan.

