

The euro hovered near its record high against the dollar Monday
after a government report revealed a benign inflation reading,
raising the odds of a US rate cut, analysts said.


At 2100 GMT, the euro was changing hands at 1.3649 dollars
compared with 1.3650 dollars late Friday, although the single
currency had earlier traded up to 1.3679 dollars, within a
whisker of Friday's record of 1.3682.


The dollar meanwhile declined slightly to 119.41 yen from 119.59,
but gained to 1.2067 Swiss francs from 1.2055.


Sterling drifted a shade higher to 1.9994 dollars compared with
1.9974 late Friday. The British currency has also risen strongly
against the dollar in recent months amid concerns about US
economic growth, a widespread housing downturn and bulging trade
deficits.


Traders said the dollar had gained marginally against the euro
following the release of a report on consumer spending and
incomes in March.


US consumers limited spending growth in March amid a lingering
housing market slump and high gasoline prices, even as their
personal incomes remained robust, the report showed.


The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose just 0.3
percent in March, disappointing Wall Street analysts who had
expected spending to rise at least 0.5 percent.


Spending slowed from a revised 0.7-percent clip in the prior
month.


Core inflation, which does not include volatile food and energy
prices and is viewed by the Federal Reserve as a better barometer
of prices, rose 0.1 percent in the month, in line with most
forecasts. Such a reading is well inside the Fed's comfort zone.


The central bank meets next meets on May 9 to debate US interest
rates which have been anchored at 5.25 percent since last June.
Traders said the spending and income report, particularly its
inflation gauges, raised the odds that the Fed will cut rates.


"Last Friday, the market absorbed the quarterly growth and
inflation numbers. Since the data overlapped the March indicators
due this morning, few event traders were projecting the type of
movement the majors actually made," said John Kicklighter, a
currency analyst at Forex Capital Markets.


"However, the granular view has revealed a deceleration in
spending and inflation that may help tip the Fed towards a rate
cut," Kicklighter said.


Currencies normally weaken amid expectations of lower interest
rates as foreign investors typically expect to earn lower returns
on assets parked in countries where rates are low or falling.


Many economists, however, expect the Fed to keep short-term rates
on hold at 5.25 percent at its May 9 meeting.

