

US President George W. Bush and visiting European Union leaders
were expected Monday to bolster economic ties, as well as show
unity on Iran and try to paper over differences on global
warming.


Bush met at the White House with German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
who holds the rotating presidencies of the EU and the Group of
Eight (G8) industrialized nations, and European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso.


The leaders were not expected to agree on concrete steps to
battle global warming, but were to describe the problem in a
joint statement as a common challenge requiring "urgent,
sustained, global action," a US official said.


They were also slated to push ahead with lowering trade barriers
and inking an agreement aiming to erase differences on regulation
-- in the automobile or pharmaceutical sectors and on
intellectual property.


They were also expected to sidestep four-year-old disputes over
the war in Iraq and stress their cooperation on issues like
Iran's nuclear ambitions, the Middle East peace process, violence
in Darfur, and worries about Russia.


Washington and Brussels worry that Moscow has abandoned pledges
to enact democratic reforms, have backed Kosovo formally becoming
independent from Serbia -- something fiercely opposed by Russia.


The leaders were also expected to discuss Russia's announcement
that it was suspending its participation in an arms treaty
limiting the number of military forces in Europe, in apparent
retaliation over US plans to deploy a missile shield there.


On climate change, Merkle hoped that the annual US-EU summit in
Washington would bridge some transatlantic gaps before the
beginning of June, when she is to host the summit of eight
industrialized countries back in Germany.


The joint US-EU statement on energy security and climate change,
obtained by AFP, was to state that "addressing these issues
requires urgent, sustained global action and an integrated policy
approach, using a wide range of regionally, nationally or
internationally defined policy tools and measures."


The 27 EU members agreed in March to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020, based on 1990 levels.
Germany's proposal was a more aggressive 40 percent cut.


The US ambassador to the European Union, C. Boyden Gray, has
warned against high expectations from Monday's summit, saying it
would "not be a defining moment" but only "one part of the
journey."


Bush has refused to accept any imposition of limits on greenhouse
gas emissions, saying it would harm the US economy.


Bush has pointed out that without the cooperation of the rapidly
booming Chinese and Indian economies, emission cuts by other
countries are in vain. And he has pressed for the development and
use of new technologies.


Without any foreseeable agreement on global warming, Gray said
"the real meat on the bone" of the talks will be in the realm of
economic cooperation between the world's two key economic blocs.


In one key step, the two sides were expected to sign a US-EU
"open sky" accord on freeing up transatlantic air travel, which
would allow airlines to fly anywhere in Europe or the United
States beginning in March 2008.


Europeans hope that the United States will abandon its visa
demands for Eastern European countries which have recently been
inducted into the European Union.


During three joint work sessions, Bush, Merkel and Barroso were
also to bolster cooperation regarding Iran and its nuclear
ambitions, the status of Kosovo, and on the proliferation of
"terror." Iraq and Afghanistan are also to figure on the agenda.


EU diplomacy chief Javier Solana said Friday he would highlight
the need for the United States to break its more than 25 years of
silence with Iran and establish a "channel of communication" on
all subjects.


Observers agree that the summit rarely provides breakthroughs,
and is even less likely to show any this year, as some European
countries await political changes and the US campaigning for
president in 2008 is well underway.

