

Four years after declaring the end of major combat operations in
Iraq beneath a banner hailing "Mission Accomplished," US
President George W. Bush is locked in a showdown with Congress
over funding for the lingering conflict.


Tuesday marks the anniversary of Bush's landmark speech and the
day Democratic lawmakers aim to have their controversial Iraq war
funding bill cross his desk, with its timetable for withdrawing
US troops from the violence-plagued country.


Bush has promised to use his veto power to block any bill
containing a schedule for troop pullout, and has urged lawmakers
to pass the current proposal to him promptly so work can begin on
a new version.


Bush on Monday reiterated his determination, saying the measure
would only tie the hands of those running the war on the ground.


"I am about to veto a bill that has got artificial timetables for
withdrawal. But that's not the only bad thing about the bill," he
told reporters.


"It also imposes the judgment of people in Washington on our
military commanders and diplomats."


The bill, which makes 124 billion dollars of military funding
conditional on pulling out most troops by March 2008, is likely
to be signed by the Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi
and Senate leader Harry Reid on Tuesday.


Immediately afterward, it is to be sent to the White House, a
spokesman for Pelosi said.


Bush is due to visit military headquarters in Florida on Tuesday,
but has invited Democrat and Republican Congressional leaders to
the White House on Wednesday to tackle the funding issue.


"I look forward to working with members of both parties to get a
bill that doesn't set artificial timetables and doesn't
micromanage and gets the money to our troops," he said.


"I believe there's a lot of Democrats that understand that we
need to get the money to the troops as soon as possible."


White House spokesman Tony Snow insisted that there was no
connection between the bill's anticipated delivery and Bush's
scheduled trip Tuesday to the US Central Command (CENTCOM) in
Tampa, Florida, headquarters for the top brass in charge of US
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"The only way to lose the war is to walk away from it," Snow
said. "Think of it this way: The United States walks away, who
stands to benefit? Answer, terrorists, Al-Qaeda, the people who
are fighting democracy."


But Democrats are planning to squeeze as much publicity as
possible out of the converging anniversary of the victory speech
and the bill, which they say reflects the growing anti-war
sentiment in the United States.


Presidential candidate and Democratic New York senator Hillary
Clinton told a campaign rally over the weekend that Bush's 2003
declaration was "one of the most shameful episodes in American
history."


On May 1, 2003, Bush stood on the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft
carrier in front of a banner reading "Mission Accomplished," and
declared that major combat operations in the US-led invasion of
Iraq had ended.


"The battle of Iraq is one victory in a war on terror that began
on September 11, 2001 and still goes on," Bush said in that
speech.


Last year, on the third anniversary of the speech, Bush insisted
that the war- torn country had finally turned a corner toward
establishing security and democracy.


"We believe this is a turning point for the Iraqi citizens, and
it's a new chapter in our partnership," the president said at the
time, flanked by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and then
defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld.

