

A movie set against the backdrop of the 2003 US-led invasion of
Iraq scooped two awards for Kurdish film maker Shawkat Amin Korki
at the Singapore International Film Festival.


"Crossing The Dust" (Parinawa La Gohobar) beat nine other
nominees for the best director award in the Asian feature film
category at the festival, which ended Monday. It also received
the Network for the Promotion of Asian Cinema Jury Award.


"I am dedicating these prizes to the Kurdish people. I hope that
no one will be killed in Kurdistan or Iraq and there will be no
more war in the world," said the 35-year-old Shawkat, who also
wrote the screenplay for his debut feature film.


Among the other nominees was Indonesian director Garin Nugroho,
who entered a documentary about survivors of the 2004 tsunami in
Aceh province.


In an interview with AFP on Saturday, a day after receiving the
awards, the easy-going Shawkat described the 74-minute movie as
an anti-war film.


The plot revolves around two soldiers from Iraq's northern
autonomous region of Kurdistan, Azad and Rashid, who come across
a lost five-year-old Iraqi boy named Saddam crying at the side of
a road, on the day his namesake, Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein,
was deposed.


Azad overcomes ethnic differences and tries to help the boy find
his parents, much to the objections of Rashid, whose family was
wiped out by Iraqi troops under Saddam during the anti-Kurdish
campaign in the 1980s.


Azad is killed while trying to protect the boy from Saddam's
troops, who want to take him back. Rashid puts aside his
animosity and carries on with the task of helping the boy find
his parents.


Shawkat said the film was based on true stories.


Saddam Hussein was deposed by the US-led military coalition,
captured, and hanged on December 30 last year.


US forces are now bogged down in Iraq, facing a tenacious
insurgency and the country is wracked by a bloody cycle of
violence.


"The movie is against war and (made) to condemn the feelings of
hatred people have against others. It is to celebrate the humane
side and love people have for one another," Shawkat said through
an interpreter.


The film is interspersed with footage of civilians looting a
government office in Baghdad, US troops and tanks, and people
cheering Saddam's downfall.


Filming was carried out on location in Kurdistan and Iraqi cities
such as Mosul between mid-2004 and late 2006. The film was 70
percent funded by Kurdistan's ministry of culture.


"Of course there were some risks.... There were some bombings,
and war was still going on in some areas (during the filming),"
said Shawkat, who previously made television documentaries and
short films.


"Crossing the Dust" also touched on the bloody history of the
Iraqi Kurds.


Rashid has flashbacks of his family being killed in a bombing by
Saddam's forces. In another scene, women weep and mourn around
mass graves.


Shawkat's own family was forced to flee to Iran in 1973 when he
was two. He returned in 1999 and now runs a film production
company in Kurdistan.


But Shawkat says the film goes beyond just "crossing the dust" to
bridge ties between Kurds and Iraqis.


"The message of the movie is much bigger.... It is about human
beings. Regardless of anything that happened in the past, we can
live in peace," he said.


"Crossing the Dust" has also been screened at six other film
festivals including the Rotterdam film festival and the Cairo
film festival.


Shawkat said he will submit it to Spain's Granada film festival
in June, and is currently working on the script for his next
movie, a black comedy set in a Kurdistan village.

