

Russia accused Estonia Monday of using heavy machinery to unearth
the remains of Soviet soldiers, deepening a row over the removal
of a memorial to Red Army soldiers that sparked riots last week.


A visit by a Russian parliamentary delegation, which had come
here to try to settle the row, ended in stalemate as the Russians
instead called on the Baltic state's government to resign over
the handling of the unrest.


"The brutal handling of people by the Estonian police during
disturbances on April 27 and 28 is unacceptable," said Leonid
Slutsky, deputy head of the Duma's foreign affairs committee.


"The government of an EU member state in the 21st century, which
displays such gross violations of human rights, must stand down,"
he said.


For Estionians, the Bronze Soldier is a painful reminder of 50
years of Soviet occupation.


Russians, including a substantial minority in Estonia, see it as
a memorial to Red Army soldiers who died driving the Nazis out of
the Baltic states in World War II.


Russia has said the rioting in Tallinn, in which a Russian died,
pitted people "defending the monument" against the police, while
Estonian officials have maintained that the rioters were mere
vandals and looters.


The Russian delegation snubbed a joint press conference they had
previously agreed to hold with the Estonian side at the foreign
ministry.


At a separate briefing held at the Russian embassy, they fueled
the growing row over the monument by accusing the Estonians of
using heavy machinery to dig up the bodies.


"Being told that we are removing these bodies with an excavator
is  absolutely insulting," Madis Mikko, a spokesman for the
defence ministry, which is overseeing the exhumations, told AFP.


Twelve coffins have been uncovered at the old monument site in
the centre of Tallinn, officials said. Six of them have been
opened and the remains of Soviet soldiers were found inside.


"I'm sure Estonia will get these people back to their relatives
in Russia or another country, if we can positively identify the
remains we have found," said Ullar Lanno, head of the Estonian
Forensic Medical Bureau.


"If a body is unidentified, it will be moved to the new burial
place. Nothing will stay at the old site or outside a grave," he
said.


The statue of the Bronze Soldier was reerected Monday at a war
cemetery elsewhere in the Estonian capital, as anti-Estonian
unrest continued in Russia and spread to Ukraine.


Protesters threw eggs and balloons filled with paint at the
Estonian embassy in Kiev and posted stickers showing the Estonian
flag with a swastika on it.


In Moscow, where the Estonian embassy has been "under siege" for
four days, staff were barricaded inside by an angry crowd, while
Russian police showed little sign of intervening.


"Nearly two dozen citizens of Estonia are in the embassy
building, as if taken hostage," Estonian President Toomas Hendrik
Ilves told AFP, calling the siege of the embassy "psycho-terror."


Day-long talks between the Russians and Estonians ended in
stalement, Estonian deputy parliamentary speaker Kristiina
Ojuland told journalists.


"The talks ... showed that we have serious differences over the
interpretation of 50 years of history," she said, referring to
five decades during which Estonia had been forcibly incorporated
into the Soviet Union.


Nikolai Kovalyov, head of the visiting Duma delegation, hit out
at the Estonian police for failing to provide medical assistance
that he said could have saved the life of the Russian who died in
the first night of rioting.


He also blamed the Estonian government for starting the unrest by
"deciding to relocate the monument."


"The actions of the Estonian government have turned our bilateral
relations upside down, and this demands a radical interference
from us."


"We will not accept the decision of the Estonian government to
relocate the monument."


Hundreds of cars jammed the streets of downtown Tallinn at noon
Monday, blaring their horns in a noisy half-hour protest calling
on Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to resign.


Ansip made the removal of the statue a pillar of his campaign in
the March 4 parliamentary election, which saw his government the
first to be returned to power since independence from Moscow in
1991.

