

Gabon's rapidly disappearing pygmies live on the fringes of
society, often working in conditions akin to slavery and without
basic health care, education or voting rights.


There are between 15,000 and 20,000 indigenous pygmies left in
the jungles of the central African nation, according to rough
estimates by the United Nations, and they are becoming a dying
breed due to a high mortality rate.


A recent report by the UN children's agency flayed the conditions
under which pygmies live, evoking "daily discrimination."


It said not only were they were being robbed of the resources and
riches of the forest -- their traditional home -- but also faced
unemployment, servitude, abysmal poverty and no access to either
health or sanitation.


The cutting report went as far as to speak of a "negation of
human rights."


The pygmies have largely abandoned their hunter-gatherer nomadic
lifestyle and often live in huts abutting Bantu villages, working
for a pittance and often under pitiful conditions.


Helene Nze, head of the Edzengui non-governmental organisation --
which means the "Genie of the Forest" in the local Baka language
-- said she faced an arduous task in protecting the timid and
peaceful little people of the jungle.


"Here the Bantus often exploit the pygmies," she said. "When they
employ one of them, they call him 'my pygmy,'" she said.


"They belittle us because we come from the forest and treat us
like animals," she said.


Severin Cecile Abega, an anthropologist from nearby Cameroon,
said government projects to improve the pygmies' lot had failed
because they aimed at turning a traditionally nomadic people into
farmers.


"Pygmies are neither settlers, nor farmers. To settle down
implies eating animals and cutting down trees which are against
what they believe in," Abega said.


Tensions between the pygmies and the local Bantu villagers had
heightened because their earlier roles now overlapped.


"In the past, the pygmies furnished the produce of the forest to
Bantu farmers in exchange for food and metal objects. Now they
have become competitors and this is leading to increasing
violence."


The pygmies also do not have birth certificates, which deprive
them of several basic rights, including that of suffrage.


Gabon, a former French colony, has inherited the legacy of
copious paperwork and one's rights can be severely curtailed if
one does not have identity papers.


Alain Ntsoumba Adombo is the sole pygmy in a village of 60 who
has a birth certificate: essential for obtaining an identity card
and to vote.


"Our traditions are threatened and will soon disappear if we
leave the forest," he said. "Our culture comes from the forest."


UNICEF says the mortality rate of the estimated 700,000 pygmies
living in central Africa is unusually high: between 20 to 30
percent of children do not live to the age of five.


This is in part explained by the fact that they often live in
remote villages far removed from hospitals and clinics.


"When they fall ill, they treat themselves with their plants.
They only come to town when it gets serious and often it is too
late," said Marcel Ngouambe, a doctor associated with a UNICEF-
sponsored vaccination and registration campaign targetting
pygmies.


Some pygmies have been harmed by their brush with the outside
world: alcoholism is on the rise and is rapidly becoming a
serious social problem.


But Gabonese authorities rebuff suggestions that the gentle
people are being marginalised and oppressed.


"They are Gabonese citizens like the others," said Pierre
Moudouma Koumba, the local head of Gabon's Minvoul district,
dismissing complaints of a "cultural genocide," levelled by some
pygmies.

