

Novak Djokovic drew a chorus of football-inspired jeers as he
donned the crimson stripe of Portuguese powerhouse Benfica after
scraping to a laboured 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7/5) opening victory on
Monday at the Estoril Open.


The third seed had to work to overcome Russian Igor Andreev in
the first round, taking two hours 42 minutes to advance.


"This match was really difficult, I knew that before the start,"
said the teenaged tyro tipped for the top of the sport. "Andreev
prefers this surface.


"I'm not so pleased with my form, but I have to look on the
positive side. It was good to get through such a tough match as
this one. It can only help in the next round."


The Serb now ranked a career high fifth in the world, was still
riding a wave of emotion after attending a league match on Sunday
where Benfica drew 1-1 with Sporting Lisbon.


The 19-year-old winner said that the colours of Benfica were the
deciding factor: "Red is my colour, I support Benfica, AC Milan
and Manchester United."


Djokovic is making a deliberate start to his clay season after
winning just one match at Monte Carlo in ihs first outing.


But he couldn't have asked for a tougher test than Andreev, the
last man to beat Rafael Nadal on clay more than a year ago.


The winner will next face Spain's Santiago Ventura, who defeated
Argentine Sergio Roitman 7-5, 6-2 on a day of wind and changing
conditions.


Djokovic captured a Masters Series title at Miami over Guillermo
Canas after losing the Indian Wells final to Nadal.


He began his season with a trophy at Adelaide.


Andreev missed six months last year following knee surgery and
now stand 10-11 on the season.


Both men were making Estoril debuts.


In another result at the Estadio Nacional, Argentine hope Juan
Del Potro beat Colombian Alejandro Falla 1-6, 6-2, 6-4.


Russian Nikolay Davydenko is top seed at the event, which he won
in 2003.


But the world number four will not start until Wednesday after
suffering a wrist injury during a massage last week in Barcelona.
Davydenko lost the 2006 final to Argentine David Nalbandian.


Second seed Tommy Robredo, the 2005 finalist who got in on a wild
card after Briton Andy Murray withdraw to rest a back injury,
opens on Tuesday against fellow Spaniard Albert Montanes.


In the women's WTA event, third seeded Czech Lucie Safarova beat
Aravane Rezai of France 7-6 (7/5), 7-5 while number five Russian
Olga Poutchkova beat compatriot Anatassia Rodionova 6-3, 4-6, 7-6
(7/5).

