

Iran has a "significant role to play" in stabilizing Iraq, the
new US ambassador to the United Nations said Monday, despite
Washington's claims that Tehran aids insurgents in its war-torn
neighbor.


Discussing this week's conference on Iraq security in the
Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm-el-Sheikh, Ambassador Zalmay
Khalilzad said: "Iran has a significant role to play in providing
support for the (Iraqi) government."


He also referred, however, to charges by the United States that
Tehran backs insurgents in the country, claiming that it supports
"opponents of the government."


Washington "would like to get cooperation (from Tehran) in
support of the government and eliminate support for the opponents
of the new Iraq," he added.


Both US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her Iranian
counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki are to attend the Sharm-el-Sheikh
talks on Thursday and Friday.


Rice said she would "not rule out" a meeting with Mottaki on the
sidelines of the conference but Iranian officials have so far
declined to be drawn on the possibility.


Khalilzad, who was named by US President George W. Bush to the UN
post after a stint as US ambassador to Baghdad, presented his
credentials to UN chief Ban Ki- moon here Monday.


He pledged "to roll up his sleeve" and join with Ban "in a
partnership to make the UN as effective as possible during the
time we serve here together."


On Iraq, Khalilzad also said that "there's more that the UN can
do" in the aftermath of the International Compact on Iraq's
economic reconstruction.


He said he would soon discuss with Ban how the world body can
play "an increasing role" in helping Baghdad deliver on its
commitments under the compact, a joint initiative with the UN
supported by the World Bank.


Last March, Iraqi Vice President Adel Abdel Mahdi laid out an
ambitious five- year plan to revive his country's economy at a
UN-sponsored conference on the compact here and urged the world
community to respond with pledges of aid and debt relief.


Under the compact, Iraq commits itself to treating all of its
ethnic groups fairly and equally sharing its oil resources
through a transparent energy sector. It also vows to fight
corruption and keep to rigorous budgets.


The UN meanwhile commits itself to helping Iraq achieve these
goals through its Baghdad mission and other international
agencies based there.

