

US President George W. Bush Monday sought to downplay speculation
of any breakthrough in ties with arch foe Iran when top officials
from the two countries take part in a key conference this week.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice would be "polite but firm"
if she bumps into her Iranian counterpart Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki on the sidelines of the conference on Iraq
security, Bush said.


Iran ended weeks of speculation on Sunday confirming that it
would participate in the conference in the Egyptian Red Sea
resort of Sharm-el-Sheikh.


The attendance of the Islamic republic raises the possibility of
a rare encounter on the sidelines of the conference between
Mottaki and Rice.


The US Secretary of State has she would "not rule out" such a
meeting during the talks on Thursday and Friday, but Iranian
officials have so far declined to be drawn on the possibility.


The two countries have not had diplomatic ties in more than a
quarter century and are at odds over Tehran's nuclear program.


And Bush told a news conference here that Rice "would be polite
but firm in reminding the representative of the Iranian
government that there is a better way forward for the Iranian
people."


Speaking after a summit with leaders of the European Union, Bush
said he hoped Iran would feel the pressure of US efforts to rally
world opposition to Iran's suspected nuclear weapons ambitions.


"If, in fact, there is a conversation (between Rice and Mottaki),
it will be one that says that if the Iranian government wants to
have a serious conversation with the US and others, they ought to
give up their enrichment program in a verifiable fashion," Bush
said.


"We will sit at the table with them along with our European
partners and Russia. That is what she will tell them."


If Mottaki and Rice meet if will be the first such bilateral
contact since then Iranian foreign minister Kamal Kharazi and US
secretary of state Colin Powell were seated next to each other by
their Egyptian hosts at dinner at a similar Iraq conference in
November 2004.


Rice however has made clear that Iraq would be the only issue on
the agenda of any discussion between the two rivals.


"This is not a meeting about the United States and Iran, this is
a meeting about Iraq and about what Iraq's neighbors and
interested parties can do to help stabilize the situation in
Iraq," she told ABC news on Sunday.


The United States has accused Iran of seeking to build nuclear
arms, and led an international push which has seen two sets of UN
sanctions imposed on the Islamic Republic for refusing to suspend
its uranium enrichment program.


Iran has responded by insisting that its nuclear program is only
for civilian use.


And in defiance of world calls to rein in its program, Iran has
announced that it is expanding its uranium enrichment, a process
which can be used to make fuel for generating energy or for
building a nuclear bomb.


Amid the standoff, Iranian officials had been reluctant to attend
the Sharm-el- Sheikh talks, citing unhappiness with the decision
to include world powers such as the United States alongside
Iraq's neighbours at the conference.


But Tehran was finally persuaded after Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki spoke to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on the
telephone.


"Ahmadinejad, taking into account Iran's support of the popularly
elected government of Iraq, said that Iran will take part at the
level of foreign minister," an official from Ahmadinejad's office
told AFP.

