

Brazilian striker Kaka has called on AC Milan to reproduce the
form which had Champions League semi-final rivals Manchester
United in a half-time sweat during their first leg at Old
Trafford last week.


A second-half fightback gave United a precious 3-2 win against
the Italians, but that only came in the wake of a sublime first-
half performance from Kaka whose brace of goals gave the visitors
a 2-1 lead at the break.


The Brazilian star admits they will need to produce an "exploit"
on Wednesday if they are to stop a determined United from taking
the win that would book their place in the May 23 final in
Athens.


But he feels that despite United's qualities, Milan can secure
the minimum requirement of a victory to book their spot in the
final.


"We were leading Manchester United after the first-half last week
thanks to our strength of character, our personality and our
confidence," Kaka said in an interview with Radio Italia.


"Unfortunately we were missing some of those ingredients in the
second-half. We began to fear them, and we paid for it."


United's Wayne Rooney took a leaf out of Kaka's book by scoring a
second-half brace to seal the win for United last Tuesday.


But Kaka, who is top scorer in the Champions League this season
with nine goals, believes home advantage - and the memory of
their quarter-final taming of Bayern at Munich - will tip the
advantage in their favour.


"Manchester are a young and strong team and they play quickly on
the counter- attack thanks to their forwards who are always very
mobile on the pitch.


"We will be hoping to produce the same kind of achievement as we
did against Bayern," added Kaka. "But this time we will have the
advantage of playing at home."


In their second leg quarter-final Milan beat Bayern 2-0 in
Germany having drawn the first leg 2-2.


Kaka admitted that Milan's likely tactical ploy of playing with a
lone striker, in the shape of Filippo Inzaghi, leaves him "more
tired".


But Kaka added: "In this kind of formation the team plays so well
that I just try to adapt and give 100 percent."

