

Washington on Monday expressed concern about reports that aides
to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki played key roles in the
arrest and removal of senior Iraqi army and police officers who
tried to rein in Shiite militias.


"We're aware of the reports, we're concerned about them, and that
will be a focus of conversations," with top Iraqi officials,
White House spokesman Tony Snow told reporters. "Those are the
kinds of things we do discuss with the Iraqis."


"It is vital for the success of an Iraqi democracy to have
security forces that will enforce the law fairly, regardless of
who you are or regardless of what group you belong to," said
Snow.


"We've said it many times, and that continues to be a point of
emphasis," said the spokesman.


At the US State Department, officials there were similarly
unsettled by the reports.


"We're looking into it, and certainly if that were true, it would
be a cause of deep concern," spokesman Sean McCormack told
reporters.


"One of the great strengths from our view of the Baghdad security
plan was this step back from sectarianism among the professional
military and security forces," he said.


"Now, if, in fact, we're seeing some walk back of that, that
would be of real concern to us. So we're taking it seriously," he
said.


Citing US military officials and documents obtained in Baghdad,
the Washington Post reported that since March 1, at least 16 army
and national police commanders have been fired, detained or
pressured to resign. At least nine of them were Sunnis.


Although some of the officers appear to have been fired for
legitimate reasons, several were considered to be among the
better Iraqi officers in the field, the Post said.


The dismissals have angered US and Iraqi leaders who say the
Shiite-led government is sabotaging the military to achieve
sectarian goals, according to the report.


During earlier security crackdowns in Baghdad, Maliki was
criticized for failing to target Shiite militias, in particular
the Mahdi Army, which is led by hard- line cleric Moqtada al-
Sadr, the report said.


Iraqi government officials denied that security force commanders
have faced political pressure and said that Maliki is committed
to targeting all criminals equally, the Post reported.

