

Ivory Coast on Monday launched the first joint armed rebel and
government force to start taking over patrolling of a buffer zone
previously manned by foreign peacekeepers.


The development, another concrete step towards reconciliation in
the country, came ahead of a visit by World Bank and
International Monetary Fund officials to assess aid for the
country.


"We are in full gear to reunite the country," Defence Minister,
Michel Amani N'Guessan said at a ceremony in this Ivorian town
some 500 kilometres (300 miles) west of the economic seaside
capital Abidjan.


In line with a new peace deal, mixed brigades are to gradually
replace UN and French international peacekeeping troops deployed
along the zone in 2002 to keep the two former arch-enemies apart.


N'Guessan urged both sides to gear up for the "final battle for
peace".


"The creation of this joint brigade is the rebirth of a
constitutional state," he said, adding "the time to be warlike is
over".


Thousands of UN troops manning the zone are to be phased out
gradually and replaced by the soldiers from a joint Ivorian army
in a process expected to last several weeks.


The defence minister also appealed to the notorious self-defence
militia groups born out of the civil conflict to resume civilian
life.


"Today we are moving on with peace, leave these groups and let's
make peace together," he said.


Western Ivory Coast, which borders Liberia, was home to several
armed militias and one of the most restive areas in the country.
The militias were mainly pro- President Laurent Gbagbo.


Ivory Coast has been split in half since a failed 2002 uprising
against  Gbagbo, which led to a low-intensity civil war.


After the failure of several mediation attempts -- by Ivory
Coast's former colonial ruler France, the United Nations, the
African Union and a West African regional bloc -- Gbagbo and
rebel leader Guillaume Soro finalised their own peace deal on
March 4.


Under the agreement, Soro became prime minister in a transitional
government, but doubts remain over the two men's commitment to
power sharing.


Meanwhile, a joint team of World Bank and IMF officials is due to
start a two- week tour of the country beginning Tuesday to
finalise a post-conflict emergency assistance programme.


The mission to the world's top cocoa producer, will comprise
experts in management of public spending, cocoa and energy.


On April 20, Ivory Coast and the two Bretton Woods institutions
concluded a deal on the resumption of loans and grants to
Abidjan.


Before the conflict, Ivory Coast was the economic powerhouse of
west Africa.


A former French colony and the world's top cocoa producer, it was
a beacon of stability and prosperity in restive west Africa until
it split in half in 2002 following a failed coup which led to a
low-intensity war.

