

Australian cuesman Neil Robertson hopes of beating two-time world
champion Ronnie 'Rocket' O'Sullivan for the third time this
season evaporated here on Monday as he lost 13-10 in their world
championship second round clash.


Robertson - the only player to have won two ranking tournaments
this season - had fought back brilliantly from 6-2 down to 8-8
and then 10-10 before the thrilling but enigmatic Englishman
rattled off three successive frames to seal a quarter-final match
with another former world champion John Higgins.


Higgins had taken just 10 minutes earlier on Monday to book his
last eight place as he finished off Irishman Fergal O'Brien 13-4.


The Scotsman's compatriot and seven time champion Steven Hendry
had no such fortune as his dreams of an eighth title disappeared,
as he lost to Englishman Ali Carter 13-6.


Carter will meet the surprise package of the championships in the
next round, compatriot and qualifier Mark Selby, who disposed of
another former champion, Englishman Peter Ebdon 13-8.


Selby made five century breaks in the match including three
consecutive centuries during the second session on Monday which
equalled the championship record of O'Sullivan and Higgins.


O'Sullivan and Robertson fought out a great battle - the
Australian making the highest break of the tournament so far with
a 140.


Robertson did have the opportunity to go 11-10 ahead but a missed
pink to clinch the 21st frame allowed O'Sullivan to steal it.


"I'm pleased to have got through," said O'Sullivan, who declared
himself unsatisfied with the standard of his long potting.


"He's (Robertson) a bit of a powerhouse - you have to try to
contain him. But I had to stamp my authority on the match too,
although I never felt all that comfortable."


The missed pink was a body blow for the 25-year-old Australian.


"I'm disappointed I had to play that pink with the rest at 10-10
because I had a bad contact when screwing back from potting the
red," said Robertson, who is ranked 13th in the world.


"If I'd had my hand on the table I would have gone 11-10 up and
he would have been vulnerable from there."


Hendry - who came into the championships using a new cue and
having still to win a ranking tournament since the 2005 Malta
Open - required a miracle to extricate himself from a 12-4
deficit overnight and showed some fight by taking the first two
frames of the session.


However Carter ended the 38-year-old's misery by taking the third
frame.


"I played well and I was really pleased with my form," Carter
told BBC Sport.


"People might talk about Stephen's cue but I put him under
pressure."


Higgins didn't waste any time to send O'Brien packing.


Higgins resumed with a commanding 12-4 lead after an outstanding
display in the second session.


O'Brien battled gamely to close his arrears, but a misjudged
safety shot let the in-form Scot back to the table and he sealed
victory.

