

US stocks fell Monday as investors paused following a record-
setting series of sessions and locked in gains on the final day
of the best month for Wall Street in over three years.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 58.03 points (0.44 percent)
to close at 13,062.91, after the blue-chip index set three
consecutive record highs last week and notched up a new intraday
high Monday of 13,162.02.


The Nasdaq composite tumbled 32.12 points (1.26 percent) to
2,525.09 while the broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index
retreated 11.70 points (0.78 percent) to 1,482.37.


Despite Monday's pullback, the Dow index was up 708 points or 5.7
percent for April, the best monthly gain since December 2003. The
Nasdaq and S&P index both rose 4.3 percent on the month.


"After turning in such an impressive performance in April, it
wasn't surprising to see investors finally start to question
whether valuations would be sustainable over the near term,
especially with the worst six months of the year (historically)
beginning tomorrow," analysts at Briefing.com said.


The analysts were referring to historical trends and the Wall
Street adage "sell in May and go away."


The market, which has been on a tear following better-than-
expected corporate earnings, digested news that US consumer
spending rose 0.3 percent in March and personal incomes increased
0.7 percent.


Although the spending figure was below expectations, traders
focused on the inflation component of the report showing core
prices up just 0.1 percent, and pushed up stocks in early trade
before a rally attempt fizzled.


But Todd Salamone at Schaeffer's Investment Research noted that
some investors are increasingly wary despite the records set on
Wall Street.


"Caution on the Street is rampant, as investors ponder the
seeming disconnect between the economy and decelerating earnings
growth with a stock market achieving new milestones," he said.


"And these impressive gains have come amid concerns of a
weakening dollar and a weakening economy. Even the dreaded 'R'
word (recession) is being batted around the financial press with
increasing regularity."


The analyst said the low expectations for corporate profits have
helped to fuel the recent rally as earnings have come in stronger
than expected.


"In some cases, the weak dollar has added positively to
multinationals bottom line, which has only raised more cautionary
flags as analysts fret over the quality of earnings," he said.


A more upbeat Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said he believes the
underlying trend is still positive.


"Near-term, the stock market seems obsessed with earnings news
that has caused many investors to lift current quarter
estimates," Dickson said.


"As long as the market gets good earnings news, we believe the
bulls will continue to prevail on Wall Street sending the market
indices even higher. Technically, we don't see any warnings
signals coming from global equity markets. Most global stock
markets appear very strong and trending higher."


Among stocks in focus, Verizon rose 29 cents to 38.18 dollars
after the telecom giant reported profits ahead of Wall Street
forecasts.


Microsoft fell 18 cents to 29.98 despite a US Supreme Court
ruling in its favor in a suit by AT&T. The court said the US
software group could not be held liable for alleged patent
violations for sales ooutside the United States. AT&T shares
rose eight cents to 38.72.


Yahoo fell 30 cents to 28.34 after announcing a deal to acquire
the remaining 80 percent it does not own of online advertising
exchange Right Media for 680 million dollars.


Bonds rose. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond dropped to
4.630 percent from 4.698 percent Friday while that on the 30-year
bond fell to 4.817 percent against 4.885 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

