

Japan and Kuwait renewed their energy partnership on Monday while
vowing to work together for stability in Iraq and urge Iran to
resolve the crisis over its nuclear ambition.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took his energy security tour
to Kuwait after striking an accord with the United Arab Emirates
to finance resource development projects.


Abe held talks with Kuwait's emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah
and his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed al-
Sabah separately, on the first visit to the Gulf Arab state by a
Japanese premier.


"The Kuwaiti side expressed its commitment to assure steady and
stable oil supplies to Japan," the two countries said in a joint
statement released after the two meetings.


"The Japanese side also expressed its willingness to enhance
technical cooperation and other support for the upstream and
other oil sectors in Kuwait," the statement said.


Japan is Kuwait's biggest oil buyer. Crude oil shipments to Japan
totaled 843.2 billion yen (7.1 billion dollars) in 2005, which
accounted for some eight percent of the total.


Abe has already met leaders of Saudi Arabia and the UAE in his
five-country Middle East tour aimed to seek energy security and
widen ties with the energy- rich region.


On Sunday, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Abu
Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) signed an agreement to boost
Japanese investment in resources-related projects in the UAE.


Under the accord, the Japanese government-run bank will consider
providing ADNOC with loans expected to amount to around one
billion dollars, a foreign ministry source said.


But the source, who declined to be named, added that details of
the planned loan, including the total amount, have yet to be
decided.


"The UAE is playing an important role in Japan's security of
stable energy supply, and it is extremely significant to
strengthen ties with ADNOC, a key player in that context," the
bank said.


Japan is increasingly concerned by potential threats to its
energy supply.


It has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its own, and relies
for more than 70 percent of its oil supply on the four Gulf Arab
states that Abe is currently touring.


On the regional diplomatic front, Abe and Sabah agreed to make
more efforts to help subdue conflicts in Iraq.


"The two leaders confirmed that the stability of Iraq would
directly affect peace and prosperity of Kuwait," a Japanese
government official said.


"As a neighbour country, we will continue strengthening measures"
to help achieve stability in Iraq, Sabah was quoted by the
Japanese official as telling Abe.


Japan's first premier to be born after World War II plans to
visit its personnel posted in Kuwait for an air force mission
supporting US-led operations in Iraq on Tuesday.


Meanwhile, Abe voiced concern about Iran's nuclear crisis. Sabah
said: "If Iran uses nuclear energy peacefully, Kuwait can have
benefit. If Iran uses nuclear energy militarily, it will bring
some trouble to Kuwait."


The Japanese premier, who paid his first official visit to the
United States for a summit with US President George W. Bush last
Friday, is also due to visit Egypt and Qatar later this week.


This is the second trip to the Middle East by a Japanese premier
in less than a year. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
travelled to Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan last
July.

