

It is an unusual setting for what may well mark a changing of the
guard in Chinese cinema but the Renaissance architecture in this
northern Italian town has for nine years played champion to the
cause of the lesser lights of China's film industry.


While films such as Zhang Yimou's "Curse of the Golden Flower"
have held sway in terms of both production costs (45 million
dollars) and box office receipts (35 million dollars) for
domestic films in China over the past year, the opening up of the
country's film industry has seen a growing band of independent
and distinctly commercial directors start to make their mark.


With Chinese produced films taking 55 percent of the domestic box
office of 2.6 billion yuan (337.4 million US) last year, there's
plenty of encouragement for filmmakers and investors alike.


Like Zhang, too, they have one eye trained on the domestic market
and one on international potential.


"Circumstances are pushing things our way," said director Xie
Dong, whose drama "One Summer With You" screened at the Udine
festival last week.


"Whether or not we grab them, that is the question that needs to
be answered."


For organizers of the Far East Festival -- which lays claim to
screening the largest collection of commercial Asian films
outside Asia -- the plan has been to identify China's "next
generation" and give them an opportunity to find an audience
outside their own country.


This comes at a time when there has been unprecedented private
investment in Chinese films.


"We see the festival very much as a stepping stone for these
filmmakers," says the festival's programme co-ordinator Stephen
Cremin.


"They want the world to see what they are doing and we give many
of them the first chance to show the world.


"We are a small festival and realize that the likes of Cannes and
Berlin are the greater goal but we can help them get there."


Of the 50 films in competition in Udine this year, eight were
from China and a number of directors, producers and actors also
made the trip.


"It is the largest audience to have seen my movie in one
screening," producer Jimmy Wu said before a screening of his
thriller "Curiosity Killed The Cat".


The festival, he said, gave Chinese filmmakers a chance to show
an international audience "real life, what is happening in China.
Through our films you can see the rapid change and development".


With around 330 films produced in China in 2006, the output of
the industry is a far cry from the state propaganda machine it
was three decades ago, but those figures tell only part of the
story.


First, there is the quota of 20 overseas films allowed in for
screening each year.


"And of the 330 only less than 150 will make it to the cinemas,"
said Wu.


"The rest are straight to disc, or they just disappear and are
never seen. Competition is fierce and smaller films cannot
compete with the blockbusters made by Zhang Yimou, or Chen Kaige
("The Promise") or Feng Xiaogang ("The Banquet").


While state backing still favours the likes of Zhang, director
Chen Daming said he believed change was slowly taking place.


"The blockbusters still get more money for publicity. For my film
I simply had to go to each city where it was screening," Chen
said of his second feature, the comedy-drama "One Foot Off The
Ground".


"Zhang gets government support, wide release and a great deal of
money for promotion. But more and more people are investing in
film in China -- about 50 percent of it is private now -- so
there are less problems for small films.


"The main problem is getting the cinemas to show our films."


Outside the blockbusters, a wider international audience is
warming to Chinese cinema.


There were 27 Chinese-produced films screened in international
festivals in 2006, at which they won 44 awards, the highlight
being Jia Zhangke's Golden Lion in Venice for "Still Life".


For the Far East Film Festival's Maria Barbieri, who heads its
Chinese programming, the advent of a commercial market in China
has seen great change in the film industry there, change she says
will continue as more money is invested in film.


"Commercial films never really existed up until fairly recently,"
she said. "There were propaganda films, then there were art house
films. So it is a whole new experience for film makers and for
the industry.


"The interesting thing is for us to watch how the new generation
of commercial filmmakers will find their way."


Judging by the audience reaction to the Chinese films screened in
Udine, there is certainly a market for the films -- as long as
that market is made available.


"These are real stories but we make them in the tradition of
commercial films," says Wu.


"We want people to see them, and we want to make money from them.
It is only now that through festivals like this one, we are able
to show people what we are capable of."

