

Mother-of-nine Mbombo Lutumba stands in front of a pile of
drenched mattresses as she recounts her family's tale of woe
since being turfed out of a derelict apartment block in downtown
Johannesburg.


"The police and the Red Ants arrived at two in the morning. They
just threw everything out the window," says Lutumba.


Since their forcible eviction four weeks ago, the family have had
to endure wind, rain and plunging temperatures on the streets of
the City of Gold under a flimsy panoply of tarpaulin and on
bedding which has got ever damper.


"It rains all through the night. We haven't slept," says the
visibly exhausted Congolese refugee.


The Lutumba family's plight will be familiar to hundreds of other
people who have been expelled from derelict public and private
buildings by landlords anxious to reclaim their property and as
the city prepares to host the 2010 football World Cup.


The evictions received the go-ahead from the supreme court of
appeal (SCA) in a ruling on March 26 which annulled a previous
decision in favour of the inhabitants.


Nevertheless, the judgement also gave them a month to leave and
ordered the municipality to rehouse them.


"We are humbled by the SCA judgment. We undertake to do whatever
the court has ordered," said Councillor Ruby Mathang, a member of
the Johannesburg municipality's development planning committee.


According to Stuart Wilson, from the Centre for Applied Legal
Studies who is helping to represent the residents, the law
clearly states "that the inner city poor cannot be evicted
without any alternative accommodation" but fails to put a
timeframe on when that accommodation should be found.


"We are concerned that the judgement does not go far enough in
protecting the occupiers of so-called 'bad' buildings in
Johhanesburg inner city from arbitrary exercises of state power."


The UNHCR for its part is worried the phenomenon is only going to
increase.


"It is feared the court ruling will trigger a flurry of evictions
in coming months that could see 70,000 people, including refugees
and asylum seekers, expelled from 235 buildings," said UNCHR
spokeswoman Pumla Rulashe.


On a visit to South Africa last month, Miloon Kothari, the UN's
special rapporteur on adequate housing, called for a moratorium
on the evictions which he said were "disturbing".


The security forces raided Coronia Gardens apartment block, home
to the Lutumbas in the suburb of Berea, at dead of night on March
28 -- two days after the judgement.


As well as the regular police, members of the Red Ants -- a team
of private security contractors' unit known by their distinctive
coloured outfits -- took part in the operation.


Around a thousand people, South Africans and refugees, a majority
from the Democratic Republic of Congo, used to live in this
rundown 13-storey building which has been boarded up.


Some people cleared out when they were first warned about their
eviction.


"But these people -- such as the Lutumbas -- stayed until the
last minute. They had been badly advised by lawyers who have told
them that things were going to be sorted out for them," Nzuzi
adds.


Mbombo's husband, Mardochee Lutumba, 67, says that his family of
11 had to live in a single bedroom and a small lounge for a
monthly rent of 1,500 rand (250 US dollars - 170 euros).


"It was expensive and there were always problems, no water, no
electricity."


Pastor Ibrahim Ilunga, a spokesman for the homeless of Coronia
Gardens, explains that most refugees find it difficult to rent
given the number of children, a lack of resources and proper
documentation.


"The problem is that the South African administration is only
giving them a basic A-4 piece of paper with their name and
picture which is not recognised as a proper form of identity," he
said.

