

Israeli lawmakers called on Monday for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
to resign after a government inquiry blasted him for "serious
failure" in handling last year's Lebanon war.


The Winograd Commission held Olmert, Defence Minister Amir Peretz
and former chief of staff Dan Halutz principally responsible for
a litany of failures of the 34-day conflict after a seven-month
investigation.


"If each or anyone of those would have acted better, the
decisions and the results of the war would have been different or
better," retired judge Eliahu Winograd said, presenting the
commission's first partial report on the war.


The severe criticism immediately prompted calls from critics of
the beleaguered premier for him to step down.


"This government should resign, it no longer has the moral right
to govern," said Gideon Saar, who heads the parliamentary faction
of the main right-wing opposition Likud party.


"We need either a new government or new elections," said Ophir
Pines-Paz, a lawmaker from the centre-left Labour party, Olmert's
main coalition partner.


"Peretz and Olmert cannot continue in their posts," said Pines-
Paz, who resigned as culture minister last October in protest
over the ultra-nationalist Yisrael Beitenu party joining the
governing coalition.


Olmert, weakened by months of criticism over the war and a string
of corruption scandals implicating him and senior members of his
government, vowed to learn the lessons of the report and to
correct mistakes made.


"We shall examine the report and immediately try to learn the
lessons we must learn and correct all the mistakes," Olmert told
Winograd and commission members as they handed him a copy of the
report before making it public.


"We must ensure that in any future scenario in the state of
Israel, the failures that you point out will be corrected,"
Olmert said.


The report said that he made decisions hastily and without proper
preparations and overly relied on advice from the military, while
accusing Peretz and Halutz of having "failed" in their posts.


But it stopped short of calling for resignations.


Olmert has said that he would not resign unless explicitly called
to do so by the commission.

