

The new capability of the Tamil Tigers to carry out airborne
attacks has not only made them a rarity among the world's
guerrilla outfits but has also badly shaken an entire country.


Sri Lanka's defence ministry has acknowledged that the Tigers may
be operating at least five light aircraft, used in three
headline-grabbing raids against military and civilian targets
over the past month.


The Tigers already possess an effective naval unit known as the
Sea Tigers.


The Tiger air force may be minuscule compared with Sri Lanka's
fleet -- which comprises supersonic jets, spy planes and
helicopter gunships -- but so far government forces have failed
miserably in countering the flying Tigers.


"You can understand that the Tigers will use a light aircraft
once, but there is something wrong when the air force is not able
to take it out after three attacks," said retired brigadier
general Vipul Boteju.


The authorities switched off power to the capital of one million
people when the Tigers carried out their third bombing raid here
on Sunday, targeting two oil depots. The city was thrown into a
state of panic.


In the wake of the attack, several international airlines
announced they were cancelling or altering their flights to the
island's only international airport, whose runway is also used by
Sri Lankan air force jets -- a prime target for the rebels.


The Sri Lankan military, however, is insisting that the Tiger air
threat is a "joke."


"These light planes can't do much damage," said army chief Sarath
Fonseka, who appeared on national television shortly after the
guerrillas bombed the main military complex in the north of the
island last week.


"It is a joke. You can drop a bomb from any flying thing. Even
tossing a grenade while riding a swing is an 'air attack,'"
Fonseka said.


"The maximum damage that the Tiger planes can do is equivalent to
two mortar bombs hitting a bunker," Fonseka added, asserting that
the armed forces were capable of taking care of the guerrilla's
new air wing.


Pictures released by the Tigers indicate they operate Czech-built
Zlin Z-143 single engine, four-seater light aircraft modified to
carry four bombs mounted on the undercarriage.


According to Morovan Aeroplanes, which manufactures the Zlin, the
Z-143 is a versatile airplane designed "for the pilots who want
more than straight flying from point A to point B."


"Night and IFR (instrument flight rules) training and flying and
great flight characteristics and additional instruments make the
ZLIN easy to fly at night or (in) low visibility conditions,"
according to Morovan.


It is not clear whether the Tigers have extensively modified the
aircraft, which military sources believe may have been bought
from a source in South Africa, but the standard version has a
wing span of just over 10 metres (33 feet) and an endurance of up
to five hours and 10 minutes.


It has a maximum level cruising speed of 260 kilometres (162
miles) an hour and cannot be intercepted by the supersonic jets
of the Sri Lankan air force, which are too fast and do not have
air-to-air attack capability.


The two passenger seats can be removed to give room for extra
fuel and a bigger payload. It can take off and land from
unprepared surfaces, needing only 640 metres to take off and 765
metres to land.


Shortly after the first Tiger attack on its main airbase, which
shares a runway with the international airport, the air force
said it failed to bring down the Tiger aircraft because it did
not have night flying capability.


A week later the government announced it was carrying out night
time air raids against suspected Tamil Tiger positions to
demonstrate it was by then able to fly at night. But the Tigers
have flown two more night sorties unchallenged.


The only time a Mi-24 helicopter gunship was scrambled to
intercept the flying Tigers, the chopper developed engine trouble
and crash landed.


Sri Lanka's military was aware of an air strip built by the
Tigers for several years and in 2005 the government lodged a
formal complaint with Nordic truce monitors who are observing a
now moribund ceasefire.


It is not clear if the Tigers use the clearing in Iranamadu,
which can be clearly seen on satellite images, as the base for
their Zlin aircraft. The clearing has been bombed by the air
force several times.


Military sources believe that the Tigers smuggled in the aircraft
in knocked- down form two years ago and assembled them in
territory held by them.


The lax supervision soon after the December 2004 tsunami may have
helped the Tigers, according to defence sources.


Speaking to Colombo-based diplomats, a top military officer on
Monday admitted that security forces were "still learning" how to
deal with the new threat from the Tigers, who are better known
for their suicide bombings.

