

British Defence Secretary Des Browne met Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki in Baghdad on Monday to discuss efforts to improve
security and hand over security responsibility to Iraqi forces.


Maliki emphasised "the importance of accelerating the
rehabilitation of the Iraqi armed forces which will help
tremendously in reducing the dangers that face coalition forces,"
according to his office.


The talks followed a meeting between Browne and Defence Minister
Abdul Qader Jassim Mohammed in which they discussed progress in
the war against Al-Qaeda in the western province of Anbar, the
Iraqi defence ministry said.


The province, considered the heartland of the country's Sunni
insurgency, has grown quieter in recent months following a
decision by some of the region's more powerful clans to side with
US-led forces against Al-Qaeda.


Browne "expressed his satisfaction regarding the decision of the
tribes in Anbar to confront the terror in the city," according to
the statement.


Throughout the visit Browne praised the 7,100 British troops
operating in the south of the country, and the Iraqi forces which
have recently taken over responsibility for three bases in the
port city of Basra.


"Our forces' commitment and their courage is inspiring," Browne
said during a visit to the Basra Air Station, a multinational
forces base.


"Regulars and reservists alike of 19 Light Brigade have braved
many dangers and overcome tough conditions to make their
contribution to improvements in Basra," he added, according to a
British statement.


"Under their mentoring the Iraqi army and security forces have
continued to mature, and it is immensely encouraging to see the
willingness and enthusiasm with which they are now conducting
security operations."


While in Basra the defence secretary was told of the death of
Rifleman Paul Donnachie from the 2nd Battalion, who was shot
while on patrol in the city on Sunday morning.


"This is terrible news. As ever, my deepest sympathies are with
Rifleman Donnachie's family, friends and comrades at this
difficult time."


"Our forces face great risks as they go about their duties, and
they do so with tremendous fortitude, grit and professionalism,"
he said.


At least 146 British soldiers have died since the March 2003 US-
led invasion, including 11 since the beginning of April.

