

A report commissioned by some of Australia's leading companies
argues there is a strong business case for private enterprise
here to help alleviate poverty in the Asia-Pacific region.


The report says helping overcome poverty in the world's fastest-
growing economic region could improve the long-term bottom line
of Australian companies, as well as addressing humanitarian
issues.


The report, commissioned by a World Vision-backed group called
the Business for Poverty Relief Alliance, said Australian
business could help bring stability to the region, creating new
markets for its products in the process.


It also warned Australian companies must carefully source
materials and services in the Asia-Pacific region to avoid the
"sweat-shop" controversies that have plagued major sportswear and
retailing multinationals.


The recently-formed business alliance involves major Australian
companies such as ANZ Bank, Grey Global Group, IAG, Pfizer and
Visy Industries.


It commissioned the report from Melbourne-based private
enterprise policy group Allen Consulting to examine the pros and
cons of companies becoming involved in attempts to reduce
poverty, particularly in the Asia-Pacific area.


The conclusion was that companies in one of the region's richest
economies had much to gain by promoting development among their
neighbours.


"There is a strong business case for Australian companies to
focus on, and to do more to address, the plight of the poor in
developing nations," the report concluded.


"Global poverty represents a direct threat to the current and
future prosperity of a range of Australian businesses through
loss of potential markets, damage to foreign affiliates and a
greater risk of regional instability.


"In addition, contributing to the development of poor countries
by generating income, creating jobs and investing in local
businesses and skills can present Australian firms with the
opportunities of new markets."


The report found few Australian firms were acting to tackle
poverty in their closest export markets, even though more than 25
percent of the nation's trade was with low-income countries such
as China, Thailand, India, Indonesia.


"Australia's island geography creates an illusion of isolation
from the world's poor," it said.


"In fact, the opposite is true -- as an island nation, Australia
is highly integrated with the world economy, including numerous
developing countries."


World Vision Australia chief executive Tim Costello said
corporate Australia needed to be more socially aware and follow
the example set by some of America's business leaders.


"In the US, the work of Bill Gates and Warren Buffett has made
corporations aware of how fundamental it is for them to be
involved," he said.


The report called for Australian companies to increase investment
in poverty relief initiatives, ensure Asian workers were not
exploited and lobby for Canberra to increase its international
aid program.


It also said the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
leaders' summit in Sydney in September provided an excellent
opportunity for business leaders to encourage governments to
address the issue of poverty reduction.

