

The man tipped to be Britain's next prime minister may be in for
a severe constitutional headache this week, if nationalists
become the biggest party in Scotland's parliament.


Finance minister Gordon Brown, a Scot widely expected to succeed
Tony Blair in London, faces the threat of growing independence
calls in his native country, as he prepares to assume power down
south.


If the Scottish National Party (SNP) wins elections for the
Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh Thursday, those threats could
move a step closer to reality.


"Gordon Brown will be the last prime minister in Britain," the
SNP candidate for the Dunfermline East constituency, Ewan Dow,
told AFP. Dow's party wants a vote on the matter by 2010 if it
gets into power.


But independence issues aside, while Brown has his detractors in
London and within the governing Labour Party, a different picture
emerges of his abilities north of the border.


Dow praises his fellow Scot, whose British parliamentary
constituency overlaps Dunfermline East, while his opponent,
Labour's Helen Eadie, can hardly contain her glee at his imminent
promotion.


"I'm delighted he's going to become prime minister," says Eadie,
who successfully campaigned for Brown to become a lawmaker in the
1983 general election.


"I have seen (Labour prime minister) Harold Wilson, I was a
member of (prime minister) Jim Callaghan's campaign team. They
all had their own special qualities. But there's something
really, really special about him (Brown).


"He's truly inspirational. Whenever I hear him I never cease to
be amazed at his intellect but it's deeper than that. He has such
concern and care for people," she told AFP.


Locals in the well-heeled commuter town of North Queensferry,
next to Eadie's base in Inverkeithing and where Brown has a home
high on the hill overlooking Edinburgh to the south, also praise
the church-going Scot.


"As an individual and a person, they respect him. He's well-liked
in the community. He's been an asset for me and he's an asset in
Fife," says Jim Philp, a local Labour councillor.


As Eadie admits she's puzzled about the attacks on Brown ("I
don't understand how people don't see him as I do"), her husband
and campaign manager Bob is less than enthusiastic about Blair.


"I never mention him," he says, refusing to say why.


The SNP, seeking to unseat Labour as the largest party in
Edinburgh, have campaigned hard on Blair's integrity, as well as
the divisive Iraq war.


Polls have been less than complimentary about Blair's sincerity,
trustworthiness and attitude to Scottish matters.


Surprise British parliament by-election and municipal council
election losses by Labour in Brown's backyard in 2006 were widely
blamed on the unpopularity of Blair and Labour.


Bob Eadie concedes the SNP sees that as an electoral asset, but
says Blair, Iraq and his integrity are not mentioned on the
doorstep.


Dow begs to differ as he campaigns in Kelty, nine miles (14
kilometres) north of Inverkeithing.


Several locals in the close-knit former mining village criticise
Blair, while Iraq comes up several times -- perhaps
unsurprisingly as a local Black Watch regiment soldier was killed
there with two colleagues in 2004.


His family later voiced concern about British involvement in
Iraq.


Dow, a 35-year-old funeral director who arranged the soldier's
funeral as well as that of Brown's baby daughter, Jennifer, who
died in 2002, says it's a common view -- and Brown would do well
to heed the warnings.


Brown, set to become the first prime minister to represent a
Scottish constituency since 1964, could be "hit hard" if more
local soldiers are killed, and there's resentment over his
perceived squeeze on pensions, he adds.


"Gordon is regarded as a very good constituency MP," Dow said.
"It's amazing that he has escaped the same dislike Tony Blair
has, even though he's part of the New Labour project.


"But it will be interesting if he escapes it when he becomes
prime minister."

