

Nine Muslims accused of stockpiling chemicals and explosive
detonators have been ordered to stand trial on charges of
planning terror attacks in Sydney, Australian court officials
said Tuesday.


Magistrate Michael Price on Monday ruled that the men must stand
trial after they were arrested last year in Australia's largest-
ever counter-terrorism operation, a court official told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


"The nine were committed to stand trial in the Supreme Court and
will appear in that court on June 1, 2007," the official said.


The nine appeared in March in a magistrates court in Penrith,
west of Sydney, under a heavy blanket of security to allow Price
to establish if they had a case to answer.


They were charged with planning terrorist strikes in Australia's
most populous city, Sydney, reportedly including the bombing of
its Lucas Heights nuclear reactor.


They were arrested in Sydney in November 2005 as part of a
crackdown by security services in which a total of 18 Muslims
were detained there and in Melbourne.


The nine suspects had allegedly been urged by their leader, an
Islamic cleric, to inflict "maximum damage" in Australia for the
sake of jihad, or holy war.


At the time of their arrest, police alleged group members
attended jihad training camps, stockpiled chemicals and
detonators to make explosives and planned a "large-scale
terrorist attack".


A court last September ordered 11 men to stand trial on terrorism
charges.


The prosecutor in that case said the men were strongly inspired
by Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and one of the accused, cleric
Abdul Nacer Benbrika, had urged the others to wage holy war and
wreak havoc.


They were arrested days after the government passed tough new
anti-terrorism legislation making it easier for police to
prosecute suspects involved in the early stages of planning
attacks.


Prime Minister John Howard pushed the legislation through
parliament after expressing concern that Australia could face
attacks similar to the deadly London transport bombings in July
2005.

