

China and Russia are among the worst global offenders in failing
to crack down on rampant piracy of US patents and copyrights, an
annual US government report charged Monday.


The annual scorecard, known as the Special 301 report for the
section of US law on which it is based, voiced Washington's
concern about well-established counterfeiting industries it said
operated in both countries.


"High levels of copyright piracy and trademark counterfeiting
remain of concern," the report said of China, while also chiding
Russian authorities on protection of intellectual property rights
(IPR).


"Large-scale production and distribution of IP-infringing optical
media and minimally restrained Internet piracy are among major
problems that require more enforcement action," the report by the
US Trade Representative's office (USTR) stated.


This year's report was issued several weeks after Washington
formally lodged a complaint on Chinese copyright piracy before
the World Trade Organization. US trade officials declined to
comment on that complaint Monday.


US business executives have long complained about foreign
counterfeiting of American goods, including Hollywood films, but
also music CDs, designer goods and even industrial equipment.
Chinese and Russian counterfeiters are often blamed for churning
out such fake goods.


Despite its complaints, the USTR said there had been "evidence"
of late of improving IPR oversight in both countries.


China claimed earlier this month that it had confiscated over 90
percent of the pirated CDs and DVDs produced nationwide last
year. Officials said they seized a whopping 110 million illegal
CDs and DVDs in the crackdown.


The USTR named a total 43 countries for failing to provide
adequate IPR protections, but the 12 worst were ranked on a
"priority watch list" for extra scrutiny.


In addition to China and Russia, the 10 other countries
identified in the report were Argentina, Chile, Egypt, India,
Israel, Lebanon, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Venezuela.


Washington said it will be watching Russia's enforcement efforts
closely this year.


"The coming months will be a critical period, as Russia moves to
implement a variety of legal and law enforcement improvements to
which it committed as part of a bilateral agreement with the
United States on Russia's eventual accession to the World Trade
Organization," the report noted.


Officials said they were also working with Beijing to strengthen
China's IPR regime. China is one of America's largest trading
partners.


Copyright infringement in south American giant Brazil meanwhile
was downgraded, the report revealed, saying Brazilian authorities
had made "significant improvements" in policing such illicit
activity.


Aside from the illegal trade in goods, US officials said that the
market in fake drugs has become "a particularly grave concern,"
especially because of the risk it presents to human health and
safety.


IPR piracy is a global problem, however, and it is relatively
easy to buy counterfeited goods, such as films and CDs, from
markets in New York and even from street vendors in Washington
near USTR headquarters.


The annual review is based on reports from US embassies and trade
missions as well as from American businesses and other sources.

