

AC Milan believe the San Siro crowd can roar them to the
Champions League final as they look to overturn a 3-2 deficit
against Manchester United here on Wednesday.


United edged the first leg of a pulsating semi-final at Old
Trafford, but Milan's two away goals, both scored by Brazilian
talent Kaka, means a 1-0 win will be enough for the Italian side
to reach the Athens showpiece on May 23.


Milan's tenacious midfielder Gennaro Gattuso, who has been passed
fit to play after recovering from the foot injury he suffered in
the first leg, is counting on the home support to be their 12th
man.


"Our fans are always there for us and they always cheer us on,"
said the 29 -year-old Italian World Cup winner.


"This time it's special though, as they need to give us an
incredible hand. We will give our all, but they must take us even
further."


Clarence Seedorf, Gattuso's midfield partner, believes the Milan
crowd will not let them down.


"Our fans are even more passionate than we are," said the
Dutchman, the only player to have won the Champions League with
three different clubs.


"The United fans were great at Old Trafford, but ours will be
even better. It will be a San Siro unlike any other occasion."


Milan captain Paolo Maldini is battling to be fit after
aggravating the knee injury at Old Trafford which forced him to
come off at half time.


Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti has hinted he will drop striker
Alberto Gilardino, anonymous in the first leg, in favour of
veteran penalty box predator Filippo Inzaghi.


"Gilardino has only scored one goal in the Champions League and
that highlights the difference between that competition and the
league," Ancelotti said.


"There's more pressure on strikers to score in the Champions
League, and Gilardino is not experienced enough yet to cope with
it."


United come into the match on a real high after moving five
points clear of Chelsea at the top of the Premiership on Saturday
with just three games to go, and having reached the FA Cup final.


"We are in a magnificent situation and we go to the San Siro with
our morale sky high," said United coach Sir Alex Ferguson after
his side fought back from 2-0 down at Everton to win 4-2 on
Saturday.


Ferguson has demanded the same tigerish aggression from Paul
Scholes, despite the threat of the Manchester United midfielder
sitting out a second Champions League final through suspension.


Scholes goes into the second leg knowing a yellow card will rule
him out of the final if Ferguson's side win through.


And that would mean an agonising repeat of the set of
circumstances that forced the former England international to
miss United's 1999 Champions League final triumph over Bayern
Munich.


"We have to think of the team, and Paul has to make sure he
doesn't get booked, that's without question," Ferguson said.


"The advice we gave him in the first leg was not to slide in and
make tackles because that's where he gets all his bookings.


"In Europe, they just don't accept it, sliding in. So if he stays
on his feet and tackles properly he won't be no problem.


"You can't have a player in the semi-finals of the European Cup
and say to him don't tackle."


Ferguson accepts his injury-ridden defence will struggle to deny
Milan in their own stadium, but he has backed his own side to
score at least once.


"I don't agree with the view that it is vital we don't go over
there and concede," he added.


"I wouldn't say we are favourites, but I think we have given
ourselves a great chance. A goal lead is a great start in
European football, and I think there will be good counter-attack
possibilities in our side."


Milan are aiming to reach their 10th European Cup/Champions
League final and United their third.

