

US Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama's popularity
has grown among likely voters, according to a poll released
Monday which suggested he was gaining on rival frontrunner
Hillary Clinton.


The poll by the Rasmussen Institute predicted Obama would get 32
percent of the vote in February's primary, compared to 30 percent
for Clinton, who until now has been the consistent favorite for
the Democratic party.


While the report noted that it marked the first time a candidate
other than Clinton came out on top, it nevertheless pointed out
that Obama's percentage gain was "statistically insignificant."


In addition, the results were culled through a Rasmussen Reports
national telephone survey that was conducted April 23-26, with
most answers given in advance of the first Democratic debate
which was held Thursday, April 26.


Another poll next week would gauge the candidates' performance in
the debate, the report said.


However, the survey has shown a steady decline in Clinton's
support base. The same poll in March showed the New York senator
and wife of former US president Bill Clinton had a 12 percent
advantage over Obama.


Differences were also emerging in the demographics of the two
candidates' support bases.


Obama, 45, the mixed-race Illinois senator who was born to a
white American mother and a Kenyan father, leads among voters
under 40, it said.


Clinton, 59, is strongest in the 65-and-older bracket.


Clinton has a two-point edge among Democrats. Obama has a
nineteen-point lead among independents likely to vote in the
Democratic primary, which is eight months away.


Clinton piled up 26 million dollars in campaign contributions
according to campaign finance disclosures released earlier this
month, while Obama came in a close second with 25 million
dollars.


The nearest contender to Obama and Clinton was former senator
John Edwards with 17 percent of the likely vote in the primary,
which determines the Democratic candidate in the US presidential
election scheduled for November 2008.


None of the other eight main Democratic contenders garnered more
than three percent.

