

The Miami Heat's run for a second straight title ended meekly as
they bowed out of the National Basketball League playoffs after
being swept in four games by the Chicago Bulls.


The season was framed by embarrassing home losses to the Bulls -
a 42-point setback on opening night that spoiled the raising of
the franchise's first championship banner and a 13-point loss
Sunday to the same Bulls.


In between, there were injuries to just about every key team
member, including coach Pat Riley. Two players served brief
suspensions for being out of shape, and two others were arrested.


"I think about the season and all that we had to go through,"
Alonzo Mourning said after the season-ending loss.


"I wish I had the rights to the season because I could have
turned it into a (television) mini-series."


In fact, there were very few nights were the Heat answered the
call. A loss to - who else? - Chicago on January 27 dropped Miami
to 19-25 and had some wondering if the club would even make the
playoffs.


The Heat did not move above .500 for good until March 5. They
backed into the Southeast Division title with a pedestrian 44-38
mark as the Washington Wizards collapsed under the weight of
injuries to All-Stars Gilbert Arenas and Caron Butler.


"(We had) injuries and guys not being together all 82 games, but
we hung in there and won our division and got the four spot,"
giant centre Shaquille O'Neal said.


But much more was expected from the Heat, who returned virtually
the same roster that rallied around Riley's mantra of "Fifteen
Strong" to win the title. There is a fine line between
experienced and old, and the Heat appeared to cross it.


"With all of the injuries, we just changed," said forward Antoine
Walker, one of the players briefly suspended for not meeting
conditioning requirements. "Last year we didn't change. We stayed
the course throughout the regular season. Guys who played were in
the rotation no matter what happened."


O'Neal, who appears to be more susceptible to injury each season,
missed 35 games due to knee surgery.


Even Riley - who waited until August last year before announcing
he would return as coach - missed five weeks after undergoing
long-delayed surgery on his hip and knee, ailments he was trying
to address with medication.


But the biggest injury was to superstar guard Dwyane Wade, who
missed more than six weeks with a dislocated shoulder.  Perhaps
it gave under the weight of carrying the team, which he had been
doing since the 2006 postseason.


Wade could have opted for season-ending surgery but instead chose
rehabilitation and the chance to return for a stretch run that
hopefully would build momentum to carry into the postseason, much
the way the Heat did a year ago.


But upon his return, Wade clearly was not the same player. He had
trouble finishing around the rim and handling the ball, and those
slight shortcomings in his game made him guardable again.


"Great players take it all on their shoulders and maybe we put a
little too much on him and he puts a lot on himself, so things
will have to change from that standpoint," Riley said.

