

A few hundred Jews still live in Yemen despite temptations to
leave the impoverished country, but recent threats by rebels from
the Zaidi minority are driving some from their homes.


Threats by the rebels, who are fighting to restore the Zaidi
imamate that was overthrown in a 1962 coup, were taken seriously
by some nine Jewish families who until recently lived in the
northern province of Saada.


All 45 of them have since fled their homes.


Several Jews were quoted as saying that they feared for
themselves and their families after they were repeatedly warned
by the rebels to leave immediately.


They said the rebels from the Zaidi community, an offshoot of
Shiite Islam that is dominant in the northern mountains but a
minority in mainly Sunni Yemen, gave them a 10-day ultimatum.


The provincial authorities in Saada took care of the Jewish
families who fled the Al-Salem district and hosted them in a
local hotel.


But they soon had to be transferred to the capital Sanaa as the
security situation deteriorated amid fierce fighting between the
rebels and government forces.


The Yemeni government put up the fleeing families in one of
Sanaa's few luxury hotels.


The government's hospitality went as far as handing out money and
supplies to allow them to celebrate Passover in early April.


"The government has provided us with the celebration kit,
including the (traditionally) slaughtered lamb and clothes," the
official Saba news agency quoted one Jew as saying.


State media reported the Jewish celebrations for the first time,
in an apparent bid to reduce international concern over the
threats against the Jews.


In January, Israel vowed to investigate reports that Jews in the
predominantly Muslim country had received death threats.


One rebel leader, Abdel Malak al-Huthi, confirmed in February
that threats had been made against Jews in Al-Salem village to
make them leave.


"These Jews have a problem with the other inhabitants of the
region, who have complained about them," he told the Arabic-
language satellite channel Al- Jazeera.


"The people have demanded that these Jews leave because they have
provoked damage... by their admitted meddling in regional affairs
and their moral corruption," he charged.


The three-year-old rebellion led by the Huthi family has left
hundreds dead. Intense fighting resumed in January and has been
raging in Saada province near the Saudi border ever since.


Elsewhere in Yemen, the remainder of the 300-strong Jewish
minority -- the last remants of a once much bigger community --
continue to live safely.


Some insisted they had no intention of emigrating.


"We have refused to leave Yemen, because we feel that the
situation here is better. As Yemenis, we have our conservative
customs and traditions," 43-year- old Saeed al-Naati told AFP.


"We feel that we are equal to Muslim citizens in rights and
duties," said Naati, who lives in Kharef on the outskirts of
Raydah, some 70 kilometres (40 miles) north of Sanaa.


He is one of the few, however. In 1948, Yemen's Jewish community
numbered some 60,000 but with the establishment of the Jewish
state that year, more than 48,000 emigrated to Israel in the
following three years.


The community continued to dwindle in the following decades and
by the early 1990s it numbered only around 1,000 people.


The lifting of a longstanding travel ban in 1993 sparked a fresh
exodus.


It is now mainly the elderly who cling on. With international
Jewish organisations offering to pay for their higher education
abroad, many of the new generation prefers to leave.


The United States and Britain rather than Israel now top the list
of preferred destinations.


Yemeni Jews currently have two synagogues, down from a reported
39 in the capital alone in 1930.


They also have two private schools in Raydah and Kharef, which
are funded by American Jewish societies. Jewish pupils go only to
these two schools where they study Hebrew, Arabic and English and
learn the tenets of their religion.


But unlike the rest of the population of Yemen, Jews refrain from
carrying weapons, in a country where almost every civilian male
is armed. They do not even carry the traditional jambiya or
dagger -- an essential accessory for Muslim men in Yemen.


This Jewish tradition is based on their status as people of the
book whose protection was considered the duty of the Muslim
society in which they live.

