

Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon held talks here Monday
on wide- ranging issues, ahead of key discussions aimed at
kickstarting a landmark nuclear cooperation deal with the US.


Menon was meeting Monday with US under secretary of state for
global affairs and democracy Paula Dobriansky to discuss issues
of common concern such as the environment and HIV, Indian embassy
officials said.


The civilian nuclear agreement "is one of the issues which will
be discussed tomorrow (Tuesday)" in talks with US Under Secretary
of State for Political Affairs Nicholas Burns, embassy press
attache Rahul Chhabra told AFP.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said earlier Monday
that the United States would like to rapidly finalize the
landmark civilian nuclear deal struck in July 2005.


"We will get this deal done," McCormack said. "I think the
meetings coming up over the next couple of weeks will give us a
good indication of how quickly a deal can get done."


He added the United States was interested in "what sort of ideas
the Indian government comes to the table with," on the issue.


Tuesday's talks will focus on the accord under which India wins
access to US nuclear fuel and technology for civilian use without
requiring New Delhi to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty
as required by US law.


But differences persist, chiefly over a clause which states the
United States would withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and
equipment if India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear
testing.


India has a "very clear approach" on the deal, Menon said in a
report tabled in the Indian parliament on Thursday.


He was seeking to dispel fears from Indian atomic scientists and
critics who say the agreement will put restrictions on the
country's nuclear weapons program.


"Whatever we do with the US will not affect our nuclear strategic
program," Menon said.


The nuclear energy deal is the centerpiece of India's new
relationship with Washington after decades of Cold War tensions
and is part of New Delhi's efforts to expand energy sources to
sustain its booming economy.


Burns on Sunday predicted that in the coming years New Delhi
would become a main US strategic partner, hailing ties as "the
strongest relationship the two countries have enjoyed since
India's independence in 1947."


"The pace of progress between Washington and Delhi has been so
rapid, and the potential benefits to American interests so
substantial, that I believe within a generation Americans may
view India as one of our two or three most important strategic
partners," Burns wrote in an opinion piece in Sunday's Washington
Post.


Burns also noted that Washington considers the nuclear deal,
which the US Congress approved overwhelmingly in December, the
centerpiece of the new warmer relations.


"When fully implemented in 2008, this initiative will permit
American and international companies to begin peaceful civilian
nuclear cooperation with India for the first time in more than a
generation."


But he added that the two countries can and should go even
further in their bilateral cooperation, highlighting two areas:
counterterrorism and the military.


Indian experts have meanwhile warned that India must act fast on
the nuclear deal, saying that with the US presidential elections
looming next year the accord could soon drop off the radar screen
in Washington.


"There is genuine concern about the delay. India is not the
center of the universe for them," said G. Balachandran, visiting
Fellow at the Indian security think-tank Institute for Defence
Studies and Analyses.


One likely outcome was a compromise on the wording of the
agreement.


"The differences are over the consequences of nuclear testing.
The Americans can't take away the right to test. It's a matter of
reaching a compromise over the wording of the deal, not a
compromise of interests," he said.

