

Six years after having the Bundesliga title snatched away from
them, sleeping giants Schalke 04 face another anxious wait to see
if the unfashionable side can end their 59-year wait to be German
champions again.


While the likes of German glamour side Bayern Munich have often
lorded it over their less fashionable rivals from the heart of
Germany's industrial west, working-class favourites Schalke 04
have yet to win the Bundesliga.


In 2005, they topped the table by three points with nine games to
go, only to watch as Bayern passed them and won the league by a
massive 14 points.


But nothing could rival the bitter experience of May 19, 2001,
when on the last day of the season their 5-3 win over
Unterhaching seemed enough to seal their first crown with close
rivals Bayern Munich losing at Hamburg.


But an equaliser from Bayern's Patrik Andersson deep into injury
time was enough to give Bayern the precious point that took the
title to Munich and ruined Schalke's party in the cruellest
fashion.


This year, Bayern are out of this year's title race, but Schalke
must still see off the late challenges of Werder Bremen and VfB
Stuttgart with no room for error at the top.


Long-suffering Schalke fans are anxious for a return to the 1930s
glory days when their side were crowned champions five times -
between 1935 to 1939 they did not lose a single league match.


So successful were Schalke that they were heralded by Nazi
propaganda as an example of the "new Germany", despite the fact
their two stars, Fritz Szepan, Germany's captain, and Ernst
Kuzorra, were descended from Polish immigrants.


From an area heavily reliant on the local mines, the fans loved
Schalke as their heros would often work alongside them in the
pits before beating visiting sides later that same day.


But the mines, and the local area's main resource, have closed in
the last ten years leaving high unemployment in it's wake.


And the last of Schalke's seven German titles, won when regional
winners played off against each other, came in 1958 and since the
Bundesliga's inception in 1963, they have often gone close, but
never been crowned champions.


The club went through dark days in 1971 when it was discovered
Schalke had thrown a game against Arminia Bielefeld and several
players were fined.


Schalke spent most of the 1980s flirting with relegation and
spent three separate seasons in the second division, but have
been ever present in the Bundesliga since 1991, winning the UEFA
Cup in 1997.


Striker Gerald Asamoah still has clear memories of the 2001
heartbreak.


"When I think of that game, it just brings up a lot of bad
dreams," said Asamoah.


"I remember it well, I was drinking a bottle of beer and thinking
of heading to the dressing-room to celebrate with the boys.


"Then everything in the stadum went quiet as they saw Bayern had
a free-kick on the television screens in the Schalke stadium.


"I knew something was wrong and put the bottle down before I
dropped it. Then the nightmare happened and the goal went in."


Even though Schalke are locked in a three-way battle and will
again have to fight to the last ball is kicked, Asamoah believes
they can do it.


"That would be the greatest thing in the world," said the 28
-year-old.


"I think our fans would party for a month and most of the squad
would probably join them."


Schalke must beat Nuremberg, fighting for a UEFA Cup place, as
well as relegation contenders Borussia Dortmund and Arminia
Bielefeld, while hoping Stuttgart and Bremen fall off the pace.


Perhaps their biggest challenge will be their penultimate game on
May 12 when they have to travel to neighbours and deadly-rivals
Dortmund who are loitering just above the relegation zone.


But there will be no neighbourly love from Schalke's perspective
and Asamoah just wants to see Schalke's Brazilian captain Marcelo
Bordon finally lift the Bundesliga trophy.


"I have been waiting so long for this opportunity, we have won
the cup and been runners up in the league. Now, finally, I also
want to hold the trophy in my hands."

