

Lawmakers in the US Congress will send their controversial Iraq
war funding bill, with a timetable for withdrawing US troops from
the country, to the desk of President George W. Bush on Tuesday,
sources in the House of Representatives said.


The bill, which makes 124 billion dollars of military funding
conditional on pulling out most troops by March 2008, is likely
to be signed by the Democrat Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi
and Senate leader Harry Reid on Tuesday afternoon and then sent
to the White House, a spokesman for Pelosi said.


Bush has vowed to use his veto power to kill any bill containing
a timetable for withdrawal from violence-plagued Iraq, and has
urged lawmakers to pass the current proposal to him promptly so
work can begin on a new version.


The bill will be sent to Bush four years to the day after he
stood on an aircraft carrier in front of a banner reading
"Mission Accomplished," declaring that major combat operations in
the US-led invasion of Iraq had ended.


Four years on, the United States is pouring thousands more troops
into Iraq to try to stabilize the country, where insurgent
attacks and bombings have killed hundreds of people a week.


Bush reiterated his determination to veto the House's bill, which
he has said would tie the hands of those running the war on the
ground.


"I am about to veto a bill that has got artificial timetables for
withdrawal. But that's not the only bad thing about the bill," he
told reporters on Monday.


"It also imposes the judgment of people in Washington on our
military commanders and diplomats."


Bush is due to visit a military headquarters in Florida on
Tuesday, but has invited Democrat and Republican Congressional
leaders to the White House on Wednesday to tackle the funding
issue.


"I look forward to working with members of both parties to get a
bill that doesn't set artificial timetables and doesn't
micromanage and gets the money to our troops," he said Monday.


"I believe there's a lot of Democrats that understand that we
need to get the money to the troops as soon as possible."

