

Reigning champions Sweden cruised comfortably into the world
championship's qualifying round with a 100-percent record
following a confident 8-2 win over Latvia in the Group A match
here on Monday.


Nicklas Bakstrom put Sweden into the lead when the game was just
29sec old firing home with an unopposed shot from Jorgen
Jonsson's pass from behind the goal.


The Swedes were in complete command but failed to increase their
lead before the break as Latvia defended stoutly replying with
threats on the counter-attacks.


But in the second the Swedes stepped up a gear and sailed into a
commanding 4-0 lead as their rear guard Johan Akkerman and
forwards Rickard Wallin and Fredrik Bremberg scored one apiece.


Kaspars Daugavins and Alekseja Sirokovs both scored for Latvia
early in the third period but failed to save the day for their
squad as Magnus Johansson, Patric Hornqvist, Fredrik Warg and
Dick Tarnstrom all scored to secure Sweden's win.


In the other Group A match earlier on Monday Switzerland also
booked a place in the qualifying round following a tight 2-1 win
over Italy.


Switzerland dominated play from the start but managed to score
only once in the two opening periods as their attacking lines
experienced obvious lack of accuracy in front of Italy's net.


The Swiss blueliner Goran Bezina scored with 4:16 remaining in
the first period sending the puck in from Paul di Pietro's cross-
ice pass on powerplay.


After a goalless second period Switzerland payed their price for
wasting a hatful of chances as Italy's striker Luca Ansoldi
levelled firing home with a close-range shot from Roland
Ramoser's pass from behind the goal line.


But Ivo Rutheman put Switzerland 2-1 up at 51:57 sweeping in a
rebound after Italy's goalie Gunther Hell stopped Severin
Blindenbacher's shot from the left face-off circle again on
powerplay.


Italy threw caution to the wind and rushed ahead seeking for an
equaliser but Switzerland managed to keep their narrow lead to
proceed into the qualifying round.


The 2002 world champions Slovakia experienced few problems in a
Group C match with Germany, who won promotion into the elite
division last year, winning 5-1 at the ice of Mytishchi sports
palace.


However, in the two opening periods Slovakia managed to find the
net only twice both times through their defender Peter
Podhradsky, who scored a double on powerplay.


Christoph Ullmann reduced the arrears 7:30 into the last period
but Richard Kapus restored Slovakia's two-goal lead just two
minutes later. Marian Gaborik and Radovan Somik added one apiece
in the remaining time to secure Slovakia's win.


Meanwhile, Canada were trailing 1-0 in the first period of their
meeting with Norway as Lars Erik Spets put Scandinavian squad 1-0
up 9:29 into the match.


Columbus Blues Jackets' forward Rick Nash equalised four minutes
later, while his club teammate Jason Chimera put Canada 2-1 up.


However, Norway refused to surrender and pulled the scores level
through Jonas Andersen at 32:14, when Canada's Jonathan Toews was
sinbinned.


But Shane Doan of Phoenix Coyotes and Carolina Hurricanes' Justin
Williams saved Canada's pride both scoring in the third period to
avoid an unexpected points loss.

