

US stocks lost ground Monday as investors pulled back following a
record-setting series of sessions and digested the latest
economic news, which appeared to ease inflation fears.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 58.03 points (0.44 percent)
to 13,062.91 at the closing bell, after the blue-chip index set
three consecutive record highs last week and notched up a new
intraday high Monday of 13,162.02.


The Nasdaq composite tumbled 31.74 points (1.24 percent) to
2,525.47 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
retreated 11.72 points (0.78 percent) to a preliminary close of
1,482.35.


Analysts at Briefing.com cited some consolidation on the final
day of what appeared to be one of the best months for the market
in three years.


The market, which has been on a tear following better-than-
expected corporate earnings, digested news that US consumer
spending rose 0.3 percent in March and personal incomes increased
0.7 percent.


Although the spending figure was below expectations, traders
focused on the inflation component of the report showing core
prices up just 0.1 percent, and pushed up stocks in early trade
before a rally attempt fizzled.


But Todd Salamone at Schaeffer's Investment Research noted that
some investors are increasingly wary despite the records set on
Wall Street.


"Caution on the Street is rampant, as investors ponder the
seeming disconnect between the economy and decelerating earnings
growth with a stock market achieving new milestones," he said.


"And these impressive gains have come amid concerns of a
weakening dollar and a weakening economy. Even the dreaded 'R'
word (recession) is being batted around the financial press with
increasing regularity."


The analyst said the low expectations for corporate profits have
helped to fuel the recent rally as earnings have come in stronger
than expected.


"In some cases, the weak dollar has added positively to
multinationals bottom line, which has only raised more cautionary
flags as analysts fret over the quality of earnings," he said.

