

Oil prices slipped Monday on world markets amid profit-taking
after sharp gains last week following news of a possible
terrorist plot in key crude producer Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, dropped 75 cents to close at 65.71 dollars per
barrel, after soaring by 1.40 dollars on Friday.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
lost 76 cents to settle at 67.65 dollars per barrel.


Mike Fitzpatrick at Man Financial said there was "some profit
taking, possibly inspired by Iran's willingness to join the US
and other countries in a conference on Iraq."


He added that the logic behind the drop was "that this may help
ease some of the tensions in the Middle East that were elevated
by the Saudi terrorist news last week."


Friday's surge occurred after Saudi Arabia announced it had
foiled an attack on oil facilities, which was linked to al-Qaeda.


The news from the world's biggest oil exporter overshadowed weak
first-quarter growth data in the United States, which showed the
economy expanding by its weakest pace in four years.


Prices also rose last week on supply fears over crude producers
Iran and Nigeria, and concerns over tight US gasoline reserves
heading into the peak- demand season for American motor fuel.


However, some analysts said the market appears to have already
priced in a number of risks.


"There is a lack of upward momentum" in the oil market, said
Global Insight analyst Simon Wardell.


He added that "we didn't see the kind of potential violence in
Nigeria we had expected" after recent elections in Africa's
biggest crude-producing nation.


Tensions surrounding Iran eased after the Islamic republic said
it would attend a key conference on Iraq's security in Egypt
alongside the United States this week.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice did not rule out a meeting
her Iranian counterpart on the sidelines of the conference on
Iraq security, but said Iraq would be the only issue on the
agenda for the two nations.


US-Iranian relations have been strained further by Tehran's
nuclear program, which Washington charges masks an atomic weapons
program, despite the country's insistence that it is only for
civilian nuclear power.


Traders are concerned that Western pressure on Iran -- the
world's fourth- largest oil exporter -- could prompt it to cut
crude exports in retaliation.

