

Iran rejected a call for full compliance with nuclear safeguards
on Monday, stymieing the opening day of a conference here
preparing a review of the Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT),
diplomats said.


Delegates from some of the 188 countries taking part said they
feared the two- week meeting in Vienna could now descend into the
same procedural wrangling that tarnished the last review
conference in New York two years ago.


The stakes were even higher this time around, given the
developing nuclear crises concerning both Iran and North Korea,
they added.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh upset the opening session
when he said that an agenda item reaffirming the need for full
compliance with the treaty was not "appropriate," according to a
diplomat summarising the debate.


Soltanieh insisted the wording from 2005's agenda covering
compliance to the NPT should not be modified for the next review
meeting's agenda.


"This item could create disputes by creating too much focus on
one country. We don't want a direction given," Soltanieh said.


The meeting's chairman, Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano, told
AFP that he was surprised by the Iranian move: "I knew Iran had
some problems but this is something new ... Compliance has been
an issue in the NPT for a long time."


A diplomat said Iran's position showed it wanted to block a full
debate on compliance.


The NPT, which went into effect at the height of the Cold War in
1970 and was extended indefinitely in 1995, is reviewed every
five years. The last such meeting in 2005 failed to resolve any
key questions, with non-aligned countries and nuclear powers
bickering over an agenda.


The Vienna meeting is the first of a series of preparatory
sessions ahead of the next overall review in 2010, and it is
being held as Iran is being subjected to UN sanctions for
refusing to stop uranium enrichment.


Western powers say they fear Iran is developing a nuclear
arsenal, but Tehran denies this and says its nuclear program is a
peaceful effort to generate electricity.


German ambassador Ruediger Luedeking, speaking on behalf of the
EU presidency, said a debate on procedure would be "unproductive
and should not stand in the way of a substantial discussion" on
the problems with the NPT.


One diplomat said Arab nations, which normally back Iran at NPT
discussions, were "not happy because there is a reference (they
like) to resolutions on the Middle East (a call for a nuclear-
free-zone there) in the agenda."


Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik had opened the meeting
by saying: "Let us not mince words, the NPT is in a serious
crisis today."


Another diplomat noted that the Vienna meeting had to have
agreement on the agenda by mid-Wednesday, according to its rules.


North Korea's nuclear programme -- which, unlike Iran, has
actually produced atomic bombs -- was also a source of concern.
Negotiations to dismantle its operations have stalled.


The United States called Monday for cracking down on nations that
withdraw from the NPT, as North Korea did.


"It is important ... for us to make such withdrawal more
unattractive before any other State Party violator is tempted to
follow such a course," US head of delegation Christopher Ford
said.

