

Its gross domestic product has topped the trillion-dollar mark
and corporate profits are at record highs, but concerns are
surfacing that the Indian economic party is in trouble.


Last week, global ratings agency Moody's warned that India was
showing classic signs of an overheating economy -- when output is
unable to keep pace with demand.


Moody's said overheating symptoms included "higher than
acceptable" inflation coupled with strong growth, an increasing
trade deficit, a credit boom and a rapid currency appreciation.


"The pursuit of macroeconomic stability by India's monetary
authorities is at a critical phase and is important ... for
ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances," said
Moody's vice-president Kristin Lindow.


Leading Indian financial magazine Business Today posed the
question on everyone's minds bluntly on the cover of its latest
issue.


"Are the good times over?" the magazine asked after the economy's
breakneck ride during which it has expanded by an average of more
than 8.5 percent annually for the past four years.


The central bank has been moving aggressively to contain prices,
imposing a slew of rate cuts and other monetary tightening
measures.


But inflation has remained stubbornly above six percent for most
of the year and is more than a full percentage point over the
bank's target of five percent.


Inflation has become a hot-button political issue for the ruling
national Congress party as prices soar for everything from onions
to lentils, squeezing the poor, and has been blamed for its
defeat in two state elections this year.


The central bank now has made "price stability" its main goal,
switching from its previous policy of seeking growth while
tolerating moderate inflation.


India's economy still is expanding by nearly nine percent,
creating capacity problems as industries struggle to keep pace
with the demand of an increasingly affluent middle class.


Most factories are operating at full tilt and it could take up to
18 months to bring new capacity on stream, according to the
central bank.


Dilapidated ports, roads and airports have exacerbated the
situation, making it harder to transport goods.


The Indian rupee, meanwhile, which last week touched a nine-year
high to break below 41 per dollar, is in "uncharted waters," said
economist Rajiv Malik of JP Morgan in Singapore.


The rupee has appreciated 13.5 percent against the US dollar
since mid-2006 as investors have poured billions of dollars into
shares and other investments.


Much of the rupee surge has come in the last two months. The
central bank has adopted a hands-off approach to help check
prices by avoiding selling rupees for dollars and pumping
liquidity into the local banking system that fuels inflation.


The rupee rise has hit exporters which sell most of their goods
to the United States.


"The significant rupee exchange rate needs to be corrected if
exports -- especially those of small and medium size enterprises
-- are to remain competitive," said Malik.


Looking ahead, the big worry says Goldman Sachs is that
"inflation does not respond to monetary tightening due to supply
side constraints while growth slows due to continued rate hikes,
raising the spectre of stagflation."


Stagflation is the term economists use to describe sluggish
economic growth coupled with high inflation.


A period of stagflation would dash Indian policy-makers' hopes of
achieving double-digit growth levels needed to lift millions out
of poverty.


Economists now expect growth for this financial year to March 31,
2008 to be slower than last year's 9.2 percent.


Goldman Sachs, for instance, forecasts growth of eight percent
with risks "skewed to the downside due to the aggressive
tightening."


Earnings of automakers, banks and other sectors are all expected
to be hit by the monetary tightening in the months ahead. The
auto industry has reported car sales at a 13-month low as
consumers delay purchases due to higher loan costs.


T.K. Bhaumik, economist for India's biggest private company
Reliance Industries, said authorities should be cautious of over-
zealous tightening.


"When we had a long period of economic recession beginning in
1996-97, the trigger was the preoccupation with inflation," he
noted.

