

Armed with placards and faded photos of sons and daughters long
dead, the "Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo" Monday marked 30 years
of marching in memory of their children who vanished during
Argentina's dictatorship.


Now in their 70s, 80s -- a few even in their 90s -- the women
said they have no plans to end their weekly vigil, even though
the dictatorship that carried out the kidnappings, murders and
other atrocities that prompted their protest faded away nearly a
quarter-century ago.


"The only way they'd have stopped us is if they'd killed us,"
Mirta Acuna de Baravalle, 82, told AFP, saying the resolve to
march back then remained undiminished today.


For the past three decades, every Thursday afternoon promptly at
3:30 pm, the elderly women assemble for several turns around the
obelisk that adorns the Fifth of May Square in downtown Buenos
Aires.


In torrential downpours, as well as under the scorching sun, the
group holds its weekly vigils demanding information on their
children, believed to be among the estimated 30,000 people
abducted and murdered during Argentina's 1976-1983 military
dictatorship.


For some, the slow-motion procession has become a form of
therapy.


"This half-hour every week, I do it for me," said Josefina "Pepa"
Garcia de Noia.


"It's our special way of paying homage to our children."


The movement started on April 30, 1977, when 14 housewives
anguished over their missing children and fearlessly brushing
aside possible retribution, gathered in the square opposite the
Casa Rosa, the presidential palace.


When democracy was restored several years later, the mothers
continued to protest since Argentina's democratic governments
during the 1980s and 1990s did little to prosecute former
military officials.


The original protests went round the clock, and those ended just
over a year ago. Now the women hold their demonstration once a
week, still wearing the iconic white kerchiefs they wore during
the early protests three decades ago.


The original protest was the brainchild of Azucena Villaflor de
Vicenzi, who herself was kidnapped and joined the ranks of the
disappeared in December 1978.


Now however, instead of protesting the disappearance of their
children, they have broadened their action to encompass an array
of social causes.


"This fight has given us a dimension that no one expected, not
even us," 79 -year-old Hebe de Bonafini, president of the group
told AFP.


Their placards bear slogans like "prison for those who have
committed genocide."


"We'll keep going until the last mother can't walk any more,"
said de Bonafini.


Mirta Acuna de Baravalle, 82, said that after all these years,
she could not imagine stopping now.


"We feel the spirit of our children here," she said.

