

Iraq's neighbours and world powers gather for a two-day
conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh on Thursday
to discuss how to bring an end to the deadly violence still
plaguing the country.


The following is a chronology of more than four years of
bloodshed:


2003


- April 9: Twenty days after launching a massive air and land
assault on Iraq, US forces enter Baghdad and topple Saddam
Hussein's regime.


- May 1: From an aircraft carrier, President George W. Bush
announces that major combat is over. A banner behind him reads
"Mission Accomplished."


- August: Iraq is hit by the first of innumerable bomb blasts,
many causing horrific casualties. One blast kills the top UN
official in Iraq, and 10 days later another kills 83 people in
the Shiite holy city of Najaf.


- December: US forces capture Saddam, unkempt and hiding in a
hole in the ground. "We got him," crows the US-appointed ruler of
the country.


2004


- March: In the first major exit from the US-led coalition, Spain
decides to pull out its forces following devastating bomb attacks
in Madrid.


- April: US media show photographs taken by US military in Abu
Ghraib prison, of Iraqi detainees being tortured by grinning
American soldiers.


- June: An interim government is set up. The US authorities
declare that Iraq now enjoys sovereignty.


- August: Iraq's Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr launches a
rebellion against US troops in Najaf. Hundreds of his fighters
are killed before a ceasefire is announced.


- November: More than 10,000 US soldiers backed by 2,000 Iraqi
troops launch a massive assault on the city of Fallujah.


2005


- January: The US administration says it is giving up its search
for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, having found none. The
supposed presence of such weapons had been the main reason given
for invading the country.


Nationwide elections give a large majority to Shiite parties,
while many Sunni Arabs refuse to vote. Kurdish parties make a
strong showing.


- October: A new constitution, approved by referendum, clears the
way for a federal Iraq, which critics see as a recipe for
partition.


Saddam goes on trial for crimes against humanity


- December: Parliamentary elections attract wide participation,
and give victory to a Shiite alliance.


2006


- February: Suspected Sunni extremists destroy a revered Shiite
shrine, prompting a frenzy of sectarian violence between the two
communities.


- June: Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Al-Qaeda's leader in Iraq, is
killed in a US air strike.


- October: A British study concludes that 655,000 civilians have
died since the invasion.


- November: The Bush administration suffers a major setback as
mid-term elections, dominated by the war, deprive it of its
majority in Congress.


Saddam is sentenced to death.


Amid widening civil strife, a single series of attacks kills more
than 200 people in the Baghdad Shiite district of Sadr City.


- December: Saddam is hanged. Videos showing him being taunted by
his Shiite guards are circulated on the Internet, causing fury
among Sunnis around the world.


2007:


- January: The number of US military dead passes the 3,000 mark.


Bush orders around 30,000 more troops into Iraq in a bid to
secure Baghdad, where dozens of corpses are showing up every day.


Two of Saddam's former aides, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti and Awad
Ahmed al- Bandar, are hanged.


- February: Some 80,000 Iraqi and US troops deploy on the steets
of Baghdad as part of a massive security operation designed to
stem raging sectarian violence.


- March: The fourth anniversary of the invasion is greeted by
anti-war protests around the world.


- April: The US military begins construction of a controversial
security barrier around the east Baghdad Sunni enclave of
Adhamiyah.


Despite the continuing security crackdown, insurgents manage to
carry out a suicide bombing in the super-protected parliament
building and kill 140 people in another bombing in a Baghdad
market.


The US Congress adopts a bill linking funding for the war with a
timetable for withdrawal but Bush says he will veto it.

