

A judge handed down life jail terms Monday to five men convicted
of plotting an Al-Qaeda-linked bombing campaign in Britain,
including one with links to the ringleader of the 2005 attacks in
London.


Judge Michael Astill said the men were intent on causing
"indiscriminate death and suffering" as he sentenced them at
London's Central Criminal Court to a minimum of between 35 and 40
years behind bars.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said the
inquiry had saved "many lives" in foiling what the head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism unit, Peter Clarke, described as
"trained, dedicated, ruthless terrorists."


"I have no doubt that there are clear links straight into Al-
Qaeda," Clarke said.


The five were convicted of conspiring to bomb a central London
nightclub and shopping centre, bring down a plane as well as hit
gas and electricity supplies, to commit what Clarke said was
"mass murder" in the process.


One of the five also discussed trying to buy a radioactive "dirty
bomb" from the Russian mafia to be "bigger than 9/11", but
nothing appeared to have come from his enquiries, Britain's
longest-running terrorism trial was told.


But Home Secretary John Reid ruled out calls for a fresh inquiry
into the July 7, 2005 London suicide attacks, despite revelations
that one of the five, Omar Khyam, had links with the presumed
ringleader Mohammed Sidique Khan.


Khyam, 25, met Khan in terrorist training camps in Pakistan and
at least four times in England, while the former was under
surveillance by Britain's domestic intelligence service, MI5, in
the final stages of plotting.


He also boasted of working for Al-Qaeda's number three, Abdul
Hadi.


US authorities announced last Friday that Hadi, also known as
Adbul al-Hadi al- Iraqi, had been captured and taken to the US-
run Guantanamo Bay detention camp for security suspects in Cuba.


Khyam also met another of the bombers, Shehzad Tanweer, but MI5
assessed that Khan and Tanweer were "peripheral" figures.


They and two other bombers went on to kill themselves and 52
others, as well as injure more than 700 people, on London
transport in July 2005.


Khyam's links with Khan and Tanweer was kept from jurors during
the year-long trial, for fear of prejudicing their deliberations.


The British government has previously said there was no warning
before the 2005 attacks in London.


The chairman of the parliamentary Intelligence and Security
Committee, Labour lawmaker Paul Murphy, said they remained
satisfied there were "no culpable failures" by the security
services in relation to intelligence.


In its official report into the 2005 bombings, Murphy's committee
last year said the failure to identify Khan was a "missed
opportunity".


Blair's spokesman said: "We shouldn't jump from the fact that new
evidence has now been made public to the assumption that in some
way '7/7' could have been prevented."


Ruling out a new inquiry, Reid told the lower House of Commons in
parliament that to allow one would divert the police and security
services away from the fight against terrorism.


Seven men were arrested on March 30, 2004 after more than half a
ton of ammonium nitrate fertiliser was discovered in a storage
facility in west London.


Khyam, Anthony Garcia, 25, Jawad Akbar, 23, Waheed Mahmood, 35,
and 32-year-old Salahuddin Amin were all convicted of conspiracy
to cause explosions likely to endanger life.


Two of their co-defendants -- Shujah Mahmood, 20, and 22-year-old
Nabeel Hussain -- were cleared of the same charge.


Khyam and Garcia were found guilty of possessing 600 kilogrammes
of the chemical for terrorist purposes. Hussain, who faced the
same charge, was cleared.


All the men denied the charges.

