

German stock market operator Deutsche Boerse said Monday it
planned to bid 2.8 billion dollars (2.1 billion euros) for the
New York-based International Securities Exchange, the second-
biggest US options market.


The German group, which has failed with previous attempts to buy
the London Stock Exchange and pan-European operator Euronext,
said it would bid 67.50 dollars per share in cash via its
subsidiary Eurex, a joint venture with Swiss partner SWX.


"The supervisory board of Deutsche Boerse, the supervisory board
of SWX and the ISE board of directors shall decide on the
transaction today (Monday)," the Deutsche Boerse said in a
statement.


The German group has previously been unable to conclude a deal to
join the consolidation movement in the industry which is
happening in response to demands from traders for cross-border,
open-all-hours financial markets.


The first transatlantic stock exchange was born earlier this year
when the New York Stock Exchange and Euronext merged their
operations.


ISE is the second-biggest market for options trading in the
United States with 28 percent of the market, behind the Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE) which has 37 percent.


Options are financial instruments that offer a buyer or seller
the right to buy or sell a security -- shares, bonds, currency or
goods -- at an agreed-upon price in the future.


Traders use options to speculate, which is a risky practice,
while companies or investors use options to "hedge" or reduce the
risk of price fluctuations.


Deutsche Boerse shares were suspended on the Frankfurt stock
exchange awaiting an announcement of the outcome of the deal,
while shares in ISE soared 43 percent to 65.29 dollars in late
morning trade in New York.


ISE was formed in 2000 and reported sales of 178 million dollars
in 2006 and a net profit of 55 million dollars.


Analyst Andreas Plaesier at investment bank MM Warburg was
positive about the deal.


"Despite the premium offered, the purchase of ISE is a good-value
operation, particularly if one compares it to other acquisitions
announced recently in the sector," he said.


"With this transaction, Deutsche Boerse also gains a platform
that is very well positioned from a technological point of view."


The acquisition of ISE would also help to plug a gap for the
German operator in the United States.


Deutsche Boerse and SWX own 50 percent each of Eurex, the world's
leading derivatives market, which is to be used to make the bid
for ISE.


But the German and Swiss operators decided to sell the majority
of the US arm of Eurex last year after it failed to impose itself
in the United States.


The US derivatives market is in a state of flux and set for rapid
consolidation because of a takeover battle for control of the
Chicago Board of Trade.


CBOT is a target for the US-based IntercontinentalExchange and
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).

