

A deadly attack by rebels on a Chinese-run oil field in Ethiopia
that left more than 70 dead is the latest example of the human
and political cost of China's growing energy interests in Africa.


Tuesday's attack by rebel gunmen on the facility left 65
Ethiopians dead as well as nine workers from China, making it the
deadliest in a recent spate of killings and kidnappings aimed at
Chinese firms in Africa.


Up to seven Chinese workers were kidnapped in the same dawn
assault on the oil field in Ethiopia's remote eastern Ogaden
region that was run by a branch of Sinopec, one of China's
biggest energy firms.


Rebels from the Ogaden National Liberation Front, who are
fighting for the independence of ethnic Somalis, claimed
responsibility for the attack.


"We urge all international oil companies to refrain from entering
into agreements with the Ethiopian government," the rebels said
in a statement.


China's foreign ministry condemned the attack and called on the
Ethiopian government to ensure the safety of Chinese workers, but
observers said such violence was an inevitable part of Beijing's
rising interests in Africa.


"The incident will force Beijing to rethink its involvement and
security in Africa," US-based global intelligence group Stratfor
said in a report issued immediately after Tuesday's incident.


The attack follows three separate kidnappings involving Chinese
workers in Nigeria this year.


Two Chinese were kidnapped in Nigeria's volatile southern region,
the heart of the oil-rich Niger delta, in March and are still
missing.


Another nine Chinese oil workers were kidnapped in the same area
on January 25 before being freed after 11 days, and five telecom
employees were abducted there earlier in the month and later
released.


In Kenya, a Chinese engineer working on a road building project
was killed in January.


Beijing has been aggressively courting African countries such as
Nigeria, Kenya and Sudan in a drive that critics say has been
motivated only by a desire for natural resources and taken no
regard for human rights abuses and internal conflicts there.


China has vehemently rejected such accusations, with top
political advisor Jia Qinglin saying as recently as Tuesday,
while in Kenya, that his nation was conducting itself in Africa
far better than previous Western colonial powers.


Jia said that 20 percent of Africa's economic growth could be
attributed to trade with China, according to the official Chinese
Xinhua news agency.


"Such cooperation is normal business practice on the basis of
equality and mutual benefit," Jia said. "It is totally different
from the plunder committed by colonialists in Africa."


But critics disagree.


US actress and UNICEF goodwill ambassador Mia Farrow said last
month that next year's Olympic Games in Beijing would be known as
the "Genocide Olympics" because of China's support for Sudan's
government.


Her statement was one of the hardest-hitting in a campaign by
human rights groups over China's backing for the government in
Khartoum, which is accused of allowing genocide in its western
Darfur region.


China is one of Sudan's most important international allies and
buys around 60 percent of the nation's oil exports.


Stratfor warned China of a continued backlash as it increases its
economic, military and diplomatic interests in Africa.


"This surge in activity... has begun to strip Beijing of its
immunity to accusations of imperialism," the report said.


"Complaints have arisen that China is growing too ambitious and
influential in domestic politics and too greedy in stripping
Africa of its natural resources."

