

New Zealand's Stephen Fleming announced his resignation as
captain of his country's one-day team after the 81-run defeat by
Sri Lanka in the World Cup semi-finals here on Tuesday.


But Fleming said he wants to continue playing in the side and
stay in charge of the Test team.


The 34-year-old opening batsman had been in charge for 10 years,
leading his country in 218 one-day internationals, including
three World Cups and two semi- finals, New Zealand losing by nine
wickets to Pakistan in 1999.


"I want to keep playing but I'm standing down as captain of the
one-day side," Fleming, who won 98 and lost 106 one-dayers as
skipper, told reporters.


"I still want to captain the Test side," added Fleming, who
became skipper in the longer format at the same time as taking
over the reins in the one-day team. "I've only just turned 34 and
I think I've still got some good batting years ahead of me."


He added: "I want to concentrate on that for a while but I want
to put a lot of energy into our Test cricket.


"I'd like to keep playing one-day cricket but as a batsman. In
some way your energy levels are sapped when you captain the side.


"I want to play that with a fresh mind and finish off my career
with some stats that I think I'm worth," said Fleming, who
averages just under 33 in 280 one-day internationals with only
eight hundreds.


"Obviously, I'd dreamed the dream of lifting the Cup and saying
'thanks very much' but it's not to be," said Fleming after New
Zealand, yet to reach the World Cup final, had lost their fifth
semi-final in the tournament's nine- edition history.


"It's been mapped out for some time. But from a professional
point of view, it's important we get some fresh ideas.


"I'm very proud of what we've achieved. 218 games as captain is a
long time and, professionally, I think I've done the job well.
Whoever takes over, I want to be around to assist. I've no
problems stepping back."


Asked, who his successor should be, Fleming mentioned experienced
left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori, still only 28, as a possible
candidate.


"The way we've groomed Daniel Vettori for this tournament, he
will certainly come into discussion."


However, with coach John Bracewell's contract now up for review,
Fleming added: "But there's going to be a lot of change within
New Zealand cricket.


"I'm not sure what John's doing, the selectors are doing, so it's
probably a bit presumptuous to recommend Daniel but he's done a
fine job up to this point."


And he said that having separate captains for the Test and one-
day teams would not be a source of tension. "I've thought long
and hard about that. I'm positive it's the right way.


"It gives a guy who takes over the one-day reins a chance to work
on that before taking the Test reins rather than putting him into
the deep end."


Fleming, widely regarded as one of the best tacticians currently
in world cricket, said he's enjoyed the "subtleties" of
captaincy.


"Being able to fend the media off for 10 years is a feather in
the cap," he joked. "But when you work players out, that's what I
get the most joy from."


Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene, whose unbeaten 115 was the
centrepiece of his side's conclusiv victory, said "Stephen's been
a great leader for quite some time now.


"Even when I started he was captaining. You could learn a lot
from him. With the resources he's had, he's built up a very
decent team.


"He's been one of the top captains for the last 10 years."

