

Big-hitting John Daly will be looking to rediscover his touch
when he faces off with Asia's top golf stars at the inaugural
Pine Valley Beijing Open this week.


The California-born Daly, a five-time winner on the US PGA Tour,
made an early arrival here ahead of his challengers after failing
to make the cut at last week's BMW Asian Open in Shanghai.


He has been working hard on his game and hopes it will finally
come together to hand him his second Asian triumph following his
success at the Korean Open in 2003.


"The layout is awesome," he said of the Jack Nicklaus-designed
course.


"It is a course that requires a player to use his driver a lot
more than usual. But as it always is when the wind blows, I will
expect it to be tough.


"I've be working hard since I came here on Saturday. I haven't
been to China in a while and I was still getting adjusted to the
time difference while in Shanghai last week," added Daly, who
will be 41 on Saturday.


The legendary Nicklaus is also in Beijing but will not be
playing. Instead he is hosting golf clinics.


The 500,000 US dollars tournament at the Pine Valley Golf Resort
and Country Club was only added to the Asian Tour calender last
month, acknowledging the growth of professional golf in the
booming nation.


Also playing are Thailand's Thaworn Wiratchant and youngster
Chapchai Nirat, South African Anton Haig, and Australia's Scott
Hend, who has enjoyed back-to- back top-three finishes prior to
Beijing.


"I hope to keep up the good work and be in contention again and
convert this week, hoping to be third time lucky," said Hend, a
former US PGA Tour player.


"John said that he was impressed with the course and if he likes
it, I should too because he hits it longer than average."


China's number one Liang Wen-chong leads the local challenge and
is aiming for a second Asian title after his maiden victory at
the Singapore Masters last month. But he is not happy with his
form.


"My iron play has not been good and my shots have been not very
accurate," he said.


"I am also having difficulty estimating the distance here. I've
played on this course before and I hope to sort my game out in
time. My win was great but now it's time for me to keep pursuing
and aim for consistency."

