

With a blast of cannon fire and the kiss of a dagger, Malaysia's
13th king will be installed Thursday in a ceremony steeped in
traditional Malay customs and pageantry.


Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin, 45, was sworn in to the post in
December but will formally take office at a solemn ceremony which
comes just once every five years.


The stock market will be closed and civil servants get the day
off as the "Yang Di-pertuan Agong," or "He Who Is Made Lord," is
installed at the throne room of the national palace, Istana
Negara, in the capital Kuala Lumpur.


While his position is largely ceremonial, the king commands great
respect from Malaysians, especially the country's majority
Malays.


The ceremony will closely follow customs set out in previous
coronations, said Minister for Culture, Arts and Heritage, Rais
Yatim.


"This is really traditional," Rais told AFP.


Malaysia has had an elected monarchy since independence from
Britain in 1957. In a unique arrangement the monarch is chosen
by, and rotates among, the rulers of the nine Malaysian states
still headed by royalty. Four other states are not headed by
monarchs.


Mizan, the country's second-youngest king ever, is sultan of
eastern Terengganu state, which is sending a royal court
orchestra to play traditional "sacred, haunting" music during the
ceremony, state Bernama news agency said.


The ensemble will strike up as the king and his queen, Nur
Zahirah, enter the hall and are seated on the thrones.


According to the prime minister's office, Mizan will be dressed
in a black ceremonial robe embroidered in gold, and with its
roots in the Middle East.   He will also wear long embroidered
trousers and a royal head-dress whose origins date back
centuries.


In the presence of the country's other sultans and government
ministers, Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi will proclaim
Mizan the 13th king.


Mizan will then be presented with the "kris panjang diraja", or
the royal long dagger, which the king will ceremoniously draw and
kiss. With its hilt and sheath covered in gold, the elaborately-
engraved kris is a symbol of power and authority.


The king's pledge to perform his duties and protect Islam, the
official religion of Malaysia, will be received with cries of
"Daulat Tuanku," or "Long live the King."


Twenty-one rounds of cannon fire will sound.


Official documents and invitations for the ceremony are written
in the traditional Jawi script and prepared by Yayasan Restu, a
foundation that specialises in Jawi calligraphy, Bernama
reported.


Abdul Baki Abu Bakar, a calligrapher with the foundation, said
four ceremonial documents would be written on goat skin
parchments.


"Extra care is needed when writing on the parchment because of
its smooth oily texture," Bernama quoted Abdul Baki as saying.


"And we use the best waterproof black ink from Japan."


Another calligrapher, Mohammed Fadil, said each invitation letter
took four hours to write by hand. The paper is made of cotton and
pulp and could last for 500 years, Bernama quoted him as saying.


Mizan, a father of four, was the youngest Malay ruler when he
ascended the Terengganu throne at the age of 36.


Educated in Malaysia and Australia, Mizan later received training
at the British military academy at Sandhurst.


He is a keen sportsman with a passion for horse riding.


Malaysia's king signs bills of law and appoints ministers, judges
and ambassadors on the advice of cabinet.


But real power lies with the prime minister. Former prime
minister Mahathir Mohamad stripped kings of their veto over
government bills in 1983.


Malaysia's royal lineage can be traced back to Malay sultanates
from the 15th century.

