

Two suicide truck bombers and a gang of gunmen assaulted and
partially demolished a US outpost in Iraq, the military said
Wednesday, revealing details of an attack that killed nine
troops.


Monday's attack on the Al-Sadah base in Diyala Province, north of
Baghdad, was the deadliest on US ground forces in Iraq for 16
months, and has been claimed by the Al-Qaeda militant group in an
Internet statement.


"The enemy attack consisted of small arms fire, followed by the
detonation of two explosive-laden trucks, one of which detonated
along an outer barrier" of the base, a US statement said
Wednesday


The second truck detonated approximately 30 metres (yards) from
the patrol base building. Neither vehicle penetrated the patrol
base's inner perimeter.


"The explosive blast from the second truck ruptured the wall of
the patrol base building, collapsing the second floor and,
causing the majority of the soldier casualties," the statement
said.


Twenty soldiers from the 5th Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, 3rd
Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, were wounded in the
attack, although 15 of them were able to return to service after
treatment.


A nearby house and several smaller structures also collapsed
under the impact and a civilian hospital and local mosque located
approximately 200 meters from the patrol base were also damaged,
the statement said.


"This attack is a direct response to our aggressive and
persistent operations to target the enemy in Diyala," said
Colonel David Sutherland, US military commander in Diyala.


"We will remain disciplined and resolute as we continue to target
the terrorists who bring nothing but hatred and violence to those
that depend on us," he added, according to the statement.


In the past it has been rare for insurgent groups to mount large-
scale assaults on well-fortified and defended American positions.


Now, however, US forces have adopted a more ambitious strategy to
take control of areas by building smaller and more vulnerable
outposts inside flashpoint areas.


The attack on Monday was the bloodiest assault on US troops on
the ground since December 1, 2005 when 10 US marines were killed
and 11 wounded by a roadside bomb outside Fallujah in western
Iraq.


Diyala province has emerged as one of the fiercest battlegrounds
in Iraq, the new focus of Sunni Al-Qaeda fighters who were pushed
out of western Iraq and Baghdad by large-scale US and Iraqi
security operations.


The US military has sent reinforcements to the area as part of a
strategy to pacify the violent belt around Baghdad which houses
insurgent rear bases and car-bomb factories used to prepare
attacks on Iraqi civilians.

