

Werder Bremen's Champions League elimination by Barcelona could
be met by a measure of revenge on Thursday when they face Barca's
city rivals Espanyol in a UEFA Cup semi-final first leg clash.


The German side are the only non-Spanish team in the last four -
holders Sevilla take on Osasuna in the other semi - but are in
prime form as their 3-1 win in the league last Friday kept them
within two points of leaders Schalke 04.


Werder's outstanding German international midfielder Torsten
Frings believes that the 1992 Cup Winners Cup winners are capable
of beating anyone, and certainly the manner in which they
demolished Dutch league leaders AZ Alkmaar in the quarter-finals
lends his theory credence.


"We can beat any club in Europe," Frings told uefa.com.


"We can win this tournament," the 30-year-old added with typical
German candour.


Bremen could be boosted by the return of defender Christian
Schulz, who has recovered from a thigh injury but will be without
long-time injury absentee, Cameroon international Pierre Wome.


Also facing watching from the sidelines could be Tim Borowski,
who was outstanding on his return to the side in the second leg
against Alkmaar, and Per Mertesacker.


However while Frings, who was much missed by Germany in their
World Cup semi- final against Italy last year because he was
suspended after a fracas at the end of their quarter-final with
Argentina, is confident the club's sporting director Klaus Allofs
was taking a more circumspect tone.


"I think Espanyol will be tougher than Celta Vigo," said the
former German international striker, referring to the Spanish
side they eliminated from the round of 16.


Certainly Espanyol, finalists in 1988 when they were beaten by
Bayer Leverkusen, have caused a storm in the UEFA Cup this season
being the leading scorers in the competition - striking home 27
goals - with Walter Pandiani the individual leading scorer with
10 goals.


Bremen have their own ace marksman in Miroslav Klose and the
Polish-born German international showed a return to form in the
second leg win over Alkmaar when he scored twice to end a long
running goal drought.


Allied to the silky playmaking skills of 22-year-old Brazilian
playmaker Diego - who scored against Alkmaar and surpassed that
with a 60 metres effort against Alemannia Aachen last Friday -
Bremen travel to Barcelona in justifiably confident mood.


Sevilla's bid to become only the second side to retain the trophy
- Real Madrid are the only side to have accomplished that back in
1985 and 1986 - sees them travel to the tournament's surprise
packages Osasuna.


Osasuna have behaved rather like the world famous Bull run that
occurs in their base of Pamplona every year as they have ridden
rough shod over all their opponents this year, no more so than
when they stunned Leverkusen in the quarter-finals doing the hard
bit by beating them 3-0 in Germany in the first leg.


Osasuna's veteran Serbian international striker, Savo Milosevic,
is sure they can pull off another shock against a Sevilla side -
who they beat twice last year 1-0 to edge into fourth place in
the final standings ahead of them - that is also challenging for
the domestic title.


"I think we surprised all of Europe with our result in
Leverkusen," the 33-year- old told Uefa.com.


"I still have the impression we are being underestimated even
after we saw through the victory.


"We never relaxed, we managed the game and to win 4-0 over two
matches against any German opposition, let alone one with the
European history of Leverkusen, is an impressive state of intent.


"Once you get a taste for something like this, you want more. We
want to go to Hampden (where the final takes place)."


Fixtures


Osasuna (ESP) v Sevilla (ESP)


Espanyol (ESP) v Werder Bremen (GER)


2nd legs May 3.

