

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene led his side into the World
Cup final with a maiden tournament hundred as the 1996 champions
beat New Zealand by 81 runs at Sabina Park on Tuesday.


Jayawardene's 115 not out was the centrepiece of an imposing
total of 289 for five and showed the value of a well-paced
innings after he'd taken 48 balls to score his first boundary.


Dropped on 70, in all he faced 109 balls with three sixes and 10
fours in his first century in 23 World Cup matches.


In reply, Sri Lanka bowled out the Black Caps for 208 with more
than eight overs to spare, off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan
taking four for 31, including a spell of three wickets in six
balls.


Sri Lanka, through to their second final, will now play the
winners of Wednesday's match in St Lucia between holders
Australia and South Africa in Saturday's climax in Barbados.


This defeat meant New Zealand had lost all five of their World
Cup semi-finals.


Jayawardene, who'd won the toss under blue skies, saw Sri Lanka
take the field in overcast conditions.


Lasith Malinga, having missed three games with an ankle injury,
needed just three balls to take a wicket, the slingshot fast
bowler having New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming lbw for one.


It was surprising when he was taken off by Jayawardene after a
superbly accurate opening spell of one wicket for five runs in
four overs.


Left-arm quick Chaminda Vaas made it 32 for two in the 11th over
when Ross Taylor tried to hit across the line and was lbw for
nine.


Scott Styris, fifth in the list of tournament run-scorers,
counter-attacked by driving Dilhara Fernando and Muralitharan for
sixes.


After two overs for 14 runs, Murali was replaced by fellow
spinner Tillakaratne Dilshan.


It took just five balls for Dilshan to strike, Styris on 37
chipping to Jayawardene at mid-wicket who gleefully held a catch
above his head.


That was the start of a collapse that saw Sri Lanka's spinners
taking five wickets for 11 runs in 23 balls to all but seal
victory as New Zealand slumped to 116 for seven.


Murali held a brilliant lunging one-handed catch to dismiss all-
rounder Jacob Oram off his own bowling.


Next ball Brendon McCullum's top-edged sweep was athletically
caught by a diving Chamara Silva, running round from square leg
to leave Murali on a hat-trick at the start of his next over.


But before then opener Peter Fulton, who top-scored with 46,
chipped left-arm spinner Sanath Jayasuriya, one of three
survivors along with Vaas and Murali from the 1996 team, to Silva
at mid-on.


Daniel Vettori survived the hat-trick but was then plumb lbw to
Murali's 'doosra' for nought.


And not even a few hard hits from Craig McMillan, batting at
seven and with a runner after being off the field with a stomach
muscle injury, were going to change the outcome.


A last wicket stand of 59 delayed proceedings before Jeetan Patel
(34) was last man out, holing out off Dilshan.


Earlier, Sri Lanka opener Upul Tharanga struck a tournament best
73 as his team recovered well after Jayasuriya fell for one.


Crucially, Sri Lanka lost just one wicket to strike bowler Shane
Bond, returning after missing Friday's 215-run thrashing by
Australia with a stomach illness.


The quick conceded 59 runs and he dropped Jayawardene, who led a
charge that saw 102 runs scored off the last 10 overs.


At the halfway stage, Sri Lanka had been well-placed for a big
total at 111 for three.


But next ball they lost Tharanga when the left-hander was bowled
sweeping by Vettori for a 73 made off 74 balls with one six and
nine fours.


Jayawardene subsequently drove Oram, fit again after a heel
injury, over his head for six.


His sweep against off-spinner Patel was dropped by Bond on the
deep backward square leg boundary, the ball bouncing out of the
fieldsman's hands before hitting the rope for a six.


Jayawardene went to his hundred, off 104 balls, with a superb
late cut boundary against Oram before pulling Bond for six as the
bowler's last over went for 17.

