

The ancient teachings of Confucius, centring on peace and social
harmony, are finding a new resonance amid the chaos and rapid
development of modern China.


Once suppressed by Maoist China, the Confucian revival is being
welcomed by the communist government as a calming influence amid
growing public dissatisfaction over a host of issues.


"The teachings of Confucius are the first thing we begin teaching
the children," said Feng Zhe, director of the Confucian School,
which opened six months ago.


"Each child should recite the Confucian texts 1,000 times until
their spirit is imprinted completely. This is a graduation
requirement."


China's education ministry gave permission for the school to open
in a villa in the Beijing suburbs, and Feng sees it as the tip of
a future iceberg.


So far 46 students below the age of 14 have enrolled in the
school which is based on learning through recitation.


"The concept of scientific development and the idea of a
harmonious society advocated by the government today comes from
ancient Chinese culture," Feng said with a smile from behind his
round scholarly glasses.


"We hope that our students will become China's cultural
ambassadors in the world."


Feng predicts that there will be more than 10,000 similar schools
throughout China within the next 10 years as the nation wakes up
to its traditional heritage.


The school hopes to combine the best of traditional China with
the great classics of the world and is aiming to train "human
beings who know their own culture as well as the advanced culture
of the West," said Tao Ye, another school official.


In 1973, revolutionary leader Mao Zedong kicked off a campaign to
"criticise Lin Biao and Confucius," which targeted Mao's former
right-hand man who was accused of an attempted coup, and
Confucian teachings which he blamed for the backwardness and
subservience of Chinese society.


Thirty years later, the ruling Communist Party is embracing
Confucius in official slogans.


In the "eight vices and eight virtues" of President Hu Jintao
issued last year, Chinese are told to love their motherland,
serve the people and work hard -- all typical Confucian notions.


Far from discouraging this return to Confucianism the government
is promoting it amid growing public dissatisfaction with rampant
corruption and unbridled development, evident in more than 87,000
public protests recorded in 2005.


For the young students here, learning the 2,500-year-old
teachings of Confucius, advocating subservience to authority
through filial piety, is key to becoming a better person.


"If we study at a regular school and learn Chinese and math, that
is useful but not as useful as this," said Liu Zhenran, a 10
-year-old student.


"Here we learn to be a good person thanks to Confucius. This is
more useful for us in the future."


Although the school is mainly geared for a privileged class
capable of paying an annual tuition of 30,000 yuan (3,900
dollars), Confucian studies have also reemerged in Chinese
society thanks to television and books.


One of China's bestsellers in the past months is "Confucius, As I
See Him," the paperback version of a televised lecture series by
Yu Dan, a professor at Beijing Normal University.


"The people who listen to my lectures and read my books are
serious about their quality of life and want to find the answer
of what being Chinese really is," said 42-year old Yu, who
considers herself an incurable optimist.


Her point of departure in her lectures is simple -- "how to apply
Confucian teachings to the modern world".


She also tells her readers that they must seek individual
happiness if they hope to live in harmony with society.


Confucius, she argues, would disapprove of disorderly behaviour
like jay walking, spitting or littering, all of which the
government is trying to stamp out, pinning such social
engineering campaigns on the 2008 Olympics.

