

Turkish newspapers were Wednesday questioning whether Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, the ruling party's pick for the
presidency, is truly loyal to the country's strict secular order
amid concerns of a growing Islamist threat.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday named Gul, 56, as
the Justice and Development Party's (AKP) candidate for
presidential elections, following harsh objections to his own
purported presidential ambitions.


Many here opposed the idea of Erdogan, a conservative with an
Islamist past, becoming president as a move that would undermine
the secular foundations of the state.


Several commentators Wednesday pointed out that Gul comes from
the same background and served side by side with Erdogan in a
banned Islamist party ousted from power by the influential army
for increasingly religious policies.


Erdogan's and Gul's wives both wear the Islamic-style headscarf,
which is largely seen as a sign of political Islam.


"Erdogan and Gul are no different than identical twins," the
mass-circulation Hurriyet said. "Despite all the objections, the
headscarf is entering the presidential palace."


The liberal Radikal said Gul was not the right choice to ease
concerns among secularists over growing Islamist influence in
Turkey.


"If Gul becomes president, the people who view the AKP with
suspicion will become increasingly alarmed that they are being
surrounded," it said. "A name less identified with the AKP would
have prevented such a development."


It expressed concern that with the AKP holding the three top
civilian posts in the country -- the presidency, the parliament
speaker's office and the prime ministry -- the government would
have more sway in implementing its own policies and appointing
party cronies to top posts.


"That would fan concerns that secularism is under threat,"
Radikal said.


The left-leaning Cumhuriyet recalled that Gul's wife, Hayrunisa,
had filed a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights for
being denied the right to enroll in university because of her
headscarf, but withdrew it after her husband became a minister in
2002.


"The candidate in a row with the state," it said on its front-
page.


Many commentators nonetheless gave points to Gul for his
moderate, conciliatory political style compared to the more
aggressive, confrontational Erdogan.


"The only difference between Gul and Erdogan is that the former
is more prone to conciliatory politics," Huriiyet wrote. "If he
manages to keep that quality intact during his tenure as
president, Turkey will be able to go though this difficult period
more easily."


The popular Vatan cautiously welcomed Gul, saying he had affirmed
his commitment to the basic tenets of the republic.


"We will support him as long as he remains impartial and stays
true to the secular republic," it wrote.


Gul is virtually certain to become president thanks to the
comfortable, 353-seat majority the AKP holds in the 550-member
parliament, which will elect the president for a single seven-
year term.


The vote, which can go up to four rounds, begins Friday.

