

US forces have killed an Al-Qaeda kingpin they allege sent 12
-year-old Iraqi boys to their deaths as suicide car bombers, they
said Wednesday, amid an intense battle with insurgents around
Baghdad.


With a large-scale security operation underway within the Iraqi
capital, US and local forces are fanning out into a violent belt
of small towns around the city in a bid to track down insurgent
car bomb factories.


The urgency of the mission was underlined on Monday, when two
suicide truck bombers and a gang of gunmen assaulted and
partially demolished a US outpost northeast of the capital,
killing nine soldiers and wounding 20 more.


Meanwhile, car bombers strike civilians daily in the capital,
undermining the security effort, and over the past two days have
mounted three suicide attacks in the western city of Ramadi,
killing a total of 16 people.


US command said it had identified a suspect killed northwest of
Baghdad on April 20 as Muhammad Abdullah Abbas al-Issawi, also
known as Abu Akram and Abu Abd al- Sattar, the Al-Qaeda "security
emir" in eastern Anbar province.


"Coalition forces were conducting operations targeting associates
of a known senior leader within Al-Qaeda in Iraq," the statement
said.


"During the operation the terrorists engaged ground forces with
small arms fire. Coalition forces used appropriate self-defence
measures and engaged the armed men, killing two and detaining
one," it said.


According to the statement, suicide bomb vests were found at the
scene and "intelligence reports also indicate that his VBIED (car
bomb) cell used 12- to 13-year-old children as VBIED drivers."


The statement also alleged that the dead suspect was an associate
of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the former leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq
who was killed last June in a US air strike.


Monday's attack on the US base in Al-Sadah in Diyala Province,
north of Baghdad, was the deadliest on US ground forces in Iraq
for 16 months, and has been claimed by Al-Qaeda in an Internet
statement.


On Wednesday, the military released previously unpublished
details revealing the ferocity of the assault.


"The enemy attack consisted of small arms fire, followed by the
detonation of two explosive-laden trucks, one of which detonated
along an outer barrier" of the base, a statement said.


The second truck detonated approximately 30 metres (yards) from
the patrol base building. Neither vehicle penetrated the patrol
base's inner perimeter.


"The explosive blast from the second truck ruptured the wall of
the patrol base building, collapsing the second floor and,
causing the majority of the soldier casualties," the statement
said.


Twenty soldiers from the 5th Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, 3rd
Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, were wounded in the
attack, although 15 of them were able to return to service after
treatment.


A nearby house and several smaller structures also collapsed
under the impact and a civilian hospital and local mosque located
approximately 200 metres from the patrol base were also damaged,
the statement said.


"This attack is a direct response to our aggressive and
persistent operations to target the enemy in Diyala," said
Colonel David Sutherland, US military commander in Diyala.


In the past it has been rare for insurgent groups to mount large-
scale assaults on well-fortified and defended American positions.


Now, however, US forces have adopted a more ambitious strategy to
take control of areas by building smaller and more vulnerable
outposts inside flashpoint areas.


The attack on Monday was the bloodiest assault on US troops on
the ground since December 1, 2005 when 10 US marines were killed
and 11 wounded by a roadside bomb outside Fallujah in western
Iraq.


Diyala province has emerged as one of the fiercest battlegrounds
in Iraq, the new focus of Sunni Al-Qaeda fighters who were pushed
out of western Iraq and Baghdad by the US and Iraqi security
operation.

