

Former New Zealand captain Martin Crowe on Wednesday branded the
national side underperformers after they crashed out of the World
Cup at Kingston.


Crowe, one of New Zealand's most successful batsmen, said he
agreed with Stephen Fleming's decision to step down as one-day
skipper, and said coach John Bracewell should follow suit after
the 81-run semi-final loss to Sri Lanka.


"You need to move on to fresh ideas because the game is moving on
very quickly," Crowe told Radio Sport.


Even though New Zealand reached the play-offs -- as did the side
Crowe led to the 1992 World Cup -- there was a vast difference
between the performance of the two sides.


Crowe's side were knocked out by Pakistan in a game which went to
the wire, while the class of 2007 were soundly beaten.


"I didn't feel there were a lot of players in form," Crowe said.


"Coming off that Australian debacle (a record 215-run loss last
week), I felt we were going to have to be very lucky."


Crowe said he was disappointed that the New Zealand players
didn't seem to be hard-hit by the nature of that defeat, as they
all spoke of how it hadn't knocked their confidence.


"They fall into doing the same PR speak and putting a positive
spin on things," he said.


"But the Australian game was diabolical and that was such a
crucial match."


He believed the buildup to the Australia clash was where New
Zealand's campaign began to unravel, with bowling spearhead Shane
Bond missing the game because he fell sick the night before.


"What are you doing eating a dodgy fish curry that's going to
take you out of the game the next day?" he said.


"They needed Bond there, they needed Jacob Oram there. I don't
care about (Oram's) bruised heel -- when you've got seven or
eight days to play, you get out there and play what are going to
be the three most important games of your career.


"They didn't front up, they backed out and they just said 'we had
our eye on the Sri Lankan game'.


"Well they didn't have their eye on that because as we've seen
today, they just didn't perform as well as this well-groomed Sri
Lankan side."

