

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas will on Thursday inaugurate an
exhibition of archaeological relics from the Gaza Strip that
underlines the area's rich historical heritage, the Swiss
organisers said.


Marc-Antoine Haldimann, curator at Geneva's Art and History
Museum, said the exhibition demonstrated that "Gaza is not a
black hole stuck in between the historical wealth of Egypt and
that of Israel."


The exhibition "Gaza, the crossroads of civilisation" assembles
some 530 artefacts -- "an unexpected patrimony" according to
Haldimann -- and is thought to be the first on this scale.


The objects, including 5,500-year-old jugs, Egyptian albaster
vases and Byzantine mosaics are on loan from the Palestinian
Authority's antiquities department and a private Palestinian
collector.


The initiative by the Swiss museum, the Palestinian Authority and
the French biblical and archaeological museum in Jerusalem is
part of an effort to set up a museum in Gaza under the auspices
of UNESCO, the United Nations educational scientific and cultural
organisation.


Haldimann said an archaeological museum on the site of the
ancient port would provide Gazans with a tool to bring them up to
cultural speed compared to their more prestigious neighbours.


Like many areas around the Mediterranean Basin, the 362 square
kilometre (140 square mile) strip of land was a crossroads for
civilisations and successive occupiers or conquerors through the
ages.


The first ruins discovered there date back to 3,000 BC, when
communities from ancient Egypt settled in Gaza. Philistines
invaded Gaza in 1,200 BC.


Successively, the area came under the thrall of Babylonians,
ancient Greeks, the Hasmonean dynasty, the Roman Empire and many
others up to Napoleon at the end of the 18th century, followed by
the Ottoman Empire, British rule and most recently Israel.


Haldimann said he hoped the exhibition would offer a "peaceable
look" allowing visitors to "decypher all the civilisations."


However, artefacts from ancient Jewish civilisations -- like the
Hasmoneans -- that were present in Gaza will not be on show in
Geneva.


"All the Jewish objects are in Israeli museums," Haldimann
explained.


Geneva City Council, which runs the museum, was aiming to
assemble all sides in the historical exhibition. Israeli
archaeologists were contacted but the Palestinians preferred to
do without them, Haldimann said.


The Palestinian Authority and Israel are at odds over about
32,000 historical objects, which the Palestinians want the
Israelis to return.


Abbas will be accompanied by Palestinian tourism minister Khuloud
Daibes and foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr at the inauguration
ceremony on Thursday.


Abbas is also due to meet Swiss Foreign Minister and President
Micheline Calmy- Rey during his visit.

