

Several international clothing manufacturers have demanded
Cambodia investigate the recent murder of a top labour leader,
saying swift justice was key to their continued presence in the
country's key garment sector.


"We are quite concerned about what appears to be a pattern of
violence against union leaders in the country," said a letter
received Wednesday from labels Eddie Bauer, Gap, H&M Hennes
and Mauritz, Liz Claiborne and Phillips-Van Heusen.


The manufacturers were reacting to the February assassination of
union boss Hu Vuthy, who was the third top labour leader killed
since 2004 amid an escalation of attacks against workers' rights
advocates.


"The recent death of Hu Vuthy has been brought to our attention.
... It is of upmost importance to us as buyers that rule of law
be swift, just and transparent," said the letter, which was
addressed to Prime Minister Hun Sen and other senior government
officials.


"This ... ensures a stable business environment for us to
continue to source our products," it added.


Cambodia's garment sector, which accounts for some 80 percent of
the impoverished country's export earnings, has been plagued by
increasing clashes between factory management and labour unions.


"For the past three years the situation in Cambodia has been at
its worst," said a separate letter from the Cambodian
Confederation of Unions (CCU) to International Labour
Organisation director Juan Somavia.


The letter went on to call for an international committee to be
formed to investigate the deaths of Hu Vuthy and labour organiser
Ros Sovannareth, as well as the 2004 killing of Chea Vichea, who
was president of Cambodia's largest union.


Cambodia's Appeals Court earlier this month upheld prison
sentences for two men convicted of gunning down Chea Vichea,
despite admissions by prosecutors that their politically-charged
case was flawed.


"The Cambodian authorities don't intend to look for the real
killers ... because the murder of Chea Vichea is connected to the
high-ranking officers in the government," the CCU said.


Cambodia's garment exports jumped 17 percent to 2.5 billion
dollars in 2006, but manufacturers warn continuing labour
disputes could scare investors away.


Manufacturers have warned of an industry collapse at the end of
2007, when safeguards against China are lifted, depriving
Cambodia of exclusive access to foreign markets.

