

Egyptian officials are set to meet early on Wednesday members of
Palestinian armed factions in Gaza in a bid to restore a five-
month truce with Israel that Hamas declared over, officials said.


The Egyptian security delegation in the Palestinian territories,
headed by General Bourhan Hamad, will meet representatives of all
Palestinian factions, Egyptian officials said.


That includes the Islamic Jihad, which has refused to abide by
the November 26 truce with Israel, Palestinian and Egyptian
officials said.


The meeting, which was originally planned for later Wednesday,
was moved forward because "the situation was so volatile,"
officials said.


The armed wing of the Hamas movement on Tuesday declared the
truce over after claiming to have fired scores of rockets into
the Jewish state on Israel's Independence Day.


But although Hamas said it was abandoning truce after Israeli
raids killed nine Palestinians at the weekend, a spokesman
emphasised that the Palestinian government was standing by the
truce for now.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was planned to hold a security
meeting with ministers and heads of the security establishement
Wednesday to "discuss Israel's reaction to the Hamas attack," a
senior government official told AFP.


For his part, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said in Rome
that "today's rupture was an exceptional event that won't last."


Hamas called the truce in November because "you can't negotiate
under the noise of bombs," he said at a press conference with
Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


Both the European Union and the United States on Tuesday called
on the sides not to abandon the ceasefire.


The US State Department warned Palestinians not to abandon the
ceasefire, saying the "pathway to Palestine" and an independent
state lies through negotiations, not violence.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana echoed the warning saying
the decision by Hamas's armed wing was "very bad news".


"I plead with everybody on both sides to really behave in a
constructive manner because there is a window of opportunity in
which things that are positive may take place."

