

Ethiopia on Wednesday accused arch-foe Eritrea of supporting the
rebels behind an attack on a remote Chinese-run oil field that
killed 74 people, including nine Chinese workers.


Eritrea immediately denied the claim -- the latest in a string of
accusations and counter-accusations between the rival neighbours.


"The perpetrator of the terrorist attack ... is the self-styled
Ogaden National Liberation Front, a terrorist wing which is part
of the front of destruction led by the Eritrean government," the
Ethiopian Information Ministry said in a statement.


Up to seven Chinese workers were kidnapped in Tuesday's dawn raid
on the oil field in Ethiopia's eastern Ogaden region, where the
rebel group is fighting for the independence of ethnic Somalis.


"Hand-in-glove with the Eritrean Government, which hates to see
Ethiopia's development, the terrorist forces in the region have
acted out this horrendous act of terror," the statement said.


Eritrea rejected the accusations, claiming Addis Ababa was
seeking to trigger a war.


"The accusations are baseless," Eritrean Information Minister Ali
Abdu said. "They want to create a pretext to take belligerent
measures against Eritrea."


Ali said the ONLF was the result of a "failed Ethiopian racial
policy" that had splintered Ethiopia into more than 30 rival
ethnic groups.


"It is becoming clear that these kind of statements are intended
to divert attention from Ethiopia's own domestic crisis," he told
AFP.


Addis Ababa often accuses Eritrea of backing Ethiopian separatist
groups that have carried out a series of bombs attacks in Addis
Ababa in recent years, and of attacking civilian positions in
southern and eastern Ethiopia.


The two nations, still at odds over an unresolved border dispute,
fought a bloody 1998-2000 over the precise demarcation of their
frontier.


Ethiopia said Wednesday that it would send an investigation team
to the Ogaden oil field, a government spokesman told AFP.


"Officials of the government are going there today, along with
defense officials to assess the situation," said Berekat Simon,
spokesman for Prime Minster Meles Zenawi.


"The government is committed to pursuing the perpetrators to
bring them to justice," he added, making no comment about the
abducted Chinese workers.


The ONLF said in an email to AFP on Tuesday that it was holding
six Chinese workers and that they were being treated well.
Chinese and Ethiopian officials had said seven Chinese were being
held.


It claimed responsibility for Tuesday's attack in a statement on
its website in which it said it had completely destroyed the oil
facility.


The raid was the first on an Ethiopian oil field since the ONLF
issued a threat to foreign companies operating in the eastern
region one year ago.


The separatist group, formed in 1984, says that the Ogaden people
have been marginalised and brutalised by Ethiopia.

