

Latvia will be ready to enter the eurozone if an ambitious
government plan to curb inflation works, but not before 2011,
President Vaira Vike-Freiberga said Tuesday.


"As you are aware, Latvia has been experiencing extremely rapid
economic growth. Last year, Latvia's GDP growth rate reached
almost 12 percent, which was the highest in the European Union
and among the highest in the world," Vike- Freiberga told a forum
of Latvian and Belgian businessmen.


"This rapid growth has been accompanied by inflation...," she
said.


Inflation surged in the first quarter of 2007, running at 7.1
percent annually in January, 7.3 percent in February and hitting
8.5 percent in March.


"Last month the government of Latvia put forth a plan to reduce
inflation and I sincerely hope that this plan will be successful,
so that Latvia can join the Economic and Monetary Union soon
after 2010," Vike-Freiberga said.


"If we discount inflation, Latvia is in full compliance with the
Maastricht convergence criteria necessary for adopting the euro."


The Latvian government unveiled an ambitious plan in March for
cutting inflation to 2.0-3.0 percent by 2010-11.


The package proposes placing restrictions on the issuance of
personal loans and mortgages to curb consumer spending, taxing
some property deals, and limiting public sector salary increases.


The plan got a lukewarm response from the ratings agencies, which
said tighter fiscal policy and effective anti-inflation measures
were needed to prevent a hard landing and overheating of the
economy.


Latvia had planned to adopt the euro next year, but officials
dropped the idea because of high inflation. A new date for moving
over to the single currency has not been set.


The country's Baltic neighbours, Estonia and Lithuania, which
also have  buoyant economies, planned to join the eurozone at the
start of this year.


Lithuania's bid was refused by the European Commission, because
inflation was a whisker outside the EU-set criteria, and Estonia
withdrew its bid because of high inflation.

