

Israel was Wednesday weighing its response a day after Hamas
militants fired their first barrage of rockets into the Jewish
state for five months and declared an end to a November truce.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert convened emergency talks with defence
officials at his Jerusalem office to discuss Israel's reaction to
an attack that caused no casualties or damage amid growing calls
for tough military action.


Defence Minister Amir Peretz and the army's top brass were
attending the talks "to discuss Israel's reaction to the Hamas
attack," a senior official told AFP.


"We feel today free to do things that we avoided doing several
months ago. Anyone who wants to try us, will get what he
deserves," Deputy Defence Minister Ephraim Sneh told public
radio.


"We are not interested in escalation. We want to do whatever is
necessary to lower the level of terror" in the Gaza Strip.


Israel has declared several times in recent months that it would
not allow Hamas and other armed factions to strengthen in the
Gaza Strip, as intelligence sources warned that militants were
using the calm to stockpile arms.


Parallel talks were also scheduled to take place between Egyptian
officials and Palestinian armed factions in a bid to shore-up the
five-month truce that saw Israeli troops leave Gaza and militants
vow to hold rocket fire.


An Egyptian security delegation, which is based permanently in
the Gaza Strip and headed by General Bourhan Hamad, was to meet
representatives of all the Palestinian factions, following
initial talks overnight.


Egyptian and Palestinian officials said the ultra-radical Islamic
Jihad, which refused to abide by the November 26 truce with
Israel and has claimed the bulk of recent anti-Israeli attacks,
was also taking part in the meetings.


On Tuesday, the armed wing of Hamas, whose political branch is
the senior partner in the Palestinian coalition government,
claimed it fired nearly 100 projectiles into Israel as the
country marked its 59th Independence Day.


The Islamic group said it was abandoning the truce following
Israeli raids that killed nine Palestinians at the weekend,
although the Palestinian government later emphasised that it was
standing by the ceasefire.


Although the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades said it fired nearly 30
rockets and 61 mortar rounds, the Israeli army identified only
two rocket and eight mortar shell impacts, none of which caused
any damage.


Tuesday marked the first time Hamas claimed responsibility for
rocket attacks since the truce took effect.


An army spokesman said another two rockets were launched
overnight and early Wednesday, without any impacts inside Israel.


Israeli security sources said they suspected Tuesday's barrage
could have been intended as a diversionary tactic aimed at
capturing Israeli soldiers, as on June 25 when a conscripted
corporal was seized in a cross-border raid.


"The truce no longer exists," Abu Obaida, a spokesman for Hamas's
armed Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades told AFP on Tuesday. "It's the
Israeli enemy that has not respected it and now it's the turn of
Palestinian groups."


A spokesman for prime minister Ismail Haniya from Hamas, said the
government "remains bound to the truce to preserve the interests
of the Palestinian people and to protect them from the crimes and
aggressions of the enemy.


"The government warns against any collapse in the truce if
occupation forces continue their aggression," Ghazi Hamad added
in a statement.


In Rome on a foreign tour aimed at shoring up support for the
beleagured Palestinian government, president Mahmud Abbas said
Tuesday's "rupture was an exceptional event that won't last."


The US State Department and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
have also warned the Palestinians not to abandon the ceasefire.

