

The Buffalo Sabres, denied a Stanley Cup finals berth last
season, resume their quest to make up for that disappointment as
the National Hockey League playoffs continue on Wednesday.


The top-seeded Sabres host the sixth-seeded New York Rangers in
the opener of their Eastern Conference second-round series on
Wednesday, while the second- seeded Anaheim Ducks face the third-
seeded Vancouver Canucks in game one of their Western Conference
series.


The Canucks must come back just two days after beating the Dallas
Stars 4-1 in Game Seven of their first-round series.


On Thursday, the top-seeded Detroit Red Wings open their Western
Conference semi-final series against the fifth-seeded San Jose
Sharks, and the second- seeded New Jersey Devils face the fourth-
seeded Ottawa Senators in the East.


The Sabres, who captured the Presidents' Trophy for the first
time in franchise history, won four of their meetings with the
Rangers this season, but all of them came before December 2 and
three of them went to overtime.


Last year, the Sabres came within one win of reaching the Stanley
Cup Finals, a victory that arguably would have come had their top
defenseman - Jay McKee - not missed Game Seven of the conference
finals against the Carolina Hurricanes with an injury.


This season, Buffalo was an offensive force, leading the league
with 308 goals and earning home-ice advantage throughout the
playoffs with 113 points.


Seven players reached the 20-goal plateau, with another - Jochen
Hecht - falling one tally shy.


Buffalo beat the eighth-seeded New York Islanders, four games to
one, in the first round.


Following an impressive run down the stretch of the regular
season, the Rangers made quick work of the Atlanta Thrashers in
the first round, sweeping the Southeast Division champions.


Michael Nylander and captain Jaromir Jagr were especially potent,
recording eight and seven points, respectively, in the four-game
series.


The Ducks won three of four regular-season meetings against the
Canucks and the lone loss came in overtime.


Anaheim advanced with a four-games-to-one first-round win over
Minnesota.

