

Demonstrators took to the streets Tuesday as a power struggle
dividing both the legislature and the judiciary over President
Rafael Correa's reform program devolved into a sweeping
constitutional crisis.


A prosecutor ordered the arrest of 24 deputies, nearly half of
the 50 who the Constitutional Tribunal, the country's highest
court, ordered reinstated to Congress after they were sacked in
March over their refusal to go along with far-reaching
constitutional reforms promoted by Correa.


The 24, who had yet to re-occupy their seats, were accused of
plotting against the state, said judge Elsa Sanchez.


According to prosecutor Elsa Moreno, the deputies were suspected
of sedition for "rising against the government, refusing to
recognize the constitution, and impeding a meeting of the
Congress."


The accusation came following Congress's dismissal of the
country's nine Constitutional Tribunal justices after they
reinstated the 50 lawmakers who had opposed Correa's
constitutional reforms.


The 50, and seven others who had yet to seek reinstatement, were
dismissed on March 7 for rejecting a court decision backing a
national referendum on holding a constitutional convention to
rewrite the country's charter.


With the political opposition out of the way, in April voters
approved the convention by a five-to-one margin, giving Correa
the go-ahead in his effort to revamp the legislature and other
government structures to pursue his nationalist, socialist
agenda.


But the battle has opened a new political crisis for Ecuador, a
chronically unstable country that has had eight presidents in a
decade.


Outside the Congress, some 400 pro-government protestors rallied
against the expelled legislators, with police firing tear gas in
sporadic confrontations.


"The entire country is near war," said leftist party leader
Gustavo Ramirez.


The crisis saw Correa on a collision course with the high court
for reinstating the deputies, with Correa backing Congress's vote
Tuesday to oust the judges.


"The nine members of the Constitutional Tribunal have been
dismissed," said congressional vice president Byron Pacheco,
insisting the motion to remove them predated the court's ruling
on Monday.


Pacheco said the judges had overstayed the term for which
Congress had elected them.


While Correa rejected Monday's court ruling and insisted the
ouster of the opposition lawmakers remain in force, late Tuesday
he said he opposed the arrest order for the 24 accused of
sedition.


He said he would tell the authorities to rescind the arrest
order, "as the one responsible for the peace of the people."


Opponents of the president claim Correa is following in the
footsteps of Venezuela's leftist President Hugo Chavez.


The firebrand Venezuelan leader successfully pushed for the
election of a constituent assembly packed with his supporters in
1999.


Following the April 16 referendum, Ecuadorans will be called to
elect later this year a national assembly that will be tasked
with writing a new constitution.

