

US President George W. Bush will welcome Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe Thursday and Friday for talks on North Korea, Iraq,
and Tokyo's increasingly assertive global role, officials and
experts say.


US officials hope that the leaders will build on a strategic
relationship that blossomed and grew under Abe's predecessor,
Junichiro Koizumi, who was one of Bush's closest international
allies and staunchest backers of war in Iraq.


The US-Japan alliance "continues to mature under Abe and remains
a critical factor in the global equation," said White House
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


Pointing to Japan's involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan, diplomacy
towards North Korea, and role as the second-largest UN
contributor, Johndroe added: "We encourage Japan's engagement on
these and other fronts."


But experts say the prime minister, who will meet with Bush at
the White House and the Camp David presidential retreat, also
seeks reassurance on efforts to convince North Korea to give up
its nuclear weapons program.


Abe, who will be making his first US visit as prime minister,
said recently that he would press Bush on the emotional and
volatile issue of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea.


"I want to discuss with President Bush the importance of
resolving the abduction issue," he told relatives of kidnapped
Japanese.


Japan has refused to fund an international deal to supply North
Korea with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless
there is progress on the abduction issue.


Since 2003, Washington has tied the abductee issue to its
decision to list Pyongyang among the state sponsors of terrorism
and Bush has stood strongly with Japan in that dispute.


But "in negotiations with North Korea recently, the US has said
it wants to lift the sanctions on North Korea for terrorism, and
Abe wants to make sure that there won't be a de-linking," said
Mike Green, a former top Bush adviser on Asia now with the Center
for Strategic and International Studies think tank.


"Tokyo is worried that we're perhaps too eager for a resolution,"
and they "have not heard the same kind of unequivocal support we
gave them in the past," so Abe wants to be sure "that we're still
with them," said Green.


Bush and Abe -- who met in February in Tokyo with Vice President
Dick Cheney -- will use their talks as "an opportunity to
showcase our strong alliance with Japan, based on common values
and close cooperation on many global and regional issues," said
Johndroe.


"The United States and Japan, as the world's two largest high
technology economies and established democracies, are also
uniquely positioned to help promote effective development, expand
political liberty, and address environmental issues," he said.


US officials privately welcome Abe's decision to make China his
first destination upon taking office, noting difficult relations
between Beijing and Tokyo amid disputes over World War II-era
grievances.


His visit follows an uproar after he denied Japanese troops
directly coerced so- called "comfort women" -- sex slaves --
during World War II.


Abe has since offered repeated apologies to comfort women and
explained his position to Bush over the telephone.


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of World War II defeat, including the
US-imposed pacifist constitution.


And he recently decided to extend by two years an air mission
flying goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended the
ground troop deployment last year.


Expanding Japan's international role "may be something that Abe
wants to explain to President Bush, because it's one of Abe's top
priorities," said Green, who emphasized strong Bush
administration support for those efforts.


"Abe wants to do pretty much everything what the president would
have asked him to do anyway," said Green.

