

A veteran US lawmaker on Tuesday introduced legislation urging
Vice President Dick Cheney's impeachment for allegedly
manipulating intelligence used to justify the US invasion of
Iraq.


Cheney "has purposely manipulated the intelligence process to
deceive the citizens and Congress of the United States," said the
resolution introduced by House of Representatives Democrat Dennis
Kucinich


Kucinich, a contender for the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination, said Cheney did so "by fabricating a threat of Iraqi
weapons of mass destruction to justify the use of the United
States Armed Forces against the nation of Iraq."


His bill further accused the vice president of trumping up "an
alleged relationship between Iraq and Al-Qaeda," and having
"openly threatened aggression against the Republic of Iran absent
any real threat to the United States."


The bill, if passed, would go a long way in restoring America's
world standing, which has suffered because of the Iraq debacle,
Kucinich told a news conference.


"Something has to be done to reclaim our country's goodness, to
reclaim a government that American people want to be honest, want
to be just," he said.


His remarks came on a day when Cheney accused Democrats of
"defeatism" for their just-concluded Iraq war funding bill, which
sets an October deadline to begin pulling out US combat troops.


In rare remarks delivered at the US Capitol where he held
meetings with fellow Republicans, Cheney roundly criticized the
bill hammered out late Monday between House and Senate Democratic
leaders, which sets an April 2008 target date to complete the
troop pullout.


The vice president was particularly scornful of Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, who has led the charge for a quick US troop
drawdown.


"What's most troubling ... is his defeatism," Cheney said.


"The timetable legislation that he is now pursuing would
guarantee defeat," Cheney said in the continuing war of words
between congressional Democrats and the George W. Bush
administration over the way forward in Iraq.


Democrats said they hope to have the bill on President George W.
Bush's desk early next week, but Bush on Tuesday restated his
intention to veto it. Neither side has shown any willingness to
back down in the standoff.


For their part, Democrats dismissed the remarks by the vice
president, whom they said was clearly speaking in his familiar
role as Bush's "attack dog."


"The president sends out his attack dog often. That's also known
as Dick Cheney. And he was here again today," Democratic senator
Chuck Schumer told reporters.


And to Cheney's charge that he was "defeatist," Reid shot back:
"I'm not going to get into a name-calling match with somebody who
has a nine percent approval rating."

