

Floyd Landis's chances of keeping his victory from the 2006 Tour
de France took a nosedive on Tuesday when L'Equipe reported that
varying levels of synthetic testosterone have been found in urine
samples tested this week by French scientists.


Landis won the world's biggest race in dramatic fashion last
year, rebounding from a spectacular collapse on stage 16 to cap a
130km breakaway with victory on stage 17.


It was after stage 17 that one sample from the American cyclist
tested positive for elevated levels of the male sex hormone,
which is produced in the body but which also exists in a
synthetic (exogenous) form.


On Monday L'Equipe had reported that "B" samples belonging to the
American had been tested retrospectively following a request from
the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA).


A day later, L'Equipe said the results from the French laboratory
involved in testing seven of Landis's samples revealed that
"several" of those samples contained synthetic testosterone,
albeit at lower levels than his original positive test.


In a bid to back up their findings from the positive test which
snared Landis after the Tour de France, scientists at the
Laboratoire National Depistage de Dopage's (LNDD) laboratory at
Chatenay-Malabry outside Paris took a more profound approach to
the testing of Landis's seven urine samples.


Doping controllers are usually only alerted to the presence of
testosterone in a sample when the ratio of
testosterone/epitesterone is found to be at a level or four or
over. In adult males the ratio is usually around one.


The fact that only one of Landis's samples from last year's Tour
de France was over the threshold of four led to further testing,
his positive result and the ensuing scandal.


Landis, who denies taking performance-enhancing drugs, has
charged the LNDD with mis-handling his original samples.


However the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) showed their
faith in the French system by sanctioning the laboratory to carry
out tests on his B samples.


When testing samples, for example for synthetic testosterone -
which in sport can be used to enhance strength or endurance -
scientists can use a Mass Spectrometer device.


According to L'Equipe, the LNDD used the device to ascertain that
several of Landis's samples from last year's Tour contained
synthetic testosterone, albeit at levels that were not sufficient
to warrant a "positive" test.


Representatives of Landis, who were present at the tests in
Paris, have already complained that they were denied access
during the testing of two of the American cyclists's samples.


Landis spokesman Michael Henson said: "The analysis of two of the
samples was carried out in the absence of any representative for
Floyd Landis.


"This kind of behaviour constitutes a violation of his rights and
casts a serious shadow on the integrity of a procedure which is
already shrouded in doubt."


Tour de France race director Christian Prudhomme said the race
has now taken a step closer to finding a winner for 2006 -
Spaniard Oscar Pereiro finished second.


And ahead of Landis's hearing with the American anti-doping
authorities, scheduled for May 14, the Frenchman gave his
unstinting support to the French laboratory.


"I'm not surprised (in the results), because I've always had
confidence in the tests carried out at Chatenay-Malabry," said
Prudhomme.


"I don't see how Landis can now find a way out of this during his
hearing with the American Anti-Doping Agency.


"Since it has already been established that he cheated, it looks
even more likely now. Normally, he should be sanctioned.


"We will now wait for the whole procedure to be brought to an
end."

