

Nigeria's Olusegun Obasanjo, convinced he can get away with
anything as president of the world's sixth oil producer,
handpicked the man chosen to succeed him in elections even he
admitted were flawed by violence and fraud.


Last year, he persuaded ruling party heavyweights to step aside
one by one to clear the way for Umaru Yar'Adua, the obscure
governor of a northern state, to be chosen as the ruling party's
consensus candidate.


Obasanjo then did his best to weaken the opposition to help his
protege -- a total 50 parties signed up for Nigeria's violence-
marred presidential, parliamentary and state polls April 14 and
21.


"After all, in another four years, there will be an opportunity
for a fresh contest which I hope will take care of ballot paper
and ballot box malpractices," said Obasanjo, calling an end to
the show in inflappable style, even as criticism of the flawed
poll rained in from across the world.


A results sheet handed AFP by the electoral commission showed a
breakdown of results per candidate, but the column of totals for
the country's 36 states was blank.


But a Western diplomat said the scandal at home and abroad over
vote-rigging would die with a whimper.


"People will forget, and it'll soon be business as usual," he
said.


In office since 1999, Obasanjo tried in 2006 to have the
constitution revised to enable him to stay on for a third four-
year term.


Parliament quashed the move.


With that option ruled out, Obasanjo moved to maintain the hold
of his ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) across Africa's
most populous nation by backing his protege, Yar'Adua, for the
post of president and working to keep its parliamentary majority
as well as winning a maximum number of governorships in the
federation's 36 states.


Analysts as well as opponents also say Obasanjo used both the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the electoral
commission INEC to prevent his adversaries from running in the
polls.


Sebastian Spio-Garbrah of New York-based Eurasia group told AFP
that the EFCC had pursued Obasanjo's enemies with more zeal than
his cronies. EFCC boss Nuhu Ribadu has repeatedly dismissed the
claim.


But both the EFCC and INEC were instrumental in almost preventing
the president's onetime ally-turned-rival, Vice President Atiku
Abubakar, from running for head of state on the grounds he faced
allegations of corruption.


Abubakar was disqualified from running by INEC but the Supreme
Court ruled days before the election that he could stand. His
last-minute bid won him a third place behing Yar'Adua.


The international community had harsh words for elections that
left 200 dead, but stopped short of calling for a re-run.


The PDP now is set to govern Nigeria for the next four years
after staging what it billed as the first peaceful handover from
civilian to civilian since independence in 1960.


But seen from abroad, Nigeria equals oil -- currently accounting
for 10 percent of US oil imports and rising all the time.


"Everyone wondered how these elections would go," the Africa boss
of an oil major told AFP. "They finally took place and it's
peaceful. This is good news for Nigeria and good news for the oil
industry. The important thing is stability."


On the oil market, prices struck three-week highs on Tuesday due
to concerns about Nigerian supplies.


"I think that at any time you could start to see an upsurge in
violence and that could put plans to restart oil on hold,
potentially even hit the oil which is currently being produced,"
said Global Insight analyst Simon Wardell.


"It lowers risk if you have people accepting the results and
trying to work together, but I'm not sure it's in the immediate
future," Wardell added.

