

The only Canadian detained at the US "war on terror" camp in
Guantanamo Bay has been charged with murder, conspiracy, spying
and providing material support for terrorism, the Pentagon said
Tuesday.


The US Defense Department said that the charges against Omar
Khadr, who was arrested in Afghanistan in 2002 at age 15, had
been referred to a military commission and he would be put on
trial within four months.


But prosecutors will not seek the death penalty in the case --
the second Guantanamo inmate to be tried by special military
courts -- which will be heard at the US Navy's Guantanamo Bay
prison facility on Cuba's southeastern tip.


An initial hearing should be held within a month. The charges
will be explained to the accused, and he will have a first chance
to offer a plea.


Prosecutors say Khadr, 20, is the son of Egyptian-born Ahmed Said
Khadr, an Al- Qaeda official killed in October 2003 by Pakistani
forces.


Born in Canada, he joined his father in Afghanistan where he
underwent military training. He was arrested in July 2002 after
US-led forces invaded the country in the wake of the September
11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.


He is charged specifically with killing a US soldier, Sergeant
Christopher Speer, with a hand grenade during a July 27, 2002
battle in Afghanistan.


The US charges declare that as a fighter for Al-Qaeda, Khadr did
not have "combatant immunity" that national armies have from
criminal charges in wartime.


It declared his act was therefore "in violation of the law of
war."


He is also charged with conducting surveillance of US forces in
Afghanistan for Al-Qaeda, and with conspiracy for training with
Al-Qaeda and making bombs for the organization.


The Pentagon statement stressed that Khadr is considered innocent
of any criminal charges unless he is proven guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt at a military commission.


Khadr will be the second Guantanamo inmate to face the special
military commissions set up under a new US law in late 2006 that
limits defendants' rights, compared to US laws applied to
civilians.


The law has drawn extensive criticism, especially from abroad,
for denying Guantanamo prisoners' basic rights.


Critics have objected especially that the law allows prosecutors
to use indirect witness testimony and statements extracted under
duress.


The first prisoner to face trial under the new law, Australian
David Hicks, pleaded guilty in March to attending Al-Qaeda
training camps and volunteering to fight in support of the
Taliban regime during the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


Hicks was convicted of the charges against him but received a
nine-month sentence based on a plea bargain which will see him
deported to Australia to serve his sentence.


His sentence carried with it the condition that he not speak to
the media for 12 months or to allege mistreatment while in
Guantanamo.


Earlier this month, Khadr and Yemeni Salim Ahmed Hamdan, another
Guantanamo inmate about to face military trial, sought out a
Supreme Court ruling on their constitutional right to challenge
their detention in federal courts before proceedings begin.


But the US high court refused to hear the case, ruling that they
had not exhausted all other legal options.


The refusal left intact a federal appeals court ruling that
Guantanamo inmates had no constitutional right to challenge their
detention before federal courts because they were not US citizens
or on US soil.


Hamdan and Khadr said they do not have time to pursue other legal
avenues with their trials imminent.


"The recent plea of David Hicks has cast further doubt on the
ability of these commissions to prosecute cases fairly," the
petitioners' brief argued.


"If they (the trials) go forward within that legal vacuum, the
process will ultimately cast doubt on this nation's judicial
system and our hallowed traditions of fairness in the eyes of the
world."


However, the US Defense Department, in announcing Khadr's
charges, insisted that the military commissions afford defendants
"all the necessary judicial guarantees which are recognized as
indispensable by civilized peoples for purposes of Common Article
3 of the Geneva Conventions."

