

North Korea has confirmed that problems in transferring its cash
from a Macau bank are delaying settlement of a long-running
dispute which is blocking progress on a nuclear disarment deal.


But South Korea said the row over the accounts, which had been
frozen in Banco Delta Asia (BDA) at US instigation, is close to
being settled.


"There have been no results yet. We have to see them," Kim Myong-
Gil, deputy head of the North Korean delegation to the United
Nations, told Yonhap news agency Tuesday in a telephone interview
about the BDA funds.


"Transfer (to other banks) must become possible," Yonhap quoted
him saying in a report on Wednesday.


Asked whether the United States has promised to make the transfer
possible, Kim replied: "That was agreed upon from the beginning."


The North, which tested a nuclear bomb last October, missed an
April 14 deadline to start shutting down its nuclear programme
under a six-nation accord reached in February.


It has always said it will only make the first move once it
receives the 25 million dollars which had been frozen in BDA
since 2005 on suspicion of money- laundering and counterfeiting.


Macau's financial authorities have unblocked the funds and the
United States has said they are available for collection.


Analysts believe other foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash because it is seen as tainted. They say that
apart from just recovering the money from BDA, North Korea wants
to ensure that its access to the international financial system
has been restored.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said the dispute was
almost settled.


"There still exist various procedural matters to sort out and the
efforts to resolve them are near the final stage," he told
reporters.


"All the participants in the six-party talks are determined to
implement the February 13 agreement," Song said.


He said he would meet US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to
discuss the North Korean nuclear issue on the sidelines of an
international conference on Iraq in Egypt next month.


South Korea's chief nuclear negotiator Chun Yung-Woo left Monday
for the United States for talks with his counterpart Christopher
Hill on the bank row.


Yonhap said a senior White House official hurried to New York on
Tuesday for discussions with North Korean diplomats on the same
issue.


Victor Cha, director for Asian affairs at the National Security
Council, canceled a Washington appointment at the last minute and
headed for New York where North Korea's UN mission is situated,
it quoted a source as saying.


On Sunday South Korea agreed to resume its annual 400,000 tons of
rice aid to the North, but said shipments would be conditional on
Pyongyang moving to shut down its nuclear programme.

