

Stephen Fleming said it's time New Zealand started producing
World Cup players who can break through the constant
disappointment of falling at the semi-final hurdle.


The Black Caps suffered their fifth semi-final defeat in the
nine-edition history of the tournament when they slumped to a
heartbreaking 81-run loss against Sri Lanka here at Sabina Park
on Tuesday.


Sri Lanka, the 1996 champions, piled up an imposing 289 for five
with skipper Mahela Jayawardene's 115 not out the centrepiece.


In reply, New Zealand lost five wickets for 11 runs in 23 balls
against Sri Lanka's spinners, with Muttiah Muralitharan striking
three times in six balls alone, as they collapsed to 116 for
seven before being dismissed for 208.


Fleming, who after the match announced his resignation as New
Zealand's one-day captain, said: "We were outclassed at key
moments."


"I'm very proud of where we've got to but I'm disappointed that
we are not going one step further."


His pride comes from knowing his team continues to punch above
their weight - there are only 150 professional players in a
population of four million where rugby union is the dominant
sport.


"There are a lot of other New Zealand teams that have felt the
hollow feeling and we just have to get on with it.


"We've got to make sure semi-finals are a line in the sand. We've
got to produce players of the calibre to take us to a World Cup
semi-final and win it.


"We hoped we were going to have a couple of great days and get
there this time. But we are just going to have to wait.


"We do damn well with what we've got. For a country like ours to
keep producing semi-final sides is very good but we are not happy
with that. It's not good enough."


After losing twice in this World Cup to Sri Lanka, and suffering
a 215-run reverse against champions Australia, who play South
Africa in Wednesday's second semi-final, Fleming said his side
had fallen short against the best.


"Australia and Sri Lanka may go on to contest the final and if
that's the case there's no shame in being beaten by them in a
World Cup.


"They are the only teams that beat us. But if you look at why
they beat us, it's probably that skill factor.


"Sri Lanka, where their bowling attack is unusual but the best,
against an Australia batting line-up which is the best in the
tournament, if that's the final it will be a good contest to
watch."


New Zealand were still in the game with Sri Lanka, who won the
toss and were 129 for three off 30 overs.


But Jayawardene took the game away from them although he was
dropped on 70 by Shane Bond.


In all 102 runs came off the last 10 overs.


"We bowled poorly in the last 10," said Fleming. "Their captain
played extremely well and almost guarded himself until that last
10 overs to make sure they got a score. As good as he was, we
were equally as poor."


Reflecting on his team's approach, Fleming said: "We were very
nervous. We were desperate to get through this and get to the
final."


He said mediocre top-order batting - he himself made just one
following four successive noughts against Sri Lanka - had also
cost New Zealand dear.


"At some point it was probably going to expose us during a World
Cup and it did today."

