

General Motors took the news in stride Tuesday that it had lost
its position as the world's biggest automaker for the first time
since 1931 to Japanese rival Toyota.


Tom Wilkinson, a GM spokesman, said the Detroit giant was well
aware of the significance of the Toyota numbers but would remain
focused on turning its fortunes around after steep financial and
market share losses.


"It wasn't news we wanted to hear. But it's not going to distract
us from our efforts to rebuild GM," Wilkinson said.


"We had record sales in the first three months of 2007. Our sales
were up in three of four regions (of the world,) while sales are
improving at the retail level in the US."


The Japanese automaker Toyota has swept past General Motors in
the global sales race, ending for now GM's long reign as the
world's leading automaker.


Toyota reported Tuesday it sold a record 2.348 million units in
the first quarter, while GM sold 2.26 million units during the
first three months of the year.


Toyota is enjoying strong sales, particularly in the United
States, as higher prices at the pump boost demand for compact
cars, small sport utility vehicles and hybrids which use a mix of
electricity and gasoline.


GM had been the world's top automaker since 1931 when it had
surpassed the Ford Motor Co. in the midst of the Great
Depression.


But the US giant lost two billion dollars for 2006, as its market
share slipped in North America and the company took hefty
restructuring charges. Its US market share fell to 24 percent in
2006 as Toyota's shot up to 15.4 percent, according to industry
data.


GM chairman and chief executive Richard Wagoner also has said in
recent interviews he would not like to lose the number one
ranking to Toyota. On the other hand, he was prepared for a long
struggle, he said.


Others offered a harsher response to the news.


"It's a dark day," said Gloria Jean Morgan, president of United
Auto Workers Local 594, which represents workers at GM truck
plant in Pontiac, Michigan. "I'm not very happy."


Morgan added she hoped the reality of Toyota overtaking GM
finally begins to change attitudes in Washington on issues such
as trade policies.


"I'm hoping this is going to be a dark day in Washington too,"
she said.


Union officials have argued for years the US easygoing trade
policies have allowed companies such as Toyota to enjoy the
benefits from a both closed home market at home and a wide open
market in the United States.


UAW president Ron Gettelfinger has said in a recent speech the
neglect of the manufacturing sector is eating away at American
prosperity.


Those comments were echoed by John Edwards, the former Democratic
senator who is running for president in 2008, who argued that
development shows a flawed trade policy by the administration of
President George W. Bush.


"The news that Toyota has passed GM as the world's top automaker
while President Bush stubbornly pursues a one-sided trade deal
with South Korea vividly demonstrates the stakes of the next
election for American workers," Edwards said.


"For decades, American automakers and auto workers haven't just
built automobiles, they've built the American middle class that's
now been decimated by the failure and neglect of our national
economic policies," he said.


"A dangerous combination of bad trade policies and inattention to
economic crises like out-of-control health care and energy costs
is squeezing the life out of our manufacturing economy."


Edwards said the loss of GM's dominance should persuade the US
administration to abandon a trade deal with South Korea "that
kicks American automakers when they're down. We already buy more
than 100 times more South Korean cars than they buy from us."


Toyota has been careful not to gloat about its strong growth for
fear of triggering a protectionist backlash in the United States,
its vital market.


But some analysts said slowing tempo of sales in the United
States is making it difficult for GM and other American companies
to recover ground lost to Toyota.


Michael Bernacchi, professor of marketing at the University of
Detroit-Mercy, said the trends going into 2007 were well
established.


"Frankly, I was surprised it took them this long," said
Bernacchi. "This isn't going to be the last such announcement. We
in Detroit better get used to it. It's the reality."

