

Russia pays its final respects Wednesday to former president
Boris Yeltin at a lavish state funeral where mourners will
include a host of contemporaries on the world stage such as Bill
Clinton and Mikhail Gorbachev.


Yeltsin, who died on Monday from heart failure, aged 76, will be
buried alongside eminent Russians at Moscow's historic
Novodevichy cemetery, where he will join the great playwright
Anton Chekhov and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.


Ceremonies, to be held from 0800 GMT, will also be attended by
former US president George Bush, Britain's former prime minister
John Major and German President Horst Koehler.


Yeltin's successor, Vladimir Putin, has postponed his annual
state of the nation speech from Wednesday to Thursday.


He said that under Yeltsin, "a newly democratic Russia was born,
and a free nation opened to the world."


However, millions of ordinary Russians nostalgic for Soviet power
blame Yeltsin for losing a vast empire and plunging his country
into years of economic and political turmoil.


A poll by the Levada Analytical Centre last December found 70
percent of respondents thought the Yeltsin era did more harm than
good. Half thought he should be prosecuted.


Liberal critics underline his launch of two Chechen wars, his
alliance with corrupt business tycoons and the handover of power
in 1999 to Putin, an ex-KGB officer who restored national pride
but has restricted political freedom.


Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader and the man brought down by
Yeltsin's pro- democracy crusade, gave a mixed appraisal.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," he said.


Yeltsin will be best remembered for bravely clambering onto a
tank sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist hardliners attempting
a coup in the dying days of the Soviet Union.


His defiance galvanised pro-democracy supporters, ushered in the
Soviet collapse in December 1991 and eight years of turbulent,
historic rule.


Yeltsin sought to drag Russia into the modern age. He forced the
bankrupt communist economy to adopt capitalism, unleashed
political pluralism, and allowed a vibrant, freewheeling media.


The mass circulation pro-government daily Izvestia praised
Yeltsin for not clinging on to power at the close of his second
term.


"In power many people cursed him, but in leaving the Kremlin he
showed his critics and his supporters that there is something
more important than hunger for power," it said.

