

Booming music, flashy presentations and performances by scantily
clad, violin- sawing women are all part of global automakers'
hustle to court the Chinese customer at the Shanghai auto show.


But amid the deafening noise, the glare of hot lights and the
maddening crowds at the week-long car show in China's financial
hub, the stands of the world's most exclusive luxury car makers
are an oasis of relative quiet.


As scores of mostly men gather around to snap photos of wafer-
thin models posing in front of Volkswagen and General Motors cars
amid hovering salesman, the likes of Bentley and Rolls Royce
prefer their cars to speak for themselves.


"We don't want to be loud and in fact we don't need to be," said
Bill Cheng, general manager for China operations for Bentley,
producers of some of the globe's most expensive and exclusive
hand-made cars.


"Bentley is truly about luxury and is very low profile. Our
customers know that."


Such an understated approach is of course made easier when
automakers like Bentley, whose newly unveiled Arnage sedan
retails for 6.48 million yuan (839,000 dollars), can turn to its
top secret customer list.


"Our customers are not walking in. They are special customers who
are already on our lists and are invited," said Kingston Chang,
business manager for Bentley China.


China, with its booming economy that last year summed several
hundred thousand millionaires and 15 billionaires, is now a key
luxury market.


Sales of high-end cars in 2006 totalled 150,000 units, according
to market research firm CCID Consulting. The firm estimates that
over the next five years sales are projected to jump to 400,000.


Bentley's Chang said that by the end of the Shanghai show
Saturday he expects to have booked about 20 new orders or about
10 percent of the cars it expects to deliver in China this year,
up from 127 in 2006 and 64 in 2005.


"It's tremendous growth," he said.


For Rolls Royce, the China market is growing so quickly that it
is now expanding into the country's less developed interior with
a showroom in the southwestern city of Chengdu, said Ian
Robertson, chairman and CEO of Rolls Royce.


"China is a very important market for Rolls-Royce, with sales in
2006 growing by more than 60 percent, making the region our third
largest market in the world behind the USA and the UK," Robertson
said.


At Spyker, Holland's maker of hand-crafted sports cars, supply
can't keep up with China's demand for its 5.88 million yuan
"Beijing to Paris" SUV model, its first foray into the segment.


But selling to China's wealthy, whose average age at 35 to 45
years is a decade younger than the average buyer in Europe, the
United States or Japan, also means catering to Chinese
sensitivities.


"Many will say that sports cars are not really useful, but we try
and show that you don't have to race a sports car, but rather
it's a type of lifestyle," said Zhu.


"Chinese customers really like to be paid attention to and be
taken care of so we make sure we organise high-end events for
them," said Zhu, describing invitation-only golf weekends,
exclusive test drives and dinners.

