

The dollar hovered close to its record low against the euro in
Asian trade Wednesday after weak US housing data stoked worries
about the state of the world's largest economy, dealers said.


They said that dollar also eased back against the yen as the
market braced for a raft of US and Japanese economic data later
this week.


The dollar declined to 118.40 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
118.55 in New York late Tuesday.


The euro slipped to 1.3633 dollars from 1.3640 -- just shy of its
record high of 1.3666 dollars struck in December 2004. The single
European currency fell to 161.43 yen from 161.72.


"Although individual corporate earnings in the United States are
positive and stock markets are robust, macroeconomic indicators
remain weak," said Kazuhiko Shibata, manager of Dresdner Bank's
Tokyo branch.


Resilient economic growth in the eurozone and expectations of
another interest rate hike there by the European Central Bank in
June have therefore led investors to ditch the dollar for the
euro, he added.


On Tuesday, figures showed existing US homes sales fell by their
biggest margin in over 18 years in March, falling 8.4 percent to
an annualised pace of 6.12 million units in March. Most
economists had expected sales would only fall to 6.45 million
units from 6.68 million in February.


The drop in homes sales was the largest since January 1989 when
sales dived 12.6 percent and sales are now at their lowest since
June of 2003.


The dollar was also depressed by a fall in the Conference Board's
consumer confidence index to 104.0 from 108.2 in March, marking a
second straight monthly decline.


The figures fuelled jitters ahead of this Friday's key US gross
domestic product (GDP) figures for the first quarter.


"The market expects the (GDP) numbers to be a bit soft because of
the weak housing market and the fact that companies are not
directing their cashflow into capital investment," Shibata said.


"If the figures are indeed weak, investors will expect an
interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve sometime in the
autumn," he added.


Japanese traders are also waiting for a slew of domestic news
Friday including consumer prices and the Bank of Japan's economic
outlook report that could prove pivotal to when the central bank
next raises interest rates.

