

Thousands of people in Australia and New Zealand held services
Wednesday to honour their war veterans on a national holiday,
including a march to remember oft-forgotten black soldiers who
served.


Anzac Day marks the start of the gruelling World War I battle of
Gallipoli, in which thousands of Australian and New Zealand Army
Corps (Anzac) soldiers died, and which now honours all those who
served in wartime.


More than 10,000 people crowded the Australian War Memorial in
Canberra for a dawn service and some 20,000 lined Sydney streets
to cheer a veterans' parade.


The parade was led by two riderless horses to symbolise the
passing of all Australian veterans from the Boer and first world
wars.


Meanwhile, a small number of indigenous ex-servicemen led about
300 supporters through the streets of inner-city Redfern,
Sydney's Aboriginal heartland, to the applause of scores of
onlookers.


"It brings tears to my eyes," said retired Chief Petty Officer
David Williams, a navy submariner who spent 29 years in the
military.


"It's a thank you and that's all a digger (soldier) requires
whether they are black, white or brindle."


About 500 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders were involved in
World War I and as many as 5,000 in World War II, but they
received little or no recognition and faced racism and inequality
when they returned home.


Ray Minniecon, an Aboriginal Anglican pastor who organised the
march and church service for indigenous veterans, said he wanted
to promote ties between black and white communities on Anzac Day,
one of Australia's most revered holiday.


"To us, this is about reconciliation, it's about recognition," he
said.


"These were brothers in arms in those wars, and when they came
back there was inequality. We're just trying to bring that
reconciliation back, and the respect and the honour that these
guys deserve."


One of the Aboriginal servicemen honoured, Harry Allie, said he
was "extremely proud" of the march.


"I think that it will inspire the young people coming through
today," said Allie, who spent 23 years in the airforce.


Despite serving their country, Aboriginal servicemen and women
returning home from WWI and WWII did not have the same citizen
rights as other Australians and were unable to vote, own property
or marry a non-Aboriginal.


The indigenous march was initially criticised by the main
veterans group, the Returned and Services League (RSL).


But national president Bill Crews later said he supported the
event, adding that Aboriginal soldiers had served admirably since
the first world war.


"It's not in competition with the march in Sydney and for that
reason we're certainly not against it, indeed we support it," he
told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"We are now encouraging people to pay more attention to the very
significant role those servicemen and women have made over the
years."


Thousands also attended dawn parades across New Zealand.


In Auckland, as a bugler sounded the Reveille, the crowd of
20,000 was told that playing it at the dawn service proclaimed
the belief that the landing of the Anzac troops at Gallipoli was
the "dawn of nationhood of New Zealand and Australia."


In Wellington, former Secretary of Defence Graham Fortune spoke
of the sacrifices made by New Zealanders and Australians and said
the two countries needed to remember their shared heritage.


"New Zealand and Australia gather to honour our men and women who
fought, suffered and died," he said.


"We and Australia have always worked together in war and peace.
We must continue to do so."

