

The United States, Europe, Russia and China are ready to give
Iran a chance to edge its way slowly into halting uranium
enrichment in a compromise gesture to get nuclear talks started,
diplomats told AFP.


They were speaking on the eve of a meeting here Wednesday between
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and Iranian nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani to see if talks are possible between Iran
and six world powers which last June offered economic, technical
and security benefits if Iran suspended uranium enrichment.


Tehran has defied two Security Council resolutions for it to
suspend enrichment, which makes what can be fuel for civilian
power reactors or the raw material for nuclear bombs.


The six states -- the five permanent UN Security Council members
Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States, plus
Germany -- fear Tehran is using what it says is a peaceful effort
to generate electrictiy as a cover for the development of nuclear
weapons.


"If a solution can be found, it will cost the price of
suspension," a European diplomat said.


A second diplomat, who like the first required strict anonymity
to discuss confidential issues, said Solana was trying to probe
"if real talks can begin."


One idea would be for Iran to declare a moratorium on moving
beyond activities it has already started, such as installing and
running some 1,300 centrifuge machines as it seeks to upgrade
from current research levels of enrichment to industrial
production.


The moratorium could open the way for further talks with Solana,
with the UN Security Council holding off on further sanctions
against the Islamic Republic as long as Iran implements a full
suspension of enrichment work.


A Western diplomat said the key was to find a way "for Iran to
halt its program in a way that they are not merely stalling for
time" in order to move forward again with their nuclear
ambitions.


"The key question is whether there is any formulation for
suspending enrichment that the Iranians feel they can live with,"
the diplomat said, expressing doubts that this could happen.


The diplomat said talks with the five permanent Security Council
members plus Germany would not in any case start before Iran
suspends enrichment.


"Suspension does not mean dismantling what they have built," the
diplomat said, adding that it was mainly about stopping the
centrifuges from spinning in the refining of the U-235 isotope
that makes for enriched uranium as well as keeping the Iranians
from learning how to run centrifuges.


Iran says it is merely exercising its right to nuclear energy
under the Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT).


The Security Council has levied low-key measures against Iran,
such as banning travel by Iranian nuclear officials, with the
option open to impose tougher punishment that could include
international economic sanctions.


Diplomats said they doubted whether Iran, despite reported
divisions among hardliners and more moderate elements in Tehran,
was ready to compromise.


The United States held firm Tuesday to demands that Iran freeze
all its uranium enrichment activities.


"There is no change in our policy -- Iran needs to suspend its
enrichment- related activities if it wants to enter into
negotiations," said Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department
spokesman.


Earlier this month Iran announced that it was on its way to
setting up some 3,000 centrifuges at a protected underground site
in Natanz. It confirmed plans to eventually have a total of
54,000 centrifuges running there, a level of enrichment that
could produce some 20 nuclear bombs a year.


But US officials and non-proliferation experts doubt the Iranians
have mastered the difficult technique of actually enriching
uranium.


Iran has dampened hopes of a breakthrough in the talks in Ankara
by insisting it has no intention of yielding to the West's
demands.


"Why are they emphasising that Iran should suspend even for a
month?" President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in an interview Monday
with Iran's Arabic-language television Al-Alam.


Iran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month to
suspend enrichment, after which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack to bring
Iran to heel.

