

Seventeen years after the end of Lebanon's civil war, history
textbooks in schools still do not tackle the controversial strife
which continues to blight political life in a country where the
past is ever-present.


Ongoing political disputes in Lebanon, which spilled over into
deadly street fighting in January, have revived the spectre of
civil war in a country where many of the leading politicians were
once militia chiefs.


"I have only a vague idea about what happened" during the
devastating 1975-1990 conflict, said 18-year-old Hala, who is
studying for her baccalaureate so she can go to university in the
autumn.


"All I know about it I got from my parents and the news on
television," she told AFP.


Mahmud, a 23-year-old undergraduate finance student, said his
generation "suffers from amnesia, as part of our collective
memory has been erased."


The story of the civil war "should be taught in schools so that
it is not repeated," he said.


But history lessons in school textbooks stop with the withdrawal
of French troops from Lebanon in 1946 -- three years after the
end of France's 23-year mandate over the country.


A lack of consensus over a common version of the war -- and even
previous events widely believed to have led to it, including
civil strife in 1958 -- has ensured that these bloody pages are
omitted from school textbooks.


The Lebanese prefer to use the euphemism "the events" when they
mention the civil war that devastated their country, killed more
than 150,000 people and left thousands still missing.


History in Lebanon is generally presented as a point of view in
which every incident is perceived according to the viewer's
religious background.


"Usually students learn history in school. But in Lebanon, the
student comes to class knowing the history of his country from
his parents," teacher Jamal Arafat said.


Another history teacher, Michel Khoury, said: "We avoid talking
about it because it is a sensitive subject among students,
particularly when they are from different faiths."


"How can you have a unified history book when the Lebanese still
don't agree among themselves on which foreign country is a
'friend' or an 'enemy' of their nation?" asked journalist Nasri
Sayegh.


Lebanon has been paralysed for months because of the continued
wrangling between the Western-backed government of Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora and the opposition led by the pro-Syrian, pro-
Iranian Shiite militant party Hezbollah.


Even before the outbreak of civil war 32 years ago, Lebanon was
torn between Western-backed and pro-Arab forces.


"History is generally written by the victors. But in Lebanon,
there were officially no winners or losers" when the civil war
ended, Sayegh said.


Teacher Antoine Shahin has taken the private initiative of
teaching contemporary history to his students "without imposing
my opinion" on them.


"The students of today are eager to learn about their country's
recent past. They are the ones who ask questions" about the civil
war, he said. "I let the student be the judge."


Political science professor Antoine Messarra said history books
required thorough documentation, backed up by contemporary
newspaper coverage in order to present different points of view.


For Amal Makarem, head of the "Memory for the Future" association
which works for reconciliation in Lebanon, "admitting
responsibilities over the war would be the first step for this
page in history to be written.


"But everyone in Lebanon has locked memories -- the people want
to forget and the leaders want their crimes to be forgotten," she
said.

