

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming admitted his side had been
completely outclassed by Sri Lanka after the Asian side cruised
into the World Cup final on Tuesday.


Sri Lanka, riding on the back of an unbeaten 115 by skipper
Mahela Jayawardene, wrapped up an 81-run win and will now face
either Australia or South Africa in Saturday's final in Barbados.


"We were outclassed," said Fleming after his side were bowled out
for 208 chasing 290 to win at Sabina Park.


"They have some big game players and a lot of heavy artillery in
their bowling line-up.


"We had hoped to restrict them to the mid-200s but Mahela played
a great innings and we conceded 100 runs in the last 10 overs -
that was very poor.


"The margin of victory was about right."


Jayawardene had won the toss and elected to bat and Sri Lanka
made the most of a wayward display by spearhead Shane Bond who
finished with 1-59 off his 10 overs.


In stark contrast, Sri Lanka's opening pair Chaminda Vaas and
Lasith Malinga bowled two impressive, mean opening spells as New
Zealand were limited to 30-1 off the first 10 overs.


"Even if we won the toss I don't think it would have changed the
result," said Fleming who had a miserable time with the bat being
lbw to Malinga for just one in the second over.


"Vaas and Malinga bowled great opening spells and that's where
the match was won and lost. Then Murali (4-31) came on. We gave
him an opening and it's rare that he doesn't take it."


Jayawardene said making a century was not on his mind when he
came to the crease at 67-2 in the 14th over.


"I'm pretty happy with my century. I knew I had to stay there a
long time and try and bat the 50 overs but getting a hundred
wasn't on my mind.


"Still, it was good to connect with the bat on such a small
ground.


"We have been playing really good cricket and we wanted to stick
to the basics when it came to bowling and build some good
partnerships when it came to batting."


Muttiah Muralitharan went to the top of the wicket-taking list in
the tournament with 4-31 with his 'doosra' playing a crucial
role.


"I thought I would use the doosra, the batsmen are using the
sweep so I knew they would get a top edge," he said.


"I am also bowling a lot around the wicket now to right hand
batsmen and that helps me because it makes it harder for them to
see the ball.


"I hope it keeps working for me in the future."

