

The Cuban government has released seven dissidents from prison,
including a 42 -year-old man who had been behind bars for 17
years, dissident sources said Tuesday.


Six dissidents were released Tuesday after spending two years in
prison for "public disorder," "posing a danger" and "insolence,"
the sources said.


Their release came two days after another prominent dissident,
Jorge Luis Garcia Perez, 42, was freed after spending 17 years
and 37 days in prison on charges of "verbal enemy propaganda,"
"attempted sabotage" and failing to respect Cuban leader Fidel
Castro.


Perez, known as Antunez, was arrested for speaking out against
Castro, who leads the Americas' only one-party communist regime,
on March 15, 1990.


Dissidents did not see the prisoners' release as a goodwill
gesture from the government, saying recent summary and secretive
trials show that the government repression persists.


"We don't see anything special in this," Elizardo Sanchez, who
leads the Commission for Human Rights and National
Reconciliation, told AFP.


"We are happy for (Perez's) release, but he is coming into the
streets of a country under a government that doesn't respect any
civil, political and economic rights," Sanchez said.


"He has come out only to be exposed to an atmosphere of
intolerance and political persecution," he said.


While Cuba insists it hold no political prisoners, dissidents say
almost 300 are behind bars.


Sanchez also announced the releases of Manuel Perez Soria, 55;
Lazaro Alonso Roman, 32; and Emilio Leyva, 42.


Another dissident group, the outlawed National Coordinator for
Past and Current Political Prisoners, said three other dissidents
were released: Duylian Ramirez, Elio Chavez and Jose Diaz Silva.
There ages were not immediately given.


One of the newly freed dissidents reiterated his opposition to
Castro's regime.


"I am an opponent of this government and my life is fully
dedicated to this, because I am on the right side," Perez Soria
told AFP. "This country is screaming for economic, political and
social changes."

