

Bangladesh's emergency government was slated to meet later
Wednesday to decide the fate of the country's two former premiers
after plans to exile one in Saudi Arabia stalled, a minister
said.


"The government discussed the issue on Tuesday and will discuss
it again today (Wednesday) to decide whether the two leaders are
going to stay in the country or be absent for a while," an
interim government minister told AFP on condition of anonymity.


The military-backed government has been trying to exile both
women as part of its campaign to clean up the country's
notoriously corrupt politics.


On Sunday it blocked Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed from
returning from London after declaring her a threat to national
security. The Awami League held power between 1996 and 2001.


Khaleda Zia, the country's most recent prime minister and leader
of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), has reportedly agreed
to go into exile in return for leniency for her two sons, who
face corruption allegations.


But attempts to send her to Saudi Arabia hit a stumbling block
after the authorities there became reluctant to accept an
unwilling guest.


The minister denied that the government was seeking to compel the
two women to leave Bangladesh, but said Zia could face corruption
charges if she remained.


Sheikh Hasina has already had murder and extortion accusations
filed against her, although she has vowed to return and fight
them in person.


"There is huge anxiety, if she (Sheikh Hasina) comes back. What
will happen? Last year during political violence we saw people
dancing on dead bodies," the minister added.


"There have already been some cases against Sheikh Hasina and
there will possibly be cases against Khaleda Zia as well," he
said.


Both women have been accused by critics of years of misrule that
culminated in widespread violence and a political crisis in
January.


They have held power alternately since 1991 when democracy was
reinstated after a people's revolt ousted former military
dictator Hossain Mohammad Ershad.


Dubbed the "battling begums," the pair are reported to loathe
each other and are said not to have spoken in years.


They represent rival Bangladeshi dynasties that have dominated
the country's political landscape since it won independence in
1971.


Zia is the widow of former president Ziaur Rahman, who was killed
in an attempted military coup in 1981 and played a leading role
in the country's independence struggle.


Sheikh Hasina is the daughter of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,
Bangladesh's independence leader, who was the nation's first
prime minister and president. He was killed in a military coup in
1975.


The new interim government has pledged to hold elections by the
end of 2008 after completing sweeping reforms aimed at putting
democracy back on track.

