

Czech President Vaclav Klaus starts a four-day state visit to
Russia Thursday with relations strained by Prague's willingness
to host part of an expanded US missile defence shield.


Russian hostility to the controversial US project for a tracking
radar in the Czech Republic and 10 interceptor missiles in
neighbouring Poland is set to dominate the meeting between Klaus
and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, scheduled for
Friday.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to redouble US
attempts  to overcome Russian opposition to US bases on its
doorstep in Eastern Europe during an informal meeting of NATO and
Russian foreign ministers in Oslo on Thursday.


That encounter follows Moscow's rebuff to US Defense Secretary
Robert Gates on Monday after he delivered fresh assurances that
the defensive shield is aimed at Iran's growing threat and not
Russia's established nuclear arsenal.


The head of the US missile defence agency, General Henry Obering,
admitted in Prague earlier this week that while Washington had
largely won over European missile defence doubters, including key
NATO member Germany, Moscow had still to be convinced amid
warnings the project was reviving Cold War tensions.


"I would not give up. This is going to take time," Obering
explained during a press conference. "We see Iran continuing to
develop as they are. And I believe that that wake-up call will
hit sooner or later that we have to do something about this with
the Russians as well," he said.


"Hopefully that will be a catalyst that will help us," he added.


While admitting that the United States has other options besides
the Czech and Polish bases, Obering underlined that the two
former Soviet satellites, now staunch US allies, were
geographically ideal for defending against a possibile Iranian
missile attack on Europe and America.


Obering's packed one-day series of meetings with Klaus, Czech
politicians  and Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek, was aimed at
explaining "what the missile system can and cannot do" as
Washington seeks to convince local lawmakers to hurry up and
approve its project amid fears of "a growing Iranian threat."


While Topolanek's fragile centre-right coalition approved
launching negotiations with Washington over siting the radar
station on Czech soil last month, parliament will have the
decisive say with the coalition uncertain of a majority.


Recent Czech surveys have shown public opinion polarising over
the US base with a rising proportion of people opposed.


A poll by the CVVM institute on Tuesday showed 68.0 percent
against in April, compared with 61.0 percent in February, with
77.0 believing a referendum should be held on the issue.


But Russian threats of retaliation against Prague and Warsaw if
they go ahead and host the US defence system, have stirred up
resentment that Moscow is attempting to reexert its sway over its
former satellites.


Topolanek denounced some Russian fears over the defensive shield
as "irrational" in a joint news conference with Obering following
a meeting of the country's National Security Council, the top
defence and security decision-making body.


Klaus took part in the initial council meeting that approved the
first steps towards hosting the US radar in January and has since
backed the deployment of the missile shield as a defence of "the
free world". He insists that it is not aimed at Russia.


"Missile defence is the main issue in Czech-Russian relations at
the moment, but I do not expect a breakthrough from Klaus'
visit," Charles University, Prague, lecturer in contemporary
Russia, Karel Svoboda, told AFP.


"The problem is that Russia feels that NATO and the US are
getting closer and closer to its borders," he explained, adding
that the actual military threat posed to Russia by the extension
of the anti-missile shield is negligible.

