

Parliamentarians rejected a motion Tuesday that would have
blocked Prime Minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government
from extending Canada's military mission in Afghanistan beyond
February 2009.


The vote came a day after media reports that Afghan prisoners
captured by Canadian forces faced possible torture after being
transferred to Afghan custody.


The resolution, proposed by the opposition Liberals, was voted
down 150 to 134.


The motion asked the government to dispel speculation that
Canada's combat mission could be extended beyond 2009, its
current mandate, and advise its NATO allies so they may prepare
for an orderly handover of duties.


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in the volatile Kandahar
region in southern Afghanistan hunting down former Taliban
militants.


Since 2002, 54 soldiers and one senior diplomat have died in
attacks, accidents or roadside explosions.


Last year, Harper's Conservatives pushed through Parliament a
two-year extension of the mission to February 2009, with the
support of several Liberal MPs, but did not exclude the
possibility of a further commitment.


The Liberals now accuse Harper of having already made up his mind
to extend the mission, despite his public denials.


According to a poll Tuesday, 52 percent of Canadians support the
troop deployment in Afghanistan, but 63 percent also want their
soldiers to return home in 2009.


The Liberals this week called for Defense Minister Gordon
O'Connor's resignation for not immediately halting the practice
of transferring Afghan prisoners to Kabul after a Toronto
newspaper reported the torture allegations.


The Globe and Mail said Monday it had "uncovered a litany of
gruesome stories and a clear pattern of abuse by the Afghan
authorities who work closely with Canadian troops."


The report said detainees, who are regularly handed over to
Afghan forces, suffer whips with electrical cables, electric
shocks, exposure to cold temperatures and beatings, "despite
Canada's assurances that the rights of detainees are protected."


In March, O'Connor apologized for telling lawmakers that the
International Committee of the Red Cross would alert Canada of
any mistreatment of prisoners transferred from Canadian custody,
acknowledging the statements were "inaccurate."


A new accord struck with the Afghan Independent Human Rights
Commission is now also being questioned over the alleged lapses
in monitoring of prisoners.

