

Australia has joined the race to open the US Major League
Baseball season in either 2008 or 2009 but faces challenges from
China, Taiwan, Japan and South Korea.


The league has said it is looking to open outside of the United
States, with the vast untapped market of China shaping up as
favourite.


Australian Baseball Federation special projects manager Alan Weir
said the ABF was in discussions with the Victorian state
government about Melbourne hosting games.


"To host a high-profile game like an opening series of any Major
League team would be outstanding for Australian baseball," Weir
told Australian Associated Press.


"We and Major League Baseball have been working on this for a
while and we'll see what happens."


Four times in the past seven years, Major League Baseball has
staged season openers outside the United States or Canada.


San Diego and Colorado met in a 1999 opener in Mexico. The next
year, the Chicago Cubs and New York Mets played in Japan.


In 2003, the Toronto Blue Jays and Texas Rangers began the season
in Puerto Rico and the following year the Tampa Bay Devil Rays
and New York Yankees kicked it off in Japan.


The director of Major League Baseball for Australia and New
Zealand, Tom Nicholson, said the league may award games to
several countries this time.


"That's one item that's being looked by our international
office," he said.


MLB's senior vice president of international business operations,
Paul Archey, told the league's website last month: "We're
definitely planning on having a season opener (outside the US),
but right now I can't tell you where it's going to be."


Late last year, the New York Times said the 2008 season could
open in China, citing MLB president Bob DuPuy who said it
depended on China completing its ballpark for the 2008 Olympics
in time for games in late March or April.


ABF's Weir admitted Australia faced a tough challenge against
China.


"Baseball is a very major sport in Taiwan, Korea and Japan," he
said.


"China is embryonic but if they get one percent of the Chinese
population turned on to baseball then they've got an instant
audience straight away of millions of people."


Australia has about 100 professional players in the United States
and two on Major League rosters -- left fielder Chris Snelling at
the Washington Nationals and relief pitcher Peter Moylan at the
Atlanta Braves.

