

Distrusted by the Americans, hated by residents and targeted by
extremists -- the Iraqi police in the Baghdad suburb of Dura
insist they are doing their best in "the most dangerous place in
Iraq."


Dura is home to a large and bitter Sunni Arab community, and many
residents complain the police force sent by their Shiite-led
government colludes with sectarian militias such as radical
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army.


Dura police commander Brigadier General Ghazwan Sharif Abdel
Hamid denies this, and insists that if the district is still
violent it is partly because his force is undermanned and is
outgunned by Sunni insurgents.


Leaning across his desk to brief US Brigadier General Dana
Pittard, he paints a gory picture of Dura, confiding tales of
murder and a few choice words apparently gleaned from one recent
interrogation of a suspected insurgent.


"I asked why are you killing Shiites? 'Because they're my
enemies.' Why are you killing Sunnis? 'Because they're helping my
enemies.' Why are you killing Christians? 'I'm learning how to
kill with Christians'," he said.


Dura, once a plush district surrounded by green fields and
grazing cattle has become a frontline killing ground for Islamist
militants -- including Al-Qaeda -- and Shiite militias
"cleansing" the area of Sunnis.


Outside morning business hours, the market, billed as a success
story by the Americans with shops reopening since they opened a
base there, is a mean stretch of blown-out windows, bullet-
scarred buildings and rubbish.


In front of Ghazwan's police camp, two policemen sit in a beaten-
up patrol car with the front window blown out, as filthy smoke
pumps out from a nearby oil refinery.


While briefing Pittard -- the US general in charge of training
local forces -- Ghazwan is upbeat, but does recite a list of
problems: people demanding compensation, unemployment,
insecurity, kidnappings and killings.


"We tell them: 'Patience. Remember we're in the most dangerous
place in Iraq and it's called al-Dura'."


Ten weeks into the US-backed plan to secure Baghdad, Iraqi
officers complain they are understaffed, outgunned and denied
crucial government support.


"There are only four neighbourhoods (in Dura) with a lot of
problems... a very large area with 7,500 houses altogether.
Therefore if each house has one AK-47 assault rifle, that makes
7,500 AK-47s out there," Ghazwan said.


"My brigade has 2,000 police, but if you take into account the
wounded, people on leave, those on active duty are about 1,000 on
a daily basis. Compare that to all those AK-47s," he admitted
after Pittard leaves the room.


In six months, Ghazwan said 67 policemen have been killed and 376
wounded. He expected only about 50 or 60 of the wounded to return
to duty.


"Even the coalition forces told me I need more forces to secure
the area. I need 3,000 on active duty, which is three times what
I have."


US commanders have expressed concern about the Iraqi police,
heavily dominated by Shiites and often seen as complicit in
sectarian violence, questioning where their loyalties lie and
seeing further training as the key.


Pittard said roughly 10,000 police, or around 50 percent of the
national force, have been through the first ever collective unit
training with US instructors at Numaniyah, and Ghazwan's unit is
tipped to follow.


Graduates are issued with new digital-pattern uniforms that
Americans say will become a symbol of the more professional force
they are trying to build.


Progress has also been made, the Americans say, in appointing an
increasing number of Sunni commanders.


Down the road from Dura is a US combat outpost, one of a string
of bases meant to extend the American presence in Baghdad
communities to clear out insurgents, hold and rebuild the area.


It is no accident that "Combat Outpost Attack" has been
constructed next to the only Sunni community left in the nearby
district of northern Rasheed.


Contrary to perceptions that the Mahdi Army went to ground in the
face of the US-led crackdown, Lieutenant Colonel Patrick Frank
says 85 percent of the fighting is with the fiercely anti-US
Shiite militia, and only a small amount with Al-Qaeda.


To make matters worse, officers are questioning the support they
are getting -- or not getting -- from some elements in the
government.


Although Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has vowed to get tough
with rogue elements of the Mahdi Army critics see a different
reality on the ground.


Pittard says he recently discovered that a police colonel, Nadir
Abdul Razzak Abboud, had been removed. Abboud's aides told the
Americans it was because he took action against the Mahdi Army as
well as Sunni insurgents.


Down at the combat outpost, one Iraqi officer openly accused the
Shiite-led government of trying to undermine his security
operations.


"Our duty in Baghdad is hard because we can't get any support
from the Maliki government," said Major Farhad Osman Osso, who
comes from a mainly Kurdish army unit redeployed from northern
Iraq to Rasheed.


"There are a lot of police stations. We believe they're involved
in sectarian violence and they're supporting the Mahdi Army."

