

A US territory in the Pacific is experiencing such severe
economic hardship it has asked Washington for a permanent
military installation as a source of income.


Lawmakers in the Northern Marianas have adopted a resolution
urging US Defense Secretary Robert Gates to consider the islands
for Washington's planned military expansion in the Asia Pacific
region.


They say they want the US-administered territory in the western
Pacific to be treated the same as neighboring Guam which will
soon host 8,000 US marines being relocated from Okinawa in Japan.


The United States and Japan have agreed to spend 15 billion
dollars in Guam over a 10-year period to fund the transfer, and
another 1.5 billion dollars will be pumped into Guam's economy
annually for infrastructure development.


With the Northern Marianas' main industries of textiles and
tourism both in a major slump, lawmaker Manuel A. Tenorio said
Sunday that a military solution was one of the few options to
revive the economy.


"I think it's about time that we explore a more permanent
military presence here. We don't have anything else. We don't
have many natural resources," he said.


Tenorio said the Northern Marianas island of Tinian, which
Washington used as the forward base to launch the atomic bombs on
Japan during World War II, would be a good place for another
military base in the Pacific region.


"At present, at least two-thirds of the island of Tinian is being
leased to the US military and could serve as a permanent military
base or defense installation should the United States Department
of Defense decide to develop and utilize the area," he said.


"The establishment of a permanent military presence in the
commonwealth will greatly assist in the revitalization of the
CNMI (Commonwealth of Northern Marianas Islands) economy, as it
has done to other economies, including Guam and Hawaii."


The Northern Marianas has been a commonwealth of the United
States since 1976 through a Covenant Agreement and its indigenous
people became US citizens through an executive order signed in
1986 by then president Ronald Reagan.


The island chain is currently home to about 70,000 people, of
whom about 20,000 are foreign workers, mostly from China and the
Philippines.

