

Dunfermline will face Celtic in the Scottish Cup Final after a
late Jim McIntyre penalty gave them a 1-0 win over Hibernian at
Hampden on Tuesday evening.


In addition to winning through to the final, Stephen Kenny's side
will also now qualify for next season's UEFA Cup, courtesy of
Celtic having booked their place in the Champions League.


Dunfermline's Irish manager was thrilled for everyone connected
with the club, whose team sit bottom of the Scottish Premier
League.


Kenny said: "I'm just delighted for all the people behind the
scenes who put so much effort into the club and for the players
themselves.


"The players have had a difficult season to say the least and
have had a lot of kicks in the teeth but they were tremendous
tonight.


"It's fantastic to have qualified in Europe and we will be aiming
to do Scotland proud.


"Dunfermline have the potential to be a real influential team in
Scotland but at the moment we will just enjoy getting to the
final."


Hibs, meanwhile, have now lost in three consecutive Scottish Cup
semi-finals against Dundee United, Hearts and now Dunfermline.


Manager John Collins, however, did not believe his side deserved
to lose.


He said: "The result was a bit harsh on us. From the kick-off we
took the match to them and tried to go forward.


"We had shots going just wide, shots just over but sometimes you
don't get the breaks and that's football.


"On occasions we were over elaborate and made the wrong decisions
so we are disappointed to be out."


Hibs had created the first chance of the match within 20 seconds
when Moroccan Abdessalam Benjelloun burst through the middle to
fire a low shot from 25-yards - which Dunfermline's Dutch
goalkeeper Dorus De Vries saved to his chest.


In the 17th minute, however, the Fife team almost took the lead.


McIntyre met Jim O'Brien's corner with a downward headed from
six-yards which was palmed back out by Hibs goalkeeper Andrew
McNeil.


Phil McGuire was first to react to the loose ball and bundled it
past McNeil only for Hibs midfielder Lewis Stevenson to head off
the line.


This chance handed Dunfermline the initiative and in the 22nd
minute on-loan Liverpool winger Adam Hammill got on the end of
Jamie McCunnie's lob into the penalty area to smash a first-time
scissor-kick from 16-yards which required McNeil to save low to
his right.


The game was now flowing end-to-end and it was Dunfermline's
captain Greg Shields who had to clear off the line after Scott
Brown had burst into the penalty area and chipped the ball past
De Vries towards goal.


Hibs again created the better chances in the second half and in
the 82nd minute Dunfermline were again required to clear off
their line to stay level.


David Murphy's corner was not properly cleared, Chris Hogg headed
back into the six-yard box and Brown's shot beat De Vries only to
be booted off the line by McCunnie.


Just as it looked as if Dunfermline would be happy to take the
game into extra- time they scored a sensational 86th minute
winner from the penalty spot.


Hammill had shown tremendous skills to turn away from Steven
Fletcher and drive into the penalty area.


Hibs centre-half Hogg decided to try and steal the ball from his
feet with a rash sliding challenge which only succeeded in
pulling the winger down and referee Craig Thomson pointed to the
penalty spot.


McIntyre stepped and showed tremendous composure to send a
delicate chip into the centre of the net as McNeil dived to his
right and take Dunfermline, who are bottom of the SPL, through to
the final on May 26.

