

Ecuador sank into political crisis Tuesday in a power struggle
over its president's reform program, as demonstrators hit the
streets and dissenting opposition deputies fled abroad from
charges of treason.


In a conflict dividing both the legislature and the judiciary, a
prosecutor ordered the arrest of 24 deputies, nearly half of the
50 who the Constitutional Tribunal, the country's highest court,
had ordered reinstated to Congress.


Outside the Congress, some 400 pro-government protestors rallied
against the expelled legislators, with police firing tear gas in
sporadic confrontations.


"The entire country is near war," said leftist party leader
Gustavo Ramirez.


The right-wing opposition deputies were sacked in March over
their refusal to go along with far-reaching constitutional
reforms promoted by President Rafael Correa.


The 24 lawmakers are accused of plotting against the state.


Eleven of them fled to Bogota late Tuesday and asked for
political asylum, Ecuadoran opposition congresswoman Gloria
Gallardo said, adding that four more of them were on the way to
the Colombian capital.


"We have come to Colombia, which is a sister-country, to ask for
protection and political asylum," said Gallardo, who arrived on a
flight from Quito together with 10 other deputies from the right-
wing PRIAN party.


According to prosecutor Elsa Moreno, the deputies were suspected
of sedition for "rising against the government, refusing to
recognize the constitution, and impeding a meeting of the
Congress."


The accusation followed Congress's dismissal of another group of
officials,  the country's nine Constitutional Tribunal justices,
after these judges reinstated the 50 lawmakers who had opposed
Correa's constitutional reforms.


The 50 were dismissed on March 7 for rejecting a court decision
backing a national referendum in favor of rewriting the country's
charter.


With the political opposition out of the way, voters then this
month approved the convention by a five-to-one margin, giving
Correa the go-ahead in his effort to revamp the legislature and
other government structures to pursue his nationalist, socialist
agenda.


But the battle opened a new political crisis for Ecuador, a
chronically unstable country that has had eight presidents in a
decade.


The crisis has set Correa on a collision course with the high
court over its move to reinstate the deputies. Correa also backed
Congress's vote Tuesday to oust the judges.


While he insisted the removal of the opposition lawmakers remain
in force, he said late Tuesday however that he opposed the arrest
order for the 24 accused of sedition.


He said that "as the one responsible for the peace of the
people," he would tell the authorities to rescind the arrest
order.


Opponents of the president claim he is following in the footsteps
of Venezuela's firebrand leftist President Hugo Chavez, who
successfully pushed for the election of a constituent assembly
packed with his supporters in 1999.


Following the April 16 referendum, Ecuadorans will later this
year be called to elect a national assembly to be tasked with
writing a new constitution.

