

Ecuador descended into political crisis in a power struggle over
its leftist president's reform drive, as demonstrators hit the
streets and dissenting opposition deputies fled abroad from
charges of treason.


In a conflict dividing both the legislature and the judiciary, a
prosecutor Tuesday ordered the arrest of 24 deputies, nearly half
of the 50 who the country's highest court had ordered reinstated
to Congress.


Outside the Congress, some 400 pro-government protestors rallied
against the expelled legislators, with police firing tear gas in
sporadic confrontations.


"The entire country is near war," said leftist party leader
Gustavo Ramirez.


The right-wing opposition deputies were sacked in March over
their refusal to go along with far-reaching constitutional
reforms promoted by President Rafael Correa.


The 24 lawmakers are accused of plotting against the state. They
were initially fired for allegedly interfering with a national
referendum to allow Correa to pursue his aim of rewriting the
constitution.


Eleven of them fled to Bogota late Tuesday and asked for
political asylum, Ecuadoran opposition congresswoman Gloria
Gallardo told the radio station RCN, adding that four more were
on the way to Colombia.


"We have come to Colombia, which is a sister-country, to ask for
protection and political asylum," said Gallardo, who arrived on a
flight from Quito together with 10 other deputies from the right-
wing PRIAN party.


According to prosecutor Elsa Moreno, the deputies were suspected
of sedition for "rising against the government, refusing to
recognize the constitution, and impeding a meeting of the
Congress."


The accusation followed Congress's dismissal of another group of
officials,  the country's nine Constitutional Tribunal justices,
after these judges reinstated the 50 lawmakers who had opposed
Correa's constitutional reforms.


The 50 were dismissed on March 7 for rejecting a court decision
backing the referendum, which if approved would allow the setting
up of a body to handle the proposed constitutional changes.


With the political opposition out of the way, voters then this
month approved the move by a five-to-one margin, giving Correa
the go-ahead in his effort to revamp the legislature and other
government structures to pursue his nationalist, socialist
agenda.


But the battle opened a new political crisis for Ecuador, a
chronically unstable country that has had eight presidents in a
decade.


The crisis has set Correa on a collision course with the
Constitutional Tribunal, or high court, over its move to
reinstate the deputies. Correa also backed Congress's vote
Tuesday to oust the judges.


Opponents of the president claim he is following in the footsteps
of Venezuela's firebrand leftist President Hugo Chavez, who
successfully pushed for the election of a constituent assembly
packed with his supporters in 1999.


Following the April 16 referendum, Ecuadorans will later this
year be called to elect a national assembly to be tasked with
writing a new constitution.


While he insisted the removal of the opposition lawmakers remain
in force, Correa said Tuesday however that he opposed the arrest
order for the 24 accused of sedition.


He said that "as the one responsible for the peace of the
people," he would tell the authorities to rescind the order.


Gallardo accused Correa of ordering their arrest warrants,
however.


"We are not living in a state of law, but in a dictatorship
presided over by Rafael Correa, who has seized all the powers of
the state," she said. She added that other targeted deputies may
seek asylum in Peru and the United States.

