

Indonesia's neighbours would take over control of its air traffic
if the sprawling archipelago's aircraft tracking system fails,
under a plan released Wednesday, officials said.


The plan for Indonesia's air traffic control system was developed
following a slew of recent plane disasters that have claimed more
than 100 lives, they said.


Two centres would assume control of air traffic in Indonesia
under the plan, in an effort to streamline the system, said
senior transport ministry official M. Nasir Usman, according to
the Detikcom news portal.


If natural disasters or mechanical faults close down both centres
-- in the capital Jakarta and Makassar in south Sulawesi -- then
Singapore, Malaysia and other neighbours would step in until the
problems were resolved, he said.


"We are preparing a contingency plan and will reach an agreement
with neighbouring countries," said Usman at a conference in
Jakarta.


Full details, including technical arrangements between the
countries and when it would take effect, have not yet been
finalised.


On New Year's Day an Adam Air jet disappeared off Indonesian
radar with 102 people on board. The air control centre in
Makassar failed to detect its last coordinates, prompting an
extensive land and sea search.


Only small pieces of the plane have been found in the ocean off
Sulawesi island. Its black box recorders, located on the ocean
floor, have not yet been recovered.


In March, a jet belonging to national carrier Garuda crash-landed
at Yogyakarta airport before bursting into flames and killing 21
people.


The air traffic initiative is one of several by the embattled
transport ministry to try to improve Indonesia's woeful air
safety record.


It was requested by the International Civil Aviation Organisation
(ICAO), a UN agency charged with improving air safety.


Officials from Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Australia and the United States attended the meeting.


"Indonesia will become the first country to implement this,"
Usman, the head of air traffic safety at the ministry, was quoted
as saying.


He could not be immediately reached for more comment.


Kyotaro Harano, a regional officer with ICAO, said the agency had
asked Indonesia to introduce the plan because of its vast
territory.


It also has a large number of international flights and was prone
to natural disasters, he said.


"If the two air control centres in Indonesia cannot function, the
effect on international flights is quite large," Harano said,
according to Detikcom.


Indonesia, a nation of 17,000 islands, depends on both its air
and sea links.

