

The Phoenix Suns overwhelmed the Los Angeles Lakers 126-98
Tuesday to take a two-games-to-none lead in their National
Basketball Association Western Conference playoff series.


Brazilian Leandro Barbosa, the newly named Sixth Man of the Year,
swamped defenders from the outset, scoring 17 of his 26 points in
the first half for the Suns.


Amare Stoudemire collected 20 points and nine rebounds for
Phoenix, who will try to stretch their advantage when the best-
of-seven first-round series continues in Los Angeles on Thursday.


Last year, the Suns took a 3-1 lead over the Lakers in the first
round but eventually needed seven games to advance.


However, the Lakers could find it harder to get back on terms
after superstar Kobe Bryant, who scored just 15 points on 5-of-13
shooting, rolled his ankle with 7:59 to play.


After a timeout, he returned to the floor but then retreated to
the locker room for further examination of his ankle with the
Suns leading 115-87 with 4:29 left.


"It's OK," Bryant said. "It's pretty stiff, but I tape that ankle
pretty high so it protected it pretty well."


Barbosa received his award before the game after he was announced
as the winner on Monday.


One day earlier, he scored 15 of his 26 points during a five-
minute stretch in the second half to lead the Suns to a 95-87
victory in the series opener.


It was more of the same on Tuesday for Barbosa, who shot 11-of-18
from the field, including 4-of-8 from the arc. The lightning-
quick Brazilian led an offensive onslaught for the Suns, who led
by as many 32 points.


The Suns swarmed the Lakers from the start, finishing a host of
fast breaks with dunks and open layups. Phoenix also dished out
30 assists.


"They did what they had to do," Bryant said. "They protected
their home court. They controlled the pace of the game. We were
never able to get our arms around the game.


"Hopefully when we go home things will change."


Shawn Marion had 18 points and 10 rebounds and Steve Nash
collected 16 and 14 assists for the Suns, who shot 54 percent
from the field, including 11-of-26 on 3-pointers.


Nash and Stoudemire - who played 26 minutes apiece - sat for most
of the fourth quarter, leading the cheers as little-used reserves
Jalen Rose, Marcus Banks, Pat Burke and Eric Piatkowski finished
the contest.

