

Japan's Honda Motor reported Wednesday a small drop in annual
profits, snapping a five-year record-breaking streak as it
battles tough competition in its home market and higher costs.


The automaker predicted a further decline in profits this year
owing to high raw material costs.


Honda posted net earnings of 592.3 billion yen (5.0 billion
dollars) for the fiscal year to March, better than its own
forecast for a 560 billion yen profit but 0.8 percent less than
the previous year's 597.0 billion.


Operating profit dropped by 2.0 percent to 851.9 billion yen
while revenue grew by roughly 12 percent to a record 11.09
trillion yen, helped by a weaker yen, the automaker said in a
statement.


Honda said the decline was mainly the result of the negative
impact of the change in its model mix, soaring raw material
costs, increased spending on research and development as well as
higher general expenses.


The absence of a one-off gain booked a year earlier from pension
related gains also weighed on Honda's bottom line, offsetting the
positive impact of higher revenue, cost reduction effects and a
weaker yen, it added.


"Even though we saw a decline in profits, sales especially in
four-wheel vehicles saw growth in North America, Asia as well as
Europe," said Honda vice president Satoshi Aoki.


Honda's automobile sales in Japan decreased by 3.4 percent in the
year to 672,000 vehicles, while overseas sales were up 10.6
percent to 2.980 million.


Honda forecast a further decline in earnings in the current
fiscal year to March 2008, when it expects net profit to fall 2.9
percent to 575 billion yen and operating profit to slide 9.6
percent to 770 billion yen.


Sales, however, are expected to grow 6.0 percent to 11.75
trillion yen but the boost to earnings will be offset by rising
raw materials costs, increased research and development spending
and capital investment, Aoki said.


The automaker said it was also basing its forecasts on the
assumption that the yen will strengthen this year against other
major currencies.


The earnings downturn at Honda follows five consecutive years of
record profits at Honda, which like other Japanese automakers has
enjoyed brisk sales in the US market even as local automakers
General Motors and Ford struggle.


For the fourth quarter alone Honda's net profit fell by 19.7
percent from a year earlier to 176.1 billion yen.


Operating profit slumped by 26.6 percent to 250.2 billion yen
while revenue increased by 9.0 percent to 3.09 trillion yen.


The results contrast with the fortunes of Japan's number one
automaker Toyota, which is expected to report later this month a
seventh consecutive year of record profits after overtaking
General Motors as the global top seller.


Nissan Motor Co., however, has forecast an 11 percent drop in net
profits in the year to March due to sluggish sales, and is
expected to unveil fresh restructuring measures when it announces
its annual results on Thursday.

