

Retired athletics champion Li Guicheng presides over one of the
jewels in the crown of China's elite sports school system, in
which children as young as six train to become Olympic champions.


Eight students from Shichahai Sports School represented China at
the 2004 Athens Olympic Games and five won gold medals, while a
bigger batch are expected to compete for glory on home soil at
next year's Beijing Games.


"There will be more of them at the 2008 Olympics," said Li, the
former 400 metre hurdles national champion, during a tour of the
school in Beijing.


"It is hard to say how many, because trials are still going on,
but it will be more than in 2004."


Aping the Soviet Union, China set up a state-backed system of
around 400 sports schools in the 1950s designed to produce
champions who would demonstrate to the world the superiority of
the socialist system over decadent western capitalism.


Diplomatic differences over Taiwan kept China out of the Olympics
until the Los Angeles Games in 1984. But since then, when the
country collected 15 gold medals, its sporting star has risen and
the country wil be challenging the United States for world
supremacy at the Beijing Games.


During the same period, China has gradually jettisoned most of
its socialist baggage and embraced pragmatism and the free market
-- except in sport, where the old system still prevails, and
schools like Shichahai are grooming future gold medallists.


"The pyramid system that was set up in the 1950s is working,"
said Li, whose school ranks inside the top 10 in the nation based
on criteria including achievement of its students at world and
Olympic competition.


"It is a four-level structure designed to capture talent from
local schools, send them to district schools, and then on to ones
like ours. From here they go to national teams."


More than 800 live-in students are looked after by 400 staff,
half of whom are sports coaches, training them in five cavernous
indoor gymnasiums in sports such as gymnastics, table tennis,
taekwondo and volleyball.


China's tough sports system epitomised by this elite school has
been criticised by athletes and experts for employing harsh
methods on young children.


Just over a year ago Britain's former Olympic rowing champion
Matthew Pinsent described a visit to the school as a "pretty
disturbing experience". He said he saw young gymnasts in pain and
one coach beating a boy gymnast.


During a visit Wednesday, girls as young as six were working hard
on beams and parallel bars but there was no evidence of harsh
treatment.


"For gymastics, you have to select kids as young as six. For
other sports, like volleyball, they come here at an older age,
say 15," said Li.


"But it is the same all over the world. People who say the
training is too tough simply don't understand the facts."


The system may be harsh but it works. The school has been a
conveyor belt for top gymnasts since Ma Yanhong won the uneven
bars title at the 1984 Olympics.


It is also considered a top school for table tennis, helping
China maintain its unrivalled world dominance.


Currently 23 young table tennis players from France, aged between
eight and 16, are undergoing a week's training at the school.


"It is tough for them but they can take it," said Damien Loiseu,
one of three French coaches accompanying the children. But it was
unsuitable for export to France, he added.


"Five hours a day of training for kids of eight years old, it
just would not work in France."


However the school said training hours were not so long.


According to the school administrator, Li Yuan, students only
train for two- and-a-half hours in the afternoon, with studies in
the morning and homework in the evening.

