

Australia coach John Buchanan, who is quitting at the end of the
World Cup, believes that Ricky Ponting's side has yet to fulfill
its true potential.


The double defending world champions, who were taking on South
Africa in the semi-finals here on Wednesday, are the top-ranked
side in the world, they reclaimed the Ashes with a 5-0 drubbing
of England and went into the last four clash with a record of
nine wins in nine games in the Caribbean.


"I was asked what more there was to achieve after the last World
Cup and I said there was a lot more," said Buchanan.


"I don't think we'd reached our potential and I still think
that's the case.


"As soon as a team or an individual believes we're at our peak
then we're at our most vulnerable.


"I think all the players feel that and I think it's part of us
being sought to be challenged, coaches included - as soon as you
feel you can't be challenged then it's time to move on."


Buchanan is moving on at the end of the World Cup to be succeeded
by Tim Nielsen but Ponting shows no sign of flagging combining
the pressures of captaincy with fluency at the crease.


Ahead of Wednesday's match, Ponting had plundered 480 runs at an
average of 80 and he said he has been stunned over how
comfortably his team had reached the semi-finals.


It was particularly pleasing after many critics had written off
his team when they arrived in the West Indies having lost back-
to-back series finals against England and New Zealand.


"It has been a little different feel to it from the last World
Cup," said Ponting who also captained the 2003 title-winning team
in South Africa.


"At different times through 2003 we were really challenged and
put under pressure. We got ourselves a fair way behind in some
games but managed to claw our way back to a couple of tight wins.


"This time around we've played a brand of cricket from the first
ball of every game that hasn't allowed our opposition into the
game whatsoever.


"We can get better, absolutely."

