

Just as Internet and iPod changed the music world forever,
digital technology is the "big bang" for new-age television,
giving people freedom to watch what they want, when they want and
how they want.


With so many new spaces and places opening, "programmes can be
available wherever you are -- and available on demand," Jana
Bennett who heads up the mighty British broadcaster BBC told a
packed conference here.


Bennett's message was repeated many times by other top-flight
speakers from the worlds of broadcasting, Internet, mobile phone,
and advertising attending this year's influential MIPTV/MILIA
audiovisual and digital entertainment trade show.


Traditional broadcasting is finally and firmly morphing, they
said, thanks to the new on-demand telly era that will let viewers
call up whatever programmes they want to watch at any time of day
or night.


While that may be worrisome for mainstream broadcasters worldwide
tied into broadcasting schedules, the revolution whipping through
the audiovisual entertainment world will delight many viewers.


People on the move will increasingly be able to watch real-time
live broadcast TV on their mobile phones.


While South Korea and Japan are way ahead of the rest of the
world on this, broadcast TV services for mobile phones have also
been launched in Italy and France, and the Middle East and India
are following suit.


A new virtual world for telly addicts will also be coming onto
Internet screens worldwide soon following a deal announced here
last week between reality TV giant Endemol and interactive gaming
leader Electronic Arts.


Inspired by the runaway success of virtual online worlds, Second
Life and South Korea's Cyworld, the new offering -- dubbed
Virtual Me -- will enable users "to become a star in the virtual
world and even take part in their favourite TV shows like Big
Brother," Endemol top exec Peter Bazalgette said.


Endemol's Virtual Me will let fans create their own personal
cyber-clone, or avatar, which can take part in a web-based
virtual Big Brother as well as other hit shows like Fear Factor
that will launch shortly on the Internet.


Viewing is also being revolutionised by the mushrooming number of
television providers.


There are already over 30 Internet TV Protocol Television (IPTV)
services in Europe alone, which like cable and satellite
services, offer hundreds of channels ranging from sport to food,
TV soaps and films.


IPTV, though, will appeal to people on the move. Delivered
through secure Internet connections, it can be viewed on a number
of devices, including PCs, mobile phones and game consoles.


The IPTV market could be huge and recent estimates suggest that
there will be 16.7 million IPTV subscribers by 2010 in Europe.


The newest boys on the TV block who attracted the biggest
interest at the MIPTV/MILIA trade show though were peer-to-peer
(P2P) Internet TV pioneers, Babelgum and Joost.


Babelgum chief executive Erik Lumer compared his new P2P service
to sitting in a rocking chair. "By combining the best of TV with
the power of the Internet, you get a rocking chair experience --
you can sit back and get immersed in the viewing experience and
then lean forward to interact with the experience."


Unlike other TV services though, P2P and Internet TV are
delivered over the open, public Internet, raising questions over
just how safe an environment it will be and whether it can offer
high-quality viewing.


With all these new players popping up, broadcasters were at pains
to emphasise that they were adapting to the new media landscape.


Gerhard Zeiler described how his huge European broadcasting
group, RTL, was fragmenting into lots of small and mid-sized
channels that would have something for everyone in the family.


New media platforms will be also be positive for traditional
broadcasters, he believes.


"Platforms like VOD (video-on-demand), mobile and IPTV are not
competition. They are opportunities for us to distribute our
content and brands to as wide an audience as possible," stressed
Zeiler.


Many other broadcasters are also fighting back by launching their
own digital media offerings.


At the forefront of the digital drive is Britain's BBC.


The corporation announced here last week that it plans to open up
its vast archive of video and audio for download from the BBC's
website.


Other plans include launching a proposed iPlayer service that
will offer catch- up TV via the Web and cable TV.


This will mean viewers can view programmes they have missed over
the previous seven days on their computer. But once watched, the
show will be deleted automatically from their computer,
preventing them from being copied.

