

Driven away by Nicolas Sarkozy's tough talk, many French centrist
voters who could sway the presidential run-off plan to back
Segolene Royal as "the lesser of two evils", according to the
buzz on Internet chatrooms.


Feverish speculation has gripped France over how the 6.8 million
people who backed the defeated centrist Francois Bayrou on Sunday
will vote in the May 6 duel between the Socialist Royal and the
right-winger Sarkozy.


Experts say Bayrou's supporters break into four groups: hard-and-
fast centrists, right-wingers put off by Sarkozy's tough talk,
left-wingers unconvinced by Royal and protest voters
disillusioned with politics.


A majority were expected to swing behind the right-wing former
interior minister in round two, since Bayrou's small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) has long been allied with the right.


But posts in the online chatrooms of the UDF, where scores of
centrist voters have logged on to debate their next step, confirm
poll findings that suggest strong resistance to Sarkozy.


According to a poll by SOFRES, only a quarter of Bayrou voters
plan to transfer allegiance to the right-winger compared to 46
percent for Royal.


A small minority on the UDF forum said they tipped towards
Sarkozy as a better chance for economic reform.


"For me it'll be Sarkozy," one of them wrote under the pseudonym
Fertil. "Anything but the mammoths of the Socialist Party" (PS).


"With Sarkozy we'll have five years to agree or not with his
reforms -- but at least there will be reforms, whereas with the
PS all we'll have to denounce is deadly immobility."


"It's a cruel dilemma," said Stanouch. "I can't relate to either
of the candidates' visions. Royal has a new, dynamic style and
her institutional reforms are interesting -- but on the
economy..."


"And that's what I think will make me tip towards Sarkozy, though
it'll hurt me to do it."


But many others refused to make their choice based on economic
grounds alone, worrying that Sarkozy's tough-talking style as
interior minister was the sign of a dangerously authoritarian
streak.


Though scathing about Royal's campaign style and firmly left-wing
programme, they planned to back her as "the lesser of two evils."


"When Nicolas and his cronies talk, I can hear the sound of boots
crunching. I don't like it at all and I'm not sure democracy will
survive with such a cynic in power," wrote Laurent, from Nantes
in western France.


"At least with the airhead in a Chanel suit we can limit the
damage and prepare for the future."


"I will vote Royal -- at the risk of having to demonstrate
against her policies," agreed D'Avalie Noire. "Because at least
with her I'll still have the freedom to demonstrate. With
Sarkozy, I'll go straight on police file and I'd worry about
losing my job."


Ouroboros saw the vote as "a choice between danger and the status
quo. Segolene Royal is clearly the lesser evil. At worst she will
carry on in the tradition of French politics: little change, no
progress."


"Nicolas Sarkozy has surpassed all the candidates in terms of
populism. He has no project for society, none at all!"


Reacting to Royal's calls for a debate with the centrist leader
ahead of round two, some, like Bip, were hoping "Royal will
change the course of history by accepting a true alliance around
common themes."


"Don't ask me to say I think Royal is wonderful -- I don't -- but
since she HAS to pull people together, she will," said Coalition.


Finally, there are those who cannot bring themselves to back
either candidate -- who make up some 29 percent of round one
centrist voters according to SOFRES.


"I can't vote for Sarkozy -- I find his ideas repulsive. But
really nothing would make me vote for Royal either," wrote
Zapataz.


"Sarkozy's methods are dangerous for society. But Sego is just as
dangerous for her lack of understanding of the economy. With her
we can kiss goodbye to the middle classes and small
entrepreneurs," agreed SN2.


"I will vote blank -- neither left nor right -- so that the ideas
of the centre develop in future," wrote Knoop.


Bayrou, a 55-year-old former education minister who campaigned
for an end to the left-right divide, has so far refused to give
voting instructions for round two, despite overtures from both
Royal and Sarkozy.

