

South Koreans voted Wednesday in the last parliamentary by-
elections before this year's presidential poll, with the outcome
likely to help shape political alliances for the December vote.


The polling is for three National Assembly seats, six local
administrative chiefs and 37 local assembly members, the National
Election Commission said.


With almost eight months to go, the two presidential front-
runners are both from the conservative Grand National Party
(GNP), according to opinion polls.


Lee Myung-Bak, a former Seoul mayor, has some 40 percent support
in most polls, followed by Park Geun-Hye, daughter of former
president Park Chung-Hee, with 20 percent.


The party will hold a convention this summer to pick its
candidate.


Rival left-leaning parties, including the pro-government Uri and
its former ally the Democratic Party, have not yet decided on
likely presidential candidates.


Uri, formerly the party of President Roh Moo-Hyun, has been hit
by defections. Some members want it to disband and form a new
grouping before December.


The three parliamentary seats are in the central city of Daejeon,
in Hwaseong city near Seoul, and in Muan-Shinan district in the
southern province of South Jeolla.


The GNP, the largest parliamentary party after 32 lawmakers
bolted from Uri, has won landslide victories in all five by-
elections and the one local election since 2004.


But news reports said things will be different this time.


Commentators see the GNP as leading in Hwaseong but trailing the
People First Party (PFP) in Daejeon and behind the Democratic
Party (DP) in Muan-Shinan in South Jeolla, the DP's power base.


The PFP is a minor centrist party whose support base is in
Daejeon.


The Democratic Party is fielding Kim Hong-Up, a son of ex-
president Kim Dae- Jung, in Muan-Shinan. Uri is not standing in
this constituency and is backing Hong-Up.


Hong-Up has said that if elected, he will try to unite centrists
and reformists to field a single candidate against the GNP in
December.


The Roh administration and the Uri Party have faced low
popularity amid a protracted economic slowdown and a perceived
lack of leadership, although Roh's ratings improved after he
pushed through a free trade agreement with the United States.

