

Irish cuesman Ken Doherty and Welshman Mark WIlliams became the
latest former world champions to fall in the first round of the
snooker world championships here on Tuesday as he went out 10
frames to 7 to debutant Mark Allen.


Doherty, champion in 1997 and a finalist on two other occasions,
was later joined in the out tray by another former champion as
two-time titleholder Williams was beaten in a thriller 10-9 by
two-time semi-finalist Joe Swail, like Allen from Northern
Ireland.


Another former champion Stephen Hendry was also in danger of
exiting as he will go into the second session on Wednesday 5-4
behind Englishman David Gilbert.


Allen, 21 and who had battled through the qualifiers to get to
this stage, had to hold his nerve as having started the second
session 6-3 to the good he saw a revival from Doherty which saw
them tied at 7-7.


Doherty, who also lost the opportunity to grab the world number
one spot for next season, looked to be in unstoppable form as he
made the highest break of the tournament so far, 135, to make it
7-7.


However Allen was ice cool and refused to be denied his moment of
glory as he rattled off the next three frames to move into the
second round while Doherty joined Steve Davis and Graeme Dott as
former world champions to have exited here in the first round.


Allen said the victory was the biggest of his career.


"I beat Steve Davis and John Higgins in an invitation event last
year but to beat Ken Doherty in the best of 19 is definitely my
best win," said Allen.


"I was really nervous early on. I can see why people come here
and crumble.


"Everyone was expecting Ken to win, but being 6-3 up everyone
expected me to lead from the front and win the match.


"It's a different sort of pressure and I have to admit I didn't
handle it very well to start with."


Meanwhile Doherty admitted he only had himself to blame.


"I'm gutted. I didn't play well - it's hard to swallow," said the
37-year-old.


"I thought I did everything right with my preparations but he
played superbly well. He was very hard to contain and I did not
play as well as I can.


"When you practice for six or seven hours a day it's so
frustrating you start to wonder whether it's worth it."


But Doherty insisted he had no plans to quit the sport.


"Of course I'll carry on - it's not that desperate," he said.


Swail ensured a miserable end to Williams' already desperate
season as he fought back from an earlier 4-0 deficit to level at
5-5 and even when the Welshman went ahead 6-5 the Ulsterman
replied with an outstanding 114 break.


Williams - whose frustration showed as he on several occasions
held hios head in his hands - still looked to be in pole position
as he led 9-8 but crucial misses allowed Swail back to level and
then he rounded off a great comeback with a break of 64 in the
decider to set up a second round clash with Matthew Stevens.

