

South Korean car giant Hyundai Motor was launching construction
on Wednesday of its first car plant in Europe in a major new
drive to boost its low sales profile on the continent.


Chung Mong-Koo, the head of Hyundai which is the world's sixth-
biggest car maker, was to launch work on the 1.0-billion-euro
(1.36-billion-dollar) investment.


Chung had already marked on Tuesday the official launch of a
factory now in operation by sister company Kia a short distance
away over the border in Slovakia.


The two ventures should help Hyundai take on established European
car giants by boosting its presence and image in Europe where it
is still struggling to win a substantial share of the market and
develop a dealership network, auto sector analysts say.


Hyundai has flagged up that ambition by announcing it will
produce its mainstream i30 family hatchback at the Nosovice
plant, to be followed up by an an MPV car-van hybrid.


Kia is already producing a family car, aimed at competing with
the Golf model by leading European car maker Volkswagen, and with
Peugeot's 307 car, at its factory at Zilina in Slovakia.
Production by the plant is due to reach 150,000 vehicles by
December and eventually hit 300,000 cars a year.


The Czech plant should also produce 300,000 cars a year when full
output is achieved in 2011.


With the twin plants, the South Korean giant has recognised that
a European production presence is vital for unlocking a market
where it has struggled to gain credibility and achieve
significant penetration so far, according to Marc- Rene Tonn, an
auto sector analyst with the German-based bank, MM Warburg.


Hyundai's European market share currently hovers just under 2.0
percent and Kia's at around 1.5 percent.


The developing cluster of Czech car producers has encouraged auto
industry subcontractors to flood into the region, facilitating
the arrival of newcomers.


But the downside facing Hyundai is fast accelerating wages in
what is starting to look like an overcrowded sector.


Hyundai's Czech debut has fired up fears from the region's
biggest carmaker, Skoda Auto, part of the Volkswagen Group, and
the Franco-Japanese joint venture, Toyota Peugeot Citroen
Automobile of a local skills shortage with rival producers
driving up wages in their bid to hang onto workers.


The South Korean producer denies it is seeking to poach its
rivals' workforce, arguing that it can recruit in the high
unemployment industrial rustbelt around its new plant, far away
from the other manufacturers' central Czech bases.


Although Hyundia's eventual car output will put the Czech
Republic up alongside Italy as a top European auto producer, the
centre-right Czech government is already looking to redirect the
local economy.


It already envisages redrawing its subsidy rules which helped
land the record Hyundai investment so that more higher paid,
higher skilled research jobs will be lured in the future.

