

Astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, who has spent his career
pondering the nature of gravity from a wheelchair, is set to
experience weightlessness during a "vomit comet" flight in
Florida Thursday.


The idea is to give "the world's expert on gravity the
opportunity to experience zero gravity" said Peter Diamandis the
chief executive of the Zero Gravity Corporation that flies the
thrill ride.


Hawking, 65, the British author of the blockbuster "A Brief
History of Time," will be surrounded by a medical team on the
padded plane as it flies a roller- coaster trajectory to produce
periods of weightlessness.


The Cambridge professor, who is almost entirely paralyzed, hopes
his brief, weightless escape from his wheelchair will eventually
lead to a 2009 voyage into outer space.


Hawking will get a free ride, according to the private company
that usually charges thrill-seekers 3,500 dollars for a spin on G
-Force-One, also known as the vomit comet.


The flight on a modified 35-passenger Boeing 727-200 will take
off and land at NASA's space shuttle landing facility at Kennedy
Space Center, near Cape Canaveral, Florida.


Specially trained pilots will take the plane up at a 45-degree
angle to about 10,000 meters (33,000 feet) before plunging to
2,500 meters (8,000 feet) to give the passengers about 30 seconds
of gravity-free flying.


The aircraft usually undertakes these maneuvers a dozen times,
providing a total of about five minutes in different levels of
diminished gravity -- that of Mars, one-third the gravity of
Earth; of the moon, with one-sixth Earth's gravity, and then the
zero-gravity level of space.


"As someone who has studied gravity and black holes all of my
life, I am excited to experience, first-hand, weightlessness and
a zero-gravity environment," Hawking said in a statement when he
initially announced his intention to take the flight.


The commercial flights, which typically last 90 minutes, are
similar to those the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA) has conducted for 40 years to train
astronauts.


Zero G says the weightlessness experienced inside the plane is
similar to a free fall in sky diving.


"In this case however, the body of the aircraft surrounds you and
protects you from the on-rushing wind. At the end of the free-
fall period, the aircraft also scoops you up and carries you back
up to the top of the arc to begin the free fall process again."


The company says it has conducted more than 100 weightlessness
flights since its 2004 launch, flying 2,500 passengers, including
celebrities and children as young as 12.


On his 65th birthday in January, Hawking said he wanted to fly
into space in 2009 aboard the Virgin Galactic spacecraft being
developed by British entrepreneur Richard Branson for commercial
suborbital flights.


The renowned cosmologist says he wants to encourage public
interest in space flight, which he believes is is critical to the
future of humanity.


Hawking, who is Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge
University -- a post once held by Sir Isaac Newton --  suffers
from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's
Disease.


He was diagnosed with the muscle-wasting motor neuron disease at
the age of 22. He is in a wheelchair and speaks with the aid of a
computer and voice synthesizer.


His work has centered on theoretical cosmology and quantum
gravity, looking at the nature of such subjects as space-time,
the "Big Bang" theory and black holes.

