

NATO foreign ministers led by US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice will endeavour Thursday to impress upon Russia the size of
the missile threat posed to Europe by a "rogue state" like Iran.


At informal talks in the Norwegian capital Oslo, Rice will argue
that Washington must quickly expand its defence shield to be able
to counter a future attack by ballistic missiles, possibly with
nuclear warheads.


"Where there is a divergence is how quickly the Iranians could
acquire the ability to fly further, faster and more reliably," a
senior US official said ahead of the meeting.


"We will continue to talk to Russia about why we come to the
analysis that we come to, but we don't think we have the luxury
of waiting and seeing," the official said.


The United States announced in January plans to extend its shield
into Europe, with 10 non-explosive interceptors installed in
Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, linked to an early
warning system probably in the Caucasus.


Russia, increasingly assertive in an election year, is rankled by
its former Cold War foe basing military hardware in former Soviet
satellite states, and claims the move, apart from posing a
danger, could start a new arms race.


Despite a US offer of increased military cooperation and to share
early warning data, Moscow is concerned that the shield might
grow in the future.


"We know from experience that when you have a system it keeps
developing, it cannot stop," Russia's ambassador to NATO,
Konstantin Totsky, warned last week.


While Russia does see Iran as a potential security problem it
does not exactly share the US analysis of what the Islamic
republic's missile capabilities are now, not to mention what they
might be in a decade.


"What we see in the American offer are several aims which do not
address the principal, that is a joint analysis of the threat,"
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Tuesday.


But NATO's 26 member countries agreed last week that Iran, and to
a lesser extent North Korea, do indeed pose a potential missile
threat to Europe.


And Washington has set a tight schedule for building the new
installations, when talks with the Poles and Czechs have been
completed, and wants the project started before US President
George W. Bush steps down late next year.


"Even if we were successful in meeting our timeline, finishing
our bilateral negotiations relatively quickly the system wouldn't
be completely operational before 2013," the US official said,
explaining the apparent haste.


To overcome the objections of Russia, which the NATO allies are
adamant will not be allowed to veto the project, the US has
agreed to set up a "bilateral working group" of experts to allay
fears that the shield might grow.


"As we go forward with this expert group I am quite confident
that we will be able to give Russia the kind of reassurances that
will make her comfortable with regard to future, potential
breakout concerns," the official said.


Within the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation differences also
persist over the US shield, notably on the fact that it would not
cover members like Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey and the
need to consult more with Russia.


In an effort to provide broader coverage, the alliance is
studying whether it could "bolt on" its own theatre missile
defences -- a short to medium range system normally used to
protect troops and still being tested -- to the shield.

