

Wrapped in white blankets against the chill air at an all-night
vigil, Eritrean Orthodox monks sway slowly as they chant.


The community of around 200 men lead an austere life hardly
changed since the Debre Bizen monastery was founded some 650
years ago. They keep a low profile in a country where religion is
a delicate matter.


"Life here is simple," said one monk staring at clouds, silver in
the moonlight, floating far below the community's scattered
collection of simple stone dormitories.


The site, which lies east of the capital Asmara on a rocky peak
2,400 metres (7,920 feet) high, can be reached only by a
breathtaking two-hour climb up narrow and twisting paths.


"We devote our time to prayer, to God. We are kept busy with
that, we are happy and are at peace," he said.


The government says it wants to keep national unity in this
country of about 4.2 million, split equally between Muslims and
Christians, and people are reluctant to talk about religion --
even at this remote outpost.


But human rights groups and opposition reports say all is not
well in the ancient Church, which was established in Eritrea in
the fourth century.


Patriarch Abune Antonios, named the Church's leader in 2004, was
removed from his post in January last year.


The human rights group Amnesty International attributes his
removal to his criticism of alleged state interference in church
activities, including a crackdown on several evangelical
Christian movements popular with some young Eritreans.


But the government dismissed the allegations, saying it was an
internal Church matter.


Eritrea has reacted angrily to human rights organisations, which
regularly accuse authorities here of religious persecution
particularly against unregistered evangelical congregations.


A US State Department report last month branded Eritrea as a
"country of particular concern" over the "government's continuing
severe violation of religious freedom," including what it said
were the arrests of hundreds of worshippers.


Asmara denounces such reports as "fabrications" and "childish
plots by colonialists" using religious issues to "create division
and conflict" in a bid to weaken the country.


The information ministry recently singled out Washington in a
caustic editorial, posted on the ministry's website, saying "the
US's daily pretentious cry for religious freedom is nothing but a
means to establish political domination and subordination by
creating division among peoples..."


The ministry also slammed what it said was a bid "to defile
religion by using it as a political tool to satisfy one's own
gluttony."


Eritrean Information Minister Ali Abdu himself angrily dismissed
claims last December that the government had wrested financial
control away from the Church as "rubbish."


He rejected a US State Department report that Church offerings
now go into a state-controlled fund -- from which the priests'
salaries are then paid -- and that Church leaders must now
perform military and national service, from which they were
formerly exempt.


Amnesty meanwhile says that Abune, still recognised as the
legitimate Church head by the Coptic Orthodox headquarters in the
Egyptian city of Alexandria, has been held under house arrest
since January. A recent statement by the human rights watchdog
expressed concern about the health of 79-year-old cleric.


This followed a statement posted on an opposition website in
February charging that three security officers and two priests
had forcibly stripped Abune of his chain and sceptre, symbols of
his spiritual authority. The statement was allegedly signed by
monks, priests and deacons of the Orthodox Church.


"We have been following the sad developments in our Church and
the suffering of His Holiness for the sake of his faith and the
Church he loves so much," it read.


The patriarch's failure to pronounce the Easter benediction
earlier this month on the most solemn day in the Church calendar
raised eyebrows. The blessing was given instead by Abune
Dioskoros, whom the state-run media described as a "senior
religious leader."


In the quiet of Debre Bizen, such earthly concerns seem far away
and monks insist they know nothing about the allegations.


"I don't want to talk about that, I don't know anything about
it," said a young novice nervously, carrying a Bible in a cloth
bag by his side.


Prayer dominates life in the monastery, which lies above the town
of Nefasit, 20 kilometres (12 miles) east of Asmara, and is
accessible only to men.


In a small dining room lined with portraits of past spiritual
leaders, monks preparing a simple supper look forward to the
future.


"Eritrea had to suffer for many years in the fight to be free,"
said one monk laying out the traditional injera, a sour flat
bread, on a communal plate.


"There was much hardship, but the monastery never closed. Life is
still not easy, but the church goes on."

