

Embattled World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz is clinging tightly
to his post at the global development lender despite intense
pressure over his leadership and alleged favoritism for his
girlfriend.


In an email Tuesday to bank employees and seen by AFP, Wolfowitz
assured that he was studying "major changes in the way my office
and the senior management team work."


The message followed a meeting Monday between Wolfowitz and the
bank's senior managers, some of whom had called for his
resignation days earlier over the accusation that he had
personally sought a favorable job and generous salary package for
his companion, bank official Shaha Riza.


The revelation that Wolfowitz ordered a salary worth nearly
200,000 dollars for Riza in 2005 left him open to accusations of
hypocrisy as he steers a controversial campaign against
corruption in the bank's lending.


Despite documents that have demonstrated his intervention in
Riza's compensation, Wolfowitz has steadfastly refused to step
down, and instead hired a top defense lawyer, Robert Bennett, to
represent him as the bank reviews his actions.


Bennett is a former US federal prosecutor who acted for ex-
president Bill Clinton in a sexual harassment case against him in
1998.


The White House has staunchly backed Wolfowitz as well, but more
than 40 senior former World Bank officials called for his
resignation in a letter to a newspaper Monday.


Wolfowitz confirmed in the email that Monday's discussions took
place, writing that "the vice presidents have been candid in
their feedback to me on the challenges facing the bank and I
appreciate this."


"I also appreciate that they intend to maintain focus on our work
program and continue to function as a group to support the
effectiveness and functioning of the institution," he said.


A neo-conservative ideologue who arrived at the bank in June 2005
from his previous job as US deputy secretary of defense -- in
which he was a key architect of the Iraq war -- Wolfowitz, 63,
has provoked ire among many World Bank employees since he took
the helm there.


Some of the bank's top leaders, representing its member states,
have taken advantage of the current scandal to mount an assault
on Wolfowitz's policies, especially in the way the bank fights
poverty.


They have taken aim at Wolfowitz allies in the bank like Juan
Jose Daboub, the former El Salvador finance minister who
Wolfowitz named as one of two bank managing directors in 2006,
next to New Zealander Graeme Wheeler, one of those who has called
for Wolfowitz's resignation.


Daboub has been singled out for repressing references to family
planning programs and contraception in a new bank report on world
health, a stance more in tune with the US administration of
President George W. Bush than traditional bank policies.


The bank's chief scientist Robert taylor meanwhile told the
Financial Times that Daboub also tried to water down references
to climate change in an environmental strategy paper presented by
the bank in September 2006, though he believed Wolfowitz knew
nothing about this attempt.


The family planning report was supposed to be reviewed Tuesday by
the bank's 24 directors but faced a backlash by European
representatives who forced it off the agenda.


In a letter dated April 19, the directors from France, Germany,
Norway and Belgium insisted on an endorsement of family planning
programs.


Arguing against them was US executive director Eli Whitney
Debevoise, a lawyer specializing in finance and trade named to
the post only several weeks ago.


Bank sources speaking anonymously said Debevoise has no
experience in development and that his main role appeared to be
to defend the position of Wolfowitz.


According to the same sources, the division between the United
States and the Europeans on the Board of Directors could prolong
the crisis over Wolfowitz's leadership, with the board too
divided to fire the president.

