

Fifty years after her voice charmed America, Edith Piaf is out to
woo the United States once more.


A critically acclaimed film biography about the tragic French
singer's life, "La Vie En Rose" opens in America later this year
and is already tipped by US film reviewers as a potential Oscar-
winner.


Piaf, who died of cancer in 1963 aged 47, enjoyed huge popularity
during the 1950s in the United States, where she appeared on the
long-running "Ed Sullivan Show" eight times and played Carnegie
Hall twice.


But the legendary chanteuse's legacy in America has faded since
her death and it remains to be seen whether Olivier Dahan's film,
starring Marion Cotillard as Piaf, will revive interest in the
singer.


Tickets for Los Angeles screenings of "La Vie En Rose" (released
as "La Mome" in France) were snapped up by cinema-goers at the
French film festival, City of Light-City of Angels (COL-COA).


"People reserved tickets three weeks in advance and we were sold
out 10 days before," said festival director Francois Truffart,
saying that COL-COA had arranged another screening of the film to
meet demand.


The film's success will ultimately be measured against rival
French films such as "Amelie of Montmartre" and "A Very Long
Engagement."


Dahan shied away from making predictions about the box-office
success of "La Vie En Rose," hoping simply that "people will see
the film," which generated five million ticket sales at French
theaters.


However Los Angeles gossip columnist Joel Stratte-McClure, a
former France correspondent for People magazine, doubted Piaf's
appeal would endure.


"For people of my generation Edith Piaf is already yesterday's
news," said the 58-year-old.


Los Angeles-based French film producer Pascal Vaguelsy, who won
an Oscar in February for his short film "West Bank Story," said
"La Vie En Rose" must reach beyond big-city audiences to find
box-office success.


"The potential audience for French cinema in the United States is
50,000 cinema- goers for the big cities, New York, Chicago, Los
Angeles and San Francisco," Vaguelsy said.


Truffart, however, warned against underestimating a possible
"Piaf effect." "She was an extremely famous artist in the United
States," he said.


Cotillard's startling performance in the lead role would also be
crucial, Truffart said. "For American audiences, the performance
is everything. And they have been completely blown away so far,"
Truffart told AFP.


Cotillard meanwhile said Piaf's low profile among younger
generations would necessarily dilute the film's appeal.


"I don't think you have to know something to discover what she
was," Cotillard said. "I think that her talent, her passion and
her emotions speak for themselves."


Although few critics are betting on Piaf to outshine the most
successful French film in box-office history -- last year's
documentary, "March of the Penguins," which netted 77 million
dollars -- Truffart believes "La Vie En Rose" could rival the 33
million earned by "Amelie."


"If promotion and word of mouth function, 'La Vie En Rose' can
exceed far beyond what a foreign film in the United States does
normally" Truffart said.


"'Amelie' and 'La Vie En Rose' both correspond to how Americans
like to view France and Europe. The potential is large," he
added.

