

US President George W. Bush said Tuesday that Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice might have bilateral talks with her Iranian
counterpart at a conference on Iraq next month in Egypt.


But he indicated that there would be no one-to-one talks outside
such a context or discussions about Tehran's nuclear program,
which Washington charges is cover for an atomic weapons program
despite the Islamic republic's denials.


Asked in an interview with PBS television whether Rice might have
"bilateral conversations" in Egypt with Iranian Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki, Bush replied: "They could, they could."


"I'm more than happy to send our representatives to a regional
conference, all aiming at helping the Iraq government gain
credibility in the international community," he said.


"What I'm not willing to do is sit down bilaterally with the
Iranians."


Tehran has still to confirm its attendance at the conference of
ministers from the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council, the Group of Eight and Iraq's neighbors in Sharm el-
Sheikh on May 3 and 4.


The United States also accuses Iran -- which Bush has lumped in
an "axis of evil" with North Korea and Saddam Hussein's Iraq --
of aiding insurgents who target US-led forces and Iraqis.


"The message, of course, is going to be, you know: 'Don't send
weapons in that will end up hurting our troops, and help this
young democracy survive,' That's the message of Condi to the
Iranians," said Bush.


The Egypt conference will aim to try to find ways to end Iraq's
bloodshed by mobilizing foreign powers in support of Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government and by isolating extremist
factions.


Iran -- which the United States accuses of sponsoring violent
factions fighting in its neighbor -- has demanded the release of
five Iranian officials held in Iraq by US forces on suspicion of
weapons smuggling.


Turning to the dispute over Tehran's atomic program, Bush told
PBS he would "seriously consider" bilateral talks "if I thought
sitting down with the Iranians would -- in a bilateral context --
would end up causing them not to have a nuclear weapons.


"I don't believe a discussion with Iran alone, and at this moment
in time, would yield the result we want," the US president said.


"I feel confident that a more effective message to the Iranians
is one in which the United States is a part of a chorus, as
opposed to singing solo," said Bush.

