

Some 400 North Korean refugees who fled to Thailand have launched
a hunger strike to protest alleged delays in their resettlement
in South Korea, an activist group and officials said Wednesday.


But the group said three teenage defectors detained in Laos, who
had feared possible repatriation to their homeland and harsh
punishment, have been transferred to the South Korean embassy in
the Lao capital Vientiane.


"Some 100 male and 314 female North Korean defectors started a
hunger strike (in Thailand) Tuesday evening," Lee Ho-Taeg,
secretary general of the International Campaign to Block the
Repatriation of North Korean Refugees, told AFP.


"They are angry at extended delays in bringing them to the
South," he said, adding there were unconfirmed reports that the
South Korean government refused to grant them air tickets.


He said the North Koreans, who have been confined for up to three
months to a detention centre in Bangkok, face harsh living
conditions.


"About 300 women are held in the facility, which is barely enough
for 100 people. There is only one toilet and more than 300 women
have to share it," he said.


Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon confirmed the hunger strike
without giving a number, and said Seoul had been in negotiations
with Bangkok to "resolve the issue smoothly." He declined to give
details.


Lee's group also said the three teenagers in Laos have been
released and handed over to Seoul's embassy after being held in
custody for more than five months for illegal entry.


Song refused to comment on the three.


They have been identified as Choi Hyang, 13, and her 12-year-old
brother Choi Hyok, who lost their mother in 1999 and came to
China in 2002.


The third one is 17-year-old Choi Hyang-Mi, who arrived in China
in 2001 with her mother but was parted from her after the mother
married a Chinese man, Lee's group said.


"We have come this far in search of freedom. We are unfortunate
children who may die just because we wanted freedom," wrote Choi
Hyang in an appeal for help released by the Japanese group Life
Funds for North Korean Refugees.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans, fleeing hunger or repression
in the hardline communist state, have travelled across the border
to China in recent years.


China has an agreement with its ally North Korea to repatriate
them as economic migrants, a policy strongly criticised by
refugee aid groups. The refugees often travel on to third
countries like Mongolia or Thailand in hopes of winning eventual
resettlement in South Korea.


But South Korean diplomats in the past have been accused by
refugee groups of being unhelpful to the refugees, in order to
avoid provoking Pyongyang.


Many are helped by rights organisations linked with Protestant
churches in South Korea.


The number of northerners who had made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 Korean war topped the 10,000 mark in
February.


Estimates of the number hiding out in northeast China range from
tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.


Human Rights Watch last month said North Korea has toughened its
punishments for people caught trying to flee -- including longer
prison terms during which they face beatings and starvation.

