

Foreign investors in Latvia are feeling a double sting from the
massive worker outflow from the Baltic state, which is creating a
shortage of skilled labour and pressure for higher pay, Belgian
businessmen told a forum here Tuesday.


"We started our business in Latvia 13 years ago and did well, but
since the country joined the EU, we have been experiencing a
growing shortage of workers," Alain Maenhout, area manager for
Belgian roofing company Imperbel, told AFP.


Maenhout was representing one of some 20 Belgian companies which
had travelled to Latvia with King Albert II, who was paying the
first visit by a Belgian monarch to the Baltic state, an EU
member since 2004.


The company representatives and the king attended an economic
forum Tuesday with their Latvian counterparts and Latvian
President Vaira Vike-Freiberga.


Several speakers at the forum, including chief executives from
logistics, transport and manufacturing companies, cited the
labour shortage as a key challenge facing businesses in Latvia.


"Not only the Belgians, but investors from other countries have
mentioned the problem of worker deficit," Zane Zeibote, the
Latvian president's economic adviser, told AFP.


"When international companies started doing business in Latvia,
we were perceived as a country of cheap labour, but that has
changed now," Zeibote said, adding that Latvia retained an edge
over Asian sources of cheap labour because of its proximity to
Europe and the skills of its workforce.


"We are not worried about losing competitiveness. We are closer
to Europe than China and India, and our labour is more efficient
when it comes to complicated operations."


Jobs tend to be vacated every two to three years as more workers
join the wave of migration to countries like Norway, Sweden,
Britain and Ireland, where pay is higher than in Latvia, Maenhout
said.


Interbel tackled that problem by increasing what it pays its
workers in Latvia.


"We only raised a bit, but it did a lot to motivate people,"
Maenhout said.


"By training new workers and paying slightly higher wages, the
worker deficit can be overcome. The economy will grow and the
workers will stay here, instead of going abroad," he added.


Tens of thousands of Latvia's 2.3 million inhabitants have left
the Baltic state since EU accession in 2004 to work abroad.


A recent study by the University of Latvia showed that around
86,000 Latvians, or around 10 percent of the workforce, work
abroad.


Many are driven westward in search for higher wages. Latvia's
minimum wage of 120 lats a month (170 euros, 230 dollars) is one
of the lowest in the European Union, while price rises and
economic growth are among the highest in the 27-member bloc.


Inflation over 12 months hit 8.5 percent in March -- the
country's highest rate since the mid-1990s, and top of the table
in the EU.


High inflation has gone hand in hand with breakneck growth:
Latvia's GDP increased by a record 11.9 percent in 2006 and is
forecast to expand by 9.0 percent this year.

