

Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi is expected to
meet with top officials from German giant Volkswagen over the
future of ailing national automaker Proton, a senior official
said Sunday.


"A high level meeting is expected soon. It is being arranged,"
the official who is familiar with the on-going talks on a
possible tie-up told AFP.


The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
meeting would take place in Malaysia but declined to elaborate
further.


"There is genuinely good faith between the parties," he added.


Abdullah has said Malaysia may allow Volkswagen to gain a
controlling stake in Proton, a move that would help turn around
the fortunes of the company.


The planned meeting comes as Malaysia missed a Saturday deadline
to name a strategic partner for Proton, whose controlling
shareholder is state investment arm Khazanah Nasional which holds
a 42.7 percent stake.


Volkswagen said Friday it was still negotiating with Proton over
a possible accord after a report that the German company had
pulled out of the talks.


Analysts say a foreign partner is crucial to Proton's survival as
it battles sliding sales due to growing competition from local
and imported autos.


The planned meeting comes as distributors of Proton urged the
carmaker to quickly form partnerships to reverse falling sales.


Wan Ahmad Sepwan Wan Abdul Rahman, president of Proton Edar
Dealers' Association, warned that poor sales may force about 70
percent of its members to close shop.


"Every dealer has to sell between 35 and 40 cars a month to
sustain their operation but since last year they could sell only
between 10 and 15 cars a month," he was quoted as saying by
Bernama news agency on Saturday.


Wan Ahmad said there were almost 400 Proton dealers nationwide,
far too many for a single brand, adding that Proton should forge
strategic alliances to stimulate the sales of Proton cars.


Earlier this month, negotiations with French car giant PSA
Peugeot-Citroen collapsed in what has turned into a long running
saga to find a partner for the struggling Malaysian company.


It posted a third consecutive quarterly loss of 281.45 million
ringgit (80.40 million dollars), in the three months to December
compared with a net profit of 86.51 million ringgit a year
earlier.

