

Britain is seeking to promote a more cohesive nation by requiring
people wanting to live permanently in the country to pass a test
in English as well as politics, history and culture.


Such tests have been required since 2004 for all those seeking
British citizenship, but will be required from Monday for all
those seeking permanent residence.


The test called "Life in the UK" is composed of 24 questions,
including those about British history, the political system,
customs, and citizens' rights.


People wanting to become permanent residents could be asked
questions like who is the head of the Church of England, when was
Queen Elizabeth II crowned, or how many members does the Scottish
parliament have.


Citzens of the European Union member countries, except Romania
and Bulgaria, which face immigration quotas, will be able to
continue to live and work in Britain without restriction.


The test will cost 34 pounds (50 euros) and the test review
pamphlet which people are advised to buy will cost nearly 10
pounds (15 euros).


The Home Office said the measure will help immigrants contribute
to the economy by increasing their employment prospects and
making them more aware of their rights and responsibilities.


However, Habib Rahman, chief executive of the Joint Council for
the Welfare of Immigrants (JCWI), was concerned abou the impact
of the new requirements.


"From Monday applicants for indefinite leave to remain (ILR) and
naturalisation will pay double for their application fees," he
said.


"In particular the new ILR regime with its test requirements will
make the integration of refugees and other vulnerable migrant
groups harder," Rahman added.


"The new rules could effectively deny UK settlement and
citizenship to some of the children in these families
indefinitely while the fees relative to these groups' lower
incomes are swingeing," Rahman said.


Facing growing public concerns about immigration, Britain, which
has been more open to immigration than many other European
countries, is pursuing a strategy to limit the influx and avoid
social divisions.


"It is essential that migrants wishing to live in the UK
permanently recognise that there are responsibilities that go
with this," Immigration Minister Liam Byrne said.


"Having a good grasp of English is essential in order for them to
play a full role in society and properly integrate into our
communities," he said.


Traumatised by the July 7, 2005 deadly terrorist attacks in
London, Britain is also aiming to better secure its borders and
identify individuals who enter and leave its territory.


"The days when border control started at the white cliffs of
Dover are over. Our immigration control needs to start well
before people come anywhere near British shores," Byrne said.


Britain's Home Office announced a plan Wednesday to tighten its
border controls. Keeping families together will prove more
complicated because family members will also have to pass
language and knowledge tests.


From 2008, foreigners arriving in Britain will have to obtain a
biometric residence card. And in 2009, Britain will begin
counting the majority of arrivals to and exits from the country.


Although plans to raise the minimum age for a marriage visa to 21
are being debated, Byrne supported the move and said he hoped it
could be introduced as soon as possible, along with other
measures to tackle forced marriage.


The JCWI's Rhian Beynon said the new visa system will favour
middle class immigrants who can demonstrate good education levels
and adequate incomes in their country of origin, but it will be
at the expense of poorer candidates.

