

French presidential candidates are ignorring or distorting
economic realities in their campaigns, EU economic chief Joaquin
Almunia told AFP, regretting their lack of political courage to
make painful reforms.


"Sometimes I hear arguments that do not take account of economic
reality, which are not based on economic data, which ignore
what's happening in European economies," the economic and
monetary affairs commissioner said in an interview, without
citing any names.


"For the sake of their credibility and sending citizens clear
messages, I think economic and political leaders need to
recognise reality and not change reality for the brief benefit of
more or less demagogic arguments," he added.


Campaigning for the first round of the election on April 22 has
been marked by a strong sense that France is under-performing and
that many of the economic and social policies of the last two or
three decades have become outdated.


The frontrunner, conservative Nicolas Sarkozy, answer has been to
call for the ECB to weaken the euro to make exports more
competitive and has vowed to block foreign products benefitting
from unfair regulatory advantages or artificially low exchange
rates.


Socialist candidate Segolene Royal has also attacked the ECB for
not focusing more on supporting growth and jobs and has promised
to lift social spending and raise the minimum wage.


However, Almunia urged the candidates to seize on the currently
favourable economic conditions to reform the economy, especially
by focusing on raising employment levels and improving
productivity.


"There is a whole series of structural policies that are more
easily implemented in periods of economic growth like the one we
are living in now, but from a political point of view we forget
sometimes to do them," he said.


Although the French economy is riding the wave of a broader
European economic upswing, its growth trailed its European
partners last year, rising only 2.1 percent compared with 2.6
percent for both Germany and the 13-nation eurozone.


"To increase the growth potential, the level of employment needs
to be increased," Almunia said.


"At the same time, policies and strategies for increaseing
productivity need to be increased," he added.


Implicitly attacking France's controversial 35-hour work week, he
also said that productivity should not be simply increased on an
hourly basis "because if you increase hourly productivity, but
you reduce the number of working hours, the result is nil."


He also warned that France was not getting as much out of its
huge spending on social services as other EU countries,
especially Nordic members, but he voiced satisfaction that the
country's huge public debt was a serious issue in campaigns.

