

Confidence among Japan's top corporate executives probably eased
off a two-year high in the three months to March mostly due to
worries about the health of the US economy, analysts forecast.


But they said a deterioration may not deter the Bank of Japan
from raising interest rates again at least once more this year as
the central bank appears worried about signs of a global asset
bubble fuelled by cheap Japanese credit.


The Bank of Japan's "Tankan" survey out Monday is expected to
show confidence among big manufacturers fell to 24 in March from
25 in December, marking the first drop in one year, according to
average market forecasts.


"A continuous good performance on corporate profitability should
have underpinned sentiment, but increasing uncertainty in
overseas economies, especially in the US, as well as recent rapid
yen appreciation should leave limited room for sentiment to
improve," said UBS economist Akira Maekawa.


Analysts noted that Japan's industrial output has fallen for the
past two months, as have durable goods orders in the United
States excluding aircraft, which could have a knock-on effect on
Japanese exports.


"Manufacturing production has been on a declining trend and there
are concerns about the sustainability of the US economic growth
into the year end," said Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse First Boston.


But he said that the pullback would not stop the Bank of Japan
from raising interest rates again this year, even after the first
fall in Japan's consumer price index for 10 months in February.


"Unless we expect the economy to go into recession again I think
the BoJ's story remains that they're going to hike rates again by
summer and again maybe by the end of the year," he said.


The previous Tankan report, which surveys almost 10,000 firms,
showed sentiment among big manufacturers rising to 25 in December
from 24, after a jump to 24 in September from 21.


The December figure was the strongest since the 13-year high of
26 seen in September 2004. A positive reading means that
confident firms outweigh pessimistic ones.


But not all economists expect a downturn in sentiment in March.


Morgan Stanley economist Takehiro Sato predicted a rise in the
Tankan's headline index to 26. But he thinks the major
manufacturers will forecast a drop to 21 by June as they tend to
be cautious about the outlook.


"If corporate sentiment again bucks the tough environment that we
expect and recuperates, this would be a minor pleasant surprise,"
he added.


Sentiment among major non-manufacturers is expected to decline to
20 from 22, after an unexpected rise in December, according to
the market forecasts.


One question is the impact of recent financial market volatility
on the confidence of Japan's captains of industry.


"The focus (for the Tankan) will be how financial market
instability since late February impacts corporate sentiment,"
Barclays Capital economists Takuji Aida and Yuichiro Nagai wrote
in a note to clients.


"Although the financial markets have been volatile, the drop in
share prices is unlikely to push down directly" on confidence
among major firms, they added.


The Tankan will also provide an update on the capital expenditure
plans of Japan's major companies.


UBS's Maekawa predicted that major Japanese companies would plan
a 1.9 percent rise in capital expenditure in the coming fiscal
year to March 2008, but overall companies would pencil in a 1.9
percent cut as firms tend to be cautious on their spending plans
at the start of the fiscal year.

