

Australia's ruthless form at the World Cup has been no more than
captain Ricky Ponting expected from the reigning champions.


The Cup holders' fifth win in as many matches at the tournament
was achieved in devastating style with a 10-wicket hammering of
Bangladesh here Saturday for a second straight Super Eights
success following their equally one-sided 103-run rout of hosts
West Indies.


Some believed Australia, bidding for a third World Cup triumph in
a row, were vulnerable after a run of five straight one-day
defeats at the hands of England (twice) and New Zealand (three
times).


But Ponting's men were not at full strength for all of those
matches and the captain was in no doubt his side would raise
their game in the Caribbean.


"This is a World Cup, and a lot comes with playing cricket for
Australia," said Ponting.


"When you cross that white line it's about giving 100 percent and
doing your best for yourself and for your team, and so I'm not
surprised with what we've done so far.


"We've got room for improvement, sure, but I think we're pretty
sharp in all areas. It's early in the tournament and no trophies
are being handed out now, so we need to keep a lid on things,
have a look at how we're playing and keep trying to improve."


However, the sight of all-rounder Shane Watson - who missed the
recent 5-0 Ashes thrashing of England with a hamstring problem -
leaving the field against Bangladesh because of a calf strain
could cause headaches for Australia as they look to maintain the
balance of their side.


And such has been the overwhelming dominance of their top order,
the likes of Andrew Symonds and Michael Hussey have had little
opportunity to make any meaningful contributions with the bat at
this tournament.


"At end of the day, if they don't get much of a hit, then we must
be doing a great job through the tournament," Ponting said. "I'm
sure they'll get runs if they get the opportunity."


Australia now have a week's break until their next Super Eights
match when they return to face their surprise triangular series
conquerors England in Antigua on Sunday, April 8.


England have looked anything but convincing in their matches so
far and during the group stage lost decisively by six wickets to
New Zealand in their only match so far against a Test match
nation.


Ponting, looking ahead, said: "England played excellent cricket
in Australia, but we were a long way off our best. We've got a
little bit to prove when we play them on Sunday."

