

While the war of words escalates between London and Tehran, the
families of the 15 British detainees are left anxiously waiting
for news of their loved ones.


"I'm very proud of my son, but I just want him to come back
home," said Sandra Sperry, mother of 22-year-old Adam Sperry,
cited by The Daily Telegraph this weekend.


Sperry was one of those captured at gunpoint in the northern Gulf
on March 23, triggering a major standoff between London and
Tehran which shows no immediate sign of being resolved.


As the crisis goes into its second week the fate of the detainees
-- called "hostages" by US President George W. Bush on Saturday
-- remains uncertain as Britain and Iran trade increasingly
uncompromising statements.


In the latest verbal exchange, hardline President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad slammed the "arrogant" attitude of the British
government, while Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett denounced
Tehran's "sabre-rattling."


Britain is particularly furious at the release of footage of the
detainees.


But perhaps ironically, the videos have provided at least some
comfort for relatives of the eight sailors and seven marines.


"It is wrong to parade the captives on television ... But I
cannot tell you what a relief it was to see my boy alive and
well," said Roy Summers, father of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers.


The 50-year-old said he does not believe his son's words were his
own.


"That wasn't my son talking," he told the Sun newspaper.
"Nathan's a man of few words. He was obviously given a script ...
Nathan will have gone along with what they asked, to keep the
situation calm."


As the crisis continues, a growing numer of the 15 have been
identified: as well as Summers and Sperry, the others include:
Danny Masterton, 26; Joe Tindell, 21; Paul Barton, 21; and the
group's only woman, Faye Turney, 26.


Summers and Turney have both appeared on Iranian television,
apparently confessing to having trespassed into Iranian waters,
despite Britain's insistence that they were in the Iraqi zone.


Turney's husband Adam, looking after the couple's three-year-old
daughter Molly at their home in the southern port city of
Plymouth, has not commented on her capture beyond requesting
privacy at this "very distressing time".


At one point last week it seemed the female sailor would be
released, only for these hopes to be dashed after Tehran slammed
what it called London's "incorrect" attitude in taking the case
to the UN Security Council.


Summers' brother Nick, who is also in the Royal Navy, urged him
to "just hang in there", adding the detainee's girlfriend was
finding the situation difficult but had been reassured by seeing
the television footage.


The small Cornish seaside town of Hayle where the family lives
has rallied around, and launched a yellow ribbon campaign for the
young sailor, according to the Daily Star Sunday.


Some are worried that, the longer the crisis continues, the
greater the risk. There has been talk from Tehran, so far
unconfirmed, that the 15 may have to stand trial.


"Iran is a brutal country with brutal punishment. They could be
executed if found guilty. We cannot let that happen," local pub
chef and family friend Adrian Betts told the Daily Star Sunday.


But mostly the families are, for the moment, keeping their hopes
up.


"It's all very well saying it's wrong to parade them, but when
it's your family it's a good feeling," said Sperry's uncle Ray
Cooper, 49. "It has put (his mother) Sandra's mind at rest a
bit."


"There are quite a few people around Sandra's house. Everyone is
a bit cheerier now."

