

Nepal's mainstream political parties and former Maoist rebels
Sunday formed a unity government and said they would hold polls
in June to decide the fate of the monarchy, cementing a landmark
peace deal.


The power-sharing agreement gives the Maoists their first
government positions following the peace accord last November to
end a decade-long civil war which claimed at least 13,000 lives
in the poor Himalayan country.


Months of wrangling between seven mainstream parties and the
Maoists over key posts including the job of second-in-command to
the premier had delayed the formation of the new cabinet, in
which the ex-rebels will hold five portfolios.


But on Sunday, the parties finally resolved all obstacles to the
implementation of the deal.


"The eight party leaders during today's session have agreed to
give the senior most post (after the prime minister) to the
Nepali Congress," said Amod Prasad Upadhyay, a senior Nepali
Congress leader.


"We are all now heading to parliament," which was to formally
approve the government, Upadhyay said.


Taking the next step laid out in the November peace plan, the
interim government said it would organise elections on June 20
for a constituent assembly that will decide the future of
landlocked Nepal.


The assembly will rewrite the constitution and decide if the
Himalayan nation should keep its 238-year-old monarchy or become
a republic, which the Maoists have long lobbied for.


"We have also agreed to get rid of the monarchy if we find proof
that the king is trying to disrupt the constituent assembly
elections," said Bhim Rawal, a leader of the Communist Party of
Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist).


King Gyanendra, seen by supporters as a Hindu deity, was forced
to relinquish direct rule last year after months of mass protests
organised by an alliance of the political parties and the
Maoists.


He has since been stripped of most of his powers, and the deal on
the new cabinet places him under even more pressure.


Under the power-sharing agreement reached Friday, but delayed by
the debate over the deputy leadership post, elderly Prime
Minister Girija Prasad Koirala -- considered the architect of
Nepal's peace deal -- will retain his position.


The Maoists will head the ministries of information, local
development, planning and works, forestry, and women and
children, but their leader Prachanda and his deputy Baburam
Bhattarai will not serve in government.


Although the former rebels have registered their weapons and
fighters with the United Nations in line with the peace accord,
questions persist over their commitment to truly disarm amid
accusations that they are continuing to carry out kidnappings,
beatings and extortion.


Analysts warn that the Maoists need to end all mafia-like tactics
if Nepal's peace process is to truly make headway.


With portfolios such as development and planning, the Maoists
will be forced to show results in dealing with international
donors and tackling a raft of serious economic and social
problems, analysts said.


"This is a very big opportunity for them to prove themselves, (to
show) their decade-long people's war was fought to change the
existing problems of the state," said political scientist Krishna
Khanal of Tribhuvan University.

