

Liverpool manager Rafa Benitez hinted that he may leave Peter
Crouch out of next week's Champions League quarter-final with PSV
Eindhoven despite his superb hat- trick in the 4-1 rout of
Arsenal at Anfield.


Crouch, who missed England's Euro 2008 qualifiers with Israel and
Andorra with a broken nose, marked his return to action after
surgery by running riot as Liverpool made a winning start under
their new American owners.


Tom Hicks and George Gillett were in the crowd to see Crouch
plunder his first hat-trick for the club as Benitez's side
leapfrogged Arsenal into third spot in the Premiership table.


It was the perfect tonic ahead of Tuesday's last eight showdown
with the Dutch league leaders.


Yet Benitez, who has come under fire for rotating his squad on a
match-by-match basis, hinted that Crouch's exploits might not be
enough to secure him a place in the first leg against PSV.


"I am happy for Peter because it was a great way to return after
injury," said Benitez. "But you know I like to rotate and if he's
fit then he will certainly be an option for us.


"But next Tuesday's game is a different kind of match to the one
against Arsenal. We will have to see."


Benitez labelled his side's performance 'perfect' as Liverpool
avenged their double failure at the hands of Arsenal in the FA
Cup and League Cup earlier this season.


Arsene Wenger's side arrived at Anfield having plundered 12 goals
against Liverpool this season yet were distinctly second best
throughout as they found themselves out-fought, out-classed and
out-thought.


Danish defender Daniel Agger scored a rare goal to put Liverpool
in the driving seat to finish third. Benitez's side are two
points ahead of Arsenal with seven games remaining.


"It was a good game from our point of view," added Benitez. "The
team desperately wanted to win after losing the last two games
here to Arsenal.


"They wanted to give the fans something special and the work rate
of the team was perfect."


Benitez moved to ease fears that Steven Gerrard had suffered an
injury during the game. Liverpool's influential skipper was
replaced early in the second-half but Benitez explained that the
midfielder's exploits with England in midweek had left him jaded.


"Gerrard is not injured," added Benitez. "Our idea was to use him
as much as possible."


A delighted Gillett celebrated the win by announcing that
Liverpool would not entertain the idea of sharing their new
stadium with Premiership neighbours Everton.


Liverpool are due to move to a new 60,000 seater stadium in the
next three years and there have been suggestions that they could
share the facility with Everton.


But Gillett, who along with Hicks is due to meet Benitez on
Sunday for talks about future signings, said that would not be
happening.


Angry Wenger slammed his side's defending as 'horrendous'. He
remains confident his side will win the race to finish third but
admitted a big improvement was required.


It was one of Wenger's biggest defeats in charge of Arsenal
despite William Gallas's late consolation goal.


"Liverpool were sharper and more determined than ourselves," said
Wenger. "Crouch was the big difference. He is an intelligent
player and I felt we gave him too much room.


"It was an horrendous performance defensively from the team. It's
a bad result and it was a disappointing performance. I feel the
players are conscious of the fact that they were disappointing."

