

Political crown prince Rahul Gandhi is hitting the campaign trail
for the ruling Congress party in what analysts say is "mission
impossible" -- the battle for India's most populous state.


Gandhi is spearheading Congress's electoral campaign in Uttar
Pradesh, a poverty-ridden, lawless state of 170 million people
where the party has been almost been wiped out.


No one expects the scion of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, which has
given India three premiers, to turn around the party's fortunes
in the Hindi-speaking heartland where voting starts next Saturday
in the marathon seven-phase polls.


"There's no way he can pull the fat out of the fire, it's really
a 'mission impossible'," said political author Satish Jacob.


However, analysts see Gandhi's prominent campaign role in the
pivotal state as the first clear sign he is being tapped as a
Congress leader and possible prime minister.


"Rahul Gandhi is evidently the great Congress hope for reviving
the glory of the dynasty," said columnist Rajinder Puri.


Still the task facing the square-jawed 37-year-old -- his biggest
job so far for the party -- would daunt even a hardened
politician.


Congress lost power 15 years ago in the state and opinion polls
suggest it will be lucky to keep the paltry 25 seats it won in
2004 in the 403-seat legislature.


One recent poll suggested a possible hung assembly with two
regional parties which draw heavily on caste loyalties running
neck-and-neck. The incumbent Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan
Samaj Party had just under 30 percent of the vote each, according
to the poll.


The Congress party looked likely to limp in last with only nine
percent despite the much vaunted "Gandhi magic."


"He's in the process of building up the party. You shouldn't
expect miracles," said Congress general secretary Digvijay Singh.


So far Gandhi has covered a part of the state and plans another
campaign push starting on Monday. He aims to crisscross the rest
of the state before polling ends May 8.


But his slow start -- he only began seriously campaigning late
last month -- has highlighted his apparent ambivalence about
politics, analysts say.


Party hopes were high that Gandhi, whose Amethi constituency lies
in Uttar Pradesh, would work to revive the Congress party's
moribund fortunes well ahead of the vote, seen as a dress
rehearsal for national polls two years away.


"He hasn't lived up to expectations people had of him. I don't
think he's a person with a strong political appetite," said
political columnist Pran Chopra.


Rahul Gandhi, who bears a strong resemblance to his assassinated
father Rajiv, took up the political torch in pursuit of a family
tradition.


After independence in 1947, power threaded from one generation of
the Nehru- Gandhi dynasty to the next, from India's first prime
minister Jawaharlal Nehru to his daughter Indira and later his
grandson Rajiv. All of them stood for election from Uttar Pradesh
and Nehru and his daughter, Indira, had an iron grip on the
state.


But Rahul, an investment banker who studied at Harvard, was seen
as having no political ambitions. However, three years ago, the
family announced he would enter politics, although his younger
sister Priyanka is regarded as more politically savvy.


On the hustings, Rahul has been beating the drum for younger
leaders "to take over the reins" in a country where most
politicians are of pensionable age.


It is a message the soft-spoken Rahul is fine-tuning for the
"great battle" ahead in the 2009 national elections, analysts
say.


Some say his Italian-born mother Sonia Gandhi, who is Congress's
all-powerful party president, is grooming him to be a prime
ministerial candidate.


"We'll try to build young leaders without regard to caste or
religion," Rahul told a crowd.


"The Congress wants to bring the fresh air of an equal society"
and "a golden future," he said.


Analysts believe Rahul's call could fall on more fertile ground
in years ahead as India's booming economy throws up more
sophisticated voters who value progress over caste loyalties.


"In the next five to 10 years things will completely change in
India. People won't bother about caste, they'll choose a leader
who can take them forward economically. Rahul Gandhi will be seen
as a representative of the middle class," said Jacob.


"But that won't happen in this election."

