

Michael Phelps quest for a record eight gold medals at the world
championships was cruelly ended Sunday after the shock
disqualification of the United States 4x100m medley relay team.


The Americans, without a rested Phelps, won their heat, but were
subsequently disqualified to prevent the 21-year-old superstar
from creating swimming history.


Butterflyer Ian Crocker was judged to have left the blocks four-
hundredths of a second too early in the second changeover from
breaststroker Scott Usher.


Phelps equalled Ian Thorpe's six golds at a world championship
when he pipped world champion Crocker in Saturday's 100m
butterfly final.


There were loud gasps from the crowd when the semaphore board
signalled that the American team would not be in the final
showdown later Sunday.


Crocker did not stop to talk to the media in the mixed zone, but
freestyler Neil Walker expressed the team's shock and
disappointment in having let down all their teammates - not just
Phelps.


"It's just an unlucky change and that's the way sport is
sometimes," Walker said.


"You can never plan that. I'm sure the take-off differential was
only a few one hundredths of a difference. It is incomprehensible
that amount of time. It's so small."


Japan and Romania were the chief beneficiaries with Japan fastest
into the final to get lane four ahead of Russia and South Africa
with Romania squeezing through in eighth place after the US
disqualification.


World record holder Phelps earlier cruised into the final of the
400-metre individual medley where he is expected to win his
seventh gold medal, but that will be all after the medley relay
team error.


"I'm hurting a little bit. Today is the most important day. It's
like the final exam, the last big test," said Phelps before the
relay heats.


"Fatigue isn't sneaking into my mind. It's been a long week and
the most important thing, other than being tired and being sore,
is that tonight's final is going to be very exciting."


Phelps swam a restrained four minutes 12.01 seconds, almost four
seconds outside his world record (4:08.26) and comfortably ahead
of Italian Luca Marin (4:13.33) and Tunisian Oussama Mellouli
(4:13.44).


Mellouli won the 800m freestyle title on Wednesday, relegating
world champion Grant Hackett to seventh place.


An out-of-sorts Hackett will attempt to defend his 1500m
freestyle world title later Sunday on the last night of the
championships.


American Katie Hoff, chasing the medley double, claimed the top
seeding in the final of the 200m medley in 4:38.21 ahead of
Australian Jennifer Reilly (4:40.12) and Russian Yana Martynova
(4:42.65).


"Tonight I will swim much faster, This morning I wasn't pushing
the whole way through at all," Hoff said.

