

US and South Korean officials raced Sunday to save a landmark
free trade deal hours ahead of a new deadline, with both sides
warning of outstanding disagreements holding up a final accord.


As the trade officials met at a closely guarded hotel here, US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rang her South Korean
opposite number Song Min-Soon to push for a deal, a Seoul foreign
ministry official said.


"Both ministers discussed final-stage FTA negotiations and agreed
to do their best to overcome various difficulties with a strong
political will," the official said, under cover of anonymity.


"Talks are difficult," agreed South Korean assistant agriculture
minister Min Dong-Seok, one of Seoul's negotiators for the free
trade agreement (FTA).


"A gruelling tug-of-war is expected because the gap is still so
wide over most of the key items," he added.


"It is hard to predict how the results will come out as the US
side still maintains tough positions."


He said that any accord might only come a few hours after the
expiry of a new deadline of 1600 GMT Sunday -- 1:00 am Monday in
Seoul and noon Sunday in Washington -- after an earlier time
limit was extended by 48 hours.


Working-level talks resumed at the hotel, which was guarded by
riot police against possible protests, with top-level negotiators
scheduled to meet in the afternoon, officials said.


The free trade agreement, if approved, would be the biggest for
the United States since the North American Free Trade Agreement
in 1993.


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006, and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent if trade is liberalised.


The US Trade Representative's office said the fresh deadline
would still allow any agreement to be reviewed by Congress while
President George W. Bush retains his authority to "fast-track"
deals.


Under the measure, Congress cannot amend a trade deal but merely
approve or reject it. Without such presidential powers, officials
fear negotiations could drag on for years.


Bush and his South Korean counterpart Roh Moo-Hyun, speaking by
telephone Thursday, had called on negotiators to conclude a deal
on time with "maximum flexibility."


But differences on agriculture and the auto trade have dogged
negotiations in recent days, although it was not clear what was
still in dispute.


YTN television news said that South Korea's Trade Minister Kim
Hyun-Chong and Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia would
meet later Sunday to try to strike a final deal after working-
level talks.


US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other senior Democrats made
clear their dissatisfaction in a letter Wednesday to US Trade
Representative Susan Schwab which singled out the auto market.


South Korea sold some 800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars
in the United States last year, while US firms exported only some
4,000 vehicles the other way.


The letter said the proposed deal "is completely inadequate in
the face of Korea's long-standing iron curtain to American
manufactured products."


Agriculture is another obstacle. South Korea insists that rice be
excluded from a deal and has resisted pressure for quick tariff
cuts on other sensitive food items.


Washington, meanwhile, wants Seoul to open its markets to US
beef, both by cutting tariffs and scrapping other barriers.


Roh believes industry and the service sector will be
reinvigorated by the competition a free trade deal would bring.


But heavily subsidised Korean farmers and other workers fear
losing jobs, and tens of thousands have staged occasionally
violent protests since the free trade negotiations began.

