

A decade after his landmark victory here at the Masters launched
"Tigermania", Eldrick "Tiger" Woods is well on his way to
achieving his late father's dream of an amazing legacy far beyond
golf.


Woods became the first black golfer to win a major title when he
captured the 1997 Masters by a record 12 strokes, and returns
this week with 12 major crowns, six shy of matching the all-time
mark of boyhood idol Jack Nicklaus.


Taking a fifth green jacket next weekend would leave Woods one
short of Nicklaus' all-time Masters win record, but the 31-year-
old superstar says his greatest joy and contributions to the
world occur far from the golf course.


His 25 million-dollar Tiger Woods Learning Center offers
opportunities for children to achieve peak potential in a variety
of fields.


The Tiger Woods Foundation, which has reached more than 10
million children, is "by far the greatest thing for me to do" and
has helped build a more diverse crowd of younger, non-white
golfers and followers.


"What I'm probably proudest of is what we're doing with the
Foundation and the youthfulness of the faces in the crowd and the
diversity. That wasn't the case before," Woods said. "It's just a
pretty cool sight."


Earl Woods, who died last May of cancer at age 74, had that
vision when his son was a child, training him in mental toughness
and public speaking. He predicted to Sports Illustrated in 1996
that Tiger would change the world.


"Tiger will do more than any other man in history to change the
course of humanity. This young man is going to be able to help so
many people," Earl Woods told the magazine.


"He will transcend this game and bring to the world a
humanitarianism which has never been known before. The world will
be a better place to live in by virtue of his existence."


Earl Woods, who met his Thai wife Kultida while a US soldier in
Vietnam, compared his son's potential to that of Mahatma Gandhi
and Buddha.


"He's qualified through his ethnicity to accomplish miracles.
He's the bridge between the East and the West. I don't know
exactly what form this will take. But he is the Chosen One. He
will have the power to impact nations.


"Not people. Nations."


Woods has fulfilled that promise on several levels, having been
named the most marketable athlete to North Americans, a throne
once owned by friend and fellow Nike pitchman Michael Jordan, in
a poll by Sports Business Daily.


"Tiger transcends all races, income levels, ages and gender,"
Scott White, marketing boss for Callaway Golf, a Nike rival, told
the business newspaper.


"Ten years ago everyone wanted to 'Be Like Mike.' Now everyone
wants to be like Tiger regardless of whether they play golf."


With income estimated last year at 90 million dollars, Woods has
made nearly 650 million dollars in the past decade. According to
Golf Digest, Woods is on pace to become the first sportsman
billionaire in 2010.


Former US President Bill Clinton marveled at Woods's power to
juggle stardom and generosity.


"Woods's success in golf at an early age overshadows the effort
he has made to give back to society," Clinton said. "To amass
these stunning, unprecedented records and still keep hold of
yourself to start giving back at this point in your life, this is
something all of us should think about."


Woods's foundation stages a US PGA Tour event in July, a move
seen as a step toward taking his youth work to the world.


"My dad was my best friend and greatest role model. I'm honored
to continue his legacy of sharing and caring," Woods said.


"We thought it was the best platform to grow awareness for what
we're trying to do with the foundation. We believe it's the
springboard to go global."


Woods avoids speaking out on race and political matters much the
way Jordan did, downplaying any notion of a future in politics.


"I don't know what the future will bring after my playing days,"
he said. "Right now I have my hands full putting the little white
ball in the hole."


Expecting his first child with Swedish wife Elin in July, Woods
ranks fifth in Forbes Magazine's Celebrity 100 but is the top
sports figure.


Since he joined the US PGA Tour, its total prize money has leaped
from 80.5 million dollars to 270 million dollars and television
ratings skyrocketed.


But the only glimpse people have at privacy-hungry Woods beyond
his grim golfing demeanor is in television commercials.


"It's a way for me to get across another side," Woods said. "What
they see on the golf course is not how I am every day. I'm out
there grinding, focused on what I'm doing. Away from the golf
course, I can't take anything seriously."

