

Nine Zimbabwean opposition activists have been abducted from
hospital, apparently by state security agents aided by prison
officials, their lawyer claimed Sunday.


The opposition members were hospitalised on Saturday for injuries
suffered after a police crackdown in the capital Harare last
week.


"The guys were abducted last night from hospital around 2300 GMT
by state security agents," said Alec Muchadehama, a lawyer for
the main opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).


"They were taken from the wards without any hospital discharge
cards or anything to say they have been released.


"We understand the guys who took them were also accompanied by
prison officials."


There was no immediate reaction from the authorities.


Several MDC officials and supporters were arrested last week in
what police said was a clampdown on fire bombers accused of a
series of attacks across the southern African country.


The MDC has denied the accusations saying its members, charged
with attempted murder over the firebombing of a ruling ZANU-PF
office this week, were framed.


The officials, among them a lawmaker, were taken to hospital
after one of them allegedly collapsed while awaiting a hearing on
their application for bail at a magistrate's court on Saturday.


"Right now we do not know where they are and why they were
taken," Muchadehama said, adding that "this is now a mafia
state".


On Friday, a defiant President Robert Mugabe told supporters that
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai had deserved a recent beating by
police.


The veteran leader, who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence in
1980, said he had told fellow African leaders at a summit last
week that his arch rival had "deserved to be assaulted".


Addressing supporters in Shona, Mugabe said of Thursday's summit
of the Southern African Development Community in Tanzania: "Yes,
I told them he was beaten but he asked for it."


"We got full backing, not even one (leader) criticised our
actions," added the president, who on Friday was chosen by his
party to stand for another term in office.


Mugabe has been widely condemned by the West for the arrests and
assaults of Tsvangirai and other MDC members last month as they
tried to stage an anti- government rally.

