

Like many Indian teenagers, 18-year-old Dhruv Marwah has just
finished gruelling final-year exams. What is more striking is
that Marwah's hard work earned him a pair of Louis Vuitton shoes.


"I like Louis Vuitton," said the heavy-set teenager, who was
dressed in a green T-shirt and jeans as he browsed shops in a
posh New Delhi hotel with his mother, who bought him the shoes
after exams ended.


"Everyone in my group wears Vuitton," he said.


Youngsters like Marwah are luring luxury foreign brands to India,
not always seen as the most likely place to sell a 700-dollar
pair of shoes to an 18-year- old.


"What makes India unique is a young population that also aspires
more and more to luxury products," said Xavier Bertrand, managing
director for Chanel in India, ahead of a two-day luxury retail
conference that ended at the weekend.


Along with the children of business families, like Marwah, who
are conscious of premium brands at ever younger ages, analysts
say an increasing number of young self-made rich are also joining
the club of potential luxury customers.


"We are seeing the emergence of a very new class of very affluent
young Indians," said Arvind Singhal, chairman of Indian retail
consultancy Technopak.


Average per capita annual income may hover at just above the cost
of a pair of Louis Vuitton shoes, but Singhal said the number of
Indian households earning more than 100,000 dollars a year is
growing by 12 to 15 percent.


"They could be professionals working in jobs, young
entrepreneurs," said Singhal. "These are not the mega-rich but
people who have started small factories, small IT companies,
small retail, five, seven or eight years ago."


Now there are 1.8 million Indian households that earn more than
100,000 dollars a year, he added, and they can spend about 9,000
dollars on premium goods and services.


That makes for a potential market of 16 billion dollars, he said.


"They have the willingness to spend the money," agreed Arpita
Mukherjee, a senior fellow at the Indian Council for Research on
International Economic Relations think-tank, adding today's big
earners tend to save less.


It is a sea-change for India, where 20 years ago brands were
unknown unless they were brought in by relatives visiting from
abroad.


Many of today's young, who have come of age during the economic
liberalisation of the 1990s, are more than ready to eschew the
independence struggle-inspired "buy Indian" ethos of their
parents and grandparents.


"We aspire to be global consumers," said Shimul Mehta Vyas, head
of India's top fashion school, the National Institute of Design.


Yet foreign luxury brands from France and Italy say they face
many challenges here, such as double-digit tariffs.


Shabnam Singhal, 31, who works with her family in the real estate
business, says she loves luxury products but still prefers to buy
them abroad.


"Thirty percent is a lot of money to pay on 500 or 1,000
dollars," she said, wearing blue contact lenses and carrying a
Louis Vuitton tote.


Sales in India for the brands represented by the Comite Colbert,
an association of 70 French luxury houses, are tiny, accounting
for a quarter of a percent of worldwide sales of 40 billion
dollars.


But Yves Carcelle, CEO of Louis Vuitton in New Delhi, said his
company believes "in the potential of the Indian market."


"After China, India will be the next growth story," he said. "But
right now we are the beginning."


Technopak's Singhal said Indian consumers of premium goods do not
yet think first of Chanel or Dior, but of a luxury condo or a
100,000-plus rupee crystal- studded designer sari.


"Many women are still comfortable in Indian clothes. That in
itself takes away a lot of sales," he said.


Luxury goods retailers also said finding upmarket retail space
was difficult, with many stuck in five-star hotels.


Most foreign luxury brands avoid the "high street," which usually
takes the form of crowded neighbourhood markets sometimes
frequented by beggars in a country where 280 million people still
live on less than a dollar a day.


But in spite of the sometimes stark contrasts India presents,
Singhal said lavish spending by well-off Indians was not in poor
taste.


"In the case of the maharajahs who were born to wealth, I think
that was not correct," he said. "Today people are achieving
success though their own hard work. They have every right to
enjoy it."

