

Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore wants his talented and youthful
side to "apply logic" when they face New Zealand in their second
World Cup Super Eights match here Monday.


Former Australia batsman Whatmore was dismayed to see a
succession of Bangladesh top order batsmen try and fail to hit
Glenn McGrath off his length during their 10-wicket defeat by the
reigning world champions on Saturday.


McGrath, who during the course of the match broke Pakistan great
Wasim Akram's record of 55 World Cup wickets, said Bangladesh's
approach had much to do with the fact rain had reduced the game
to 22 overs per side.


But Whatmore insisted too many of his batsmen had played a part
in their own downfall by being overly aggressive early on and so
helping McGrath to a haul of three for 16 in five overs.


"I wasn't very happy to see that. He's got the best economy rate
of all their bowlers. The boys knew that yet they still wanted to
hit him. That's the frustrating part. You can see the talent in
our kids, you tell them he's not easy to hit yet they still try
to hit him," Whatmore said.


"We've got to have a little bit more discipline, apply logic and
then we'll do better.


"The boys have got the ability, but a rush of blood here and a
rush of blood there and it's so frustrating."


Bangladesh beat New Zealand by two wickets in a World Cup warm-up
match last month.


But since that reverse the Black Caps have been in fine form and
Whatmore believes they could be one of the sides capable of
stopping Australia from winning a third straight World Cup title.


"They are a good solid team in any conditions and they'll be good
opposition on Monday. They are strong all over, a very good
fielding team and they bat deep with allrounders.


"They have a lot of flexibility and are difficult to bowl out,"
added Whatmore, Sri Lanka's coach when they won the World Cup in
1996.


Two years ago Bangladesh caused the greatest upset in one-day
international cricket history when they defeated Australia by
five wickets in Cardiff.


However, Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes that
Bangladesh, who beat India at this World Cup, are a better side
now than they were then.


"They've come a long way since I first started playing against
them and the exciting thing about them is that they've got a few
17, 18, 19-year-old kids in their side which is exciting for any
team to have."


And New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming insisted there was no way
his side would be under-estimating Bangladesh after their recent
experience.


"They turned us over in the warm-up game and they've been
competitive through the World Cup and if conditions are right
they can be quite a handful," he said.


"The danger is complacency, under-estimating what they can do. I
think it's a blessing in disguise that we know what they can do.


"They bowl a different length, they are able to exploit fresher
conditions because they bowl fuller. They provide different
challenges, challenges you don't get facing your own bowlers in
the nets - so that's where the adjustment comes from."


Bangladesh have a fitness doubt over pace bowler Tapash Baisya
who had to leave the field with what appeared to be a foot injury
during his third over against Australia.


New Zealand are set to field largely the same team that beat West
Indies by seven wickets on Thursday although Mark Gillespie, yet
to play in the World Cup because of a shoulder problem, could
replace fellow pace bowler James Franklin.

