

A ban on foreigners selling goods in Russia's hugely popular
retail markets came into force on Sunday, leaving many markets
struggling to remain open.


Critics warned that the government order could push up prices,
hurting the poorest among the population.


Almost all stalls were deserted at the vast market in Ussuriysk,
near the Chinese border in Russia's Far East, as the mainly
Chinese workforce had left in advance of the new regulation, a
visiting AFP reporter saw.


"We had hoped good sense would prevail.... This could disrupt the
economy and bring many problems," a district councillor from
Ussuriysk, Sergei Simakov, said.


At Moscow's vast Dorogomilovsky market some stalls had been
forced to close and were displaying signs that read: "Wanted:
Sales-people, must be Russian."


In other cases foreigners remained in behind-the-scenes roles but
had hired locals to trade on their behalf.


The government order announced last November and effective from
April 1 bans foreigners from conducting transactions at market
stalls, although they are still allowed to own such stalls.


"We're waiting for the inspectors," said Ilkham, the Uzbek owner
of a seafood stall at Dorogomilovsky.


"It's hard to find Russians because the workday is so long, from
6:00 am to 6:00 pm. I had to hire a woman with a Russian passport
for 1,000 rubles (38 dollars/29 euros) and that's only for
today," said Ilkham, who declined to give his surname.


The ban was presented by President Vladimir Putin as a way of
improving employment prospects for Russian citizens.


But critics say its aim is to placate nationalist sentiment ahead
of parliamentary elections in December and a presidential vote
next March at which Putin is due to stand down.


Up to 12 million foreigners are thought to work illegally in
Russia.


Many import produce from the warmer climes of ex-Soviet republics
on Russia's southern border, several of which have visa-free
travel accords with Moscow.


Russia has seen a rise in nationalist sentiment in recent years.


Last year 539 people suffered racist attack, of whom 54 died as a
result, according to the monitoring organisation Sova.


In August 11 people were killed in a racially motivated bomb
attack on a Moscow market.


In the government's defence analysts point out that a quota on
legal foreign workers in Russia was raised in January from one
million to five million people.


A spokesman for the federal migration service, Konstantin
Poltoranin, promised that enforcement would be carried out in an
orderly fashion.


"This doesn't mean that from April 1 we will start large-scale
raids and special operations. We view this date calmly and will
check compliance with migration legislation... as we did before,"
Poltoranin was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying.


But the governor of the Far Eastern province of Primorsky, Sergei
Darkin, said he was concerned about the possibility of price
rises.


"We should do all we can to ensure reasonable prices for imported
goods that meet the demands of our province's consumers. This
demand can't be met just by native producers," said Darkin.

