

The conviction of "Aussie Taliban" David Hicks before a US
military tribunal has raised fresh questions about Washington's
experiment with "war on terror" trials in Guantanamo.


In the first case to come before the tribunals, Hicks's plea deal
was heavily colored by politics and renewed concerns among rights
groups about the court's independence, evolving rules and court
evidence possibly based on abuse.


The outcome, in which Hicks was given a light nine-month prison
term, had every sign of a deal produced by Australia's lobbying
of Washington, said Hina Shamsi of Human Rights First.


"Mr. Hicks's military commission was like a train hurtling toward
judgment. It was propelled by the political considerations of a
US ally and nothing was allowed to stand in its way," Shamsi
said.


Defense lawyers would neither confirm or deny the plea agreement
was shaped by diplomatic pressure, but opposition figures in
Australia called it a "political fix."


Critics of the tribunals have long argued the system lacks
independence as it is run out the Defense Department by a
political appointee.


Prosecutors said they were left out of the plea negotiations,
which took place between Hicks's lawyers and the chief of the
tribunals, Susan Crawford.


The plea deal also included an unusual provision in which Hicks
endorsed a statement that he had never been "illegally treated"
by US authorities and accepted a ban on speaking to the media for
a year.


The gag order sent a message that the US government's "primary
interest appears to be the protection against the disclosure of
abuse," said Jennifer Daskal of Human Rights Watch.


Hicks has said he was beaten and abused during his US detention
before he was brought to Guantanamo in 2002, charges denied by
the Pentagon.


Unlike regular US courts and military courts-martial, the
tribunal rules allow trials on evidence obtained through
"coercion."


Given numerous allegations of abuse of detainees, legal experts
-- including some military lawyers -- say plans to hold trials
based on evidence obtained through harsh interrogations could
derail the process and damage its credibility.


At least one military prosecutor at the commissions, Lieutenant
Colonel Stuart Couch, has taken himself off a case out of concern
the detainee's statements were based on abuse and cruel
treatment, the Wall Street Journal reported Saturday.


Colonel Morris Davis, the chief prosecutor for the tribunals,
defends the commissions's legal framework as comparable to
international tribunals set up to try war crimes in former
Yugoslavia or Rwanda.


He disagreed the tribunals were flouting legal norms and said
hearings for the Hicks case resembled a US court martial.


"I think you'd find that the process you saw this week mirrored
what you'd see in a court-martial," Davis told reporters.


One of the first detainees to be brought hooded and shackled to
this remote US naval base on the southeastern tip of Cuba, Hicks
was a curious choice to be a test case for the tribunals.


Marked by sometimes clumsy proceedings, with the actors unsure of
the tribunal's rules, the hearings seemed a far cry from the
Nuremberg war crimes trials which US officials cite as a model.


President George W. Bush originally justified the tribunals as a
way of trying those behind the September 11 attacks, but the
first US war crimes trial since World War II focused on a man who
spent two hours on a front line and was not accused of staging
attacks on US targets.


Prosecutors have said they intend to charge up to 80 detainees,
but no charges have been leveled against the biggest suspects in
detention, including alleged Al-Qaeda mastermind Khalid Sheik
Mohammed.


Meanwhile, the US administration is sending out mixed signals
about its commitment to the tribunals with Defense Secretary
Robert Gates saying Thursday any trials in Guantanamo may be seen
as "tainted" abroad.

