

Bird flu has killed two more Indonesians, taking the death toll
in the nation worst hit by the deadly virus to 71, a health
official said Sunday.


Test results confirmed a 22-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman
died from the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus, an official from
the ministry's bird flu information centre said.


He said a second round of tests confirmed initial results that
they died of the virus. He declined to confirm when they died.


"The toll now stands at 91 human cases and 71 deaths," he said.


Records show, however, that the man from Padang in West Sumatra
died at the general hospital on March 24, one day after he was
admitted for treatment.


The woman was admitted to a Jakarta hospital on March 21 and died
after being transferred to another hospital on Wednesday, records
also show.


The Indonesian government had hoped to eradicate human infections
this year, and banned the popular practice of keeping chickens in
backyards in Jakarta.


Most human infections have occurred after contact with sick
birds.


The World Health Organisation says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu has infected at least 282 people and killed at least 169 of
them, mostly in Southeast Asia, since the end of 2003.


Confirmation of the two deaths comes one day after 40 scientists
from all over Indonesia met in Jakarta to discuss ways of
combating the disease.


They said at the top-level meeting Saturday that they remained
baffled by the "random" behaviour of the bird flu virus
afflicting the country.


Last week Indonesia lifted a ban on sharing bird flu samples with
the WHO for tests said to be key to tracking and tackling the
disease.


It had stopped sending samples over concerns drug firms would end
up using them to develop costly vaccines that would be beyond the
budgets of poorer countries.


Firms now need permission from a country to gain access to its
virus samples under a deal agreed with the WHO after days of
international talks in Jakarta.


Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono later said the
world should treat rich and poor countries equally in its attempt
to avoid a catastrophic human pandemic from bird flu.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

