

While Thai exporters are fretting over the baht's rapid gains
against the dollar, other companies are looking at strength in
the currency as a chance to pick up bargain investments overseas.


The government is actively encouraging Thai businesses to make
those investments, with the dual goals of finding a bargain
thanks to the favorable exchange rate and in helping to soften
the baht by increasing capital outflows, analysts say.


Thai companies have spread investments across Southeast Asia and
into China, mainly in agriculture but also in tourism, services,
and construction, according to Thailand's Board of Trade.


Board of Trade secretary general Pornsilp Patcharintanakul said
Thai companies, and not only large-scale operators, were
capitalising on raw materials and cheaper labour costs in
neighbouring countries.


"With a strong baht, the government is trying to encourage Thai
firms to invest in overseas markets," Pornsilp said.


The baht jumped nearly 12 percent over the past year, which
analysts fear could hurt exports which account for about 60
percent of the Thai economy.


The sharp gains in the exchange rate prompted the Bank of
Thailand in mid- December to impose stringent currency rules that
require 30 percent of all incoming investments to be held by
financial institutions for up to one year.


The central bank has eased many of the rules after they caused
stocks to plunge, and the Thai currency has risen to nine-year
highs at about 35 baht to the dollar over recent weeks.


The central bank is estimated to have spent five billion dollars
to soften the baht since the reserve requirement was imposed.


As another way of softening the baht, the military-backed
government has also promoted Thai investments offshore to boost
outflows of the baht.


Vietnam, which has laid out the welcome mat for foreign investors
since it joined the World Trade Organisation, is among the
biggest beneficiaries of Thai investments.


Industrial giant Siam Cement Group (SCG) has earmarked three
billion dollars for investments in Vietnam over the next three
years.


So far, SCG has invested in the petrochemical, construction
material, packaging and logistic sector, the firm said.


The company is also setting up a new concrete facility in
Cambodia, in addition to its existing operations in Indonesia,
Laos, Myanmar and the Philippines.


Thailand's biggest brewer and producer of best-selling Chang
Beer, Thai Beverage Plc is studying the feasibility of setting up
a brewery in Vietnam.


The company in late 2006 invested one billion baht (28.5 million
dollars) in Vietnam through buying shares of Melia Hotel in
Hanoi.


Listed Central Pattana (CPN), the property developer behind
retail giant Central Group, is closing deals to form a retail
complex joint venture in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in what would
be the firm's first project overseas.


The development would be a mixture of hotel and shopping malls,
said James Peter Blaney Davidson, CPN's vice president for
international business development.


"The potential in Vietnam is tremendous, especially for CPN and
Central as a whole. It is the most prospective market and we have
to be there," he told AFP.


Meanwhile, agriculture giant Charoen Pokphand Group is setting up
a marine business in the Philippines and expanding a restaurant
chain in China.


The Thai conglomerate is reaching even farther afield, expanding
its marine and animal feed business into Britain and Turkey.


"In addition to stimulating domestic investments to boost
imports, the government has encouraged Thai companies to invest
abroad," said Somchai Jitsuchon, director for macro-economics at
the private Thailand Development Research Institute.


But overseas investment by Thai firms has not yet had much effect
on the baht because the government has not done enough to
simplify the process for sending money abroad, said Somchai, who
is also an economic advisor to the government.


The weak stock market, which still has not returned to the
700-point level seen before the coup in September, also makes it
difficult for companies to raise capital for new projects, he
added.


Board of Trade's Pornsilp said to promote overseas investments,
the government needed to develop investment protection agreements
with neighbouring countries to minimise risks to Thai investors.


Authorities also need to cut the red tape to facilitate capital
outflows and transfers back to Thailand, he added.

