

Sevens rugby is a dramatic, colourful and exhausting game, but it
is nothing compared to life in Hong Kong Stadium's  South Stand.


The stand filled up soon after the gates opened on Friday
afternoon, and the crowd looked certain to party until the last
try is scored more than 48 hours later.


Rugby is just a sideshow for the South Stand spectators, who
concentrate on drinking, dancing and throwing beer jugs at each
other.


Outrageous fancy-dress is virtually compulsory, with this year's
favourite outfits being air stewardesses and French maids -- and
that was just the men.


Girls in tiny carnival bikinis performed for the happy mob, while
a group of cheeky cheerleaders were predictably popular.


In the very centre of the chaos on Saturday were members of the
New Zealand Metro team, who won a 10-a-side rugby tournament in
Hong Kong this week.


The imposing players celebrated their victory by dressing up in
frilly knickers, delicate lace bras and black suspenders.


As they gulped down lager, their manager Barry Gallagher --
looking very comfortable in his skimpy attire -- said: "The team
choose how we dress at the Sevens and so this is it. We have
three days of really kicking back after a lot of hard work."


"We are wearing 'LAP'," said one man. "Little As Possible."


On a muggy day, their gear looked positively sensible compared
with the group in head-to-toe "big bird" costumes, complete with
yellow feathers.


A dozen "Borats" from Brisbane were wearing tight green singlets,
thin shorts, huge wigs and bushy moustaches. They earnestly
inquired after the performance of the Kazakhstan team.


"Doing better than Australia," someone shouted above the thumping
music.


Also spotted in the melee were Ghostbusters, Red Indians, boy
scouts, Freddie Mercuries, angels in high heels, nurses, nuns and
lifeguards.


One man was dressed in a tweed skirt and cardigan, accessorised
with a pearl necklace, elegant hat and clutch handbag. No one
batted an eyelid as he called for another beer.


Under-18s were banned from the South Stand for the first time
this year, but grown-up behaviour was still not much in evidence.


Corporate boxes at the Hong Kong Sevens like to get into the same
party spirit, though with the added advantages of fresh seafood,
chilled white wine and clean toilets.


Many normally sober financial companies choose a dressing-up
theme and spend thousands of dollars decorating their boxes.


The three-day event is seen as a rare chance to let off steam in
a city famous for its high-pressure working environment.


This year Goldman Sachs has gone for a "knights in shining
armour" look, complete with a cardboard "castle" and mock-
medieval drapery.


Inflatable swords and shields were provided so the bankers could
joust each other between games.


Next door, Deutsche Bank was entertaining clients on an aviation
theme.


Pictures over the door showed a pair of welcoming female airline
crew. Inside, a large model plane hung from the ceiling and the
entire box was done out as a luxury aeroplane interior.


Guests were provided with cabin crew hats to get in the swing of
things.


CLSA, a respected Hong Kong-based brokerage house, turned its box
into a nightclub, complete with a "vodka luge" -- a huge block of
ice through which shots of alcohol swirl before flowing straight
into drinkers' mouths.


A display board revealed Saturday's agenda: "9am Bull shots. 11am
Margaritas. 2pm Martinis. 5pm Cosmopolitans."


HSBC have wrapped their door in tin foil to go with their
futuristic submarine decor, while Citibank have gone for a Roman
gladiator dress code.


Corporate guests have stunning views over the pitch, and can look
across to the South Stand as it gets louder, drunker and
smellier.

