

Germany's squeaky-clean business image looked to be in danger of
being severely tainted this week by the seeming never-ending
string of corruption allegations at one the country's best-known
and hitherto most respected companies, Siemens.


In fact, commentators were asking themselves whether the much-
prized German principle of co-determination -- whereby labour
representatives make up half of a company's supervisory board --
was not a "licence to corrupt," as the daily Die Welt suggested.


The cosy ties between management and unions in Germany had
already come under fierce scrutiny in the recent bribery scandal
at auto giant Volkswagen where works council members saw the car
maker allegedly pick up the tab for plush foreign trips and even
visits from prostitutes in return for union approval of unpopular
restructuring measures.


But the mighty IG Metall labour union claimed this week that the
Siemens affair was much worse than anything that had been
uncovered at VW.


"It seems that our suspicion that Siemens systematically tried to
influence works councils and employee representation is
hardening," said IG Metall official Michael Leppek.


As allegations of bribery, corruption and embezzlement snowball
at the engineering giant, the arrest this week of a member of
Siemens' central management board, Johannes Feldmayer, focussed
attention on allegations that management tried to build up a
small trade union as a counterweight to the all- powerful IG
Metall.


Feldmayer and Siemens' former finance chief, Karl-Hermann
Baumann, were both suspected of being involved in alleged
payments to the head of the tiny AUB labour organisation, Wilhelm
Schelsky, who was arrested last month.


Schelsky allegedly received 15-20 million euros (20-26 million
dollars) in bogus consultancy fees, press reports have said.


IG Metall union has said it was now considering legal action
against the company in the wake of the allegations.


At the same time, Siemens is also engulfed in a massive slush-
fund scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers
siphoned off hundreds of millions of euros in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


Prosecutors this week said they had arrested two more current and
former managers in connection with the matter following a series
of high-profile arrests at the end of last year, including the
former head of Siemens' telecoms division, Thomas Ganswindt.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.


Prosecutors put the sum held in the accounts at 200 million euros
(266 million dollars) and some of that money may have been used
as bribes to obtain contracts abroad.


Siemens, which itself said it had uncovered as much as 420
million euros in suspicious payments, protests its innocence and
its chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld is spear-heading a determined
anti-corruption drive within the company.


But as more and more allegations come to light, all such
protestations are sounding increasingly hollow and giving rise to
suspicions that a culture of corruption was endemic to Siemens.


"Since this week, it is clear how far all Siemens' protestations
are away from reality," wrote the business daily Handelsblatt.


"With each new scandal, the question of whether there isn't a
'Siemens system' becomes all the more pressing," said the daily
Sueddeutsche Zeitung.


For many, the main bogeyman could prove to be Siemens' former CEO
and its current supervisory board chairman, Heinrich von Pierer.


Von Pierer, hitherto one of the most respected company executives
in Germany who was even mooted at one time as a possible
candidate for German president, strenuously denies any wrongdoing
and refuses to stand down.


But the executive "stood at the helm of this system for years,"
said Klaus Schneider, head of the SdK shareholders association.


"And you have to begin to ask yourself whether any deals at all
at Siemens were clean. There appears to have been some sort of
dirty-deal culture," Schneider said.

