

Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer insisted Sunday that
Canberra had no role in the sentence that keeps Guantanamo Bay
inmate David Hicks behind bars until after this year's federal
election.


The case of the 31-year-old Australian, jailed Friday for nine
months, had been brewing as an election issue, with Prime
Minister John Howard's government criticised for not ensuring US
officials brought him to trial sooner.


Downer said the sentence handed down to Hicks, who has spent more
than five years at Guantanamo without charge, was determined
purely by US authorities.


Asked whether it was a coincidence Hicks would be in custody
until after national elections, which must be called before the
end of the year, Downer said, "Well, it is."


"Because this is, in detail, a deal that was done between the
prosecution, the defence and the so-called convening authority.


"So it's not that the Australian government said to the defence,
'Well, no, you should take a nine month period until we're after
the election', or anything like that."


Hicks last week pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training
camps and volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime
during the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


Downer said while it had taken too long for Hicks to be tried, he
had never believed the Adelaide-born man was "just an innocent
Australian travelling abroad who unfortunately got tied up with a
bit of trouble."


"We always thought that he was somebody who deliberately went to
Pakistan and to Afghanistan in order to support terrorist
organisations, and of course that now is manifestly clear,"
Downer told commercial television.


Downer said he considered Hicks dangerous but it was up to
Australian police to determine whether he would be monitored once
released from jail.


Hicks's American military lawyer Major Michael Mori said his
client, who will likely serve most of his sentence in Adelaide in
South Australia, could now become a successful member of society.


"I don't think he will present any threat to anyone," he said.


"I really think his desire to finish his education has given him
an immediate goal when he gets back, I think it would be great if
he could go to university, if he could accomplish that," Mori
told Australia's Seven Network.


"There's a lot of people that have supported David and I think
he'll be able to make it and be a successful person."

