

A silent film made by a Chinese immigrant family in the United
States in the early 1900s is believed to be the first Asian-
American movie ever made, historians say.


The 35-minute-long film "The Curse of Quon Gwon" was shot in 1916
by American- born Chinese woman Marion Wong and was recently
screened at the San Francisco International Asian-American Film
Festival.


For years two reels of film had languished in a dusty wardrobe, a
small slice of celluloid history in permanent danger of
deteriorating beyond repair and being lost forever.


It was saved however by film-maker Arthur Dong, who rediscovered
the film  after being contacted by descendants of Wong while
researching his new documentary "Hollywood Chinese."


Realising the importance of the movie, Dong took the film to the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.


"I went to them and said, 'You must save this'," Dong said.


Now fully restored, "The Curse of Quon Gwon" was last year
admitted to the National Film Registry by the Library of
Congress, an honour afforded to only 25 films a year.


Made in Oakland, California, the film tells the story of a family
placed under the curse of an ancient Chinese god. Director and
producer Wong stars as a villainess while her sister, Violet
Wong, is the heroine.


Experts say they are baffled at how Wong, 21 at the time, managed
to shoot what is a relatively sophisticated film for its era.


"I'm amazed by her ambition," said Stephen Gong, a film historian
and executive director of the Center for Asian American Media.


"She wanted to make as good a film as D.W. Griffith, the big
filmmaker at the time."


Violet Wong's grandson, Greg Mark, agrees.


He had the film transferred from 35 mm to 16 mm format in the
late 1960s while working as a teacher's assistant in one of the
first Asian American Studies classes at the University of
California, Berkeley.


"I told my grandma where I was working and she told me 'There's a
film in the cupboard. Do something with it.'"


Mark said he didn't dream of disobeying his grandmother's wishes.


"The women were the backbone of our family," he said. "Aunt
Marion, think of what she did. I'm amazed she was able to put
together a package like this."


According to family folklore, Wong had some help.


Essanay Film Company had a studio in Niles, about 20 miles from
Oakland. In 1915, their biggest star, Charlie Chaplin, made 14
short films in Niles.


Wong's parents ran a restaurant in the theater district of
Oakland and family members think Wong must have met the film
crew.


Gong agrees, saying that using a hand cranked 35 mm camera was
something Wong would have needed to learn from someone.


"The movie has a very complex story line," he said. "It's well
edited and she knows about film language.


"For example, there's a scene where the character feels shackled
and she looks down and chains appear on her hands and then
disappear. She wasn't play-acting. This is a professional effort,
not a home movie."

