

The Auckland Blues extended their lead in the Super 14 rugby
competition at the weekend as South Africa's leading lights, the
Coastal Sharks, stumbled for the second week in a row.


It was the Western Force who engineered the revamp at the top of
the table as their win against the Sharks allowed the Canterbury
Crusaders to leap into second place.


But the Crusaders were lucky to escape with a one-point win over
the lowly New South Wales Waratahs when the usually reliable
Peter Hewat missed a late conversion attempt from near the
uprights that would have seen the Australian side home.


The Crusaders at least knew the way to the try-line, scoring six
tries in a high-scoring match which produced 10 touchdowns in
total, while the remaining five games could only muster 11
between them, including three to the Blues.


For the Blues, the highlight of their 18-11 win over neighbours
the Waikato Chiefs was the try by Doug Howlett midway through the
second half which made him, on 58, the most prolific try-scorer
in the history of Super rugby.


The true hero for the Blues though, in a match they could easily
have lost, was hooker Keven Mealamu.


He came off the bench in the second spell to immediately score
himself and then set up Howlett for his historic try as the Blues
moved from 8-11 down to 18-11 up in the space of four minutes.


The win put the Blues on 32 points from seven wins in eight
games, five points ahead of the Crusaders on 27, followed by the
Force and Sharks on 25.


The Crusaders suffered a huge scare against a Waratahs side which
has only won one of eight matches this season.


After racing to an early 22-5 lead and a bonus point by half-
time, the Crusaders stumbled through the final 40 minutes before
securing the narrowest of wins 34-33.


In part they suffered from Stephen Brett having an off night with
the boot, converting just two of the six tries, but they were
also thankful Hewat failed to convert Tatafu Polota-Nau's try
which had closed the gap to one point with just 10 minutes
remaining.


The Force, in only their second season of Super rugby, have
become Australia's main hope and on Friday notched a gritty 22-12
win over the often undisciplined Sharks at Subiaco Oval.


Star recruit Matt Giteau set up the game's only try by Cameron
Shepherd and also contributed 17 points from five penalties and a
conversion.


Although the Force have fashioned an impressive five wins from
eight games, coach John Mitchell feels they are still not getting
the recognition due to them.


"Not too many people respect us in this competition, and I think
there were a few doubts this week with some people ignoring our
ability," he said.


The Force will be tested next weekend when they start a three-
match tour against the Crusaders in Christchurch, and then go on
to play the Chiefs and ACT Brumbies.


The late-charging Brumbies moved into fifth place as they backed
up beating the Sharks last week by downing the Lions 14-9 this
weekend after being locked 6-6 at halftime, with fullback Julian
Huxley scoring all the points.


The Wellington Hurricanes remained on the edge of play-offs
contention in 10th place when they snapped a four-match losing
streak to beat the Northern Bulls 17-9.


The experiment of shifting Piri Weepu to flyhalf payed dividends
as the All Blacks halfback injected attacking flair into the
backline.


He complemented his performance with four penalties and set up
the game's only try which Hosea Gear scored late in the match.


The Otago Highlanders also kept their semi-final hopes alive
after repulsing a late charge by Central Cheetahs for a 21-17
victory and moving up from 10th to eighth on the table.

