

US and South Korean officials raced Sunday to agree on a major
free trade deal hours ahead of a new deadline, with both sides
warning of outstanding disagreements holding up a final accord.


As officials met at a closely guarded hotel, US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice rang her South Korean opposite number Song
Min-Soon to push for a deal, a Seoul foreign ministry official
said.


"Both ministers discussed final-stage FTA negotiations and agreed
to do their best to overcome various difficulties with strong
political will," the official said, on condition of anonymity.


"Talks are difficult," agreed South Korean assistant agriculture
minister Min Dong-Seok, one of Seoul's negotiators for the free
trade agreement (FTA).


"A gruelling tug-of-war is expected because the gap is still so
wide over most of the key items," he added on Sunday morning.


"It is hard to predict how the results will come out as the US
side still maintains tough positions."


He said any accord might only come a few hours after the expiry
of a new deadline of 1600 GMT Sunday -- 1:00 am Monday in Seoul
and noon Sunday in Washington -- after an earlier time limit was
extended by 48 hours.


The deadline would allow any agreement to be reviewed by the
Democrat-controlled Congress while President George W. Bush
retains his authority to "fast-track" the deal -- meaning
legislators can accept or reject it but not amend it.


The free trade agreement, if approved, would be the biggest for
the United States since the North American Free Trade Agreement
in 1993 and its first with a major Asian economy.


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006, and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent if trade is liberalised.


The deal would give South Korea a boost in the US market over
Asian rivals such as Japan, Taiwan and China which have not
signed a pact, and make  protected economic sectors more
efficient by exposing them to competition.


But heavily subsidised farmers and other workers who fear for
their jobs, along with activists, have staged numerous protests
since negotiations began 10 months ago.


On Sunday a 56-year-old man set himself alight outside the venue,
the hilltop Grand Hyatt hotel. Riot police sprayed him with a
fire extinguisher and he was conscious but in critical condition
in hospital.


Hundreds of helmeted riot police carrying shields were deployed
outside the hotel, among a total of some 10,000 deployed in Seoul
over the weekend. But protests in the past week have been
relatively small and free of violence.


Agriculture and the auto trade were among contentious items in
recent days, although it was not clear what was still in dispute.


South Korea insists that rice be excluded from a deal and has
resisted pressure for quick tariff cuts on other sensitive food
items.


Washington wants Seoul to open its markets to US beef, by cutting
tariff and non-tariff barriers.


The US wants South Korea to liberalise its auto market. Seoul
sold some 800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the
United States last year, while US firms exported only some 4,000
vehicles the other way.


Disputes over textiles were almost settled, said Lee Jae-Hoon,
vice minister of commerce. "(Textile) talks are nearing an end
and we have only to work on legal reviews about the terms of the
agreement," he said at noon.


YTN television news said Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong and Deputy
US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia would meet later Sunday to
try to strike a final deal.


Bush and his South Korean counterpart Roh Moo-Hyun called on
negotiators Thursday to conclude a deal on time with "maximum
flexibility."

