

Thailand's military government plans to unveil a new constitution
this month which it says will guide the kingdom back to democracy
but which critics fear could cement the generals' power.


A military-appointed panel is wrapping up the first draft of a
new charter, which it plans to release on April 19 for public
debate, before putting it to a referendum in September.


The referendum -- Thailand's first -- will be the first time that
the military puts its popularity to the test at the ballot box,
one year after prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra was deposed in a
bloodless coup.


Analysts fear the referendum could turn into a vote on the coup
and the shaky performance of the military-installed government.


"I think it will be a referendum on the military itself. If (the
voters) reject it, it means the public has lost confidence,"
political analyst Thitinan Pongsudhirak said.


"What is more alarming is that they may be trying to widen and
institutionalise the military role in the constitutional drafting
process," he said.


Political parties already complain that they have been locked out
of the process by a military ban on their activities.


So far, the government has indicated that it will only lift the
ban after the referendum, which the parties say will prevent them
campaigning for or against the charter.


While politicians have been forced into silence, the military has
been vocal about what it would like to see in the new basic law.


Last month they held their own meeting on the constitution and
proposed contentious changes like declaring Buddhism the state
religion, and reducing the number of parliamentarians.


Top generals, including junta chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin,
have also said the charter should contain a provision to allowed
an appointed prime minister, as well as an appointed Senate.


Army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont has insisted that
the new premier will be elected, but the issue remains
unresolved.


"That's one of the greatest fears of the new constitution, the
possibility of continued military intervention, the possibility
of a non-elected prime minister, the possibility of a non-elected
Senate," said Giles Ji Aungpakorn, a political science lecturer
at Chulalongkorn University.


The generals insist that a new charter is needed to prevent the
corruption which they say marred Thaksin's government and was
their major justification for the coup.


But Giles said few of the proposed changes to the constitution
would actually help fight corruption.


"They don't seem to be genuinely pushing for political reform.
They just want to tinker with a few things in the constitution
and there's this fear that they will try and prolong their
power," he said.


Gothom Arya, a former election commissioner, said a main problem
with the constitution drafting has been the lack of public
participation, especially compared to the 1997 charter that arose
after five years of wide-ranging consultations.


"We have the impression that they discuss and almost decide on
some issues, and after that, they say, 'oh we continue to listen
to the people'," he said.


"It creates the impression that it is a token participation,"
Gothom added.


The bigger concern, analysts say, is what would happen if the
constitution is rejected in the referendum. The military says
that if the draft is voted down, the generals will simply impose
a constitution of their choosing.


That could invigorate an anti-junta movement that has already
begun staging small but growing protests that have rattled the
military enough to prompt calls from the generals for a state of
emergency in Bangkok.


And even if the new constitution is approved, the junta has
refused to rule out the possibility of more coups in the future.


"If the country plunges into a crisis, a coup can always happen,"
General Saprang Kalayanamitr told Thai media recently.

