

Multiple, adoring, puzzling marriages are forming a rich subplot
to the 2008 battle for the White House, as candidates mine
private lives for political gain, but tiptoe through personal
minefields.


Hillary Clinton, half of America's most analyzed marriage with
ex-president husband Bill, who was impeached over an affair with
a White House intern, leads a Democratic field laced with marital
intrigue.


Rival John Edwards thrust his near 30-year union into the public
eye after cancer returned to haunt his popular wife Elizabeth in
March, sparking fierce debate on their decision to stay in the
race.


A Newsweek poll released Saturday showed 56 percent of American
say Edwards should continue his campaign, while 25 percent said
he should withdraw.


For Senator Barack Obama, wife Michelle is an asset in his
campaign, and she jokes about his failure to put socks in the
dirty laundry, humanizing a rock- star candidate best known for
lofty rhetoric.


Rudolph Giuliani, leader in Republican polls, and wife Judith
Nathan have racked up six marriages between them.


Close behind are remarried rival Senator John McCain, and former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who tells audiences wife Ann
is "my sweetheart."


While divorce has shed its stigma in modern life, no one knows
the political ramifications of such varied private lives, or
whether the days of the perfect "First Family" template are over.


The model White House marriage might be the public love affair
between Ronald and Nancy Reagan, or conventional match-up of
George W. and First Lady Laura Bush.


But even Reagan's storybook was not all it seemed, as he was the
first divorced man elected president.


So far, allegations of past infidelity that dogged Bill Clinton
in office have not harmed his wife's campaign in which he is a
huge political asset, given his popularity among Democrats.


Tensions in the marriage have always been at the centerpiece of
the Clinton story: several times Hillary was the rock who saved
Bill as scandal swirled around them.


An iconic image of the Clinton presidency came when the estranged
couple walked hand-in-hand with daughter Chelsea to the
presidential helicopter at the height of the Monica Lewinsky
scandal.


The Clinton campaign also raises the intriguing possibility that
America's 42nd president will become its first "First Husband."


Giuliani's marital history poses a challenge as he bolsters shaky
credentials with conservative Christian voters, for whom
traditional family values are a tenet of faith.


Last week, Giuliani caused a stir by telling ABC television he
would be "very, very comfortable" with his wife at cabinet
meetings.


He later backtracked, but did use the appearance to refute gossip
that Nathan was to blame for the failure of his previous
marriage.


"I think I should be very, very clear that she was not the cause
of the breakup in any way at all," he said.


Private tragedy for the Edwards family is playing out in public.


The couple appeared arm-in-arm to deliver their somber news in
March, and have said the tragic death of son Wade in 1996
prepared them to weather the gathering emotional storm.


Michelle Obama often introduces her husband at campaign rallies,
and at a Chicago fundraiser in February said she shared his White
House dreams.


"I enter into this next phase of our journey not completely
knowing what to expect, but with eyes wide open, fully aware of
the joys and the pain, the agony and the ecstasy, the sacrifices
and the triumphs," she said.


Romney gushes over his wife in a love letter on his website,
saying: "Ann is an angel. She's a hot angel, but she's an angel
nonetheless. It's a privilege, it's a joy, it's my entire life to
have Ann in my life. My sweetheart. Thank you Ann."


Some analysts suggest the close-knit Romney family, with five
sons, is being used to show how "normal" Romney is, despite his
Mormon faith, viewed with suspicion in some parts of the United
States.


Front-runners are not the only ones with a parable of wedlock to
weave.


Democratic Senator Joseph Biden tears up when relating how a car
crash  killed his wife and infant daughter, and a second marriage
soothed the pain.


Fellow Democratic long shot, 62-year-old Senator Christopher
Dodd, uses late-in- life fatherhood of two young children as a
laugh line.


"By the way, I'm the only presidential candidate that gets mail
from AARP and diaper services," Dodd tells audiences, referring
to a lobby group for retired people.

