

Stuart Pearce is refusing to contemplate Premiership survival
despite a 1-0 victory at Newcastle which could safeguard his
future as Manchester City manager.


Under-pressure Pearce masterminded a deserved win at St James'
Park on Saturday as his rejuvenated team maintained their
10-point cushion over second-bottom West Ham.


However, as Pearce prepares for next weekend's clash with
Charlton he is only interested in looking at the clubs hovering
above City in an increasingly congested bottom half of the table.
Newcastle, insists the England Under 21 manager, are one of
several mid-table teams still flirting with relegation.


"It's going to be very tight until the end of the season," said
Pearce. "Any three teams from eight can still get relegated and
Newcastle are among those eight.


"If you ask Glenn (Roeder) he would probably say that us beating
Newcastle was a fair result and I couldn't disagree with him.
There's still pressure on to win next week but that's the beauty
of the job. That's what makes winning so special.


"Newcastle face a massive game at Sheffield United next week.
With Charlton and West Ham winning it really closes the gap.
It'll go down to the wire."


Roeder, contrary to Pearce's confident assertion, did not believe
a City win was a fair result. And when asked whether he agreed
with his opposite number's view that Newcastle still face a fight
for survival, United's manager revealed: "It has not crossed my
mind.


"Manchester City made it very tough for us and it was a very
frustrating afternoon for all of us.


"Stuart can only speak for himself. I never talk about other
teams and won't change now.


"I now have to make sure that we're in the right frame of mind
mentally to go to Sheffield United."


At least Roeder and Pearce found some common ground with both
managers well aware of the magnitude of the Magpies' trip to
Bramall Lane. Newcastle are now just three points clear of City
and, although it is unlikely United will face a financially
crippling drop to the Championship, the club's next win is much
needed.


A telling failure to create clear cut chances against a mediocre
City side prompted boos at both half-time and on the final
whistle as home fans vented their frustration on Roeder's one-
dimensional team.


And when Belgian international Emile Mpenza scored the winning
goal 10 minutes from time it was almost expected as another
50,000-plus St James's Park crowd delivered a collective groan of
disappointment.


For Newcastle's Nigerian forward Obafemi Martins an inexplicable
goal drought continues and after United failed to score for the
third successive fixture, Roeder admitted: "We do rely on his
goals and we shouldn't have to rely on him so heavily.


"I'd like to see the goals shared around the team and on another
day Scott Parker's disallowed strike might have been allowed to
stand."

