

A little brown mouse dressed in bright orange and blue is the
mascot of a Sri Lankan family business successfully resisting the
rat race of mass production and carving a lucrative niche
overseas.


In sharp contrast to Sri Lanka's 2.6-billion-dollar textile and
apparel export industry which depends on mass assembly line
manufacture, the toys and handloom fabrics earn a tiny fraction
of that amount.


Seventy-eight-year-old Barbara Sansoni has resisted mechanisation
to focus on the labour-intensive cottage industry that gives jobs
to poor rural women and is carving a lucrative niche overseas.


Sansoni, a designer, artist and writer, is the backbone of the
"Barefoot" label that creates one-of-a-kind eye-catching fabrics
known for their bold colours along with soft toys such as the
mouse which was the company's first toy.


"My mother (Barbara Sansoni) hates to use the word 'factory',"
said Barefoot director Dominic Sansoni.


"She says the company is run by human beings."


Barbara launched "Barefoot" in 1964, selling fabric and soft toys
made by destitute women who were being helped by Roman Catholic
nuns.


She and her small design team draw inspiration from the island's
tropical flora and fauna and the nearby ocean.


They turn out sarongs, soft toys, clothing, home linen and bags
and have positioned Barefoot as an upmarket brand sought after by
well-heeled Sri Lankans, diplomats and foreign visitors.


The Barefoot group now employs 700 -- mostly women -- working at
seven weaving centres outside Colombo.


"We take work to women, not women to work," said the younger
Sansoni. "In many rural areas, our weaving centres form the
backbone of the local community."


Using more than 60 colours, Barefoot gives a plain cloth or
"reddha" a distinct identity.


"You can hang the cloth on your window, watch the sun filter
through the fabric to bring out the colours into your room, use
it as a table top or wear it like a sarong," said Nazreen, who
runs Barefoot with her husband Dominic.


Barefoot's cotton and silk clothing lines, especially sarongs,
are known for their geometric designs.


Handwoven cloth is used to make dolls, pink elephants, orange
lizards, purple hippos, yellow tortoise and, of course, mice in
various sizes.


The mouse is "still one of the most sought-after items 40 years
later," said export manager Srianthi Constantine.


An expert seamstress takes two days to make one soft toy. A mouse
retails for between 3.50 and 4.50 dollars.


"We don't really follow a global trend -- just craft toys that
inspire us, or a client request which is then re-designed, using
clashing colours to give it a distinctive look," said toy
designer Preethi Hapuwatta.


Barefoot's main store is an elegant colonial-era house situated
along Colombo's main seafront.


Exports have been ramped up to offset a drop in sales to foreign
visitors as tourists stay away amid an escalation of Sri Lanka's
35-year-old ethnic conflict.


Barefoot mice go to Australia, France, Japan, the Maldives,
Netherlands, Switzerland, the United States and Britain, helping
the company earn revenues of around 2.3 million dollars a year.


International hotel chains such as the Four Seasons and Six
Senses, use Barefoot fabric to furnish their resorts in the
Maldives, the Middle East, Thailand and Vietnam.


The Four Seasons buys sarongs, toys and bags to use as guest
giveaways and to sell at its retail outlets.


But despite its success, the company doesn't want to grow too
big.


"We want to remain always a small company because the lifestyle
that has been created for everyone working is too important to
lose," said Dominic.


"We don't want to automate," he said.

