

England manager Steve McClaren has sent out a defiant message to
his detractors, claiming they will not drive him out of the
coveted national team post.


McClaren came under fire during and after the latest round of
Euro 2008 qualifying matches, where England took four points from
a possible six against Israel and Andorra.


But he was roundly jeered by fans at the Andorra match and faced
mounting criticism in the press for England's lacklustre
showings.


He told the News of the World: "I won't let some hateful mob
drive me out of this job. I have work to do and I'm not leaving
until I've done it.


"Even when the abuse was at its worst it never crossed my mind
that this could be my last match with England. I did not consider
walking away - not for a moment.


"I don't believe I will ever get abuse as bad as that again in my
life, but when I look back on that experience, I feel I have
emerged stronger."


McClaren also revealed how he tried to inspire his players to a
better second- half performance - which eventually resulted in
three unanswered goals.


"When I got the players together at half-time I impressed on them
that if things went wrong it would be me who took the stick.


"I told them I can handle it, so they should go out, forget the
atmosphere in the stadium and do their best to win."


McClaren has taken a hit from former England international Ray
Wilkins, though, who believes the Football Association should
never have hired him in the first place.


Wilkins told BBC Radio Five Live that the FA should have opted
for someone completely new after Sven-Goran Eriksson left the
post following last year's World Cup in Germany. McClaren was
Eriksson's number two.


"I think if you are going to change Sven then you have to change
the situation. Steve was Sven's number two so we are not really
changing it.


"Steve is his own man and he will do the job in his own way but
we haven't really changed too much.


"I personally wouldn't have done so [appointed McClaren], but
that is only my opinion."


Wilkins, who won 84 caps for his country, believes England's
current plight stems from a lack of confidence among the players
but is convinced they will recover to qualify for the finals.


He added: "We didn't do OK against Israel because we should have
beaten Israel. The lads are lacking a lot of confidence when they
play. We should be taking teams like Israel to task and we are
not doing so.


"But we do have the opportunity to qualify. It is in our own
hands and I'm sure the lads will be giving their everything to
make sure they do so.


"I'm sure if we do Steve will stay - if we don't we will probably
have a different manager."

