

A hot year is normally associated with a vintage year for wine
growers but global warming could, by the end of the century, have
adverse effects and already poses a major challenge to vineyards
in southern France and California.


"The first studies on the consequences of global warming show
that warming favours the quality of the wine, said Gregory Jones,
an Associate Professor of Geography at the American University of
Southern Oregon.


Speaking at a conference on the impact of global warming on the
wine industry in this wine-making city, he continued that "in the
future, warming could become disastrous in numerous regions."


He said the threat might come from a series of challenges, citing
problems with irrigation, diseases, and soil erosion resulting
from flooding.


For his part, Bernard Sequin, from the French National Institute
for Agricultural Research, said: "Heat, it's sometimes a good
thing, up to a certain threshold."


The heatwave which hit Europe in 2003 gave some idea of what is
in store in the future.


"(This) was generally positive for the harvests in the north of
France but less so in the south," Sequin said.


The regions most threatened by global warming are those with the
hottest climates, such as southern Europe and California.


If nothing is done about global warming, only the coastal regions
of California, cooled by the ocean breeze, will be good for
cultivating vines by 2100, Jones believes.


Facing this challenge, scientists and professionals from the wine
industry are searching for responses.


Gemma Mollevi, a specialist in Spanish vineyards, suggested
planting vines shallow in the earth, to better conserve water and
shade the grapes from the sun, and developing controlled
irrigation.


"Measures are urgently needed in the hottest and driest zones of
Spain," she said.


In the Bordeaux region, research is already underway, Jean-Claude
Hinnewinkel, a local wine industry specialist, said.


The scientific work is concentrating on how certain varieties of
vines adapt to heat as well as well as counteracting the perverse
effects of strong heat on the taste of the wine, which tends to
be too sweet and alcohol levels can be too high.


Hinnewinkel, a geography lecturer at Bordeaux University, called
on the industry to adapt "rapidly" to the challenges and "rethink
its organisation to adapt to this new reality."

