

Heavy weapons fire rattled the Somali capital for a fourth day on
Sunday but with much less intensity, allowing residents who had
been trapped since Thursday by the pitched battles to flee.


In the Ali Kamin neighbourhood and the stadium area, where the
fighting between the Ethiopian army and Islamist insurgents had
been particularly fierce, residents were leaving their devastated
homes, some with a few meagre belongings, others with nothing at
all.


Shells were still crashing down on residential areas and sporadic
sniper fire rang out.


"There is still fighting over here. There are tanks everywhere.
Shells are landing everywhere and this is very scary," Hussein
Ali, a resident of southern Mogadishu, told AFP.


"There are very few residents in the battle zone. I cannot
confirm the exact casualties, but a lot of people have been
killed and others wounded," he added.


An AFP correspondent saw the bodies of six civilians lying in the
street.


In the stadium area, the scene of one of the deadliest clashes,
homes had been totally destroyed by artillery fire and tanks.


In Ali Kamin, the burnt-out remains of an Ethiopian army truck
could be seen, with the dead bodies of two soldiers lying nearby.
An Ethiopian army tank was in position on the main crossroads and
the charred remains of seven burnt-out civilian trucks could be
seen.


No toll is available for the fighting since the Ethiopian army
launched its drive to rid the capital of hostile militia, but the
International Committee of the Red Cross estimates that dozens of
civilians have been killed.


According to a toll compiled by AFP from witnesses and hospital
sources at least 70 people had been killed by Sunday. The
fighting is the worst the city has seen for 15 years.


Residents said the toll could be much higher as other areas
remained inaccesible.


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali
transitional government topple earlier this year which has
continued to carry out guerrilla-style attacks.


Since then, the Ethiopian and government troops faced a new kind
of threat: Scattered militia often in civilian dress who have
attacked government and Ethiopian positions with clockwork
regularity.


On Saturday, residents said a battalion of Ethiopian troops had
entered Somalia through the border post of Beledweyne to
reinforce their colleagues in the deadly urban warfare that seen
the use of heavy weapons.


The fighting, which has defied international calls for a truce,
shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the powerful Hawiye
clan which has controlled Mogadishu since the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


Humanitarian groups have angrily condenmed the latest flare-up,
saying it has left civilians destitute.


The downing of an Ethiopian helicopter on Friday and the dragging
of dead soldiers through the streets of Mogadishu this past week
was a dark reminder of a failed UN-backed US peace operation in
Somalia in the early 1990s.


The effort to assert power in the failed state is the latest of
14 attempts to restore a functional government in Somalia.

