

About 60 people were killed and 21 wounded in an attack on an
Arab tribe in the war-torn Darfur region of western Sudan, the
victims' relatives said on Sunday.


"We buried 23 people on Saturday and then during the night
another 37 bodies were left in the morgue of Nyala hospital" in
southern Darfur, Mohammed Hammad Jalali, a chief of the targeted
Torjam tribe, told AFP by telephone.


Thirteen people wounded are being treated in the provincial
capital of Nyala and another eight in the nearby town of Kas, he
said.


Tribal members say gunmen riding camels and donkeys swooped down
on their villages to steal livestock.


Abdel Rahman Hasaballah, also from the Torjam tribe, backed up
the casualty figures and added the relatives were refusing to
retrieve the corpses and had assembled in front of provincial
offices to demand better protection.


The Torjam are blaming the attack on the Janjaweed militia, often
used by Sudanese authorities to supress a rebellion raging in the
region for the past four years.


Local officials quoted by the press, however, said it was the
work of a rival Arab tribe in the region, the Rzigat Aballa.


"We think the Rzigat Aballa is responsible for the attack because
it occurred in the area of recent clashes between the two
tribes," said Mohammed al-Ajeb, adding some 500 heads of cattle
had been seized and driven northwest.


Authorities had negotiated a truce between the two tribes in
February after several earlier confrontations.


Envoys from the United Nations and African Union on their last
visits to Khartoum bidding to find a peaceful solution to the
Darfur crisis warned against tribal rivalries complicating the
search for peace.


Since the outbreak of hostilities in the vast Darfur region in
2003, some 200,000 people have been killed and 2.5 million
displaced in the fighting, according to UN estimates. Some
sources say the death toll is much higher.


A 2006 peace agreement with one rebel faction has failed to halt
the fighting with rejectionist splinter groups continuing to
battle government forces and Janjaweed militia groups.

