

Climate change will inflict steadily rising costs that could
become astronomical if greenhouse gas emissions rise unabated and
countries delay preparations for the likely impacts, UN experts
will say next week.


Their vast report will shed light on the costs from heightened
water stress, tropical storms, floods, droughts, species loss and
human disease this century as a result of global warming.


"(The) vulnerabilities could be considerable," warns the
1,400-page document on the impact of climate change.


The report is due to be issued in Brussels on Friday by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), gathering top
specialists in climate science, economics, biology and other
disciplines under the UN banner.


They will meet for four days to finalise the document, marking
the second out of three volumes in the IPCC's massive update of
knowledge about climate change. It is the first such review since
2001.


The bill for climate change will depend on atmospheric levels of
greenhouse gas, which is principally caused by burning fossil
fuels, and on the effort to adapt to its effects, according to a
draft seen by AFP.


Experts disagree widely as to the ultimate dollar figure, as the
calculation has many variables.


The equation changes, for instance, if one estimates the impact
over the short or the long term, factors in the cost of
biodiversity loss or not or attributes damage from extreme
weather events to man-made global warming or to a natural
phenomenon.


"Depending on the assumptions used... total economic impacts are
typically estimated to be in the range of a few percent of global
product for a few degrees (Celsius) of warming," it says.


But there are also many unknowns, it adds.


Climate change can have a knock-on effect in many areas and there
are also poorly-understood triggers that scientists fear could
dramatically accelerate the warming.


To give an indication, estimates range from a benefit of three
dollars per tonne of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere -- mainly
because warming would open up frozen lands in the northern
hemisphere to agriculture -- to a cost of more than 400 dollars
per tonne.


In 2005, around 7.9 billion tonnes of CO2, the principal
greenhouse gas, were released into the atmosphere, according to
the Global Carbon Project, a research organisation.


In the first volume of its report, issued in February, the IPCC
predicted a temperature rise in the likely range of 1.8-4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F) by the end of the century.


The upcoming report makes these points:


-- As the temperature rises, so will the "social costs," or the
OVERALL ECONOMIC BILL caused by every tonne of CO2.


"It is virtually certain the real social cost of carbon and other
greenhouse gases will rise over time; it is very likely that the
rate of increase will be two to four percent per year," says the
report.


Depending on the scenario of CO2 concentrations, "by 2080, it is
likely that 1.1 to 3.2 billion people will be experiencing water
scarcity; 200 to 600 million hunger; two to seven million more
per year, coastal flooding."


-- A modest rise could open up huge areas of land for AGRICULTURE
in North America, Northern Europe and Russia. But sub-Saharan
Africa would lose farmland because of less rainfall while yields
for wheat in South Asia and for rain-fed rice production in China
would also be badly hit.


A very high increase (5.5 C, or 9.9 F) would widely damage crop
and livestock production. Global cereal prices would rise by 30
percent, according to one study.


-- The biggest potential costs will come from EXTREME WEATHER
EVENTS, such as storms, droughts and floods, which are "very
likely" -- a 90 percent certitude -- to become more powerful and
possibly more frequent too.


Their impact will be amplified by a rise in the world's
population, which is projected to reach between 8.7 and 9.3
billion by 2030, of which two billion could be slum dwellers
whose homes are typically at risk from inundation and landslide.


"Costs of major [weather] events can range from several percent
of annual regional GDP" for large economies to "more than 25
percent in smaller areas that are affected by the events," says
the report.


It notes that Hurricane Katrina, which devastated New Orleans in
2005, inflicted total economic costs of more than 100 billion
dollars. A British assessment in 2005 suggested that annual
weather-related damages to land use and property in Britain could
increase by three to nine times by the 2080s.


-- A big rise in SEA LEVELS would be very costly, as it would
swamp low-lying coastal regions and deltas and threaten small
island states, but is considered a low probability.


A rise of one metre (3.25 feet) would cost 944 billion dollars,
almost half of it in Asia, according to the study. In February,
the IPCC said the global sea level would rise by between 18 and
59 centimetres (7.2 and 23.2 inches), but could be boosted if
icesheets melt faster.


-- REDUCING carbon emissions would help to brake the warming, and
PREPARING for the effects will reduce the costs.


For instance, if sea levels rose by 65 cms (26 inches), an
exceptional tide would cause damage of 5.2 billion dollars in
China's booming Pearl River delta; flood defences and other
preparations, though, would cost only 400 million -- a saving of
4.8 billion dollars.


Up to the middle of the century, a mix of mitigation and
adaptation will be effective, "but even a combination of
aggressive mitigation and significant investment in adaptive
capacity could be overwhelmed by the end of the century."

