

Following is a summary of likely regional impacts from climate
change by 2100, according to a draft of a major UN report due to
be published next week.


The report, due to be issued in Brussels on Friday, is compiled
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


AFRICA


Big increase likely in number of people at risk of water
scarcity. Increased risk of hunger through loss of farmland,
decline in crop yield and reduction in growing seasons, falling
fish catches from large lakes. "High confidence" that some large
cities could be threatened by projected sea-level rise.


ASIA


Melt of Himalayan glaciers is "virtually certain" to increase
downstream flooding and disruption to water supplies. Heavily-
populated megacities in delta regions "at greatest risk" of worse
flooding from rivers and seas. Higher temperatures and changed
rainfall pattern will "likely" lead to declines of crop
productivity, boosting the risk of hunger in poorer countries.


EUROPE


Southern Europe "very likely" -- 90 percent certainty -- faces
more frequent heatwaves and wildfires and more water stress,
affecting crops and hydropower. Northern Europe will benefit from
a modest temperature rise by less exposure to cold weather and
from increased crop yields and hydropower potential. By 2020s,
flash flooding across Europe could be more common. Coastal
flooding likely to threaten 2.5 million more Europeans by 2080.


LATIN AMERICA


Major temperature rise and loss in soil water would turn eastern
Amazonia into savannah. Species extinctions likely in tropical
forests. Coral reefs and fish stocks to be badly affected by
warming seas. Risk of hunger likely toward the end of the
century.


NORTH AMERICA


Competition for water resources in western US likely to worsen
because of declining snowpack and reduced summer flows from
mountains. Health risk, especially for elderly, in cities with
history of heatwaves. Risk and economic losses from sea-level
rise, severe weather and storms "very likely" to increase in US
coastal regions, where the population has risen sharply.


POLAR REGIONS


Glaciers and ice sheets likely to thin. Sea ice and permafrost
likely to retreat. Ecosystems likely to change, affecting
migratory birds, mammals and higher predators and encouraging
invasive species. Native populations, notably the Inuit, could be
forced to relocate due to melting permafrost and changing
ecosystems.


SMALL ISLAND STATES


"Very high confidence" that low-lying island states will face
greater risk of inundation, storm surge, erosion and compromised
water resources. Invasive species will become a problem. Beach
erosion and coral bleaching will hit tourism revenue.

