

Derby manager Billy Davies is counting down the days to promotion
after his side strengthened their position at the top of the
Championship with a 2-1 win at Barnsley.


Davies's team are three points clear of second-placed Sunderland
with six games to play after goals from David Jones and Matt
Oakley put the Rams in control on Saturday.


Sam Togwell pulled one back for Barnsley, but they were more
concerned about a serious injury suffered by goalkeeper David
Lucas, who was taken to hospital after being knocked out in a
collision that led to Derby's second goal.


"We're now down to six," Davies said. "It's another game taken
away, it's another game for the chasing pack not to catch us, and
it puts pressure on other teams to go and win matches."


Jones opened the scoring in the 11th minute when he tapped-in
after Lucas had parried a Giles Barnes shot.


Then Lucas suffered his injury when Barnes clattered into him in
the 43rd minute and Oakley scrambled the ball home with the
keeper slumped on the turf. Togwell's last minute strike gave
Derby a few nerves but they held on.


Barnsley boss Simon Davey revealed that Lucas had recovered but
would be out of action for at least 10 days.


Sunderland moved into the automatic promotion places with a 1-0
win at Cardiff that came courtesy of Ross Wallace's superb goal.


Wallace, who come on as a second half substitute, struck in the
72nd minute with a curling free-kick to give Roy Keane's team
their tenth win in 13 games.


Keane, who took over when the team were second bottom in August,
admits Sunderland are progressing quicker than he expected. "I
must say we are ahead of schedule but when you look at the bunch
of players I have and their spirit and desire to work hard it is
not really that hard to believe," he said.


"Okay, we are fulfilling some of that potential a little sooner
than I thought but we just want to get back into the Premiership
as soon as possible."


West Bromwich Albion got their promotion bid back on track as
they won 2-1 at struggling QPR - their first victory in six
matches.


Kevin Phillips had opened the scoring for Tony Mowbray's side in
the 48th minute when he slotted home Jason Koumas's pass. Dexter
Blackstock equalised 15 minutes later and Albion keeper Dean
Kiely then saved Paul Furlong's penalty before Zoltan Gera won it
with a close range volley in the 84th minute.


Mowbray is confident Albion can still get automatic promotion and
he said: "We've got enough matches left to do it and you would
think that 18 more points would be enough."


Southampton produced one of the performances of the Championship
season as they closed the gap on play-off rivals Wolverhampton
with a 6-0 demolition of Mick McCarthy's team at Molineux.


Saints, who were missing eight first team regulars, are just
three points outside the top six after Marek Saganowski hit a
hat-trick. Leon Best and Andrew Surman also scored, while Gary
Breen's own goal added to the hosts' misery.


Dean Windass hit a hat-trick as Hull boosted their survival hopes
with a 4-0 thrashing of relegation rivals Southend at the KC
Stadium.


Phil Brown's side are now five points clear of the drop zone
thanks to 38-year- old Windass's treble and a late Sam Ricketts
strike.


Brown said: "He's made a fantastic return and in truth he's the
in-form striker in the division. He's told me he could keep going
until he's 45!"


Southend remain in the bottom three, along with Leeds - who beat
Preston 2-1 on Friday, and Luton, who held Burnley to a goalless
draw.

