

The only centrist minister in the French government has decided
to support rightwing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy for the presidency
instead of his party leader Francois Bayrou.


Education Minister Gilles de Robien, who was Bayrou's campaign
manager in the 2002 election, said in a newspaper interview
published Sunday that the centrist candidate has failed to spell
out a clear strategy for governing France.


"I have repeatedly asked him over the past two years the same
questions: Is he with the left or the right? With whom will he
govern if he is elected?" Robien said in an interview in the
Journal de Dimanche weekly.


"I never received any answers except 'We'll see when the time
comes'. I cannot support such vagueness. We don't have the right
to leave voters in the lurch."


Education minister since 2005, Robien was the only member of
Bayrou's Union for French Democracy (UDF) party to serve in the
center-right government of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin.


His defection to the Sarkozy camp comes as Bayrou appears to have
hit a plateau in the public opinion polls as the third-place
contender for the April 22 vote.


Sarkozy's campaign has been gathering pace with the two latest
polls showing that he would pick up between 30 and 32 percent of
votes in the first round compared to 27-24 percent for Socialist
rival Segolene Royal.


That would put Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing Union for
a Popular Movement (UMP), and Royal in the runoff, scheduled for
May 6. Bayrou has been holding steady at around 18 percent.


"I belong to the center-right," Robien said in the interview.


"It is with that in mind that I will build with him (Sarkozy) a
plural majority, if he is elected, a broadened majority, a
governing majority," said the 65-year- old minister.


Bayrou, 55, is campaigning on a platform that rejects the left-
right divide that has been a fixture of French politics for
decades, and calls for the creation of a national unity
government made up of moderates from both camps.


Robien is the second high-profile Bayrou supporter to join
Sarkozy's campaign following Simone Veil, the former president of
the European parliament and one of France's most respected
politicians.


During a campaign swing through the French Caribbean island of
Martinique, Bayrou shrugged off Robien's decision, saying he was
part of the "old" team that had put France in a rut.


"I believe that we can't create something new with the old," said
Bayrou.


"This is very good, because I am trying to offer to France a way
to govern differently, and to govern differently, we need new
teams."

