

Australian swimmer Ian Thorpe's statement on a French press
report of a doping test he had last May which returned an
elevated level of testosterone and a hormone.


"Yesterday (Saturday) at 8 am I was contacted by a representative
of Swimming Australia to tell me that there was a report on the
website of the French newspaper L'Equipe that a doping test that
I had undertaken had returned an unusual level of testosterone
and a hormone, and that there had been proceedings in the Court
of Arbitration for Sport between ASADA and FINA in relation to
the test.


"This as you will appreciate was a complete shock to me.


"I had no previous knowledge of any result of this kind and I did
not understand how a test result that supposedly related to me,
which must have been undertaken some time ago given my
retirement, could be being leaked to a French newspaper when I
did not know about it.


"I was subsequently contacted by and met with ASADA (Australian
Sport Anti- Doping Authority) who advised me and I can now
confirm the following:


-- A test that was undertaken in May 2006 while I was in
Australia returned unusual levels of testosterone and a hormone
called leutenising hormone;


-- Both these substances are naturally occurring substances;


-- There are many innocent physiological and pathological reasons
why a test may return unusual levels of these substances;


-- ASADA were in the process of writing to me to get further
medical information from me as part of their routine results
management process when the story appeared on the L'Equipe
website;


-- ASADA will in the near future be sending me a letter seeking
this information.


"ASADA were at pains to reassure me that I have not failed a drug
test and they made it clear to me that any suggestion that is
being made to this effect is just plain wrong.


"They said that the sending of the letter is just part of their
routine processes.


"I have made it clear to ASADA that I will co-operate fully with
ASADA in providing it with the information that it is seeking.


"I have complete confidence that all the medical and scientific
evidence will establish that I am clean.


"I have always been, and remain, a strong supporter of the drug
testing system.


"Most people will probably recognise that I have been one of the
most tested athletes.


"I also launched the Athlete's Passport and I have provided blood
samples to be frozen for future testing in accordance with its
procedures.


"I firmly believe in clean sport and I stated my position
publicly on many occasions -- sometimes to my detriment with
officials.


"I have never cheated and have always complied with my
obligations under the anti-doping codes to the letter. I have
prided myself on this and my reputation as a fair competitor is
the most valuable thing that I take out of my time in swimming.


"This is why I find the media speculation that I have cheated to
be so upsetting. I am deeply alarmed that information about my
test result was leaked to the press before I was informed of it.
The press receiving this information before an athlete
jeopardises the whole integrity of the testing process.


"What is even more troubling is that the test result is one for
which I understand there are many innocent explanations.


"The obligations of confidentiality that are owed to me under the
WADA Code are meant to protect the reputations of innocent people
from being damaged by media speculation while the routine results
management processes are being undertaken.


"I have been deprived of this protection by the deliberate act of
the person who leaked this information.


"I can only speculate at the motives of the person or persons
responsible.


"I would like to finish by thanking the many people, including
many past teammates and competitors of my mine, who have offered
me their support, both publicly and privately at this time.


"I was particularly gladdened by the support I have received from
members of the public on this issue and I am very grateful for
it.


"I would also like to than Swimming Australia for its support, in
particular Glen Tasker and Neil Martin."

