

European economic growth could prove to be stronger than expected
thanks to an "intense recovery" underway, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin Almunia told AFP in an
interview.


In "Europe and the eurozone, I see possibilities to get better
results than those in our last economic forecasts because there
is a pretty intense recovery," he said.


The European Commission already decided in February that its
economic growth forecasts for this year were too conservative and
raised them to 2.4 percent for the eurozone and 2.7 percent for
the EU.


However, economic data since then have painted an even rosier
picture, showing in particular that the Germany economy, the
biggest in Europe, has shrugged off a hike in value added tax at
the beginning of the year.


Figures released on Friday showed consumer and business
confidence in the European economy at six-year high in March,
unemployment at the lowest level on record in February and
inflation increasing only marginally in March.


Despite his optimism about the European economic outlook, Almunia
struck a note of caution about a chaotic unwinding of global
financial and trade flow imbalances, caused mainly by the United
States' huge current account deficit.


"There is a risk of a brutal unwinding of imbalances which can
take the form of a very quick change in exchange rates or a
financial crisis," he said.


"It's not a probable risk, but it's a risk that no one can
ignore," Almunia added.


The United States' huge current account deficit has long fuelled
fears among economists and politicians that it can only be
reduced if the dollar comes crashing down against other major
currencies.


The deficit on the current account, the broadest measure of trade
and investment flows, represents the huge debt owed by the United
States to the rest of the world.


Although Europe was not the source of global economic imbalances,
it needed to be able to speak with one voice at international
forums such as the International Monetary Fund to address them,
Almunia stressed.


"The risk comes from the outside that's why it's very important
that we unite our voices," he said.


He said that it was "extremely important" that the European
Central Bank, the European Commission and the so-called euro
group of eurozone finance ministers had participated in talks at
the IMF on the subject with a single delegation.


Although the global economic imbalances were not caused by
Europe, there were some countries in the eurozone that have
dangerously big current account deficits, such as Spain, Greece
and Portugal, Almunia said.


If the three had kept their national currencies, they would have
been forced to devalue their currencies "with all the negative
economic consequences that result," he said.


In 2005, the last year for which there are figures, Spain had a
current account deficit of 7.4 percent of output, Greece 7.7
percent and Portugal a whopping 9.2 percent.

