

Pope Benedict XVI celebrates a mass Monday to mark the second
anniversary of the death of John Paul II, on the same day the
late pontiff is set to move a step closer to sainthood.


A solemn midday (1000 GMT) ceremony at Rome's Basilica di San
Giovanni in Laterano will mark the completion of the first stage
towards the beatification of the charismatic Polish pope.


John Paul II's candidacy for beatification has enjoyed fast-track
treatment since his successor waived the usual five-year waiting
period, allowing the process to begin in May 2005, the month
after he died.


A "diocesan inquiry on the life, virtues and reputation for
saintliness of God's servant Karol Wojtyla" -- the late pope's
name -- will be concluded on Monday.


A dossier containing proof of his miraculous intercession to cure
a French nun of Parkinson's disease will be submitted to the
Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of the Saints.


The "miracle", if certified by the Vatican body, will qualify the
late pope  for beatification, the main stepping stone to becoming
a saint in the Roman Catholic Church.


Sister Marie Simon-Pierre, the 46-year-old French nun whose
testimony could provide evidence of a posthumous miracle, is due
to attend the ceremony.


"I was sick and now I am cured. It's up to the Church to say
whether this is a miracle," she said at her first news conference
Friday, in the southern French city of Aix en Provence.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is essential in the beatification
process.


Sister Marie Simon-Pierre had been suffering from Parkinson's, a
degenerative disease of the nervous system, since 2001. She has
testified that she was cured in June 2005 after praying to John
Paul II, whose final years were marked by the disease.


A second stage in the beatification inquiry will now begin at the
Vatican.


Later Monday, Pope Benedict will celebrate a mass in memory of
his predecessor, who died on April 2, 2005, aged 84, at Saint
Peter's Basilica whose crypt houses John Paul II's marble tomb.


The site, which is just metres from the tomb of the Apostle
Peter, has become a place of pilgrimage for the faithful, also
feeding a lucrative business in religious souvenirs.


John Paul II who enjoyed wide international popularity, even
becoming known as the "people's pope", reigned for 27 years and
is still the subject of many books and DVDs retracing his life
and work.


Among them is "John Paul II, My Beloved Predecessor", a recently
published book by Pope Benedict of letters, homilies and other
texts written mostly before being elected as his successor.


One photo in the book shows the German pope when he was still
Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger blessing the late pontiff's coffin
watched by other cardinals at the funeral, several days before
the conclave that elected him pope.


Stanislaw Dziwisz, who was John Paul II's personal secretary for
nearly 40 years and is now the archbishop of Krakow in southern
Poland, has also released a memoir, "A Life with Karol."


But the late pontiff's huge popularity in his native Poland has
not prevented the Polish Church becoming embroiled in a crisis
following claims that some clergymen collaborated with the
communist-era security services.


And criticism of John Paul II voiced when he was still alive --
accused by some of excess moral rigorism, and by others of being
too accommodating towards other religions -- did not disappear on
his death.


These "contrary voices" have been taken into account in the
beatification process, Monsignor Slawomir Oder, spearheading the
process, has said.

