

Jose Mourinho challenged Chelsea to produce a perfect end to the
season after their scrappy 1-0 win at Watford on Saturday.


Salomon Kalou's dramatic late goal kept the west Londoners six
points behind Manchester United in the race for the Premiership
title and ensured the club remain in contention for an
unprecedented clean sweep of domestic and European trophies.


That ambition will be tested again on Wednesday, when Chelsea
meet Valencia in the first leg of their Champions League quarter-
final, and Mourinho admits that his side has no margin for error
if they want to make history.


"We have known for a month now that we can't drop points or lose
games," he said.


"We won every game in the Premiership and also the cup ties
against Tottenham and Porto in March. Now we know we need to do
the same in April: we can't lose any of these games in any
competition. That is the life we have now.


"I also still absolutely believe that United can drop six points.
There is three points that we can take from them when we play
each other and then another three points from the moon - a bad
performance, a couple of draws, whatever."


Mourinho's confidence in his side might be unshaken but their
hopes of a third consecutive title had almost evaporated when
Kalou, on as a second-half substitute, headed powerfully
converted Andriy Shevchenko's precise cross in the third minute
of stoppage time.


The Portuguese claimed that the title race "wouldn't have been
over mathematically" if the Ivory Coast forward had not made his
timely intervention but his captain John Terry - mindful of
United's rampant form - disagreed.


"I think it would have been curtains had we failed to win," he
said.


"The manager thought that and the players agreed - we have to
come to places like Watford and win if we're serious about
winning the championship.


"We knew that United had come from behind to beat Blackburn
earlier on but we were half-expecting that. It's disappointing
that they keep winning but we can keep the pressure on them if we
do the same."


Chelsea have perfected the art of winning ugly under Mourinho,
but this was one occasion when their luck appeared to have run
out.


The Blues failed to find any rhythm or swagger against a
spirited, combative Watford and had barely threatened until
Kalou's last-gasp strike.


Instead, the best chances fell to Watford. Petr Cech, the
goalkeeper, tipped over an acrobatic overhead kick from Steve
Kabba and the forward then sliced wastefully wide at the start of
the second half.


Defeat almost certainly condemns the Hornets to an immediate
return to the Championship. Adrian Boothroyd's team are 11 points
adrift of safety with just seven matches remaining, although the
manager remains undaunted.


"Defeat was a kick in the teeth but it was also a step forward
for us," he said.


"The last time we played Chelsea, we went autograph hunting but
we produced a more manful performance today and that was
pleasing.


"Results haven't gone for us but we will keep going. Whatever
happens at the end of the season, today will be seen as a day we
took a big step forward. And if we get a few results, who knows
what might happen?"

