

South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon called for
cooperation between the three Northeast Asian neighbors, as he
wrapped up talks with his Japanese counterpart Sunday, officials
said.


Song has been meeting with Taro Aso at the country's southern
holiday island of Jeju since Saturday. The two-day meeting ended
on Sunday without producing any joint statement or agreement.


During informal discussions Sunday, Song insisted that South
Korea and Japan work closely with China in tackling regional and
global issues.


"The three nations should not just compete but cooperate to
harmonize the mutual interest in Northeast Asia, Middle East and
elsewhere," Song was quoted by a foreign ministry official as
telling Aso.


Song suggested discussing his suggestion with Chinese Foreign
Minister Li Zhaoxing in New Delhi where the three Northeast Asian
nations will attend the South Asian Association of Regional
Cooperation summit next week.


Ties between the three have sometimes been strained over Japan's
militaristic past. Japan invaded China and South Korea during
World War II.


Song told Aso on Saturday that "inaccurate" statements by
Japanese leaders about the past were hindering bilateral ties.


South Korea and China have recently led anger over Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe's remarks that there was no evidence Tokyo
coerced Asian women to serve in brothels for its troops in World
War II.


Historians say more than 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and
China, were forced to work as sex slaves for Japanese troops.


Abe has since tried to cool the row, saying he "sincerely" stood
by the previous Tokyo government's 1993 apology for wartime sex
slavery.


At the Jeju meeting, Song and Taro also discussed how to
cooperate on implementing a February six-nation agreement on
ending North Korea's nuclear weapons programme, Seoul officials
said.


Under the deal, North Korea agreed in principle to disable its
nuclear programmes under a deal which also foresees normalisation
of relations with Japan and the United States.


But progress on implementing the February 13 accord has been
stalled over North Korea's frozen bank accounts.

