

Glenn McGrath played down comparisons between himself and Wasim
Akram after breaking the Pakistan great's record for World Cup
wickets.


McGrath, who had been one behind the legendary left-arm quick's
mark of 55, took three for 16 in world champions Australia's
10-wicket thrashing of Bangladesh at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium.


"Wasim Akram is one of the greatest bowlers of all time, a left-
armer who swings it both ways with the new ball - and so
dangerous with the old ball too," McGrath said after Saturday's
match.


"I guess to go past him is something special and something I'll
always remember."


However, the 37-year-old McGrath, who has appeared in the last
three World Cup finals - the 1996 defeat to Sri Lanka and the
wins in 1999 and 2003 over Pakistan and India respectively, said
his longevity as a cricketer as much as anything else explained
his latest record-breaking achievement.


"But probably the other side of the coin is if you play for long
enough you are going to break records here and there - so maybe
I've just been playing for a long time."


McGrath, the most successful fast bowler in Test history with 563
wickets in 124 matches, is set to retire from all senior cricket
after the World Cup.


On a pitch freshend by heavy overnight rain, McGrath took the new
ball rather than coming on as first change behind left-armer
Nathan Bracken and the express pace of Shaun Tait.


McGrath, never the fastest of fast bowlers, has built his
reputation on remorseless accuracy and late movement.


And Australia captain Ricky Ponting said the New South Welshman's
skills could see him take the new ball in other matches at this
World Cup.


"If we are presented with conditions that will help Glenn with
the new ball, then we'll certainly use him.


"The breeze across the ground was perfect for Bracken and Tait
from one end, and Glenn up into the breeze to use whatever
moistrue in the wicket," Ponting explained.


Australia have now won all five of their matches at this World
Cup and top the Super Eights standings in the race for a semi-
final spot.

