

A rise in illegal arms trafficking has deepened insecurity fears
in Kenya, already struggling to overcome its image as a crime-
ridden country plagued by terrorism threats.


Once considered a relative island of stability amid regional
conflicts in the Great Lakes and Horn of Africa, Kenya has
suffered deadly terrorist attacks, in 1998 and 2002, ongoing
tribal conflicts and a crime wave that claimed 50 lives in
January alone.


Estimates of the number of illegal weapons in circulation --
easily procured in the city's open air markets -- range well
above the 100,000 mark, despite a government initiative launched
last year to curb the availability of arms.


"There are around 140,000 illegal arms in circulation in Kenya
and they are found among the most vulnerable and marginalised
groups," Daniel Kiptugen of Oxfam told AFP.


In a step to fight the spread of firearms, Kenya's security
minister, John Michuki, recently took part in a ceremony to
destroy some 8,000 illegal arms seized over the past year.


Standing in front of a pile of burning guns, Michuki said the
weapons were "fueling the illegal exploitation of natural
resources and abetting terrorism and other crimes.


"The very easy availability, affordability and accessibility of
arms reduces the incentives to find non-violent solutions to
conflicts and breeds a spiral of insecurity," Michuki said.


Police say conflicts along the east African country's borders,
including a two- decade insurgency in Uganda, chaotic anarchy in
Somalia since 1991 and the former civil war in Sudan -- have led
to an increased number of weapons in the area.


"There's always been serious arms trafficking in Kenya but we
also have a problem because of Somalia" where arms are sold
freely, police spokesman Gideon Kibunjah said.


Weapons smuggling has increased since Ethiopian-Somali troops
drove out an Islamist movement from south and central Somalia
three months ago, plunging Mogadishu into chaos and making arms
control at the border with Kenya an issue of little priority,
Kibunjah told AFP.


Kenya, party since 2000 to a regional treaty to control and
reduce the number of illegal arms in the Great Lakes and Horn of
Africa, has achieved little success with its disarmament
programmes, despite much-publicised weapon destructions.


"The forced disarmament process has never worked because we must
address what drives the demand in the first place: competition
for natural resources and a lack of government security forces,"
Oxfam's Kiptugen said.


Tribal conflicts over access to water and land among pastoral
communities in Kenya's north are often resolved by gun battles,
in which communities see gun use "as a way to protect themselves
and their livelihoods," he explained.


A deepening divide between the rich and the poor in Kenya, where
two-thirds of the population lives on less than one dollar a day,
also exacerbates the problem, gun control activist Walter
Odhiambo said.


"This inequity is a catalyst for violence," he told AFP.


A gun-fed crime wave in Kenya earlier this year led the United
States to issue a travel advisory to its citizens, warning of
"increasing incidents of violent crime" after two Americans were
shot dead in January.


While the government increases its promises to step up security
measures as President Mwai Kibaki comes up for re-election in
December, much remains to be done to alleviate fears.


"The impact (of these programmes) is yet to be felt," Kiptugen
said.

