

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad slammed "arrogant" Britain over
Iran's seizure of 15 British sailors even as both sides sought a
diplomatic solution and US President George W. Bush urged Tehran
to back down.


Ahead of a rally on Sunday by Islamist students outside the
British embassy, Ahmadinejad was visiting the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq
war front in the west of the country to mark the anniversary of
the 1979 foundation of the Islamic republic.


In Washington, Bush branded Iran's seizure on March 23 of the 15
Britons as inexcusable and demanded the "hostages'" release.


"It's inexcusable behaviour and I strongly support the (British
Prime Minister Tony) Blair government's attempts to resolve this
peacefully," Bush told a news conference on Saturday of Iran's
capture of 14 men and one woman in what Tehran insists were
Iranian waters.


"I support the prime minister when he made it clear there were no
quid pro quos," said Bush, whose country's ties with Tehran have
been severed for decades. "The Iranians must give back the
hostages."


Most Britons favour a negotiated settlement to the standoff,
according to the results of a poll published in Britain's Sunday
Telegraph newspaper.


The paper also reported that London hopes to send a top navy
officer to Tehran to promise that the Royal Navy will never
knowingly enter Iranian waters without permission.


The survey found that 48 percent of British voters rejected force
even as a "last resort," while 44 percent backed it if diplomacy
failed.


It also found that 40 percent of voters support the London
government's stance of pursuing diplomatic action to win the
release of the 15 without apologising.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the
captives, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they strayed into its territorial waters.


Ahmadinejad on Saturday again called for Britain to apologise.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologising and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," he said, quoted by
the state news agency IRNA.


Tehran has warned against politicising the incident, saying it
had begun legal proceedings against the sailors for illegally
entering Iranian waters, but denying reports of a trial.


But in a sign both sides wish to pursue the diplomatic option,
the Iranian foreign ministry said a diplomatic note it had
received from London in response to its formal protest contained
"different points which could be examined."


However, the ministry also added that Tehran was awaiting "a
correction of attitude on Britain's part."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett confirmed her ministry
had received a diplomatic note from Tehran and responded to it,
without elaborating.


"I think everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we
want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully and we want it as
soon as possible," Beckett said after a meeting her European
Union counterparts in Germany.


On Friday the EU foreign ministers deplored the seizure of the
Britons as a breach of international law and threatened to take
"appropriate measures" if they were not freed soon.


Britain has frozen most ties with Iran, a move Tehran blamed for
its decision not to free the sole woman detained as promised.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, was pictured on Iranian
television "confessing," as was 21-year-old Nathan Summers.


"It is wrong to parade the captives on television... But I cannot
tell you what a relief it was to see my boy alive and well," said
his father Roy, who added he did not believe Nathan's words were
his own.


The foreign ministry in Tehran said "showing videos of detainees
took place in line with humanitarian considerations in order to
alleviate their families' concerns and to show they are fine".

