

Britain's sensational crop of track cyclists are on course to end
the world championships by stretching their new medals haul
record in Sunday's remaining five finals.


Scotland's defending champion Chris Hoy will saddle up for the
men's kilometre hoping to hold off fancied Frenchman Francois
Pervis.


Englishwoman Victoria Pendleton meanwhile shook off the fatigue
of her efforts from Saturday's triumphant sprint tournament to
sail through to the second round of the women's keirin.


Pendleton has won two golds already here, adding the sprint crown
to the gold she won with 18-year-old former BMX star Shanaze
Reade in the inaugural women's team sprint event.


The 26-year-old Pendleton's fifth gold for Britain on Saturday
meant the team surpassed their best ever haul from a world
championships. At Los Angeles in 2005 the team won four golds and
six medals in total.


There are five gold medal finals on Sunday: the men's kilometre,
madison and sprint, and the women's points race and keirin.


In the madison, held over 50km with 10 sprints, Bradley Wiggins
will aim for his third gold of the championships when he lines up
alongside teammate Robert Hayles.


Olympic pursuit champion Wiggins won gold in the individual and
team pursuit events here.


Last year's sprint silver medallist, Craig MacLean, had been
hoping to add more gold to Britain's tally but the Scottish star
will now race for the sprint bronze medal against fancied
Frenchman Mickael Bourgain.


Reigning sprint champion Theo Bos of the Netherlands dominated
MacLean over two semi-final legs and will defend his crown
against another Frenchman, Gregory Bauge, who got the best of
Bourgain in a third leg decider.


Hoy, who stunned the field to win the men's keirin gold here to
add to his silver from the team sprint event, has plenty of
incentive to go out and win what would be his fourth world
kilometre crown.


The 30-year-old from Edinburgh already holds the sea level world
record (1:00.711) at the distance but on May 12 he will head to
3417 metres above sea level, to La Paz, Bolivia, in an attempt to
beat Frenchman Arnaud Tournant's world record of 58.875secs.


Being crowned world kilometre champion for a fourth time would
give his record bid more punch, but ahead of Sunday's challenge
he's taking nothing for granted.


"I'm looking forward to it but it's going to be a battle. Pervis
is really strong just now. He's been focusing on the kilo and
nothing else, so he's going to be really hard to beat.


"So I'm taking nothing for granted."


The only race in which Britain has no medal hopes is the women's
points race, which has no British contestants.

