

Taliban militants on Sunday hanged three Afghans in the town of
Musa Qala, which they have held for two months, after accusing
them of spying, the rebels and witnesses said.


One body was strung up in the centre of the small town in the
southern province of Helmand and the other two at its entrances,
a local merchant told AFP by telephone.


A Taliban commander who identified himself as Mullah Nizam
claimed responsibility for the killings, similar to executions by
the 1996-2001 Taliban government which enforced a harsh version
of Islamic Sharia law.


A Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi confirmed the movement was
responsible for the hangings.


The three were tried in a Taliban "court," Nizam said.


"They confessed they were spying for the government and foreign
forces. We hanged them to set an example for others not to spy on
us," Nizam said.


He claimed the three had in particular spied on late commander
Mullah Abdul Manan, whose forces took control of the town early
February.


Manan was killed February 11 in a precision air strike by NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), which is trying
to help the government handle a growing Taliban insurgency.


A merchant in the town named Haji Mia Gul told AFP one of the
bodies was in the centre of the town, one at its northern
entrance and a third at its southern entrance.


Musa Qala was subject of a controversial deal around September
last year in which the government allowed tribal elders to
administer the town.


At the government's request, ISAF agreed not to operate in an
area around Musa Qala while the elders kept the Taliban in check.


The deal shattered when Taliban fighters stormed the town early
February, apparently angry that one of their men had been killed.
They disarmed the weak auxiliary police and occupied
administration headquarters.


ISAF and the defence force say they could use force to take back
Musa Qala but the government prefers to try to negotiate a
solution.


"The elders have certain sway in that area and they are
communicating with the Taliban in that area, and they are
communicating with the government and right now the situation
seems pretty calm," ISAF spokesman Colonel Tom Collins said
Sunday.


"The government is content to take a longer approach to this and
unless they ask for ISAF support, we are content to support them
in this manner."

