

Britain hopes to send a top navy officer to Tehran to deliver a
face-saving compromise that will ensure the release of 15 captive
British naval personnel, a newspaper reported Sunday.


The British government will send the officer to Tehran to promise
that the Royal Navy will never knowingly enter Iranian waters
without permission, according to a plan cited by The Sunday
Telegraph.


The compromise, which would involve dispatching a navy captain or
a commodore to Iran, was raised at a meeting of a senior
government crisis committee on Saturday, the newspaper reported.


Iran demands an apology after accusing the 15 sailors and marines
of entering Iranian waters illegally on March 23.


But the British government insists that Iranian vessels
"ambushed" the group while they were in Iraqi waters carrying out
anti-smuggling operations in support of UN resolutions and the
Iraqi government.


Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett
have been warned that the impasse may develop into a long stand-
off. Privately, the paper said, officials are speculating that
the crisis could continue for months.


Beckett has said that Britain has replied to a letter from the
Iranian embassy in London, which urged the government to
acknowledge that the sailors had trespassed and confirm that it
would not happen again.


"Everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we want is
a way out of it. We want it peacefully and we want it as soon as
possible," Beckett said.


The newspaper quoted a defence official as saying that the plan
held out some hope.


"We are quite prepared to give the Iranians a guarantee that we
would never knowingly enter their waters without their
permission, now or in the future," said the official.


"We are not apologising, nor are we saying that we entered their
waters in the first place. But it may offer a route out of the
crisis."


Meanwhile, the newspaper said Major General Julian Thompson, who
was a commander during the Falklands War 25 years ago, was angry
at how the British personnel surrendered to Iranian gunboats
without a fight.


He called for a review of the Navy's rules of engagement,
dictated by the United Nations, that they cannot open fire unless
they are shot at first. "In my view this thing is a complete
cock-up," he was quoted as saying.


"I want to know why the Marines didn't open fire or put up some
sort of fight. My fear is that they didn't have the right rules
of engagement, which would allow them to do this."

