

Aiming to challenge a widely-held cliched vision of Iran, the
Amsterdam Hermitage museum this weekend displays a stunning range
of Persian art and relics that highlight how the country's
culture was shaped through the ages by confrontations with the
West.


"All of a sudden, this exhibition finds itself at the heart of
current events," said Mikhail Piotrovski, the director of Saint
Petersburg's State Hermitage Museum, which has lent its Persian
collection to its satellite institution in Amsterdam.


"But today's confrontation with Iran is anything but new ... The
entire history of Greek and Western civilisation was marked by a
permanent battle against Greater Persia," he pointed out.


The show, titled "Persia, 30 centuries of art" and set to run
from March 31 to September 15, comes as negative stereotypes
about Iran flourish amid international outrage over its nuclear
programme and its seizure last week of a group of 15 British
sailors.


In contrast to such cliches about Iran and the Iranians, the
exhibit aims to illustrate little-known facets of the region's
rich and turbulent history.


"We Iranians love flowers, plants, people and animals. The
Prophet Mohammed ... warned us not to have divine pretensions and
breath life into man and beast in images," according to one of
the quotes by 19th century Persian shah Nasir al- Din Shah Qajar
that lace the exhibit.


"But our artists could not resist this temptation, for they
desired to represent the Creation of Allah ... to His greater
glory and honour in the finest forms and images," said Nasir al-
Din, who was shah of Persia from 1848-1896.


In illustration are exquisite Persian bird-beaked vases,
including one that is 3,000 years old. Even today, Iranians
continue to produce beautiful coffee pots in similar shapes.


Similarly, a beer carafe in terracotta recalls how "the
Egyptians, Persians and Assyrians drank beer. Only the Greeks
drank (diluted) wine. They thought that beer was a 'barbaric'
drink."


The Greeks, especially Alexander the Great, were the sworn
enemies of the Persian empire but also served as a source of
artistic inspiration. Greek historian Herodotus -- the first to
collect, test and arrange materials systematically expressed
surprise in the 5th century BC at the taste of the Persians for
usages and fashions from abroad.


"No other people adopt foreign customs as easily," he wrote.


Several centuries later, Iran's inhabitants sought inspiration in
Chinese porcelain, mastered to perfection the different styles of
decorative Arabic calligraphy, and blew glass with such flare
that they won praise even from the Venetians.


Surprising as it might seem today, nudity was not considered
taboo in 15th century Persia, and several of the calligraphies
used to illustrate epic tales from the period show topless women
bathing and lasciviously combing their hair.


Even today, Iran is not as chaste as its leaders like to think,
one of the Dutch curators, Vincent Boele, remarked.


"I went to Iran for the exhibition and was amazed at the number
of women wearing high heels," he said.

