

South Asian leaders meet in New Delhi this week to push for joint
action against terrorism and efforts to overcome mistrust dogging
the trade ambitions of their bloc of 1.4 billion people.


Foreign ministry officials began laying the groundwork on
Saturday for the South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation
(SAARC) summit, which comes amid warming ties between rivals
India and Pakistan.


"It is a landmark event as it enables the subcontinent to connect
to the rest of the world and within itself," Indian Foreign
Secretary Shiv Shankar Menon said ahead of the summit, the third
to be hosted by New Delhi.


"We have a shared economic destiny and SAARC has helped the
regional economies to develop and benefit each other," he said.


The two-day event, starting Tuesday, will be the 14th summit of
the grouping since it was set up in 1985 as a collective platform
to do business with wealthier cousins such as the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and accelerate regional growth
and trade.


SAARC is made up of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.


Afghanistan, to be represented by President Hamid Karzai, will be
formally inducted as the eighth member of the group. Kabul is
seen as a potential gateway to untapped markets in Central Asia.


Menon said the summit would focus on boosting travel,
telecommunications and energy links in the region, home to a
fifth of the world's population.


For the first time, observers from China, the European Union,
Japan, South Korea and the United States will also attend the
summit.


The meeting would also consider a request by Iran to be granted
observer status -- a tricky issue given the escalating tensions
between Iran and Britain over Tehran's seizure of 15 British navy
personnel and new UN sanctions over its controversial nuclear
programme.


India has welcomed the idea, although Western diplomats said they
would let it be known that now is the "wrong time" to hand a
diplomatic carrot to Iran.


The regional body has seen slow development since its formation
in 1985, largely because of tensions between nuclear-armed rivals
India and Pakistan over the disputed Muslim-majority region of
Kashmir.


A South Asian Free Trade Agreement came into effect last year,
but Pakistan's refusal to grant India Most Favoured Nation
trading status has helped keep intra-regional trade mired at five
percent of the countries' total.


Indian economic analyst Sachin Chaturvedi, however, said SAFTA
has given a "vital institutional support mechanism" to increased
trade.


Analysts also say this SAARC meeting could be more positive due
to warmer ties between New Delhi and Islamabad, who kicked off a
peace process in 2004.


"The current orientation of circumstances is far more favourable
for SAARC than ever before," said Indian security expert Uday
Bhaskar.


Experts said the presence of observers from leading countries
which have economic stakes in the region will also put pressure
on South Asian countries to make progress.


Despite an air of goodwill, analysts warned against expecting
breakthroughs.


"There will still be limited progress as many countries such as
Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan are caught up in internal conflicts
that will restrict the way they relate to collective objectives,"
Bhaskar said.


Meanwhile, India, which accuses Pakistan of not doing enough to
halt the flow of Islamic guerrillas into revolt-hit Indian
Kashmir, said the summit must forge ways to combat terrorism.


"Trade flourishes in an environment of security and therefore it
is imperative to fight unitedly the scourge of terrorism and
extremism that haunts our region," Indian Foreign Minister Pranab
Mukherjee said.


"We have a collective stake in ensuring peace and security here
because no investors will come to this region if there is no
assurance of peace and security," he told regional business
leaders recently.


Menon has said India and Pakistan would hold talks on the
sidelines on such issues as cross-border militancy in Kashmir.


New Delhi has also said the Sri Lankan fighting will figure in
the summit.


"We hope to use our conversations over the next week or so... to
encourage the Sri Lankans themselves to find solutions to this
tragic conflict," Menon said.


Sri Lankan security forces and Tamil Tiger rebels have been
locked in a new wave of fighting since December 2005 that has
claimed more than 4,000 lives. More than 60,000 people have died
in the conflict since 1972.

