

Nepal's parliament was Sunday set to approve a landmark pact that
brings former Maoist rebels into government after last-minute
wrangling delayed formal approval of the agreement.


The power-sharing deal reached late Friday will give the Maoists
their first government positions following a historic peace
accord last November to end a decade-long civil war which claimed
at least 13,000 lives.


Parliamentary approval of the agreement had been expected
Saturday, but wrangling over senior cabinet posts forced
postponement of the parliamentary sitting until Sunday.


But the row does not jeopardise the decision to admit the Maoists
into the new interim government, said Prakash Sharan Mahat, a
lawmaker from the Nepali Congress (Democratic) party.


"We will meet tomorrow (Sunday) at 8:00 am (0215 GMT) and sort
out these differences and we will go to parliament around 11:00
am tomorrow to formalise the cabinet," Mahat said.


The two largest mainstream political parties were at odds over
who should hold the most senior positions in the cabinet, said
Dev Gurung, a Maoist leader.


"We don't have any major differences over the structure of the
interim government," Gurung added.


Under the next step laid out in the peace plan, the interim
government will organise elections for a constituent assembly in
June to decide the future of the landlocked country.


The assembly will rewrite the constitution and decide if the
Himalayan nation should keep its 238-year-old monarchy or become
a republic, which is what the Maoists have been lobbying for.


King Gyanendra, seen by supporters as a Hindu deity, was forced
to relinquish direct rule last year after months of mass protests
organised by an alliance of the political parties and the
Maoists.


He has since been stripped of most of his powers, and the deal on
the new cabinet places him under even more pressure.


Under the power-sharing agreement reached Friday, elderly Prime
Minister Girija Prasad Koirala -- considered the architect of
Nepal's peace deal -- will retain his position.


The Maoists will head the ministries of information, local
development, planning and works, forestry, and women and
children.


Maoist leader Prachanda and his second-in-command Baburam
Bhattarai will not take ministerial portfolios, the former rebels
have said.


Although the Maoists have registered their weapons and fighters
with the United Nations in line with the peace accord, questions
persist over their commitment to truly disarm amid accusations
that they are continuing to carry out kidnappings, beatings and
extortion.


Analysts warn that the Maoists need to end all mafia-like tactics
among their members if the impoverished nation's peace process is
to move forward.


With portfolios such as development and planning, the Maoists
will be forced to show results in dealing with international
donors and tackling Nepal's wealth of serious economic and social
problems, analysts said.


"This is a very big opportunity for them to prove themselves, (to
show) their decade-long people's war was fought to change the
existing problems of the state," said political scientist Krishna
Khanal of Tribhuvan University.

