

Saudi Arabia's unexpectedly harsh criticism of the US occupation
of Iraq marked a turning point in the complex relations between
Washington and its key Sunni ally that raises serious questions
about the Bush administration's Middle East policy, analysts say.


Speaking to a summit meeting of Arab leaders last week in Riyadh,
Saudi King Abdullah referred to the US troop presence in Iraq as
an "illegitimate foreign occupation."


US officials were dumbfounded by the portrayal of the costly US
military operation that President George W. Bush defends as an
effort being carried out at the request of the Iraq government to
help stabilize a fledgling democracy.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice telephoned the Saudi
ambassador to Washington, Adel al-Jubeir, to seek an explanation
of the king's remarks.


But she refrained from taking the matter up directly with her
Saudi counterpart, Prince Saud al-Faisal, in an apparent bid to
avoid aggravating the rift.


Analysts saw Abdullah's tough public stance as part of a move by
the Saudi monarch to take the lead of a new pan-Arab movement to
counter the rising influence of Shiite Iran.


Implicit in the king's criticism is an assumption that Bush's
strategy in Iraq is destined to fail and a desire to draw Syria
-- spurned by Washington as an ally of Iran -- away from Tehran
and back into the Arab fold, said Joshua Landis of the University
of Oklahoma's Center for Peace Studies.


"By calling the US occupation of Iraq illegal, King Abdullah
announced that he is seeking a new policy toward Iraq, one
designed for the post-American phase in Iraq and one that must be
coordinated with Syria," Landis said.


Abdullah also met twice with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad on
the sidelines of the Riyadh summit, Landis added.


Juan Cole, an expert at Michigan University, said Abdullah
"thinks Bush is pursuing irrational policies, the effect of which
is to destabilize the Middle East."


The Saudi king is also frustrated that Bush has rejected a Saudi-
brokered power- sharing deal between US-backed Palestinian
moderates and the radical Islamic group Hamas aimed at ending
Palestinian factional violence and drawing Hamas away from its
Iranian backers, he said.


"Abdullah is angry that Bush is letting the Palestine issue
fester and that he pushed for open Palestinian elections but then
cut off the Hamas government once it was elected," Cole said.


In an interview with Newsweek magazine, Foreign Minister Saud
confirmed that one of the kingdom's goals is to restore a sense
of "Arab identity" in the Middle East and to take a leading role
tackling the region's problems rather than follow US policy.


There is a feeling "that in the Arab world things are happening
as if there are no people in the region who have their own
separate will, that there are no people in the region who can
protect their own interests, or even their own territory," Saud
said.


He described the recent Arab League summit as "an effort to make
Arab decisions that are worked out -- not just to meet and take
decisions and go out and forget about them -- to show that when
we promise to do something in the Arab world, we do it."


Saud's remarks amounted to a clear rebuke of Rice for the very
public pressure she put on Saudi Arabia during her latest visit
to the region to step up efforts at reconciliation with Israel.


Rice, who met Saud and other counterparts from moderate Arab
states ahead of the Riyadh summit, said the Arabs should reach
out to Israel by relaunching a dormant five-year-old Saudi plan
for peace with the Jewish state.


She argued that such Arab-Israeli reconciliation would provide
Israel with the security and incentives needed to make peace with
the Palestinians.


But the Saudis countered that it was up to Israel to first make
the territorial and other concessions needed to negotiate deals
with the Palestinians, Syria and Lebanon.


"The people who have to help in getting us from here to there are
the Israelis and the Palestinians, the Israelis and the Syrians,
and the Israelis and the Lebanese," Saud said.


"Once they solve their problems, then you can have peace between
all the Arab countries and Israel," he said. "This is what seems
to escape everybody's attention in talking about the (Arab peace)
proposal."

