

Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr heads to France this
week on his first Western trip since a unity cabinet was sworn
in, hoping to convince a divided Europe to bin its year-old
boycott on direct aid to his government.


Abu Amr is due to hold talks with French Foreign Minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy in Paris on Monday and with Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin the following day.


"The purpose of the visit is to explain to my French counterpart
and to the French government the kind of changes that have taken
place in the Palestinian government and its programme, and to ask
for an end to the siege and to resume normal relations," he told
AFP in an interview.


France, a longtime supporter of the Palestinians, has been the
only major European Union nation to call for a lifting of a
Western embargo on direct aid to the Palestinians following the
formation of a national unity government on March 17 and Abu Amr
is hoping his visit will convince others to follow suit.


"France is extremely important, it is a leading country in the EU
and whatever France says cannot pass unnoticed," Abu Amr said.


The Middle East Quartet -- the EU, Russia, the United Nations and
the United States -- suspended direct aid to and diplomatic
contacts with the Palestinian government when Hamas formed a
cabinet alone a year ago, demanding it renounce violence,
recognise Israel and agree to abide by past peace accords.


Hamas, which has killed dozens of Israelis in suicide attacks
over the years, is considered a terror group by the EU, Israel
and the US.


Following the recent formation of a Palestinian coalition cabinet
-- which united radical Hamas with Western-backed moderates --
the West has eased the diplomatic isolation, meeting with non-
Hamas ministers, but has so far refused to lift the aid boycott.


The EU -- the biggest donor to the Palestinians -- has taken a
wait-and-see stance on the new government, saying it would be
judged by its actions, but urging it to accept the three
conditions for direct aid to resume.


But there has been increasing unease over the effect the boycott
has had on Palestinian coffers.


"We need movement, the standstill is no use any more," Austrian
Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik said in Germany on Saturday as
EU foreign ministers discussed how to continue sending aid to the
Palestinians by bypassing Hamas.


The EU agreed to work "with the members of the government which
are not Hamas, in particular (president Mahmud) Abbas, Abu Amr
and the finance minister (Salam Fayyad)", said an EU official.


Abu Amr, an independent in the new cabinet, is hoping his visit
to France will convince Western donors that the new coalition has
met their conditions.


"My visit to France and my future visit to European countries is
to explain the Palestinian positions and our view that the new
Palestinian government and its programme has met in substance the
conditions... of the international community," he said.


When unveiling the new cabinet lineup, prime minister Ismail
Haniya of Hamas called for a Palestinian state in the occupied
territories, without mentioning Israel, and reaffirmed
Palestinians' "legitimate right" to resistance in all its forms.


Abu Amr said he would aim during his visit to "clear every
contradiction and ambiguity in the Palestinian government's
position."


Ahead of his visit, Israel has maintained its position that it
will not recognise the new cabinet until it agrees to the three
Western demands.


"He should act in regard to the Palestinian government so that it
accepts the three conditions," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin
told AFP.


According to a recent report by the International Monetary Fund,
the Palestinians received a record 750 million dollars in foreign
aid in 2006, more than twice the amount the previous year.


But as the money was funnelled through makeshift channels instead
of directly to the government, years of Palestinian Authority
finance reforms went up in smoke, and the salaries of civil
servants were halved.

