

Wanted: Sugar mamas, or women over the age of 40 with at least
five million dollars in the bank, interested in dating gorgeous
men aged 29 and under.


Rich, beautiful people, turned off by the crop of lonely hearts
thronging online dating sites, are honing down their wish list
hoping to woo soul mates with cash in the bank or looks to die
for.


And savvy American entrepreneurs are cashing in on the trend
creating Web sites or setting up special dating events tailored
for the rich and beautiful.


Some suitors who turn to these sites want looks and aren't
worried about money while others are looking for a sugar daddy
or, as an upcoming speed dating event in New York touts, a sugar
mama.


"Online dating has become mainstream over the last couple years
and prior to that only the boldest, the bravest and the most
desperate were found on these sites," said Jason Pellegrino,
creator of HotEnough.org, a new dating site that only accepts
applications from people who rate eight or more on a scale of one
to 10.


"The problem for a good-looking person who goes on the
traditional dating sites is that you're putting yourself into an
average or less dating pool and it just doesn't work.


"So HotEnough.org is more or less filling a void in the
industry."


Applicants must submit three pictures, including one full body
shot, and are rated by active members who must give them a score
of eight or more in order to be admitted. Once they're in, they
can email other "hotties", as Pellegrino calls them, for 10
dollars a month.


Since its launch in November of last year, the site has attracted
more than 1,000 members and 15,000 new applications are pending,
said Pellegrino, 33, who works as a project manager for a
construction company in New Jersey and who was elated to make it
onto his own Web site. He rated 8.2.


"To a certain degree, the site is definitely shallow, but I think
when it comes to dating everyone is shallow," he said. "We all
have an image of someone we would date and we also have that same
image of someone we would not date."


Samantha Diane Schultze, 26, of the eastern state of
Pennsylvania, said she turned to HotEnough.org after several
dismal experiences with dates picked from traditional dating
sites.


"I was very disappointed with the online dating scene," she told
AFP. "I'm looking for someone that isn't so beautiful it's
superficial, someone like me.


"I want someone spiritual, open-minded, sexy," she added. "I want
a Mr Right."


Schultze said she has exchanged emails with a few prospective
dates on HotEnough but plans to take her time in choosing the
right guy.


"I'm picky, what can I say," she said.


At Pocket Change, a weekly online newsletter that lists the most
expensive goods and services in the New York area, the aim is to
create publicity-filled one- time dating affairs that attract
only the rich and beautiful.


One such event in February for 40 very rich men and 40 very
pretty women proved so successful that organizers are now
planning another one in May, this time for rich women and
handsome men.


Eligible women must have at least five million dollars in the
bank and their prospective dates must be handsome and under the
age of 29.


"I think it's a fantasy for so many men to find a woman, to marry
an experienced older woman and have her be your sugar mama," said
Jeremy Abelson, 26, president of Pocket Change.


"In the first event tailored for rich men and wealthy men we had
multiple men who were worth over 100 million dollars and the
women were also the cream of the crop," he said. "For the Sugar
Mama Speed date we'll probably attract about 10,000 men and about
500 women."

