

Anna Meares prompted emotions of joy and pain on her way to a
world record- setting victory in the women's 500 metre time trial
here at the track cycling world championships on Saturday.


The Olympic champion, who missed much of last season because of a
back injury, knocked nearly four tenths (0.356sec) off her old
world mark by clocking 33.588 for the two-lap event to reclaim
the title she last won in 2004 in Melbourne.


The 500 metre time trial, like the men's kilometre event, is no
longer part of the Olympic programme.


However that failed to hold back the 23-year-old Queenslander,
who less than an hour after her sensational double grabbed a
deserved bronze medal from the sprint event won by Britain's
Victoria Pendleton.


Lisandra Guerra, who won silver in the 500m behind Meares, was
also her victim in the match-up for sprint bronze.


Despite feeling dizzy and out of sorts after her world record
performance, Meares was determined to make the Cuban sprinter
feel the pain again.


"When I got up on that start line my skinsuit (for the sprint
bronze) felt really tight, I was dizzy and I just said to my
coach, 'I can't see straight, I'm all over the shop'," she told
AFP.


"But he just looked at me and said, 'she's just as bad'.


"That was a fair comment, so I thought if she's hurting as much
as I am I'm going to go out and make her hurt some more."


Britain's Shanaze Reade, a track novice who won gold with
Pendleton in the women's team sprint, had set the early pace of
34.633 in the 500m final before being knocked off the podium by
Meares and eventually finishing fifth.


It was Guerra who had come closest to Meares' old world record of
33.944 when she stopped the clock at 34.015.


Meares had expected the competition to be tighter, and said her
hunger to reclaim the rainbow jersey was just too strong to let
such an opportunity go past.


"I would probably say it (the field) is a little easier than in
the past, but definitely not easy," she added.


"Lisandra (Guerra) hit a 34.0 and Shanaze (Reade), what she did
was great.


"I was expecting some more 34.0s and 34.1s, but it's the kind of
event that, whatever you've got,  you've got to get it right from
the start right to the finish.


"I felt that I was going very well. I kind of thought I was close
to Lisandra's time in the first lap because I heard the pitch of
the crowd change, but I was solely focused on just keeping that
gear going.


"It wasn't until I looked up at the board afterwards that I
realised how fast I had gone."


The emotions were obviously intense for Meares, whose win gives
the desperate Aussies their first gold of the competition after a
number of their senior riders flattered to deceive.


Meares said her husband and all their friends are already
celebrating back home.


She might be alone for the moment, but she was still bubbling
with emotion and excitement at her achievement.


"(At the finish) I just had this bundle of energy, I had clenched
fists and was shaking them in the air," she added.


"It's been really hard since last season. I injured my back, and
was finding it hard to get anywhere near the kind of form I had
in Athens.


"So it's so good to come out here and see that I'm better than I
was in Athens. I'm stoked.


"The rainbow jersey. It's so hard to get, and so sought after. I
just really wanted it."

