

Shanghai's new city boss Xi Jinping quietly took the reins last
week amid expectations he will heed the central government's
policies while ensuring the local powerhouse economy stays on
track.


Xi, 53, previously the Communist Party chief of neighbouring
Zhejiang province, was appointed last month to replace Shanghai
party secretary Chen Liangyu, who was fired in September amid the
city's biggest corruption scandal.


Xi's arrival received little media attention, with only the
respected Southern Weekend newspaper reporting he had "sneaked"
into the eastern city unannounced.


His appointment ended months of speculation over who would lead
China's financial hub amid uncertainty over whether acting party
secretary and current mayor Han Zheng would retain the post.


The appointment of Xi, who is regarded as pro-business, has been
widely applauded given the need for an official capable of
managing the complexities of Shanghai's 100-billion-dollar
economy.


But his posting was also regarded as a pivotal step by President
Hu Jintao to ensure that Shanghai, often accused of defying
central government economic mandates, will now toe the line.


"The main reason for the central government to choose Xi is
because he is very experienced in economic development," said
Wong Yiu-chung, an associate professor of politics at Hong Kong's
Lingnan University.


"Of course, the major task for Xi will be to stand firmly with
the central government on the pension fund case and fully clear
it up."


The scandal that led to Chen's removal involved the misuse of
about 400 million dollars from Shanghai's retirement fund
siphoned into real estate and road investment projects.


His removal was the highest-level sacking of a government
official in more than a decade, and demonstrated the rampant
corruption among the party's rank and file that Hu has pledged to
combat.


But Chen's downfall is also believed to have been due to moves by
Hu to reduce the influence of his predecessor, Jiang Zemin, whose
powerbase of officials loyal to him is known as the Shanghai
gang.


Chen was one of the more senior members of Jiang's old guard.


Xi, who presided over Zhejiang's booming economy, is said to not
only have the trust of Beijing, but his pedigree as the son of a
former top government official also means he is perceived as
being less politically indebted.


"Xi Jinping is a princeling and he owes his connections to his
father, who was a premier. So he did not owe much to Jiang
Zemin," said Joseph Cheng, a China analyst at the City University
of Hong Kong.


With Shanghai long under the favouritism of former president
Jiang and the faction that supported him, analysts said Hu would
have risked too much political capital if he had appointed an
overt ally.


"You don't want the choice to be somebody who is part of Hu
Jintao's inner circle," said Lang Xianping, a former Shanghai
television commentator whose show focused on politically charged
economic reform issues.


"It's a neutral appointment, someone who is neither all that
close to President Hu Jintao's Communist Youth League or Jiang
Zemin," said Lang, adding that stymieing the economy of China's
leading city would be counterproductive.


"Business is a part of Shanghai and it cannot just suddenly be
brought to a stop. So you want someone who is equitable and keep
business running."


A foreign diplomat who met with Xi prior to his transfer to
Shanghai, said he expected the city's development to continue
apace even as Xi was likely to seek to better integrate its
economy with the neighbouring provinces.


"Xi is interested in the kind of the development that will extend
to not just Shanghai but around the region, to the provinces of
Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhui," he said.

