

The father of a young British teacher whose corpse was found
buried in sand in a bathtub appealed Sunday to the Japanese
public to help find a suspect accused over her death.


"My daughter's killer has now brought shame to your country. He
must be caught. He cannot be allowed to hide away," William
Hawker, the father of 22-year-old Lindsay Ann Hawker, said in a
statement read before reporters by British ambassador Graham Fry.


"I still respect this country and its people. I know that you
place great importance on family and community links. So, as a
father, I appeal to you -- if anyone can help the police to find
my daughter's killer, I beg you to come forward."


Police are seeking Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, who lived in the
apartment where they found Hawker's bruised and naked body buried
in a disconnected bathtub on the balcony on Tuesday.


Police issued an arrest warrant to question the unemployed man,
who dashed off when officers approached him at the apartment.


Ichihashi is accused of abandoning the body. An autopsy found the
English teacher died of suffocation.


News reports have said Ichihashi had been stalking the young
British woman, who nonetheless agreed to give him a private
English lesson.


"We are grateful that the Japanese authorities are doing all that
they can, but they will need the help of the Japanese public to
catch the criminal," the ambassador said.


"I echo the appeal made by Lindsay's father, for anyone who can
help, please, please to come forward," he said.


The case comes seven years after the high-profile killing in
Japan of another young British woman, Lucie Blackman. The bar
hostess went missing for seven months before her dismembered body
was found in a seaside cave near Tokyo.


A former property developer, Joji Obara, is on trial in relation
to Blackman's death. He has pleaded not guilty. A verdict is
expected later this month.


Blackman's father, Tim Blackman, said in a weekend interview with
Japan's Kyodo News in London that Hawker's death "brings it all
back hugely."


"I just know how devastated these people are and what a terrible
problem it is going to be for them. It's just a great shame that
the guy got out the back door," he said of Ichihashi.


Blackman, who was critical of what he saw as a slow probe into
his daughter's death, said he hoped that case would boost "the
police's enthusiasm to make as much progress as they can in
Lindsay's case."


Following his daughter's death, Blackman set up a group to advise
young people on safety when they go overseas.


"Lucie's death went a long way to making people think very
carefully, or prepare carefully before travelling but, for want
of a better expression, shit happens," he said.


"Unfortunately, Lindsay has been the subject of that and it's a
terrible thing."

