

After a wave of top party postings, Chinese President Hu Jintao
appears to be in full command as he grooms a successor to lead
the ruling Communists, who are bent on keeping their grip on
power.


With the 17th Communist Party Congress to begin late this year,
the process of naming top provincial leaders has been in full
swing with a series of new postings announced in the past few
days.


The most important was Xi Jinping, 53, appointed the top party
official of Shanghai, China's economic and financial centre and
most populous city with 17 million people.


Xi, a rising star with a strong communist pedigree, takes on the
reins of power in a city still shaking from the sacking of his
predecessor Chen Liangyu in China's biggest graft scandal in a
decade.


Other new leaders have been named to the top party posts in the
provinces of Zhejiang, Shandong, Qinghai and Shaanxi, as well as
the northern metropolis of Tianjin.


"These postings are being announced in the course of preparations
for the party congress," a Beijing-based European diplomat told
AFP on condition of anonymity.


"It is part of the methodical work of Hu to build a team around
him that will be announced at the end of the congress this
autumn."


Hu, 65, is expected to receive a second five-year term as head of
the ruling party -- and therefore the nation -- at the five-
yearly congress.


His head of government, Premier Wen Jiabao, will also get a
second mandate, which will be formally rubber stamped by
parliament in March 2008.


Hu was named China's president in 2002, after serving 10 years on
the party's Politburo Standing Committee, the nation's most
powerful political body.


New appointments to the standing committee expected to be
announced at the end of the congress are expected to strengthen
Hu's hand over the leadership and will likely include his
successor when he steps down as China's top leader in 2012,
analysts said.


The current leadership of the standing committee was largely
selected by Hu's predecessor, former president Jiang Zemin, five
years ago.


"This time, Hu is choosing his own men and the recent changes at
provincial level have shown that he has had little opposition,"
said a party official who also declined to be named.


The number one objective of Hu and Wen will be to keep China's
economy on track, while attacking growing social problems that
have appeared during the nation's modernisation drive.


"The upcoming party congress will likely be the coming of age of
the fifth generation of Chinese leaders, defined as those who
were born in the 1950s," said Cheng Li, an expert on Chinese
politics at the Washington-based Brookings Institute.


"The collective characteristics and intra-generational diversity
of the fifth generation of leaders will likely have a strong
impact on the country's political trajectory and socio-economic
policies in the years to come."


Several names have circulated as likely candidates to join Hu and
Wen on the powerful standing committee, including Li Keqiang and
Li Yuanchao, currently the top party leaders in Liaoning and
Jiangsu provinces respectively.


Both rose through the political ranks of the Communist Youth
League, which has been Hu's power-base.


Xi Jinping, the newly promoted party boss in Shanghai, could
become a fifth member of the committee.


Most analysts agree it is too early to predict who will replace
Hu in 2012, but several candidates will likely come to the fore
at the end of the congress.


The fifth generation is also likely to be fiercely loyal to the
one party system, they said.


Major political reform, which has not been on Hu's agenda for the
last five years, is unlikely to be a perogative of the new
generation of leaders either.


They will seek to enhance the over 50-year dictatorship of the
Communist Party, they added.

