

The March death toll in Iraq rose 15 percent with more than 2,000
Iraqis killed, an official said on Sunday, as insurgents and
sectarian militias continue to defy a massive military crackdown
in Baghdad.


Last month at least 2,078 Iraqi civilians, policemen and soldiers
died nationwide, 272 more than in February and grim news for the
crackdown launched six weeks ago and billed as a last chance to
wrest back control of the city.


But Iraqi President Jalal Talabani still hailed progress in
stemming the activities of the Mahdi Army militia of Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, blamed by the US military as the most
dangerous player in sectarian violence.


"The Mahdi Army seems to be following the orders of brother
Moqtada Sadr and there is no action on its part. This is a good
gesture and there are no (Sunni Arab) complaints against them,"
he told a news conference on Saturday.


Speaking after meeting new US ambassador Ryan Crocker, Talabani
also said that some armed groups acting outside mainstream
politics have expressed a willingness to surrender, without
elaborating.


The Americans say that Sadr fled to Iran in self-imposed exile in
January, just weeks before the much-vaunted security operation
began.


He has not been seen in public in either Iran or Iraq since the
crackdown started on February 14. Nor has he appeared at Friday
prayers at his local mosque to deliver one of his inflammatory
sermons since last October 24.


The US military maintains that daily execution-style killings,
associated with Shiite militias, have fallen in Baghdad during
the crackdown, while the car bombings favoured by Sunni
insurgents have continued.


Detailed statistics collected by the defence, interior and health
ministries said there was a significant increase in Iraqi
civilian, army and police deaths in March, when more than 80 US
military deaths were also recorded.


The security official briefing AFP on the figures said that an
average of three more people died each day last month -- 67
compared with 64 in February.


As proof that civilians are always the main casualty of war,
1,869 Iraqi bystanders died last month compared with 1,646 in
February, far more than the combined Iraqi-US death count for
security personnel put together.


In March, 165 Iraqi policemen were killed as against 131 the
previous month, while 44 Iraqi soldiers died compared with 29 in
February, the official said.


The US military also lost 85 personnel in March, taking to 3,244
an AFP tally based on Pentagon statistics as of April 1, compared
with the toll of 3,159 on February 28.


US military losses, heavily outweighing the deaths of Iraqi
soldiers if not police, continue despite Washington's claim that
Iraqi forces are leading the security crackdown in Baghdad.


Last week, outgoing US ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad said violence
in the city -- seen as crucial to the security of the whole
country -- had fallen by 25 percent since US and Iraqi troops
launched the crackdown.


But insurgents have increasingly taken to operating outside
Baghdad to avoid retribution from the 80,000 US and Iraqi troops
deployed in the capital, with neighbouring Diyala province now
the second deadliest area in Iraq.


In the northern town of Tal Afar, for example, a devastating
truck bomb last Tuesday killed 152 people, the interior ministry
said. The attack was avenged by the massacre of at least 45 Sunni
men.


It was the deadliest sectarian violence in the country for months
and the worst bloodshed in the small town of 200,000 residents
since US President George W. Bush paraded Tal Afar as a beacon of
hope in March 2006.

