

An orgy of construction in the Kazakh capital Astana is raising
hackles, and not just among critics of the city's authoritarian
patron President Nursultan Nazarbayev.


Once a sleepy town in the heart of the vast Central Asian steppe,
Astana has mushroomed in the 10 years since Nazarbayev,
Kazakhstan's first president, moved the capital here from Almaty
in the southeast, near the Chinese border.


The steppe city previously known as Akmola has become a showcase
for Nazarbayev's vision of Kazakhstan as a modern, wealthy
country in touch with international trends.


"He worries about all the details, no one cares more than him
about the city's development," said Astana's chief architect,
Sarsembel Zhunusov.


Skyscrapers, bizarre monuments and public buildings designed by
leading international architects, including Britain's Norman
Foster, are springing up all around.


In downtown Astana stands a metallic tower topped with a huge
golden egg.


Visitors can climb the tower and place their hand in Nazarbayev's
handprint, cast in metal.


The tower is perfectly aligned with a white pyramid on the
horizon behind the president's office.


Meanwhile Foster's tent-shaped construction, which will house a
beach and open- air cafes, is going up nearby.


But critics worry that the city's massive expansion is coming at
the expense of safety and quality. They point to a lack of urban
infrastructure, as well as design faults.


In a decade the population of Astana has more than doubled from
280,000 to 570,000 inhabitants and up to 1.1 million square
metres (11.8 million square feet) of living space is being built
each year.


The increased population is putting Nazarbayev's vision to the
test.


While the city's new skyscrapers are ultra-modern, they have
problems with humidity, heating and insulation as local
temperatures plunge to minus 40 degrees Celsius (minus 40
Fahrenheit) in winter.


"Everything looks fine from outside, but once a building is ready
for use, nerve-jarring details appear," said Farit Galimov, a
Kazakh senator who also heads up a builders' association.


Last year a fire broke out in a skyscraper that houses the new
transport ministry building and is known by locals as "the
cigarette lighter" due to its tapered form.


The building turned out to be coated in highly flammable panels
and firefighters could not reach the flames. Fortunately there
were no casualties.


Opposition political parties, which have been marginalized in
flawed elections, have criticized the lavish construction budgets
for Astana, estimated at around one billion dollars per year, as
a waste of the country's growing oil wealth.


"It's too much money, there are more important problems in the
country -- health, education, access to drinking water," fumed
Oraz Zhandosov, one of the leaders of the For A Just Kazakhstan
movement.


The government insists most of the financing comes from private
investors.


In any case observers see little chance of city planners scaling
down building projects and budgets given the 66-year-old Kazakh
leader's taste for the grandiose and lavish.


Astana is due to celebrate its 10 years as capital belatedly on
July 6, 2008. The date chosen is no coincidence. It is
Nazarbayev's birthday.

