

The mounting standoff between London and Tehran over 15 British
naval detainees is fueling tensions within the Iranian regime,
complicating Britain's efforts to defuse the crisis, experts say.


While hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad lashed out again
this weekend at the "arrogant" attitude of the British
government, other more pragmatic forces might be more willing to
seek a compromise to de-escalate the crisis.


"It is important to emphasise that internal tensions are at work
in Iran ... this action may not have the support of more moderate
forces in government," said Henning Riecke of the German Council
on Foreign Relations in Berlin.


Ahmadinejad "is in power but, at the same time, we have seen a
waning of his political fortunes since the end of last year",
added Mark Thomas, from the Royal United Services Institute for
Defence and Security Studies in London.


The Iranian president has been involved in a mounting standoff
with the West since taking office in 2005 over Tehran's nuclear
programme, which critics suspect of being a front for a drive to
build nuclear arms.


Some see the detainees crisis -- sparked by Iran's detention of
15 British sailors and marines in the northern Gulf on March 23
-- as a tactic to divert attention from the nuclear issue, or as
part of that standoff.


"It is possible that (this) may be an attempt to show that Iran
should be taken seriously and that there could be repercussions
if the five permanent members of the UN are too harsh on Iran" on
the nuclear issue, said Riecke.


Others have suggested Tehran could be hoping to exchange the
Britons for a group of Iranians seized by US forces in Iraq --
President George W. Bush said Saturday there could be no "quid
pro quos."


But even before the latest crisis erupted, it was clear that
there were divisions between Ahmadinejad, supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani
and the hardline Revolutionary Guard.


The row over the British captives may now have "got caught up in
the power struggles in Tehran," said Rosemary Hollis of the
London-based international think-tank Chatham House.


"We don't know for sure why they did it ... We don't know if it
was a deliberate political decision at the highest level or a
decision of the Revolutionary Guard for their own purposes."


Many underline the opposition to the hardline Iranian president
in Tehran.


"We've seen a coalition from right across the political spectrum
in Iran, hardliners, reformists and pragmatists against
Ahmadinejad's policy," said Thomas.


"There were three significant figures in Iran disagreeing with
each other," added Hollis, referring to the president, Rafsanjani
and Khamenei.


For some this might explain why Ahmadinejad might seek to fan
nationalist fervour with the detainees crisis -- British Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett accused him of "sabre-rattling"
Saturday -- backed by the Revolutionary Guard,


It is the Guards who are in charge of the area where the 15 were
captured. and, citing a senior Iranian source, the BBC claims
that the detainees are in their hands.


For Thomas, this suggests that the prognosis for a swift result
in Britain's favour is not as hopeful as in 2004, when a party of
British troops were captured by Iran in similar circumstances.


The British Foreign Office is dealing with the Iranian foreign
ministry. But there are questions over how much weight the
ministry in Tehran has in the power play between the hardline and
other forces.


"The hopes of a quick resolution now are not as good as they were
in 2004 just because these hardliners are in power now, and also
because of the more tense situation because of the nuclear
programme," Thomas added.

