

Thousands of Georgians gathered Sunday for the funeral of their
first president, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, who died in mysterious
circumstances 13 years ago after leading the country to
independence.


Gamsakhurdia's body was returned to the Georgian capital Tbilisi
on Wednesday after a bizarre odyssey that saw it criss-cross the
unstable Caucasus mountains after being twice exhumed.


Georgia plunged into chaos and civil war under his rule in
1991-1992, which ended when an armed uprising ousted Gamsakhurdia
from power.


But Georgians appear to have drawn a line under the traumatic
period and President Mikheil Saakashvili praised him as the
father of Georgian independence.


"This is an historic day. We are honouring a man who through a
period of political turmoil led the struggle for Georgia's
independence," Saakashvili told journalists Saturday after a
requiem mass at the Svetitskhoveli cathedral in Georgia's ancient
former capital Mtskheta.


"Georgia belongs to all its citizens without exception,
irrespective of their political past and political convictions,"
Saakashvili said.


Mourners began travelling Sunday morning from Mtskheta, 25
kilometres (15 miles) from Tbilisi, to the capital for ceremonies
outside Georgia's parliament and the reburial.


Gamsakhurdia, a noted author and scholar, was to be buried at the
Mtatsminda pantheon of celebrated Georgian writers.


A prominent Soviet-era dissident, Gamsakhurdia led Georgia to
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and was elected
president with more than 80 percent of the vote.


He fled Georgia after an armed uprising in 1992, but returned a
year later to lead a revolt against the new government of former
Soviet foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze.


Gamsakhurdia died in western Georgia on New Year's Eve 1993 from
a bullet wound to the head, but it remains unclear whether the
wound was self-inflicted.


His body was buried immediately after his death in the western
Georgian city of Zugdidi, but quickly moved over the Caucasus
Mountains to the southern Russian region of Chechnya, where his
widow was living. Russia's war against separatist rebels in
Chechnya broke out soon afterwards and the exact location of his
gravesite was lost.


It was discovered earlier this month in the Chechen capital
Grozny and the body exhumed. Russian authorities confirmed the
identity of the body following an autopsy, but the mystery of how
he died remains unresolved.


The results of the autopsy have not been made public and the
family refused a request that a separate autopsy be performed by
Georgian authorities.

