

After a 6.O percent growth spurt last year, Ireland's "Celtic
Tiger" economy may have hit its peak and could now falter,
economists are warning here.


They argue that for the good times to last, the economy will have
to become more competitive and productive, exports will have to
grow and a long-running property boom that has spawned thousands
of bricks-and-mortar millionaires will have to be wound down in
an orderly manner.


Last year's growth was the highest for seven years. Ireland's
leading economic think-tank, the Economic and Social Research
Institute (ESRI), has forecast that expansion in the country's
gross domestic product will now fall to 5.4 percent this year and
3.9 percent in 2008.


Finance Minister Brian Cowen, whose Fianna Fail-Progressive
Democrat coalition government faces an election before June, is
not far behind with a prediction of 5.3 percent.


One of the country's leading stockbrokers, Davys, has cut its
forecast for this year from 5.0 to 4.5 percent and expects a
deceleration to 3.0 percent in 2008.


Extraordinary new property data that has just emerged from the
2006 Census has caused additional worries. Economists were taken
aback by the disclosure that four out of ten of the houses built
since 2002 are empty.


Overall, about 15 percent of the total housing stock -- or
266,000 housing units -- was estimated to be vacant on census day
last April.


Economists are mulling the implications for property prices of
such a huge number of "empty nests."


The ESRI says homes are over-valued by 15 percent but argues that
a soft landing is nonetheless under way.


ESRI economist Ide Kearney said the over-valuation has been
driven by the huge increase in the purchase of vacant dwellings.


"That is the puzzle that has come out in the census figures. We
need to answer the puzzle of why people are buying those houses.
Is it for holiday homes?


"If it is for holiday homes we don't really need to worry about
the housing market," she told RTE state radio.


"If the only reason they are buying them is because they expect
house prices to continue to rise...then, yes, that is a worry."


House prices have soared by 270 percent in ten years but growth
slowed to just 0.1 percent a month in November, December and
January according to the country's leading index.


Alan Ahearne, who is an economics lecturer at University College
Galway and who worked for seven years as a senior economist with
the US Federal Reserve -- the US central bank -- is gloomy about
house prices.


Ahearne, who has studied 40 housing price boom-to-bust cycles in
25 industrial countries since 1970, said the Irish property
market was at "a very delicate stage."


"My view is that property here is very over-valued and there is a
very high risk, not just of a correction, but of a hard landing
given the experiences of other countries."


He told AFP that what stood out in his study was the importance
of interest rates were.


"Very typically, about a year or a year and a half before house
prices would peak and start to turn down, interest rates would
rise. Interest rates did enormous damage to housing markets."


Ahearne believes close to a third of Ireland's 6.0 percent GDP
growth last year could have been a direct result of construction
activity.


"You also have all the multiplier effects. People who are working
in construction go into a shop and spend some of the money they
earned. That turns up as consumption but it is obviously directly
related to construction activity.


"It is much harder to quantify that (the multiplier effect) but
you are talking about probably half of the growth last year being
either directly or indirectly linked to construction.


"It is high risk. You know it is not sustainable. So it has to
slow, to adjust. The worry I have had for a while is that those
adjustments are rarely orderly and gradual.


"They are much more likely to be abrupt and disorderly. In other
words, a hard landing.


"If you look at housing investments of any country, it is never a
smooth series, it is always a very volatile series. You tend to
get booms and you tend to get busts."


Ahearne, who is also an expert in economic divergence within the
euro area, said an added problem in Ireland was that it had no
control over interest rates.


It would only be a coincidence if the cost of mortgages and other
factors lined up in a way that would lead to a soft landing.


Job layoffs this year from across the spectrum of the economy --
from hotels to high tech companies -- have also rocked Irish
confidence despite the fact that net job creation continues to
grow.


The ESRI warns the economy has been losing competitiveness since
2002 and argues it is now "imperative" to halt the trend.


Ahearne agrees. He said the world economy has been growing at its
fastest level since the late 1960s but Irish exports were only up
2.0 percent last year.


Ahearne is also concerned that the dollar will weaken further
against the euro and in Ireland, with its open economy and
reliance on US industrial investment, it will make Irish exports
more expensive and less competitive.


In examining the sustainability of the current boom, the ESRI
shows how increases in Ireland's consumer price index (CPI) that
measures inflation tend to feed rapidly into wage increases.


"A repeat of this phenomenon in the current context of high
growth in the CPI would be particularly damaging to
competitiveness," it warns.

