

Islamist students were to rally outside Britain's embassy in
Tehran on Sunday after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad slammed
"arrogant" Britain over Iran's seizure of 15 British sailors.


Even as both sides in the continuing standoff sought to keep open
the door to diplomacy, Iranian media reported that Iran has
formally protested at what it called a "British shootout" around
its consulate in the southern Iraqi port city of Basra on
Thursday.


"Following British forces' movements and shootout around the
Iranian consulate in Basra the foreign ministry submitted a note
of protest to the British embassy in Tehran" on March 30, the
ministry said in a statement.


The British military denied any such incident occurred, saying
its soldiers had come under fire during a routine patrol near the
consulate but did not leave their vehicles.


Ahmadinejad was outside Tehran on Sunday, visiting the 1980-1988
Iran-Iraq war front in the west of the country to mark the
anniversary of the 1979 foundation of the Islamic republic.


On Saturday he again called for Britain to apologise.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologising and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," he said, quoted by
the state news agency IRNA.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the
captives, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they had strayed into its territorial waters on March 23.


US President George W. Bush called Iran's seizure of the 15
Britons inexcusable and demanded the release of the "hostages".


"It's inexcusable behaviour and I strongly support the (British
Prime Minister Tony) Blair government's attempts to resolve this
peacefully," Bush told a news conference on Saturday.


"I support the prime minister when he made it clear there were no
quid pro quos," said Bush, whose country's ties with Tehran have
been severed for decades. "The Iranians must give back the
hostages."


The United States has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could
be swapped for five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq
since January.


On Friday the European Union foreign ministers deplored the
seizure of the Britons as a breach of international law and
threatened to take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed
soon.


The current EU president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
visiting Iran's arch- foe Israel on Sunday, said Britain has
Germany's full backing.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.


In Pakistan, Mushahid Hussain Sayed, a key ruling party figure,
told Iranian ambassador Mashallah Shakiri the 14 men and one
woman should not be punished for the "mistakes and wrong policies
of their government."


But in a sign both sides wish to pursue the diplomatic option,
the Iranian foreign ministry said a note it had received from
London in response to its formal protest contained "different
points which could be examined."


However, it also added that Tehran was awaiting "a correction of
attitude on Britain's part."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett confirmed her ministry
had received a diplomatic note from Tehran and responded to it,
without elaborating.


"I think everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we
want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully and we want it as
soon as possible," she said after meeting her EU counterparts in
Germany.


Most Britons favour a negotiated settlement, according to the
results of a poll published in Britain's Sunday Telegraph
newspaper.


The paper also reported that London hopes to send a top navy
officer to Tehran to promise that the Royal Navy will never
knowingly enter Iranian waters without permission.


Word of such a plan emerged as officials were privately
speculating that the crisis could last for months, the newspaper
said.

