

A contentious plan to grant supervised independence to the
Serbian province of Kosovo will be reviewed by the Security
Council Tuesday in talks that diplomatic sources say could go on
for weeks.


UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari is to brief the 15-member body
on his recommendations for the Albanian-majority breakaway
province which were unveiled last Monday amid strong opposition
from Belgrade and Moscow.


"Kosovo is going to be the big topic in April at the Security
Council," one Western diplomat predicted, estimating that
discussions were likely to last "several weeks."


Tuesday's session is mainly for members to listen to Ahtisaari's
plan, which is backed by the United States and European Union,
and for preliminary discussions on the matter. No text is to be
circulated and no decisions made.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


"Independence is the only option for a politically stable and
economically viable Kosovo," Ahtisaari said in his report, hailed
by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders who represent 90 percent of
the province's two million people.


In his report, Ahtisaari made it clear that in the initial phase,
international supervision of an independent Kosovo would be
required.


Under the scheme, the province would adopt a constitution within
120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time the
mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


General and local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.


An international civilian representative, who will be a European
Union representative, would oversee the implementation of the
plan while having no direct role in administering Kosovo.


He will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU police
force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas related
to the rule of law."


That international supervisory role "would come to an end only
when Kosovo has implemented the measures set forth in the
settlement proposal," the UN mediator added.


However Serbia, which views Kosovo as the birthplace of its
civilization, remained bitterly opposed to its proposed
independence.


Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is to attend the
Security Council session, his office said Friday.


Russia, a close ally of Belgrade and a veto-wielding council
member, has also stepped up its opposition to the Ahtisaari plan
ahead of the formal debate in the Council on Kosovo's future
status.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that Ahtisaari
"will fail" if he pursues his current plan for Kosovo.


"This problem can't be solved without taking into account the
positions of the two conflicting sides, Belgrade and Pristina.
Ahtisaari has decided to ignore them, but I think he will fail,"
Lavrov was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying on Thursday.


Lavrov has even suggested Ahtisaari be replaced as UN chief
mediator.


In Tuesday's talks, Security Council members are expected to
consider a Russian proposal to send a fact-finding mission to
Belgrade and Kosovo to take stock of the situation on the ground.


One diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity expected the
idea to be received favorably because such a trip could be useful
in helping non-permanent members of the Security Council to form
an opinion.


Such a notion would particularly apply to south Africa, Ghana and
the Democratic Republic of Congo, who are torn between two
important principles to their continent: non-interference in a
state's affairs versus the right to self- determination, the
diplomat said.

