

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the current EU president, was to
hold talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders on Sunday, aiming
to keep up efforts to revive stalled Middle East peace talks.


Merkel held talks behind closed doors with Israel's Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert late Saturday, after arriving to the Jewish
state from neighbouring Jordan where she met King Abdullah II.


On Sunday, Merkel will also meet with senior Israeli officials in
Jerusalem and Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas in the West Bank
town of Ramallah, before holding a second round of talks with
Olmert.


The 52-year-old German chancellor will also visit the Yad Vashem
Holocaust Memorial museum in Jerusalem and receive an honorary
doctorate from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.


Merkel's tour comes amid increased international diplomacy aiming
to jumpstart the dormant Middle East peace process and following
last week's Arab summit that revived a five-year-old peace plan
for the region.


At a news conference following their meeting in Jordan, King
Abdullah said they had talked "first and foremost about the need
to build on the momentum of the Arab summit to move the Arab
peace initiative forward."


Merkel said on Friday that the Arab League agreement had "created
a lot of movement" in the region but warned against over-
optimism, saying a "very difficult path" lay ahead.


The Arab proposal offers Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and
allows for the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel welcomed the prospect of dialogue with moderate Arab
states, but has stopped short of endorsing the blueprint as is,
saying negotiations were needed on the refugee issue.


In her meeting with Abbas, Merkel will carry an uncompromising
message on behalf of Europe that unless the new Palestinian unity
government implements the conditions laid down by the Quartet on
the Middle East, the international community will not work with
it.


The new coalition, which united radical Hamas with Western-backed
moderates, has refused to explicitly agree to demands set by the
Quartet -- the EU, Russia, the United Nations and the United
States -- to renounce violence, recognise Israel and abide by
past peace accords.


The Quartet slapped a diplomatic and direct aid embargo on the
Palestinian government last year after Hamas, considered a terror
group in the West, formed a cabinet alone.


Following the inauguration of a unity cabinet on March 17, the EU
-- the biggest aid donor to the Palestinians -- has eased the
diplomatic freeze-out of the Palestinians, meeting with non-Hamas
ministers, but has not lifted the embargo on direct aid to the
cabinet.


Merkel's trip to the region follows recent visits by US Secretary
of State Condoleezza Rice and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.
The chancellor will wrap up her three-day tour in Lebanon.

