

China appears headed for a fresh trade spat with the United
States, denouncing new US pressure on its trade policies after
Washington said it would slap sanctions on imports of Chinese
coated paper.


US complaints that Chinese goods benefit from too many state
subsidies are unlikely to fade away in the immediate future,
especially with campaigning well under way ahead of the 2008 US
presidential election.


Last year, the United States recorded a record trade deficit with
China of 232 billion dollars -- more than a quarter of its total
imbalance.


"This action of the US side goes against the consensus reached by
the leaders of both countries to resolve differences through
dialogue," commerce ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei said at the
weekend, voicing China's "strong dissatisfaction."


"China strongly requires the US side to reconsider the decision
and make prompt changes," Wang said.


The comments followed Washington's announcement Friday that it
would slap duties on imports of Chinese coated paper, reversing a
23-year-old US policy of not applying duties to subsidised goods
from so-called non-market economies such as China.


Coated paper is paper which has been treated to give it certain
qualities, including weight and surface gloss, smoothness or ink
absorbency.


In February, Washington already lodged a complaint with the World
Trade Organisation over Chinese government subsidies to several
industrial sectors, including paper.


Imposing duties, however, marks a shift as until now Washington
appears to have preferred dialogue.


In December, US Trade Representative Susan Schwab had warned that
it "will not hesitate to use the range of tools available
including WTO dispute settlement procedures and the application
of US trade laws" if negotiations failed to bear fruit with
China, which acceded to the WTO in 2001.


The United States has made a mistake because "this (coated paper)
industry does not benefit so much from subsidies," according to
Mei Xinyu, of the Chinese Academy for International Trade and
Economic Cooperation which comes under the commerce ministry.


"The United States remains faithful to its unilateralism," he
told AFP.


US authorities, however, charge that Chinese exporters received
government subsidies of between 10.90 percent and 20.35 percent.


In return, they have imposed equivalent countervailing duties on
Chinese high- gloss paper imports entering the United States.


With the US presidential election approaching, the pressure is
unlikely to ease, said economist Hu Xingdou of Beijing's
Institute of Technology.


"This trade protection decision by the United States does not
conform with the WTO agreement," he told AFP.


"Next year, it will be the presidential election, the government
is under pressure from the trade unions and wants to win the
support of the blue collar workers.


"The increase in cheap Chinese products which affects the
American domestic market and leads to a certain loss of jobs is
in fact the inevitable result of globalisation. The decision to
apply compensatory duties is unjust."


However, Hu said China also bore its share of responsibility and
must "reconsider its export trade model" and "change its policy
of handing over taxes."


"It is necessary to change from exports of low-cost, labour-
intensive products in favour of those having recourse to
technology and high added value," he said.


"You cannot only seek quantity of exports."


A stream of US delegations to China over the past few months have
also called on Beijing to increase reforms in the financial
sector to give greater flexibility to the yuan, which is accused
of being undervalued to promote Chinese exports, but so far they
have met with little success.

