

Palestinian journalists announced a three-day strike on Sunday in
protest at what they called their government's inadequate
response to the suspected kidnap of a British journalist.


The boycott, during which they plan not to cover any government
activities, will begin on Tuesday at 11 am (0900 GMT) with a
rally by foreign and local journalists in the West Bank city of
Ramallah, the head of the Palestinian Journalists' Union Naim
Tubasi told AFP.


Veteran BBC correspondent Alan Johnston was kidnapped at gunpoint
in the Gaza Strip 20 days ago -- the longest period of captivity
yet endured by a foreign civilian hostage in the unruly coastal
territory.


As his captivity neared the three-week mark, concern for his
well-being mounted.


"Our colleague Alan Johnston's kidnap is entering its fourth
week," Tubasi said. "This makes us think there is a danger to his
life and we are very worried."


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and the Islamist Hamas, the
majority party in the new unity government, have condemned the
abduction and pledged to work for Johnston's release.


But Tubasi on Sunday called the government's response inadequate.


"We hold the Palestinian Authority and the government responsible
because up until now they have not made sufficient efforts," he
added.


"What they are waiting for? Where are the security services?
Where are the authorities? Where is the Palestinian police?"


Johnston, the British broadcaster's main correspondent in Gaza
for the past three years, has been neither seen nor heard from
since gunmen forced him out of his car while the 44-year-old was
driving home from work on March 12.


An experienced reporter, Johnston was previously posted to
Afghanistan and Uzbekistan, and was one of the few Western
journalists still based in the increasingly lawless Gaza Strip.


Johnston's was the latest in a spate of kidnappings that has seen
around 20 foreigners seized over the past year.


Previously, the longest period of captivity spent in the Gaza
Strip by foreign hostages was two weeks last August when two
journalists for the US-based Fox News television network were
abducted.

