

Retired Australian swimmer Ian Thorpe will front the media Sunday
as he fights to clear his name following claims that he returned
"abnormal levels" of two banned substances in a drug test.


Thorpe, 24, was named by French sports newspaper L'Equipe as the
athlete responsible for a sample last May that showed abnormally
high readings for naturally-occurring hormones.


FINA, which did not name Thorpe, revealed Saturday it was aiming
to reopen the case although the Australian Sports Anti-Doping
Authority (ASADA) insisted it had never been closed.


ASADA also emphasised there was no evidence of an anti-doping
violation so far.


With his reputation under siege, Thorpe has scheduled a press
conference for 0500 GMT on the sidelines of the world swimming
championships here.


The Sunday Herald Sun newspaper quoted a close of friend of his
saying Thorpe was "shattered and distressed that an allegation
like this can be unfairly levelled against him".


Thorpe and his manager David Flaskas reportedly spent most of
Saturday afternoon discussing legal options with lawyers and
would continue the talks Sunday morning before he faces the
world's media.


Many in the swimming community have defended Thorpe and condemned
the slur.


His father told the Sunday Age newspaper his son was not a drug
cheat.


"As a father, it tears me apart hearing the rubbish they say. He
has been clean all his life; he's done everything right," Ken
Thorpe said from his Sydney home.


"Ian never even used to take antibiotics. The only way he has got
where he has is through hard work."


The elder Thorpe also attacked FINA for failing to conduct blood
testing which he said would have cleared his son of any
wrongdoing.


"(Ian) has always put his hand up to do blood testing," he said.


"I'm just very disappointed in FINA that they don't want to take
blood testing, and they let these allegations go on.


"If they were genuinely cleaning up the Olympic Games they would
do blood tests. It's just ridiculous. There are a lot of drug
allegations that go on and a lot of people get tarnished."


No blood tests are being conducted at the world championships
with FINA ruling them too expensive.


Thorpe dominated world swimming for eight years, smashing records
and accumulating an astonishing tally of Olympic and world titles
before he announced his surprise retirement on November 21 last
year.


He is Australia's most decorated Olympian with five gold medals
at the 2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens Games.

