

Smugglers are sapping Peru's ancient heritage, with statues, gold
finery and other treasures stolen to meet orders on the Internet
or sold on the street, Peruvian and international authorities
said.


Peru is the country worst hit in the region by thefts of ancient
objects -- far more than Bolivia and Mexico, two other nations
with a heritage of pre-Colombian antiquities, an Interpol
official here, Eladio Zamudio, recently told AFP.


The international police agency is investigating several cases of
stolen art objects from Peru which have passed through the
country's porous borders to end up in Europe, the United States
and elsewhere in South America.


The head of the National Culture Institute, Cecilia Bakula, has
denounced "the organized gangs that are rampant not only in drugs
but in stealing cultural heritage."


In one symbolic case, police in March caught thieves trying to
sell an old flag to an antiquarian in Lima. It was the same one
the Peruvian leader Jose de San Martin had used when proclaiming
independence from Spain in 1820.


The western South American nation is rich in antiquities from
before the Inca empire, which ruled much of the region for
hundred of years up to the 16th century, as well as artworks
dating from the subsequent Spanish colonial times.


Its soil yields numerous fossils and archaeological finds -- many
of which are looted by so-called huaqeros, smugglers who swoop on
remote sites at night. This carries a five-year jail term but
looters often get away with a fine.


Authorities say they lack the power and the resources to fight
back.


"It's difficult to guard more than 10,000 archaeological sites,"
said Blanca Alva, the institute's official in charge of defending
heritage. Among Peru's private museums, some 300 do not have
their holdings inventoried, she added.


After looting, the first point of sale is often children hawking
items on the street to tourists. These valuables have varied from
antique fabrics to 15 -centimeter-long (six-inch-) teeth from a
megalodon, a type of prehistoric shark.


Orders for objects also come from the Internet, Interpol said. A
museum near Lima removed from its displays a wooden statue of the
mythological god Pachacamac, fearing it would be stolen after
offers to buy it were made online.


In remote parts of the Andes mountains, Alva said, colonial-era
churches have also been stripped of their finery. In the central
Mantaro Valley, chapels are missing their altarpieces, pictures
and other religious treasures.


"Everything has been stolen, including the gold and silver
chalices," said Alva.


The stolen goods are trafficked far afield. Interpol is tracking
cases of items that have wound up in Belgium, France, Spain,
Brazil, Uruguay and the United States.


Several years ago an altar weighing almost half a ton disappeared
from the church of Challapampa in the southeastern city of Puno
and was smuggled across the Bolivian border. It wound up in a
Texas art gallery, but was returned when Peruvian authorities
intervened.


A golden headdress dating from at least as far back as the eighth
century and valued at one million dollars was recovered in London
in 2006.


Also in 2006, customs agents seized 114 envelopes containing the
separated contents of a 397-page 16th century manuscript stolen
from Peru's national archives, said John Alarcon Herrera, head of
the postal customs authority.


Other smugglers' tricks include painting over colonial-era
pictures -- favorite canvases include works from the so-called
Cuzco movement of religious painting.


Antique pots, even while being smuggled, are sometimes made to
serve as containers for cocaine.

