

US President George W. Bush early Sunday lamented the loss of
life in tornado- ravaged Greensburg, Kansas, and promised federal
aid in the rebuilding effort.


"I'm confident this community will be rebuilt, to the extent we
can help, we will. The most important thing now is for our
citizens to ask for the good Lord to comfort those who hurt,"
said the president, in brief remarks after attending church
services.


Bush said he had spoken to top state officials about the
devastation, after a giant tornado flattened the southwestern
Kansas community there late Friday, killing at least nine people
and injuring more than 60 others.


"They said to me it's hard to describe how bad this community was
hit. I have declared a major disaster for that community and I
hope that helps," he said in comments outside the St. John's
Episcopal Church.


He hailed the "pioneer spirit" that built the Midwest, and which
he said Kansans would draw upon to rebuild, with government
support.


"It's going to take a long time for the community to recover. And
so we'll help in any way we can."


The massive tornado made a direct hit on the small prairie town
late Friday, ripping homes off their foundations and even
damaging below-ground shelters, according to reports.


"It is no understatement or overstatement to say that this town
has been wiped off the face of the earth," Senator Pat Roberts,
who toured the area on ground and from the air with other Kansas
lawmakers, told CNN.


"This is just as bad as it gets."


Three other people were killed near Greensburg, officials and
media said, while scores were reported injured and dozens
hospitalized, some in critical condition.


The White House said the presidential declaration makes federal
funding available to affected individuals across Kiowa County,
where Greensburg is located.


"Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home
repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and
other programs to help individuals and business owners recover
from the effects of the disaster," White House press secretary
Tony Snow said in a statement.


The US National Weather Service, meanwhile, warned that more
severe weather was possible for the central plains region Sunday.


Some 90 percent of local homes and buildings were destroyed in
Greensburg, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) west of Wichita, and
communications in the area were severely disrupted.


The town's 1,400 residents were evacuated and ordered not to come
back as emergency squads continued to comb the wreckage with
tractors and dogs to see if any survivors remained.


Water, electric and gas utilities were all shut off. An overnight
curfew was enforced and lifted on Sunday morning.


Television images showed the town virtually levelled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers said they were rushing to restore
communications sites after the storm wiped out both land line and
cellular phone services.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).


One of the storm chasers, Darin Brunin, told CNN the storm was "a
mile (1.6 kilometer) wide."


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


National weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe)
and F4 (devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries
winds of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.

