

Under brilliant spring sunshine, French voters walked, cycled and
roller-skated to polling booths on Sunday in numbers unseen for
more than 40 years to cast their ballots for change.


"Today we are making a choice as a society," said Guillaume
Bellequic, 28, a computer expert who voted in the Atlantic city
of Nantes to the north, and emphasized the radical differences
between the two presidential candidates.


"There is change in the air," said Gaelle Bernard, 30, a
psychologist. "And I am mostly hopeful."


In northern Lille, joking about the release of leaked estimates
in the foreign media -- which are not bound by French electoral
rules -- one elderly man, who did not give his name, said the
results were "already known".


"They were handed out yesterday by the Belgian embassy, and the
same were published this morning by the Swiss papers," he
quipped. "France is going to have to wake up sooner or later!".


By late afternoon, turnout nationwide stood at 75.11 percent --
the highest since the 1965 election won by Charles de Gaulle.


In southeastern Lyon, Jacky Pannetrat, a diehard Socialist
nostalgic, ruled out both the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and
Socialist Segolene Royal -- casting his ballot instead for the
late president Francois Mitterrand.


"I first voted Mitterrand in 1981. Since then I've never changed.
He's inimitable," said Pannetrat, who comes from the late
leader's stronghold of Chateau Chinon in eastern France and met
him once as a child.


"In 2012, I'll vote for him again, it's a vote of friendship and
eternal loyalty," said the 52-year-old businessman, who uses a
stash of voting slips from the days of Mitterrand, who governed
from 1981 to 1995, the year he died.


And in Grasse, the perfume capital on the French Riviera, a 52
-year-old Algerian man was allowed to vote despite not having
French nationality.


Of Algerian parents, Abdelkrim Fodil was born French but was
stripped of his ID papers in 2004, after the authorities ruled he
should have lost his French nationality following Algeria's
independence in 1962.


But Fodil is still on the electoral lists kept by the town hall
in Grasse, which says it was never informed of the authorities'
decision, and sees no reason to prevent him from voting.


"Change" was on the lips of many voters in the Paris area, such
as Maria Dallais, a 52-year-old cleaning lady, who said she
backed the 52-year-old favourite Sarkozy because "people need to
go back to work."


"It's been years since I felt so motivated to go out and vote,"
said Dominique Collet, a 48-year-old accountant who cast his vote
for Royal, 53, in the working-class northeast Paris district of
Belleville.


Claude Gaisne, the 63-year-old owner of a construction firm,
voted for Royal out of concern for his neighbours, a Senegalese
illegal immigrant family facing deportation under tougher laws
introduced by Sarkozy.


"I think this country's priority should be to integrate
immigrants, and to stop putting up ghettos which mean none of
them will ever feel French."


Ridha Ouerghi, a 33-year-old engineer of Tunisian origin, also
backed Royal as "the least bad option" -- as a way to block
Sarkozy's path.


"Sarkozy showed us his real face when he was interior minister.
He'll make rich people's lives better, but not mine. Poor
peoples' problems, like housing, will just stay the same."


Philippe Posavec, a local tradesman, wore a frustrated expression
as he walked out of the polling station -- having cast his vote
for Sarkozy.


"My heart would have told me to vote for Royal, but honestly
she's not up to the country's challenges."


But Ziade Zoubeiri, 23, a Frenchman originally from the Comoros
Islands who describes himself as a "man of the left" is convinced
that "Sarkozy can offer solutions to France's fears, and I voted
for him."


"He tells people the truth. In French politics, some questions
like immigration have always been taboo. I'm of foreign origin
too, but it's true that it's a problem we have to solve," he
said.


"Sarkozy is right -- and Royal is pretty hypocritical. She knows
she won't be able to keep her promises."

