

A few recruits in ragtag uniforms march laborously under the
relentless sun near some decrepit buildings that the Somali
government has renamed its police academy.


After a two-week course, they will be on the streets of violence-
torn Mogadishu, attempting to restore law and order as the
country's newest police officers.


"The emergency course of two weeks will enable you to deal with
the situation in Mogadishu," said police commander General
Abdulahi Ali Uma, who visited on Sunday for the promotion of the
first 500 recruits. "We have no time to keep you for a longer
time."


The Somali government is seeking to quickly deploy more security
officers onto the streets of Mogadishu after having taken control
of the capital with the help of the Ethiopian army late last
month.


Control came at a heavy price. Mogadishu has seen some of the
most intense violence in the city's history in recent months as
Somali and Ethiopian soldiers battled Islamist rebels.


They have now turned their attention to searching for arms caches
and rooting out rebels in an effort to consolidate control over
the war-wracked city.


The insurgents, including remnants of the Union of Islamic Courts
movement routed four months ago in central and southern Somalia,
remain opposed to the government.


At the police academy some 25 kilometres (16 miles) south of the
capital, the recruits -- both women and men -- stood in line as
the general instructed them.


"We have to change the ugly face of Somalia, based on tribalism
and personal warlordism," he said. "We want to bring back peace
and order in this country."


His deputy, Abdi Mohamed Fidow, added some words of his own.


"The first task will be to fight banditry in Mogadishu and to
enhance the administration of justice," he said.


The commander promised that they will all receive new, identical
uniforms. Other details were not so clear.


The head of Mogadishu's police force, Colonel Ali Said, was
unsure what his budget will be and how many officers he will
have. He said only former police officers are being recruited for
the moment.


Some served under the dictatorship of Mohamed Siad Barre before
his regime fell in 1991, while others were under the orders of
various clan chiefs before joining the country's transitional
government police force.


Said said the fast-track program was meant only as a refresher
course for the former officers.


The ceremony accompanying the commander's visit drew to a close
as a military hymn dating to the early years of independence was
played. The commander's procession of all-terrain vehicles did
not wait until the end before pulling off in a cloud of dust.


The abrupt departure did not seem to discourage the recruits.


"I like being a policeman," said Inspector Hassan Mohamed Wasuge,
a 25-year veteran officer participating in the course. But, he
said, "I know this is a dangerous job."

