

President George W. Bush vowed to make available federal aid to
rebuild the tornado-ravaged town of Greensburg, Kansas, as US
weather forecasters warned Sunday that more deadly twisters were
possible across the American heartland.


The president's remarks were in response to the calamity caused
when a giant tornado flattened the southwestern Kansas community
late Friday, killing at least nine people and injuring more than
60 others.


"I'm confident this community will be rebuilt. To the extent we
can help, we will," the president said, in brief remarks after
attending church services Sunday.


"The most important thing now is for our citizens to ask for the
good Lord to comfort those who hurt," he said.


The National Weather Service issued a daylong tornado watch for
parts of southeastern Kansas, western and northern parts of
neighboring Oklahoma, and a small section of northwest Texas,
until about 2300 GMT Sunday.


Weather officials said hail measuring 2.5 inches (6.25
centimeters) in diameter was possible, along with lightning and
windgusts of up to 70 miles (110 kilometers) per hour.


Tornadoes -- violently rotating columns of air extending from a
thunderstorm to the ground -- are among the most violent storms
in the United States, and are capable of tremendous destruction
with wind speeds of 250 miles (400 kilometers) per hour.


Twisters can leave behind a trail of destruction greater than one
mile in width and 50 miles (80 kilometers) long.


Although they can occur anywhere in the United States at any time
of the year, peak tornado season in the southern and midwestern
states is March through May.


Authorities said Friday's twister damaged or destroyed about 90
percent of the commercial and residential buildings in
Greensburg, a town of some 1,800 residents around 120 miles (200
kilometers) west of Wichita.


"They said to me it's hard to describe how bad this community was
hit. I have declared a major disaster for that community and I
hope that helps," Bush said Sunday outside the St. John's
Episcopal Church.


He hailed the "pioneer spirit" that built the Midwest, and which
he said Kansans would draw upon to rebuild, with government
support.


"It's going to take a long time for the community to recover. And
so we'll help in any way we can," the US president said.


The massive tornado made a direct hit on the small prairie town,
ripping homes off their foundations and even damaging below-
ground shelters, according to reports.


Rescue operations Sunday focused on finding survivors amid the
rubble, as Kansas governor Kathleen Sebelius planned to tour the
devastation.


The White House said the disaster declaration makes federal
funding available to affected individuals across Kiowa County,
where Greensburg is located, for temporary housing and home
repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and
other relief.


Water, electric and gas utilities were all shut off. An overnight
curfew was enforced and lifted on Sunday morning.


Television images showed the town virtually leveled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers said they were rushing to restore
communications sites after the storm wiped out both land line and
cellular phone services.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).


One of the storm chasers, Darin Brunin, told CNN the storm was "a
mile (1.6 kilometer) wide."


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


Weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe) and F4
(devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries winds
of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.


The National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration reports
that in an average year some 1,000 tornadoes are reported across
the United States, resulting in 80 deaths and more than 1,500
injuries.

