

Zimbabwe's ruling party has admitted that two factions have been
vying to succeed President Robert Mugabe, but says they have
'since closed ranks', a state weekly reported.


"ZANU-PF secretary for administration Didymus Mutasa has admitted
to the existence of two factions in the ruling party, but said
they have since closed ranks," state-run Sunday Mail reported.


Although there have been rumblings of discontent within ZANU-PF
towards Mugabe, no-one has put their head above the parapet to
challenge his leadership.


"Many people have been talking about the Mujuru (Retired army
general Solomon and husband of vice-president Joice) and the
(Emmerson - former speaker of parliament) Mnangagwa camp," Mutasa
said.


He said this did not mean ZANU-PF was divided as people had put
forward their ambitions, but the party had closed ranks, deciding
Mugabe was their man.


"This happens - it's a political process and if one leader
emerges, then others should forget their short-lived ambitions
and follow the one who has been selected by the party. For us,
that is a democratic process that is necessary."


In March, Mugabe was chosen by his party to stand again as its
candidate in presidential elections next year.


The decision was taken after a lengthy closed-door session of the
Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic-Front (ZANU-PF) central
committee in Harare despite growing domestic opposition to
Africa's oldest leader who is 83.


Mutasa said there was no need to talk about succession for the
next six years because they have Mugabe.


"Everybody is rallying behind him. We are all pleased that he
stayed because there is now no need to think of these two
groupings and these two groupings are naturally brought together
by the president."


The veteran leader is blamed for Zimbabwe's current political and
economic crisis that has reduced what was once one of Africa's
success stories into a country in meltdown.


However, Mugabe argues that the current economic woes are due to
the imposition of targeted sanctions on himself and members of
inner circle by the West.

