

Japan striker Naohiro Takahara has issued a warning ahead of the
Asian Cup finals in July that he is looking to boost the
defending champions' feeble firepower.


Takahara, who failed to score in Japan's winless exit from the
World Cup first round last year, netted his 11th Bundesliga goal
of the season in Frankfurt's 4-0 home win over Alemannia Aachen
on Saturday.


"I was really determined to score the goal. I had not been able
to produce results for quite a while and it was great that I
scored a goal at last. It will give me confidence," Takahara
said, according to Japanese press reports.


The goal by Takahara, 27, set a record for goals in a single
season by a Japanese player in European first-division football,
beating the 10 scored by midfielder Hidetoshi Nakata for Perugia
in the 1998-1999 season.


Takahara's 10th goal came in the 2-2 draw away to Nuremberg in
March.


Nakata, now 30, retired after the World Cup in Germany, ending a
career which had taken him to five Serie-A clubs and English
Premiership side Bolton.


Takahara moved to Frankfurt in mid-2006 after struggling to get
playing time at Hamburg for three seasons. He scored only one
goal for Hamburg last season.


"I have finally found a place since moving to Germany. I want to
play here next season," Takahara added.


His 11th goal may boost Frankfurt's struggle to avoid relegation
to the second division, Japan Football Association president
Saburo Kawabuchi told Japanese media here on Sunday.


"It is also a welcome boost for our effort toward the 2010 World
Cup in South Africa," he added.


Takahara scored a goal in Japan's 2-0 friendly home win over Peru
in late March, in a warm-up in their bid for a third straight
Asian Cup.


Playmaker Shunsuke Nakamura, who has powered Celtic to their
second straight Scottish Premiership title, set up both goals.


Takahara and Nakamura were the first Europe-based players to be
called up for international duty since Bosnian Ivica Osim took
over from Brazilian legend Zico as Japan coach after Germany
2006.

