

Indian firms expect earnings to dip in the next six months
because of higher interest rates and are less confident about the
economy as a result, a survey released Monday showed.


A majority of companies remained optimistic about the economy for
the first half of the financial year started April, but the
number of firms who expected gains fell sharply from last
quarter, the survey by the Federation of Indian Chambers of
Commerce and Industry found.


Expectations of higher sales fell from 78 percent to 68 percent
compared with a survey done in the quarter that ended in March,
the industry lobby group said.


Of the 418 companies surveyed in April, 50 percent expected
higher profits in the next six months, compared to 52 percent in
the January-March quarter survey, the fourth quarter of India's
financial year.


Overall, optimism about the economy in the next six months
declined from 72 percent to 59 percent as firms anticipated lower
consumer spending because of monetary tightening measures by the
central bank to contain inflation, the survey said.


"As the package of anti-inflationary measures by the Reserve Bank
of India will impact consumer spending first, industries such as
food processing, textiles, housing, construction and automobiles
are apprehensive about a fall in demand and profits," it said.


The central bank raised rates twice this year, by a quarter of a
percentage point each time to 7.75 percent -- the highest level
in more than four years -- to contain inflation.


The bank aims to curtail inflation from nearly 6.0 percent to
4.0-4.5 percent in the medium term.


The bank in April said the economy -- estimated to have grown by
9.2 percent in 2006-07 -- would slow to 8.5 percent this year
because of the steps taken since late 2004 to prevent
overheating.


The survey, however, reflected a positive outlook for exports,
investments and employment.


More than half the respondents expected a surge in exports and
investments.


The study said optimism was highest among cement, chemical and
machinery firms which did not depend directly on consumer
spending.


Greater investments were planned for textiles, rubber, paper and
plastic industries, it said.

