

The Czech Republic slipped into the icehockey world
championship's knockout stage despite a 4-3 overtime defeat to
Canada in their qualifying Group F showdown here on Sunday.


Last year's runners-up, who desperately needed at least one point
to book a place in the quarter-finals, grabbed a 1-0 lead 13:17
into the match through Nashville Predators blueliner Marek
Zidlicky who scored on powerplay.


St Louis Blues striker Jay McClement pulled the scores level 2:15
into the second period but Tomas Plekanec of Montreal Canadiens
restored the Czechs' advantage 10 minutes later again with a
powerplay goal.


In the third period Canada levelled again through Carolina
Hurricanes' Eric Staal, who sent the puck home at 43:22 but
Plekanec scored his second of the match three minutes later, when
Canada's Shea Weber was in the sin bin.


However, Canada refused to surrender and Phoenix Coyotes forward
Shane Doan equalised at 3-3 scoring from Matthew Lombardo's pass
with nine minutes remaining.


In overtime the Czechs, who obtained the desired point after a
draw in the regular time, allowed Staal to score his second of
the match just after 23sec to record Canada's win.


In the other Group F match the 2002 world champions Slovakia
outclassed 4-3 Belarus, dashing the former Soviet republic's
chances to enter the play-offs.


Belarus provided the Slovaks with tough opposition keeping the
scores level at 3-3 until the last minute of the match as Zdeno
Chara and Marian Gaborik with a double scored for Slovakia, while
Aleksei Ugarov, Oleg Antonenko and Konstantin Koltsov were on
target for Belarus.


However, Slovakia managed to score the winner through Pavol
Demitra, who sent the puck into the empty net with 39sec
remaining after Belarus pulled out goalie Andrei Mezin in attempt
to keep alive their escaping chances for a place in the knockout
round.


Meanwhile, the reigning champions Sweden confirmed their top
status with a Group E tight 1-0 win over neighbours Finland in
the Nordic derby clash.


Sweden rear guard Johan Akerman was the hero of the match scoring
the only goal at 15:53, while Scandinavian netminder Johan
Backlund produced 38 saves to record his second shutout of the
championships so far.


Earlier on Sunday the hosts Russia clinched a 6-3 win over
Switzerland in the other Group E match of the opponents, who
already booked their places in the knockout round and were
playing for pride.


Sergei Zinoviev put Russia into the lead, when the game was just
34sec old firing in with an unopposed shot from Danis Zaripov's
pass from behind the goal.


Atlanta Thrashers striker Ilya Kovalchuk added his wrist-shot
goal at 13:50 to give the hosts a comfortable 2-0 lead after the
first period.


Zaripov added his goal from skipper Pyotr Schastlivy precise
cross-ice pass halfway into the second period, while Mark Streit
netted a consolation for Switzerland with 1:02 remaining before
the second intermission.


In the third Andrei Markov, Alexander Frolov and Schastlivy all
scored for Russia, while Paul di Pietro and Marc Reichert were on
target for Switzerland.

