

Burkina Faso voted on Sunday in legislative elections declared
"credible" by observers despite low turnout in balloting expected
to reinforce the governing party's grip on power.


The election in Africa's fourth most poverty-stricken country was
considered a litmus test for President Blaise Compaore's ruling
Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) which took 57 seats in
the 2002 vote, a huge slash from its previous huge 104-seat
majority.


Although the CDP has had a majority of just three in the national
assembly, Compaore's easy win in the 2005 presidential election
coupled with expected low voter turnout may have worked in his
favour.


More than 4.4 million eligible voters chose from 3,748 candidates
fielded by 47 parties for a new set of 111 lawmakers for a fresh
five-year term.


The independent electoral commission set up 12,600 polling
stations across the country that remained open until the
scheduled closing time of 6:00 pm (1800 GMT). Those still in line
at that time were allowed to vote.


Complete preliminary results are not expected before Saturday.


African Union observers said voting was carried out in a
"credible, free and transparent" fashion, while national radio
reported "cases of fraud" in several voting stations in western
Bobo-Dioulasso, the country's second-largest city.


"The vote took place in a disciplined manner, but everything
suggests that the level of participation was rather low," said
Gerard Philipson, head of the AU observer mission, which formed
part of 4,000 observers in the country.


After voting Sunday morning, Compaore paid tribute to legislators
finishing their terms in office for their "commitment to the
promotion and consolidation of democracy in Burkina Faso."


"We hope that these elections can lead to the installation of
other men and women capable of fully investing themselves to
secure human rights" in the country, he said.


In Ouagadougou, where ballotting began at 0600 GMT as scheduled,
early turnout was mixed, with long queues outside some polling
stations and hardly any voting at all in others, an AFP reporter
saw.


"I voted after a 10-minute wait and I voted for the CDP," said
Mariam, a voter in the capital.


"I have just lost my job and so I voted against the government,"
said Francois, 55, a former employee in a local company.


Local radio reported that voting was brisker in Bobo-Dioulasso,
in Manga in the south and in the centre-western Tui region.


The opposition made big strides into parliament in 2002, thanks
to a system of proportional representation introduced then.


The holding of the elections at the start of an agricultural
season heightened expectations that the country in which 80
percent of the population live off the land could see low turnout
at the polls.


A 49-percent participation rate in local government elections
last year gave the CDP 60 percent of the seats.


During the legislative campaign, the opposition attacked
Compaore's "bad governance" and the rising poverty rate fuelled
by low cotton prices on the international market.


The governing party countered by saying it needs more
representation in parliament so it can implement its programmes
in the battle against food insecurity and over 70-percent
illiteracy rates.


The CDP has also promised to boost health care and standards
despite a record meningitis epidemic which has claimed over 1,600
lives since the start of the year.


Burkina Faso, with 13.7 million inhabitants, is ranked 174 out of
177 countries in terms of the United Nations human development
index.

