

Somewhere over the proverbial rainbow, a passion for yachting is
stirring in the South African soul, or so Ian Ainslie hopes after
Team Shosholoza's battling showing at the Louis Vuitton Cup.


The syndicate, formed just four years ago, may not have made it
to the semi- finals and, with a budget of just 25 million euros
coming in at barely a quarter of big-leaguers such as BMW Oracle
Racing, that was to be expected.


But a thrilling win by just 6sec over Italians Mascalzone on
Sunday leaves Ainslie and company in with a good chance of
finishing just out of the qualifiers after living up to skipper
Salvatore Sarno's pre-race description of a boat and crew who
represent the "soul of sailing."


True, Mascalzone were saddled with an early penalty for straying
too close in the pre-start, before poor tacking and overspin at
the finish line gave Shosholoza their third win in second round
robin competition.


But tactician and helmsman Ainslie insisted that the goal of
establishing the syndicate's credibility had been met, even if
too many points had gone begging.


"We could have done better. We've lost a lot of races which could
have gone our way," admitted the one-time maths student from the
University of Natal.


"But if we win our last two races we have a chance to come in in
sixth spot, which would be great for us," Ainslie said looking
forward to Monday's challenge against Italians +39 Challenge,
whose compatriots Mascalzone are just two points ahead of the
African boat.


"Overall we are happy with our progress. This year we have been
battling with our gybes a bit," added Ainslie, who told AFP that
slowly but surely the team's exploits were filtering through to
the South African public.


"The people didn't know about yachting really. There's a really
small community of people that do sailing in South Africa and the
majority of people wouldn't have known anything about it. They
would assume that if you go on to the sea it's something to do
with fishing!


"But actually the profile has been raised incredibly. Of course
we haven't been home that much in the last two years but from our
families and friends we hear that people are really excited about
it.


"For sports teams in South Africa people are really passionate
about doing well. Unfortunately the last few years have seen
pretty thin pickings," said Ainslie, adding that even the semi-
finals are too much to ask this year.


Archbishop Tutu, credited with coining the phrase "Rainbow
Nation" for post- apartheid South Africa, has vowed to take in
some racing for himself on Wednesday, the final day for those who
have not made it to the last four.


The Nobel peace laureate is the team patron and has been in
regular e-mail contact with the boat, signing himself simply
"Arch" for archbishop - but also arch fan of the boat named after
a mining song deeply rooted in African culture and which loosely
translated means 'moving forward'.

