

Cecilia Sarkozy, whose husband Nicolas was elected Sunday as
France's new president, is a fiercely independent former model
and PR executive unlikely to fit easily into the discreet role of
first lady.


"I don't see myself as a first lady. It bores me. I prefer going
round in combat trousers and cowboy boots. I don't fit the
mould," the elegant 49-year-old brunette has said.


Her arrival at the Elysee will certainly send in a blast of
modernity after 12 years of the Chiracs, whose bourgeois
respectability sat well with the Louis XV furniture of the 18th
century palace.


Like the defeated Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, Cecilia and
her husband are in a relationship that flies in the face of
presidential convention but which in many ways reflects the
changing sociology of France.


Of Jewish-Spanish ancestry, Cecilia's foreign roots match those
of Sarkozy, who is half Hungarian and quarter Jewish. In 2004 she
made a point of saying she did "not have a drop of French blood
in my veins."


Cecilia was conspicuously absent from Sarkozy's election campaign
-- setting tongues wagging and reawakening memories of 2005 when
the couple split for several months.


As if to quell the gossip, she was photographed voting with
Sarkozy and celebrating his victory in round one two weeks ago,
but was again absent from his side when he voted in the decisive
second round on Sunday.


When Sarkozy entered government in 2002, Cecilia had an office in
the interior ministry, but in early 2005 she disappeared from
view and it was revealed she had left him for an advertising
executive in New York.


A few months later they were reconciled.


In his autobiography, Sarkozy said the experience left him
"profoundly shaken. Even today I find it hard to talk about it."


He also tacitly admitted that he had pushed their relationship in
the media, saying he had "overly exposed her."


Cecilia met Nicolas Sarkozy in 1984 when he officiated as mayor
at her first wedding. According to a recent biography, he was
infatuated by her on the spot and pursued her till their marriage
12 years later.


By then he had also been married and divorced. Together they had
four children from their first marriages -- she two girls, he two
boys -- and in 1997 they had a son of their own, Louis.


Despite her protestations about not fitting the mould of first
lady, and despite the rumours of marital problems, family friends
insist the couple are still together and that Cecilia intends to
join him at the Elysee -- possibly acting as a communications
adviser.


"They have had their problems but she is hugely important to him.
She protects him," said one friend who asked not to be named.
"She will take on the role of first lady. A bit like Bernadette
Chirac -- but a different Bernadette: one who knows what's going
on."

