

Levante improved their chances of survival and pushed relegation-
threatened Gimnastic Tarragona closer to the precipice with a 2-0
win over the Spanish first division's bottom club on Sunday.


Gimnastic were dealt a cruel blow when Cesar Navas headed a cross
from Levante right winger Riga Mustapha into his own net after 26
minutes.


Six minutes before the break, an unmarked Riga found the net
himself from almost on the penalty spot after a pass from Salva
Ballesta.


Levante are now three points above the relegation zone while
Gimnastic are nine points away from safety.


If Gimnastic lose next week to fellow strugglers Real Sociedad,
who are in penultimate position, and Levante win at Celta Vigo
then the Catalan club will spend next season in the second
division.


Celta themselves are in a perilous position and remain third from
bottom after going down 1-0 at Villarreal.


Guille Franco got the only goal of the game after 68 minutes,
heading home a Cani Garcia corner.


Athletic Bilbao, who have spent most of the season in relegation
trouble, got a vital point with a 0-0 draw at Recreativo Huelva
and despite having to spend the last 22 minutes with just 10 men.


Fernando Amorebieta was sent off for hacking down Recreativo
striker Ikecheckwu Uche but, despite being a man down, the
Basques almost got an injury-time winner against the run of play
from Igor Gabilondo.


Real Mallorca added to Osasuna's miserable week, after their
elimination from the UEFA Cup semi-finals on Thursday, by
notching up their seventh successive home win with a 3-1 victory
over the Pamplona-based side.


Mallorca's Fernando Varela opened the scoring with a left foot
thunderbolt from 25 metres after 37 minutes.


Raul Garcia equalised almost on the hour with a right foot shot
from just inside the area but Jonas Gutierrez put Mallorca ahead
seven minutes later and their Serb striker Bosko Jankovic added a
third 10 minutes from time.


Real Zaragoza stay fifth after their 0-0 draw with Racing
Santander.


Racing hung on to salvage a point after a frantic final 10
minutes when Zaragoza could have got a late winner on no less
than four occasions, with Diego Milito, Ewerthon twice and Pablo
Aimar all going close.


At the top of the table, league leaders Barcelona threw down the
gauntlet to their main rivals for the Spanish title, and pushed
Real Sociedad closer to relegation, with a 2-0 win over the
Basque side on Saturday.


Spanish international playmaker Andres Iniesta and Samuel Eto'o,
last season's top scorer in the Spanish first division, got
second half goals to edge the Catalan club closer to their third
successive La Liga crown.


Barcelona now have a four point lead with five games to go
although   second- placed Sevilla have a game in hand as they
play at Real Madrid later on Sunday.


Real are in third place, one point further back, and the Spanish
giant's former England captain David Beckham is expected to start
after avoiding a one match ban.


The Spanish football association's competitions committee
controversially decided on Thursday to cancel the yellow card
that Beckham had picked up  during Real's 4-1 win at Athletic
Bilbao last Sunday.

