

Chelsea surrendered the Premiership title to Manchester United on
Sunday after Jose Mourinho's 10-men were forced to settle for a
1-1 draw against Arsenal.


Mourinho's side needed to win at the Emirates Stadium to maintain
their slender hopes of overhauling United's eight point lead.


So when Khalid Boulahrouz was sent off for conceding a spot-kick
that Gilberto stroked home just before half-time, the champagne
was on ice at Old Trafford.


Chelsea produced a spirited fightback that was capped by Michael
Essien's equaliser, but the London club's two-year reign as
champions is over.


United manager Sir Alex Ferguson had claimed he would be on the
golf course instead of watching the match, but it is safe to
assume the news of arguably his greatest triumph reached him soon
enough.


Chelsea have been running on empty for weeks as the strain of
their quadruple bid took its toll, but they deserved immense
credit for a heroic effort here.


After a soap opera of a season at Stamford Bridge, the Blues
finally gave up their crown, but Mourinho rightly asked Chelsea's
fans to salute his players at full time for coming so close in
every competition.


However, he faces a tough task to revitalise the squad in time
for the FA Cup final against United. A defeat at Wembley would
leave the Blues with just the League Cup to show for a campaign
that promised so much more.


The Portuguese coach had been forced to field a below-strength
side as Ashley Cole, who would have been returning to Arsenal for
the first time since his acrimonious transfer, was ruled out with
an injury, as were Didier Drogba and Andriy Shevchenko.


There was more than enough vitriol even without Cole's presence.
If Arsenal could deny Chelsea a victory it would gift the title
to United.


Wenger would normally by loath to do Ferguson any favours but,
such is the emnity between these London rivals, it was certain he
relished the chance to kill off Chelsea's challenge.


The Gunners showed no signs of giving Chelsea an easy ride.
William Gallas was close to opening the scoring early on when he
was unable to turn in Cesc Fabregas's free-kick.


With Drogba sidelined with an ankle injury, Chelsea looked a less
intimidating proposition than usual.


Mourinho's side have looked increasingly weary in recent weeks
and the psychological blow of their midweek Champions League exit
against Liverpool appeared to have taken a further toll.


Chelsea have never been easy on the eye under Mourinho but the
lack of zest in their play in the first half made them look
almost robotic as they grinded through the motions.


Joe Cole dragged a shot wide from the edge of the area after half
an hour as Chelsea tried to find their stride.


But it was Arsenal who possessed the greater menace and Emmanuel
Adebayor should have done better than shoot straight at Petr Cech
after Denilson's pass had given him a clear sight of goal.


The game finally came to life in the 43rd minute after a piece of
slap-stick defending from Boulahrouz. The Dutch defender has been
used sparingly by Mourinho and it was easy to see why as he
misjudged the bounce from Adebayor's flick and then allowed Julio
Baptista to muscle him off the ball before sending him sprawling
with a rash challenge.


Alan Wiley awarded the penalty and wasted no time sending off
Boulahrouz before Gilberto confidently sent Cech the wrong way
from the spot to edge United closer to the title.


Adebayor almost doubled their advantage just after the break with
a volley that flashed just past the far post.


As frustration crept in, Paulo Ferreira was lucky to escape a red
card for a nasty lunge on Denilson that forced the young
midfielder out of the match.


Chelsea summoned up the energy for one last desperate assault in
the closing stages and were rewarded in the 70th minute.


Shaun Wright-Phillips whipped in a superb cross from the right
and Essien dived in to glance a header into the far corner.


Cole had an effort ruled out for offside and Essien was close to
a second as the visitors went down fighting.


Lampard could have won it in the last moments but shot wide and
Jens Lehmann made a brilliant stop to deny Salomon Kalou.


Chelsea had made United sweat to the last but they couldn't stop
Ferguson's men replacing them as kings of English football.

