

East Timor's ruling party Sunday accused foreign peacekeeping
troops of a deliberate campaign to upset its chances of winning
this week's presidential election.


The Fretilin party claimed several thousand Australian-led troops
were intimidating its supporters and trying to disrupt its
rallies during canvassing ahead of Wednesday's poll.


"Timor Leste is a sovereign country, no longer under foreign
military occupation," party executive Jose Teixeira said, using
the tiny country's official name.


"The ISF (International Stabilisation Force) should not be
frightening and intimidating an entirely peaceful election
gathering."


Foreign troops and police were deployed to East Timor after
ethnic violence last year killed 37 people and forced 150,0000
others to flee their homes.


The peacekeepers are guarding against further unrest ahead of
Wednesday's runoff vote in the election, the nation's first since
it gained independence in 2002 after 24 years of Indonesian
occupation.


Fretilin candidate Francisco Guterres and rival Jose Ramos-Horta
are contesting the runoff after they won the bulk of the vote in
the April 9 election, but not a majority.


Guterres urged his supporters on Sunday to remain calm if he lost
the election, amid fears of fresh outbreaks of violence.


"When the results of the vote come out, the people should accept
the vote," Guterres told reporters shortly before Fretilin
claimed troop intimidation.


"If it is the people who chose, then one has to accept the
victory and the other his fate," he said.


Guterres held a press conference on the last day of official
campaigning as Ramos-Horta staged a rally in a football field in
the capital that drew more than a thousand supporters.


Ramos-Horta, a Nobel laureate, told reporters afterwards that he
hoped to win more than 80 percent of the vote, saying such a
commanding victory "can help stabilise the country."


Attending the rally was current president and former guerrilla
leader Xanana Gusmao, who is not seeking reelection to the post,
a largely ceremonial role.


Fretilin suggested Sunday that the alleged intimidation by the
troops was connected to the Australian government's apparent
support for Ramos-Horta.


"We are not convinced that there is no connection between the
troops' behaviour and the Australian government's apparent
support for Jose Ramos-Horta," said Teixeira, who is also the
minister for mining and petroleum.


Teixeira, reading from the statement, said two Fretilin rallies
had been disrupted, including one in the southwest city of Ainaro
on May 3, when a helicopter landed very close and armed soldiers
in full combat gear moved through the crowd.


He said the party had sent a protest letter to the head of the
troops, Australia's Brigadier Mal Rerden.


There was no immediate comment from Rerden, but he has said in
the past that troops were in East Timor at the invitation of the
government with the sole purpose of maintaining security after
the bloodshed in May last year.

