

Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the sole candidate in
presidential elections, said Sunday he would withdraw after
parliament failed for the second time to vote him into office.


The re-run, first-round ballot was cancelled by parliament
speaker Bulent Arinc after two separate roll calls showed the
number of lawmakers present was below the 367 -- two-thirds of
the house -- required to make the vote valid.


Gul has yet to formally remove his name, but made it clear that
the repeated failure of his Islamist-rooted ruling party to
secure a quorum had left him little choice.


"I will withdraw," he told journalists in parliament.


The presidential election has triggered a crisis in secular
Turkey, amid widespread opposition to the idea of a former
Islamist taking on the largely ceremonial but highly symbolic
office.


On the eve of Sunday's scheduled vote, tens of thousands of
protestors turned out across Turkey to call on Gul to withdraw
his candidacy, amid concerns that he and the Justice and
Development Party (AKP) are intent on undermining the separation
of religion and state.


It was the third large-scale secularist demonstration in a month
over the choice of the next head of state. Two similar protests
gathered more than a million people in April in Istanbul and
Ankara.


Gul's first attempt to get elected was on April 27, when he
failed to get the required two-thirds backing of parliament by
just 10 votes.


Opposition parties boycotted that vote and the Constitutional
Court later annulled the result, ruling that the required quorum
of 367 MPs had not been achieved.


The opposition also boycotted Sunday's re-run with effectively
the same result.


After the court annulled the April ballot, Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's AKP called for early general elections which
were subsequently brought forward from November to July 22.


Along with early elections, the AKP is seeking to push a wide-
ranging package of constitutional amendments through parliament.


Chief among them is a reform that would see the head of state
elected by popular suffrage instead of parliamentary vote. The
president would also serve a once- renewable five year-term,
instead of the current single, seven-year mandate.


On Saturday, Gul said he hoped to be his party's candidate in a
direct election, telling the British Financial Times daily:
"Support for me is 70 percent (among the public). That is why we
have decided to go to the people."


Gul's candidacy has sparked conflict between Erdogan's government
and the army, which has toppled four governments in as many
decades and sees itself as the guardian of the country's secular
principles.


The prospect of a former-Islamist president with a wife who wears
the Muslim headscarf triggered a tense standoff, with the army
issuing a stern warning that it would act to defend secularism,
and the government responding by sharply calling the military to
order.

