

Segolene Royal's failure Sunday to become France's first woman
president has left a question mark hanging over her future and an
even bigger one over her Socialist Party.


The 53-year-old former environment minister emerged from nowhere
a year ago to challenge the Socialist Party barons, and won the
presidential nomination in November after it became clear that
she alone had the charisma to possibly beat the right-winger
Nicolas Sarkozy.


Her brilliantly personalised campaign transformed her for the
left-voting public into a symbol of hope and renewal.


Fired by a fierce sense of self-belief, she shrugged off a series
of much- reported gaffes -- when it appeared her candidacy might
turn into a disastrous flop -- and her 25.87 percent first round
vote was the best by a left-winger in 20 years.


Her popular touch is unimpeachable.


For many she was the first Socialist leader to break with an
ideological, male- dominated establishment and speak directly to
ordinary people about their concerns. Her personal beauty added
another level to the public's response.


She stuck to traditional socialist economic ideas, but spiced her
programme with very un-leftwing ideas such as military style
camps for young offenders and urging people to wave the French
flag on national holidays.


But for critics Royal was a manipulator who confused politics
with public relations, artfully numbing voters with bromides
about a new society. Others said she was authoritarian, and there
were question marks over her manifesto -- dismissed by the right
as a list of unfinanced welfare promises.


Sunday's election result shows she clearly failed to convince the
France that she had what it takes to be head of state, and her
defeat throws her party back into the soul-searching it had
engaged in since it lost the last presidential and parliamentary
elections.


Between the two rounds of the election, she promised ministerial
posts to centrist candidates from the party of defeated "third
man" of French politics, Francois Bayrou, after polls showed her
only chance of beating Sarkozy was by moving her party towards
the centre.


Political scientist Philippe Braud said this was "breaking a
taboo" which had been started when Francois Mitterrand took
control of the Socialists in 1971 and allied it with the hard
left.


This helped him win the presidency in 1981, in which the far-left
party won around 20 percent of the vote in the first round.


In this presidential election the Communists won less than 2
percent of the vote in the first round.


"There are a lot of people (in the Socialist Party) who were not
satisfied with her campaign but who said nothing because they
didn't want to damage it," said Remy Lefebvre, a political
scientist a Lille university.


Philippe Braud said her lack failure to consult with her party
over her move to the centre was likely "to cost her her dearly"
after Sunday's defeat.


Le Monde newspaper wrote recently in an editorial: "The
presidential election promised to be one of renewal, change,
rupture. A radical change is happening under our eyes: that of
the French left."


Royal said during her campaign that, thanks to her, "politics
will never be the same again." That, say commentators, is
certainly true for the future of her party.

