

Werder Bremen thrashed 10-man Hertha Berlin 4-1 here on Sunday to
keep alive their faint hopes of winning the German league title
though that would require both Schalke 04 and VfB Stuttgart to
slip up.


Markus Rosenberg notched a hat-trick for Bremen and Brazilian
playmaker Diego netted the other as they bounced back from the
UEFA Cup semi-final exit at the hands of Espanyol on Thursday.


Werder were helped however by the sending off of Croatian Josip
Simunic in the first half.


With just two matches left, three teams could still win the title
- leaders Schalke 04 on 65 points, second-placed Stuttgart on 64
and Bremen on 63.


Kevin Kuranyi kept Schalke 04 on course for a first Bundesliga
crown since 1958 with the winning goal in a 1-0 victory over
Nuremberg on Saturday.


Stuttgart, however, are keeping close to the German league
leaders, a 2-0 victory over Mainz 05 leaving them just a point
adrift and well on target for automatic qualification for the
Champions League group stages.


Bayern Munich meanwhile could only draw 1-1 at relegation-bound
Borussia Monchengladbach, that result leaving the reigning
champions in fourth spot, which would prove enough for UEFA Cup
football next season, 11 points behind Schalke.


Schalke, who have topped the table for the last 12 rounds of
matches, had to wait till the 64th minute to find the net through
Kuranyi as they look for their first title in almost half a
century, though they came close in both 2001 and 2005.


Kuranyi scored his 15th goal of the season, and 10th with his
head, in front of 50,000 fans at the Veltins Arena.


Kuranyi's diving header from a Gerald Asamoah cross must surely
be one of the most important goals of his career considering the
late stage of the title race.


Schalke coach Mirko Slomka said the championship would go down to
the wire.


"We had to show patience today (Saturday)," he said. "But we
never faltered and deserved our victory. I think the title will
be decided on the 34th and final day."


Schalke's victory was even more important considering Stuttgart's
success thanks to goals by Fernando Meira and Fernando Hilbert.
It was Stuttgart's sixth successive victory although they are a
young side without a lot of experience.


Stuttgart coach Armin Veh said Schalke were still the favourites:


"The situation remains the same," Veh said. "Schalke are the
favourites because they have their destiny in their own hands.


"But we could still win the title even though our next match at
Bochum will be far from easy."


Stuttgart's next match looks easier than Schalke's however.
Schalke must face Borussia Dortmund who are in resurgent mood
following their 2-0 victory at VfL Wolfsburg.


Bottom club Borussia Monchengladbach, who will definitely be
relegated, are expected to be joined in the second division by
Mainz 05 and Alemannia Aachen, who lost 4-0 at Eintracht
Frankfurt.

