

As president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy will appoint the
country's next prime minister and help draw up the list of
cabinet ministers. Here are some names to watch out for.


-- Francois Fillon, 53, is cited as a likely prime minister. A
close advisor to Sarkozy, Fillon regularly deputised for him in
media interviews during the campaign. As social affairs minister
from 2002-2004, he saw through a major reform of the pensions
system. He is seen as a calm and competent pair of hands. Senator
for the Sarthe department of western France, he is married to a
Welsh woman and has five children.


--  Jean-Louis Borloo, 56, is also named as a possible prime
minister. Since 2004 minister of employment and social cohesion,
Borloo is seen as a popular politician with a strong record of
help for the disadvantaged. Once France's highest-paid corporate
lawyer, Borloo has a touch of the eccentric genius. After serving
as president of Valenciennes football club in the north of
France, he was elected the town's mayor and won plaudits for his
regeneration programme. He is married to television journalist
Beatrice Schonberg.


--  Rachida Dati, 41, has become a national figure as Sarkozy's
official spokeswoman during the campaign. One of 12 children born
to north African immigrants, she worked for many years as an
accountant before becoming Sarkozy's advisor on immigration in
2002. She strongly supports Sarkozy's ideas on affirmative action
to help minorities and is a hot tip for a ministry in the new
government -- especially as he has promised a significant number
of woman ministers.


-- Arno Klarsfeld, 41, is the son of renowned Nazi hunters Serge
and Beate Klarsfeld. A lawyer and human-rights activist,
Klarsfeld fell out with the French left when he took Israeli
citizenship in 2002 and served in the Israeli army. In the last
two years Klarsfeld undertook several mediation missions on
behalf of Sarkozy, who was serving as interior minister. He drew
up a report on the expulsion of illegal immigrants and helped
negotiate a deal to end protests by homeless campaigners.


-- Brice Hortefeux, 47, has been a close friend of Sarkozy since
their youth in the Paris suburb of Neuilly. He is currently
junior minister for local government, and is likely to get a
senior post in the cabinet.


-- Patrick Devedjian, 52, is a senior member of Sarkozy's Union
for a Popular Movement (UMP) and was a junior minister between
2002 and 2005. During the campaign, he was regularly on the air-
waves arguing Sarkozy's case. He is of Armenian origin and a
vocal campaigner for recognition of the Armenian "genocide".


-- Claude Gueant, 62, is a senior civil servant who was Sarkozy's
cabinet director at the ministries of interior and finance. Since
January he has been Sarkozy's campaign manager. His appointment
as Sarkozy's secretary-general at the Elysee palace is seen as
probable.


-- Xavier Bertrand, 42, was health minister from 2005 till
earlier this year when he resigned to become campaign spokesman
for Sarkozy.


-- Eric Besson, 49, was the Socialist Party's economic specialist
until his spectacular departure earlier this year in protest
against Segolene Royal's campaign. He launched a stinging attack
on her in a best-selling book, and then publicly backed Sarkozy
in the second round of the election. He appeared next to Sarkozy
in several rallies. He is a possible ministerial nominee if
Sarkozy wants to broaden his government outside the UMP.


-- Michele Alliot-Marie, 61, has been defence minister since
2002. Once seen as a presidential rival to Sarkozy, she rallied
to his side in January and was active in the campaign.


-- Jean-Pierre Raffarin, 58, was prime minister from 2002 to
2005. He was a vocal supporter of Sarkozy during the campaign.

