

Burkina Faso was voting on Sunday in legislative elections
expected to reinforce the ruling party's grip on power amid
predictions of a low turnout.


The election in Africa's fourth most poverty-stricken country is
set to be a litmus test for President Blaise Compaore's ruling
Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) which took 57 seats in
the 2002 vote, a huge slash from its previous huge 104-seat
majority.


Although the CDP has a majority of just three in the national
assembly, Compaore's easy win in the 2005 presidential election
coupled with expected low voter turnout may work in his favour.


"I wouldn't be surprised if overall turnout was low," said Albert
Ouedraogo, a lecturer at Ouagadougou university.


"There is a split between the political establishment and voters,
who feel less and less that they own democracy in Burkina," he
said.


More than 4.4 million eligible voters are to choose from 3,748
candidates fielded by 47 parties for a new set of 111 lawmakers
for a fresh five-year term.


The independent electoral commission has set up 12,600 polling
stations across the country that are set to remain open until
6:00 pm (1800 GMT).


In Ouagadougou, where ballotting began at 0600 GMT as scheduled,
early turnout was mixed, with long queues outside some polling
stations and hardly any voting at all in others, an AFP reporter
saw.


"I voted after a 10-minute wait and I voted for the CDP," said
Mariam, a voter in the capital.


"I have just lost my job and so I voted against the government,"
said Francois, 55, a former employee in a local company.


Local radio reported that voting was brisker in Burkina's second-
biggest city, Bobo-Dioulasso, in Manga in the south and in the
centre-western Tui region.


The opposition made big strides into parliament in 2002, thanks
to a system of proportional representation introduced then.


The holding of the elections at the start of an agricultural
season has heightened expectations that the country in which 80
percent of the population live off the land could see low turnout
at the polls.


A 49 percent participation rate in local government elections
last year gave the CDP 60 percent of the seats.


During the campaign the opposition has attacked Compaore's "bad
governance" and the rising poverty rate fuelled by low cotton
prices on the international market. They have also lambasted the
growing culture of impunity and insecurity within the country.


The ruling party has countered saying it needs more
representation in parliament so it can implement its programmes
in the battle against food insecurity and over 70 percent
illiteracy rates.


The CDP has also promised to boost health care and standards
despite a record meningitis epidemic which has claimed over 1,600
lives since the start of the year.


Burkina Faso, with its 13.7 million inhabitants, is ranked 174
out of 177 countries in terms of the United Nations human
development index.


Complete preliminary results are not expected before Saturday.

