

The pro-independence Scottish National Party (SNP), the largest
bloc in Scotland's parliament after winning last week's election,
received a boost Sunday from a potential coalition partner.


The SNP won 47 seats in the election which, while not enough to
rule alone, means they could secure a one-seat majority if they
teamed up with the Liberal Democrats, who won 16 seats, and the
Greens, on two.


Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour party, which had ruled
Scotland in a coalition with the centrist Lib Dems, won 46 seats
but a senior Lib Dem said Sunday that his party would not work
with them this time around.


Lawmaker Tavish Scott, who directed the party's election
campaign, was asked on BBC television whether he was ruling out a
coalition with Labour and responded: "Yes."


He added that the party would either work with the SNP or not
join government at all.


But Scott also restated that the Lib Dems would not support
holding a referendum among the Scottish people on the issue of
independence as promised by the SNP.


The nationalists won a landmark victory in Thursday's elections,
beating Labour into second place, the first time Britain's ruling
party had failed to win most seats in Scotland -- one of its
traditional heartlands -- since 1955.


But the SNP still faces having to make fundamental concessions,
particularly over the issue of independence, if it is to form a
coalition and rule in Scotland.


A total of 65 seats are needed for a majority in the 126-member
Edinburgh parliament, which has powers over areas including
health and education.


If no agreement on forming a new Scottish government is struck by
May 30, a new election will have to be held.


SNP leader Alex Salmond told reporters Saturday: "We are still to
have discussions over the next few days and we'll approach them
constructively.


"We've had conversations informally, but there's been no formal
negotiations as yet."


If the SNP forms the next Scottish government, it may create a
headache for British finance minister Gordon Brown, if, as
expected, he takes over from Blair as prime minister within a few
months.


Brown, a unionist Scot, could face an awkward cohabitation as he
has vowed not to work with a Scottish leader who wants to end the
300-year-old union with England and Wales.


Salmond has nevertheless stressed his willingness to cooperate
with Brown.


But if scorned, he would be a dangerous enemy for Brown, The
Observer newspaper said.


Previously, tensions between Edinburgh and London "simmered
behind the closed doors of a Labour Party safe house. Now they
will be played out in public," the weekly said.


"Just at the moment when Mr Brown needs to present himself as a
statesman for all of Britain, he could find himself sucked into
an unseemly partisan brawl of scant relevance" to England.


MPs representing Scottish seats in the British parliament can
vote on affairs that affect England only, such as health and
education, as the Edinburgh parliament decides on those matters
for Scotland.


Labour's former British welfare reform minister Frank Field said
that anomaly could wreck the premiership of Brown, who represents
a Scottish seat.


"He must know he can't stand up in the House (of Commons) and
announce a major reform programme as prime minister that will not
apply to his constituents but only English voters.


"If he tries, the next election is over bar the counting," Field
wrote in The Independent on Sunday newspaper.

