

The sole candidate in Turkey's presidential election, Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, officially withdrew his name Sunday after
parliament failed for a second time to vote him into office.


"As things stand now, I am withdrawing my candidacy for the
presidential election," said Gul, a senior member of the
Islamist-rooted ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP).


"Given the situation, a second-round vote makes no sense," he
added.


His announcement came hours after a scheduled re-run, first-round
ballot was cancelled by parliament speaker Bulent Arinc when two
separate roll calls showed the number of lawmakers present was
below the 367 -- two-thirds of the house -- required to make the
vote valid.


The presidential election has triggered a crisis in secular
Turkey, amid widespread opposition to the idea of a former
Islamist taking on the largely ceremonial but highly symbolic
office.


On Saturday, tens of thousands of protestors turned out across
Turkey to call on Gul to withdraw his candidacy, amid concerns
that he and the AKP are intent on undermining the separation of
religion and state.


It was the third large-scale secularist demonstration in a month
over the choice of the next head of state. Two similar protests
in April gathered more than a million people in Istanbul and
Ankara.


Gul's first attempt to get elected was on April 27, when he
failed to get the required two-thirds backing of parliament by
just 10 votes.


Opposition parties boycotted that ballot and the Constitutional
Court later annulled the result, ruling that the required quorum
of 367 MPs had not been achieved.


The opposition also boycotted Sunday's re-run with effectively
the same result.


After the court annulled the April ballot, Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan called for early general elections which were
subsequently brought forward from November to July 22.


Along with the early elections, the AKP is seeking to push a
wide-ranging package of constitutional amendments through
parliament.


Chief among them is a reform that would see the head of state
elected by popular suffrage instead of parliamentary vote. The
president would also serve a once- renewable five year-term,
instead of the current single, seven-year mandate.


On Saturday, Gul had said he hoped to be his party's candidate in
a direct election, telling the British Financial Times daily:
"Support for me is 70 percent (among the public). That is why we
have decided to go to the people."


Gul's candidacy had sparked conflict between Erdogan's government
and the army, which has toppled four governments in as many
decades and sees itself as the guardian of the country's secular
principles.


The prospect of a former-Islamist president with a wife who wears
the Muslim headscarf triggered a tense standoff, with the army
issuing a stern warning that it would act to defend secularism,
and the government responding by sharply calling the military to
order.

