

Serb Novak Djokovic rode a roller coaster to his third title of
the season as he outlasted Richard Gasquet 7-6 (9/7), 0-6, 6-1 to
win the Estoril Open on Sunday.


Djokovic went through every emotion as he added the clay title to
an Adelaide victory in January and Miami last month.


The win took just over two hours as both men negotiated curves
and roundabouts before the world number five claimed the win.


"This was a tough match and a great victory for me," said
Djokovic, whose 31 wins lead the ATP this season.


"The conditions were tough and so was Richard.


"I had to come back in the third set after losing the second, it
feels great. I've played several matches this week in windy
conditions," he said of what is becoming a trademark at the
Estadio Nacional.


"That helped me and played an important role. I learned something
in each match, I was able to hold on today."


The pair will both fly on Monday to Rome for the Masters Series
event. Gasquet, seeded 13th, begins the first round against
Fernando Verdasco while number five Djokovic has a bye.


"I was glad to play this final but Novak showed his game today."
said Gasquet. "I didn't play my best game and that's not enough
against him."


Djokovic improved to 5-2 in ATP finals. Gasquet, 15th in the
world, was playing his first final since winning Lyon last
October.


Gasquet stands 22-9 on the season after reaching the quarter-
finals or better five times.


The first set became a 77-minute marathon, with Djokovic forced
to twice save set points.


As it went into a tiebreaker, the Serb found form when it counted
most, saving three more break points back to back before
clinching the set on his own first opportunity.


But Gasquet refused to lay down, dominating in the rapid-fire
second for a 6-0 sweep which required just 23 minutes.


Djokovic regained the momentum in the third, reaching 5-1 as
Gasquet produced his fourth double-fault.


The Serb claimed the victory a game later on the first of three
match points.


German Greta Arn won a surprise women's title as the 28-year-old
fought to victory over teenaged Viktoria Azarenka 2-6, 6-1, 7-6
(7/3).


She was only the second qualifier to win the title and saved a
pair of match points along the way as she served in the tenth
game of the final set.


Arn, ranked 176, was playing the first final of her career.


The victory was hard-fought, with the German almost letting go of
a 4-2 lead in the final set before scraping through with a
tiebreak victory.


"I cannot explain this feeling," said Arn. "I am happy and I am
just enjoying it, it is just so nice.


"You start to believe in yourself more and it is a positive
feeling.


"I won today with my experience, she's young and made some
mistakes that an older player may not make."


Arn's modest ranking will will rise by 50 percent to around the
120 mark on the WTA.

