

The Multinational Force and Observers, which reportedly lost nine
personnel in a plane crash Sunday, is a force monitoring the
Egypt-Israel peace treaty which is little known but has paid a
heavy price in recent years.


According to Egyptian security sources, a French transport
aircraft belonging to the MFO crashed when attempting an
emergency landing on a road in the middle of the Sinai peninsula.


Egyptian officials said eight French and one Canadian members of
the force were killed in the accident.


The MFO is an independent peacekeeping force not related to the
United Nations, created as a result of the 1979 Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty and funded mainly by the two neighbours and the
United States.


The approximately 2,000-strong force currently has contingents
from Australia, Canada, Colombia, France, Hungary, Italy, Fiji,
New Zealand, Norway, the United States and Uruguay, based in two
camps in the Sinai peninsula.


The force is tasked with operating checkpoints and observation
posts, performing patrols and guaranteeing the implementation of
various technical and military aspects of the peace treaty.


After an agreement signed in September 2005 between Egypt and
Israel, the MFO was additionally charged with monitoring the
deployment of Egyptian border guards along the frontier with the
Gaza Strip.


The organisation is headquartered in Rome but the force commander
is based in Sinai and the director general has representatives in
Cairo and Tel Aviv.


According to the MFO's website, "the French Contingent consists
of fifteen personnel, including five Air Force and two Army
officers along with Air Force non-commissioned officers."


"The French contingent provides the MFO with its Fixed Wing
Aviation Unit (FWAU) and officers who serve on the Force
Commander's Staff," the website says.


The plane that went down Sunday was a DHC-6 Twin Otter which
performed transportation for MFO personnel between the force's
north and south camps in the Sinai peninsula.


Sunday's accident was believed to be one of the peacekeeping
operation's worst losses of personnel since its creation in 1981.


The MFO was also twice caught in the simmering violence which has
rocked the troubled Sinai region in recent years.


On April 26 last year, a bomber blew himself up as vehicles
carrying an Egyptian police officer and MFO peacekeepers passed
near the force's northern Al-Gurah base, causing no casualties.


A second suicide bomber riding a bicycle then detonated his
explosive charge against an Egyptian police vehicle rushing to
the site of the first explosion.


Two Canadian members of the force were also wounded in August
2005 when a bomb exploded in Al-Gurah as their vehicle passed,
days after multiple bomb attacks in the resort of Sharm el-Sheikh
left some 70 people dead.


The attacks against the MFO and the deadly suicide bombings that
have left more than 100 people dead in Red Sea resort since 2004
were claimed by several groups, with some of them claiming links
to Al-Qaeda.

