

Spain's Supreme Court has banned most candidates from a small
party with links to the outlawed Basque separatist party Batasuna
from taking part in local elections later this month, it said
Sunday.


Banned since 2003 for its links to armed group ETA, Batasuna has
been trying to get round the law to put up candidates in the
municipal and regional elections on May 27 in the Basque country
and the northern area of Navarra.


In the first of two rulings overnight, the court barred all 246
lists of supposedly apolitical candidates which bear the label
"Abertzale Sozialistak" on the grounds that it was a front for
Batasuna.


The court ruled that another seven lists of independent
candidates, which the Spanish government and prosecutors also
wanted to ban, would still be allowed to take part in the
elections.


The court banned 133 lists of the 256 formed by the tiny Action
Nationalist Basque (ANV) party which had until recently been
politically inactive.


Set up in 1930, the ANV was one of the movements which founded
Batasuna in 1978 and the government suspects it has been
infiltrated by members of the outlawed separatist party.


Unlike Batasuna it is legal because its charter rejects violence
as required by Spanish law.


The 16 Supreme Court judges reached their rulings unanimously
based on a law which prevents the succession or continuation of a
banned political party.


Batasuna, which won 10 percent of the vote in regional elections
in 2001 and 20 percent in 1999 municipal elections, has said that
banning it from the polls would make it difficult to reach a
peaceful solution to the Basque conflict.


Batasuna spokesman Joseba Alvarez said the court ruling was the
result of pressure on the part of the central government and the
Basque regional government.


"They are trying to dismember the separatist left in order to
destroy it," he said.


The main opposition Popular Party meanwhile faulted the
government for not seeking to have the entire 256 lists belonging
to ANV banned, saying this meant ETA and Batasuna would be
represented at the elections in May.


"The government has fulfilled its responsibilities," the leader
of the party, Mariano Rajoy, told a rally in the southern city of
Seville.


Last month ETA said it would "take into account" the absence of
Basque seperatists from the polls, a statement which was
interpreted as a veiled threat of renewed violence.


The armed group maintains a "permanent cease-fire" which it
declared in March last year is still in place despite staging a
December 2006 car bombing at Madrid's airport that killed two
Ecuadorian men.


The bombing torpedoed months of attempts by the Socialist
government of jose Luis Rodriguz Zapatero to inch towards talks
on a negotiated solution to the Basque conflict.


ETA's 38-year-old campaign for an independent Basque state in
northern Spain and southwestern France has claimed over 800
lives.

