

A man dressed in Afghan army uniform shot dead two US soldiers
Sunday outside Afghanistan's main, high security prison on the
outskirts of the capital Kabul, the US-led coalition said.


The attacker was then shot dead by Afghan troops, coalition
spokesman Major Sheldon Smith told AFP.


First indications were that he was a rogue soldier, but this was
under investigation, Smith said.


"He fired shots into a vehicle being driven by US service
personnel as they were leaving the prison. This action resulted
in the death of two soldiers and left two other soldiers
wounded," he said.


Afghan soldiers stationed outside the jail "rushed to the aid of
the US personnel and fatally shot the rogue soldier."


It was not known if an earlier event had led to the shooting, or
if the attacker was linked to Taliban insurgents behind much of
the unrest in Afghanistan.


The mid-afternoon shooting occurred outside the Pul-i-Charki jail
on the outskirts of Kabul. The jail houses criminals, Taliban and
Al-Qaeda fighters.


The soldiers attacked were mentors to the prison's personnel,
Smith said. Details about the dead troops were yet to be
released.


The US-led coalition, which led the offensive into Afghanistan
that toppled the Taliban regime in 2001, has troops embedded with
local security forces to help them rebuild.


"We have personnel there at the prison. They are mentoring and
training the Afghans on how to run a prison properly," Smith
said.


Around 50 foreign soldiers have lost their lives in Afghanistan
this year, most of them in incidents linked to the insurgency.
Nearly 30 of them were US nationals.


The United States leads the counterinsurgency and reconstruction
effort in Afghanistan, which it invaded after the Taliban
government failed to hand over Al-Qaeda leaders in the wake of
the September 11 attacks.


The US has about 27,000 soldiers in Afghanistan with the
coalition and a separate NATO-led force.


In another recent attack on US personnel in Kabul, a suicide
bomber rammed an explosives-filled car into a US embassy convoy
on March 19, wounding five embassy staff and guards, one of whom
later died.


Late February a suicide attacker blew himself up outside the main
US base in Afghanistan at Bagram, about 60 kilometres (nearly 40
miles) north of the city, while US Vice President Dick Cheney was
visiting.


Around 23 people were killed, most of them Afghan civilians but
also a US and a South Korean soldier and a US contractor.


Anti-US sentiment has risen in parts of Afghanistan in the past
week after claims of civilian casualties in operations against
Taliban and other militants.


In the western province of Herat, UN and Afghan investigations
have found that about 50 civilians, including children, were
killed in battles last weekend.


The coalition has said 136 Taliban fighters were killed in the
fighting, which involved US Special Forces as well as other
coalition and Afghan soldiers.


There were days of demonstrations near the eastern city of
Jalalabad last week in which protestors, who torched a US flag
and an effigy of US President George W. Bush, accused coalition
soldiers of killing six civilians.


The force countered that four militants were killed in the raid
on a suspected suicide bombing cell and that a woman and a
teenager were caught in the crossfire.


In March a unit of US Marines was withdrawn from Afghanistan
after being accused of opening fire indiscriminately on civilians
following an ambush in Nangarhar province. About a dozen people
were killed, including two children.

