

The ordeal of a French man and three Afghans held by the Taliban
for more than a month seemed to set to drag on after the movement
said Sunday it would decide on their fate only after a new French
government is formed.


The presidential election sets in motion a series of events that
will result in the appointment of a new government due June 17.


There had been hopes the extremist group would make a decision
sooner after a spokesman said Saturday it was waiting the results
of France's presidential elections under way Sunday.


The results are due soon after polls close at 1800 GMT.


But spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Sunday the deadline for
Taliban's demands to be met for the release of the Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) group was "until the end of
the election and formation of the new government."


This was set out in a Dari-language statement posted on the
Taliban website late Saturday but not in the English version.


It was the second extension after the deadline was pushed back
last Saturday when a French woman abducted with the team was
freed with a message reiterating a call for troop withdrawal.


Ahmadi would not be more specific about the time frame on Sunday.


The extension was because "the French government insisted," he
said.


In Paris, the foreign ministry refused to comment. The French
embassy in Kabul said it had seen the Taliban statement but had
no comment.


The Taliban has also been vague about what fate would await Eric
Damfreville and the Afghan men, who include a driver and
translator, should its demands not be met.


The demands are the withdrawal of the 1,000 French troops with
the 37-nation NATO-led International Security Assistance Force,
or that the Kabul government to release some of its men from
jail.


Ahmadi said last week the Taliban's policy "regarding the foreign
hostages is clear: if our demands are not met, we will act based
on our policy that we have implemented with foreigners so far."


While the extremists have beheaded several Afghans -- many
accused of spying -- their foreign victims have mostly been
Turkish and Indian roadworkers and engineers helping to develop
southern Afghanistan.


They have claimed responsibility for only one killing of a
Western hostage, a British engineer in 2005.


The insurgent group threatened in March to kill an Italian
journalist, who was made to watch his driver being beheaded.


The slaughter was followed by a flurry of negotiations that led
to five Taliban prisoners being exchanged for the correspondent,
but not his Afghan interpreter who was executed days later
despite international appeals.


After the demands were announced, France said its soldiers were
never intended to be in Afghanistan in the long term.


President Hamid Karzai has said his government is "doing
everything" to free the four. Separately he has ruled out more
prisoner exchanges.


The Taliban, who follow an ultra-conservative brand of Islam,
were driven from government in late 2001 for sheltering the Al-
Qaeda terror network that came to influence the movement.


Today they are waging an insurgency that relies on Iraq-style
tactics like suicide bombings that are occurring more frequently
outside the recognised hotspots in the south and southeast.


They also make use of propaganda, which includes videos of
"spies" being beheaded, intended to "be a lesson" to people, as
Ahmadi said last month.


The Taliban may be dragging out the case because they are waiting
to see what kind of government France will get and "adjust
themselves to that," an Afghan defence official said on condition
of anonymity.


Or they could be holding out for some movement on their demands
for their prisoners to be freed or in the hope of winning ransom,
he said.

