

Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy scored an emphatic victory in the
French presidential election Sunday, trouncing Socialist rival
Segolene Royal to win a clear mandate for his tough economic and
social reforms.


Wild celebrations erupted among Sarkozy supporters in Paris as
soon as polls closed and projections said the 52-year-old former
interior minister had around 53 percent of the vote against
Royal's 47 percent.


There was a high turnout estimated at about 85 percent by polling
institutes which highlighted the widespread interest in the
election of a new generation of French leaders after President
Jacques Chirac's 12 year rule.


Delirious members of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement
(UMP) burst into chants of "Nicolas - President!" and hugged each
other in joy at the party's campaign headquarters.


Thousands also gathered on the historic Place de la Concorde in
central Paris where Sarkozy was to give a victory speech and
veteran French rocker Johnny Hallyday was to headline a special
concert.


At the Socialist Party headquarters in Paris, supporters gloomily
digested a third consecutive presidential defeat after 1995 and
2002.


Royal, who had hoped to become France's first woman president,
told disconsolate supporters she hoped "the next president of the
republic will accomplish his mandate for the service of all
French people."


Thousands of police renforcements were deployed in and around the
capital to head off the risk of unrest by youths from high
immigrants areas, many of whom regard Sarkozy as a hate-figure
since riots of 2005.


On the last day of the campaign Royal -- slipping badly in
opinion polls -- had issued a stark warning that a Sarkozy
victory would trigger "violence and brutality" across the
country.


Sarkozy will take over from Chirac on May 16, and has promised to
act quickly to enact key items of his manifesto.


After legislative elections in June -- in which he is banking on
a clear majority for the UMP and its allies -- he plans a special
session of the National Assembly to push through the first stage
of his reforms.


These include the abolition of tax on overtime, swingeing cuts in
inheritance tax, a law guaranteeing minimum service in transport
strikes, and rules to oblige the unemployed to take up offered
work.


On the social front he has pledged minumum jail terms for serial
offenders and tougher rules to make it harder for immigrants to
bring extended families to France.


The son of a Hungarian aristocrat and the grandson of a Greek
Jew, Sarkozy will be the first French president of immigrant
stock. He entered politics in the 1970s as a follower of Chirac,
and in the last five years has been interior and finance minister
in the centre-right government.


Sarkozy's campaign was based on the theme of "la rupture" -- a
clean break from policies of past governments, which he blamed
for creating France's runaway debt, high unemployment and
festering discontent in the high-immigration suburbs.


His avowedly right-wing programme was in sharp contrast to
Royal's promise to extend state protection via the creation of
500,000 public sector jobs and an increased minimum wage.


Socialist European deputy Pierre Moscovici said Royal's defeat
was a "a defeat for all socialists."


The humiliation was expected to trigger bitter recrimination in
the party -- where many senior figure initially opposed Royal's
candidacy -- as well as speculation about a possible realignment
of the French left.


The pair qualified from the first multi-candidate round of the
election on April 22, beating the centrist Francois Bayrou and
far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


The crux of the second round campaign was Wednesday's televised
debate, in which Royal was unexpectedly aggressive towards
Sarkozy, at one point accusing him of "political immorality".


Commentators said that despite a close rapport with much of the
public, Royal never established herself as a credible president.
Her programme was widely perceived as unrealistic, and many
reacted badly to her last-minute warnings of violence if Sarkozy
won.


"This is a turning-point for France. A lot of people may not like
Nicolas Sarkozy personally, but they thought first that he was
much better than his opponent and second that his strategy is the
right one for the country," said Dominique Moisi of the French
Institute for International Relations.

