

By the time Carlos Queiroz left a secluded restaurant in Madeira
and stepped into the searing afternoon heat last July, Manchester
United's return to the pinnacle of English football was back on
course.


Sir Alex Ferguson had sent his trusted assistant Queiroz to
Cristiano Ronaldo's family home in Portugal in a last-ditch
attempt to persuade his prize asset not to walk out on United.


Ronaldo feared he had no future at Old Trafford after being
vilified for his role in Wayne Rooney's dismissal during
England's World Cup defeat against Portugal.


Caught on camera winking at his team-mates after Rooney's red
card, the winger became a ready-made scapegoat.


Rooney was reported to be furious with his United team-mate and,
with English fans preparing a hostile reception, it was no
surprise that Ronaldo felt he would be better off elsewhere.


Real Madrid made it clear they were ready to offer him an escape
route and Ronaldo was quick to express interest. But in
Manchester, Ferguson cast his mind back 11 years to a midnight
dash across Paris.


The United manager had been driven on the back of a motorbike
through the French capital to find Eric Cantona when his
talismanic striker decided he wanted to retire after being banned
for his notorious kung-fu kick on a Crystal Palace fan.


Ferguson had persuaded Cantona to carry on and he decided that
Queiroz, who had established a close relationship with his fellow
Portuguese, was the right man to repeat the trick with Ronaldo.


Over a meal with the player and his family, Queiroz convinced
Ronaldo that the storm of controversy would die out in the same
way it had after David Beckham was briefly public enemy number
one following his World Cup red card in 1998.


As Ferguson looks back on a season in which he broke Chelsea's
stranglehold on the Premiership, he is certain to reflect on the
significance of that moment.


After all the 22-year-old has driven United to their first title
for four years with a series of scintillating displays and a
remarkable tally of 23 goals in all competitions.


He has rightly been lauded for his efforts and the PFA and
Football Writers' Footballer of the Year awards he has won are a
fitting tribute to a player who is already a United icon.


When even Sir Bobby Charlton, one of the finest forwards ever to
grace Old Trafford and a former team-mate of Best, is moved to
describe Ronaldo as being capable of doing things he has never
seen before, there can be no question about his talent.


That ability has been allied to a new-found maturity to create an
unstoppable force. He has even toned down the amateur dramatics
and Queiroz believes the winger's fierce work-ethic guarantees he
will never stop striving to improve his dazzling array of feints
and step-overs.


"He is always the first to arrive at training and the last to
go," Queiroz said. "Many times when the session has finished, we
shower, eat and then we look at the pitch and he is still
training.


"He is a player who has a divine gift. He was born to be the best
in the world."


After destroying Aston Villa, Wigan and Reading with three two-
goal hauls over Christmas, it became increasingly clear United
could win the title if Ronaldo maintained his momentum.


When Real Madrid made a renewed attempt to entice Ronaldo to
Spain, Ferguson pre-empted them by telling his board to hand him
a new five-year deal worth 26 million pounds.


He responded to that show of faith by raising his game to an even
higher level. In the space of five days in April, he was
instrumental in the breath-taking 7-1 demolition of Roma and an
FA Cup semi-final rout of Watford.


It was fitting Ronaldo scored the penalty at Manchester City on
Saturday that all but ensured United would be crowned Premiership
kings again.


But it was his late goal at Fulham that perfectly encapsulated
the poise and passion he brings to the Ferguson's side.


United had struggled to find their rhythm against obdurate
opponents and were seconds away from being held to a draw that
would damage their hopes of pulling away from Chelsea.


Ronaldo refused to be subdued. He seized possession on the left
wing, cut past two despairing lunges and surged towards goal
before dispatching a fierce strike past Jan Lastuvka. Game over.


And who did Ronaldo celebrate longest and loudest with? Rooney of
course.

