

A consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland has made a counter-
offer for LaSalle Bank, the US unit of Dutch group ABN Amro, in
the latest twist in a huge banking takeover battle, US and
British media reported Sunday.


The counter-offer was 24.5 billion dollars (18 billion euros),
the Wall Street Journal reported late Saturday, while in London
the Sunday Times put the figure at 21 billion dollars and the
Sunday Telegraph at 22 billion.


The RBS group declined to comment on the reports, which are
related to rival takeover bids for ABN Amro that could see the
biggest banking merger in history.


The offer for LaSalle was part of negotiations at the weekend
between ABN Amro and the RBS consortium, which has offered 72.2
billion euros for the Dutch lender.


ABN management has agreed to a 67-billion-euro deal with
Barclays, which includes a provision to sell LaSalle to Bank of
America for 21 billion dollars.


However, a Dutch court Thursday froze the sale, saying LaSalle
shareholders should be allowed to vote on it first.


Meanwhile, other potential buyers had until Sunday to make a
counter-offer.


The consortium, comprised of RBS, Spain's Banco Santander Central
Hispano and Belgian-Dutch Fortis Bank, wants to keep LaSalle in
the ABN Amro group.


To do that, it decided to make a separate offer for LaSalle by
the Sunday deadline, the WSJ reported, citing sources close to
the case.


"This new aggressive tactic follows a failed attempt at a peace
summit" between the management of ABN Amro and RBS late Friday in
an Amsterdam restaurant, the Sunday Telegraph said.


While the consortium's offer for LaSalle is higher than Bank of
America's, it is contingent on reaching an agreement to take over
ABN Amro.


For its part, Bank of America this week took legal steps to try
to prevent ABN Amro from selling LaSalle to another group. In any
case, the US lender has the right to match within five days any
counter-offer made by Sunday.


According to the WSJ, ABN Amro has decided to be more flexible
and talks with RBS are expected to continue all weekend.

