

President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy is expected to roll out a raft of
measures during his first 100 days in office to cut taxes, keep
trains running during strikes and bust open France's 35-hour
workweek.


Sarkozy, who won victory in Sunday's election, has pledged to
move swiftly after the handover from Jacques Chirac to enact
sweeping reforms and make good on his promise of a "clean break"
from the past.


His first trip abroad will be to Berlin for talks with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel to re-start the Franco-German engine of
Europe, followed by Brussels to discuss the way forward for the
European Union.


To break the logjam over France's "non" vote for the EU
constitution in the 2005 referendum, Sarkozy has proposed that
parliament adopt an EU mini-treaty that would get EU institutions
up and running.


But the 52-year-old son of a Hungarian immigrant who will be
France's fifth president since Charles de Gaulle has said he
first plans to take some time after the election to shut out the
clamor of the campaign and prepare for the solemn duties of head
of state.


The first order of business for Sarkozy after taking office
around May 17 will be the appointment of a prime minister ahead
of legislative elections in June.


Francois Fillon, 53, Sarkozy's close political adviser and a
former social affairs and education minister, and Jean-Louis
Borloo, 56, the employment minister, head the list of possible
new prime ministers.


The new head of government will lead Sarkozy's Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP) party into legislative elections to secure
the majority needed to push through reforms in the eurozone's
second largest economy after Germany.


Sarkozy has promised to bring unemployment, one of the highest in
Europe at 8.3 percent, down to below five percent by 2012.


He wants to stimulate growth through various tax cuts, the first
of which will be contained in a package to be submitted to an
extraordinary session of the newly elected parliament in July.


The first test of a Sarkozy presidency could well come with a
bill to be presented this summer to force public-sector
monopolies, notably in transport, to ensure minimum services
during strikes.


The proposal has angered unions who see it as a unilateral move
and sparked warnings of mass protests.


"If I'm elected president, there will be a minimum service in
transport," Sarkozy vowed last week.


"There will be three hours in the morning to get to work on
strike days and three hours in the afternoon to get home," he
said, brushing aside complaints from the leader of one of the
biggest unions, the CGT, Bernard Thibault.


"If Mister Thibault doesn't like it, I'm sorry, but it's the
French who choose."


Sarkozy has sharply criticised the 35-hour workweek brought in
under a Socialist government, saying it has undermined France's
competitiveness, but stopped short of saying he will scrap it
altogether.


He plans to exempt overtime worked above 35 hours from tax and
social charges, a measure intended to encourage employees to work
longer hours, boost their salaries and their purchasing power.


During his campaign, Sarkozy has promised to bring down taxes by
four percentage points -- although economists are sceptical that
this can be done without putting the state in dire financial
straits.


In the suburbs where the former interior minister is widely
disliked and which were rocked by riots in late 2005, Sarkozy has
promised a "Marshall Plan" to provide training for unskilled
youth and prevent them from turning to crime.


As part of what he has termed his "results-driven" approach, a
pared-down government of 15 ministers is to be appointed, at
least seven of whom will be women.


He plans to appoint a constitutional commission that will present
recommendations on amendments needed "for the new way of
governing" that will be presented to the legislature in the fall.

