

Under the terms of the country's Fifth Republic constitution, the
president of France is one of the most powerful elected leaders
in the world.


Devised by Charles de Gaulle in 1958 in order to boost the
authority of the head of state, the constitution declares the
president to be the "guarantor of national independence" who
"assures ... the proper functioning of public powers and the
continuity of the State".


The president is head of the armed forces -- with control over
France's sea- and air-based nuclear arsenal -- and every July 14
officiates at the military parade down the Champs Elysees in
Paris.


He or she names the prime minister, chairs cabinet meetings and
can dissolve the National Assembly, the lower house of
parliament. Under Article 16, the president can declare a state
of emergency and rule by decree in the event of a national
crisis.


Under Article 64 of the text, the president is guarantor of the
independence of the judiciary, and presides over its governing
body, the Higher Council of the Magistrature (CSM). Under Article
17, he or she has power to issue pardons.


In theory France's Fifth Republic is a mixed presidential-
parliamentary system, with a government -- led by a prime
minister and answerable to the National Assembly -- which
"determines and conducts the policy of the nation".     In
practice, powers have been increasingly consolidated in the hands
of the president -- especially after the 1962 constitution change
under which the president was directly elected by the people. In
the original constitution, he was chosen by an electoral college.


Prime ministers in France thus tend to be loyal agents of the
president's rule.


The only time prime ministers establish their independence is
when there is a majority in the National Assembly that opposes
the president. In these periods of "cohabitation" -- there have
been three of them -- the president is forced to take a step back
from domestic affairs.


In order to reduce the likelihood of "cohabitations", in 2000 the
constitution was changed to reduce the president's mandate from
seven to five years. Five years is also the mandate of the
legislature, and the principle is that the two terms should run
concurrently.


This is why Sunday's presidential election will be followed in
June by elections for a new National Assembly. The expectation is
that the new president will get a supporting majority in the
legislature, though there is no guarantee.


Nicolas Sarkozy will be the 23rd president in French history and
the sixth in the Fifth Republic.


The country's first president was Napoleon's nephew Louis-
Napoleon Bonaparte, who was elected in 1848 and declared himself
emperor four years later. At 40 when he took office, he was also
the youngest president in French history.


Under the Third and Fourth Republics (1871-1940 and 1946-1958),
presidents were chosen by parliament and their powers were
limited.


The presidents of the Fifth Republic were Charles de Gaulle
(1958-1969); Georges Pompidou (1969-1974); Valery Giscard
d'Estaing (1974-1981); Francois Mitterrand (1981-1995); and
Jacques Chirac (1995-2005).


De Gaulle resigned during his second term and Pompidou died in
office. Mitterrand's 14 years was the longest ever served by a
French president.


France's political institutions have come under growing critical
scrutiny in recent years, and there have been calls to make the
president more accountable.


Sarkozy does not favour wholesale reform, but wants to restrict
presidents to two terms in office, and limit their powers to make
nominations to state offices. He also wants the president to have
the right to explain himself before the National Assembly.

