

Chievo came through their must-win clash against fellow
relegation battlers Parma with a 1-0 win on Sunday to move them
out of the Serie A drop zone with three games to go.


The men from Verona, who achieved promotion to the top flight six
years ago, grabbed the precious three points after Sergio
Pellissier's fifth minute goal which lifted them into fifth from
bottom.


Parma, who went into this fixture on a three-match winning run,
are level on 35 points with Chievo but one place behind on
inferior goal difference.


Basement boys Ascoli's hopes of launching an unlikely 11th hour
rescue bid to stay in the top flight were dashed when they fell
1-0 at Torino to ensure their relegation to Serie B.


Second from bottom Messina will join Ascoli after going down 1-0
to already crowned champions Inter Milan.


Messina had a superb chance of taking the lead in the second half
when Marco Andreolli used his arm to block an Andrea Giallombardo
cross. Arturo Di Napoli stepped up to take the spot-kick only to
see his effort saved by Francesco Toldo.


Then Hernan Crespo, back from injury, was brought on to the pitch
in place of Santiago Solari in the 72nd minute and produced the
only goal of the game with his first kick.


Champions League finalists AC Milan returned to domestic duty
after their midweek success against Manchester United with a
controversial goalless draw against Fiorentina at the San Siro.


Kaka, hero with three goals in the two-legged semi-final against
United, missed a penalty, the ball striking the inside post and
going across the face of the goal.


Earlier the Brazilian appeared harshly treated when he had a
header disallowed in the sixth minute when he was deemed guilty
of pushing his marker.


The stalemate left Milan on 60 points and in fourth, one point
behind fellow Champions League battlers Lazio, who defeated
Livorno 1-0 thanks to Luis Jimenez's 27th minute goal.


But the game was marred by racist chanting from a section of the
Lazio supporters.


Roma mathemtically guaranteed their place in the Champions League
next season with a 2-1 victory over Palermo to keep them in
second place.


Roma, who have a date against Inter in the Italian Cup final,
took control when Francesco Totti produced a sublime freekick for
his 22nd goal of the campaign in the 17th minute.


Marco Cassetti doubled their advantage on 36 minutes with
Giovanni Tedesco halving the deficit four minutes from time.

