

The fourth centenary of English settlers' first permanent home in
what became the United States, and the British queen's visit to
coincide with it, spawned an outpouring of Anglophilia -- and a
small measure of dissent -- in Britain's strongest ally.


On Monday, the day of the White House's lavish state dinner for
the royals, Washington's National Portrait Gallery was to unveil
a pair of 2002 portraits of Queen Elizabeth and her husband
Prince Philip, who is also visiting.


It has already launched "Great Britons," an exhibition showcasing
portraits of British political and cultural figures on loan from
London's own National Portrait Gallery.


The US National Archives, meanwhile, was due Sunday to unveil an
official photographic portrait of Elizabeth by the US
photographer Annie Liebovitz, taken in London in March especially
for the state visit.


A further British item on the cultural agenda to mark the
Jamestown centenary was a production by the English troupe the
Birmingham Royal Ballet at the Virginia Arts Festival over the
weekend.


"The British can't be matched for a certain elegance and
refinement in the ballet world," the Washington Post said.


"The United States has no closer ally and friend than Great
Britain," the White House said in a statement detailing the
tightly-coordinated protocol for Monday's state dinner in honor
of the royals.


"Our nations share an exceptionally close relationship based on
deep historical and cultural ties."


The previous day, fans in Kentucky had flocked with flowers to
the airport in Lexington for a glimpse of the queen as she
arrived to spend the weekend as the guest of horse breeder and
former US ambassador to Britain William Farish, local media
reported.


"There's something about the regality of the queen that I've
always liked," Kentucky local Paul Weaver told the Lexington
Herald-Leader newspaper.


"It's just something to do with the connection to the past, and
it's something that's still the same and been the same for so
many years."


Not everyone was reveling in the monarch's presence, however.


"We are no one's subjects. We do not bow to kings and queens,"
wrote the veteran Washington Post columnist Marc Fisher on
Sunday, referring to the welcome Elizabeth received in Kentucky
and Virginia.


"It is sad to see Americans bowing and curtseying to a monarch, a
descendant of the very king against whom we fought a revolution,"
Fisher wrote.


"In a society increasingly divided by money and access to power
... the visit of a queen becomes one more chance to celebrate
celebrity."


The newspaper also ran an article fondly examining Prince
Philip's reputation for perceived verbal gaffes on official
visits.


"The duke is an extrovert with a royal habit of putting his foot
in his mouth," it wrote.


"In short, the duke's a hoot."

