

Nine members of a multinational peacekeeping force, eight French
nationals and a Canadian, were killed Sunday when their plane
crashed during an emergency landing in Sinai, an Egyptian
official said.


"Nine people on board the plane died in the crash. This included
eight French crew members and one Canadian," the Egyptian
security official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


The French army chiefs-of-staff confirmed to AFP that "several
soldiers, including French ones" belonging to the Multinational
Force and Observers (MFO) had died in a crash in Sinai, northern
Egypt.


According to Egyptian security sources on the crash site, the
light aircraft suffered a technical failure and tried to perform
an emergency landing on a road near the town of Nakhl, a remote
area in the central Sinai mountains.


One of the plane's wings smashed into a truck carrying large
containers, sending the aircraft crashing into a hill, said the
sources, quoting the truck's driver, who survived the accident.


"Yes, unfortunately we have had reports of a plane crash. It was
a French aircraft carrying eight French crew members. There was
one other officer on board whose identity we are still trying to
get," the MFO director general's representative, Normand St.
Pierre, told AFP.


"It was a training mission and we lost touch with the plane
shortly after takeoff," he said.


The French embassy in Cairo said it was still checking the
reports and did not immediately confirm any casualties.


The plane was heading south from the northern Sinai airport of
Al-Gurah, where the MFO has one of its two bases in the
peninsula.


"The two pilots radioed in to report a technical failure and warn
that they would attempt an emergency landing, after which we lost
contact with them," a source at Al-Gurah airport said.


The Canadian embassy could not immediately confirm the death of
one of its nationals.


Witnesses in the area told AFP and Egyptian public television
that the plane smashed into a truck as it was attempting its
emergency landing before crashing into the side of a mountain.


"The aircraft is a twin engine transport plane which carries out
liaison missions and constitutes France's contribution to the
force," a French military source in Cairo said.


The MFO is an independent peacekeeping force not related to the
United Nations, created as a result of the 1979 Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty and funded mainly by the two neighbours and the
United States.


The approximately 2,000-strong military force was set up in 1982
and includes troops from 11 different countries, including a
large US contingent. It is based in two camps in the Sinai
peninsula.


According to the MFO's website, the aircraft is a DHC-6 Twin
Otter which provides transportation between the force's two
camps.

