

Former Taiwan premier Frank Hsieh looked set to represent the
ruling Democratic Progressive Party in the 2008 presidential
election after a landslide victory Sunday in the party's primary.


His leading competitor, incumbent Premier Su Tseng-chang,
conceded defeat shortly before the final results in the first
stage ballot showed Hsieh won 62,849 votes while Su polled
46,994.


"I accept and respect the result. In order for the party's unity,
I have decided to quit the primary and support the first phase
front-runner," Su told reporters.


Some 140,700 DPP members cast their ballots, a turnout of nearly
55 percent.


Former party chairman Yu Shyi-kun also withdrew from the race
after trailing on 22,211 votes.


Vice President Annette Lu, who came in fourth with 8,666 votes,
did not say if she would continue her campaign.


Following his victory, Hsieh promised to heal the rift caused by
a sometimes acrimonious campaign.


Earlier in the day President Chen Shui-bian called for unity as
mudslinging marred the start of the primary.


Chen, who steps down after his second and final four-year term
next year, expressed concern that the intense bickering among
candidates could harm the party's chances of retaining the
presidency.


"Today's competitor could become tomorrow's presidential ticket.
Don't win the primary but lose the presidential election," Chen
said after casting his ballot.


"Competition is the right of (party members) but unity is the
obligation," he warned.


The second phase of the primary is a series of public surveys in
the coming week to establish which candidate has the broadest
popular appeal.


The party will officially announce its candidate by May 30 under
a system in which the party vote counts for 30 percent and the
polls 70 percent.


The DPP presidential candidate will face opposition leader and
former Taipei mayor Ma Ying-jeou, who was nominated Wednesday by
the Kuomintang party.


Chen revealed his concern as the campaign turned personal,
particularly between Su and Hsieh.


Taiwan's Next Magazine dropped a bomb earlier in week when it ran
an article saying a court paper it had obtained showed Hsieh was
suspected of receiving hundreds of thousands of US dollars in
illegal political donations as mayor of the southern city of
Kaohsiung.


Hsieh hit back in an interview with a television station Saturday
saying he suspected Su was behind the leak of the official
document.


Su categorically rejected the charges in an advert on the front-
page of several leading newspapers Sunday.


He insisted Hsieh must explain clearly his role in the alleged
scandal because "as a presidential candidate, his integrity must
pass the most stringent examination of voters."


Hsieh, 60, is a former mayor of Kaohsiung, Taiwan's second
largest city and a traditional DPP stronghold.


The Kuomintang's Ma, 56, resigned in February as party chairman
after being indicted for allegedly misusing some 11 million
Taiwan dollars (about 333,000 US) in expense accounts when he was
Taipei mayor, a charge he denies.


Some KMT lawmakers suspect that Ma's indictment was politically
motivated, questioning why the four DPP figures hoping to run for
president, who had also been investigated for the same
allegations, were not indicted in turn.

