

Right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy scored an emphatic victory
in the French presidential election Sunday, trouncing Socialist
rival Segolene Royal and winning a clear mandate for his economic
and social reforms.


There were scenes of wild jubilation at Sarkozy's campaign
headquarters in Paris as soon as polls closed and projections
said Sarkozy had around 53 percent of the vote against Royal's 47
percent.


Delirious members of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement
(UMP) burst into chants of "Nicolas - President!" and hugged each
other in joy.


Sarkozy was to make a televised speech and a victory party was
planned on the historic Place de la Concorde in central Paris
with veteran French rocker Johnny Hallyday providing the star
turn.


Thousands of police renforcements were deployed in and around the
capital to head off the risk of unrest by youths from high
immigrants areas, many of whom regard Sarkozy as a hate-figure
since riots of 2005.


On the last day of the campaign Royal -- slipping badly in
opinion polls -- had issued a stark warning that a Sarkozy
victory would trigger "violence and brutality" across the
country.


Royal heard the result at her parliamentary constituency of Melle
in western France. At the Socialist Party (PS) building in Paris,
supporters gloomily digested a third consecutive presidential
defeat after 1995 and 2002.


Socialist European deputy Pierre Moscovici said Royal's defeat
was a "a defeat for all socialists."


The humiliation was expected to trigger bitter recrimination in
the party -- where many senior figure initially opposed Royal's
candidacy -- as well as speculation about a possible realignment
of the French left.


The 52 year-old president-elect will take over from Jacques
Chirac on May 16, and has promised to act quickly to enact key
items of his manifesto.


After legislative elections in June -- in which he is banking on
a clear majority for the UMP and its allies -- he plans a special
session of the National Assembly to push through the first stage
of his reforms.


These include the abolition of tax on overtime, swingeing cuts in
inheritance tax, a law guaranteeing minimum service in transport
strikes, and rules to oblige the unemployed to take up offered
work.


On the social front he has pledged minumum jail terms for serial
offenders and tougher rules to make it harder for immigrants to
bring extended families to France.


The son of a Hungarian aristocrat and the grandson of a Greek
Jew, Sarkozy will be the first French president of immigrant
stock. He entered politics in the 1970s as a follower of Chirac,
and in the last five years has been interior and finance minister
in the centre-right government.


Sarkozy's campaign was based on the theme of "la rupture" -- a
clean break from policies of past governments, which he blamed
for creating France's runaway debt, high unemployment and
festering discontent in the high-immigration suburbs.


His avowedly right-wing programme was in sharp contrast to
Royal's promise to extend state protection via the creation of
500,000 public sector jobs and an increased minimum wage.


The pair qualified from the first multi-candidate round of the
election on April 22, beating the centrist Francois Bayrou and
far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


The crux of the second round campaign was Wednesday's televised
debate, in which Royal was unexpectedly aggressive towards
Sarkozy, at one point accusing him of "political immorality".


Commentators said that despite a close rapport with much of the
public, Royal never established herself as a credible president.
Her programme was widely perceived as unrealistic, and many
reacted badly to her last-minute warnings of violence if Sarkozy
won.


"This is a turning-point for France. A lot of people may not like
Nicolas Sarkozy personally , but they thought first that he was
much better than his opponent and second that his strategy is the
right one for the country," said Dominique Moisi of the French
Institute for International Relations.

