

The sole candidate in Turkey's presidential election, Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, officially withdrew his name Sunday after
parliament failed for a second time to vote him into office.


The election has triggered a crisis in secular Turkey, amid
widespread opposition to the idea of a former Islamist like Gul
taking on the largely ceremonial but highly symbolic office.


"As things stand now, I am withdrawing my candidacy for the
presidential election," said Gul, a senior member of the ruling
Justice and Development Party (AKP), which has its roots in a
once-banned Islamist group.


"Given the situation, a second-round vote makes no sense," he
added.


His announcement came hours after a re-run, first-round ballot
was cancelled by parliament speaker Bulent Arinc when two
separate roll calls showed the number of lawmakers present was
below the 367 -- two-thirds of the house -- required to make the
vote valid.


"Even though I have withdrawn my candidacy, the process for
selecting the head of state continues," he said, without
elaborating on what will happen in the the absence of any
candidate.


On Saturday, tens of thousands of protestors had turned out
across Turkey to call on Gul to withdraw, amid concerns that he
and the AKP are intent on undermining the separation of religion
and state.


It was the third large-scale secularist demonstration in a month
over the choice of the next president. Two similar protests in
April gathered more than a million people in Istanbul and Ankara.


Gul's first attempt to get elected was on April 27, when he
failed to garner the required two-thirds backing of parliament by
just 10 votes.


Opposition parties boycotted that ballot and the Constitutional
Court later annulled the result, ruling that the required quorum
of 367 MPs had not been achieved.


The opposition also boycotted Sunday's re-run with effectively
the same result.


After the court annulled the April ballot, Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan called for early general elections which were
subsequently brought forward from November to July 22.


Along with the early polls, the AKP is seeking to push a wide-
ranging package of constitutional amendments through parliament.


Chief among them is a reform that would see the head of state
elected by popular vote instead of parliament. The president
would also serve a once-renewable five year-term, instead of the
current single, seven-year mandate.


On Saturday, Gul had said he hoped to be his party's candidate in
a direct election, telling the British Financial Times daily:
"Support for me is 70 percent (among the public). That is why we
have decided to go to the people."


Gul's candidacy had sparked conflict between Erdogan's government
and the army, which has toppled four governments in as many
decades and sees itself as the guardian of the country's secular
principles.


The prospect of a former-Islamist president with a wife who wears
the Muslim headscarf triggered a tense standoff, with the army
issuing a stern warning that it would act to defend secularism,
and the government responding by sharply calling the military to
order.

