

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern defended himself Sunday in a
row over his finances overshadowing the country's general
election campaign, saying he had never been involved in
"improper" dealings.


Ahern was speaking as the junior party in coalition with his
centre-right Fianna Fail party, the Progressive Democrats (PDs),
urged him to make a full statement over the claims but decided
not to pull out of government with him.


Ireland is due to hold a general election on May 24. The PDs held
a meeting to consider their position Saturday amid new
information relating to Ahern's financial affairs.


A complex row surrounding payments to Ahern by businessmen in the
early 1990s and his purchase of a house in 1997 when he was
finance minister has dogged the premier's campaign since the
election was called on April 29.


Asked on Sky News television if he had never received any
improper payment, Ahern said: "Absolutely.


"Anything I ever gained or anything that I ever benefitted, which
was never much, was always done in proper circumstances and I
have never been involved in anything that was improper in a long
political career."


He added: "I've never misled people either."


Ahern has said he will deal with the issues at a judicial
tribunal -- the Mahon Tribunal -- investigating payments to
politicians, which was suspended when the election was called.


Michael McDowell, the PDs leader and justice minister, said
Sunday that Ahern had last year given him "far from complete"
information about his involvement in the affair.


He said that "no useful purpose" would be served by pulling out
of government so near to a general election.


But he added: "I believe it is essential that the Taoiseach
(prime minister) must make a comprehensive statement addressing
new information now in the public domain and that he must do so
before the people cast their votes."


The first opinion poll of the election campaign released Saturday
said that both coalition alliances were on 39 percent.


It showed Fianna Fail on 37 percent and the Progressive Democrats
on two percent, while the centrist Fine Gael is on 26 percent and
centre-left Labour is on 13.

