

British Prime Minister Tony Blair is poised to announce his
resignation this week against a backdrop of good news from
Northern Ireland and bad news from Scotland, highlighting the
likely ambiguity of his legacy.


Blair is widely expected to make a statement on his future either
Wednesday or Thursday, in the afterglow of the revival of
Northern Ireland's devolved government Tuesday, following its
suspension in 2002.


His success in helping persuade Ian Paisley's Protestant
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to team up in a coalition with
its erstwhile arch foes, Gerry Adams's Catholic Sinn Fein, is
seen as a high point of his premiership.


But Blair's hopes of a glorious farewell after 10 years in office
were dashed last week when his governing Labour Party was dealt a
bloody nose in Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English
and Scottish local council elections.


The biggest embarrassment came in Scotland, where the Scottish
National Party (SNP), which wants a referendum on independence
from London, is holding talks to try to build a coalition
government with smaller parties.


Their one-seat victory over Labour pushed Blair's party into
second place in its traditional heartland for the first time
since 1955.


The results have been seen as a protest against both Blair, whose
popularity nose-dived after the invasion of Iraq, and his likely
successor, prickly finance minister Gordon Brown, who has been
waiting impatiently in the wings for years.


"Mr Blair leaves his party weakened, nationally and locally," The
Independent newspaper said in an editorial Saturday.


"A full-blown crisis of credibility and constitution may not yet
be upon us, but Mr Brown's first weeks at Number 10 will have
this shadow over them."


Having said he does not want to work with a leader calling for
the end the 300 -year-old union, as SNP chief Alex Salmond is,
this issue could now cloud Scotsman Brown's likely coronation in
July.


Senior Blairites like constitutional affairs minister Charles
Falconer, the premier's one-time flatmate, tried to bolster
Brown's post-election position by saying he should not face a
leadership contest in television interviews Sunday.


Blair himself again praised Brown's economic record but stopped
short of endorsing him as his successor in an article in the News
of the World weekly Sunday.


The two men were once close friends and political allies, but
their relationship reportedly cooled after Blair pulled back from
a deal to make way for Brown after a few years in office.


"He has steered our economy from one of boom and bust to one of
the best in the world," Blair wrote.


"At general election time, that is still the route to victory."


The restart of devolved government in Northern Ireland Tuesday is
likely to provide Labour with a welcome diversion from debate
about the election results and the Brown succession.


The idea of Paisley, who will become first minister, and Sinn
Fein's Martin McGuinness, a convicted terrorist and his deputy-
in-waiting, working together was virtually unthinkable just a few
years ago.


But now they appear in public side-by-side, joking, laughing and
discussing bread-and-butter issues such as water rates and
education.


Blair, 54, likely has decades ahead of him in politics, in a
high-profile international job or as head of a "Blair Foundation"
working on areas such as the Middle East, Africa and
understanding between faiths.


His association with Northern Irish peace would give him extra
credibility in any such role, on which late-term domestic
election results will have little, if any, bearing.


For Brown, though, coping with the legacy of Labour's latest
electoral drubbing could make it difficult for him to put his own
stamp on the British premiership after so long in Blair's shadow.

