

Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the sole candidate in Turkey's
presidential vote, failed in his second bid to get elected
Sunday, when a re-run ballot in parliament was cancelled for lack
of a quorum.


After the abortive session, which was boycotted by the
opposition, Gul said he would withdraw his candidacy, clearing
the way for early general elections which have been brought
forward from November to July 22.


After two roll calls 10 minutes apart, parliament Speaker Bulent
Arinc closed the session, saying only 356 members were present in
the first count and 358 in the second.


Turkey's Constitutional Court ruled last Tuesday that two-thirds
of the parliament, or 367 legislators, must be present for a
presidential vote to be valid.


In the first-round of voting, any candidate requires a two-thirds
majority.


Gul, who was only 10 votes short in the initial first-round vote
on April 27, was meeting with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
after Sunday's second failure.


After the Constitutional Court annulled last month's ballot for
quorum reasons, Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP)
called for the early elections to end a crisis between the
Islamist-rooted government and secularist opponents.


On Saturday, tens of thousands of protestors turned out across
Turkey to call on Gul to withdraw his candidacy, amid concerns
that his Islamist roots, and those of the AKP, pose a threat to
the traditional separation of religion and state.


Two protests gathering more than a million people demonstrating
in favour of secularism were held in April in Istanbul and
Ankara. More demonstrations are planned, organisers said, in
Izmir, Turkey's third largest city, on May 13 and, on May 19, in
the Black Sea port of Samsun.


The prospect of a former-Islamist president with a wife who wears
the Muslim headscarf also triggered a tense standoff between the
army, which issued a stern warning that it would act to defend
secularism, and the government, which sharply called the military
to order.


Along with early elections, the AKP is seeking to push a wide-
ranging package of constitutional amendments through parliament.


Chief among them is a reform that would see the head of state
elected by popular suffrage instead of parliamentary vote. The
president would also serve a once- renewable five year-term,
instead of the current single, seven-year mandate.


The office of the president is largely ceremonial, but highly
symbolic and carries the legacy Turkey's first president, Mustafa
Kemal Ataturk, who founded the secular republic in 1923.

