

Sunderland will return to the Premiership as winners of the
Championship after Roy Keane's side completed a remarkable season
with a 5-0 win over Luton on Sunday.


The win allowed Sunderland to leapfrog Steve Bruce's Birmingham,
who had to settle for the second automatic promotion slot after
being beaten 1-0 at Preston.


That win was not enough to earn Preston a place in the play-offs
as all four teams above them won their final matches. Third-
placed Derby will take on sixth- placed Southampton while West
Brom will play Wolves in the play-off semi-finals.


The winners of those two matches then face each other for the
right to join Sunderland and Birmingham in the Premiership -- a
match involving estimated stakes of 60 million pounds which is
considered the richest in world football.


Southend, Luton and Leeds will all be playing in League One, the
third tier of English football, next season after being
relegated.


Luton were already condemned to the drop and Sunderland quickly
demonstrated why the two clubs are at opposite ends of the table.


Former Arsenal striker Anthony Stokes opened their account in the
fourth minute and it was only another two minutes before Daryl
Murphy had doubled the lead.


Murphy's second, just after the restart, and late strikes from
Ross Wallace and David Connolly kickstarted the title party at a
club that lost its first four games of the season before Keane
was installed as manager.


Birmingham had a much tougher task on the final day against a
side that was in the play-off positions for most of the season.
But they generated enough chances to have won at a canter before
finally succumbing to Simon Whaley's 85th-minute winner.


It was not enough to earn Paul Simpson's men a shot at the top
flight however as Southampton hammered Southend 4-1 to claim the
final play-off spot.


Derby beat already-relegated Leeds 2-0 to clinch third spot but
it is West Brom who look to have the greatest momentum going into
the play-offs after they crushed Barnsley 7-0 to clinch fourth
place.


Wolves had to come back from a goal down to beat Leicester 4-1
and finish in fifth.

