

South African rugby fans woke up nursing a massive hangover
Sunday after the Northern Bulls and Coastal Sharks secured home
semi-finals in this year's Super 14 rugby competition.


It is the first time in the history of Super rugby that two South
African teams will host the semi-finals of the southern
hemisphere inter-provincial rugby competition.


The Sunday press in South Africa joined in the celebrations after
the Sharks downed the Western Stormers 36-10 in Cape Town to
finish on top of the points table, while the Bulls ran in 14
tries to score an impressive 92-3 win over the Queensland Reds at
Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria.


The Bulls, who were not even among the top four teams when they
went into their match with the Reds, needed a victory to secure
fourth place. A nigh impossible victory margin of 72 points was
needed for them to move into second place, above the Canterbury
Crusaders and Auckland Blues.


In the end the men from Pretoria won by 89 points to secure a
home semi-final against the Crusaders this weekend. The Sharks
will face the Blues in Durban.


The Bulls' victory margin of 89 points is the biggest in the
competition's history, beating the 77 points difference of the
Crusaders over the New South Wales Waratahs (96-19) in 2002.


The Sunday Times led their sports pages with the rugby news,
headlining their story "One-two for SA Super teams".


The headline in the mass circulation Afrikaans paper Rapport
said: "Super- Saturday - all roads lead to Loftus and Durban".


Sondag, the new tabloid Afrikaans paper which launched this
weekend, said "Double Super Pleasure."


And the Sunday Independent headlined their sports page:
"Brilliant, breathtaking Bulls blast home".


It was indeed a super Saturday for the two South African
franchises. It is the first time since 2002 that South Africa
have two teams in the playoffs. A South African team has never
won the title.


Rapport said about the Bulls: "Their effort was indescribable at
times and believe me," said the writer JJ Harmse, "they could
have won by an even bigger margin."


The Sharks finished with 10 wins from their 13 matches - more
victories than any other team, while the Bulls recorded nine
wins, one more than the third-placed Crusaders. The Blues also
recorded nine wins.

