

A top Malaysian minister has proposed a controversial plan to
classify bloggers in a bid to contain the information they send
on the Internet, a report said Sunday.


Information Minister Zainuddin Maidin said bloggers would be
labelled professional or non-professional to prevent the misuse
of blog sites, since professional bloggers would ensure their web
content was based on truth.


Zainuddin did not elaborate how his plan would be implemented.


The proposal follows an unprecedented defamation suit launched
against two bloggers who were critical of the government.


Prominent bloggers Jeff Ooi and Ahirudin Attan are being sued by
the New Straits Times Press newspaper group for posts criticising
the daily and the government.


Zainuddin, who has previously accused bloggers of using lies to
overthrow the government, said "the classification will also
facilitate any action to be taken against those found to have
violated the country's laws."


"It is feared that these (blog sites) will be misused by those
who have an agenda to spread slander," he was quoted as saying in
the Sunday Star newspaper.


"By right, there should be a mechanism to control the phenomenon,
including classifying bloggers as professionals and non-
professionals," he added.


Opposition lawmaker Lim Kit Siang, with the Democratic Action
Party, said it would be impossible to implement such a plan,
which he described as "definitely an attempt to obstruct and
impede free blogging."


"How are we going certify who is professional and non-
professional? It is a ridiculous idea," he told AFP.


Lim, a blogger himself, said the government should instead fund
bloggers to generate responsible blogging.


Another popular blogger, Raja Petra Kamarudin, who runs the blog
site "Malaysia Today," said Zainuddin made many statements
without "thinking them through properly."


"How do you evaluate what is truth? It is impossible to register
bloggers. What if I refuse to register? How are you going to find
out where the blogger is residing?" he said.


Rights groups have condemned government attempts to crackdown on
bloggers, arguing that they offer a crucial alternative to the
tightly-controlled mainstream media.

