

East Timor's ruling party Sunday accused foreign peacekeeping
troops of a deliberate campaign to upset its chances of winning
this week's presidential election.


The Fretilin party claimed several thousand Australian-led troops
were intimidating its supporters and trying to disrupt its
rallies during canvassing ahead of Wednesday's poll.


The party also suggested that the alleged intimidation was
connected to the Australian government's apparent support for
rival presidential candidate and prime minister Jose Ramos-Horta.


"Timor Leste is a sovereign country, no longer under foreign
military occupation," party executive Jose Teixeira said, using
the tiny country's official name.


"The ISF (International Stabilisation Force) should not be
frightening and intimidating an entirely peaceful election
gathering."


He said two rallies had been disrupted, including one in the
southwest city of Ainaro on May 3 when a helicopter landed very
close, and armed soldiers in full combat gear moved through the
crowd.


Foreign troops and police were deployed to East Timor after
ethnic violence erupted in May last year that killed 37 people
and forced 150,0000 others to flee their homes.


The troops remain in the troubled country amid concerns of
further unrest during the election, the country's first since
gaining its independence in 2002.


Fretilin candidate Francisco Guterres and Ramos-Horta emerged to
contest a run- off in Wednesday's election after neither won a
majority in the closely-fought April 9 poll.


Teixeira said the party had sent a protest letter to the head of
the troops, Australia's Brigadier Mal Rerden.


There was no immediate comment from Rerden, but he has said in
the past that troops were in East Timor at the invitation of the
government with the sole purpose of maintaining security.


"We are not convinced that there is no connection between the
troops' behaviour and the Australian government's apparent
support for Jose Ramos-Horta," said Teixeira, who is also the
minister for mining and petroleum.

