

About 4.4 percent of adults in the United States have experienced
a form of bipolar disorder in their lifetime, according to a
study published Monday.


That is more than four times more common than previously thought,
the study found. In addition, many of those people are not
receiving the treatment they need because they are not being
properly diagnosed, it said.


Bipolar disorder is a leading cause of premature death due to
suicide, drug abuse and associated health conditions such as
diabetes and heart disease.


It causes mood fluctuations between periods of depression and
periods of mania, which are characterized by impulsive behavior.


Bipolar disorder typically first strikes when people are in their
late teens and early twenties and the episodes last an average of
10 years, the study found.


"Since the mean age at onset of bipolar disorder occurs at one of
the most critical periods of educational, occupational and social
developments, its consequences often lead to lifelong
disability," wrote lead author Kathleen Merikangas of the
National Institute of Mental Health.


Merikangas and her colleagues interviewed and diagnosed 9,282
people chosen to represent the general population between
February 2001 and April 2003 to assess the presence of bipolar
disorder and other psychiatric conditions.


They found that nearly all of the patients with bipolar disorder
had another psychiatric condition, such as an anxiety disorder or
substance use disorder.


While 80 percent of those with lifetime bipolar disorder received
treatment, most had sought treatment for the depression rather
than for the manic symptoms. Less than a quarter of bipolar
patients received appropriate medication.


"Although most individuals with bipolar disorder receive
treatment owing to co- morbid disorders, the lack of recognition
of their underlying bipolarity leads to only a few receiving
appropriate treatment," the authors wrote.


The findings suggest that people with other psychiatric disorder,
particularly depression, ought to be screened for bipolar
disorder, the authors concluded.


The study was published in the May issue of the Journal of the
American Medical Association's Archives of General Psychiatry.

