

Sir Alex Ferguson rarely allows himself to dwell on his success.


By his own account, he has never even watched a video of the 1999
Champions League final that represents the pinnacle of his two
decades at the helm of Manchester United.


As his 20th anniversary at Old Trafford approached last November,
the Scot publicly fretted that the associated celebrations would
distract him from the task in hand, wresting the Premiership
trophy back out of Chelsea's grasp.


But there can be little doubt that, when he finally decides to
call time on his managerial career, Ferguson will look back on
his ninth Premiership title with particular fondness.


Not only has he finally got the better of Jose Mourinho - an
objective he has surely nurtured ever since the Portuguese's
famous sprint down the Old Trafford touchline in celebration of
Porto's elimination of United on their way to glory in the 2004
Champions League - he has also defied all those who, barely 18
months ago, had been writing his footballing obituary.


In doing so, Ferguson has pulled off the remarkable feat of
constructing the third great team of his time in charge of
United, following in the footsteps of the Eric Cantona-inspired
side that, in 1993, secured the club's first title since 1967 and
the home-grown generation that delivered the treble three years
later.


It is an achievement few would have predicted at the end of 2005.
Out of the Champions League before Christmas, United were blowing
hard as they laboured to keep pace with Chelsea domestically and
suggestions that Ferguson might be replaced did not appear
completely ridiculous.


An unseemly row over a racehorse with one of the club's major
shareholders, the acrimonious departure of club captain Roy Keane
and the sidelining of Ruud van Nistelrooy all suggested that, as
he neared his 65th birthday, Ferguson's judgement was beginning
to fail him.


Instead it was those who sought to judge him that got it wrong.
In offloading the prolific van Nistelrooy to Real Madrid last
summer, Ferguson was gambling that there were more goals to be
had by getting more players into scoring positions.


On that point, he could hardly have been vindicated any more
resoundingly. When Chris Eagles rounded off a 4-2 win against
Everton last month, he became the 20th member of the United squad
to have found the net this season.


In 36 league outings, the Red Devils have plundered 83
Premiership goals as the youthful thrust of Cristiano Ronaldo and
Wayne Rooney has dovetailed with the guile and experience of Ryan
Giggs and Paul Scholes.


In defence too, Ferguson has proved that he has not lost his
touch when it comes to judging a player.


Nemanja Vidic and Patrice Evra did not look like the most astute
of buys as they settled into English football last year but they
have emerged in this campaign as cornerstones of a back four as
good as any Ferguson has had at United.


Having emerged from one of the most difficult phases of his
professional life, it is little wonder that Ferguson has appeared
more relaxed during this season than at any time in his career.


Even Mourinho has found it impossible to get seriously under his
skin for long and all the signs are that the battle of wits will
be resumed next season with a rival who, it is often suggested,
resembles Ferguson in the days when he was forging his reputation
by building the Aberdeen team that broke the Old Firm monopoly in
Scottish football.


"Sometimes with Jose there is a continual dialogue that you quite
enjoy having a wee go back," Ferguson admitted last week, before
adding that he fully expects Mourinho to be in charge of a
strengthened Chelsea bid to reclaim the title next season.


It is a safe bet that, after a few glasses of his beloved red
wine to celebrate, Ferguson will be starting work on ensuring
that does not happen.

