

A UN conference starting on Tuesday will try to boost support for
millions of Iraqis who have fled violence, amid warnings that aid
for the growing flood of refugees and displaced people could cost
billions of dollars.


The crisis with Iraq, where up to 50,000 people are fleeing their
homes every month, is regarded as the worst displacement
situation in the world.


"We're talking about 4.0 million people who are uprooted," said
Ron Redmond, a spokesman for the office of the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which called the two-day
meeting of ministers or officials from 60 nations.


"Iraq's infrastructure in many places is in a shambles, the
capacity of the host governments outside Iraq to care for these
people in terms of schools, social services, the economy,
skyrocketing rent, we're talking enormous needs."


"It's hundreds of millions (of dollars), it's probably in the
billions," Redmond added.


Some 2.0 million Iraqis are estimated to be in neighbouring
countries, many of them uprooted prior to 2003, while another 2.0
million Iraqis are displaced inside their own country, according
to the UNHCR


More than 800,000 Iraqis are thought to have fled their homes
since an upsurge in sectarian violence involving mainly Shiite
and Sunni Muslims in February 2006, and are being joined by
40,000 to 50,000 more every month, according to aid agencies.


The International Committee of the Red Cross said last Wednesday
that Iraqis face "ever-worsening" suffering, warning that their
plight was likely to worsen especially in Baghdad and other areas
with mixed communities.


The UNHCR expects full funding for its 60 million dollar appeal
to help Iraqi refugees this year, but it wants far broader action
from the international community rather than more financial
pledges.


"What we're asking for is only a drop in the ocean compared to
the needs," Redmond said.


Those needs include direct help for refugee hosts Jordan and
Syria, and other countries in the region, as well as places in
third countries to resettle Iraqi refugees.


"We're also asking governments that receive refugees to provide
them with protection space so they are not sent back against
their will," Redmond added.


The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said that
displaced people inside Iraq were now being turned away in the
governorate of Kerbala, southwest of Baghdad, because of the
strain on local resources and services.


A majority of the recently displaced Iraqis live in overcrowded
public buildings or rented accommodation with little or no access
to water, sanitation or electricity, according to IOM surveys
inside the country.


"Failing the displaced now would lead to an increased exodus to
neighbouring countries, which are already burdened," said Rafiq
Tschannen, the agency's mission chief for Iraq.


However, aid officials admit that the insecurity in Iraq severely
limits what can be done inside the country.


Few foreign aid workers are present while Iraqis working for
international agencies do so largely anonymously and at great
risk to their own lives.


The conference marks a dramatic shift for the UNHCR.


During the US-led invasion four years ago, it was braced for a
massive exodus from Iraq that did not materialise.


Instead, exiled Iraqis who had fled Saddam Hussein's regime even
went back home despite warnings not to.


"In fact, until 18 months ago, we had actually seen some 300,000
Iraqis return home to begin rebuilding their lives since 2003,"
Redmond remarked.


"But that initial return trend has dramatically reversed itself,
particularly since the Samarra bombing in February 2006," he
added, referring to a car bomb attack on a holy Shiite shrine
that sparked a surge in bloody violence.

