

A suicide bomber blew himself up at a police training ground in
usually peaceful northern Afghanistan Monday, killing nine
policemen and wounding 25 others, an interior ministry spokesman
said.


Separately NATO-led forces in Afghanistan said they had killed
several key Taliban leaders in airstrikes and raids in the
insurgency-hit southern province of Helmand, although they gave
few details.


The suicide attacker, who was on foot, struck at around 9:00 am
(0430 GMT) in the northern city of Kunduz, the third suicide
attack in three days in Afghanistan.


"There was a suicide bombing in front of a police station in
Kunduz," spokesman Zemarai Bashary said.


"Unfortunately nine policemen were martyred and 25 others were
wounded. The bombing coincided with the exercise time of the
policemen," he said.


The Taliban, who were toppled by US-led forces in late 2001, have
launched around 30 suicide bombings this year, often targeting
Afghanistan's fledgling foreign-backed police and army as well as
international forces.


On Sunday four Afghan employees of a US-owned private security
firm were killed by a motorcycle-riding suicide bomber near a
base housing thousands of international troops in southern
Kandahar city, police said.


Eight people, mostly police, were killed in a blast in the
eastern city of Khost on Saturday.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) on
Monday said it had killed several key Taliban leaders in a series
of airstrikes and raids in southern Afghanistan during the past
week.


The raids were part of a major ISAF offensive launched by some
5,000 Afghan and foreign troops in Helmand early last month, it
said.


"ISAF, in joint operations with Afghan forces, launched a series
of attacks and precision strikes against Taliban extremists in
Helmand this week resulting in the elimination of several key
extremist leaders," it said in a statement.


It did not give any further details on the identities or ranks of
the Taliban leaders, nor of the locations or dates of the
attacks.


"Striking at the heart of the problem and removing these key
leaders has paid off," the statement quoted ISAF Commander for
southern Afghanistan Major General Ton van Loon as saying.


Around 37,000 NATO-led troops and a separate force of nearly
12,000 US-led coalition soliders are in Afghanistan to hunt down
the rebels, who are trying to topple the US-backed government in
Kabul.


Separately the coalition said it had captured eight insurgents
early Monday.


Four with alleged ties to a "known, high-ranking Taliban leader"
were arrested in Helmand while another four were seized for
allegedly running a militant "safe-house" in the Barmal district
of Paktika province, it said.


Meanwhile gunmen shot dead a school headmaster in the
southeastern province of Khost as he returned home late Sunday,
police said, blaming "terrorists" for the attack.


An Afghan soldier was also killed and two were wounded in a
gunfight with Taliban militants in southwestern Ghazni province
on Sunday night, provincial police said.


Around 1,000 people have died in the Afghan insurgency this year,
according to an AFP tally based on official reports.

