

Vietnam's share index dropped below 1,000 points on Monday,
crashing through a psychologically important level in a widely
anticipated correction, dealers said.


Analysts said the drop comes as investors are awaiting a spate of
new share issues in coming months and currently listed stocks
were overvalued in one of the world's youngest but fastest
growing markets.


The VN Index is likely to drop as low as 900 points before it
picks up steam and makes a strong recovery in the second half of
the year, predicted Fiachra Aodh Mac Cana, director and head of
research at Vina Capital.


The benchmark index for 109 companies listed on the Ho Chi Minh
City Securities Trading Center dropped nearly 3.0 percent to
close at 983 points, the first time it fell below the 1,000-point
mark since January 19.


"I think the current correction is within the expected limit of a
15 to maximum 30 percent," said Mac Cana, referring to a recent
slide from record highs around 1,170 points.


"It seems like foreigners are not buying as aggressively as they
were at the beginning of the year.


"You have a lot of supply (of shares) coming onto the market,
both from the privatisation schedules of this summer, and also a
whole bunch of companies ... which have recently announced quite
decently sized new share issues."


Many investors were waiting for a host of state-owned companies
due to make initial or secondary stock offering in coming months,
including Vietcombank, Mekong Housing Bank and insurance company
Baoviet, said Mac Cana.


"We're now moving into a phase where there seems to be quite a
lot of supply," Mac Cana said.


"At that stage in the market, prices would normally come down
until the market feels it's at an equilibrium point to absorb the
new supply coming in."


Le Nhi Nang, deputy director of the bourse, also said the fall
was healthy.


"The fact that the Vietnam index has fallen below 1,000 points
will have caused some negative psychological impact among
investors but I think it is the law of the market."


The index gained over 144 percent last year and continued its
stellar rise to an all-time high of 1,170.67 in mid-March.


"The problem to some extent is that the existing listed market
has priced itself out of a lot of people's pockets," said Mac
Cana.


"The market has to come down in valuation to a slightly more
reasonable level before it becomes attractive once again."


Almost all stocks fell Monday.


Among the few gainers was technology company FPT which rose
nearly 1.0 percent to close at 525,000 dong (32.6 dollars) on
news it would distribute Apple Inc. products from six stores due
to open this year.

