

Cesc Fabregas was already regarded as one of the best players in
the Premiership but Arsene Wenger believes the young Arsenal
midfielder is only getting started.


Fabregas's precision passing and astute reading of the game
present a formidable enough challenge for opponents and Wenger
sees signs that his teenage prodigy is ready to add goal-scoring
to his repertoire.


The Spanish international had gone 47 matches without scoring but
finally ended his barren run with the winner against Bolton on
Saturday. Manchester City could be the next side to suffer
against the newly-predatory Gunners' star.


Stuart Pearce's side visit the Emirates Stadium on Tuesday with
Fabregas and his Arsenal team-mates desperate to maintain the
momentum of their victory over Bolton.


That success was their first in five matches as Arsenal re-
established their grip on the race to clinch the final Champions
League place.


A win over City in their game in hand would open up an eight-
point lead over Bolton that would surely seal fourth spot for
Wenger's side.


Wenger believes 19-year-old Fabregas, who hadn't scored since
hitting a double against Dinamo Zagreb in August, showed he is
coming of age with his first Premiership goal of the season.


"Cesc is young and he also does a lot of work defensively,"
Wenger said. "It is not always easy at such a young age to have
the strength and the power to get into forward positions.


"He had sharpness in his runs again and that shows that he is
totally recovered physically.


"Cesc is an outstanding player. When you see how much he worked
and tried, it is just unbelievable.


"It was his 49th game of the season and that, for someone who is
not yet 20, is fantastic.


"Cesc is box-to-box until the last minute and I have never seen
anyone quite like him at that age.


"We need to let him mature at his pace, but he is intelligent and
he wants to be strong."


Fabregas has only scored 12 goals in his four-year Arsenal career
and the former Barcelona youth team product acknowledges the
incongruity of that record for someone so talented.


"It has been amazing, crazy. I have had so many chances, but I
have not been taking them," he said.


"Sometimes you make the shot of your life, and you hit the
woodwork, sometimes the keeper made a fantastic save and
sometimes I was just not taking it.


"Fortunately against Bolton was the day - let's see if I can
score some more now."


DaMarcus Beasley admits he would love to stay at City when his
loan from PSV Eindhoven expires at the end of the season, but he
doesn't know if Pearce wants to keep him.


The American winger, who was hit by injury early in his time at
Eastlands, has become a key figure for City in recent weeks and
was one of the few bright sparks in an otherwise drab goalless
draw against Liverpool on Saturday.


"I have another year at PSV but City has the option to take it if
they choose," Beasley said. "I haven't talked to anyone so I
don't know what's going to happen but I hope something can
happen.


"I'm just trying to enjoy these last few games, hopefully I'll
stay in the side and help the team finish as high in the table as
we can.


"Playing gives you confidence, I feel that when I get going with
a couple of games I can get more confidence to do what I do, and
get the club to change their mind and maybe keep me."

