

Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes New Zealand's "love of a
scrap" makes them as big a threat as anyone to his side's hopes
of winning an unprecedented third straight World Cup title.


The trans-Tasman rivals, already through to the semi-finals, meet
in Grenada on Friday for their last Super Eights game in what
could be a dress rehearsal for the April 28 final in Barbados.


In February, New Zealand bounced back from the disappointment of
finishing third in the Commonwwealth Bank Series in Australia,
won by England, to defeat the world champions 3-0 on home soil.


The Black Caps, currently second in the Super Eights standings
behind the title- holders, had been, until Thursday's six-wicket
defeat by Sri Lanka, the only other unbeaten side in the World
Cup.


But Ponting said: "New Zealand are playing as well as anyone at
the moment.


"They've been playing pretty much one-day cricket almost 12
months now, they've played hardly any other cricket. They've been
focusing wholly and solely on this event.


"They didn't play very well in Australia in the Commonwealth Bank
Series but we then went there and they played some unbelievable
cricket, scored some big runs and chased some big totals down.


"There's no doubt at the moment they've got a bit of confidence
and when they are actually at full strength, which they are
pretty close to now, they are a very competitive side."


New Zealand have never won the World Cup or even reached the
final although they have now reached the last four for the fifth
time in the tournament's nine edition history.


"They love a fight, they love a scrap," Ponting said. "They are a
pretty proud team and I've got a lot of respect for them."


New Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris is averaging over 100 with
the bat in the Caribbean after scoring a century and four
fifties.


Fast bowler Shane Bond has taken 12 wickets at under 25 apiece in
an attack that also features experienced left-arm spinner Daniel
Vettori.


"Styris has been good for them so far, Bond's obviously very good
and Vettori is always good in these sorts of conditions," Ponting
added.


Bond, unsually for current players, has a better one-day record
against Australia than for his career as a whole.


In 11 games against Australia he has taken 34 wickets at an
average of under 14 apiece.


And three of the former policeman's four hauls of five wickets or
more in an innings in one-dayers have come against Australia.


By contrast his 124 wickets in 66 career one-dayers have cost 19
apiece.


"At the last World Cup he took six for 23 against us in Port
Elizabeth and he got a hat-trick against us this year," said
Ponting.


"He's one of those guys, you have to pay the utmost attention to.
He's very dangerous with the new ball and (New Zealand captain
Stephen) Fleming uses him as a strike bowler through the middle
to try to break partnerships and he generally does that.


"You certainly have to be right on your game. He's an unusual
sort of bowler in that, if anything, he'll drift the ball back
into the right-hander with the new ball and right-arm bowlers
don't do that very much around the world and he used his yorker
very well.


"When that New Zealand game comes around, I'm sure at our team
meeting we'll be speaking a lot about the appropriate way to play
him early on."

