

For eight months now, Elvira Arellano has defied a deportation
order and taken sanctuary inside a streetfront Chicago church.


While Arellano has restricted herself to a 25-by-100 foot (eight-
by-30 meter) lot which houses the church, its offices and the
parsonage, her US-born son has traveled across the country and
even to Mexico as an emissary lobbying to keep his mother in the
country.


She is tired and hungry in the first week of a 25-day hunger
strike aimed at rallying support for an immigration reform march
on May 1.


But she says she is not going to give up. Nor is she going to do
what so many others have done in her place: slip away to another
town and hope she does not get caught.


"The people have to come out of the shadows to let people know
who they are and where they come from," she told AFP through an
interpreter.


"I'm not a criminal. I'm not a terrorist. I'm just a single
mother helping my child and my mother and father in Mexico."


There are at least 3.1 million children like eight-year-old
Saulito Arellano who are US citizens but could lose one or more
undocumented parents at any moment to an immigration raid,
according to a 2006 report issued by the Pew Hispanic Center.


And the clergy is increasingly coming to their aid.


Churches in more than a dozen cities across the country are
expected to unveil their illegal immigrant sanctuaries at the end
of the month. They will each provide refuge to at least one
family facing deportation proceedings which have children who are
US-citizens by birth.


"We're about family unity," said Reverend Walter Coleman, who has
joined Arellano on her hunger strike at the Adalbelto United
Methodist Church.


"The concept of sanctuary is that the church provides holy space
so the true story can come out."


Coleman said it is immoral for the government to treat illegal
immigrants like criminals when the country's economic system
depends on them and its trade policies encourages economic
instability in the countries from which many illegal immigrants
flee.


"This nation has to take responsibility for the families that are
formed here."


Like most illegal immigrants, Arellano lived a quiet life and
avoided trouble while working with false papers as a cleaning
woman at Chicago's O'Hare airport.


She became politicized after she was arrested in a post-September
11, 2001 "terrorist" sweep and ordered deported.


She organized La Familia Latina Unida to lobby for immigration
reform so that parents would not be separated from their US-born
children and helped to organize massive street demonstrations
last year.


Her supporters say Homeland Security's decision to refuse to
grant another deportation stay last summer, even though private
member bills supporting her were pending in Congress, was an act
of retaliation against her leadership.


Arellano held a news conference on August 16, 2006 announcing she
was defying her deportation order as an act of civil disobedience
against a "selective, vindictive, retaliatory and inhumane"
order.


Her story drew national attention as the airways were filled with
an intense immigration debate following massive demonstrations
across the country and ahead of the mid-term elections.


The first few weeks were tense as she waited for federal
immigration officials -- who have said they will arrest her at a
time of their choosing -- to break down her door.


Her life has now settled into a routine. She gets Saulito ready
for school and then sits down at a computer where she checks her
MySpace account and answers the phone for a law firm serving
immigrants.


She talks to the activists, students, reporters and well-wishers
who stop by the church, though only those who are expected get
through the padlocked doors and the security cameras.


She helps Saulito with his homework and settles down to sleep
with him on a single bed in a cramped room she shares with
another woman who is taking sanctuary in the church offices.


She has no idea how long she will stay there.


"I don't have a plan," she admits. "We didn't have an agenda when
we started the sanctuary. We just did it."


"Through my fast, through my faith, my struggle here in the
church I hope there will be some type of legalization so
President Bush will stop the raids and everyone can live
legally."


Saulito comes home from school in no mood to give yet another
interview. He'd rather play with his wrestlers, even though two
of the ring's three ropes have broken.


A shy boy, he doesn't like the demonstrations or the attention.
But he knows why he has to keep doing it.


"To tell President Bush to stop the deportations," he told AFP.
"I want to stay here because I have my school here, my friends."

