

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz survived a weekend of
meetings of global financial policymakers but is still under
intense pressure to quit over a favoritism scandal.


Wolfowitz on Sunday refused to resign as the development lender's
member governments revealed their "great concern" over staggering
pay hikes and guaranteed promotions he secured for his girlfriend
at the bank.


But the 185-member bank's ministerial policymakers remained split
on his fate, with the former Pentagon deputy chief continuing to
enjoy strong backing from the US administration.


"The current situation is of great concern to all of us," finance
and aid ministers from the United States, Europe and other
members said in a statement after the bank's spring meeting here.


"We have to ensure that the bank can effectively carry out its
mandate and maintain its credibility and reputation as well as
the motivation of the staff," they said.


The ministers said they would await the findings of a review by
the World Bank's executive board into the conduct of Wolfowitz,
who directed that his Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza, get a pay
deal worth nearly 200,000 dollars.


Wolfowitz, one of the driving forces behind the war in Iraq,
echoed that the board should be allowed to complete its work.


But he also stressed his determination to continue the global
lender's work on improving the plight of the poorest nations,
especially in Africa, where he also enjoys backing.


"This is important work and I intend to continue it," Wolfowitz
told a news conference at the end of a weekend of meetings of the
bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Group of Seven (G7)
rich nations.


Battle lines were drawn as European governments revived their
long-held suspicion of Wolfowitz, a "neoconservative" policy wonk
who was deputy to former defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld before
coming to the bank in 2005.


"It was important to lay down the line. And the fact that the
United States itself accepted it reinforces the message," German
development minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul told reporters.


"An institution like the World Bank lives by its moral authority
and its credibility," she said.


At the press conference, Wolfowitz was grilled on whether his
credibility is now in tatters at a time when the World Bank is
trying to raise up to 25 billion dollars in new funds from its
donors to maintain aid for the poor.


But referring to the ministerial statement, he said: "I think it
speaks for all of us on our desire for the board to look into the
matter and to conclude its work."


Asked if it was hypocritical for him to stay in office while
waging a war on corruption in the World Bank's 24-billion-dollar
annual lending, he said: "I'm not commenting on the premise of
the question. I will just stop there."


Wolfowitz pushed through a package for Riza that included an
immediate 60,000-dollar pay rise and guaranteed promotions, once
she returned from an outside assignment to the US government.


She stayed on the World Bank payroll during her external
assignment from its Middle East arm to the State Department,
which was designed to prevent conflicts of interest after
Wolfowitz took charge of the bank in June 2005.


Wolfowitz first claimed that he had nothing to do with the
generous terms of the assignment, then admitted his involvement
but said he acted in "good faith" to resolve an unprecedented
personnel problem.


Campaigners kept up a clamor for Wolfowitz's head to roll.


"It is absolutely hypocritical for the World Bank to take stands
against corruption in poor countries when its president is
embroiled in a corruption scandal," Eric Gutierrez of ActionAid
said.


"It's time for the board to show Wolfowitz the door."

