

Chinese regulators will limit the number of mainland companies
listing their shares solely in Hong Kong in a bid to encourage
enterprises to join mainland Chinese bourses, a report said
Monday.


Beijing has introduced an unofficial policy allowing Chinese
companies to list in the city only if they seek more than one
billion US dollars or plan a simultaneous listing on the
mainland, the Financial Times reported, citing unnamed investment
bankers and regulatory sources.


The report said the policy is designed to force a large majority
of listing candidates to become A-shares by joining the Shanghai
or Shenzhen bourses instead of in Hong Kong.


Policymakers believe that increasing the numbers of listed
A-share companies will help mop up excess liquidity and prevent a
stock market bubble in China, it said.


They are also concerned that Chinese investors cannot benefit
from the growth of some of the mainland fastest-growing companies
if they are allowed to list H-shares solely in Hong Kong.


An analyst at an IPO department at a Hong Kong investment bank,
who did not want to be identified, told AFP there had been talk
in the industry about such a move as there was a clear decline in
the number of applications for Hong Kong IPOs in the past one to
two months.


"People in the industry are talking about a new practice, which
says IPOs that are at least one billion dollars should choose the
A + H format, while it is hoped that IPOs smaller than one
billion dollars should merely go for an A-share listing," the
analyst said.


Hundreds of Chinese companies have listed their shares in the
southern Chinese territory in recent years amid a long slump in
the mainland markets.


But a resurgence in mainland exchanges -- the benchmark index
climbed 130 percent last year -- fuelled by intense investor
demand has prompted a re-think in Beijing over which companies to
allow to list as H-shares in Hong Kong.


Citic Bank and China Pacific Insurance are among those planning
multi-billion dollar listings in Hong Kong and Shanghai this
year.


Some analysts are concerned that the policy may hasten Hong
Kong's toppling as greater China's leading centre for initial
public offerings but believe its control to the listings would be
limited.


"If they really do that, Hong Kong will be affected. But I think
it wouldn't try to do too much to interfere with the market
because this would make investors think it's not a free market,"
said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Group.


"I think the market is still in quite a healthy development, they
can't limit where people want to raise funds," he said.


Ben Kwong, head of research at KGI Asia, also believe the impact
on the Hong Kong market could be limited.


"The impact might not be as big as people think. Hong Kong will
find other ways to increase market activities. It shouldn't be a
worry for people," he said.


"(Chinese) investors are still willing to come in and take
advantage because they can get foreign people to invest here," he
said. "Hong Kong is still an attractive place to invest."


In January, PwC predicted that Chinese companies would raise 25
billion US dollars via IPOs on mainland exchanges this year, up
50 percent on 2006.


IPO proceeds raised in Hong Kong were expected to come in at 20
billion dollars, down 50 percent, the FT report said.


A spokeswoman for the Hong Kong stock exchange said it would not
comment on press reports but referred to recent remarks made by
CSRC which had denied such plans.


"CSRC had openly said that the Chinese regulators do encourage
mainland companies coming to list in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a
major listing destination for the mainland enterprises," she
added.

