

Ryan Giggs has told his Treble-chasing Manchester United team-
mates to write their place in history as Sir Alex Ferguson's side
return to Premiership action.


Having booked a semi-final Champions League date with AC Milan
and a place in the FA Cup final, United look to extend their lead
at the top of the table when Sheffield United visit Old Trafford
on Tuesday.


Victory will give Ferguson's team a six point lead over second-
placed Chelsea, who face London rivals West Ham 24 hours later at
Upton Park.


And Giggs, a member of the United side which last won the Treble
in 1999, believes the current side are well placed to repeat the
historic feat of eight years ago.


"With the momentum we are building this team are capable of
winning the treble. We need to carry on winning and that will
build the confidence even more," said the Wales winger.


"The history books show the team of 1999 won the Treble. This
team has the ability, but we still have to go out and win the
trophies. "It's a hell of a month coming up. The games are coming
thick and fast.


"But we can put the FA Cup to bed until the final and concentrate
on the Premiership and Champions League."


Having sentenced Roma to a seven-goal Champions League thrashing
last Tuesday before beating Watford 4-1 on Saturday to reach the
FA Cup final for the 18th time, Sheffield United should present
few problems for Ferguson's rampant side.


The Yorkshire club have not won at Old Trafford for 34 years,
although they arrive at the venue in high spirits having secured
a crucial 3-0 win over fellow strugglers West Ham on Saturday.


That has given Neil Warnock's side hope of avoiding relegation in
their first season back in the top-flight since 1994.


"From our point of view we knew that West Ham was an important
game," said Warnock after his side had ended a three-match losing
run.


"I don't think there was anything significant in the result other
than we showed we are still very much in it after people had
written us off over the last few weeks.


"I think the media have presumed both West Ham and Charlton would
finish above us. But we have brought other teams into it now,
which we wanted to do, and I don't think anybody can say who is
safe and who is not."


United are likely to be without Rio Ferdinand. The 28-year-old
England defender limped out of the FA Cup semi-final with a groin
strain, joining Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic, John O'Shea and
Mikael Silvestre on the injured list.


Ferdinand is confident the injury is not too serious and hopes to
be back in action as early as Saturday when Middlesbrough visit
Old Trafford.


"I should be all right for Saturday but don't know about Tuesday
against Sheffield United," said Ferdinand.


Neville may be fit to face AC Milan in the Champions League on 24
April. The United skipper has been missing since suffering an
ankle injury in the win against Bolton in March.


"Gary has a slight chance for the Middlesbrough game but a good
chance for the AC Milan game," said Ferguson.


Ferdinand's injury against Watford on Saturday meant midfielder
Darren Fletcher was deployed as a makeshift right-back, with
left-back Gabriel Heinze partnering Wes Brown in the centre.


Ferguson could be forced to field the same back four on Tuesday
or he could be tempted to give 18-year-old FA Youth Cup star
Craig Cathcart his debut.

