

Director Patrick Tam was the toast of Hong Kong Monday after
sweeping top honours at the city's film awards with his moving
family drama "After This Our Exile", his first feature in 17
years.


Tam's triumphant comeback -- the tale of a gambling addict who
loses his wife and then forces his son to steal to make ends meet
-- earned him five trophies including best film, director and
screenplay.


He sent fellow Hong Kong filmmaker Johnnie To home empty-handed,
despite a combined nine nominations for his gangster sagas
"Election 2" and "Exiled", and also bested Chinese director Zhang
Yimou and his "Curse of the Golden Flower".


"Thank you for the judges' support ... I thank all the actors and
crew members and also God, who gave me such a great gift," Tam
said at the ceremonies late on Sunday.


Gouw Ian Iskandar, a 10-year-old actor who played the son in the
movie, also was the night's big winner, picking up two prizes for
best supporting actor and best new performer.


"Patrick Tam was well deserved the prizes. His film was totally
different from most of Hong Kong's mainstream commercial films.
This is a film rarely seen in Hong Kong," said Jason Lam, a Hong
Kong film critic.


"The quality was of high standard and his directing skills are
outstanding. This is the year's most important film. Patrick Tam
hasn't made a film for 17 years, and this shows that his work is
still very popular," he said.


Another big surprise came when dark horse Lau Ching-wan was named
best actor for the comedy "My Name is Fame", beating out crowd
favourite Chow Yun-fat in "Golder Flower", martial arts star Jet
Li and heartthrob Tony Leung Chiu-wai.


Zhang, whose colourful imperial epic earned 14 nominations, had
to settle for four awards -- best actress for Gong Li, best
costumes and make-up, best art direction and best original song.


The Chinese director also won the best Asian film prize -- but
for his low-key drama "Riding Alone for Thousands of Miles".


Yuen Wo-ping, kung fu choreographer for Hollywood blockbusters
"The Matrix" and "Kill Bill", beat martial arts hero Jackie Chan
to win the best action choreography trophy for "Fearless".


The prize was the only one for the movie, starring Li as a
martial arts master, despite seven nominations.


Movie guru Run Run Shaw, who is 100 years old and whose film
career spanned more than four decades, received a special
"Century Achievement Award" for his contribution to the local
film industry.


The 26th Hong Kong Film Awards struggled to attract some of the
big-name stars, with Zhang, Li, Gong, Chow and To all absent from
the gala event.

