

The deformed feet of Chinese former world-class runner Ai Dongmei
present a less than flattering image of China's sports system as
it gears up for next year's Beijing Olympics.


Ai, 26, once had dreams of running for China at the 2008 Games
but her hopes were shattered by foot injuries that forced the
former marathon star to retire four years ago.


Today she is in a legal battle with her former coach who she
accuses of stealing her winnings and faces the prospect of ending
up in a wheelchair.


Cradling her two-year-old daughter in her arms, Ai told reporters
recently that she would have to sell off her medals just to make
ends meet and was angry at a sports system that she said had left
her destitute.


"I will never allow my child to follow me," she told reporters
here.


"I talked with my former teammates and we all agreed that we
would break their legs rather than allow our children to pursue
the same careers as us."


As China prepares to host the Olympics next year, the comments
reflect badly on a system that has produced stars like world
champion hurdler Liu Xiang and NBA basketball center Yao Ming,
currently the toast of the nation.


But there are also many like Ai, according to Ye Qiaobo, a member
of the 2008 Olympic organising committee and herself one of
China's sporting heroes.


Ye, a speed skater who won China's first ever Winter Olympic
medals -- two silvers in 1992 in Albertville -- said former
athletes deserved to have a state pension much like demobilised
soldiers.


Retired Nanjing businessman Huang Renhai, who travelled to
Beijing last week to meet with Ai and offer her financial
support, agreed with Ye.


"If sports officials don't do something to improve the system, it
will put off young people from becoming athletes," he told the
Beijing News.


Ai, from the northern province of Liaoning, was spotted as a 10
-year-old and sent to a specialist sports academy where China's
future Olympians are groomed.


Ai was a success and earned a spot on the railway ministry's
track and field team, a club for top athletes. She prospered,
winning the Beijing and Dalian marathons in an eight-year stint.


Four years ago her career ground to a halt, with her feet unable
to sustain the demands of coach Wang Dexian, who has since been
banned for life because of his links to doping.


Ai says she was forced to run 60 kilometres (36 miles) a day in
training for the 2001 Chinese national games even after doctors
advised her to rest because of her deformed feet.


Once she retired, she got no pension from her running club and
said she was unfit to make a new career for herself because her
schooling effectively had ended when she was recruited to attend
the sports school at age 10.


"Basically, at that time, book-learning was over for me," she
said.


Now she earns her living by running a clothes stall at a market
in the Beijing suburbs where her husband sells popcorn from a
cart.


She is awaiting the outcome of a lawsuit against Wang, from whom
she is seeking 50,000 yuan (6,300 dollars) in damages for
injuries incurred during training and loss of prize money.


Doctors have told her that without surgery to correct her
injuries, she could end up in a wheelchair.


"I was a marathon runner and I spent eight years of my life
training," Ai said.


"I brought glory to my country, but the money I should have
earned with my sweat and tears has not been paid."


Recent media reports about her plight, however, have triggered
offers of support and her former club has promised to pay her a
pension equivalent to the minimum wage in Beijing and give her a
lump sum payment of 5,000 yuan.


Thanks to Huang, who offered her 20,000 yuan, Ai said she no
longer has to sell her medals.

