

International relief agency Oxfam launched an appeal on Sunday
for five million pounds (7.3 million euros, 9.9 million dollars)
which it said was necessary to continue its work in the strife-
torn Darfur region of Sudan, and neighbouring Chad.


Describing the situation there as "the world's greatest
humanitarian crisis," the charity said its relief work in the two
countries was its biggest emergency programme in the world,
costing about 10 million pounds a year.


"This is the greatest concentration of human suffering in the
world," said Penny Lawrence, Oxfam's international director.


"We once more need the support of the British public to show that
the world cares and help Oxfam to continue to keep people alive."


Four years of ethnic strife in Darfur, in western Sudan, have
resulted in at least 200,000 deaths and displaced more than two
million people, according to UN figures, and the conflict has
spread into neighbouring Chad.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon will open high-level talks in New York on
Monday with the African Union (AU) on the violence that could
clear the way for deploying a sizable UN force in Darfur.


The talks are aimed at nailing down a tentative deal reached with
Khartoum to send about 2,300 UN troops to Darfur to bolster 7,000
under-equipped AU troops, and will also focus on the final phase
of the UN plan expected to culminate in the deployment of a
20,000-strong joint UN-AU force in Darfur.


Khartoum, whose troops and allied Janjawed militia have been
blamed by humanitarian agencies for widespread killing, rapes and
burning of villages in Darfur, has opposed any large-scale UN
military deployment.


Oxfam says it is providing aid to 530,000 people in the two
countries -- 470,000 in Darfur, and 60,000 in Chad, where
Lawrence said the "number of people forced to flee their homes
has doubled in just four months."


"Despite a level of attention to the crisis, international
political inertia has meant that there has been little effective
progress towards a peaceful solution," Lawrence said.


"Greater international efforts are needed. Meanwhile the millions
of innocent people caught up in this outrage cannot wait for the
politicians to agree.


"They need to be kept alive while the political inertia
continues."

