

As former world No. 1 Laura Davies and aspiring No. 1 Lorena
Ochoa faltered, American Brittany Lincicome seized her chance to
capture the 2.6 million-dollar LPGA Ginn Open.


Lincicome, 20, held on through a storm delay and then brutal
winds to card an even par 72 for 10-under 278 and a one-shot
victory over Ochoa, who posted a 77 for 279.


"I never really thought that I had a chance when we set out
today," said Lincicome, who started the day four shots adrift and
had three birdies and three bogeys in her effort. "But level par
was always a score that looked good in these conditions."


Davies, winner of more than 60 career titles worldwide, finished
with a 79 for 281 for third place.


England's Davies and Mexico's Ochoa had shared the lead after
every round and through much of Sunday's wind-whipped fourth
round at the Reunion resort.


Ochoa, last year's LPGA player of the year, could have overtaken
Annika Sorenstam atop the world rankings with a victory here.


Ochoa dropped four shots in four holes with a double-bogey at 13
and bogeys at 15 and 16, leaving her tied with Lincicome one shot
behind Davies heading to the 17th.


It was there that Davies' chance at her first US victory since
2001 slipped through her fingers. After hitting her third shot
over the green she pitched back to five feet, but three-putted
for a double-bogey seven at the par-five hole and fell one shot
behind Ochoa and Lincicome.


All three failed to find the fairway at 18, but Lincicome made
the best recovery. Davies' bid to blast out of a bunker and onto
the green backfired, literally, when she failed to get enough
loft to get over the bunker lip.


Ochoa, meanwhile, was in the left rough off the tee and a bunker
with her second shot. Her third shot rolled back into the fringe,
while Lincicome managed to get her second shot from the rough to
the back of the green.


Lincicome barely missed her par attempt but a closing bogey was
good enough as Ochoa wound up with a double-bogey and Davies a
disappointing triple-bogey finish.


"It is really disappointing," Davies said. "I blew it on 17 and
then at 18 I just had to try and go for it with my second shot.
But I just have to take some positives out of the week."


Davies won a tournament in Norway last year and finished at the
top of the Ladies' European Tour money list.


But she hasn't won on the US tour since the Rochester
International in June 2001, and she still needs two more titles
to enter the LPGA Hall of Fame.


"It's hard to describe," said Ochoa, who could have forced a
playoff with a bogey at the last hole. "Not meant to be. I tried
really hard."


Lincicome claimed her second career victory and booked a berth in
the season- ending LPGA playoffs.


"Tough conditions prove who's the best player," Ochoa said of the
howling winds. "And today it was Brittany, for sure."


American Juli Inkster also signed for a 72 and finished in a tie
for fourth place at 282 with Nicole Castrale (74).

