

New Zealand batsman Peter Fulton believes his side's final Super
Eights match against World Cup holders Australia on Friday will
be anything but a meaningless game even though both teams have
already qualified for the last four.


The Black Caps have yet to reach a World Cup final, although they
are now in their fifth semi-final in the tournament's nine-
edition history.


However, Australia captain Ricky Ponting has said New Zealand are
playing "as well as anyone" in the Caribbean and represent a
major danger to his side's hopes of winning an unprecedented
third straight World Cup title.


"They set the benchmark, they've got a fantastic record in World
Cups and they've been playing very well in this tournament," said
Fulton. "That's going to be a big game for us.


"In some ways it will give us a pretty good indication of where
we are."


Fulton said he didn't care who New Zealand played in the semi-
finals.


"To be honest if you're going to win the World Cup you'll have to
beat Australia at some stage. I don't think it really matters."


Fulton, who made his name as a middle-order batsman, was left on
the sidelines at the start of this tournament.


But after Lou Vincent's World Cup ended last month when his wrist
was broken batting in the nets by New Zealand fast bowler Shane
Bond, the 28-year-old found himself drafted in to open the
innings alongside skipper Stephen Fleming.


"Everytime I go out there I'm feeling a little better adjusted to
it," said Fulton, nicknamed 'two-metre Peter' on account of his
height.


"I think if Stephen and I can get a big partnership going it's
going to increase our chances with our strong middle order.


"I haven't done too much batting with him in the past but he's a
good guy to bat with, he's pretty relaxed and keeps it pretty
simple," added Fulton averaging over 31 in the tournament so
far."


New Zealand bounced back from their six wicket-defeat by Sri
Lanka on Thursday when they returned to Grenada's National
Stadium 48 hours later and beat South Africa by five wickets.


That match saw New Zealand exploit early moisture in the pitch
and helpful overcast conditions as they held the Proteas to 193
for seven.


"The first five to ten overs here are pretty crucial some times
because the wickets are a little bit damp," said Fulton.


"So the onus is on the opening batsmen to get through that period
to assess what's going to be a good score and also maintain a
strike rate.


"As we saw yesterday (Saturday) South Africa got themselves in a
little bit of trouble.


"The wicket was doing a bit but the fact they were so slow (after
10 overs South Africa had scored just 12 runs and lost two
wickets as well) early on probably cost them in the end."

