

US Senator Hillary Clinton revealed late Sunday that her campaign
had raised 36 million dollars, which is the highest amount of
money in its first quarter of any presidential candidate ever.


Campaign officials said Clinton has by far the most cash on hand
to spend in both primary and general elections of any candidate
in the 2008 presidential field.


"These numbers indicate the tremendous support for Senator
Clinton from every walk of life and every part of America, and
assure that we will have the resources needed to compete and
win," Clinton campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle said in a
statement.


In a report being filed Sunday with the Federal Election
Commission, the Clinton campaign said its total receipts in the
first quarter had reached 36 million dollars.


Twenty-six million of that amount was raised in the ten weeks
between the campaign's launch in late January and March 31.


An additional 10 million was transferred from the senator's
reelection campaign of 2006, according to the report.


The senator had 24 million dollars she could legally spend on the
primary election campaign and 6.9 million for the general
election campaign.


The campaign for Senator Barak Obama has not yet publicly
released its filing, which was due at the FEC at midnight Sunday
(0400 GMT Monday).


The disclosure reports were expected to cement the juggernaut
status of Obama and Clinton, who are leading in the Democratic
field.


On the Republican side, the filings were also expected to confirm
early reports that presidential hopeful John McCain is lagging
far behind his Republican rivals in reaping in donations.


Early cash amount estimates through March 31 have already been
released but the final disclosure statements reveal additional,
critical details about the inner workings of a campaign, showing
the number and type of donors.


They show how much money each donor gave, in an indication of
whether a candidate is strong in institutional or grassroots
support, or both.


The figures are likely to reveal that Obama, who has claimed that
many of his donations were small amounts from individual donors,
also netted a significant number of political insiders with deep
pockets, the Washington Post said Sunday.


Sunday's disclosure statements are seen as important barometers
of the health of a campaign, in that they show not only how much
money candidates have raised, but how much they have left to
spend.


The cost of mounting a presidential challenge is spiraling upward
with each successive election season.


Pundits say the major candidates will each have to raise at least
100 million or more before the first primary and caucus votes are
cast beginning next January.


The first ballots in the presidential primaries and caucus votes
to select candidates are still nine months away, but the battle
for donors starts early.


McCain, for example, has been trailing in opinion polls, even as
his expensive campaign operation burns through cash and has some
1.8 million dollars in unpaid bills.


Once viewed as a Republican frontrunner, the Arizona senator had
5.2 million dollars available by the end of March according to
early estimates, less than half the amount of his main Republican
rivals.


His support is said to have fallen in part because of his staunch
support for President George W. Bush's unpopular military
strategy in Iraq -- even in the face of growing public unease
with the US military presence there.


Rival Republican candidate Rudy Giuliani -- former mayor of New
York City -- reported a campaign war chest of 10.8 million.


Meanwhile, Mitt Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, had
11.9 million, according to the early campaign disclosure reports,
which showed he garnered some 20.7 million dollars in
contributions.


McCain raised some 13 million dollars during the period -- nearly
as much as Giuliani -- but dipped deeper into his campaign's
coffers, spending some 8.4 million dollars.

