

Britain's Gurkha regiment used to sow such fear in the hearts of
Argentine soldiers in the Falklands that they preferred to
surrender rather than fight the knife-wielding Nepalese mountain
men.


But as Britain marks the 25th anniversary of the recapture of the
islands, conflict veteran San Bahadur Tamang has accused his
former masters of discrimination, saying he deserves more for his
sacrifices.


"Like me, many ex-British Gurkha soldiers are still languishing
despite the fact that we were once a part of the British army,"
the 51-year-old former sergeant told AFP.


Tamang says he gets a pension of around 100 pounds (200 dollars)
a month, far below that received by his British former colleagues
and a figure he says is not enough to support his family.


He is also denied the automatic right to reside in Britain, a
country he served for 17 years.


"This is very discriminatory and we deserve much more," said
Tamang, wearing a smart blazer, a tie with images of the famed
Gurkha Kukuri knife and five British medals pinned to his chest.


The British first became aware of the Gurkhas in 1815 when they
sent an expeditionary force to try and take over the hilly region
of Gorkha in what is now central Nepal.


Impressed by the ferocity of their fighting and their good
nature, the British began to recruit the hill warriors for their
army, and the Gurkhas have fought in nearly every major British
military engagement since.


Around 200,000 Gurkhas fought for the British in the first and
second world wars; some 43,000 were killed or wounded. Today
there are around 3,500 Gurkhas serving in the British army.


Tamang smiles as he recalls his time on the windswept and icy
South Atlantic battleground of the Falklands.


"Many colleagues were injured in Argentinian mortar attacks. But
just before engaging them in battle we heard that they had
surrendered," said the softly- spoken veteran.


Perhaps the Argentine forces had seen pictures released by the
British defence ministry showing smiling Gurkhas sharpening their
long, curved Kukuri knives, used to great effect in hand-to-hand
combat for centuries.


"I think the Argentinians were scared of us because of our fierce
fighting skills. They had the notion that Gurkha soldiers live in
the jungle and were cannibals... this must have scared them to
death," said Tamang.


Nepal remains one of the poorest countries on the planet, and
there is fierce competition here for the 230 British army
positions offered annually -- this year over 14,600 Nepali men
applied.


Although Tamang does not regret his time in the British army, he
resents the treatment meted out since his retirement.


According to rules dating back to 1947, he receives a pension
linked to that paid to Nepali Gurkhas serving in the Indian army.


Last month, the British defence ministry announced a shake-up in
pay and conditions for Gurkhas which means that those currently
serving will be entitled to the same salary, benefits and
pensions as their British colleagues.


The new rules affect only those Gurkhas who retired after 1997
when their base moved from Hong Kong to Britain. For Tamang, who
retired in 1992, and thousands like him, nothing has changed.


"It is good that the new generation is getting the benefits, but
we should not be ignored," said Tamang, whose father also served
in the famed regiment.


"All ex-British Gurkhas should get equal pensions and settlement
rights and our children should get opportunities to work in the
UK.


"The pension I am getting today is not enough even by Nepali
standards. I don't have any side jobs. With that amount I have to
raise my kids, educate them and make a living for my whole family
which is very difficult," he said.


The British government has said that those who served as Gurkhas
before the move from Hong Kong back to Britain are not eligible
for residence because they cannot "demonstrate the close ties" to
Britain required under immigration law.


Some 2,500 retired Gurkhas and widows protested in London earlier
this month for increased rights for those discharged before 1997.


Tamang believes that because the Gurkhas faced the same risks and
challenges as their British comrades, they should be entitled to
equal benefits.


"We worked under the British military rules and regulations," he
said. "Wherever we were dispatched, we were told that we were a
part of the British army."

