

Leftist Ecuadoran President Rafael Correa celebrated victory
Monday after voters apparently approved his plan to rewrite the
country's constitution, by a larger than three to one margin.


According to unofficial national exit polls, 78.1 percent of
voters, in a national referendum held Sunday, backed his plan for
convening an assembly to draft a new constitution.


Early official returns from less than 10 percent of voting
districts indicated the president's proposal had the support of
84.1 percent of Ecuadorans.


"For the government's part, we will always respond with more
democracy, as we have done this Sunday," the president said at a
news conference in the southwestern port of Guayaquil.


The leftist economist's remark appeared aimed at deflecting
criticism that he wants to take Ecuador down the path of his
ally, Venezuela's firebrand socialist president, Hugo Chavez.


The widely popular Correa, 44, had threatened to quit if voters
had rejected his plan to remake the constitution, which he wants
to use to tighten state control of the economy, particularly in
the oil and financial sectors.


About 11.5 percent of voters opposed the plan, while 7.1 percent
of the ballots were invalid and 3.3 percent were blank, according
to the Cedatos-Gallup poll of 40,000 voters.


The survey had a margin of error of two percentage points and the
private company's results were broadcast by the television
network Ecuavisa.


If, as expected, the victory is confirmed, Ecuadorans would be
called to elect a 130-seat Constituent Assembly between October
and November, which would be tasked with writing a new
constitution. The text would be submitted to a national
referendum in 2008.


Correa said that Sunday's approval at the polls was not "a
victory of a single man, but of the country," one of the poorest
and most unstable in South America.


He rejected the notion of an "imposition of a foreign model," as
suggested by opponents critical of his alliance with Chavez, a
fierce foe of US President George W. Bush.


A national assembly of elected Chavez supporters rewrote
Venezuela's constitution in 1999.


"Never will we allow the imposition of a foreign model. As we
say, the Ecuadoran people have learned to have confidence in
ourselves," he told reporters.


In Caracas, Chavez congratulated Correa on his victory. "An
applause for President Correa ... That is how Latin America is
moving forward, from victory to victory, from triumph to triumph.
They are political, moral, economic and social victories."


Correa, speaking at the news conference, said he would expel the
World Bank's representative in Quito, accusing him of withdrawing
funds in retaliation for the government's oil sector reforms.


He said the World Bank official had tried to blackmail him when
he was economy minister in 2005 with a loan of 100 million
dollars.


"We will expel the World Bank representative from the country
because we are not going to take a bribe from anyone," Correa
said, without naming the official.


The bank's current representative in Ecuador is Eduardo
Somensato.


Correa has set out a sweeping reform program for his five-year
mandate that would include reversing free-market measures,
renegotiating foreign oil contracts and cutting ties with the
International Monetary Fund.


The opposition, conceding defeat in the referendum, warned that
Correa's plan threatens democracy and the economy.


"The Ecuadoran economy will be pigeonholed by all the
organizations as the worst bet in Latin America. As for
democracy, there is not doubt it is in grave danger," said
Osvaldo Hurtado, former president in 1981-1984 and head of the
Christian Democratic Union.


Some 9.2 million people were eligible to vote in the referendum,
after an intense campaign by Correa, the country's eighth
president in a politically turbulent decade.


The country recently sank into a political crisis with the
firings of lawmakers by an electoral court.


Tension eased somewhat after substitutes for the ousted members
were sworn in, but the opposition deputies still claimed their
ousting had been illegal.

