

Wayne Rooney admits Manchester United's breathtaking form has
reinvigorated him for the decisive final weeks of the season.


United have enjoyed a week to remember with Tuesday's 7-1
Champions League thrashing of Roma followed by a 4-1 FA Cup semi-
final win over Watford on Saturday.


Those magnificent displays underlined exactly why Rooney is
desperate to play in every game despite the hectic schedule faced
by Sir Alex Ferguson's treble chasers.


The England striker, who scored twice against Watford, is
convinced he can take the strain of putting his body on the line
in so many high-stakes games.


"I have never experienced an end of season like this one before
but I don't need a rest," Rooney said.


"I love to play. I feel fit and strong and a match every three or
four days is fine by me. That is what you come to a big club for.


"We have not played as well as this during my time at United.
Some of our attacking football has been brilliant and I am
delighted to be a part of it."


United's win against Watford set up a showdown against Chelsea in
the first FA Cup final to be played at the rebuilt Wembley.


Rooney last visited Wembley in its' old guise to see Everton play
against United in the 1995 FA Cup final when he was just nine.


Everton won that day but Rooney also has painful memories of the
FA Cup final as well after playing in United's penalty shoot-out
defeat against Arsenal in 2005.


"People were writing us off not that long ago but we knew we had
a lot of young players coming through and the situation would
change," said Rooney.


"Now we have made a bit of history by reaching the first FA Cup
final at Wembley and hopefully we can go on and win it.


"We lost to Arsenal in 2005, which was very hard to take given
the way we dominated the game. We are determined to put that
right this year."


Rooney is on course for the best goal-scoring season in his young
career after his double on Saturday took his tally to 19.


His previous best was 21 last season and he added: "I always try
to match or do better than my previous goal tally and to equal
now with so many games left to go is very pleasing," he said.
"Hopefully I can get more.


"I am doing quite well at the minute and long may that continue."

