

The centuries-old Library of Congress in Washington is battling
to keep up with the Internet age by digitizing millions of books,
manuscripts and photos in an operation that could take decades.


Two million visitors walk through the doors of the library each
year. But in a sign of how times are changing, the same number of
people consult its pages on the Internet every single day.


"It's a philosophical shift for the library," said Beth Dulabahn,
one of the top advisors on the project. "The vast majority of
what is digitized will be on the web."


When the plans first began 12 years ago, plenty of people inside
the world's largest library -- and the oldest federal cultural
institution in America -- were hard to win over.


"At first people were skeptical or not hugely enthusiastic. Some
people said we were giving it away. But that's what we want to
do," she said.


With 11 million items digitized so far, Dulabahn says this is
"only the tip of the iceberg" because a "huge quantity of items
and documents is always being poured in."


The work completed so far covers less than 10 percent of the 134
million books and documents filed along the 853 kilometers (530
miles) of shelves in the immense library which was first founded
in 1800.


British troops in 1814 torched the Capitol building where the
library was first housed, destroying its core collection, but a
new library was built the next year with the purchase of Thomas
Jefferson's personal collection of 6,000 books.


The library's older documents were among the first to be
digitized, in part because documents published before 1923 fall
into the public domain, allowing library officials to avoid the
thorny issues involved with author copyrights.


But project advisors also wanted to showcase a unique historical
selection for Internet users, including famous manuscripts, maps
and pictures.


The collections, viewable on www.loc.gov, are showcased through
windows such as "American Memory" featuring US historical items,
or "Global Gateway" with multilingual contributions from foreign
libraries.


"A child can go to (former US president) George Washington's
letters, can look how his handwriting looks like and download a
picture of Mt. Vernon where he used to live," said Jeremy
Adamson, who heads the images department.


It's a "very democratic and liberating thing," he said. "People
react with much more engagement."


And the library learns from the process, too.


"We got an email from northern Europe after we put out a
collection of early photographs of Russia before the (1917)
Revolution," Adamson recalled. "They said, 'no, it was not this
village, it was this one'."


The Library of Congress has spent 160 million dollars on
digitization since 1994 and has received an extra 38 million
dollars in private funds toward the goal.


The work is hardly glamorous. A technician works in a dark room,
taking digital pictures. A large color document could take 20
minutes or more, but in the general rhythm of a day's work,
75-200 documents are digitized.


Some non-exclusive contracts are signed with private partners.
The search engine Google has also taken part, scanning 5,000
books that fall into the public domain and 18,000 Congressional
documents.


The library is even stepping into other digital domains, by
conserving websites such as those on US elections, Hurricane
Katrina, the Olympic Games and Iranian blogs, whose lives on the
web tend to be otherwise quite short.

