

Wigan manager Paul Jewell refused to criticise his players after
they squandered a glorious opportunity to boost their survival
hopes.


Jewell's side led three times against Tottenham on Sunday but
were eventually forced to settle for a 3-3 draw that left them
just three points from the relegation zone.


Wigan, who are without a win in five matches, have now let 26
points slip from their gasp after wasting winning positions this
season.


But Jewell was looking on the bright side and insisted the point
they finished up with at the JJB Stadium could be decisive at the
end of the season.


"There's only four games to go, so I can't keep saying we've lost
so many points from leads," Jewell said.


"What we have to do is get more points than three other teams in
this league. That's all I'm interested in.


"In the cold light of a day that point might just be the one that
keeps us up."


Jewell could have been forgiven for feeling down after a game
that promised so much for his struggling side but he remained
resolutely upbeat and said: "That was as well as we have played
for a long time going forward. We were excellent.


"We can analyse the season when we are finished, but we are in
the middle of a battle, so we'll take anything we can get, and
we've a point more than we had this time on Saturday."


Wigan took the lead after 55 seconds when Tottenham failed to
clear Denny Landzaat's first minute free-kick. Matt Jackson's
shot was headed weakly by Phil Ifil to Emile Heskey and the
England international was on hand to stab home at the second
attempt.


It took Spurs just three minutes to draw level. Robbie Keane's
trickery took him into the area and he laid off a pass for
Dimitar Berbatov. The Bulgarian evaded two challenges and drove a
low shot past John Filan for his 20th goal of the season.


Wigan regained the lead after half an hour. Leighton Baines has
shown his ability from long range several times theis season and
he hit a dipping half- volley that gave Paul Robinson no chance
as it flashed into top corner.


Yet Wigan were unable to build on their lead and Spurs were back
on level terms after 35 minutes.


Jermaine Jenas was shoved in the back by Baines as he surged into
the area, but it was Filan's sliding challenge on the Spurs
midfielder that sent him stumbling to the turf.


Referee Graham Poll pointed to the spot and Keane wrong-footed
Filan to easily convert the penalty.


Wigan got their third goal of a superb match in the 60th minute.
Ryan Taylor whipped over an inswinging corner and Kevin Kilbane
muscled his way in front of Didier Zokora to thump a header past
Robinson.


But Jewell's side continued to display a complete lack of
defensive nous and a misjudgement by Jackson gave Keane his
second equaliser after 68 minutes.


Robinson sent a huge punt down field and centre-back Jackson
allowed the ball to bounce through to Keane, who brilliantly
lobbed Filan from 25 yards.


Spurs manager Martin Jol was delighted with the way his side kept
fighting just three days after their UEFA Cup exit against
Sevilla.


"It was a hell of a game, which is probably not what you want
after four games in 10 days," said Jol.


"We had lost one of our last eight before this, and we did not
want to lose today.


"Before the game we would not have settled for a point, but after
it you have to, particularly when you concede two goals from set
pieces."

