

England's experience of fighting back to win this year's
triangular one-day series in Australia could help them revive
their ailing World Cup campaign, according to Ricky Ponting.


Michael Vaughan's side face South Africa in Barbados on Tuesday
in a game they must win if they are to keep alive their hopes of
a semi-final place.


Their form in the Caribbean has been mediocre at best. But it was
a similar story in Australia when, after a 5-0 Ashes hammering by
the hosts they endured a wretched start to the subsequent
Commonwealth Bank one-day series.


However, they recovered to beat Australia 2-0 in the finals in
February.


Australia captain Ponting, asked if England could enjoy a similar
revival in the West Indies, replied: "I think there's a good
chance that could happen.


"South Africa aren't playing their best cricket at the moment.


"England probably haven't played their best cricket through this
tournament yet either so I can see that being a bit closer game
than what a lot of people might think."


Ponting, nicknamed 'Punter' for his love of betting on
greyhounds, added: "England, having been there and done it before
in the Commonwealth Bank series, when everyone had written them
off, know they have a chance of doing it again.


"It's a do or die game for them. If they win that, and the next
one (against the West Indies on Saturday), they'll probably sneak
through to the semi-finals which would be a great result for
them."


Although Australia beat England by seven wickets in Antigua on
April 8, there was a moment at 64 for two, with Kevin Pietersen -
whose 104 was England's first individual hundred of the
tournament - and Ian Bell (77) going well in a stand of 140, when
the champions were up against it.


"Our closest, hardest game so far has been the England game,"
said Ponting whose team were facing fellow semi-finalists Sri
Lanka here on Monday.


"But, saying that, we're ready for a good, hard, honest contest
here and I think these conditions will probably suit Sri Lanka
right down to the ground."


South Africa, who suffered a shock 67-run Super Eights defeat
against Bangladesh in Guyana on April 7, lost to New Zealand by
five wickets on Saturday after being sent in to bat on a seam-
bowler friendly pitch under overcast skies.


But up until recently they were top of the one-day international
rankings and in March last year they scored a world 438 for nine
batting second to beat Australia by one wicket in Johannesburg.


"They probably didn't get the best of the conditions the other
day but that can happen and they've probably lost a couple more
games than I thought they would in this part of the tournament,"
said Ponting.


"But if they get everything right, I know how dangerous a side
they can be."

