

The United Arab Emirates is still sitting on huge reserves of oil
and natural gas, but now it plans to harness yet another of its
abundant natural resources -- the year-round sunshine.


In the vast desert surrounding the capital Abu Dhabi, the
authorities are planning to spread arrays of solar panels to
transform the blazing sun into energy.


The plan may be expensive, but the handsome surpluses currently
earned from oil revenues can cover the cost.


"In the UAE today we do not suffer from a lack of energy
security, but we never want to suffer from it," said Sultan al-
Jaber, chief executive officer of the Abu Dhabi Future Energy
Company (ADFEC).


"We are thinking ahead of ourselves," he told AFP as he explained
ADFEC's initiative to develop alternative energy -- branded
Masdar, or "source" in Arabic.


The government-backed initiative is ambitious, aimed not only at
generating solar power but also at luring major manufacturers to
produce the required technology locally.


Jaber describes the Masdar initiative as a whole new economic
sector fully dedicated to alternative energy, which will also
have a positive impact on the emirate's economy.


Abu Dhabi sits on most of the UAE's oil and gas reserves, ranked
respectively as fifth and fourth in the world. Proven oil
reserves on their own are expected to last for another 150 years.


But like most oil-producing countries, the UAE also wants to
diversify its economy in order to ease its traditional economic
dependency on oil.


The idea of solar power has also appealed to the ruler of
neighbouring Dubai, Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid al-Maktoum, who
said this month that solar technology is the "best renewable
option (for Dubai) going forward."


The booming city-state, which unlike Abu Dhabi has dwindling oil
wealth, faces a surging demand for energy to power its rapid
economic development.


Such "green" talk brings wide grins to the faces of environmental
activists.


"This is a very good prospect for the country's energy sector,"
said Habiba al- Marashi, who chairs the non-governmental Emirates
Environmental Group.


"It is very encouraging to know that the leaders of the country
are making moves to shift to renewable sources of energy," she
told AFP, predicting that it will blaze a trail for other
initiatives.


Abu Dhabi's ambition also aims to maintain its world reputation
as an energy exporter.


"It is time for Abu Dhabi to start positioning itself as a
(solar) technology developer... This is to maintain, and
hopefully expand, Abu Dhabi's position in the global market,"
Jaber said.


In practical terms, Masdar has announced plans to build a 350
-million-dollar 100-megawatt solar plant, which will later be
boosted to 500 megawatts to help ease peak-time pressure on the
national grid.


The plant, which will use concentrated solar power (CSP)
technology, will be tendered in August to foreign developers who
it is hoped will also bring in investment.


On the research and development front, ADFEC announced late in
February that it was teaming up with the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (MIT) to establish the Masdar Institute of Science
and Technology.


This will be developed on part of a six-square-kilometre (two and
a half-square- mile) plot of land granted by the government of
Abu Dhabi and dedicated to become an energy cluster.


"Our target is to have the Masdar zone as a showcase of
sustainability," Jaber said, insisting that Abu Dhabi wants to
invest in research and development to enrich its human capital.


Lamenting as "unfair" the UAE's ranking by the World Wildlife
Fund as a top per capita emitter of carbon dioxide (CO2) because
of its high energy consumption, Jaber said the Masdar zone is
planned to have a zero CO2 emission.


Despite its constant access to sunshine, only parking meters
currently seem to be powered by solar energy in the UAE. Even
solar water-heaters -- popular in several sunny countries -- are
seldom seen.


Other Gulf countries share a similar poor record in exploiting
solar energy.


But Masdar wants to take the UAE within six years from total
negligence of solar power to becoming an exporter of solar
technlogy.


Jaber said ADFEC expected within two months to sign an agreement
with a major producer to manufacture photovoltaic components in
the Masdar zone.


Besides solar power, ADFEC is also looking into the possible use
of wind to generate electricity, with feasibility studies being
conducted as far as 15 kilometres (nine miles) offshore.


Jaber said that a wind atlas for the UAE will be available in
about nine months.


It remains to be seen, however, whether the UAE will be able to
allocate enough space for solar panels and wind farms while the
value of land continues to soar on the back of a robust
construction sector.


"This is one of the challenges when making the move to shift to
alternative energy... We are confident that there will soon be a
balance of priority between the property and the energy sectors,"
said environmentalist Marashi.

