

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar has said his team would like to
cap their rollercoaster World Cup campaign with an impressive
performance.


Bangladesh suffered a setback when they lost their Super Eights
match by 74 runs against non-Test-playing nation Ireland at the
Kensington Oval here on Sunday, their fourth defeat in five games
in the second round.


"Our last game is coming up against the West Indies and we hope
we do well in that and go home with some credit," said Bashar,
whose side take on the hosts in their final match here on
Thursday.


"We don't want to be number eight. We want to be number six or
seven. We have one game left and still believe we are not as bad
as we played today."


Bangladesh are currently occupying the eighth and last position
in the Super Eights table with two points from six matches.


Inconsistency has been the problem for Bangladesh, who posted
surprise victories over India and South Africa before floundering
against the Cup debutants.


"One day we look brilliant, the next day we are ordinary. We
should be more consistent. We beat two top teams and then came to
a game we should have won, but lost," said the Bangladesh
captain.


Bangladesh suffered a blow even before the first ball had been
bowled against Ireland as they lost in-form seamer Syed Rasel to
an ankle injury in the warm- up.


"Rasel's loss was a big one because he has been bowling well in
the tournament," Bashar said.


Ireland posted a challenging 243-7 after electing to bat and then
restricted Bangladesh to 169.


Trent Johnston's Irishmen shocked Pakistan in a group game in
Jamaica last month, a victory that eventually knocked the former
champions out of the tournament.


"We were pretty ordinary in the field today and I think we
deserved to lose. I know we lost the toss, but we'd have bowled
first anyway. We had the early advantage, but did not use it,"
said Bashar.


"Full credit to Ireland. They batted pretty well. Overall, they
played better cricket than us. They were more consistent than
us."


Bashar conceded a little went right for his side after losing the
toss as they put in a below-par performance in all departments of
the game.


"I don't know what happened today. We played pretty ordinary
cricket. It was one of those days when nothing went right for us.
We dropped too many catches and missed a couple of run-out
chances," he said.


"We didn't seem to have a gameplan when we batted. We were
supposed to keep wickets, but kept losing them in the opening 20
overs. If we had batted the 50 overs, I think we would have won
the game."

