

Thousands of Iranian surfers every month visit a new Holocaust
website in Farsi run by Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial,
despite their leadership's questioning the Nazi genocide of Jews,
the museum said.


Israel is on Monday marking the country's annual Holocaust
Remembrance Day.


The website was put online by Yad Vashem in Jerusalem in January,
and has so far had some 25,100 visits, including 12,170 from
inside Iran, spokeswoman Estee Yaari said.


It includes 20 historical chapters on World War II, the Nazi
regime, the systematic killings and photos from the Nazi death
camps and ghettos.


"We believe that making credible, comprehensive information about
the Holocaust available to Persian speakers can contribute to the
fight against Holocaust denial," said Yad Vashem Chairman Avner
Shalev.


Iran's firebrand President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has branded the
systematic killing of six million of Europe's Jews as a "myth,"
and last year Tehran hosted a controversial revisionist Holocaust
conference, sparking an international outcry.


Shalev calls the website a powerful tool against Ahmadinejad's
rhetoric, which has included calls for the Jewish state to be
"wiped off the map."


"Ahmadinejad's Holocaust denial is especially dangerous because
he wants to use it not only to diminish the existence of the
Holocaust, but sees it as a method for paving the way towards the
possibility of destroying Israel," Shalev said.


Although Yad Vashem generally shies from tainting its work in
political tones, Shalev admits that the Farsi website has "an
important political meaning" in Israel's dealing with the Islamic
republic.


"The possibility for anybody in Iran to reach objective and
balanced information in Farsi is very important... the opposition
in Iran is important and people are looking for information,"
Shalev said.


According to emails translated by Yad Vashem, most Iranian
surfers who visit the site say they are staunch opponents of
their country's leadership.


"The world should not allow people such as Ahmadinejad to fulfil
their evil intentions," wrote one.


"I think you should invite the president of Iran to Yad Vashem,
just to see how he will respond to this," wrote another anonymous
reader.

