

The United Nations Children's Fund on Monday launched a massive
immunisation and health programme in the southern Philippines.


Under an agreement with the 12,000-member Moro Islamic Liberation
Front (MILF), Unicef is to provide basic health services to 707
small villages on Mindanao and other southern islands.


Unicef's country representative for the Philippines, Nicholas
Alipui, said: "It is time for us to bridge the gap and reduce the
stark disparities that affect children in the Philippines."


"We are building bridges that will help consolidate peace and
development as we work together to bring about more investment in
programmes for children."


Unicef said some 30,000 infants would be immunised against
preventable diseases between April 16 and the end of June.


The health services would cover many of the poorest areas of the
Philippines and would eventually include vitamin supplements
(beginning with Vitamin A), a de- worming programme and tetanus
shots for 16,500 expectant mothers.


The joint communique signed by Unicef and the MILF also called
for the delivery of "additional basic services" including "birth
registrations, malaria control, educational supplies," and the
setting up of "community-based health programmes in selected
areas."


Most of the target villages were chosen by the MILF. The campaign
will be jointly managed by the MILF development agency and Jesus
Dureza, President Gloria Arroyo's adviser on peace talks with the
the Muslim rebels.


"The Days of Peace campaign requires a commitment to full
cessation of hostilities from all parties to facilitate maximum
delivery of services for children," the joint communique said.


"The MILF will be in charge of providing access and guaranteeing
security for the service delivery teams."


The Philippine government is observing a three-year-old ceasefire
with the MILF, helped by a small team of international monitors
from Malaysia, Libya and Brunei.


However, peace talks have stalled since September last year over
MILF demands for a share of revenues in areas in the south that
it considers part of the large Muslim minority's "ancestral
domain".


The Philippines is a largely Roman Catholic nation that has
battled Muslim separatism since the early 1970s.


It signed a peace treaty with another faction, the Moro National
Liberation Front in 1996 that gave limited Muslim self-rule in
several impoverished Muslim provinces in the south.

