

Sixty years after Jackie Robinson became the first black player
in modern Major League Baseball, his legacy was honored at games
across the United States on Sunday.


Robinson, whose number 42 was retired for all Major League
Baseball clubs at ceremonies 10 years ago in New York, played for
the Brooklyn Dodgers and was the National League's Rookie of the
Year in 1947.


He played his first game for the Dodgers on April 15, 1947, and
60 years on every member of the Los Angeles Dodgers donned No. 42
in his memory.


Robinson's widow, Rachel Robinson, long-time Dodgers broadcaster
Vin Scully and major league commissioner Bud Selig addressed the
Los Angeles crowd prior the game.


Hall of Famers Hank Aaron - the all-time home run leader - and
Frank Robinson - the first black major league manager - threw out
first pitches.


Withstanding racial insults and slights in an era of
discrimination, Robinson was a trail blazer for black rights and
such modern-day stars as Derek Jeter, Barry Bonds and Ken Griffey
Jnr.


It was Griffey who wrote to Selig and asked permission to wear
No. 42 on Sunday.


Selig liked the idea so much he expanded it, and more than 200
players and managers joined the tribute.


Even sportsmen outside of baseball were moved to honor Robinson,
who died in 1972 at age 53.


The No. 42 NASCAR stock car of Colombian Juan Pablo Montoya
sported a special Jackie Robinson Day sticker, while the NBA's
Jerry Stackhouse supplemented his regular number 42 Mavericks
jersey by writing Robinson's name on his sneakers.


"I think a lot of people wouldn't be in this locker room if it
wasn't for what he did," Cincinnati's Griffey said.


Two of the players sporting No. 42 jerseys - the Cardinals'
Albert Pujols and Arizona's Tony Clark - hit home runs, while
Cleveland's C.C. Sabathia wore it as he struck out 10 White Sox
and then talked about how he wanted to make sure he represented
Robinson's legacy with grace and class.


All-Star Dontrelle Willis, a 20-game winner, said wearing No. 42
was "the highest honor I've ever received in my life."


Marlins ace Willis said it wasn't just Robinson's talent, but his
ability to handle animosity that ranged from constant petty
insults to death threats with grace that allowed Robinson to act
as an agent of social change.


"I don't think anybody in this day and age could go through
that," Willis said. "Some people are just made for things, and he
was."


In an opinion piece published in the Pioneer Press, Minnesota
player Torri Hunter said understanding of Robinson's experience
wasn't limited to African- Americans.


"You don't have to be African-American to know what he went
through. You've just got to be a smart person or a person who
knows what pain is like," Hunter wrote.


Hunter also noted that racism still rears its head in US sports,
as it does in the society at large, and wrote that he himself has
heard racial slurs from opposing fans.


Ironically, Robinson's tribute day came on the heels of a
national outcry over racist remarks by radio host Don Imus, who
was fired in the wake of belitting comments about the mostly
black Rutgers University women's basketball team.


And the anniversary has prompted renewed scrutiny of the decline
in the number of African-American players in the game, even as
more latinos and asians join the major league ranks.


"He would think the struggle is still on and he would not be
satisfied with where we are," Rachel Robinson told USA Today this
week.


Willis said baseball - and perhaps the United States as a whole -
would benefit from more frequent reminders of Robinson's story.


"I don't think it should be every 10 years that all of a sudden I
see (Robinson) on SportsCenter," he said. "I think it should be
Jackie Robinson month ... It shouldn't take every 10 years or
every fifth year to give this man his due."

