

Punks, rockers and scantily-dressed youths thronged the streets
of Yangon at the weekend for a raucous Buddhist New Year party,
despite warnings from Myanmar's junta against any subversive
behaviour.


Celebrated solemnly in other parts of Southeast Asia, the
Thingyan festival, as it is known here, offers the people of this
isolated military-ruled state the rare chance to gather in public
en masse and truly let their hair down.


"This period is the free time for all. Friends can gather
happily, and lovers can meet freely with the excuse that they are
celebrating Thingyan," said 38 -year-old Tin Tin.


Revellers sporting flamboyant punk hair-dos in red, blue and
yellow gathered under tight security at small stages across
Yangon where bands played and water flew as partygoers engaged in
traditional water fights.


Some dressed as rappers or rockers, while others wore as little
as possible, with mini-skirts, bikinis and skimpy tops on rare
display throughout the country's commercial capital.


The culture ministry warned the population ahead of the festival
not to wear indecent clothes that were "contrary to Myanmar's
traditions".


Myanmar is one of the few countries in Southeast Asia where the
majority of people still wear traditional clothing every day,
with most men donning a traditional sarong called the longyi and
women wearing demure long skirts.


But 24-year-old Mu Mu said no one had been punished for wearing
revealing outfits, saying the surprising sartorial statement was
not about provocation, but just good, clean fun.


"Many youths want to out-do each other -- that's why they wear
these clothes," Mu Mu said.


The four-day celebration, which ends on Monday, seemed to pass
without incident.


However, the nose and lip rings and gravity-defying spiked
hairstyles will likely be removed Tuesday as life returns to
normal in the former Burma, which has been ruled by military
dictatorships since 1962.


In a country where you can be jailed for holding a public
gathering or criticising the junta, people are usually at pains
to conform or risk trouble from the authorities.


A small protest in Yangon in February against economic hardship
and rising commodity prices prompted the junta to arrest 20
people, including the protest leader and journalists covering the
event. All have since been released.


For Thingyan, the authorities warned partygoers not to shout any
political slogans or create unrest during the water festival --
one of the rare moments in Myanmar when citizens are authorised
to march in the streets.


Nevertheless, Myanmar's pro-democracy activists are planning to
use the holiday to cast the spotlight on their cause.


On Tuesday, one group will hold a ceremony for the family members
of political prisoners, symbolically releasing fish into Inya
lake near the home of detained democracy leader and Nobel
laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.


"We will release the fish on New Year's Day, wishing to release
all political prisoners," said activist Min Ko Naing.


Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party won
elections in 1990 but was never allowed to take power.


"We wish for her good health in the new year," said NLD spokesman
Myint Thein. "We also hope for cooperation from the authorities
for the benefit of the country in the new year."

