

Support for Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has topped 50
percent for the first time this year after a landmark visit by
China's premier, a survey said Monday.


Prime Minister Wen Jiabao last week became the first Chinese
leader to visit Japan in seven years, striking a conciliatory
tone on history issues that have long impeded relations between
the Asian powers.


The poll boost from Wen marks an ironic twist for Abe, who
throughout his career has been seen as a hardliner in relations
with Japan's Asian neighbours.


Abe's approval rate jumped to 50.4 percent from 43.2 percent in
March, according to the survey by the Nippon Television Network
Corp.


His disapproval rate fell by five points to 34.0 percent,
according to the poll of 1,089 eligible voters across Japan.


It was the first time in four months that Abe's support has
topped 50 percent. Abe faces a critical test in July with
elections for the upper house of parliament.


A separate survey by TV Tokyo, another private network, put Abe's
approval rating at 49 percent, up six percentage points from its
last poll in February.


While the two networks did not give any factors for the rise,
they conducted the polls just as Wen visited Japan for a summit
with Abe.


Putting aside confrontation, the leaders agreed to seek
reconciliation on the problems between China and Japan including
bitter memories of the past.


Abe took office in September last year, replacing veteran leader
Junichiro Koizumi who enjoyed strong domestic popularity
throughout his five-year tenure.


Within days of taking office, Abe visited China and South Korea,
which had refused summits with Koizumi due to his visits to a
controversial war shrine.


Abe, known for his conservative views on history issues, has
stayed silent on whether he will visit the Yasukuni shrine, which
venerates war dead and war criminals alike.


"Prime Minister Abe has so far scored points in diplomacy, in
sharp contrast to Koizumi," said Takehiko Yamamoto, professor of
international politics at Waseda University in Tokyo.


"Wen's visit to Japan last week was a big signal of improvement
in Japan-China relations and his tough stance on North Korea has
also firmed up support for him," Yamamoto said.


Abe built his career campaigning for a tough line on North Korea
over its abductions of Japanese civilians in the 1970s and 1980s.


Abe has refused to fund a aid-for-disarmament deal with North
Korea. Instead, his government last week extended sweeping
sanctions against the cash-strapped communist state.


However, Yamamoto said foreign affairs can only help the prime
minister to a limited extent.


Abe, who at 52 is Japan's youngest post-war premier, has watched
his popularity plummet since December amid public perception that
he lacks authority following repeated gaffes and scandals among
aides.


He faced particular criticism after the ruling party readmitted
rebels who were expelled in a reform drive by Koizumi.


"In order to fully recover his support, Abe needs to show results
on domestic issues such as measures to tackle disparity,"
Yamamoto said.


The main opposition Democratic Party has vowed to make the income
disparity between rich and poor its key issue in the July
elections.

