

Hibernian manager John Collins failed to face the Scottish press
after his side drew 0-0 with Dunfermline in the Scottish Cup
semi-final but his assistant says he is not about to crack after
an earlier player revolt.


The match ended a difficult week for the Easter Road club's boss,
which began with a group of first team players reportedly meeting
with club chairman Rod Petrie to complain about Collins' style of
management.


Hibs assistant manager Tommy Craig attended the press conference
after Sunday's semi-final at Hampden in his place but he says it
had nothing to do with the problems of the preceding week.


And although Craig admitted there are issues which need to be
resolved at Easter Road he believes Collins, a former player at
the club, will overcome these difficulties to become a Hibs hero.


The Hibs assistant manager said: "His wife and kids flew in late
last night, he hadn't seen them in a week and he is taking the
opportunity to catch up with them.


"It has been a tough week but we still have the best jobs in the
world. The tougher it gets the more you try to stand up but I
wouldn't change it for anything.


"Every day you go in issues will crop up and you deal with them.
I'm not saying there are no issues, as there is, but they will be
sorted out.


"All clubs have problems but most of them are dealt with in-house
and that is what we will do in future."


Craig predicts Collins will battle through the difficult period
to bring success to the club.


He said: "I have no doubt John will come through this and be a
success. He has only been in the job five months and he is a
methodical planner and a searcher of high standards that he set
himself as a player.


"John accepts that he will make mistakes, who doesn't, and he is
just like any young manager trying to make his way in the game."


Before the game the Hibs support in the 25,336 crowd had chanted
Collins' name and Craig admitted their reaction had cheered the
former Hibs, Celtic and Monaco player.


He said: "The fans were magnificent today. Before the match,
during the warm-up, John was delighted with the numbers who had
travelled through to support us and in the response they gave
him.


"They voiced their opinion of what had happened with their
applause for John and he was delighted."


Hibs and Dunfermline will now face each other again on Tuesday,
April 24 at Hampden.


Craig says the team will do all they can to defeat Stephen
Kenny's side and book a final place against Celtic.


He said: "For a club like Hibs not to have won the Scottish Cup
in 105 years is incredible and we would love to win it and give
the fans a chance to get their hands on it.


"We will go back to Easter Road and get the players training to
the same level as they have been this week and hopefully complete
the business a week on Tuesday.


"But we know it won't be easy as Stephen Kenny has galvanised
Dunfermline since he took over and they have surprised a lot of
people."

