

A Taliban suicide bomber blew himself up among a group of
policemen in northern Afghanistan Monday, killing nine officers,
the interior ministry and the militant movement said.


Another 25 policemen were wounded when the attacker, who was on
foot, struck at about 9:00 am (0430 GMT) in the relatively
peaceful northern city of Kunduz, ministry spokesman Zemarai
Bashary said.


"There was a suicide bombing in front of a police station in
Kunduz," Bashary told a news conference in Kabul.


"Unfortunately nine policemen were martyred and 25 others were
wounded. The bombing coincided with the exercise time of the
policemen," he added.


The bomber had spoken to his victims, who were performing morning
exercises in the street outside the police station, before he
detonated explosives strapped to his body, said Kunduz province
governor Mohammad Omer.


"A man wearing shalwar kameez (baggy trousers and shirt) and a
white hat came up and said a few words to the policemen. Seconds
later he exploded himself," Omer said.


He put the death toll at eight with 25 injured, adding that five
of them were in a coma.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi, calling AFP from an unknown
location, claimed responsibility for the attack on behalf of the
the Islamist militant group ousted by US-led forces in 2001.


"We carried out the attack. It was carried out by one of our
devoted Afghans," Ahmadi said. "They (police) suffered big
casualties."


The suicide attack was the third in three days in Afghanistan and
one of about 30 launched so far this year by the Taliban, which
had earlier pledged a wave of similar blasts.


On Sunday, four Afghan employees of a US-owned private security
firm were killed by a motorcycle-riding suicide bomber near a
base housing thousands of international troops in southern
Kandahar city, police said.


Eight people, mostly police, were killed in a blast in the
eastern city of Khost on Saturday.


Interior ministry spokesman Bashary condemned Monday's bombing in
Kunduz and warned that more such attacks would be likely in
coming months as the Taliban were being defeated in conventional
battle.


"The Taliban can no longer fight us on the battlefield. They can
only carry out such attacks," he said.


"We expect more of these attacks in future."


About 1,000 people, the majority of them insurgents, have been
killed this year in fighting and attacks in Afghanistan, mainly
in the south and east of the country.

