

Chinese regulators will limit the number of mainland companies
listing their shares solely in Hong Kong in a bid to encourage
enterprises to join Chinese bourses, a report said Monday.


Beijing has introduced an unofficial policy allowing Chinese
companies to list in the city only if they seek more than one
billion US dollars or plan a simultaneous listing on the
mainland, the Financial Times reported, citing unnamed investment
bankers and regulatory sources.


The report said the policy is designed to force a large majority
of listing candidates to become A-shares by joining the Shanghai
or Shenzhen bourses instead of in Hong Kong.


Policymakers believe that increasing the numbers of listed
A-share companies will help mop up excess liquidity and prevent a
stock market bubble in China, it said.


They are also concerned that Chinese investors cannot benefit
from the growth of some of the mainland fastest-growing companies
if they are allowed to list solely in Hong Kong.


Hundreds of Chinese companies have listed their shares in the
southern Chinese territory in recent years amid a long slump in
the mainland markets.


But a resurgence in mainland exchanges -- the benchmark index
climbed 130 percent last year -- fuelled by intense investor
demand has prompted a re-think in Beijing over which companies to
allow to list as H-shares in Hong Kong.


Citic Bank and China Pacific Insurance are among those planning
multi-billion dollar listings in Hong Kong and Shanghai this
year.


The CSRC declined to comment but one person close to the
regulator was quoted as saying: "It is not publicly announced
policy, but we are certainly encouraging Chinese companies to
list on the domestic market."


A spokeswoman for the Hong Kong stock exchange said it would not
comment on press reports but referred to recent remarks made by
CSRC which had denied such plans.


"CSRC had openly said that the Chinese regulators do encourage
mainland companies coming to list in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a
major listing destination for the mainland enterprises," she
added.


In January, PwC predicted that Chinese companies would raise 25
billion US dollars via IPOs on mainland exchanges this year, up
50 percent on 2006.


IPO proceeds raised in Hong Kong were expected to come in at 20
billion dollars, down 50 percent, the report said.

