

Pakistan's Azhar Mahmood seemed relieved to have left the tumult
of the West Indies behind him as he looked forward to playing
another season for Surrey in the English County Championship,
which gets underway on Wednesday.


After his country's humiliating early exit from the World Cup and
the tragedy of coach Bob Woolmer's murder, Mahmoud was eager to
get back to county cricket.


The all-rounder played an important part in the southern county
winning the Division 2 title last summer -- and with it promotion
back to the top division after a one-year absence -- and before
the start of his sixth consecutive season at The Oval in south
London he speaks with cautious optimism about trying to take the
famous club back to the pinnacle of the English domestic game.


"I'm very positive - I love playing cricket and Surrey is like my
second home," Azhar told AFP. "We are now playing in the first
division again and with our new stand here at The Oval and young
players like Neil Saker, James Benning and Jade Dernbach coming
through the ranks, we believe we can win things."


The 32-year-old from Rawalpindi believes this fresh blood at the
club is central to their ambitions although he acknowledges
replacing the respected players who have left the club over the
past few years will take time.


"Alec Stewart, Ben and Adam Hollioake and Graham Thorpe are not
here anymore," Azhar says.


"We have young guys coming up to fill their places but no one can
immediately become a great bowler or batsman.


"Everyone has to have time -- they have been at Surrey for the
last two or three years so hopefully they will now do well for
Surrey and eventually play for England."


The Brown Caps will be hoping for another season of blistering
run-scoring from evergreen batsman Mark Ramprakash, who scored
well over 2,000 runs last season at an average of over 100 and
was recently named one on Wisden's five cricketers of the year.


Azhar is one of three overseas players who are expected to
represent Surrey this summer, the others being Western Australian
fast bowlers Matthew Nicholson and Steve Magoffin, and the
Pakistani focuses on other foreign imports while assessing
Surrey's main rivals for the Championship pennant.


"Sussex have an excellent side with Mushtaq Ahmed and Rana Naved-
ul-Hasan," Azhar said, referring to the southern county's lethal
pair of Pakistani bowlers whose wickets helped the county become
champions last year.


"Kent have Yasir Arafat who plays for Pakistan and Andrew Hall,
who plays for South Africa, while Lancashire and Hampshire are
also strong."


Surrey open their campaign against visitors Yorkshire, and Azhar
does not underestimate them either with his esteemed compatriot
Younis Khan in their ranks along with former England fast bowler
Darren Gough, who has returned to his former club as captain
after a three-year stint at Essex.


Lancashire's threat will be spearheaded by the return of magical
Sri Lankan off- spinner Muttiah Muralitharan to their ranks while
the Old Trafford-based club will also be able to draw on the
powerful batting talents of Australia batsmen Brad Hodge.


The Red Rose county will, however, have to deal without their
battery of England fast bowlers Andrew Flintoff, James Anderson
and Sajid Mahmood who will spend large swathes of the summer
months competing for England in Test series against the West
Indies and India.


Hampshire cannot be discounted either, captained as they will be
led by the legendary Shane Warne who will have fellow Ashes hero
Stuart Clark to throw the new ball to, while West Midlands side
Warwickshire, could provide a challenge with the experienced
Zimbabwean seamer Heath Streak at the helm along with the batting
of Sri Lanka wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara.


In Division 2, former Australian opening batsmen Justin Langer
will attempt to lead a revival at Somerset, who finished bottom
last season, and will look to beefy opener Marcus Trescothick to
overcome a stress-related illness which has had a damaging effect
on his international career over the last 12 months.


While the County Championship begins on Wednesday, cricket fans
across the country also look to the Friends Provident Trophy, a
four-month long, 50-over a side competition starting on April 22,
for more explosive entertainment, while the fireworks of Twenty20
cricket are set to return on June 22 and a two-month long Pro40
one-day competition kicks off on July 13.

