

Kobe Bryant's latest 50-point outburst saw the Los Angeles Lakers
secure a National Basketball Association playoff berth Sunday,
thanks to a 109-98 victory over Seattle.


Bryant registered his 10th game of the season with at least 50
points. Not all of those explosive performances have resulted in
Lakers victories.


But on Sunday, Bryant was determined to make sure that the
slumping Lakers would play beyond the regular season.


The superstar guard connected on 18-of-25 shots, including 3-of-6
from 3-point range, and made 11-of-13 free throws en route to
posting his 21st career 50-point outburst.


The Lakers, who improved to 41-40, had lost eight of their last
10 games entering the contest.


The looked as if they would let this one slip away after having a
19-point lead cut to one in the fourth quarter.


The SuperSonics made things interesting when Mike Wilks scored on
a driving layup over Smush Parker to close within 87-86 with 7:58
remaining.


However, Bryant, the reigning NBA scoring champion, netted eight
points during an impressive 14-3 surge, capped by Lamar Odom's
one-handed jam from Luke Walton at the 2:45 mark to create a
101-89 cushion.


In the third quarter, Bryant picked up his 13th technical of the
season - just three shy of receiving an automatic one-game
suspension.


The Lakers' Los Angeles rivals the Clippers saw their playoff
hopes dimmed as they fell 105-100 to Sacramento.


Meanwhile the Golden State Warriors continued their playff push
with a 121-108 victory over Minnesota.


Richardson collected 32 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists and
Al Harrington added 18 points for the Warriors, who are now one-
half game behind the Lakers and occupying the eighth and final
playoff spot - one game ahead of the ninth- place Clippers.


"We played well tonight and these games aren't always the easiest
to coach," Warriors coach Don Nelson said. "It was a great win
for us because the Clippers lost. We haven't had the luxury of
controlling our own destiny in awhile and that's why we fought so
hard and have the record that we do down the stretch.


"I am still worried about our last two games because we have to
play the best team in basketball and then go on the road on a
back-to-back, and we haven't done well in those situations."

