

The number of people displaced within their own countries by
conflicts doubled last year, pushing the global total to 24.5
million, an international monitoring centre said Monday.


Almost half of the four million people forced to flee their homes
in 2006 were in Iraq or due to the conflict between Israel and
the Lebanese-based Shiite group Hezbollah, the Norwegian Refugee
Council said.


Often civilians were deliberately forced to flee by government
forces or rebel groups, it added.


"Some 4.0 million people were internally displaced during 2006 as
a result of armed conflict, more than twice as many as in
previous years," said Tomas Colin Archer, secretary general of
the Norwegian Refugee Council.


"With the proliferation of armed groups in many conflicts, the
displacement of civilians is often not a mere by-product of war,
but a deliberate strategy used by rebels and government forces
alike," he warned.


Some 3.6 million people were able to go back home, but the total
by December had risen to 24.5 million compared to 23.7 million a
year earlier, the annual report by the Council's Geneva-based
Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre said.


Many millions more worldwide remain displaced as a result of
natural disasters, it underlined.


Almost half of those freshly displaced by conflicts in 2006 were
forced to flee in Iraq and during the fighting between Israel and
the Lebanese-based Shiite group Hezbollah, the report said.


While most of the Lebanese and Israelis were able to return to
their homes after a ceasefire in August, the report underlined
that Iraqis were continuing to flee their homes under the
onslaught of sectarian violence and growing hardship.


"The massive scale of forced displacement in recent months adds
to the dramatic worsening of the humanitarian situation in Iraq,"
Archer said.


He warned that it could broaden the divide between religious
communities in Iraq and redraw the country's ethnic and religious
map.


Hundreds of thousands of civilians were also forced to flee in
Sudan's strife- torn region of Darfur (450,000), neighbouring
Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo (500,000), Colombia
(200,000) and in Sri Lanka.


The refugee council warned that internally displaced people were
often forgotten compared to their compatriots who sought refuge
in foreign countries, even though their numbers are twice as
large as those of refugees.


While the report criticised governments for failing to protect
those who fled, it underlined that in several instances they were
deliberately forcing their own citizens out of their homes.


Sudan accounts for about one-fifth of the world's displaced
poulation, followed by Colombia (3.8 million) and Iraq.


Apart from hundreds of thousands of people in Lebanon, other
large-scale returns were reported during 2006 in South Sudan
(800,000), the Democratic Republic of Congo (500,000), eastern
Uganda (300,000) and Nepal.

