

Global finance chiefs headed home Sunday after a three-day
meeting on financial and development questions held amid intense
speculation that World Bank head Paul Wolfowitz would be brought
down by a personnel scandal.


But at a tense and eagerly-awaited news conference at the end of
the parley, Wolfowitz gave no sign he would bow to demands that
he resign and vowed to carry on with what he called his
"important work."


His future is now in the hands of the bank's executive board,
which will decide what to do about revelations he helped arrange
a promotion for his girlfriend, a former bank press officer.


"We had a very excellent series of meetings," Wolfowitz said, as
he sought to re-focus attention on African anti-poverty
initiatives and other policy matters debated over the weekend by
officials from the bank, the International Monetary Fund and the
Group of Seven industrialized powers.


He called particular attention to the failure of rich countries
to live up to pledges made at a Group of Eight summit in 2005 and
in other settings to increase financial assistance to Africa.


"The donors are unfortunately ... in danger of not fulfilling
their promises, promises to increase their aid to Africa and to
double aid to Africa," he said after a meeting of the bank's
policymaking Development Committee.


In addition to development aid, ministers and central bank
governors gave much thought to currency volatility, trade
liberalization, institutional reform and hedge-fund regulation.


Group of Seven ministers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States in a statement Friday night
offered softly-worded commentary on currency volatility but
issued a strong call for a global accord to boost free trade, an
appeal echoed by IMF policymakers on Saturday.


The G7 ministers backed a contested reform drive under way at the
IMF and pledged to monitor developments in speculative hedge
funds.


But they notably dropped a reference, contained in an earlier
statement, to the need for "vigilance" with regard to hedge
funds, perhaps reflecting US and British insistence that tighter
government regulation is not needed.


The G7 in addition avoided specific mention of the sliding
Japanese yen, a trend that has unsettled eurozone officials who
fear it will erode their export earnings and dampen growth.


The ministers instead reiterated calls on China to allow the yuan
to appreciate more rapidly.


Analysts said afterwards that so bland a statement was unlikely
to have any noticeable effect on currency markets when trading
resumed Monday.


The United States does not share European anxiety over the
sliding yen, which has fallen 13.5 percent against the euro since
May 2006 compared with 9.0 percent against the dollar, and
insists that an undervalued Chinese yuan is the principal threat
to currency stability.


Washington has long pressed Beijing to accord greater flexibility
to the yuan, arguing that its weakness gives China an unfair
advantage on export markets while making Chinese products more
attractive in the United States.


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, addressing a meeting
Saturday of the IMF's policymaking body, said it was now the
responsibility of the Fund to take a more muscular approach to
currency volatility.


"For us, reform of the IMF's foreign exchange surveillance is the
linchpin on which other reforms depend, and we look forward to
action in this important area very soon," he said.


The US insistence on vigorous IMF action appeared to reflect Bush
administration frustration with what it sees as China's
reluctance to allow greater flexibility for the yuan.


But in the end the IMF said it preferred a flexible and non-
coercive approach to monitoring currency rate regimes.


IMF planners also tried to breathe new life into reform efforts
at their 62 -year-old institution, notably through a campaign to
accord emerging-market and poor countries a greater voice in the
Fund's operations.


But the effort, launched in Singapore last September, has drawn
resistance from some richer members who could see their influence
diminished.


"Differences in members' views still remain," Japanese Finance
Minister Koji Omi said.

