

Radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's supporters were to pull out of
Iraq's beleaguered coalition government Monday, upping the
political stakes after a weekend of savage sectarian violence.


The hardline Shiite preacher -- who has not been seen in public
for months -- was angered last week when protests failed to
persuade Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki to set a date for the
withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.


Sadr's six ministers and 32 lawmakers form the biggest single
bloc in Maliki's fragmenting coalition, but the prime minister
would be able to cling to power if he keeps the support of
smaller Shiite and Kurdish groups.


Members of the movement said a formal announcement would be made
later Monday, after Sadrist lawmaker Saleh Hassan Issa al-Igaili
told AFP on Sunday that the withdrawal was imminent.


There was also tension in the southern city of Basra, where there
have been calls from Sadr supporters for a protest against the
provincial governor and warnings from local leaders that this
could trigger violence.


Meanwhile, Iraq continues to be wracked by a bombing campaign
mounted by Sunni insurgents in order to undermine a two-month-old
joint US and Iraqi security operation designed to cement Maliki's
fragile authority.


If Sadr's movement, which enjoys widespread support among Shiites
living in Baghdad and Iraq's poor and unruly southern cities,
makes good its threat it will herald a new power-struggle within
Iraq's Shiite majority.


In recent months there have already been clashes between fighters
from Sadr's Mahdi Army militia and Shiite-led security forces,
while US forces have rounded up many militia leaders in raids
around the country.


The young cleric -- he is thought to be in his early thirties --
is the wild card in Iraqi politics, with more power to disrupt
than to encourage the country's small, faltering steps towards
national reconciliation.


He has not been seen in public since October last year, and US
commanders believe he is in hiding in Iran, a claim denied by his
supporters.


On April 9, the fourth anniversary of the US capture of Baghdad,
he called mass demonstrations in the Shiite holy city of Najaf to
demand a timetable for American troop withdrawal, an idea quickly
rejected by Maliki.


Despite this apparent dispute between the former allies -- Sadr's
votes ensured Maliki's election -- some analysts said the prime
minister could use the defection to strengthen his own position.


Tareq Harb, a political analyst, said Sadr will not call a
confidence vote to unseat Maliki while the prime minister will
use the threat of a radical opposition to extract more aid from
the United States.


"He will use this to exert pressure on the Americans to prepare
for their withdrawal and intensify the training of the Iraqi
troops," he told AFP.


In August 2004, US forces fought bloody street battles in order
to defeat a uprising by Sadr's Mahdi Army, but since then he has
prefered to be be seen as part of Iraq's troubled political
process.


The International Crisis Group's Iraq expert Joost Hiltermann
warned that Sadr's movement remains unpredictable, but said that
the Shiite firebrand was gambling on being able to wait out his
US foes.


"Sadr does not want to restart fight with the Americans as there
is a feeling that they will go away next year. He wants to wait
it out. But he has to consolidate himself," Hiltermann told AFP.


"This is an internal debate within the Sadr movement. Sadr wants
to consolidate his ranks. His decisions are being challenged by
his own people.


"Sadr continues to be strong. He is the only popular movement in
Iraq. He is going through difficult times as he has a loosely
managed organisation which is not disciplined," he added.


Sadr's decision to support Maliki's security plan, albeit while
opposing US involvement, and his disappearance may have weakened
him in the eyes of his more hardline supporters, Hiltermann said.


That security plan suffered several more setbacks over the
weekend, when a series of car bomb attacks on Shiite areas
claimed dozens of lives.

