

Pope Benedict XVI quietly turned 80 on Monday -- which for the
Vatican staff meant a day off and a bonus of 500 euros (675
dollars) -- as tributes poured in from around the world.


The German pontiff has little on his official agenda besides a
luncheon with the college of cardinals and a classical music
concert in his honour to be attended by the 72-year-old actress
Sofia Loren.


He marked the occasion, along with the second anniversary of his
election as pope, which falls on Thursday, with an open-air mass
on Sunday attended by some 50,000 pilgrims.


Among many tributes, Russian Orthodox Patriarch Alessio II
praised Benedict on Monday as "a sincerely and deeply devout
Christian who speaks from the heart."


Italian President Giorgio Napolitano addressed birthday greetings
on behalf of the Italian nation, "whose deep and ancient ties
with the Holy See are nourished by the shared values of peace and
the promotion of human dignity."


Also on Monday, the pope's new book, "Jesus of Nazareth", went on
sale in Italy, Germany and Poland.


Billed as his answer to popular publications such as Dan Brown's
best-selling "The Da Vinci Code," the book attempts to reconcile
the historical figure of Jesus with that of the Gospels.


Benedict's style has been in marked contrast to that of his
charismatic predecessor John Paul II, whose long pontificate was
far more political as well as more activist, according to the
current pope's critics.


At his birthday mass, the former Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger spoke
of "darkness" threatening the world in the form of war,
oppression and hate, saying that only the grace of God could
defeat evil.


Observers have stressed the continuity of outlook, if not of
action, between the two conservative popes. Some prelates
however, speaking on condition of anonymity, say they are
becoming impatient with Benedict's comparative lethargy.


The respected theologian has shaped his public dialogue
increasingly around spiritual and moral questions, rarely
venturing into diplomatic territory.


He is also seen as focussing excessively on the European Church.


Three weeks ago, as the European Union marked its 50th
anniversary, Benedict warned that Europe's revival could be
threatened if it forgets its Christian roots and embraces a
"peculiar form of apostasy."


Benedict, who has gained a reputation as a rigid guardian of the
faith, said Christian values "that represent the soul of the
continent must remain" part of Europe.


One Vatican diplomat said the speech, particularly the use of the
word "apostasy," was disturbing, "building a pessimistic view of
the world."


As head of the Vatican's doctrinal enforcement body under John
Paul II, the then cardinal Ratzinger was the force behind many of
the Polish-born pope's initiatives on ethical issues.


As pope, Benedict has spoken out ever more frequently on
abortion, the family, homosexuality, the status of the embryo and
euthanasia. This has drawn the battle lines between the Church
and civil societies, at least in Europe and other developed
regions.


Vatican correspondent Sandro Magister, citing a recent poll, says
Benedict has made some inroads in predominantly Catholic Italy
about rights for gay couples. "Benedict XVI uses Italy as the
yeast for the rest of the Church," he said.


With an academic background in European philosophy, Benedict has
shown little interest in other continents, unlike his
predecessor. John Paul II was the widest-travelled pope in the
history of the Roman Catholic Church and had a keen eye on
geopolitics.


The pope is planning a trip to Brazil next month, his first to
the Americas, to meet with Latin American and Caribbean bishops.
His only other trip outside Europe so far has been to Turkey, the
crossroads between Europe and Asia.


Benedict, who was born in the Bavarian town of Marktl am Inn on
April 16, 1927, was ordained priest in 1951.


He spent much of his early career as a theology professor and
became archbishop of Munich in March 1977, later moving to the
Vatican.


He is said to speak 10 languages, although the Italian press has
commented on his German accent, and is an accomplished pianist.

