

Australian exploration company Summit Resources Monday
recommended that shareholders accept a revised billion US dollar
takeover offer from uranium miner Paladin Resources.


Summit last month advised shareholders to reject Paladin's
initial 790 million US dollar scrip offer from Paladin and formed
a strategic alliance with French nuclear group Areva to block the
takeover.


Paladin then submitted an increased offer of one Paladin share
for every 1.67 Summit shares, valuing the company at 6.22
Australian dollars per share or 1.23 billion (1.01 billion US).


Summit chief executive Allan Eggers said the board undertook a
detailed analysis of the potential future risks and rewards for
Summit shareholders of staying independent compared to the
benefits of being part of a much bigger company with existing
production and growth prospects.


He said this included Paladin's offer enabling Summit
shareholders to retain exposure to the Mount Isa Uranium Project
(IUJV) through ownership of Paladin shares.


Summit is the manager and holder of a 50 percent interest in the
IUJV, with Paladin holding the other 50 percent interest which
was under contention.


"I remain convinced that the Mount Isa project will prove to be
world class and that it will produce not one, but several, world
class metal deposits," Eggers said.


He noted the board also considered the shorter term risk that
there might not be a change to the Australian Labor Party's
policy which restricts uranium mining. Labor heads all state
governments.


Only BHP Billiton's Olympic Dam project in South Australia and
Rio Tinto's listed uranium miner, Energy Resources of Australia
Ltd's Ranger mine in Australia's Northern Territory are currently
commercially operational.


Eggers noted the board previously concluded that the benefits of
the Areva transaction outweighed the benefits of accepting
Paladin's first offer.


Areva planned to purchase 19.5 million Summit shares at 6.20
dollars per share, representing a 9.0 percent shareholding and a
cash injection of 121.1 million dollars into the Australian
company.


It would have had an option of increasing its stake in Summit to
18 percent at a price of 7.20 dollars per share and a further
171.5 million dollars.


In conjunction with the second share subscription, Areva was to
be appointed to market two-thirds of Summit's share of potential
uranium production from its Australian projects, with Summit
retaining the right to market the remaining production.


"The Board now believes that the benefits of accepting Paladin's
higher offer when combined with the risks of rejecting it support
our recommendation that you accept Paladin's higher offer,"
Eggers said.

