

British Defence Secretary Des Browne faces a grilling before MPs
on Monday, not just over the country's military operations in
Iraq and Afghanistan, but over his controversial decision to let
sailors captured by Iran sell their stories to the press.


Browne has taken responsibility for the decision to let the 15
sailors seized by Iran last month be financially compensated by
media organisations for interviews they gave, one Prime Minister
Tony Blair has said was not a good idea.


The leader of the main opposition Conservative Party David
Cameron said on Sunday that Browne would have to pass two "tests"
before parliament or risk losing his post.


In Cameron's view, Browne would first need to give a full
explanation of how the mistake was made, with the second test
being, "does he retain the confidence of the armed services?"


Speaking to the BBC, Cameron said: "If he can pass those two
tests, then he keeps his job. If he fails, then I think he has to
go."


Iran captured 15 sailors and marines in the northern Gulf on
March 23 and broadcast some of them making "confessions" that
they were illegally in Iranian waters before freeing them nearly
two weeks later as an Easter "gift."


After their release, seven gave a public press conference, but
two of them sold their stories to the media.


The only woman detainee, Faye Turney, reportedly struck a 100,000
pound (147,000 euros, 196,000 dollars) deal with a newspaper and
a broadcaster.


Relatives of British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and
military figures all said the decision by some of the 15 to sell
their stories tarnished the image of the armed forces.


Browne's cabinet colleague John Reid, the home secretary
(interior minister) and Browne's predecessor in the defence
ministry, backed the embattled minister.


"It's always easy with this when we're not in charge and with
hindsight," Reid told Sky News on Sunday.


"I think Des Browne has held his hands up. He's had the courage
and character to say this was a mistake."


"He's coming to Parliament the way you should do. He's shown
courage and character and I think Parliament will accept that
that is the way to address this."

