

Jose Mourinho believes Chelsea and Manchester United have earned
the right to contest the season's major prizes between themselves
over what could be an unprecedented three-match finale to the
campaign.


Speaking after his side had booked an FA Cup final date with
United with an extra-time win over Blackburn, the Chelsea boss
admitted he would relish the prospect of facing Sir Alex
Ferguson's side three times in the space of 15 days next month.


Chelsea face United at Stamford Bridge on May 8th in a match that
could be decisive in the Premiership title battle, which United
currently lead by three points.


The first Cup final at the new Wembley is on May 19 and the two
clubs could meet again four days later in the Champions League
final in Athens.


For that to happen, United must overcome AC Milan while Chelsea
have to get the better of Liverpool in their respective semi-
finals.


"At the end of the season people will qualify the top teams in
Europe in relation to the trophies you win," Mourinho said.


"If Milan or Liverpool win the Champions League, maybe people
will look at them as the top team, but the reality is that what
Man United and Chelsea are doing this season is unbelievable.


"I just hope the match at Stamford Bridge is also a final. I just
hope we can keep on the run we are in now and play that game with
a chance to be champion."


Mourinho's chance to get his hands on the only piece of English
silverware to have eluded him was secured by Michael Ballack,
whose extra-time winner finally settled a semi-final Blackburn
might easily have won in the closing stages of regulation time
after Jason Roberts had cancelled out Frank Lampard's opener for
Chelsea.


Mourinho acknowledged there would have been no way back for his
side if Morten Gamst Pedersen had been able to convert a glorious
late chance to put Blackburn in front and he paid tribute to the
contribution of Mark Hughes's side to an encounter that he
described as "incredible propoganda for English football."


He added: "When I saw the game going to the end, I was afraid. I
was not worried about extra time but if they scored then,
probably it was all over."


Hughes acknowledged that Pedersen's miss with a free header from
barely six yards out had been perhaps the decisive moment in the
match.


"Everyone of my players put in a performance they can be proud
of," he said. "They have run a top quality Chelsea side very
close and I doubt if they have had a harder game all season.


"Extra time came too soon for us. Another ten minutes with the
momentum we had I think we would have won it. We had a fantastic
chance with Morten and, on on another day he is the guy you want
to be faced with a header in the middle of the goal to score. But
it was not to be."


Mourinho must now turn his attention to Wednesday's Premiership
meeting with West Ham, although the Champions League semi-final
with Liverpool -- and the prospect of revenge for a controversial
defeat by Rafael Benitez's men at the same stage two years ago --
is clearly beginning to loom large in his thoughts.


Having dispatched one of his assistants to watch Liverpool's
goalless draw with Manchester City on Saturday, Mourinho revealed
that his scout had left after an hour.


"He was saying it was like a testimonial," he said. "Liverpool
are preparing for the Champions League semi-final, we are
preparing for a game in two days, a game we have to win.


"But this is what we fight for, to be in this position so we
cannot complain about it."


Ballack may have claimed the winner at Old Trafford on Sunday,
but Chelsea had more reason to be grateful for a man-of-the-match
performance by goalkeeper Peter Cech, who only six months ago
underwent surgery on a fractured skull.


"He is the best in the world, I think everybody knows that,"
Mourinho said.


"When we saw him in the hospital without hair and that big scar
and we saw him in hospital, there were a lot of question marks,
so for him to come back to this level is just incredible."

