

Strict security arrangements will be in place when Bollywood
beauty Aishwarya Rai marries her actor boyfriend Abhishek
Bachchan in a quiet but high-profile wedding this week, sources
said Monday.


The three-day wedding ceremonies are due to begin on Wednesday at
the Bachchan residence in Mumbai, the financial and entertainment
hub of India.


Fire extinguishers will be on hand in case crazed fans of Rai and
Bachchan set themselves on fire in disappointment or try to
perform Hindu fire ceremonies to break the marriage, the Mumbai
Mirror tabloid reported.


About 500 police, some with metal detectors, would also be in
place, the daily reported.


Four-page wedding invitations -- with the couple's initials "AA"
embossed on the cover and signed by the Bachchan family and the
stars -- have been sent out to select friends.


Superstars Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan and Rai's former boyfriend
Salman Khan have not been invited to the low-key event, which
will be attended mainly by close friends of the Bachchans,
Bollywood's first family.


Abhishek, 31, is the son of actress Jaya Bachchan and screen
legend Amitabh Bachchan. Among those invited are director Yash
Chopra, filmmaker Karan Johar, industrialist Anil Ambani and
influential politician friends of the Bachchan family.


"I have not been invited to the wedding. Regardless, I wish the
couple best," Shah Rukh Khan told Mumbai tabloid Mid-day.


"The Bachchans have asked us to keep this wedding a private issue
and therefore we are maintaining silence," said actor Suniel
Shetty, who has been invited to the exclusive function.


Media reports said that jewellery for the 33-year-old Rai had
been specially brought from eastern Kolkata city, while henna
used to decorate the bride's hands came from Rajasthan state. The
bride will also receive famed silk saris from the city of
Varanasi, in northern Uttar Pradesh state.


The ceremonies will begin with the traditional sangeet, or music
ceremony -- during which relatives of the couple sing and dance
-- at the Bachchan home.


The henna ceremony -- during which the bride's hands are painted
-- will be held at Rai's house, called La Mer (French for The
Sea), on Thursday.


After the main wedding ceremony on Friday, Rai will take part in
another tradition in which the bride bids an emotional farewell
to her parents.


The pair -- dubbed "Abhiash" by local media in a melding of their
two names after the fashion of "Brangelina" for Brad Pitt and
Angelina Jolie -- were engaged in January, capping months of
media speculation about their relationship.


They have scored two hits in recent months, with their latest
film "Guru" collecting 850 million rupees (19.7 million dollars)
at the box office in January.


Last year, "Dhoom 2" (Have a Blast II) was the highest grossing
film in India with a collection of 1.65 billion rupees (38
million dollars) in the last quarter of the year.


The expected sober tone of the wedding will contrast with the
opulent marriage ceremony of British model Elizabeth Hurley and
her businessman husband Arun Nayar in India earlier this month.

