

Days after it emerged that Prince William had split with his
long-time girlfriend Kate Middleton, the British press on Monday
was rife with stories of how the pair broke up.


Various newspapers reported that multiple social faux pas
committed by Middleton's mother did nothing to endear her to
William's friends and family, while one tabloid said the pair
decided to end their relationship last month while in the Swiss
Alps on a skiing trip.


Multiple papers said that Carole Middleton, Kate's mother, did
not make a positive impression on William's inner circle, who did
not believe her to be sufficiently upper class -- Carole and her
husband Michael are self-made millionaires after starting a
children's party paraphernalia business.


The Daily Telegraph reported that Carole Middleton's use of the
word "toilet" rather than "lavatory", and use of the phrase
"pleased to meet you" rather than "how do you do?" rubbed
William's associates the wrong way.


According to the paper, they would derisively whisper "doors to
manual" when Kate Middleton, 25, arrived, a veiled jibe at her
mother being a former airline stewardess.


Meanwhile, several newspapers also reported that, contrary to
what had been previously said in the British press, the fate of
William's relationship with Middleton was not decided at a
gathering of "The Firm" -- the mafia-style nickname for the
senior royals.


An unidentified royal insider told the Daily Mirror tabloid that
"anyone who knows William knows he's a strong-minded character
who's quite capable of making up his own mind."


Various newspapers added that army officer William, 24, told his
father, Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, that Middleton, a
clothes buyer for a fashion firm, wanted more from their
relationship but he did not want to commit.


Things reportedly came to a head three weeks ago after pictures
appeared of a drunken William partying with army colleagues and
several women in a nightclub.


According to The Sun, Middleton and William, second in line to
the throne, are thought to have decided to split while at an
exclusive resort in Zermatt, Switzerland, last month, citing an
unnamed source close to the couple.


"No one knows exactly what was said between them, but William and
Kate talked for hours about their future," the source told the
tabloid.


"It is fair to say each of them wanted different things ...
William feels too young and doesn't want to give up the freedom
that life in the Army allows."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said most of the stories
written about the demise of their four-year relationship would be
"complete nonsense," as British newspapers picked over the bones
of their break-up.


"I think, in respect of Prince William, they are a young couple.
We have had the announcement, fine," Blair told BBC television --
though Clarence House, the royal residence which handles the
prince's affairs, has refused to confirm or deny the break-up.


"I think, now it has been announced, they should be allowed to
get on with their lives."


British bookmakers were taking bets over the weekend on who
William will marry, with Britney Spears and Kylie Minogue among
the front runners.


Many royal watchers were certain that the pair would wed, and
British retailer Woolworths had 25,000 commemorative mugs, 15,000
tea towels, 12,000 plates and 8,000 mouse mats bearing pictures
of William and Middleton, ready to go on sale within 48 hours of
an engagement announcement.

