

A senior official from China's central bank has rejected calls
from the International Monetary Fund for faster progress towards
a more flexibile currency regime, state media said Monday.


"Biased advice would damage the fund's role in safeguarding
global economic and financial stability," said Hu Xiaolian,
deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, according to the
China Daily.


"The fund ... should respect its member countries' core interests
and actual economic fundamentals," Hu was quoted as saying at the
meetings of the IMF and the World Bank in Washington at the
weekend.


Officials and economists at the IMF, which has a mandate to give
advice to member countries, said Beijing should pursue a more
flexible exchange rate, for the sake of both the Chinese economy
and a more balanced global economy.


However, Hu said the yuan's role in rectifying global economic
imbalances should not be exaggerated, adding that more attention
should be paid to growing protectionism so as to safeguard the
health of the world economy.


China's major trading partners, led by the United States, have
persistently complained that the yuan has been significantly
undervalued, giving Chinese exporters an unfair competitive edge
of lower prices.


Trade frictions are rising as the United States, with a 223
-billion-dollar trade deficit with China in 2006, last week
formally lodged two complaints on copyright abuses in China and
market access to the World Trade Organisation.


Last month, Washington decided to impose penalty tariffs on
Chinese paper exporters, reversing a 23-year-old US policy of not
applying duties to subsidised goods from economies such as
China's which are designated as non- market.


In July 2005, China delinked the yuan from the dollar, revalued
it by 2.1 percent and put it into a currency basket system, with
a trading limit of only 0.3 percent either side of the reference
rate against the US unit each day.


Since then the yuan has risen by about seven percent, including
the initial 2.1 percent rise.

