

Thousands of people, many of them Israeli teenagers, gathered in
Poland Monday for an annual Holocaust memorial march at the Nazi
German death camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau, the enduring symbol of
Hitler's "Final Solution."


The March of Living -- which winds from the brick barracks of
Auschwitz to the killing fields of Birkenau -- is a tribute to
the estimated six million Jews who died at the hands of the Nazis
during World War II.


Israel authorities said their country would be represented by
Rafi Eitan, a minister and former Mossad agent who in 1960 helped
to capture Nazi fugitive Adolf Eichmann, considered to be one of
the main architects of the campaign to exterminate the Jews.


Every year, marchers walk three kilometres (two miles) from the
infamous Auschwitz gateway with its chillingly-false "Arbeit
macht Frei" (Work Brings Freedom) sign to the ruins of the gas
chambers and crematoria of Birkenau, where they hold a memorial
service.


The aim, organisers say, is not only to mourn for those who were
massacred but also to "bear witness to the undying spirit of the
Jewish people."


The march marks "Yom Hashoah" or Holocaust Remembrance Day, which
began in Israel at sunset on Sunday.


Sunday evening, some 3,000 Jewish youths accompanied by Israel's
Education Minister Yuli Tamir, gathered at the camp museum and
recited kaddish, the Jewish prayer of mourning, on the spot where
the gas chambers stood.


The March of the Living started in 1988 as part of efforts to
fight those who, four decades after the end of the war, denied
the existence of the Nazi killing machine.


It was originally held every two years, and open only to Jews.


It has been an annual event since 1995, and people of all faiths
were first invited to take part in the 1990s.


The Nazis set up the Auschwitz camp mostly for members of the
Polish resistance, nine months after invading Poland in 1939.


It was housed in what had been a Polish army barracks on the edge
of the southern Polish town of Oswiecim -- named Auschwitz in
German.


In 1941 the Nazis began constructing a vast complex of huts, gas
chambers and crematoria on the site of the village of Brzezinka,
or Birkenau.


The deadly annex was fully operational by 1943.


Some 1.1 million people died at the death camp between 1940 and
1945 -- one million of them Jews from Poland and elsewhere in
Nazi-occupied Europe -- some by overwork, starvation and disease,
but most in the gas chambers.


Also among the victims of the camp were 85,000 non-Jewish Poles,
15,000 Soviet prisoners of war, 20,000 gypsies and 12,000 non-
Jewish citizens of other countries, including resistance
fighters.


Auschwitz-Birkenau was the largest camp in a vast Nazi network
stretching across a swathe of occupied Europe.

