

Almost 70 percent of North Korean defectors in South Korea are
out of work while those with jobs earn less than half of the
minimum wage, a university study showed Monday.


The survey of 451 North Korean defectors conducted between last
August and September showed 306 or 67 percent were unemployed.
Those with jobs earned an average hourly wage of only 1,560 won
(1.68 dollars) compared to the government- set minimum wage of
3,480.


The study by Park Sang-In of Seoul National University showed
more than 60 percent of defectors find jobs through private
placement firms or acquaintances, compared to around 16 who used
government employment offices.


"(A large number of) North Korean defectors appeared to be losing
interest in finding jobs due to repeated failure to find
employment," Park was quoted by Yonhap news agency as saying.


More than 10,000 North Koreans have defected to the South since
the end of 1950-53 Korean War.


In February the government announced a new grants policy
rewarding those who find jobs but reducing payments to new
arrivals.


The lump sum paid to a new arrival was cut to six million won
(6,458 dollars) from 10 million won.


However the ministry increased cash incentives for refugees who
have found jobs. It said it would pay a total of 15 million won,
up from the previous nine million, over a three-year period once
the workers have been registered on an payroll for one year.


An additional 13 million won is available to each household for
housing.


North Koreans who flee the impoverished hardline communist nation
often face severe problems adjusting to life in the world's 11th
largest capitalist economy, whose per capita GDP is almost 20
times that of the North.


Most defectors are unskilled or semi-skilled workers or farmers
and face problems finding jobs they are able to do. Some say they
face discrimination by employers.


The government runs a training centre where defectors receive
classes in cultural studies and skills-related training. They are
also taught basic skills such as how to ride the subway, use a
mobile phone and buy goods in a supermarket.

