

It may be the center of the capitalist universe, but New York
still managed to rally hundreds of revolutionaries, students and
the plain curious for its first anarchist bookfair at the
weekend.


Not exactly known for its left-wing political agitation, the city
could last claim to have an organized anarchist network a century
or so ago, but recently- formed groups are increasingly flying
the anarchist flag here.


And while the prospect of barricades on Broadway and violent
revolution appear remote, the anarchist movement appears to be
attracting a broad spectrum of counter-cultural followers
disillusioned with the state of US politics.


With titles on offer ranging from "Organic Market Gardening" and
"Crimethink for Beginners" to the enigmatic "Bicycling Science"
and "Animal Rights and Pornography," Saturday's bookfair
reflected some pretty diverse manifestos.


Organizers said they were happy to welcome the "anarcho-curious"
as well as veteran radicals to the Greenwich Village event in
downtown Manhattan.


"New York has not had any type of organized anarchist group or
collective city- wide group specifically for the purpose of
promoting anarchism for a long time," explained James Nova, from
the New York Metro Alliance of Anarchists.


"But there are tens of thousands, at least, of anarchists in this
area and a lot of them are active in some type of collective," he
said. His own group currently counts between 60 and 100 members.


Pins, posters and pamphlets at the fair had as much of an anti-
war, alternative and environmentalist message as promoting the
imminent collapse of the world order.


Part of the aim of being at the fair was to help bring together
like-minded groups and to reach out to those unaware of
anarchism, to educate people about anarchist history and
philosophy, Nova said.


"We need to get people to work together and build a movement if
we're ever going to achieve the ultimate goal of social
revolution, of defeating capitalism," he said.


Anarchist groups in the city have in the past collapsed in
frustration and infighting among different factions.


One committed anarchist, who declined to be named, illustrated
how rival elements can vie for followers. "I was a Marxist, a
Leninist, hung out with some Trotskyites then I became an
anarchist pacifist," he explained.


"There's a lot of reluctance in this city about getting involved
in another group that's not going to go anywhere," added Nova.


The assumption that organized anarchism is a contradiction in
terms was a misunderstanding, he insisted.


"Everyone has bought into the idea that anarchism and anarchy is
chaos instead of order," he said. "But it isn't. It is order...
And that's one of the things we're trying to correct."


"Contrary to popular myth, anarchists like to organize," his
group says in one of its pamphlets, appealing to radicals, anti-
authoritarians and revolutionaries alike to join its ranks.


The bookfair may be nowhere near the size of more established
events in London, Montreal and San Francisco, but organizers said
that with a turnout of over 1,000 people on Saturday, the event
could become an annual fixture.


The bookfair is a joint effort by activists who are able to
update a centralized website. "Let's try to keep the lists
alphabetical," the website pleads. Even anarchists, it seems,
like things in a certain order.

