

FIFA president Sepp Blatter on Monday urged cricket-mad India to
embrace football, saying the sport had a great future in the land
of one billion people.


"We are here not to fight against an established sport," Blatter
told reporters on his first official visit to India, during which
he will also meet Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.


"I admire the game called cricket and I don't to want to change
the most established sport in your country now," he said.


"But I always campaign for football because in this game there is
no difference between caste, culture and creed or rich and poor.
It is the fascination of this game that attracts people all over
the world."


Blatter said FIFA had special plans to improve football in India,
who are currently ranked 165th in the world and 34th in Asia.


But he urged the country's football administrators to work harder
to match world standards.


"The Indian dream of reaching top international levels can be
realised through the work done by All India Football Federation
(AIFF) with support from the government and corporate houses," he
said.


"But it is only if you help yourself that heaven will help you.
As Confucius said: 'If your brother asks for a fish, don't give
him the same, instead teach him how to catch it.'"


Blatter said that football's future lay in Asia since Europe was
"saturated for foreign players and coaches."


"Good coaches will come to India if a good technical and
administrative infrastructure is in place."


Asian Football Confederation chief Mohammed bin Hammam of Qatar,
who is accompanying Blatter on the three-day trip, was critical
of the AIFF headed by federal minister Priyaranjan Das Munshi.


"With the existing structure, don't think of progress even in the
next 100 years," Hammam said.


India was the first Asian nation to make the Olympic semi-finals
at Melbourne in 1956 and won the Asian Games gold medal twice in
1951 and 1962.


It may have been just the tonic football needed to catch the
imagination of the country's youth. Official apathy, however,
denied the sport its due even as cricket made giant strides.


Baichung Bhutia, the only Indian to play professional football in
England -- he spent three years with third-division Bury --
blamed lack of planning for the current mess.


"We have no infrastructures at all at the grassroots level," he
said recently. "There is no system in this country to encourage
young boys to play football. There is no professionalism."

