

The parents of BBC journalist Alan Johnston, who was kidnapped in
Gaza more than a month ago, on Monday appealed for an end to
their ordeal after a Palestinian group claimed to have killed
him.


"This is a desperately worrying time for us," Graham and Margaret
Johnston said in a statement, a day after Kataeb al-Jihad al-
Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity) said it had
"executed" the 44-year-old journalist.


"We make a heartfelt appeal to anyone who may have knowledge of
Alan's situation and well-being to contact the authorities in
Gaza.


"Our son has lived and worked among the people of Gaza for the
last three years to bring their story to the outside world and we
ask everyone of them to help end this ordeal."


The British Broadcasting Corporation and the Foreign Office in
London said Monday they were still working to secure independent
verification of the claim.


Johnston, who was the only Western journalist to both live and
work in Gaza, was abducted at gunpoint on March 12 as he drove
home. He had been due to finish his posting there at the end of
March.


Before Sunday's statement, which was sent to news outlets in the
Middle East, nobody had claimed responsibility for the kidnap and
nothing had been heard of his whereabouts.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed -- which has the same name as a group
set up by Al- Qaeda in Iraq, although it is not clear if the two
are linked -- said it had killed Johnston to put pressure on the
Palestinian authorities.


The BBC said Sunday it was "deeply concerned" at the development,
but said there had been no independent verification that their
correspondent was dead.


Palestinian government officials also said there was no evidence
to support the group's claim.


The BBC held a day of action last Thursday -- the month
anniversary of Johnston's kidnap -- to step up calls for his
release.


BBC director-general Mark Thompson said Palestinian leader Mahmud
Abbas had told him he had "credible evidence" Johnston was safe
and well and that the authorities were "fully engaged" in the
case and working to resolve it.


Thousands of people from around the world have signed a petition
calling for Johnston's release, with hundreds posting messages of
support on the BBC News website.


Palestinian journalists have also organised a series of strikes
and rallies to protest his abduction.


Johnston, who has worked for the BBC for 16 years and has been
posted to Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, is one of a number of
Western journalists to have been kidnapped in Gaza in recent
years.


But all have been released unharmed, usually within days of their
capture.

