

France's Sebastien Bourdais won his third consecutive Champ-car
Grand Prix of Long Beach here Sunday, holding off Spain's Oriol
Servia on a restart with two laps remaining.


Pole-sitter Bourdais, seeking his fourth consecutive points crown
in the series, sped off on the lap-77 restart and kept the edge
to the end to beat Servia with Australian Will Power third and
England's Justin Wilson fourth.


"The car showed what it can do," Bourdais said. "The last
restart, you get a lot of pickup. I made sure I was going to slow
down very much at the apex and it worked out pretty good."


Servia, who started 14th while driving in place of injured
Canadian Paul Tracy, stayed behind Bourdais through the hairpin
curve but could not overtake the Frenchman over the 11-turn, two-
mile street course.


"I know PT would have tried on the restart to go for the win. I
couldn't do it. I had to settle for second," Servia said.


Tracy suffered a back injury in a practice crash on Saturday.


American Alex Figge crashed in the ninth turn on lap 72 and was
taken off the track on a stretcher, setting up the dramatic
restart.


But the only major move came on the last lap, when season points
leader Power moved past Alex Tagliani into third and Wilson also
got past the Canadian before the checkered flag.


"We were following everybody all day. We could never get a rhythm
going," Power said. "It's a good fight for the championship."


Power, who won the season opener last week in Las Vegas, will try
to hold off the challenge of Bourdais next week in the third of
16 season races at Houston.


Bourdais took the lead into the first turn with Power second.
Mexico's Mario Dominguez crashed in the ninth turn on lap nine
and on the restart, Tagliani passed Power to grab second place.


Bourdais stretched his lead to nearly 10 seconds over Tagliani
ahead of the first set of pit stops and after the refueling
rebuilt the margin to 20 seconds ahead of Servia, who led briefly
while Bourdais was in the pits.


French rookie Simon Pagenaud crashed to bring out a caution flag
and another French rookie, Tristan Gommendy, shuffled his pit
stops to seize the lead on a restart on lap 58 with Bourdais
content to stay right behind him.


After 10 laps, Gommendy was forced into the pits to refuel and
that left Bourdais in front of Servia by almost two seconds on
their way to the finish.

