

When England's Kevin Pietersen bats against South Africa in a
crucial World Cup Super Eights match here on Tuesday, he will be
short of neither motivation nor confidence.


That the explosive middle-order batsman reserves his best against
the country of his birth can be gauged from the fact he averages
151.33 against South Africa, and 56.55 overall.


South Africa suffered from Pietersen's punishing blade in a home
series in 2005 when the England batsman overcame a hostile crowd
to hammer 454 runs in seven matches with three centuries.


He is currently in tremendous nick, having slammed England's only
century in the ongoing tournament against defending champions
Australia in a Super Eights game.


England hope he continues in the same vein in a match they need
to win to sustain their hopes of qualifying for the semi-finals.


If South Africa win, they will be in the last four.


But lurking beneath the surface is a bitter relationship between
Pietersen, who was condemned as an opportunist when he decided to
qualify for England after protesting against the quota system in
South Africa, and Proteas skipper Graeme Smith.


The two have been engaged in a torrid war of words for two years.


"I think everyone knows we don't get on for whatever reasons, but
that's gone. It's not about myself, Smith, Andre Nel or Michael
Vaughan on Tuesday, it's about producing a big team performance,"
said Pietersen.


"I wouldn't say that it is the game that matters to me more than
the others because the match against Australia is big as well,
but it's an important game for me and I look forward to it.


"It's going to be a big game with a lot of needle. I don't know
why there is needle between the two sides other than there are
some really world-class players on both the sides."


Smith was furious when Pietersen switched allegiances.


"I'm patriotic about my country, and that's why I don't like
Kevin Pietersen - the only reason that Kevin and I have never had
a relationship is because he slated South Africa," Smith has said
in the past.


Pietersen described Smith as a "muppet" and added: "I don't talk
to Smith. It's a waste of breath because I don't have any respect
for him."


The controversial Pietersen on Monday tried to diffuse a
potential explosive situation.


"I saw Smith in India and I saw him in the world series and we
said hello," said the 26-year-old.


An interesting tussle is on the cards when in-form Pietersen
faces a quality South African pace attack, comprising Shaun
Pollock and Makhaya Ntini, on a pitch having pace and bounce.


Pietersen has the technique and temperament to play a long
innings on any surface, having the shots to demoralise any attack
when in flow. He has already played a big role in England's Ashes
series win over Australia at home in 2005.


South Africa will like to see the back of Pietersen as early as
possible because they will be under pressure if he stays longer
at the crease. They are aware he can alter the course of the
match in a few overs with his big-hitting.


Pietersen is England's leading scorer in this tournament with 341
runs in seven matches. He has so far scored 1,923 runs in 49 one-
day internationals with four centuries, including three against
South Africa.

