

The national outcry in the United States over racist remarks by
radio host Don Imus has triggered a fresh debate over the use of
misogynistic language beloved by rap artists.


As civil rights activists held victory parties following the
sacking of Imus over his racial slurs, other black commentators
began soul-searching over epithets such as "ho" and the portrayal
of women as sex objects in rap videos.


For some, Imus's use of the phrase "nappy-headed ho's (messy-
haired whores)" to describe the mostly black Rutgers women's
basketball team was an inevitable consequence of rap argot
entering common usage by osmosis.


"The language from the rappers and comedians has seeped into the
culture to the point that Don Imus thought it was okay to call
black women 'ho's'," said Carol Swain, a professor of law at
Vanderbilt University.


In a blog on the Huffington Post, commentator Earl Ofari
Hutchinson said rappers like Snoop Dogg shared responsibility for
the Imus furor, and accused black leaders of tolerating sexist
rap lyrics for too long.


"Imus demeaned a basketball team, Snoop and his pals have
demeaned a whole generation of young blacks, and especially young
black women, and blacks have let them get away with it,"
Hutchinson wrote.


"That's why Imus is their Frankenstein."


Snoop Dogg, who this week received a suspended prison sentence
and 800 hours of community service after pleading no contest to
drugs and weapons charges, dismissed the argument that hip-hop
was to blame.


"It's a completely different scenario," the rapper told MTV.
"(Rappers) are not talking about no collegiate basketball girls
who have made it to the next level in education and sports.


"We're talking about ho's that's in the 'hood, that ain't doing
shit, that's trying to get a nigga for his money. These are two
separate things."


But for Hutchinson, the language Snoop used in his defense only
serves to provide further evidence of the problem.


"In one grotesque sentence in his knock against Imus, Snoop
managed to get in all the ancient stereotypes about black women,"
Hutchinson wrote, calling on leaders like the Reverend Al
Sharpton to boycott the rapper's next album.


Sharpton meanwhile has insisted that sexism in any form should
not be tolerated. "We will not stop until we make it clear that
no one should denigrate women," he said at a news conference in
New York on Thursday.


"No one, even in the name of creativity, should enjoy a large
consumer base when they denigrate people based on race and based
on sex."


Film-maker Byron Hurt, whose recent documentary "Hip Hop: Beyond
Beats and Rhymes," looks at sexism and gender stereotypes in
mainstream hip-hop culture, meanwhile took aim at music videos
populated by scantily clad women.


"You're seeing repetitive images of woman as boy toys, as sex
objects. I think that's a problem," Hurt told CNN.


But Russell Simmons, a record executive and leader of the Hip-Hop
Summit Action Network, a group which aims to promote the music,
said rappers were only guilty of reflecting the world around
them.


"We're a violent country. That's our sad truth. And rappers are a
reflection sometimes of our sad truth," Simmons said, rejecting
comparisons and Imus and the hip-hop community.


"Hip-hop is a worldwide cultural phenomena that transcends race
and doesn't engage in racial slurs," Simmons said Friday in a
statement.


"Don Imus' racially motivated diatribe toward the Rutgers women's
basketball team was in no way connected to hip-hop culture."


Vanderbilt academic Swain meanwhile expressed hope the Imus furor
would force the black community to address the sexist portrayal
of women by rappers.


"If we engage in a broader dialogue and hold members of our
community accountable then that will be a positive for the whole
affair," she said.

