

A historian said Monday he has uncovered documents from post-
World War II trials of Japanese war criminals that prove the
military directly forced Asian women into sexual slavery.


The findings will likely cause a stir as conservative Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe sparked controversy last month when he said
there was no proof the imperial army directly coerced so-called
"comfort women."


Hirofumi Hayashi, a professor of history at Kanto Gakuin
University, said he found seven items while combing through the
massive storehouse of documents submitted during the 1946-1948
"Tokyo Trials" of war criminals.


One document, written by Dutch prosecutors and dated March 13,
1946, quoted a Japanese civilian employee of the Japanese army
who said an officer made local women in occupied Borneo stand
naked and slapped them in the face.


"We detained them under orders of the chief security officer to
find excuses to put them into brothels," the Japanese employee
was quoted as saying, according to Hayashi.


Another document also includes testimony by a Japanese
lieutenant, who said the army forced women into sexual slavery on
Indonesia's Moa island, he said.


"The document shows that he testified that the army forced local
girls into brothels," the historian told AFP.


"It says that it was in retaliation for local villagers who
attacked the Japanese force," he said. "The army killed 40
villagers and put six of their daughters into brothels."


"It says one of the six agreed to the demands that she work at a
brothel while five others refused" but were forced, he said.


Historians believe up to 200,000 women served in brothels for
Japanese troops across Asia by the end of the war.


Abe caused a stir last month when he said that no documents
showed Japan "directly" enslaved women, such as by kidnapping
them.


However, Abe has repeatedly said that Japan was responsible in a
broader sense and that he stands behind a landmark 1993 apology
to former comfort women.


Hayashi plans to present his documents to the public Tuesday.

