

The euro jumped to a fresh all-time high against the yen in Asian
trade on Monday after Group of Seven finance chiefs avoided
specific mention of the sliding Japanese yen, dealers said.


They said that the European single currency also hit fresh two-
year highs against the dollar amid concerns about slowing US
economic growth as well as prospects of another interest rate
rise in the eurozone.


The euro rose to as high as 162.43 yen in early Tokyo trade
before falling back to 161.57, up from 161.32 late Friday in New
York.


The euro gained to 1.3563 dollars from 1.3532, off a fresh two-
year high of 1.3576. The dollar edged down to 119.15 yen from
119.22 yen.


"Players took the G7 statement as a lead to sell the yen against
the euro," said Hideaki Inoue, chief manager of forex trading at
Mitsubishi UJF Trust and Banking Corp.


Finance ministers and central bank governors from the seven top
industrialised nations warned at their weekend meeting in
Washington that excessive volatility on foreign exchange markets
was "undesirable."


But the G7 refrained from commenting on the weakness of the yen,
a trend that has unsettled eurozone officials who fear it will
erode eurozone export earnings and dampen growth.


The ministers instead reiterated calls on China to allow the yuan
to appreciate more rapidly.


The euro was also strong against the US currency and its December
2004 all-time high of 1.3666 dollars was now in players' sights,
Inoue said.


The market is paying close attention to US economic indicators to
be released this week, including consumer prices, housing starts
and industrial output, dealers said.


"Friday's unexpected fall in the US trade deficit did not provide
much, if any, boost to the dollar," noted National Australia Bank
strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


"As such, (Monday's) US retail sales and the National Association
of Home Builders housing market index will need to be upbeat to
overcome negative dollar sentiment," he added.


The euro got another boost last week when European Central Bank
chief Jean- Claude Trichet indicated that the central bank was
ready to raise eurozone borrowing costs to 4.0 percent in June,
dealers said.

