

Briton Lewis Hamilton etched his name into the Formula One record
books on Sunday as he became the first man to claim three podium
finishes in his first three races in the sport.


The 22-year-old Briton, the first man of Afro-Caribbean descent
to race in Formula One and the second black driver after Indian
Narain Karthikeyan, had finished third and second in his two
previous races to date.


Here in Bahrain he followed that up with another second place
after starting a Grand Prix on the front row for the first time
alongside pole sitter and eventual winner Ferrari's Brazilian
driver Felipe Massa.


"I'm very pleased with the result," said Hamilton. "To have
finished on the podium three times out of three is fantastic.


Before Sunday's race the talented rookie earned the praise of
Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone, who thought that the
Stevenage-born Hamilton would be the next superstar of Formula
One.


As well as making history here in Sakhir, Hamilton, the 2006 GP2
champion, vaulted himself into a share of the lead in the
driver's championship alongside his teammate and double world
drivers champion Fernando Alonso. Those two, along with Ferrari's
Finnish driver Kimi Raikkonen, are locked on 22 points.


McLaren Mercedes-Benz CEO Martin Whitmarsh was full of praise for
his young star's performance: "We have two drivers in our team
now contending for the drivers' championship," he said.


"I think people at the start thought Lewis was clearly a very
fast driver, and he started very, very strongly. But we all have
to conclude now that he is a serious title challenger this year."


Hamilton's consistency has been hugely impressive and it is clear
to see that he has earned the full confidence and backing of his
British based team.


"He will of course want to go one better soon and win a race, but
I don't think any of us doubt that it is going to be achieved
some time this season," Whitmarsh added.


Above all, Hamilton has shown he can cope with all the pressure -
and in Bahrain on Sunday he had to cope with a tricky, slippery,
sandy track and was not overawed when Felipe Massa eventually
started to pull away following his first pit-stop where he was
restricted by a heavy fuel load.


He recovered and chased his more experienced Ferrari counterpart
to the line, closing the gap to just 2.5 seconds by the end.


The fact that Hamilton and his Spanish teammate Fernando Alonso
are joint leaders of the championship is a real bonus for the
McLaren team.


Ferrari have shown quicker pace thus far in the opening two
races, however here, in the sun-baked Bahrain desert, McLaren
were much closer to their rivals and although Massa claimed the
chequered flag the extra pace found by the Woking based team was
promising.


"We have definitely closed the gap on Ferrari," said Hamilton.
"And I know everybody will continue to push hard to improve even
more in time for the Spanish Grand Prix."


It was not such a happy outing for Alonso however. The former
Renault driver, a winner here twice before, finished fifth and
was the victim of an expertly conducted overtaking move by German
BMW-Sauber driver Nick Heidfeld.


Despite that McLaren boss Ron Dennis decided to concentrate on
the positives from the weekend.


"Even though it was not a perfect day we can leave Bahrain
leading both Championships which is a great achievement for the
team," Dennis said.


For Ferrari Felipe Massa was simply relieved at being able to
exonerate the ghosts from the previous week's Grand Prix in
Sepang, Malaysia where he was outfoxed by both McLarens as he
relinquished his pole position for a fifth place finish.


"A truly perfect weekend for Felipe," was team boss Jean Todt's
verdict   The Brazilian's third win of his Formula One career
also clawed him back into the championship race and he now sits
just five points behind the leading trio.


"Hopefully we are now back in the fight," he added. "Getting the
victory was very important."


Massa, who won last year's season ending Brazilian Grand Prix in
his native Sao Paulo, was quick to rank this latest win close to
that achievement, his finest in the sport.


"In terms of how important it was, I think Brazil was the most
important for me," he added. "But Brazil was not the most
difficult race for me. Here the driving was much more difficult."


Massa had been strongly criticised by the Italian press after his
Malaysian performance for attempting a risky overtaking manoeuvre
on Hamilton that forced his car to leave the track and lose
ground on the leaders.


The Brazilian admitted that his victory here in Bahrain gave him
a feeling of redemption.


"The results of the first two races were not as I expected, I
think something was missing. This time we put everything
together," he said.


In stark contrast to a delighted Massa, Kimi Raikkonnen was
downbeat after his third-place finish. However, the Finn is
confident that Ferrari will use the month break until the next
Grand Prix in Spain to re-open the gap over McLaren.


"This whole weekend has been quite difficult," he said.
"Hopefully at the next test we will find something and some parts
that improve the situation for me so we can try to start being at
the front again."

