

A village in southwestern Ireland has won another round in a
battle to change its name in the Irish language back to Fort of
the Harlot.


For centuries, the village in County Limerick, known as Doon in
English, had been known in Gaelic as Dun Bleisce, or Fort of the
Harlot, but the name was changed in 2003.


Possibly due to bureaucratic sensitivities, Irish language
Minister Eamon O Cuiv ordered the village's Gaelic name be
changed to simply An Dun, or The Fort.


The unpopular move resulted in about 1,000 locals signing a
petition seeking to have 'harlot' added back to the name. They
were backed by local politicians and a Limerick County Council
motion of support.


O Cuiv asked the country's Placenames Commission, the official
arbiter of Gaelic names, to "consider afresh" their advice.


In a statement Sunday, he said the commission had confirmed its
view that "An Dun" was the "appropriate Irish version" of the
name, but has also confirmed that the alternative "Dun Bleisce"
has an "attested historical basis."


Having considered the matter carefully, the minister said that
"as there is historical evidence to support both versions of the
Irish name, I am open to accede to their request and it is
legally permissible within the existing legislation for me to do
so."


O Cuiv said he had published a draft order to change the
village's name back, and that he welcomed further comments from
the public.


"Assuming no strong objections are received, I propose to make
the order in four weeks' time," he said


Local councillor Mary Jackman said she was absolutely delighted
for the local people.


"I am really thrilled. Signposts had always been Dun Bleisce and
I think it was bureaucracy or a little glitch in interpretation
that changed it," she told AFP.


Jackman said the literal translation of the Gaelic word may be
harlot but the woman who the village was named after in ancient
times may not have been a harlot in the sense of the term today.


"I believe that blesc was not a derogatory term in those days. It
would have meant that she was a strong or powerful woman in the
locality. No one knows anything about her really," she said.


According to historical evidence provided by the commission, the
first mention of the name Dun Bleisce was in 774.


"She would have been a woman of substance. There was a strong
sense of feminism in rural areas in those days," Jackman said.


"The name was the Dun of Bleisce, or the dwelling or fort of this
lassie, and she is quite entitled to have her pedigree embedded
in the place name.


"Nobody has any problem locally with the word. It is the old
authentic name."


O Cuiv has also been at loggerheads with another Irish town,
Dingle, County Kerry, as a result of its name being changed to
the Gaelic "Daingean".


One of Ireland's most famous tourist destinations, Dingle, in
southwestern Ireland, voted in a plebiscite overwhelmingly
against the government edict and demanded another change to
"Dingle Daingean Ui Chuis".


O Cuiv says the law does not permit such a bilingual name.


Dingle is in a gaeltacht area -- a district where Gaelic is
specially promoted to try and save the ailing language from
extinction.


Gaelic was Ireland's predominant language but was overwhelmed
following British colonisation when English became the sole
language of government.


O Cuiv has been making thousands of orders reversing mainly
anglicised placenames laid down by a mapping programme that
started in 1824 when Britain ruled Ireland.


He is a grandson of one of the Republic of Ireland's founding
fathers, US-born Eamon de Valera, who was also a strong advocate
of the Irish language.

