

NATO-led troops said Monday they had killed several key Taliban
leaders in a series of airstrikes and raids targeting militants
in southern Afghanistan during the past week.


The raids in the insurgency-hit southern province of Helmand were
part of a major NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) offensive launched by some 5,000 Afghan and foreign troops
early last month, it said.


"ISAF, in joint operations with Afghan forces, launched a series
of attacks and precision strikes against Taliban extremists in
Helmand this week resulting in the elimination of several key
extremist leaders," it said in a statement.


It did not give any further details on the identities or ranks of
the Taliban leaders, nor of the locations or dates of the
attacks.


"Striking at the heart of the problem and removing these key
leaders has paid off," the statement quoted ISAF Commander for
southern Afghanistan Major General Ton van Loon as saying.


"We fully realise the influence these Taliban extremist leaders
have on the population of southern Afghanistan, who have clearly
told us they felt like they were hostages in their own
communities," the general said.


Meanwhile gunmen shot dead a school headmaster in the
southeastern province of Khost as he returned home late Sunday,
police said, blaming "terrorists" for the attack.


An Afghan soldier was also killed and two were wounded in a
gunfight with Taliban militants in southwestern Ghazni province
on Sunday night, provincial police said.


The hardline Taliban regime was ousted from power in 2001 by US-
led forces but has since regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency
that has left nearly 1,000 people dead this year alone.


Around 37,000 NATO-led troops and a separate force of nearly
12,000 US-led coalition soliders are in Afghanistan to hunt down
the rebels, who are trying to topple the US-backed government in
Kabul.


Separately the coalition said it had captured eight Taliban
insurgents early Monday.


Four with alleged ties to a "known, high-ranking Taliban leader"
were arrested in Helmand while another four were seized for
allegedly running a militant "safe-house" in the Barmal district
of Paktika province, it said.

