

A historian said Monday that newly discovered documents from
post-World War II trials of Japanese war criminals offer fresh
proof the military directly forced Asian women into sexual
slavery.


The findings will likely cause a stir as conservative Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe last month sparked controversy by saying
there was no proof the imperial army directly coerced so-called
"comfort women."


Hirofumi Hayashi, a professor of history at Kanto Gakuin
University, said he found seven items while combing through the
massive storehouse of documents submitted during the 1946-1948
"Tokyo Trials" of war criminals.


One document, written by Dutch prosecutors and dated March 13,
1946, quoted a Japanese civilian employee of the Japanese army
who said an officer made local women in occupied Borneo stand
naked and slapped them in the face.


"We detained them under orders of the chief security officer to
find excuses to put them into brothels," the Japanese employee
was quoted as saying, according to Hayashi.


Another document also includes testimony by a Japanese
lieutenant, who said the army forced women into sexual slavery on
Indonesia's Moa island, he said.


"The document shows that he testified that the army forced local
girls into brothels," the historian told AFP.


"It says that it was in retaliation for local villagers who
attacked the Japanese force," he said. "The army killed 40
villagers and put six of their daughters into brothels."


"It says one of the six agreed to the demands that she work at a
brothel, while five others refused" but were forced, he said.


Historians believe up to 200,000 women served in brothels for
Japanese troops across Asia by the end of the war.


Abe caused a stir last month when he said that no documents
showed Japan "directly" enslaved women, such as by kidnapping
them.


However, Abe has repeatedly said that Japan was responsible in a
broader sense and that he stood behind a landmark 1993 apology to
former comfort women.


Some conservative activists argue that evidence of direct
involvement comes from the victims' side.


But Hayashi's documents take added significance as they were
officially submitted during the Tokyo Trials, whose validity
Japan accepted in the San Francisco treaty under which it
regained sovereignty from US occupation in 1952.


Hayashi, the chief researcher of the private Center for Research
and Documentation on Japan's War Responsibility, plans to present
his documents to the public on Tuesday.


He will hold a press conference with fellow historian Yoshiaki
Yoshimi, who heads the Tokyo-based institute of researchers and
activists.


Yoshimi, a professor at Tokyo's Chuo University, earlier
discovered documents that showed the Japanese military set up
"comfort stations" to cut down on soldiers raping local women in
occupied China.


Yoshimi's revelations led to Japan's 1993 statement that voiced
"sincere apologies and remorse" and acknowledging the imperial
army was involved "directly or indirectly" in sexual slavery.


Hayashi said documents similar to what he found had been
individually uncovered in the past decade.


"But documents which other countries submitted to the Tokyo
Trials have still not been thoroughly researched," Hayashi said.


Abe's government has responded furiously to a bill before the US
Congress, seen as more likely to pass since the Democrats took
over in January, that would demand Japan issue an unequivocal
admission and apology to comfort women.


But the uproar over Abe's remarks has died down in recent weeks.
Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao last week took a conciliatory
tone on history during a visit to Japan and made no public
mention of the comfort women issue.

