

A Seoul court on Monday jailed an ethnic Korean US citizen for
nine years for spying for communist North Korea, saying his crime
endangered the state.


Judges found Michael Jang, 44, guilty of providing confidential
political and security information to the North, holding meetings
with its spies, illegally entering Pyongyang and possessing
material praising the North.


He was convicted under South Korea's tough National Security Law,
which remains in force despite moves in recent years to improve
state-to-state relations.


The court also handed down jail terms of four to six years on
four South Korean former student activists, two of them from the
leftist Democratic Labor Party (DLP) which has nine parliamentary
seats, for assisting Jang.


The court was told that Jang joined Pyongyang's ruling Workers'
Party in 1989 and had made secret trips to the North since then.


Prosecutors said he had met North Korean agents at least seven
times in Beijing and Bangkok to deliver information and had
received a total of 16,500 dollars in operational funds.


They said the Seoul high school graduate had gone to the United
States in 1982 to join the American military and later secured US
citizenship.


"It's inevitable to sternly punish Jang, who ... offered North
Korea political and military information collected here through
his accomplices, in light of the secrecy and danger of his
crime," said presiding judge Kim Dong-O.


North Korea has previously denounced the case as a "calculated
plot" orchestrated by pro-US forces to foster sentiment against
it and justify sanctions.


The five were arrested last October, the same month North Korea
staged its nuclear test and was hit by UN sanctions.


Prosecutors also accused Jang of launching a spy network in South
Korea five years ago, but the court ruled that a pro-Pyongyang
organisation which he set up did not amount to a spy network
under the law.


The judge said the four South Koreans were given lesser terms
"because it is hard to believe that the information they had
delivered to the North seriously hurts national security."


However he said that even if their behaviour was driven by hopes
of unifying the two Koreas, they had still provided information
to North Korea and had contacts with its spy operatives abroad.


Under the National Security Law all South Koreans need government
approval for trips to North Korea or for other contacts with
northerners.


When the five were indicted in December, prosecutors called
Jang's network the biggest spy ring since a peace summit was held
in Pyongyang in 2000.


The DLP in a statement slammed the harsh sentences and said the
ruling was politically motivated.


It said the security law "should be historically obsolete" at a
time when hundreds of South Koreans visit the Kaesong industrial
estate and the Mount Kumgang tourist resort in the North.


The two Koreas have remained technically at war since the
1950-1953 conflict ended in a fragile armistice, not a peace
treaty.

