

David Moyes believes Everton can start packing their bags for
Europe after a dramatic 2-1 win over Charlton.


Moyes's side moved into fifth place in the Premiership thanks to
James McFadden's injury time winner at Goodison Park and are
firmly on course for the top six finish that guarantees entry
into the UEFA Cup.


Everton made it hard for themselves after taking the lead with
just nine minutes to go through Joleon Lescott. With just a
minute to go in normal time, Darren Bent snatched an equalise but
the hosts regrouped and won it through McFadden.


"We are in a good position now with four games to go, there is a
gap opening now between us and seventh spot," Moyes said. "That
is vital.


"We had to be patient and the lads kept doing the right things.
We must keep going, not get too anxious, and we stuck to the task
and fully deserved the win.


"We had to handle Darren Bent's pace. But I do not agree that
Charlton deserved to win. It was just a bit to close for
comfort."


It was McFadden's first game since January and the winner was the
ideal way to celebrate his return from a broke foot.


Moyes added: "It was great for James to come off the bench and
score the winner. It was a finely worked goal and the finish was
outstanding."


The few moments of attacking intent in a nervous opening period
belonged to Everton, with Lee Carsley sending a 25-yard volley
dipping just over Scott Carson's crossbar.


Leon Osman went close twice more the break. The midfielder was
just able to steer in Mikel Arteta's pass. Then he shot wide
after Charlton's defence gave him too much time to size up his
options.


Charlton finally began to show some attacking ambition after
half-time and were close to taking the lead after 56 minutes.
China midfielder Zheng Zhi's defence- splitting pass picked out
Bent, but the striker lost his composure and shot well wide.


Zheng flashed an effort just over and Everton punished those
misses in the 81st minute.


Andrew Johnson's volley drew a fine stop from Carson, but Lescott
was perfectly placed to lash home from close range.


But Bent is capable of snaffling a goal out of nothing and he did
just that with just minutes left. Matt Holland's flick gave Bent
the chance to turn past two defenders before driving his shot
into the bottom corner.


Charlton thought they had escaped with a valuable point, but
McFadden had the last word in stoppage time when he fired a
superb volley past Carson to send Goodison wild.


While Everton were elated, Charlton, who would have gone above
fourth bottom Sheffield United with a victory, were despondent at
a defeat that leaves them in the relegation zone.


Alan Pardew admitted the defeat was a major blow to his side's
chances of staying up, but he is determined not to let the
players feel sorry for themselves.


"We had some great chances and that's the best we've played in
the last three or four games, so to lose it is a real blow,"
Pardew said.


"But it's only the result that's disappointing because we can
take real heart from how well we played.


"I will not need to lift my lads, all I will do is show them a
video of the game and they will know they should have got
something from it.


"Everton are aiming for Europe and I do not think there was
anything between us. We can still survive and we will take a lot
of strength from this.


"We must not dwell on this performance. We'll be disappointed
tonight, of course, but we gave as good as we got and from Monday
onwards we'll focus on the next game and trying to recreate
today's quality."

