

North Korea was under pressure from negotiating partners Monday
to start shutting down its nuclear programme, after an initial
deadline for disarmament passed without action.


Despite the communist state's assurances that it will take the
first step as soon as it confirms that a financial dispute has
been settled, there were signs of frustration among nations who
have been bargaining with it since 2003.


South Korean newspapers said Seoul is considering delaying the
shipment of crucial bilateral rice aid to the North until it
takes action.


The top US nuclear negotiator, Christopher Hill, expressed his
unhappiness during a visit to Beijing Sunday.


"Needless to say we are not happy that the DPRK (North Korea) has
essentially missed this very important deadline," he told a press
conference.


"The ball is in their court.


"China has asked us to be patient for three or four days, that
seems like a wise thing to do. It's not for the US to take
unilateral actions," Hill said.


Japan urged speedy progress.


"Although the deadline has passed it is still extremely important
for North Korea to take initial action as soon as possible,"
warned Noriyuki Shikata, a foreign ministry spokesman, on Sunday.


Since 2003 China has hosted six-party talks on scrapping the
North's atomic programme with the two Koreas, the United States,
Japan and Russia.


They assumed added urgency after the North tested its first
atomic weapon last October.


The six reached a deal on February 13 under which the North
agreed to disable its programmes in exchange for a million tons
of fuel oil or equivalent aid, plus security and diplomatic
benefits.


Under the first phase it was supposed by April 14 to have shut
down and sealed its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, which produces the
raw material to make plutonium for nuclear weapons. UN atomic
inspectors were to have witnessed the shutdown.


But the deadline slipped due to delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars in North Korean funds which had been frozen in a Macau
bank at US instigation.


The US says the bank funds were freed for collection last week
and there is no reason for further delay.


A North Korean foreign ministry official told AFP on Friday that
Pyongyang stands behind the February deal but will not act until
it sees the money from the Macau bank.


Former US envoy Bill Richardson said Sunday he was optimistic
North Korea will begin the shutdown despite the delay.


"My prediction ... is that early this week, they will invite the
inspectors. They will start the process of shutting down the
reactor," said Richardson, governor of the US state of New
Mexico.


An invitation to the International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors, who were expelled from Pyongyang in 2002 when the
latest nuclear standoff began, would be the first step towards
closing down the reactor.


Former South Korean president Kim Dae-Jung, who held a landmark
summit with the North in 2000, was upbeat about longer-term
prospects for engagement.


"Whether North Korea wants it or not, it is changing, following
in the footsteps of China or Vietnam," Kim told Le Monde
newspaper, referring to communist states that have largely
switched to a market economy.


"If the hostility in international society against North Korea is
softened, I'm sure North Korea's change will pick up speed.
Otherwise, the change will go on at a slow pace."

