

Macau's position as the number one casino destination will not be
threatened by Singapore or other parts of Asia, an executive from
tycoon Stanley Ho's firm said Monday.


Even when Singapore's two multi-billion-dollar casino
developments are open in 2010, the former Portuguese colony can
still hold its position in the expanding gaming market, said
Ambrose So, a director with Sociedade de Jogos de Macau (SJM),
which is owned by Ho.


"Both places have different clienteles. I don't think the two
places will have a life and death competition," So said at the
Asian Casinos Executive summit.


The high rollers and tourists to Macau come mainly from China,
Taiwan and Hong Kong while Singapore is targetting neighbouring
countries in Southeast Asia as well as India and China.


Government figures released this month confirmed that the
southern Chinese enclave had overtaken the Las Vegas Strip as the
world's biggest casino draw.


Gross gaming revenues in 2006 at Macau's 22 casinos were
equivalent to 7.2 billion dollars, outstripping the 6.6 billion
dollars pulled in by the 40-odd gaming centres along Vegas'
famous boulevard.


Stanley Ho's 40-year monopoly on casinos in Macau ended in 2001
when the government allowed foreign operators to enter the scene.


"As you have seen after opening up of the casino industry in
Macau, the total revenue has doubled and now today, the per
capita income of Macau people surpassed that of Hong Kong," So,
said, expressing confidence that Macau will be the centre of the
region's expanding gaming industry.


Lawmakers from Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) are
already drawing up proposals to allow a handful of huge Vegas-
style casinos, which could open their doors within a few years.


Taiwan is considering lifting its ban on casinos while Thailand
is also seen as likely to relax its gaming laws in the coming
years.


Malaysia's Genting International broke ground Monday on
Singapore's second casino development, which is to include a
Universal Studios theme park and the world's largest oceanarium,
as well as gaming facilities.


Las Vegas Sands is building the city state's other multi-billion-
dollar casino and convention project at Marina Bay near
Singapore's commercial heart.


Singapore Trade and Industry Minister Lim Hng Kiang said the
local tourism board expects the developments would together
attract an additional two to three million visitors to the city-
state, helping it to draw 17 million tourists by 2015.


Macau received a record 22 million visitors last year, 60 percent
of them from China. Tourism chiefs expect more than 25 million
visitors to the city of 450,000 this year.


Macau's Cotai gaming strip will eventually hold more than a dozen
new casino resorts with Venetian Macau the centrepiece, offering
a 3,000-room hotel casino complex and exhibition space. It is
under development by Las Vegas Sands, the first foreign gaming
firm granted a licence to operate in Macau.


"Macau is amazing.... the cake is still growing," said Paulo
Azevedo, chief executive of Macau Business Magazine.


"We were amazed last year. We are amazed this year. We will be
amazed next year," he said.

