

South Korea is considering delaying the shipment of crucial rice
aid to North Korea after the communist state missed a deadline to
begin dismantling its nuclear programme, newspapers reported
Monday.


Seoul may also cancel its contract to buy 50,000 tons of fuel oil
and ship it to Pyongyang, said the largest-circulation newspaper
Chosun Ilbo.


Under the first phase of a February 13 multinational deal, the
North was supposed to have shut down and sealed its Yongbyon
nuclear reactor in the presence of UN nuclear inspectors by April
14.


Seoul in return was to have shipped an initial 50,000 tons of
oil.


But the deadline slipped due to delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars in North Korean funds which had been frozen in a Macau
bank at US instigation.


Dong-A Ilbo and Chosun newspapers said Seoul may hold back the
bilateral food aid until the North shuts down the reactor, its
source of plutonium for nuclear weapons.


The US says the bank funds have now been freed and there is no
reason for the North to delay further.


Chosun said Seoul, at a four-day economic cooperation meeting in
Pyongyang starting this Wednesday, had planned to offer 400,000
tonnes of rice over the whole of this year.


But the paper said the rice aid may be delayed unless the North
shuts down Yongbyon by next Saturday.


Top officials, including the unification and foreign ministers,
met on Sunday to discuss North Korea's delayed disarmament but
disclosed no details on their response.


"Nothing has been decided yet. You'd better wait and see a few
more days," said unification ministry spokesman Kang Jong-Suk.


The South had offered the impoverished North some 500,000 tonnes
of rice annually before Pyongyang's missile tests in July last
year. Relations chilled further after the North's October missile
test, but improved after it agreed in principle to scrap its
nuclear programme.


Newspapers said the Seoul government would also not ship the
50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil until Pyongyang allows in UN
inspectors and seals its reactor.


It has already bought the shipment, and three tankers are on
lease until April 20. Chosun said the delay is costing the
government 100 million won (107,640 dollars) a day in storage
charges and tanker hire fees.

