

US President George W. Bush's concept of the "war on terror" has
strengthened disaffected extremist groups and given them a sense
of shared identity, a British government minister was to say
Monday.


According to the office of the international development
secretary, Hilary Benn was to use a speech in New York to attack
Bush's rhetoric, which he said had made small, disparate
extremist groups feel part of something bigger.


"In the UK, we do not use the phrase 'war on terror' because we
can't win by military means alone, and because this isn't us
against one organised enemy with a clear identity and a coherent
set of objectives," he was to say.


"It is the vast majority of the people in the world -- of all
nationalities and faiths -- against a small number of loose,
shifting and disparate groups who have relatively little in
common apart from their identification with others who share
their distorted view of the world and their idea of being part of
something bigger.


"What these groups want is to force their individual and narrow
values on others without dialogue, without debate, through
violence. And by letting them feel part of something bigger, we
give them strength."


Such open criticism is likely to boost Benn's standing among
left-wing sections of Britain's governing Labour Party, which
have been unhappy at Prime Minister Tony Blair's close alignment
with Washington and involvement in Iraq.


It could also help his candidature for Labour's deputy leadership
post, which is to be contested in the coming months.


Elsewhere in the speech at the Centre for International Co-
operation, Benn was to echo Blair's call for a combination of
military means and "soft power" techniques like multilateral aid
and development to combat extremism.


He was also to endorse Blair's view that the fight against
extremism was essentially one of values and ideas.


Bush coined the phrase "war on terror" shortly after the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States by Islamist
extremists.


The Observer newspaper said last December that government
ministers and diplomats had been told by the Foreign Office to
drop the phrase and others seen liable to anger Muslims and
increase tensions in the Islamic world.

