

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte urged Sudan on
Monday to accept a UN peacekeeping plan for Darfur and warned the
alternative was further isolation on the international scene.


"We must move quickly to a larger, hybrid United Nations-African
Union peacekeeping force with a single, unified chain of command
that conforms to UN standards and practices," he told reporters
as he wrapped up a five-day visit to Sudan.


"A quick transition to a UN-AU hyrbid force, an improvement in
access for humanitarian workers as set forth in the recent
(peace) agreement, and support for the TDRA (transitional Darfur
authority) would improve the situation in Darfur and could pave
the way for better relations between Sudan and the international
community," he said.


"The alternative for Sudan is continued and possibly even
intensified international isolation," Negroponte warned.


A three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan is supposed to culminate with the deployment of UN
peacekeepers to bolster the embattled African force in the war-
torn western Sudanese region.


Khartoum has agreed to the first two phases which mainly involve
logistical and technical support from the UN, but Sudan has yet
to give its green light to the more contentious final phase.


A peace deal was signed by Khartoum in May 2006, but only one of
the three negotiating rebel factions endorsed the deal, which has
remained a dead letter and failed to quell the violence.


Negroponte urged non-signatory rebels to join the negotiations
and Khartoum to comply with the deal by disarming its proxy
Janjaweed militia, accused of atrocities in Darfur.


"The government of Sudan must disarm the Janjaweed, the Arab
militias that we all know could not exist without the Sudanese
government's active support," he said.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations. Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say
the death toll is much higher.

