

Growing ranks of US soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan are using
written and video online journals known as blogs to share
frontline views with loved ones and critics back home.


Many soldiers blog to share feelings and experiences with family
and friends.


Others do so to show the human side of soldiers in the conflict
and to counteract what they see a skewed focus on politics and
dire news by mainstream media.


"It's a whole new wave of journalism," said California National
Guard specialist Jean-Paul Borda, who created Milblogging.com in
October of 2005.


The website claims to be the world's largest index of military
blogs, with a registry of 1,702 from 29 countries.


"When I started blogging originally from Afghanistan my thing was
online humor," Borda said.


"I'd joke about things like care packages and avoid my mission. I
didn't want to write about that because my family was reading it
on a daily basis and I wanted to keep them at ease."


Borda said that blogging by soldiers, as well as their spouses
and families, has exploded since he launched milblogging.com,
which was bought by Military.com in 2006.


"A lot of times guys will blog out of frustration about how the
media is painting the picture," Borda told AFP.


Staff sergeant Toby Nunn just started a blog to showcase each
member of his and Borda's unit, which is preparing to deploy.


"People hear a lot about what is going on from CNN, NBC, Fox News
and all that," Nunn said.


"They hear the political aspect and not the human side; the faces
and places behind the action. I want to tell the story of my
guys, not politics."


Nunn described blogging as a natural extension of the essays he
wrote for his father while serving in the Balkans.


"I found it pretty therapeutic and a good way to share with my
family," Nunn said. "Now that blogging is out there, it is the
same thing except it's being published on the worldwide web."


Along with customizing blogs, soldiers craft video messages for
profiles on social networking websites such as MySpace or
uploading to popular video-sharing website YouTube.


BlackFive, Mudville Gazette and Wordsmith at War are among
military blogs with devoted followings. Some military bloggers
have returned home to book deals based on their postings.


A book titled "My War: Killing Time in Iraq" by military
"blogfather" Colby Buzzell was described by famed author Kurt
Vonnegut as "nothing less than the soul of an extremely
interesting human being at war on our behalf in Iraq."


The recently published "Blog of War" by Matthew Currier Burden
won a Vanity Fair magazine review, which recommended: "Grab it
before the Pentagon orders it burned."


Military blogging has become so widespread that a conference
devoted to it is to take place in Washington in May. Borda is to
host an awards ceremony at the event for top bloggers.


"It is getting bigger and bigger," Borda said of military
blogging. "I'm a software geek by nature and I can't imagine
going without it."


Soldiers must be careful to avoid accidentally giving away
tactical data, even innocently by showing details of a compound
layout in the background of a playful picture.


The US military also has longstanding rules against soldiers
leaking mission- related information, such as troop strengths or
operations, in any form, whether it is old-fashioned letters or
new-age video blogs.


"Soldiers have to be careful with what they show," Nunn told AFP.


"Most important of all, my loyalty is to my men. I wouldn't
jepoardize them."


Savvy commanders stay aware of what is being posted in blogs but
don't interfere with messages that steer clear of mission
specifics.


Along with guarding the integrity of operations, bloggers need to
make it clear that their musings represent their opinions and not
those of the Department of Defense, according to US Navy Lt.
Commander Jeff Davis.


During a recent stint commanding a Navy submarine in the Pacific
Ocean, Davis kept abreast of blogs and news to make certain
missions weren't compromised.


"I had search engines hooked up to give me a daily hit on things
like that," Davis said. "People are pretty good at patrolling the
blogosphere and letting us know when there are problems. Overall,
people have been pretty responsible."


Davis added that military officers that the practice was not
unusual among military public affairs officers.


Some soldiers use blogs as "soap boxes" to rant while others use
them as platforms to show soldiers trying to make lives of Iraqis
and Afghans better, Nunn noted.


"I don't think blogging is changing the force," Nunn said. "It is
just showing that these are regular people, the 10-year-old who
delivered your newspaper, doing a different job."

