

The former head of Indonesian state airline Garuda will seek
release from detention Monday after his weekend arrest in
connection with the murder of a leading human rights activist,
his lawyer said.


Former Garuda president Indra Setiawan was arrested early
Saturday, days after police named him as a suspect in the
poisoning of Munir Said Thalib on a Garuda flight to Amsterdam in
September 2004.


"We will file a demand for his release from detention later
today," lawyer Muhammad Assegaf told AFP.


The former executive secretary of the state carrier, Rohainil
Aini, was arrested later the same day.


National police chief Sutanto said the two were being
investigated over the falsification of documents for a Garuda
pilot whose conviction for Munir's murder has been overturned.


Munir was 38 when he was found dead on a flight from Singapore to
Amsterdam in September 2004. It had been believed that his drink
on the flight had been laced with arsenic.


The Garuda pilot was jailed for 14 years for the murder but the
Indonesian Supreme Court last year overturned his conviction,
sparking outcry among international rights groups.


Rights activists including Munir's widow have accused the
government and police of dragging their feet in investigating the
case because intelligence officers were believed to be behind the
killing.


Police last week said fresh evidence and testimony showed that
Munir had actually been poisoned while on a stopover at
Singapore's Changi airport.


The new evidence and testimony were later submitted to the
prosecutor's office in a bid to reopen the case.


Assegaf said if police denied Monday's request for release, he
would consider filing a motion in court against the detention, a
move his lawyers were currently working on.


"We are currently looking at whether there are enough reasons to
file a case against the police over the detention," Assegaf said.


The lawyer also criticised the police handling of Setiawan's
arrest in a pre- dawn raid on a house in the capital Jakarta.


"The arrest was conducted as if my client is a terrorist,"
Assegaf said.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of Indonesian dictator Suharto.


He had worked to expose military involvement in human rights
violations during East Timor's 1999 vote for independence from
Indonesia.

