

Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne on Monday faces a grilling
in parliament -- and calls to resign -- for allowing some of the
15 mariners captured by Iran to sell their stories to the media.


As parliament returns after the Easter break, Browne, who has
taken responsibility for the controversial decision, was to make
a statement at 1430 GMT to the lower House of Commons amid
continued questions over the affair.


The row has caused disquiet among the governing Labour Party
ranks and the armed forces, while the leader of the main
opposition Conservative Party, David Cameron, said Browne needs
to justify his handling of the affair or quit.


Cameron told BBC television Sunday that Browne needs to pass two
"tests" or risk losing his post: give a full explanation of how
the mistake was made and demonstrate whether he still had the
confidence of the armed forces.


"If he can pass those two tests, then he keeps his job. If he
fails, then I think he has to go," Cameron said.


"They were putting first the importance of a good headline, a
good bit of PR (public relations) today, but they were putting at
risk the long-term reputation of our armed forces," he added.


Iran seized the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines
in the northern Gulf on March 23 for illegally entering the
country's territorial waters.


Some of the group were shown on Iranian television making
apparent confessions about their "mistake". They were released
two weeks later in what Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
said was an Easter "gift" to Britain.


But after their return, two of the group -- the only woman,
Leading Seaman Faye Turney, and Operator Maintainer Arthur
Batchelor -- sold their stories to newspapers and a television
outlet. Turney received a reported six-figure sum.


The furore that followed saw criticism from relatives of British
soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and military figures, who
all said the decision tarnished the image of the armed forces.


Britain's Home Secretary John Reid backed Browne, who succeeded
him in the post last May, but acknowledged that his colleague's
job was "on the line."


"He's coming to Parliament the way you should do. He's shown
courage and character and I think Parliament will accept that
that is the way to address this," Reid told Sky News television
on Sunday.


Browne gave his approval for the mariners to sell their stories
but last week said it was a mistake. Prime Minister Tony Blair,
who has distanced himself from the affair, has said the decision
was "not a good idea."


On Blair's own website, a petition calling for the "naming and
sacking" of whoever authorised the personnel to sell their
stories had nearly 4,500 signatures.

