

Ireland's win over fellow giantkillers Bangladesh has proved they
belong in the World Cup, said captain Trent Johnston.


Ireland, who qualified for the World Cup by finishing runners-up
in the ICC Trophy in 2005, were regarded as minnows whose
presence here among the top nations was scoffed at in some
quarters.


However, they silenced the critics by dumping Pakistan out in the
first round with a shock three-wicket win before playing a tied
game against Zimbabwe to unexpectedly qualify for the second
round Super Eights.


"People are entitled to their opinions but that sort of thing
plays a large part in giving us motivation to do something
special which we did," said Johnston after his team's 74-run win
over Bangladesh here on Sunday.


Bangladesh themselves forced their detractors to eat their words
by upstaging India in the first round and then inflicting a
humiliating 67-run defeat on South Africa in the Super Eights.


"People said we shouldn't be in the Super Eights but again it
gave us more motivation. We took those comments on board and it
was like a mini World Cup for us against Bangladesh," said the
Australian-born Johnston.


With Sunday's win Ireland have also notched a place in the ICC
one-day rankings. They moved into 12th place after meeting the
condition of beating two Test sides.


After the Super Eights have finished they will enter the rankings
which are topped by world champions Australia and which feature
Kenya, who were knocked out in the first round in the World Cup,
in 11th spot.


"It's a great achievement. If you look through the history books
then you will see Sri Lanka were introduced to one-day cricket in
the early 1980s and they won the World Cup 10-15 years later.
They turned one-day cricket on its head," said Johnston.


"Bangladesh beat Australia in 2005 and have beaten South Africa
here. Kenya made it to the semis in the last World Cup, so we had
to prove a point and turn around Friday's disappointment," added
Johnston of a nine-wicket mauling from Australia.


"We set ourselves some serious goals against Bangladesh and the
first was to win the toss which I did, and then see off the new
ball," said Johnston whose openers laid the foundation of their
243-7 total with a stand of 92.


The good work of William Porterfield (85) and Jeremy Bray (31)
was further boosted by Kevin O'Brien (48) and Johnston (30).


They then bowled Bangladesh out for 169 in the 42nd over.


"We have a pretty big game against Sri Lanka on Wednesday. That
will be the last game for (coach) Adrian Birrell, and it would be
fitting way for us to send him off by putting on another display
like this."


Birrell, who leaves the job after the World Cup, said he was
proud of his team.


"We have got a great squad of players and there is a wonderful
team spirit," said South Africa-born Birrell.


"Five years ago we were ranked below Denmark and now we are
ranked above all the Associates and that is very satisfying.


"I am very proud of the five years I have spent with Ireland and
it has been a great experience. They made me feel as one of their
own."


Once the World Cup is finished, Birrell will be succeeded by
former West Indies Test player Phil Simmons

