

Alex Ferguson admits he would be sorry to see the back of arch-
rival Jose Mourinho despite the two managers' recent war of
words.


Mourinho's future has been thrown into doubt at Chelsea following
the London club's exit from the Champions League and failure to
keep track with Ferguson's Manchester United in the Premiership
title race.


Failure to beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium 24 hours after
United beat neighbours City in the Manchester derby will bring an
end to Chelsea's two-year reign of champions ahead of Ferguson's
side's visit to face Mourinho and his players on May 9.


Chelsea's recent slips have been accompanied by a growing number
of Mourinho outbursts that prompted Ferguson to hit back angrily
in response to the Portuguese's claim that United were being
favoured by the football authorities and referees.


Then the Scot delivered an even stronger rebuke when his opposite
number indulged in a verbal spat with United winger Cristiano
Ronaldo.


Ferguson is convinced Mourinho's job is safe and while he wants
to draw a line under the current row, he admits that the Chelsea
manager's public mutterings bring an added dimension to the
battle for supremacy in the Premiership.


"I think that you should always leave it to the players to settle
things," Ferguson said. "But sometimes with Jose there is a
continual dialogue that you quite enjoy having a wee go back.
Maybe it adds more to the actual game.


"Sometmes we can get to intense about matches and get too focused
on the game itself. He maybe brings another agenda which you can
join in if you want to or you can sit back and admire what he has
got to say.


And he added: "I don't pay attention to the talk about Jose's
future. I don't think there is a great substance to these
reports. I think he will be there next year."


Ferguson insists he will be happy to enjoy a post-match drink
with Mourinho at Stamford Bridge no matter what the outcome and
believes that the challenge from Chelsea will be even stronger
next season - although he warned a repeat of the big money deals
of the past will be no guarantee of success.


"I don't know what they will do this summer but I am sure they
will buy three or four players like they have every year. And
they have not been short on paying out incredible sums of money.
So I don't know what they will do but I am sure with the money
they have behind them they will not be left short in that
respect.


"I think it's been proved time and time again that buying big
doesn't always work. Bbut if you are buying real quality players
then you expect to get success."

