

British energy giant BP is hoping new chief executive Tony
Hayward will herald a brighter future after a disastrous week
which saw his predecessor dramatically resign after lying in
court.


Widely-respected business heavyweight John Browne, who
transformed BP into the world's third-largest energy group, quit
as chief executive last Tuesday after revelations that he lied to
a High Court judge over how he had met his gay partner of four
years.


Hayward, 50, was thrust into the limelight three months before he
was due to take the top job, where he will face key decisions
about the operational and safety problems that have plagued BP in
recent years.


"The challenge for Mr Hayward is how to deliver growth at a time
when BP's production is set to be broadly flat, while costs are
rising," the Financial Times said in an editorial.


"He has said repeatedly that his priority is to ensure safe and
reliable operations, so BP is not hit by any more disasters like
the Texas City refinery explosion in 2005, which killed 15
people," the business daily added.


Days after Browne's shock resignation, a US lawyer said he still
wanted to question him over BP's safety record in the United
States.


Brent Coon, an American lawyer representing BP workers injured in
Texas blast, said it was too early to tell if Hayward would
settle hundreds of legal suits related to the explosion.


A BP spokesman said that Hayward -- formerly head of exploration
and production -- had been "de facto" chief executive since mid-
April and has been shadowing Browne closely for the past four
months.


"Tony has been head of the big powerhouse in BP, which is our
exploration and production business, and he has been running that
for a number of years and has been on the board for a number of
years," the spokesman said.


"He knows exactly what's going on, what the group strategy is,
what the issues are that need to be addressed, and is in an
excellent position to take over the reins straight away."


Browne's largely successful 12-year reign at BP witnessed a five-
fold increase in the company's market capitalisation to 104.6
billion pounds, while recent profits gushed on the back of record
high crude oil prices.


But towards the end of his leadership, he faced the fallout from
the devastating Texas City blast, which raised doubts about
safety at all the group's US facilities.


The horrific disaster, the worst US industrial accident since
1990, was caused by "safety deficiencies," a US government probe
concluded earlier this year.


Last year, meanwhile, BP was forced into a partial shutdown of
its 400,000-barrel per day Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska following
a leak in poorly maintained pipelines.


The leak damaged the clean, environmentally conscious image that
the group had cultivated for several years, and caused crude oil
prices to spike higher.


Separately, BP is also facing probes into its trading of gasoline
and propane in the United States.


Meanwhile, Hayward's previous role in exploration and production
has raised questions because BP is currently struggling to
reverse a slide in its energy output.


Recently it reported the seventh successive fall in quarterly
output, alongside a 17-percent drop in first-quarter net
earnings, despite strong oil prices.


Browne was due to be replaced by Hayward on August 1 -- but
following recent developments his appointment became immediate.


Oilman Browne, 59, resigned after a British newspaper group won a
legal battle to publish details of his relationship with another
man.


In his resignation statement, Browne revealed that in initial
court statements, he had lied about how he met Canadian Jeff
Chevalier, his former partner. He had also retracted and
corrected the mistake.


According to British newspaper reports, Browne had met Chevalier
on a gay escorting website -- but he initially claimed that they
had met in a leafy London park.


British media have also reported that Browne may now face a
charge of perjury, and possibly jail, for lying.


Britain's BP is the third largest energy company in terms of
stock market capitalisation, behind number one and US behemoth
Exxon Mobil, and Anglo-Dutch peer Royal Dutch Shell.

