

Burkina Faso polling stations opened on Sunday for legislative
elections expected to reinforce the ruling party's grip on power.


Balloting began at 0600 GMT as scheduled in Ouagadougou, where a
few voters lined up in front of some of the city's polling
stations, according to an AFP reporter.


The election in Africa's fourth most poverty-stricken country is
set to be a litmus test for President Blaise Compaore's ruling
Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) which took 57 seats in
the 2002 vote, a huge slash from its previous huge 104-seat
majority.


Although the CDP holds 57 seats against the opposition's 54 in
the national assembly, Compaore's easy win in the 2005
presidential election coupled with expected low voter turnout may
work in his favour.


More than 4.4 million eligible voters are to choose from 3,748
candidates fielded by 47 parties for a new set of 111 lawmakers
for a fresh five-year term.


The independent electoral commission has set up 12,600 polling
stations across the country that are set to remain open until
6:00 pm (1800 GMT).


The opposition made big strides into parliament in 2002, thanks
to a system of proportional representation introduced then.


The holding of the elections at the start of an agricultural
season has heightened expectations that the country in which 80
percent of the population live off the land could see low turnout
at the polls.


A 49 percent participation rate in local government elections
last year gave the CDP 60 percent of the seats.


During the campaign the opposition has attacked Compaore's "bad
governance" and the rising poverty rate fuelled by low cotton
prices on the international market. They have also lambasted the
growing culture of impunity and insecurity within the country.


The ruling party has countered saying it needs more
representation in parliament so it can implement its programmes
in the battle against food insecurity and over 70 percent
illiteracy rates.


The CDP has also promised to boost health care and standards
despite a record meningitis epidemic which has claimed over 1,600
lives since the start of the year.


Burkina Faso, with its 13.7 million inhabitants, is ranked 174
out of 177 countries in terms of the United Nations human
development index.


Complete preliminary results are not expected before May 12.

