

Pius Soares sits idly under a tree in a refugee camp with his
friends. Like thousands of East Timorese waiting to return home
after last year's deadly violence, he has time on his hands.


How he uses that time does not extend, however, to attending the
political rallies staged not far from the camp in Dili as East
Timor's two presidential candidates slug it out ahead of
Wednesday's election.


"It is more important for us to look for food," the 34-year-old
said.


"All we want is that security is re-established by the new
president, so we can all return to our homes."


His friend Carlito agreed, adding he was afraid to attend the
rallies held by the powerful Fretilin party in case they turned
violent.


"Not only are we not making any money (by living in the camps),
but we also risk dying in vain (by attending)," said Carlito, who
gave only one name.


Apathy is running high in the troubled nation ahead of the runoff
vote for the presidency, the first since East Timor won
independence in 2002 after 24 years of Indonesian occupation.


Colourful posters and banners are plastered all over the capital
promoting Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta, the current prime
minister, and his Fretilin rival Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres.


But their rallies are failing to draw large crowds.


"For many, especially in the regions, it is a lack of information
about the second round," said Joao Mariano Saldanha, head of the
Timor Institute for Development Studies.


"For others it is simply the fact that both candidates are
already in the government but have so far failed to take the
country out of turmoil."


Just 500 people turned up for a Guterres rally in a field in the
capital Saturday, mostly supporters of Fretilin, the resistance
movement that fought for independence from Portugal and later
Indonesia.


"For Dili, this is nothing," EU observer Javier Pomes Ruiz said.


About 300 people began to gather Sunday on a football field in
Dili to hear Ramos-Horta speak. Minibuses with supporters using
loudspeakers drove through streets trying to drum up attendance.


Pomes Ruiz said the size of the rallies was unlikely to be
reflected at the ballot box come polling day.


"Most people already made up their minds in the first election,"
he said of the April 9 poll when thousands queued for hours to
cast their votes.


Guterres and Ramos-Horta are contesting the runoff because
neither won a majority in that first round vote.


Tension has been simmering in the country since ethnic violence
erupted in May last year, killing 37 people and forcing 150,000
to flee their homes.


Several thousand foreign peacekeepers were brought in to restore
calm and remain on alert amid fears of unrest.


Soares said that despite his disinterest in the campaign, he
would vote on Wednesday in the hope the new president restored
security.


He and his family of six have been too scared to return home to
Audian, a volatile area of Dili since the violence.


Carlito, who like most other refugees has been unable to work
since fleeing to the camp, said job creation was also essential.


Asked who they would vote for, they replied in unison: "It's a
secret."


Across town at another refugee camp, Anicetto and his friends
played cards under the shade of a tarpaulin.


They have also refused to attend rallies or listen to the
speeches.


"Why should we go to the campaign rallies only to listen to them
insulting each other?" asked Anicetto to nods of approval from
fellow players.


But they too will cast their votes. "I hope, whoever wins, that
he will be a good driver in steering this nation," one said.
"Like a car, of course the other components count, like the
wheel, the engine and the brakes, but if the driver is not good
and cannot fix them, then it is futile."

