

Voters in Africa's leading producer of cotton, Burkina Faso, go
to the polls on Sunday for legislative elections expected to
reinforce the ruling party's grip on power.


The election in Africa's fourth most poverty-stricken country is
set to be litmus test for President Blaise Compaore's ruling
Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) which took 57 in the
2002 vote, a huge slash from its previous huge 104-seat majority.


Although the CDP holds 57 against the opposition's 54 in the
national assembly, Compaore's easy win in the 2005 presidential
election coupled with expected low voter turnout may work in his
favour.


More than 4.4 million eligible voters are to choose from 3,748
candidates fielded by 47 parties for a new set of 111 lawmakers
for a fresh five-year term.


The opposition made big strides into parliament in 2002, thanks
to a system of proportional representation introduced then.


The holding of the elections at the start of an agricultural
season has heightened expectations that the country in which 80
percent of the population live off the land could see low turnout
at the polls.


"It is important that the voters come out en masse to block the
CDP and avoid the disappearance of the small parties in the
assembly," said an opposition candidate Laurent Yameogo.


A 49 percent participation rate in 2006 local government
elections gave the CDP 60 percent of the seats.


During the campaign the opposition has attacked Compaore's "bad
governance" and the rising poverty rate fuelled by low cotton
prices on the international market. They have also lambasted the
growing culture of impunity and insecurity within the country.


The ruling party has countered saying it needs more
representation in parliament so it can implement its programmes
in the battle against food insecurity and over 70 percent
illiteracy rates.


The CDP has also promised to boost health care and standards
despite a record meningitis epidemic which has claimed over 1,600
lives since the start of the year.


Burkina Faso is ranked 174 out of 177 countries in terms of the
United Nations human development index.


The independent electoral commission has set up 12,600 polling
stations across the country which should open for 12 hours from 6
am (0600 GMT) on Sunday.


Complete preliminary results are not expected before May 12.

