

Fifteen years of multiparty democracy in Mali has failed to
galvanise voters in the poverty-stricken west African nation, who
enjoy the dubious honour of being the world's most ballot-shy
electorate.


Last week's presidential election garnered a turnout of around 36
percent -- actually a comparatively high figure given Mali's past
record.


The Swedish-based democracy advocacy group, the International
Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA), places
Mali firmly at the bottom of a ladder of 172 countries ranked in
terms of poll participation.


Average turnout in all elections was just 21.7 percent, according
to the IDEA table, putting it below Egypt and Djibouti.


Since the introduction of multiparty democracy in the early
1990s, Mali has never managed to break though the 50 percent
turnout barrier for any poll.


Things started off promisingly enough when a 1992 constitutional
referendum -- the first poll organised since the fall of military
dictator Moussa Traore -- drew 43.5 percent of registered voters.


But in the presidential election just months later, that figure
plunged to 25 percent, where it remained for the 1997
presidential poll.


Things improved slightly for the 2002 election, with turnouts of
38 and 30 percent in the two rounds of voting.


Mamadou Samake, a professor in political sociology at the
University of Bamako, offered two reasons for the trend -- one
personal and one technical.


"Sociologically, Malians are not interested in politics," Samake
said.


"This country is founded on trade and 80 percent of the
population live on informal activity, which is not really subject
to political evolutions," he said.


"Each one is concerned about their survival, irrespective of
who's the president."


At the same time, Samake stressed that many Malians were simply
unaware that they were eligible to vote.


"Mali automatically registers all voters of 18 years or older.
However, many do not even know that they are registered," he
said.


"Further, this roll is slightly inflated because of double
registrations of voters in censuses," he said, explaining that
some individuals have been listed more than once.


Moreover, the names of voters who have died are not always
deleted.


A senior official in the elections directorate said the high
abstention rate was due to a "lack of interest" and the fact that
the results are, in many voters' minds, "known in advance."


He also pointed to the large number of people who live miles from
polling stations in this vast and arid country sitting on the
edge of the Sahara desert.


"The numbers of polling stations were reviewed upwards, but was
not very rationally done. Some people live far away from polling
stations," he said.


To improve the low turnout problem, Samake suggested scrapping
the automatic registration system for a voluntary one, "because
somebody who willingly registers is more likely to vote."


"Malians are not aware that the ballot box is a weapon to change
things," he added.

