

Over 300 senior drug law enforcement officials from 89 countries
will meet in Madrid for a three-day conference beginning Tuesday
to share intelligence and devise strategies for stopping the
global narcotics trade.


It is the first time that the International Drug Enforcement
Conference, which has been organised every year since 1983 by the
US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), will be held in Europe.


All previous gatherings have been held in countries in North and
South America.


The annual conference allows officials in different nations who
work together against drug trafficking rings to meet face-to-face
and strengthen ties, said Washington-based DEA spokesman Steve
Robertson.


"This is a global problem which needs an international effort to
stop it," he told AFP.


The use of the Internet by drug traffickers, the emergence of new
markets for drugs in Africa and police use of judicial wiretaps
are some of the topics scheduled to be discussed at closed-door
sessions at the conference.


The director of the United Nations office on drugs and crime,
Antonio Maria Costa, and the president of the International
Association of Chiefs of Police, Joseph Carter, are among those
selected to deliver presentations.


The conference comes as Europe has seen an increased flow of
drugs from South America in recent years.


Roughly 80 percent of cocaine from Latin America that was
destined for markets outside of the United States in 2005 was
bound for Europe, according to DEA estimates.


Spain, with its historic and linguistic links to South America,
is the main gateway for cocaine entering the continent.


Spanish authorities seized an average of 39 tonnes of cocaine,
mainly from Colombia, annually between 2001 and 2005, the most of
any European country, according to DEA figures.


"Spain is at the frontline of the anti-narcotics fight in
Europe," DEA director of operations Michael Braun said during his
testimony before the US Congress in September 2006.


US authorities believe the same Colombian rings that smuggle
cocaine into the United States are also responsible for bringing
the narcotic into Europe.


Colombian trafficking groups are more active in Spain that in any
other European country, according to the DEA.


"Therefore it is vitally important that we coordinate with our
European counterparts regarding illicit drugs. This is a threat
that affects not only the US but also the entire international
community," Braun told Congress.


Spain and the United States agreed to boost their cooperation
against drugs trafficking during a visit to Washington last year
by Spanish Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba.


The two nations agreed at the time to strengthen efforts against
the laundering of money obtained through drugs trafficking and to
set up joint anti-narcotics teams.


Last year the International Drug Enforcement Conference was held
in Montreal, Canada. It is scheduled to take place in Turkey next
year.

