

Global warming threatens to wreak economic havoc across the
Mediterranean basin, warned scientists from 62 research
institutes who have banded together to study the regional
consequences of climate change and propose ways to adapt.


Increasing temperatures over the coming decades will likely
provoke water shortages, crippling heat waves and extreme
weather, the experts from Europe, northern Africa and the Middle
East said at their inaugural gathering last week in Bologna,
Italy.


"The Mediterranean is especially vulnerable, and faces the threat
of large-scale human migration and the disruption of local
economies," geophysicist Antonio Navarra, who spearheaded the
initiative and heads Italy's National Institute of Geophysics and
Volcanology, told AFP.


"We are looking at major impacts that could put tremendous stress
on agriculture, water management, energy production and tourism."


A major report released Friday in Bangkok by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the United
Nations' top authority on the global warming, outlined ways to
mitigate the greenhouse gases -- especially carbon dioxide --
generated by human activity that drive up temperatures.


IPCC reports issued in February and April assessing climate
change trends and impacts confirmed that the Mediterranean basin
would be hit especially hard by mounting temperatures, which are
predicted to rise globally by 1.8 to 4.0 C (3.2 to 7.2 F) by the
end of the century.


Navarra's European Union-funded initiative -- dubbed CIRCE,
Climate Change and Impact Research: the Mediterranean Environment
-- seeks to fill a gap in climate research, which has tended to
be either global or very local, he said.


"The demand for this kind of regional study is very high --
people want to know what will happen in their corner of the
world," he said. "It is also challenging from a scientific point
of view."


The project is co-directed by Laurence Tubiana, who also heads
France's Institute for Sustainable Development and International
Relations.


CIRCE differs from the IPCC's massive review, carried out every
five years, in two important respects: it will produce new
studies rather than simply summarizing existing scientific
knowledge, and it will work directly with the "stakeholders" --
those affected on the local level -- in searching for the best
adaptation solutions.


It may also serve as a model for other regions, Tubiana
suggested.


Participants at the Bologna meeting, which set the agenda for the
four-year project, emphasised that the impacts of global warming
were already at hand. "These problems are not going to go away,
they are only going to get worse," commented Thomas Downing, a
professor at Oxford University and the Director of the Oxford
branch of the Stockholm Environment Institute, a non-governmental
organisation. "This is no theoretical exercise in cost-benefit
analysis."


Downing cited the impact of rising seas on land use the Egyptian
city of Alexandria, one of a dozen case studies targeted in the
CIRCE project. By working directly with local officials and
engineers, the scientists seek to identify the best strategies
for adapting.


"We hope to avoid jumping to the idea of dikes and sea walls," he
added, pointing to a growing inclination by worried policy makers
to "climate-proof" everything. "We know that will not work in the
long run."


The Nile River delta, Venice and the Tunisian island of Jerba,
which depends heaving on tourism, are also threatened by rising
seas.


Looking at the potential economic impacts, Navarra points out
that extreme water stress and scorching summers could discourage
many of the 200 million tourists who traditionally flock to the
Mediterranean each year. "Tourism is one of the most water
demanding industries there is," he said.


Add smelly and potentially toxic algae blooms at seaside resorts
into the mix, along with increased energy costs for air
conditioning, and the picture begins to look grim.


"Any single impact would probably be manageable, but when you add
them all up" things get more complicated, Downing said.


The IPCC report on impacts said the summer water flows in
southern Europe could be reduced by up to 80 percent by 2070, and
that hydropower is expected to drop by 20 to 50 percent all
around the Mediterranean.


"Only a few governments and institutions have systematically and
critically examined a portfolio of measures" to cope with climate
change," the report concluded.

