

Insurgents attacked an Iraqi police station in Samarra north of
Baghdad on Sunday with a car bomb and small arms fire, killing
six members of the force, local police said.


A car bomb rammed the gates of the building and exploded, killing
local police chief Colonel Jalil al-Dulaimi and five of his men
and wounding eight others, said police Captain Ahmed Ali.


"The terrorists opened fire on us -- it was really heavy and it
came from all directions," said police Lieutenant Arkan Ali, as
he lay in the shade at a nearby US base after being treated for a
wound in his leg.


"Then there was a car bomb -- a huge explosion right next to us,
and then six mortars," he added.


US soldiers at the base responded to the attack and reported
killing several insurgents, while two soldiers sustained minor
wounds, according to an AFP correspondent in the camp.


"Just as we began rolling out of the gate to go to BP three (one
of the checkpoints), that's when the VBIED went off," said
Sergeant First Class David Chavez using the abbreviation for a
car bomb. "It looked like a big dirt mushroom cloud."


A dozen seriously wounded Iraqi policemen were evacuated by
helicopter to US medical facilities.


The attack began with volleys of gunfire directed at the base at
9:00 am, followed 15 minutes later by the explosion of the
massive car bomb.


One US armoured Humvee that pursued the attackers was hit by a
rocket-propelled grenade, which tore off part of an officer's
calf, while a second reported being attacked by an insurgent
wearing a suicide vest.


"He ran behind a telephone pole, so we crashed into it. Then he
reached down and we thought he was pulling out a grenade but then
we saw the suicide vest and he blew himself up right in front of
us," said Chavez.


US forces reported pursuing insurgents as they fled the scene to
the outskirts of town, killing several.


The well coordinated assault is the third attack in the last four
days on police stations in Sunni areas around the capital as
insurgents look to dismantle security forces recruited from the
same tribal elements from which they draw their strength.


On Saturday, 16 police recruits from the rural areas around Abu
Ghraib were killed when a suicide bomber detonated his vest at a
army recruiting base west of Baghdad.


On Thursday, three police stations and coalition outposts were
attacked simultaneously by gunfire and car bombs, resulting in
the deaths of five civilians and the disappearance of one police
officer, farther to the west in Al-Anbar province.

