

Queen Elizabeth II fulfilled her life-long dream of attending
America's premier horse race on Saturday as she joined a star-
filled crowd at the Kentucky Derby.


The queen watched the race from a balcony in a private suite
along with her husband, Prince Philip, as Street Sense, the 9/2
favorite, fell to 19th place before roaring back to win the 133rd
running of the Kentucky Derby.


Philip and Elizabeth, wearing a lime-green coat with a matching
silk dress with a small floral print and a lime-green hat with a
fuchsia trim, arrived two hours before the marquee 10th race,
which carried a two million dollar purse.


Before the race, the queen took a peak at the 14-karat gold Derby
trophy, remarking that former US ambassador to London William
Farish, a thoroughbred breeder who accompanied the royal couple
to Churchill Downs, had yet to win the Kentucky Derby, the first
leg of thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown.


"She laughed and said, 'He hasn't had a winner yet,'" said Jay
Ferguson, the trophy's keeper.


Elizabeth noticed the upside down horseshoe engraved on the front
of the trophy.


"She said, 'It keeps the luck in,' and that's right," Ferguson
said. "She seemed to be enjoying herself."


Although Farish was seen placing a bet, it was unknown if it was
for the queen.


The stands were already filled, race fans sipped their
traditional bourbon, sugar, ice and mint juleps and made their
bets on early races Saturday afternoon before the British
sovereign's arrival.


Sports and film stars were among the crowd of about 156,635
people, the third largest in Derby history, including basketball
legend Michael Jordan, wearing a white suit, and former Playboy
Playmate Jenny McCarthy, in an extravagant hat.


The queen's attendance was a proud first for the track, located
outside of Louisville.


"Queen Elizabeth is certainly the most prestigious guest we've
entertained in the modern-day history of the Kentucky Derby,"
track president Steve Sexton said.


Dressed as usual to the nines for the event, the crowd included a
couple dressed as Kentucky's legendary Colonel Harlan Sanders --
of Kentucky Fried Chicken fame -- and Elizabeth herself, in a
sparkling crown.


The real queen, 81, and husband Prince Philip, 85, spent Friday
night at the Land's End Farm in Kentucky's bluegrass horse-
raising region near Lexington, hosted by Farish.


On Thursday, Elizabeth and Philip toured Jamestown, Virginia,
celebrating its 400th anniversary as the first permanent English
settlement in the Americas, where she lauded the "deep and
enduring" ties that bind Britain and the United States.


They later visited the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg, the second- oldest US university founded by royal
charter in 1693.


Prince Philip also made a trip to nearby Norfolk to see the
battleship USS Wisconsin, which saw action in the first Gulf War.


At the Louisville race course, workers warmed up the skills
learned in special royal etiquette lessons while chefs began
preparing a meal of special native Kentucky ingredients.


The queen arrived well into the 12-race program for a tour of the
Churchill Downs Derby museum before settling in for the two
minutes of sheer excitement of the main race.


After the race, she was to spend the rest of the weekend on a
private visit with the Farish family, before heading to
Washington for a formal state dinner at the White House with
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush.


It will be the first white-tie event at the White House during
Bush's six years as president.


Monday morning they will be greeted by hundreds of members of the
cabinet and Congress at a ceremony on the White House lawn, where
there will be a 21-gun salute.


The next day the queen and Laura Bush will visit the Children's
National Medical Center in Washington.

