

Australian Casey Stoner powered his Ducati to victory in the
Grand Prix of China here Sunday, in a hotly contested duel with
seven-time world champion Valentino Rossi.


The Australian swept round the 5.3-kilometre Shanghai circuit in
44m 12.891secs, with Italy's Rossi 3.036 seconds off the pace on
his Yamaha.


American John Hopkins finished third on a Suzuki for his first
podium.


Stoner, the winner here in the 250cc class two years ago, started
from fourth but took the lead on the first lap setting the stage
for a battle with the Italian master who started on pole.


"It was a really difficult race today and with pressure from
Valentino on the rear I made a couple of small mistakes," Stoner
said.


"I think both of us were pushing quite hard."


Under warm hazy sunshine and 28,000 fans the two duelled from the
opening seconds with Rossi squeezing past on corners time and
again only for Stoner and his more powerful bike to roar past on
the circuit's long straights.


With seven laps remaining a late-braking Rossi overshot the first
corner, taking a trip through the grass and dropping to third
behind Hopkins and sealing Stoner's victory.


Rossi eventually caught Hopkins in the race's closing moments.


"I tried to attack him because the braking on my bike was very
good and I was quite strong," the 28-year-old Italian told
reporters.


"I tried again on the straight but I went too far and I had to
brake too deeply and probably if I had not made this mistake I
would have won."


"The championship is long and I will come back in Europe," he
added.


Stoner and Ducati have shown top form early this season, chalking
up two wins in three races prior to Shanghai and many expected
them to win here despite Rossi's record setting lap on Saturday.


But the legendary Rossi, who is nicknamed "The Doctor," made it
clear he would be in the hunt for the trophy when he smashed the
circuit record set by Spaniard Dani Pedrosa last year by 1.6
seconds.


The victory in Shanghai now gives Kuri-Kuri born Stoner 86 points
in the championships table, Rossi 71, and Spaniard Dani Pedrosa,
who finished fourth here, on 41, as the racers head to France in
two weeks time.


Meanwhile, Hopkins jumped to fifth place in standings with 39
points, as the Californian has show increasingly good form in the
2007 season, finishing fourth in Qatar and sixth in Turkey two
weeks ago.


"It's really good to be up here," said Hopkins, who started from
second after showing blistering pace all weekend on the circuit.

