

In just 10 years, the Russian ruble has undergone such a
remarkable transformation that its popularity now threatens the
country's blossoming exporters, analysts say.


From worthless during the financial crises of the 1990s, the now
freely-floating currency has become so strong that it risks
making Russian goods more expensive in international markets.


"It's completely chalk and cheese. It's a totally different
situation from 10 years ago. It's a different currency," said
analyst Al Breach, head of research at investment bank UBS in
Moscow.


The ruble is buoyant because of high oil prices and the Russian
government's "extraordinarily strong" budget controls, meaning
its value could be underestimated by up to "35 to 40 percent," he
added.


A total contrast to the situation 10 years ago that began with
1998's Asian crisis. The collapse of Asian tiger economies caused
Russia to default on its debt and drastically devalue the ruble.


Today, Russia has a healthy budget surplus and the third-highest
currency reserves in the world -- worth 360 million dollars.
Relative to the size of its economy, Russia ranks first for
currency reserves.


Last year, the country finally lifted the ruble's international
exchange restrictions, and so rendered the ruble a freely
convertible currency.


For Chris Weafer, chief strategist for Alfa Bank in Moscow, now
that brokers have easy access to rubles, it is becoming "the new
petro-currency" -- at the dollar's expense.


It's no coincidence that Lukoil, Russia's biggest oil producer,
indicated on April 24 that it was considering changing its
internal accounting currency from dollars to euros or rubles.


For Al Breach, "Russian individuals and Russian companies are
starting to swap because they understand it's a better currency
to be in full-stop.


"We're going to see more individual and international investors
saving in rubles from now on," he added.


But the ruble's new-found vigour is not good news for everyone in
Russia -- especially exporters, who can expect to see the foreign
price of their products climb.


The issue has attracted President Putin's attention, as he pushed
his government in early April to pay "close attention" to the
ruble's rise, and avoid "undermining the positive dynamic in
growth markets."


Anton Stroutchenevski, an analyst at Troika investment bank,
underlines the delicate balance necessary.


The authorities and the Russian central bank use the ruble's
strength as a brake on inflation, which at 9.0 percent in 2006
was still relatively high.


But the Bank of Russia knows that "aggressive further
appreciation would be really dangerous", especially as economic
analysts expect Russia's mammoth trade-surplus (nearly 141
billion dollars in 2006) to fall sharply in the coming years.


As Stroutchenevski sums up the situation, "prudence is of the
essence."


Underlining the change in the fortunes of the Russian ruble,
Breach at UBS said it was now one of the most attractive
currencies in the world for investors.


"If you look around the world at the moment for good value
currencies for investment, the best deals are the ruble, the
Chinese yuan or the Singapore dollar -- they stand out big time
as cheap, appreciable currencies that offer a safe place to keep
your money," he said.

