

A former Iranian nuclear official who was part of a moderate
negotiating team has been charged with spying on Iran's
controversial atomic programme, the semi- official Fars news
agency reported.


Tehran's judiciary has confirmed that Hossein Moussavian is being
held under the auspices of the intelligence ministry at Tehran's
notorious Evin prison after his arrest last week.


But this is the first indication that Moussavian, who served
under reformist president Mohammad Khatami until 2005 and is also
close to ex-president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, has been charged
with espionage.


"He is charged with spying on nuclear issues and therefore his
case is in the hands of the revolutionary court prosecutors," the
agency quoted a source as saying.


"Currently he is in the section of the intelligence ministry in
Evin prison (in Tehran) and the investigation is continuing," the
source added.


"So far, no decision on the bail has been issued and he is still
under arrest."


Hardline Tehran prosecutor Saeed Mortazavi confirmed Saturday
that Moussavian was in custody but refused to specify the
allegations against him "until the investigations are complete."


Foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini declined to
comment Sunday on whether he had been charged with spying. "We
should not blow this out of proportion until the investigation is
over."


Moussavian played a central role in talks that saw Iran strike a
deal with Europe under which it suspended its uranium enrichment
activities, a halt which was reversed when President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad came to power.


The team under then top national security official Hassan Rowhani
was considered close to the centrist Rafsanjani, who was thrashed
by Ahmadinejad in 2005 presidential elections.


After Ahmadinejad came to power, Rafsanjani loyalists like
Rowhani were removed and replaced with more hardline officials
under the new national security chief Ali Larijani, a
conservative ex-television boss.


Since leaving the negotiating team, Moussavian has kept a
relatively low profile, rarely making comments on the nuclear
programme in public although he has urged moderation and
flexibility in the nuclear standoff.


In a seperate case, an unnamed individual who was working for
parliament's research centre and accused of spying for the
outlawed Iranian opposition has been jailed for three years by a
court of first instance, according to Fars.


It said that the accused would now appeal the verdict.

