

Sir Alex Ferguson has the Premiership title in his sights but the
Manchester United manager is more concerned about his next round
of golf.


United will be crowned champions if Chelsea fail to win at
Arsenal on Sunday, so it would have been entirely understandable
if Ferguson spent his afternoon watching the match on television.


It has been four long years since Ferguson last got his hands on
the Premiership trophy, but the wait is nearly over after
Cristiano Ronaldo's penalty secured a 1-0 win at Manchester City
that opened up an eight-point gap over second-placed Chelsea.


However, instead of keeping track of a potentially decisive clash
at the Emirates Stadium, the Scot will take his mind off the
title race drama by playing golf.


"I won't be watching the game on TV," Ferguson said. "I was going
to Spain but there has been a problem with the flights, so I will
go for a game of golf instead.


"Hopefully Arsenal will get the result we want tomorrow but if we
have to go to Chelsea to get something on Wednesday, we will look
forward to it."


Ronaldo's spot-kick and a late penalty save from Edwin van der
Sar gave United the win over their bitter local rivals at
Eastlands.


The league leaders went in front in the 34th minute when Ronaldo
scored from the spot after being fouled by Michael Ball.


City hadn't scored a home league goal since New Year's Day, but
they had a glorious chance to end that barren run in the 81st
minute when Ball won a soft penalty after colliding with Wes
Brown.


Darius Vassell took the spot-kick, but his shot struck van der
Sar's legs and deflected to safety.


At the other end of the table, West Ham moved out of the
relegation zone thanks to a match-winning display from Carlos
Tevez, who has been at the centre of a bitter row over his
eligibility to play for the Hammers.


West Ham's relegation rivals are considering legal action against
the Premier League after the London club were only fined rather
than handed a points penalty for playing Tevez even though he was
not registered properly.


So it was inevitable that Tevez would play a major role in his
side's 3-1 win over Bolton at Upton Park. The Argentina striker
opened the scoring with a 10th minute free-kick and added a
second in the 21st minute.


Mark Noble got the third and Gary Speed's second half strike
couldn't stop Alan Curbishley's side edging closer to a great
escape with their sixth win in eight matches.


Curbishley, whose team face Manchester United next week, said:
"It's given us a great opportunity and we've got to grab it.
We've come this far and not to grab it would be devastating. We
couldn't wish to go to a tougher place but we are full of
confidence."


West Ham's victory plunged Wigan into the bottom three after Paul
Jewell's side lost 1-0 against Middlesbrough thanks to Australia
striker Mark Viduka's 29th minute goal at the JJB Stadium.


Clint Dempsey virtually secured Fulham's Premiership status as
his second half goal snatched a vital 1-0 win over Champions
League finalists Liverpool.


Dempsey turned in Liam Rosensior's cross after 69 minutes at
Craven Cottage to give Lawrie Sanchez's side, who had Papa Bouba
Diop sent off in the last minute, their first win in 12 matches.


The American match-winner said: "We have put ourselves in a good
position and hopefully it will be the goal that keeps us up.


"The manager has come in and he is a man on a mission. He wants
to get the job done and we have to believe in him."


Sheffield United missed a chance to confirm their survival as
they slumped to a 3-0 defeat at Aston Villa.


Gabriel Agbonlahor gave Villa the lead in the 25th minute before
goals from Ashley Young and Patrick Berger either side of half-
time.


Mikel Arteta kept Everton on course for a UEFA Cup place as his
second half penalty set up a 3-0 win against Portmouth.


Arteta struck from the spot in the 59th minute, then Joseph Yobo
added a second and Gary Naysmith scored in the last minute to
lift David Moyes's team into fifth place.


Benni McCarthy and Jason Roberts were the goalscorers as
Blackburn won 2-0 at Newcastle.


Already-relegated Watford landed just their fifth league win this
season as goals from Danny Shittu and Marlon King secured a 2-0
success at Reading.

