

Insurgents launched a deadly assault on an Iraqi police station
in Samarra north of Baghdad on Sunday, detonating a  suicide van
bomb at the gates and pouring in a hail of automatic gunfire.


US troops based nearby scrambled to the scene and fought a
running street battle with fleeing attackers armed with rifles
and rocket launchers, one of whom blew himself up with a suicide
vest, soldiers told AFP.


At least 12 Iraqi police were killed in the initial assault,
according to Lieutenant John Johnson of the US army. Captain
Ahmed Ali of Samarra's police said the dead included local police
chief Colonel Jalil al-Dulaimi.


"The terrorists opened fire on us -- it was really heavy and it
came from all directions," said Iraqi police Lieutenant Arkan
Ali, as he lay in the shade at a nearby US base after being
treated for a wound in his leg.


"Then there was a car bomb -- a huge explosion right next to us,
and then six mortars," he added.


A dozen seriously wounded Iraqi policemen were evacuated by
helicopter to US medical facilities.


When the battle erupted, American soldiers from Charlie Company
of the 3rd Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, rolled out of
Camp Olson in armoured Humvees to help their Iraqi allies.


"Just as we began rolling out of the gate ... that's when the
VBIED went off," said Sergeant First Class David Chavez, using
the military abbreviation for a car bomb. "It looked like a big
dirt mushroom cloud."


The attack began with an intense burst of gunfire at 9:00 am,
followed 15 minutes later by the explosion of the massive van
bomb.


US troops were able to watch the blast on video surveillance in
Olson, as thick plumes of black smoke poured out of a mass of
twisted metal.


The American patrols which responded came under fire almost
immediately from the insurgents' powerful DSKH machine guns.


One Humvee that pursued the attackers was hit by a rocket-
propelled grenade, which tore off part of an American officer's
calf, while a second was attacked by an insurgent wearing a
suicide vest.


"When we got to the road we saw a white pickup truck with ammo
crates in the back on its way out of town," said Staff Sergeant
Jason Wheeler.


"We pursued the truck and then someone opened fire on us from the
buildings to the left. We know the city well so we circled around
behind the building. We saw two guys carrying machine guns and
they split in different directions.


"We followed the first one but our turret malfunctioned so we
tried to run him over, but he ran behind a telephone pole, so we
crashed into it. Then he reached down," he said.


"We thought he was pulling out a grenade but then we saw the
suicide vest. He blew himself up right in front of us," he added.


The attacker was ripped apart by the blast -- Wheeler's patrol
brought his leg back to Olson -- but the US troops were safe
inside their Humvee.


The coordinated assault is the third attack in the last four days
on police stations in the belt around Baghdad as insurgents try
to intimidate security forces recruited from the Sunni tribes
from which they draw their strength.


On Saturday, 16 police recruits from the rural areas around Abu
Ghraib were killed when a suicide bomber detonated his vest at a
army recruiting base.


On Thursday in Anbar province, three police stations and
coalition outposts were attacked simultaneously by gunfire and
car bombs, resulting in the deaths of five civilians and the
disappearance of one police officer.

