

Four lightning blows to the head, then death. That's all it takes
for Sok Noeun to walk away from the ring 200 dollars richer and,
perhaps more importantly, his fighting cock relatively unscathed.


"He hit the other bird with his metal spur four times in the
head," the businessman beams as he edges through the scores of
punters crowded around a rough cement fighting ring under a
corrugated metal roof.


"It fell down and died," he says moments after the flurry of
blood and feathers that saw his bird vanquish yet another
challenger.


"I feel pity to see cocks die easily during fighting, but my
cocks never get hurt. They always win," Sok Noeun explains,
caressing his own bird, a stout black and gold rooster with
frantic eyes, its deadly legs with thin metal blades called
"gaffs" tied to them still twitching.


"Honestly, I love my fighting cocks more than my children," he
says, sitting at the edge of some 200 people pressed around the
ring as the odds being called across the killing floor signal
another fight is about to start.


"I believe they helped me win hundreds of dollars today," he
says.


Weekend fight clubs like this makeshift ring on the outskirts of
Phnom Penh have for years been the retreat of men and boys,
mostly farmers, shop owners and low- level civil servants, with a
few dollars to wager and a taste for violent spectacle.


The country's love of cockfighting goes back centuries, and is so
much a part of the Cambodian soul that it has been immortalised
in stone on the walls of one of the kingdom's most famous
temples, the Bayon.


But while the birds are viewed in part as a means to win and lose
money, some aficionados say the recent elevation of cockfighting
into a big money event has transformed a national tradition into
little more than bloodsport for the wealthy.


"Now it has become nothing more than gambling for rich people.
They lose money without regret," says Chuch Phoeurng, a secretary
of state with the ministry of culture.


Sitting in a chair on the edge of the fighting ring, police
officer Seng Yu said: "Most people forget their owns traditions
because they are only thinking about the money.


"The money is going to destroy our traditional game," he frets
quietly as bets change hands and another fight gets underway.


Fights that were once a rarely fatal test of strength between
cherished pets have become brutal gladiator matches that do not
end until one bird is so badly mutilated it can no longer strike
back.


Broken bones, deep slashes, punctured lungs and gouged eyes are
all common injuries suffered as fight organisers rush to pair up
as many birds as possible in order to keep the gamblers happy.


"People don't want to wait too long to see who wins and who loses
-- fast is good for us in order to bet money," says trainer Kim
Kun.


The government is currently drafting legislation to regulate
cockfighting, hoping to bring some order to the sport as well as
make some money from tournament ticket sales, officials say.


"If the (sport) is regulated, it will improve the standard of
living of farmers since they will be able to raise more roosters
and sell them openly at a high price," says Seng Savorn, press
director at the Council of Ministers who also organises
tournaments.


"The government will also earn lots of money from selling
tickets," he adds.


The legislation, which was proposed by Deputy Prime Minister Sok
An, a reputed fight fan who hosts high-end tournaments at his
country home, skirts the issue of gambling.


While cockfighting itself is legal, betting on the matches is
not.


But authorities largely ignore the punters who will place money
on just about anything -- from sporting events to whether rain
will fall on a certain date.


Trainer Kim Kun says that these days it is the betting, with some
wagers in the thousands of dollars, that is driving cockfighting.


"If we don't allow them to bet money, or we limit the amount of
money they can gamble, they won't want to participate," he said.


Growing moral revulsion is also impacting the sport's popularity
among a younger, and arguably more cosmopolitan generation.


"I fear seeing these cocks slashing each other, killing each
other," says Thida, 28, who works with a non-government
organisation.


"We call ourselves Buddhist?" she asks, expressing shock at
watching a televised fight.


But Seng Savorn dismisses concerns over the cruelty of
cockfighting.


"We respect the roosters' rights, and if one bird wins, it
becomes a hero.


"If you view (cockfighting) in a negative way it might seem like
animal torture, but viewed positively it promotes the sport," he
says.

