

Sir Alex Ferguson has slapped an alcohol ban on his players until
after Wednesday's trip to Chelsea, regardless of whether they
have clinched the Premiership trophy by then.


Saturday's 1-0 victory over derby rivals Manchester City at
Eastlands meant Chelsea had to beat Arsenal at the Emirates
Stadium on Sunday to keep the title battle alive.


But after watching Cristiano Ronaldo notch his 23rd goal of the
season with the match-winning penalty on Saturday, Ferguson
informed his players that he did not want any celebrations ahead
of the trip to Stamford Bridge.


The Scot, who cancelled a trip to Spain in favour of spending the
rest of the bank holiday on the golf course, said: "Hopefully
Arsenal can do us a favour now and we can get the result we want.
A draw would be fine.


"If we have to go to Chelsea and get a result then we'll look
forward to it, but we have a great chance (of winning the
title)".


United, meanwhile, will ask the Premier League and the Football
Association to launch an investigation into a crude challenge by
Michael Ball on Ronaldo in the second minute of the game.


Ball waited until referee Rob Styles had turned his back before
stamping on the chest of the Portugal international.


Ferguson was furious that the incident went unpunished and is
keen for the matter to be dealt with this week.


Ronaldo left the field with a stud mark across his stomach and
Ball will now face a trial by video.


If charged with violent conduct and subsequently found guilty,
the former Everton and Rangers defender will face a ban for the
start of next season.


City manager Stuart Pearce said: "People have mentioned this
tackle to me but I've not seen it. These things can happen in
football matches like this one.


"We will review the incident by video and take a decision from
there. I'm also sure the authorities will do what they have to
do."


Provided Pearce remains in charge for next season he will be
desperate to clear- out some of his strikers and make new
signings in the wake of a poor season.


Georgios Samaras, Paul Dickov, Bernardo Corradi and Darius
Vassell could all find themselves surplus to requirements this
summer.


City have set a new club record for the lowest number of home
league goals scored in a season with just ten, including just one
since New Year's Day.


Pearce could be handed a significant transfer kitty should
chairman John Wardle sell the club to a Thai consortium and he
said: "Scoring goals has been our Achilles heel all season. We
haven't had enough cutting edge in attack and this is something
we will have to look at."


Ferguson, meanwhile, has warned Ronaldo that he wants a chance to
win his money back from the bet he lost to him over how many
goals he would score this season.


Ferguson added: "I want my money back so it all depends on what I
set my target at for next season, but he's had a wonderful
campaign."

