

Russia and the West are at odds over a growing number of issues,
from Kosovo to the US missile shield, and the discord may
undermine their cautiously built post-Cold War partnership, NATO
diplomats say.


In an effort to ease bilateral strains, Moscow and Washington
have reached an unusual agreement to have their foreign and
defence ministers meet, particularly to address Russian concerns
about the missile shield.


But the differences go far beyond this one, albeit important,
problem.


Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, a favourite to
replace President Vladimir Putin next year, said Thursday that
Moscow would no longer inform partners when it moves troops
across its territory.


The announcement, the application of a freeze Putin made on the
Soviet-era Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, was the
first concrete move in what are tense and possibly changing
times.


In the past, the West "accepted the rhetoric when Russian leaders
denounced the United States or NATO, but it's not so easy any
more," said a diplomat at the military alliance.


At a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Norway late last month,
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reacting to the
Russian treaty freeze, said it was vital to keep relations
between Moscow and Washington calm.


"We must avoid an escalation," he said.


But a NATO official said "the tone between the (NATO) allies and
Russia has now hardened."


"It seems that we've gone back to times before the NATO-Russia
Council, just as we are getting ready to celebrate its fifth
anniversary in Moscow and Saint Petersburg," he said, in
reference to Moscow's regular talks with NATO.


Indeed problems of political and military nature, which have
simmered almost unnoticed for years, are now bubbling to the
surface.


NATO's willingness to continue expanding eastward -- into former
Soviet republics and satellite states -- or the installation of
US military bases in Bulgaria and Romania last year -- are
perceived by Russia as threats.


The Kremlin, whose rhetoric has hardened as elections approach in
December and March, also sees the moves as contrary to
commitments made by the West as the Soviet Union fell apart.


So Washington's announcement in January that it wanted to extend
its defence shield into Europe -- through 10 missile interceptors
in Poland linked to a radar in the Czech Republic -- only threw
fat on the fire.


US offers to calm Russia's fears about the system, meant to
combat "rogue states" like Iran, by sharing early warning data
and boosting military cooperation have so far borne little fruit.


"For the moment, Moscow has not responded to the offers of
cooperation that the United States made recently, still obviously
hoping to block the project," a NATO diplomat said on condition
of anonymity.


Russia may also go beyond its moratorium on the CFE treaty.


In February, Moscow threatened to withdraw from the Intermediate-
Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF) so that it could resume
production of tactical nuclear missiles.


"Russia seems to want to try to end the relationship that it
built up with the United States in the 1990s and in the most
theatrical way possible," experts at the Paris-based Strategic
Research Foundation said last month.


In this atmosphere of confrontation, some at NATO fear that
Kosovo, where the alliance has some 16,000 troops and whose
ethnic Albanian majority is impatient for independence, could
ultimately pay the price.


"A Russian veto on independence for the Serbian province followed
by the US unilaterally recognising Kosovo (as independent) can no
longer be ruled out," a diplomat warned.


Kosovo's leaders are threatening to break away at the end of the
month as Russia threatens to veto "supervised independence" at
the US Security Council, increasing tensions between the
Albanians and the minority Serbs there.

