

Floyd Mayweather remained undefeated by winning a 12-round split
decision over Oscar de la Hoya Saturday to take the World Boxing
Council super-welterweight title in an epic slugfest of US
rivals.


Two judges scored the fight for Mayweather by 116-112 and
115-113, each giving Mayweather four of the final five rounds,
while the third saw de la Hoya winning 115-113 by taking three of
the final five rounds.


Mayweather, who became a world champion in his fifth different
weight class, improved to 38-0 while de la Hoya, a champion is
six divisions, fell to 38-5.


"It was easy work for me. He was rough and tough. But he couldn't
beat the best," Mayweather said. "I could see the shots coming. I
stayed on the outside all night, boxed and made him miss.


"That's what you call a masterpiece of boxing. He's one of the
best fighters of our era and I showed what I can do to one of the
best fighters of our era."


De la Hoya, who pressed the attack early but tired at the finish,
said he thought he had taken the decision.


"I felt I won. I felt I landed the hard punches, the crisper
punches," de la Hoya said. "Every time I hit him I hurt him. I
was pressing the fight. If I didn't press the fight there would
be no fight."


Mayweather called it the greatest triumph of his career and
declared it would be his farewell, saying, "I'm still retiring.
I've got nothing else to prove."


De la Hoya, who had only one fight in the prior 2 1/2 years, said
he would analyze the fight before deciding whether or not to
retire.


"We'll have to wait and see," de la Hoya said. "I've got to go
back to the drawing board and watch the fight, see how my
movements were see how my timing was, just see how my body
feels."


De la Hoya, 34, made 25 million dollars, while Mayweather, 30,
took home 10 million dollars and a hefty payday might entice a
rematch.


From the start, the fight matched its action-packed build-up as
de la Hoya displayed tenacity and unexpected speed to set the
tempo.


De la Hoya pounded at Mayweather with left hooks to the body in
the early rounds but did little damage, while Mayweather proved
evasive and picked his moments to counter with single punches.


"Everybody counted me out," de la Hoya said. "He's younger than
me. He's fast. But I hurt him with a few punches that I know he
felt."


De la Hoya landed nine lefts to the body in a row at one stage of
round four while Mayweather was against the ropes, but the
challenger began to find his form, taking de la Hoya's best and
answering in kind.


"For some reason it wasn't the night of the jab. Every time I
would throw it, it would snap his head back and I would hurt
him," de la Hoya said. "But for some reason it just wasn't one of
those nights."


Mayweather began setting the rhythm in the sixth round, de la
Hoya evading and countering. In the seventh Mayweather began
landing combinations and smiling, seeing de la Hoya was tiring
and far less aggressive than his flashy early fury.


"He threw a lot of punches that weren't landing. I out-punched
him. I out-boxed him," Mayweather said. "I was having fun in
there. It was a hell of a fight. I told the fans I would give
them a good fight and that's what I did."


Mayweather began landing harder punches in the eighth round and
kept the pace to the end. The final round was a series of
clinches and misses until de la Hoya landed a flurry only to be
smashed by Mayweather in response.


The bell rang ending the fight with the fighters trading a
furious exchange, then embracing each other after a display that
lived up to hopes of exciting interest in the sport from a new
generation of fans.


"As a champion I wanted to stop him," de la Hoya said. "You owe
it to the fans. You owe it to yourself to push yourself more.
That's why I just tried to close the show."


The much-anticipated showdown between Mayweather, considered the
supreme pound- for-pound fighter, and de la Hoya, boxing's most
popular pay-per-view attraction, was expected to rank among the
top moneymaking fights in history.

