

Spain's Supreme Court on Saturday banned hundreds of candidates
from contesting upcoming local elections in the northern Basque
region on the grounds that their party was a front for the
outlawed separatist party Batasuna.


The court ruled that 246 supposedly apolitical "citizen lists"
which bear the generic label "Abertzale Sozialistak" were set up
to serve the interests of Batasuna and should not be allowed to
take part in the May 27 elections, as had been requested by
Spain's prosecutor general.


The court said it based its decision on a law governing political
parties which prevents the succession or continuation of a banned
party.


But the court ruled that another seven lists of independents
which the prosecutor had also asked to be banned from taking part
in the poll would be allowed to stand. The court reached both
decisions unanimously.


Batasuna has been banned since 2003 for its alleged links to the
armed separatist group ETA, whose 38-year-old campaign for an
independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern
France has claimed over 800 lives.


Spain's public prosecutor Candido Conde Pumpido has also asked
the court to  ban 110 lists out of the 256 belonging to the Eusko
Abertzale Akintza-Action Nationalist Basque party (EAE-ANV), a
tiny, near-defunct party which took steps this year to field
candidates for the local polls.


The government suspects the party has been infiltrated by
Batasuna members. The court is expected to give its ruling on
Sunday.


Batasuna won 10 percent of the vote in regional elections in 2001
and 20 percent in 1999 municipal elections.


Batasuna spokesman Arnaldo Otegi said Thursday that banning the
party from the polls would "make it hard" to reach a peaceful
solution to the Basque conflict.


ETA violated a March 2006 ceasefire with a December 30 bombing in
Madrid which killed two people, the first fatalities since May
2003 in an ETA attack.


The bombing also torpedoed months of government attempts to inch
towards talks on a negotiated solution to the conflict.

