

Floyd Mayweather remained undefeated by winning a 12-round split
decision over Oscar de la Hoya Saturday to take the World Boxing
Council super-welterweight title in an epic slugfest of US
rivals.


Two judges scored the fight for Mayweather by 116-112 and
115-113, each giving Mayweather four of the final five rounds,
while the third saw de la Hoya winning 115-113 by taking three of
the final five rounds.


Mayweather, who became a world champion in his fifth different
weight class, improved to 38-0 while de la Hoya, a champion is
six divisions, fell to 38-5.


"It was easy work for me. He was rough and tough. But he couldn't
beat the best," Mayweather said. "I could see the shots coming. I
stayed on the outside all night, boxed and made him miss.


"That's what you call a masterpiece of boxing. He's one of the
best fighters of our era and I showed what I can do to one of the
best fighters of our era."


De la Hoya, who pressed the attack early but tired at the finish,
said he thought he had taken the decision.


"I felt I won. I felt I landed the hard punches, the crisper
punches," de la Hoya said. "Every time I hit him I hurt him. I
was pressing the fight. If I didn't press the fight there would
be no fight."


Mayweather called it the greatest triumph of his career and
declared it would be his farewell, saying, "I'm still retiring.
I've got nothing else to prove."


De la Hoya, who had only one fight in the prior 2 1/2 years, said
he would analyze the fight before deciding whether or not to
retire.


"We'll have to wait and see," de la Hoya said. "I've got to go
back to the drawing board and watch the fight, see how my
movements were see how my timing was, just see how my body
feels."


From the start, the fight matched its action-packed build-up as
de la Hoya displayed tenacity and unexpected speed to set the
tempo.


De la Hoya pounded at Mayweather with left hooks to the body in
the early rounds but did little damage, while Mayweather proved
evasive and picked his moments to counter with single punches.


De la Hoya landed nine lefts to the body in a row at one stage of
round four while Mayweather was against the ropes, but the
challenger began to find his form, taking de la Hoya's best and
answering in kind.


Mayweather began setting the rhythm in the sixth round, de la
Hoya evading and countering. In the seventh Mayweather began
landing combinations and smiling, seeing de la Hoya was tiring
and far less aggressive than his flashy early fury.


Mayweather began landing harder punches in the eighth round and
kept the pace to the end. The final round was a series of
clinches and misses until de la Hoya landed a flurry only to be
smashed by Mayweather in response.


The bell rang ending the fight with the fighters trading a
furious exchange, then embracing each other after a display that
lived up to hopes of exciting interest in the sport from a new
generation of fans.


On the Mexican Cinco de Mayo holiday, raucous loud cheers erupted
when Mexican- American hero de la Hoya entered the arena. Fans
would cheer his name in nearly every round and loudly boo his
loss when the outcome was revealed.


Mayweather's lone appeal to the crowd was a sombrero worn as he
entered the arena.


The much-anticipated showdown between Mayweather, considered the
supreme pound- for-pound fighter, and de la Hoya, boxing's most
popular pay-per-view attraction, was expected to rank among the
top moneymaking fights in history.


A sellout crowd of 16,700, with celebrities abundant at ringside,
produced a record live boxing payout of more than 19 million
dollars with pay-per-view totals expected to surpass 100 million
dollars.


De la Hoya, 34, made 25 million dollars, with his Golden Boy
Promotions also set to receive half of a pay-per-view take from
more than 176 nations. "Pretty Boy Floyd" Mayweather, 30, took
home 10 million dollars.


While both have hinted at retirement, neither is expected to walk
away from a hefty payday if interest is sparked in a rematch or
other fights.

