

Asia hailed a new rising star as South Korea's Kim Kyung-tae
coasted to a strong five-stroke victory in the 600,000-dollar GS
Caltex Maekyung Open Sunday, just five months after turning
professional.


The 20-year-old had trailed by one overnight but steamed past
China's Liang Wen- chong in a stunning final round of five-under-
par 67 at Nam Seoul Country Club to secure his first Asian Tour
win in his second start in the region.


With an 18-under-par winning total of 270, Kim, a double gold
medal winner in the Asian Games in Doha last December before he
turned professional, earned a cheque for 129,000 dollars.


It was his second victory in successive weeks after he won a
domestic event last weekend.


Liang, who had led since the first day, failed to keep up pace on
the back nine and settled for second place with a closing 73.


Korean amateur Danny Lee Jin-myung, just 16 and who lives in New
Zealand, grabbed third place on 279 after closing with a superb
65 while fellow amateur Kim Bi-o, veteran Choi Gwang-soo and Lee
Seung-ho shared fourth place on 282.


A jubilant Kim, who moved up to 12th position on the Asian Tour's
UBS Order of Merit, said: "This is so unexpected. I am so happy.


"On front nine, I didn't play well. My game wasn't on but I put
in a lot of effort on the back nine and putted more aggressively
and it worked out nicely."


It was always a two-horse race between Kim and Liang, who both
turned in 35 for the Chinese star to preserve his overnight
advantage at the turn.


But the local favourite, spurred on by the Nam Seoul crowd, soon
drew level with a birdie on 10.


The momentum then swung dramatically in Kim's favour at the next
hole, the par three 11th, where he took the lead for the first
time by two shots with a birdie while Liang bogeyed.


Kim pressed home his advantage with further birdies on 15, 16 and
18 and a dropped shot on 17 was purely academic.


He immediately took up membership on the Asian Tour as his win
came with a priceless two-year exemption.


"I'll play in several tournaments on the Asian Tour. I am keen to
play in the big events like the HSBC Champions and Barclays
Singapore Open," said Kim, who made the cut at the Johnnie Walker
Classic in Phuket on an invite.


"I'll try to keep learning from the top players in the big
events. People said it would be harder in the pro ranks but I
kind of kept my amateur mindset and kept playing aggressively
which seems to have helped."


Liang, who is second on the UBS Order of Merit, was gracious in
defeat and predicted a great future for Kim.


"He is a really good player, I was really impressed with his
performance," the Chinese ace said. "He putted great over the
weekend."


Liang said his second bogey of the day on 13 had scuppered his
hopes of a second win for the season.


"I lost the tournament on that hole. I was three behind by then
and it was always going to be tough to catch him."

