

Bangkok authorities said Sunday they will deploy more police on
the streets of the Thai capital, set up checkpoints and install
more security cameras following a bomb blast in the city.


The small blast injured a man and damaged a telephone booth late
Saturday near the former political party headquarters of deposed
prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.


The bomb was also near Chitrada Palace, the Bangkok residence of
Thailand's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, and occurred on
coronation day, which celebrates the king's accession to the
throne.


Police Major General Patcharawat Wongsuwan, Thailand's deputy
police chief, said more police would be deployed at embassies,
government offices and other potential targets.


"We are increasing the force to provide security at important
areas ... while we wait for the BMA (Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration) to set up cameras," he said after a special
security meeting with the army and BMA.


Patcharawat urged the BMA to hasten the installation of 1,600 new
security cameras that were promised after a series of bomb
attacks in Bangkok on December 31 killed three and injured 42.


He did not speculate on who might have planted Saturday's bomb,
but said forensic tests were ongoing.


"It was a simple bomb. Anybody who went to technical college
could make it," he told reporters. "It aimed to cause a
disturbance."


Bangkok police chief Lieutenant General Adisorn Nonsi said his
force would also set up 84 new security checkpoints across the
capital. He said the army would be on call to man the checkpoints
if necessary.


Bangkok city Governor Apirak Kosayothin had earlier ordered all
security forces to be on high alert.


"All BMA officials must be strict in their security plans,
checking sensitive areas including telephone booths and garbage
bins, which is the joint job of the police and army," he said in
a statement.


Bangkok has been on high alert since the New Year's Eve bombings,
with authorities boosting security at department stores, shopping
malls, bus terminals, subway stations and the new international
airport.


The army-installed government initially blamed the blasts on
factions in the military or police linked to former premier
Thaksin, who was ousted in a September coup.


However, some investigators said the blasts could be linked to
Islamic militants fighting to establish an independent Muslim
state in southern Thailand.


No one has yet been charged in connection with the bombings.


Last month a small bomb exploded in a telephone booth in front of
a Bangkok shopping centre on the northern outskirts of the city.
No one was injured, and police said it could have been related to
a business dispute.

