

Former England manager Sir Bobby Robson said Sunday he had been
diagnosed with cancer for the fifth time.


The 74-year-old started a six-week bout of chemotherapy last week
after small cancerous nodules were discovered in his lungs.


The knight has battled cancer on and off for the last 15 years
and has undergone cancer surgery four times.


"Of course, it's not the greatest news I've ever had but I have
fought hard throughout my life and I will continue to fight. I
will battle as I've always done," he told The Mail on Sunday
weekly newspaper.


"My last operation in August was a success but this time the
doctors have said they can't operate.


"The good news is that they are measuring the nodules in my lungs
in millimetres rather than centimetres!


"That is encouraging and we are hopeful the treatment will keep
it under control.


"I've been advised to keep busy and active, and that's what I
will be trying to do whenever possible."


Robson vowed to carry on with his life as normal and plans to
attend his annual charity golf day in Portugal next week before
celebrating his 52nd wedding anniversary next month with his wife
Elsie, two sons and four grandchildren.


His last battle with cancer came in August 2006 when he had a
tumor the size of a grape removed from his brain.


He successfully fought cancer three times previously: he had a
golf ball-sized tumour removed from his lung in May 2006, while
in 1995, he was discovered to have a rare form of skin cancer
behind an eye.


Treatment for that involved complex surgery which left him
needing a rubber plug in his mouth. Three years before that he
overcame bowel cancer.


Robson played for Fulham and West Bromwich Albion during a
successful career. He won 20 England caps and played in the 1958
and 1962 World Cups.


He made his name as a manager with Ipswich in the 1970s, winning
the FA Cup in 1978 and the UEFA Cup in 1981 during a 13-year
spell with the club from 1969.


He guided England to the 1990 World Cup semi-finals before
managing PSV Eindhoven, Sporting Lisbon, Porto and Barcelona,
winning trophies in each country.


Robson returned to English football at Newcastle in 1999 and was
made a knight by Queen Elizabeth II in 2002 for his services to
football.

