

Rangers may have won their second consecutive Old Firm league
match on Saturday but they are still playing catch up with Celtic
for next season - according to Walter Smith.


Goals from Kris Boyd and Charlie Adam handed the Ibrox side a
comfortable 2-0 victory at home to their Glasgow rivals in the
Scottish Premier League.


This followed a 1-0 win for Rangers at Parkhead in March and
Smith is now undefeated in 13 games since replacing Frenchman
Paul Le Guen as manager in January.


Saturday's victory also means the Ibrox side will finish as
runners-up to Celtic to qualify for next season's Champions
League.


The Rangers support are hoping this latest Old Firm victory is a
sign the balance of power in Scottish football is now turning in
their favour and that they can lift the SPL title next season.


However, Smith says the latest win means little in terms of his
team's chances of finishing ahead of Celtic next season.


The Rangers manager said: "I don't think the fact we've had a
stronger second half to the season while Celtic have had a
difficult end to the season, in terms of motivation after winning
the league, will have any bearing on next season.


"Celtic will know it's our job here to make sure they are not as
far ahead again next season, or indeed not ahead at all.


"That's the pressure that's on Old Firm managers and we both know
that.


"So this win is nothing to do with setting a marker for next
season. There was an acknowledgement from both sides that Rangers
had to improve.


"Gordon has already made it quite clear that he wants Celtic to
improve next season so we have the bigger task on our hands."


Smith's opposite number at Celtic Gordon Strachan shared the view
that the end of season result would matter little for the
2007-2008 campaign.


The Celtic manager said: "We got beat 3-0 by Hearts at the end of
last season but it's not affected us too much this season. We've
finished a long way in front of Hearts in the league so we're not
going to get too worried about this defeat in terms of what it
means for next season.


"Rangers have became more consistent in recent months and I'm
sure they will want to improve further.


"But we too are looking to improve and I'm sure every manager in
the Scottish Premier League will want to improve their team for
next season so I'm not too worried about losing this game to
Rangers.


"In the two years I've been here Rangers have always been the
favourites at the start of the season. If that's the case again
and we win the league then that's fine."


With Rangers already eight points clear of third placed Aberdeen
before the match and Celtic champions, there was little at stake
for either side and it showed in what was a poor first-half.


It was the home side, however, who were doing most of the running
and it was no surprise when they took the lead in the 34th
minute.


A lobbed pass from Rangers' Spanish forward Nacho Novo wrong-
footed the Celtic defence to leave Kris Boyd in space and he sent
a left-foot volley past Polish goalkeeper Artur Boruc for his
first ever goal against the Parkhead side.


Rangers continued to be the better side after the break and in
the 55th minute they doubled their lead when Charlie Adam's free-
kick went under Celtic's defensive wall into the bottom corner of
the net.

