

Everton manager David Moyes refused to celebrate as Everton all
but secured their place in the UEFA Cup next season.


A comprehensive 3-0 victory over Portsmouth at Goodison Park on
Saturday means that the Merseyside club will play in Europe next
season barring a catastrophic set of results on the final day of
the season next Sunday.


It will require an 11 goal turn around for Everton to miss out -
and even then the club is guaranteed a place in the InterToto
Cup.


Yet Moyes opted for caution as Everton fans rushed home to dust
down their passports in anticipation of next season.


"I could end up with egg on my face by saying we are definitely
in the UEFA Cup," said Moyes, after goals by Mikel Arteta, Joseph
Yobo and substitute Gary Naysmith earned his side victory. "But
the goal difference means we have just about earned it.


"If we do qualify then it's something that has to be seen as
progress for Everton Football Club. This was a must-win game for
us and the players have delivered. It was a top-notch
performance."


It looked as though Everton might have to settle for a draw after
teenage striker James Vaughan and Lee Carsley spurned great
chances to break the deadlock either side of half time.


But three goals in the final 35 minutes saw the hosts to victory
in their final home game of the campaign.


Arteta opened the scoring from the penalty spot after Vaughan had
been fouled by England defender Glen Johnson, the Spanish
midfielder's ninth Premiership goal of the season and fifth from
the penalty spot.


Portsmouth were still recovering when Yobo doubled the lead with
a powerful header before Naysmith rounded off a memorable day for
Everton.


Moyes singled out Arteta for praise after another creative
performance by the player.


"The fans reacted magnificently, but Arteta's performance in the
second half galvanised the team," added Moyes. "He was excellent.


"It was a fitting end to our last home game of the season. It
felt like a real proper atmosphere and that's credit to the
fans."


Portsmouth can still qualify for the UEFA Cup but they face a
stiff task with Arsenal visiting Fratton Park on the final day.
Harry Redknapp was critical of his side's defending as they
failed to win for the ninth successive league away game.


Yet the Portsmouth boss is refusing to concede defeat in the race
to qualify for Europe.


"We're still there although we have a very tough game against
Arsenal next week," said Redknapp. "At half-time I thought the
game was there to be won.


"I didn't really see a problem and then Glen makes a rash
challenge and we're suddenly chasing the game."

