

Voters in the volatile high-immigrant Paris suburb of Argenteuil
shrugged off warnings of fresh violence if right-wing favourite
Nicolas Sarkozy defeats Socialist Segolene Royal on Sunday.


Under crisp morning sunshine, voters of Arab, Asian and African
origin as well as working-class French turned out in large
numbers to vote at a sports centre near the town's biggest
housing project.


It was in Argenteuil, northwest of Paris, that Sarkozy, 52,
called troublemakers "racaille," or rabble, during a visit as
interior minister in 2005, a term that made him a hate figure for
many in the high-immigrant suburbs.


"If Sarkozy wins, it would be like a punishment from God. He is a
man who will never change -- he has a terrible character," said
Doratine Ekoka, a 70-year-old retired computer programmer who
trusts 53-year-old Royal "to clean up public life."


Johan and Julie, a Chinese couple, both 53, who adopted French-
sounding first names after arriving from Beijing 15 years ago,
said they too backed Royal "without hesitation, for a fairer
society".


"For me the choice was crystal clear: I want women to have more
power," said Marie Biagui, a 63-year-old social worker of
Senegalese origin. "A woman is quite capable of running a
country, not just of having children -- and a mother also sees
things differently."


Same message from Djamila Aberkane, a 35-year-old social worker
of Algerian descent, who backed Royal "for the sake of equal
opportunities -- the divide between places like this and Paris is
getting bigger all the time."


But Aberkane was resigned to the likelihood of a Sarkozy victory:
"France isn't ready for a woman in power. They've done it in the
Nordic countries, but they're half a century ahead of us in that
respect."


Aurelie Legrand, a 21-year-old student from the French island of
La Reunion, said she voted for Royal to try to block a Sarkozy
victory.


"People say that if he wins there will be more violence so
naturally it makes you think."


Critics have accused Sarkozy of inflaming tensions in poor
suburbs such as Argenteuil, which exploded into three weeks of
violence in October and November 2005, the nation's worst civil
unrest in decades.


More than 3,000 police were deployed in Paris and its suburbs on
Sunday to head off the threat of violence after the vote.


Trailing Sarkozy in the polls, Royal attacked Sarkozy on Friday
on the grounds that his election would provoke more violence.


Ben Nodji, a 33-year-old telecoms technician from the Comoros
Islands, said he expected more trouble if the right-winger is
elected. "I take the rumours seriously, I saw cars burnings
outside my flat in 2005 -- but that doesn't mean I didn't vote
for him either."


Ekoka said she did not "feel a threat of violence" but accused
Sarkozy of doing nothing to avert a risk of unrest: "He is not a
man of peace."


But Jacqueline Roget, a 52-year-old grandmother from the French
Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, said she was "not afraid, no
matter who wins," and predicted "any violence will "quickly
simmer down."


"If Sarkozy wins, I think people will react badly -- but they're
stupid. I would be happy," said Roget, who complains of rising
vandalism in her area and approves of Sarkozy's tougher line on
crime and welfare dependency.


"Segolene is a woman like me, but she's too maternal. It just
doesn't work," she said. "I've watched the kids around here grow
up and they still insult me. I don't want to see my grandson
keeping watch for drug dealers when he's 12 years old."


"I lost my job in the wine sector after 23 years, but I've gone
and found more work as a temp -- I won't sit around on benefits."


Zegane Moguiny, 54, who moved to France six years ago from
Pondicherry in southern India, was even clearer in her support.
She backed "Mr Sarkozy, of course!" "He is a brave man, he
follows the law. And I pray to God that he will win."

