

The search resumed Sunday in a dense Cameroonian forest to locate
a missing Kenyan airliner feared crashed during a midnight storm
with 114 people on board, officials said.


Shortly after 8:00 am (0700 GMT) one French and one Cameroonian
military helicopter as well as two military planes resumed
flights over the suspected crash area in the remote equatorial
forest, an official from Kenya Airways in Douala told AFP.


Hampered by poor weather, Cameroonian helicopters and aircraft
searched in vain all day Saturday for any sign of the missing
Boeing 737-800 that sent out a distress signal over southern
Cameroon shortly after taking off.


The chief executive officer of Kenya Airways on Sunday still
spoke of an "accident" and refused to confirm reports the six-
month-old plane had crashed, "until the aircraft is sighted".


Titus Naikuni said search efforts were continuing around the town
of Lolodorf, 100 kilometres (60 miles) southwest of Yaounde,
where witnesses said they heard a loud explosion, according to
Cameroon state radio and TV.


Naikuni said two additional helicopters were on the ground to aid
the search, managed by a crisis centre in Douala.


"The Kenyan government is sending a search and rescue team to
bolster those already on the ground," an official from the Kenyan
Civil Aviation Authority told AFP in Nairobi.


The plane, which began its journey in the Ivory Coast city of
Abidjan, took off from Douala airport in western Cameroon in a
violent storm after midnight Friday, headed for Nairobi.


In his last radio message to air traffic controllers, the pilot
"simply confirmed that the plane had taken off", a source close
to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial Navigation in Africa
(ASECNA) said.


Naikuni on Sunday released the names of the 114 people on board
the Kenyan airliner, including nine Kenyan crew, and updated a
list of nationalities of the 105 passengers, replacing one
mistakenly identified as a Chinese national with a Korean.


The plane was carrying 105 passengers from at least 23 countries.
Most of the passengers were connecting through Nairobi to other
destinations outside Kenya.


Kenya's Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere led a team of 35
Kenyan officials which arrived in Douala late Saturday.


"The government wishes to reassure all Kenyans and also the
international community that we're doing whatever we can," said
spokesman Alfred Mutua, adding that they were expecting help from
Britain, France and the United States.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport, killing 169 passengers and crew.


Air France-KLM owns a 26-percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.


Kenya Airways was to hold a second news conference in Nairobi at
1:00 pm (1000 GMT).

