

East Timor voters head to the polls Wednesday for a runoff in the
presidential election, amid claims of intimidation and hopes the
result will pull the nation from a cycle of violence and turmoil.


The election for the largely ceremonial post is the first since
the impoverished country declared independence in 2002 after a
bloody separation from neighbouring Indonesia three years
earlier.


Current prime minister and Nobel peace prize winner Jose Ramos-
Horta is favoured to win over former freedom fighter Francisco
Guterres, known as Lu-Olo, from the powerful Fretilin party,
observers said.


"If the voter turnout is high, it will probably divide about 37
percent or so for Lu-Olo and the rest for Ramos-Horta," said
Damien Kingsbury from Australia's Deakin University.


"If the voter turn-out is low, which is possible as many voters'
preferred candidates are not running, it could be 40 percent plus
to Lu-Olo and 50 percent plus to Ramos-Horta," said Kingsbury, an
East Timor expert.


"I doubt that Horta will actually lose," he added.


The two rivals emerged to contest the runoff after neither won a
majority in the closely-fought April 9 election, which was
peaceful and saw thousands of Timorese queue for hours to cast
their votes.


Guterres won 28 percent while Ramos-Horta finished with 22
percent.


More than 4,000 international and local police officers, and
about 1,000 troops from an Australian-led international
peacekeeping force dispatched to quell bloody unrest last year,
will again be on alert in case of trouble.


Observers said they were concerned that, if Guterres lost,
violence would erupt among Fretilin supporters, especially in
strongholds outside the capital Dili.


"We are getting mixed messages about whether Fretilin will
gracefully accept defeat. I think they will at a formal level,
but perhaps not on the streets, or in some particular areas such
as (central west) Ermera and (southern coastal) Viqueque," said
Kingsbury.


Tiny East Timor was plunged into turmoil in May last year after
fighting between factions of the military, and the military and
the police, descended into gang violence that killed 37 people
and forced 150,000 to flee their homes.


Claims of intimidation during door-to-door campaigning and
bribery of voters have emerged in the leadup to Wednesday,
including offers of sacks of rice in exchange for votes, and cash
for voter registration cards, analyst Sophia Cason said.


But Cason, from thinktank International Crisis Group, predicted
voters would brush off any threats, and again turn out in force,
in the hope a new president will improve their impoverished
lives.


"There was an atmosphere of intimidation at some of the polling
stations in the first round, even in Dili," Cason said, adding
the latest claims could not be substantiated.


"But despite this, people didn't seem to be scared."


"East Timorese are resilient, if you consider everything they
have been through before this election, when a political rally
before independence could bring severe punishment, then this
(intimidation) is not going to stop them from voting," she said.


More than 520,000 people are registered to vote, and the result
should be available later in the week.


An election specialist, who did not want to be named, said extra
ballots had been printed and other safeguards taken to try to
avoid a repeat of the embarrassing mistakes of April 9.


Some polling stations ran out of ballots in the first round and
technical problems meant votes had to be rechecked, delaying the
result.


Ramos-Horta, who spent 24 years in exile during the Indonesian
occupation and was the chief spokesman for East Timor's cause,
has been campaigning for unity in the nation beset by regional
rivalry.


He shared the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for pushing the former
Portuguese colony's plight on the world stage, a struggle that
helped bring its 1999 UN-sponsored referendum for independence.


The incumbent president, charismatic former guerrilla leader
Xanana Gusmao, is not seeking reelection.


Since independence in 2002, Guterres, who spent years fighting
Indonesian troops, has been speaker of the parliament that
Fretilin dominates.


Fretilin, formed to fight for independence, retains a solid
support base despite criticism of a lack of political openness
and of intimidation.


A Fretilin rally in Dili on Saturday drew 500 supporters.


"As a Fretilin militant, I support Lu-Olo because he fought for
24 years for East Timor's independence. Lu Olo has the capacity
to rule the country," said Jaine Soares Da Costa, 40, a high
school teacher.

