

Huge questions remain over China's commitment and ability to
combat global warming after the surging Asian power bruised and
cajoled but also charmed delegates at a UN conference, observers
said.


China was one of the nations most under focus at the climate
change meeting in Bangkok that wrapped up on Friday with a
message that the world had just a few years to act if it was to
avert the worst impacts of global warming.


With carbon dioxide-spewing, coal-fired power plants generating
around 70 percent of China's seemingly exponential energy needs,
the world's most populous nation is now firmly entrenched as one
of Earth's most crucial climate changers.


China is expected to overtake the United States as the world's
biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that
cause global warming anytime from now until 2010, according to
the International Energy Agency.


Amid such forecasts, some of the delegates from 120 nations who
attended the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's
conference greeted with deep dismay China's seemingly pessimistic
and obstructionist ambit at the event.


Michael Mueller, a German environment ministry official who
attended the week- long talks, said after the meeting that the
Chinese delegates had been "masters of deception and the art of
interpretation".


China had sought more than 10 amendments to the draft summary of
the IPCC's report, saying it would cost more and be much harder
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions than detailed.


But the voices of dismay over China's tactics were largely
silenced after it agreed to the final report, which emphasised
that the world already had the money and technology to fend off
the worst impacts of climate change.


Green groups and the European Union hailed the report as a
historic document that showed the world had the ability to save
itself from global warming.


United Nations Environment Programme spokesman Michael Williams
said China had played a constructive role, and that their points
were for the most part based on scientific grounds that helped
improve the final report.


"Most of the interventions by China were useful," Williams told
AFP.


"You could argue that some of the delegates that are most
critical and difficult towards the text are the most important to
the text.


"By challenging and nitpicking and asking questions, that just
increases the chances of us getting a better text."


Beijing-based Greenpeace climate and energy campaigner Li Yan,
who attended the conference as an observer, said China had
appeared to be interested in political issues at the start of the
week rather than dealing with the problem.


China initially lobbied hard to insert a clause into the report
that laid the blame on the greenhouse gas emissions in the past
on rich nations such as the United States.


"But later on the Chinese delegates became more open, more
constructive, more helpful," Li told AFP.


"The final text was improved according to the delegates'
opinions, including from China."


Li said she was optimistic that China would follow some of the
options laid out in the report, particularly the call to build up
renewable energies and increasing energy efficiency.


China has already set some targets in these fields that are
relatively close to Greenpeace's recommendations.


China has said it wants 16 percent of its energy mix to come from
renewables by 2020.


It has also set targets to slash its energy consumption per unit
of gross domestic product by 20 percent from 2006 to 2010, and to
cut emissions of key water and air pollutants by 10 percent over
the same period.


However China lowered its energy consumption per unit of gross
domestic product by just 1.2 percent last year -- against a goal
of four percent -- while pollution emission levels actually rose
by two percent.


Meanwhile, China continues to build coal-fired power plants at a
rate of more than one a week.

