

With the eurozone's economic outlook the brightest in "many
years," the European Commission will shed new light on just how
fast the 13-nation eurozone economy is growing with fresh
forecasts on Monday.


Eurozone finance ministers, meeting later Monday in Brussels,
will then have their chance to weigh in on the outlook for their
combined economy, especially in the face of the euro's record
strength on currency markets.


"We are in a clear cyclical recovery, a robust recovery," said EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin Almunia on
Thursday.


The European Union's executive arm has given little room for
doubt that it will raise its existing forecast of 2.4 percent to
reflect the bloc's improving economic outlook.


"The prospects for continued economic growth in the euro area are
more favourable in 2007 than they have been for many years," the
Commission said in its annual statement on the shared currency
club, which was presented by Almunia.


Last year the eurozone economy grew at its fastest pace since the
beginning of the decade, expanding 2.7 percent thanks to a strong
recovery in Germany, the biggest economic power in Europe.


Therefore, the Commission's updated forecasts should show whether
or not the eurozone's current recovery peaked last year, as was
previously widely thought.


Long the laggard of the world economy, the eurozone's new found
dynamism, which the International Monetary Fund expects to be
stronger than in the United States this year, has helped propel
the euro to new highs against other currencies.


At the end of last month, the euro hit an all-time high against
the US currency of 1.3682 dollars and rose to a fresh record on
Thursday against the Japanese unit of 163.60 yen.


The last time the euro was close to such levels against major
currencies in late 2004 and early 2005, its strength helped
derail a nascent economic recovery in Europe by sapping foreign
demand for eurozone exports.


However, Almunia was confident that a repeat would be avoided,
saying that so far he was not seeing "negative impacts" from the
euro's strength, echoing recent comments from many eurozone
finance ministers.


Economists at investment bank UBS said Europe should take the
euro's strength in its stride because the bloc's underlying
economic fundamentals were sound.


"A further modest rise in the euro against the US dollar should
not unduly affect the European economy," they said in research
note Friday.


"Business and household confidence gauges have remained healthy
given the backdrop of improving labour markets and domestic
demand fundamentals," they added.


Economic confidence is running at close to a six-year high,
according to a recent survey, while eurozone unemployment fell in
March to 7.2 percent, the lowest level on record in EU books
going back to 1993.


After discussing the improving growth outlook in the combined
economy on Monday evening, the eurozone ministers are to be
joined by their counterparts from the full 27 nation European
Union for further talks, focusing mainly on hedge funds.


Despite a German push for tougher regulation of the aggressive
and often opaque investment funds, the ministers will find that
current monitoring of the industry is largely sufficient,
according to draft conclusions obtained by AFP.

