

Sri Lankan children are being encouraged to raid their piggy
banks in a bid to end a serious shortage of loose change in a
country where inflation is making coins worth more than their
face value.


State-owned banks are offering colour pencils, felt pens, drawing
paper and books to children who part with their savings in
exchange for bank notes, promising the gifts will be worth 20
percent more than the coins handed in.


"If children break their piggy banks and bring the coins back to
circulation we will give exercise books and pens in addition to
returning the money in bank bills," said Deputy Finance Minister
Ranjith Siymbalapitiya.


The offer of an extra 20 percent in the form of gift coupons
coincided with the traditional new year last month and followed a
major shortage of coins essential for the cash-reliant transport
and retail sectors.


Minting cheaper steel coins plated with copper and nickel has not
helped, according to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.


The central bank tried in 2001 to coax people to put unused coins
back into circulation by urging students to break into their
piggy banks, but the scheme flopped.


The finance ministry expects the added incentive this time round
will pay off.


The 20 percent premium has a resonance as prices have surged by
that amount in the past year and the island nation which imports
many consumer goods as well as commodities has seen older coins
made with copper and nickel snapped up for the metal.


The economy has also been hit by decades of ethnic war that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives in the past 35 years including an
upsurge in fighting between Tamil rebels and government troops in
the past year that has hit tourism, a mainstay of the economy.


Even commemorative gold and silver coins had been snapped up by
foundries to melt and make jewellery as the precious metals in
the coins was worth more than the face value of the coins
themselves.


The Central Bank got wiser in July 2004 and briefly withdrew the
coins from sale before repricing them at the market value of the
precious metals. Yet, the 5,000 gold coins and 25,000 silver
tokens had been a sell out.


Jewellers said it made good business sense to melt down the
coins, albeit illegally, although no one would admit to doing so.


The less glamorous nickel and copper coins may find their way
into Sri Lankan homes, not by way of cash but as more expensive
copper screws used by the construction industry.


Five and 10 cent copper coins are almost extinct with only the
cheaper aluminium replacements found occasionally.


"You almost never get change money from bus conductors," said
local businessman Chaanda Wijesekera. "Their excuse is that they
don't have change. We have a big shortage of small change."


The coin shortage is partly due to the older nickel coins being
used as washers. By drilling a hole in the middle, a coin is
turned into a washer that is a cheaper and more durable
alternative to galvanised steel washers used in motor vehicles.


Central Bank of Sri Lanka assistant governor Rose Cooray said
small denomination coins are no longer issued because the cost of
minting them is higher than the face value.


The island does not make its own coins, instead getting supplies
from the Royal Mint of Britain, the Royal Canadian Mint or the
Monnaie De Paris of France.


Cooray declined to give the cost of minting, but said sharp rises
in base metals prices had rendered the traditional coins
uneconomical and the bank had opted for the cheaper plated coins
from December 2005.


"We are saving about 600 million rupees (six million dollars)
with the new coins," Cooray said. "The earlier series of coins
will also be legal tender but we won't mint them anymore."


Sri Lanka may also have lost some of its five rupee coins to
Britain where the coin is known to have fooled vending machines
to accept it as a one pound coin. At the current rates, a pound
buys 43 five-rupee coins.


Other coins get lost in traffic as Sri Lankan motorists like to
attach "blessed" coins to their steering column for safe journeys
on local roads that are among the world's most dangerous.


Notwithstanding the coins blessed by Buddhist and Hindu priests,
the highways claim about 2,000 lives annually.


Coins are also thrown along funeral processions to ensure a
prosperous after- life for the dead -- a practice that is
becoming a luxury many can no longer afford.

