

A woman mayor, a farmer and a black anti-apartheid struggle
veteran are to go head to head on Sunday in elections for the
leadership of South Africa's main opposition party, perceived by
many to be a defender of white privilege.


Polling stations are to open at 7 am (0500 GMT) at the Democratic
Alliance's two-day federal congress held in Midrand near
Johannesburg to elect a successor to retiring politician Tony
Leon.


Many see the leadership change as a chance for the liberalist
party to shake off its white elitist image and make inroads into
the black electorate as much of the lobbying centres around
issues of cultural and racial identity.


Cape Town mayor Helen Zille is the favourite to win the three-
horse race and see off a challenge from the party's black
chairman Joe Seremane and Eastern Cape leader Athol Trollip.


Zille, a former journalist, later became a provincial education
minister and then Cape Town mayor a year ago -- a role that has
earned her respect as a competent administrator who understands
the need to appeal across the racial spectrum.


But many within and outside the party fear she might not be able
to handle both jobs, having indicated she would not abandon the
mayorship.


Seremane, a teacher by training, spent six years as a prisoner
alongside Nelson Mandela on Robben Island for his anti-apartheid
activities in the radical Pan Africanist Congress.


His age (69) is seen as a drawback by some, but the fact that he
is black might help the DA attract votes from the country's
majority race group, of which it has a very small share.


Trollip was largely unknown outside the DA before announcing his
candidacy, but made headlines when he stated he was white on the
outside and black inside.


Leon, 50-years-old, who has been the official opposition leader
for the past eight years and leader of the DA and its predecessor
Democratic Party for 13, was often described as elitist and
racist by the ruling African National Congress for his vehement
criticism of its policies on issues like affirmative action and
AIDS.

