

Simon Mann, the alleged mastermind of a foiled coup in Equatorial
Guinea who completes a jail term in Zimbabwe this week for an
illegal arms charge, cannot yet count on being a free man.


Mann could on Friday walk out of Chikurubi Maximum Security
Prison on the outskirts of Harare and reunite with his family and
friends after four years' incarceration.


"He is due for release when he completes his sentence on Friday,
May 11," his Zimbabwean lawyer Jonathan Samkange told AFP in an
interview.


"The prison authorities cannot hold him any longer than the
period of the sentence he is serving because he is not being held
on any warrant," he said.


Mann, however, faces a hurdle on Wednesday when a Harare court
makes its ruling on a request by Equatorial Guinea to extradite
him to the central African state. He is wanted there on charges
of masterminding a planned ouster of long-serving ruler Teodoro
Obiang Nguema.


Equatorial Guinea also wants Mann to provide details on foreign
nationals, countries and Guineans involved in the alleged coup
plot as well as their financiers.


Samkange alleged that the central African country had a poor
human rights record and Mann could be tortured, tried by a biased
military tribunal and sentenced to a lengthy jail term if handed
over.


Human rights group Amnesty International said in its 2006 report
that arbitrary detentions and torture had been reported in
Equatorial Guinea.


Mann, an Eton-educated ex-member of Britain's crack SAS troops,
and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at Harare
international airport in March 2004.


They were accused of stopping off to pick up weapons en route to
Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick du Toit,
who was himself arrested and then sentenced to 34 years in prison
in Equatorial Guinea's capital.


Mann said he and his co-accused were in transit to the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC) when they were arrested in Harare.


He said they needed the weapons for a security contract they had
won in northern DRC which he said was then occupied by former
armed rebels.


A Harare court handed him a seven-year jail term for the purchase
of weapons that prosecutors said were to be used to topple
Nguema, ruler of the oil-rich central African state since 1979.
The sentence was later reduced.


Most of those arrested with Mann were released from a Zimbabwean
prison in 2005.


The case made headlines worldwide following the arrest in Cape
Town in August 2004 of Mark Thatcher, the wealthy son of former
British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, who allegedly helped
bankroll the coup bid.


Thatcher eventually pleaded guilty in a South African court to
unwittingly helping finance the alleged coup and was fined some
400,000 euros (510,000 dollars).


Samkange declined to give details of Mann's prison experience,
attitude ahead of his release or his plans when he leaves Harare
saying it would pre-empt memoirs he said his client was writing
in prison.


"He wants to sell his story and make money out of it so he will
not give it away in bits and pieces in interviews," the lawyer
said.


"All I can say is Simon Mann is writing a book covering his life,
his career, his prison experience, his friends and those who
betrayed him," the lawyer said.


"He is going to give exclusive rights to a publisher and I have
been approached by a number of publishers who want to buy the
rights. I have passed on the information to him and he will
decide who should get the rights.


"Even on his release he is not going to give interviews for
nothing," he said.


Samkange said Mann was awaiting approval from Zimbabwe's justice
minister to be taken to a private hospital for a hernia
operation.

