

Pakistan's sacked top judge Sunday declared the "era of
dictatorship is over" to cheers from tens of thousands as he took
his battle with President Pervez Musharraf to the eastern city of
Lahore.


En route from Islamabad, Chaudhry was cheered by large crowds who
showered his convoy with fresh rose petals and chanted "Go
Musharraf, go" and "Justice for chief justice."


"The motive of your struggle is supremacy of the constitution and
rule of law and God will definitely give us success in this
struggle," Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry told a
cheering crowd in Lahore, many of whom had camped out overnight
waiting for his arrival.


Tens of thousands of people gave him a resounding welcome as he
took his protest to the city for the first time since he was
fired by military ruler Musharraf on March 9.


Chaudhry, who has denied charges that he abused his authority,
told the crowd that the "Era of dictatorship is over."


"It is the responsibility of the courts to defend human rights of
the people and protect the constitution," he said.


"Rule of law and supremacy of the constitution is inevitable for
a civilised society and the nations who do not believe in it
cannot survive and face a collapse," he told the crowd in the
city known as the country's cultural capital.


It was the biggest show of support for Chaudhry since he was
sacked by Musharraf on March 9 over misconduct charges, his
counsel Aitzaz Ahsan told the gathering on the lawns of the
Lahore High Court.


"Tens of thousands people came for his reception, this is a
referendum against Musharraf," Ahsan told the crowd.


"This reception is historic and it will be remembered in the
country for many years."


Around 7,000 policemen and security officials were deployed for
the rally but there were no incidents reported and the crowd
dispersed peacefully.


Musharraf's decision to sack Chaudhry sparked uproar from
opposition parties, who called it an attempt to intimidate the
judiciary.


Musharraf, an army general who seized power in a bloodless coup
in 1999, has appointed a five-judge panel to hold an inquiry into
the charges.


Protest rallies have been held regularly, and lawyers boycotted
court on each hearing of the panel in Islamabad to demand
Chaudhry's reinstatement.


The panel, called the Supreme Judicial Council, adjourned
proceedings on Thursday until May 9 after lawyers concluded
arguments about the validity and composition of the council.


Opponents say Musharraf wants to weaken the courts and make it
easier for him to stay on as army chief past this year's deadline
set by the constitution.


The president also intends to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or early next -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.


Punjab chief minister Chaudhry Pervez Elahi said the judge's
campaign seemed to have turned political with Sunday's speech in
Lahore, the province's main city.


"This is clear that this campaign has become political," Elahi
told a local channel.


The ruling party would respond with a "much bigger rally" on May
12, he announced.

