

Cameroon was set to resume at daybreak Sunday the search for a
missing Kenyan airliner with 114 people on board feared crashed
in dense jungle after having taking off in a violent storm.


While Cameroonian authorities and Kenya Airlines stopped short of
saying openly that the jet crashed early Saturday shortly after
taking off from Douala, a source at the airline and an official
of the Kenyan civil aviation authority voiced the worst fears of
the families of those on board.


"The plane has crashed," the Kenyan official said on condition of
anonymity.


Kenyan officials said France was expected to join the search for
the Kenyan plane.


"We have information that the French are sending a chopper or
plane from Libreville to assist Cameroonian authorities in the
search for the plane," said an official from the Kenyan Civil
Aviation Authority.


"Yesterday's search yielded nothing and we are expecting to
resume today," said the official.


The six-month-old Boeing 737 was flying from Abidjan in Ivory
Coast with a stopover in Douala before heading to Nairobi, where
it was due at 6:15 am (0315 GMT).


It was carrying nine Kenyan crew and 105 passengers including 83
Africans of several nationalities, 15 Indians, six Chinese, five
Britons, one Swiss, one Swede and one US citizen. Most of the
passengers were connecting through Nairobi to other destinations
outside Kenya.


Kenya Airways and a source close to the Agency for the Safety of
Aerial Navigation in Africa (ASECNA) said that the airliner had
taken off from Douala in western Cameroon at 0:07 am (2307 GMT)
in the middle of a violent storm.


Only minutes later, Flight KQ 507 disappeared from radar screens.


In his last radio message to air traffic controllers, the pilot
"simply confirmed that the plane had taken off," the ASECNA
source said.


A satellite picked up a distress signal from the plane at 2:00 am
(0100 GMT), the source said. Early on Saturday the airline
announced that the plane was missing.


Hampered by poor weather, Cameroonian helicopters and aircraft
searched all day for any sign of the plane in a vast area of
jungle in the southwest of the west African country.


From midday onwards the search focused on a region around the
town of Lolodorf, 100 kilometres (60 miles) southwest of Yaounde,
where witnesses said they heard a loud explosion overnight,
Cameroonian state radio and TV said.


Kenya Airways chief executive Titus Naikuni told a news
conference that the airliner had been delayed from taking off by
one hour due to heavy rain but stopped short of saying it had
crashed.


"The area being searched is very dense equatorial forest and we
have been told that there was heavy rainfall and is continuing.
It is affecting the search exercise," Kaituni said.


"As far as I know, the aircraft is updated in terms of
maintenance and the pilots are also updated in terms of
training," Naikuni said, adding that the plane was only six
months old.


Cameroonian authorities set up two emergency centres, one in
Yaounde and the other in Douala, to coordinate search operations.
A crisis centre has also been established at Kenya Airways
headquarters at Nairobi airport.


Kenya's Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere was due to have
left Saturday for Cameroon.


He said that Kenya had approached the United States to assist
Kenyan and Cameroonian civil aviation authorities with satellite
communication information to help track the plane's flight path.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport, killing 169 passengers and crew.


Air France-KLM owns 26 percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.


A local passenger information centre has been opened at the
Intercontinental Hotel in Nairobi and an international contact
number has been set up on: +27 11 2071100.

