

French voters go to the polls Sunday to chose their next
president, with the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy the clear
favourite to beat Socialist Segolene Royal.


Some 44 million people can take part in the two-candidate second
round of the presidential vote, with ballot booths opening at
8:00 am (0600 GMT) and closing 12 hours later.


Reliable projections are expected immediately after polls close.


The government ordered police reinforcements in Paris and its
suburbs to forestall possible violence in the case of a Sarkozy
victory.


The former interior minister is a hate figure for many in the
poor high- immigration neighbourhoods which were the scene of
riots in 2005.


Railway stations in the capital will be under high surveillance
in case gangs of youths travel into the city centre to disrupt
victory celebrations, a police spokesman said.


The last opinion polls published before a ban at midnight Friday
all showed a clear lead for Sarkozy, with the gap widening in the
last days.


France is voting for a successor to 74 year-old Jacques Chirac --
president since 1995 -- in an election that hinges on two starkly
different programmes of right and left.


Sarkozy, the 52-year-old head of the ruling Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP), is proposing a radical economic agenda based on
tax cuts, limits to trade union powers and incentives to work
harder.


Royal, 53, who is the first woman to have a serious chance of
becoming French president, favours measures to safeguard the
country's system of social protection and state intervention to
create jobs.


Both candidates are seen as representatives of a younger
generation of politicians, promising new ideas to tackle France's
runaway national debt, high unemployment and festering discontent
in the city suburbs.


Sarkozy and Royal came first and second in the multi-candidate
round of the election on April 22, with 31.2 percent and 25.9
percent of the vote.


The two-week second round campaign focussed on the 6.8 million
people -- 18.6 percent of the vote -- who chose the defeated
centrist Francois Bayrou.


Bayrou refused to give an endorsement to either candidate, though
he made it clear that his personal preference is for Royal.


The high point of the campaign was Wednesday's televised debate
between Sarkozy and Royal, which was watched by some 20 million
viewers.


Royal showed an unexpectedly aggressive streak in the debate --
at one point accusing Sarkozy of "political immorality." Her
attacks won high praise from supporters, but surveys subsequently
showed most voters found Sarkozy the more convincing.


Continuing to trail in the polls, Royal launched an even fiercer
personal assault on Sarkozy Friday, saying his election would
provoke more riots in the high-immigration suburbs.


"I have a responsibility to issue an alert over the risks ...
regarding the violence and brutalities that will be triggered
across the country. Everyone knows it but no one says it. It is a
kind of taboo," she said.


Sarkozy responded that "never in the history of the Fifth
Republic have such violent and threatening comments been heard.
Saying that if you vote for a candidate there will be violence is
simply to reject the right to democratic expression."


French newspapers Saturday noted the gloomy atmosphere inside
Royal's camp.


Le Parisien newspaper said that Royal's campaign "is ending in a
surreal ambience ... you can cut the atmosphere at PS
headquarters with a knife."


The left-wing daily Liberation said that "the hypothesis of
defeat began to take hold Friday. Only the candidate herself
seems to keep the faith."


An aide to Sarkozy said there will be a celebration on the Place
de la Concorde Sunday night if Sarkozy wins, with French rocker
Johnny Hallyday providing the star turn.

