

Amid a blazing row between Russia and Estonia, an Estonian ban on
alcohol sales had an upside for Yelena Bogetova: customers
trooping across the border to Russia to stock up at her shop.


"Do you expect people not to drink? Russians without vodka --
well..." she exclaimed, her thoughts tailing off.


Two ancient fortresses face each other across the Narva river, a
reminder that today's border between Russia and its Western-
backed neighbour has been a strategic battleground at least since
Medieval times, when the area was contested by Danes, Swedes and
Russians.


Today Ivangorod on the Russian side and its Estonian counterpart
Narva are again a lightning rod for tensions, amid a bitter
dispute over last month's removal of a War World II monument from
the Estonian capital Tallinn.


In Tallinn one Russian citizen was killed as ethnic-Russians
rioted over the transfer of the Bronze Soldier statue from the
capital's centre to a war cemetery, along with the exhumation of
several soldiers' bodies.


At the border, the atmosphere remains tense both on the Estonian
side and in Ivangorod, a forlorn settlement named after Tsar Ivan
III that is home to about 11,000 people, living mostly in run-
down apartment blocks or shacks.


Now attention is focussed on sensitive World War II
commemorations marked by Russians on May 9.


"We want everything to be calm. This should be resolved by the
two states," said Anzhela Meshko, another shopkeeper who was
benefitting from a ban on alcohol sales by shops in Estonia,
intended to avert trouble.


Russia and the Russian minority in Estonia -- nearly a third of
the population of the Baltic republic -- have been deeply
offended by a step they regard as profaning the memory of the
Soviet Union's massive losses in World War II.


Moscow dismisses Estonia's view that the statue also symbolizes
two occupations of Estonia by Soviet forces, one in the early
stages of World War II, the other after, which led to half a
century of rule from Moscow and the deportation to Siberia of
tens of thousands of Estonians.


"Why did they move the statue? It's for Russians, Georgians,
Armenians.... Why did they disturb the dead?" demanded a tearful
Antonina Filippova, wheeling a bicycle-load of goods across the
border.


"It doesn't honour Russians, it honours the war dead," said
Filippova, one of about 10,000 Russian citizens who live in Narva
but receive Russian state pensions in Ivangorod.


In Narva, Mikhail Dmitrov, a miner working in the local oil shale
industry, made a blunt warning.


"It's far from quiet here. It'll get a lot worse. The monument is
a sacred thing," he said.


He voiced the sense of grievance felt by many Russians since the
end of Soviet rule and defended the Soviet authorities' efforts
to shift the demographic balance by deporting Estonians and
bringing in Russians.


"We're not occupiers.... My ancestors came here in the age of
Ivan the Terrible," he declared.


At the office of the Union of Russian Citizens in Narva,
decorated with pictures of Soviet leaders Joseph Stalin and
Vladimir Lenin, the organisation's head, Yury Mishin, warned of
an explosive situation.


Mishin, who also works as an aide to a member of Russia's
parliament, warned that violence might be unavoidable unless the
Estonian state makes concessions, such as granting Russian the
status of a second state language.


"We're trying to calm the situation but we need some action. It
won't happen by words alone," he said.


But such views are not universally shared, in particular by the
ethnic-Russian editor of the newspaper Narvskaya Gazeta, Sergei
Stepanov, who helped organise patrols to keep the peace during
weekend disturbances in Narva.


"They say to us you're not Russians because you're not marching
around waving a red flag.... I'm saying that you're not being
Russian by acting against the law," said Stepanov.


Western backers have gradually rallied to help Estonia, mindful
that it is a member of the European Union and NATO and has
deployed troops in some of the toughest parts of Afghanistan.


But many criticise Estonia's handling of the statue issue.


In the neighbouring Baltic state of Latvia, human rights expert
Nils Muiznieks says the recent troubles should encourage Estonia
to hold the kind of open discussion that characterised Latvia's
entry to Western institutions but was largely lacking in Estonia.


"The Estonians really screwed up. It's so surreal, these debates
over the statue. It has nothing to do with what Estonians are
concerned about," said Muiznieks, a member of the European
Commission against Racism and Intolerance.

