

Street Sense, ridden by Calvin Borel and trained by Carl Nafzger,
won the Kentucky Derby here on Saturday, capturing the first leg
of US flat racing's Triple Crown.


Street Sense surged past Hard Spun in the final straight to win
the 133rd running of the 1 1/4-mile race, which was attended by
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II.


Rallying from far back, Street Sense became the first colt to win
the Kentucky Derby after winning the Breeders' Cup Juvenile. He
also became the first 2-year- old champion from the previous
season to win the race since Spectacular Bid in 1979.


Hard Spun held on for second, followed by Curlin.


The victory put 65-year-old trainer Nafzger back in the winner's
circle at Churchill Downs. Nafzger trained Unbridled, who won the
Run for the Roses in 1990.


"We have a good horse, he took us every place we've been and he
took us there every day," Nafzger said of Street Sense, who is
owned by James Tafel.


Trainer Todd Pletcher, who saddled five starters in his bid to
finally break through for his first Triple Crown race victory,
instead fell to 0-15 in the Kentucky Derby.


Circular Quay, who finished sixth, was the best of Pletcher's
entries. Any Given Saturday was eighth, Sam P. ninth, Scat Daddy
18th and Cowtown Cat was last.


The pretigious trio of races continues with the Preakness Stakes
in Maryland and concludes with the Belmont Stakes in New York.


Borel gave Street Sense a beautiful ride, bringing his mount up
from 19th - next-to-last in the 20-horse field - midway through
the race.


He zoomed past Hard Spun en route to a 2 1/4-length victory in
2:02.17 that immediately established him as the favorite for the
Preakness in two weeks.


"He is the best 3-year-old I've ever been on in my life," Borel
said. "He's very push button. He will put you in a spot you want
to be and then relax. I don't know how good he is."


Having won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile by 10 lengths last November
at Churchill Downs, his home track, Street Sense was sent off as
the favorite.


But Hard Spun, ridden by Mario Pino and trained by Larry Jones,
set the pace for the first three-quarters.


Borel, known for his ability to save ground while moving through
a field, began picking off horses, moving Street Sense into
perfect position around the final turn.


Once Borel moved him off the rail, Street Sense thundered home.


"I wanted to save ground," Borel said. "It was a smooth trip. I
knew I had them where I wanted. He has a tremendous turn of foot.
He does whatever you want him to."


Curlin was also well back early. The lightly raced colt, trained
by Steve Asmussen and ridden by Robby Albarado, had been
undefeated in three career starts.


The crowd of 156,635 was the third-largest in the history of the
event.

