

Popular news-ranking website Digg has sparked a fierce rebellion
in the world of citizen journalism by trying to stop the spread
of software code for hacking high-definition movie discs.


An insurrection by Digg users took place last week when website
operators removed postings of an HD-DVD encryption code key and
closed the accounts of posters to appease the Advanced Access
Content System (AACS).


The AACS created the encryption and licenses software to prevent
Blu-Ray format and HD-DVD movies from being illegally copied.
Digg is a website where links to online news stories and blogs
are indexed based on feedback from users.


AACS sent Digg, Google and other websites "cease and desist"
letters demanding removal of postings exposing the encryption
code key on the grounds US law bans trafficking in "circumvention
devices" for digital movie piracy.


"We had to decide whether to remove stories containing a single
code based on a cease-and-desist declaration," Digg founder Kevin
Rose wrote in his blog.


"We had to make a call, and in our desire to avoid a scenario
where Digg would be interrupted or shut down, we decided to
comply and remove the stories with the code."


The campaign to delete the information caused an overwhelming
counterattack by website users who relentlessly barraged Digg
with new postings of the banned software code.


Digg surrendered in the face of the overwhelming odds and let its
users have their way.


"After seeing hundreds of stories and reading thousands of
comments, you've made it clear," Rose told Digg devotees in his
blog. "You'd rather see Digg go down fighting than bow down to a
bigger company."


"We hear you, and effective immediately we won't delete stories
or comments containing the code and will deal with whatever the
consequences might be. If we lose, then what the hell, at least
we died trying."


Digg has little reason to worry at the moment because the AACS
legal grounds to sue for distribution of piracy circumvention
technology are weak, according to Electronic Frontier Foundation
senior attorney Fred von Lohmann.


"The AACS Licensing Administrator has set its lawyers on the
futile mission of trying to get every instance of at least one
key (hint: it begins with 09 f9) removed from the Internet," von
Lohmann said in a statement published on the EFF website.


"Predictably, this legal effort has backfired, resulting in
eternal Internet fame for the key in question."


Aside from being replicated countless times on websites, the
encryption key code is printed on T-shirts sold on the Internet.


Musical renditions of the code available in online videos include
a man singing it in a guitar ballad titled "Oh Nine, Eff Nine" on
Google-owned YouTube.


The encryption key has also been used as an Internet domain name
and as the basis for an online quiz, according to von Lohmann.


Digg members whose accounts were revoked because of encryption
key postings are demanding to be re-admitted to the website.


The AACS software for preventing copying of high-definition DVDs
in rival Blu- Ray and HD-DVD formats was created by a consortium
of technology and entertainment industry firms including Disney,
INTEL, Microsoft, Warner Brothers, IBM, Toshiba, Sony, and
Matsushita (Panasonic).


The encryption key was figured out last year by a self-proclaimed
hacker and spread quickly on the Internet.


AACS has since strengthened the encryption, but the key remains
able to "crack" the anti-copying protection on HD-DVDs released
before the fix.

