

Chinese star hurdler Liu Xiang believes the track surface of the
Nagai stadium will suit him in his quest for a gold medal at the
world athletics championships here later this year.


"I've heard the track has been changed, but I felt really good,"
said the 23 -year-old world record holder after winning the Japan
Grand Prix for a fourth year running on Saturday -- giving him a
100 percent winning record on the track.


"I was third in 2003 and second in the 2005 in the world
championships, so I certainly hope to get a better result this
time around."


The world championships, the last major athletics event before
the Beijing Olympics in 2008, will be held at the stadium in
August.


In 2004, Liu set a new Asian record in his first victory here,
setting the scene for his excellent performance at the Olympics
where he equalled the previous world record of 12.91 to become
Asia's first Olympic track gold medallist.


Liu then broke the 13-year-old world mark by clocking 12.88 at
the Super Grand Prix in Lausanne in July last year and he now
holds three of the top 10 all-time performances ever.


On Saturday, Liu ran safely in order to avoid getting an injury,
but he still marked the season's best time of 13.14 seconds in
his first outdoor race this year.


"I didn't do a special preparation for this race, because there
were not big rivals here (like Allen Johnson), so I was pretty
sure of winning it if I could run my usual race," said Liu.


"I set a personal best of 7.42 in Germany this season (in the
indoor 60m hurdles), so I'm quite confident."


Fellow Chinese Shi Dongpeng, whom Liu defeated into second in the
Doha Asian Games in December, ran a personal best of 13.24
seconds for second place.


Liu insisted modestly that he "hopes to finish among top eight
with Shi Dongpeng" at the world championships.


His coach Sun Haiping said he sets low expectations to try and
fend off the pressure he feels as China's national hero.


"For sure, he tries to avoid feeling pressure. I think the
surface of the Nagai stadium suits his running. He just wanted to
confirm it does," said Sun.


"He didn't run his fastest race because of trying to avoid
getting an injury. He can run much faster. He ran a relaxed
race."

