

Tony Blair, the soon-to-resign British prime minister, insisted
Sunday his finance minister Gordon Brown has the ability to lead
their Labour Party to another general election victory.


Blair, who has consistently refused to name Brown outright as his
chosen successor, praised Brown's handling of the economy as
evidence of his ability to help steer their party to a fourth
consecutive term in office after a battering in mid-term
elections this week.


Blair is expected to announce his resignation plans in the coming
days and will quit within weeks -- meaning Brown will be just as
much in the spotlight.


The pair were close allies, but their relationship cooled,
providing a sometimes difficult dynamic at the heart of power in
Britain. They publicly insist they get along but some insiders
say not so.


Blair acknowledged that Labour now had a fight on its hands after
a decade of dominance under his rule but said the main opposition
Conservatives' policies were not "thought through."


"Gordon Brown by contrast is completely thought through," Blair
wrote in the News of the World newspaper.


"He has steered our economy from one of boom and bust to one of
the best in the world.


"He didn't do it by choosing the easy way. He did it by sound
judgment, holding his nerve and putting the long-term interests
of Britain first.


"At general election time, that is still the route to victory."


Following Thursday's mid-term elections, Labour was ousted as the
biggest force in the Scottish Parliament and was left looking for
a coalition partner to keep power in the Welsh Assembly.


The party was also trounced in English local elections by the
centre-right Conservatives, who scored 40 percent compared with
Labour's 27 percent.


Blair admitted the poll drubbing could not be brushed aside.


"We have to listen. We have to take account. But in fact with a
general election at least two years away, it's all to play for,"
he wrote.


"We can come back. We have to show confidence and belief and
above all a determination to fight."


But newspapers cast doubt on whether Brown could revive Labour's
fortunes.


"His profile is flat, he seems to have nothing fresh to say and
he appears anything but a winner," said the Sunday Express.


"Having spent so many years in Blair's shadow, Brown is incapable
of offering anything new."


The News of the World's only demand was: "Deliver the achievable
and give us back a hope that lasts."


The Sunday Times called Brown "the unknown PM."


"What the voters do not know is where the prime minister-
designate stands on most of the issues that matter to them," its
editorial said, calling him a "blank sheet of paper."


"He should start to fill in some of the details, although in the
absence of a serious challenger for the Labour leadership he will
be under no serious pressure to do so."


Home Secretary John Reid, a Blair loyalist, was the last cabinet
heavyweight to consider standing.


But The Sunday Telegraph and The Observer newspapers said he was
to announce he will back Brown, effectively clearing the way for
Brown's coronation, as only a token left-winger will stand
against him.


Work and Pensions Secretary John Hutton was also to back Brown's
bid Sunday.


Blair and Brown were at the heart of "New Labour," ditching
socialism for a centre-left approach that saw the party sweep to
power in 1997.


But their relationship has soured since, particularly over
Brown's reported perception that Blair reneged on a deal to hand
over power to him after a second term in office.


Brown's supporters, allegedly with his blessing, mounted a "mini-
coup" last September amid heightened tensions within Labour over
Blair's foreign policy, forcing the 53-year-old premier to say he
would quit within a year.

