

Fulham caretaker-manager Lawrie Sanchez insists his latest
success over Liverpool does not guarantee Premiership survival.


Sanchez famously scored the winning goal for Wimbledon over the
Reds in the 1988 FA Cup final, but it was USA international Clint
Dempsey who made the vital breakthrough at Craven Cottage to move
Fulham four points clear of the relegation zone.


If Charlton do not win against Tottenham on Monday then Fulham
will be definitely be playing in English football's top division
next campaign.


However, Sanchez is not taking his side's position for granted
ahead of their final match of the season at Middlesbrough next
weekend.


"It is still possible that we could be relegated," he said. "But
all the teams below us would need to win on the last day of the
season. I will not be celebrating until we are safe.


"I told the players that before today they had only played well
in one half of all the games so far but we put it together for
all of this game. We also kept a clean sheet, which was nice. It
is all about doing those things right."


Liverpool rested nine players from the side which defeated
Chelsea in the Champions League semi-finals during midweek, with
only Jermaine Pennant and Jose Reina keeping their places.


Reds manager Rafael Benitez was left furious after this encounter
though, as he feels Fulham's physical approach took its toll on
his players.


Xabi Alonso claims to be the victim of a headbutt from Fulham
captain Michael Brown, while Alvaro Arbeloa picked up an ankle
problem, Mohamed Sissoko has a knee injury, and Jose Reina
strained his shoulder.


"Michael Brown's headbutt was clear," Benitez said. "I don't know
if the FA will take action when they see the replay.


"I have four players in the dressing room now who are injured
now. We spend a lot of money in this league on electronic
assistance. We have four referees and no one saw anything.


"We might as well save money on the fourth referee and spend it
on the academies. I have Reina, Sissoko, Arbeloa and Alonso all
injured. Some of them will need to have scans."


Liverpool started this game the better side and Craig Bellamy
went close with two shots inside the first eight minutes.


Fulham's Italian forward Vincenzo Montella had an overhead kick
diverted away from goal on 22 minutes, but it was an overall
disappointing half for the home side.


Robbie Fowler missed Liverpool's best opportunity of the first
half, as he diverted the ball away from goal just five yards out.


Montella was replaced by Dempsey on 52 minutes as Sanchez
attempted a new approach in breaking down Liverpool's defence.


Although Fulham increased their tempo in the final third they
still lacked a killer instinct around the penalty area, and it
was Liverpool who forced the next real opportunity as Niemi saved
well from Bellamy on 63 minutes.


Fulham eventually made a breakthrough though, and indeed it was
Dempsey who started and finished the move.


The midfielder collected the ball in the centre of the field on
69 minutes, before charging forward and releasing Liam Rosenior
down the right flank.


The cross from the wing was perfect, and Dempsey continued his
run to steer the ball to Reina's right hand side to put Fulham in
front.


Liverpool did not hand over the points easily, though. Harry
Kewell was introduced, and when Liverpool did find the net
through defender Gabriel Paletta on 84 minutes, it was ruled
offside.


Fulham's Papa Bouba Diop was sent off in the final seconds for a
second bookable ofence as he brought down Sissoko.


The last word on the victory was left to Sanchez, who still hopes
to gain the job full-time for next season.


"Clint [Dempsey] has been on the verges of the team since he came
over in the transfer window," he said. "He has been good in
training and chomping at the bit to get on and prove he can offer
something to Fulham.


"I let the players celebrate in the dressing room at the end and
the Chairman, Mohamed Al Fayed, came in to say well done to
everyone. Now we will have a couple of days off and prepare for
Middlesbrough."

