

South Korea and the European Union on Sunday declared the formal
launch of free trade talks to combine Asia's third largest
economy and the world's largest trading bloc.


The first round of talks opens in Seoul on Monday, EU Trade
Commissioner Peter Mandelson and South Korean Minister of State
Kim Hyun-Chong said in a joint news conference.


The negotiations, if concluded, would create a bilateral free
trade area where two-way trade reached almost 80 billion dollars
last year.


The 27-member EU remains the biggest foreign investor in South
Korea, investing 4.97 billion dollars last year alone, according
to Seoul's foreign ministry.


The EU was South Korea's second largest trading partner after
China last year, with trade reaching 78.56 billion dollars,
according to the ministry.


The EU's 2005 economy totalled 13.5 trillion dollars (9.9
trillion euros), bigger than the US gross domestic product of
12.5 trillion dollars, according to the International Monetary
Fund.


The two ministers called "for rapid progress in the FTA (free
trade agreement) negotiations" in a joint statement, as Seoul
officials said they hoped to conclude the deal within one year.


An FTA "would open new markets and expand opportunities for
Korean and EU businesses while giving valuable momentum to
liberalisation of global trade," the statement said


South Korea is hoping to boost exports of cars, microchips,
electronic goods and textiles to the EU.


Seoul officials also say they expect a free trade pact with EU to
help alleviate a trade deficit with Japan, from which South
Korean electronics firms now import many of their high-tariff
parts and machinery.


Mandelson said Sunday the EU was pushing for an "ambitious and
balanced" pact with South Korea, addressing not only liberalising
goods and services but also removing various non-tariff issues
for its investors.


He also said for the European Union to launch the trade talks
with South Korea signified a shift to fast-growing Asia.


"For the EU, it represents a turning towards a stronger focus on
Asia," Mandelson told reporters in the media conference.


His South Korean counterpart Kim said his country would
eventually serve as "an FTA hub in Northeast Asia" for the world.


"The opening of our market is not a matter of choice but a matter
of survival," Kim said in a strong commitment to South Korea's
liberalisation.


South Korea wrapped up a free trade agreement with the United
States last month. It has also signed FTAs with Chile and
Singapore and one with the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, excluding Thailand, will take effect on June 1.


It is reportedly close to a pact with Canada and in June is set
to begin a second feasibility study with China on a potential
deal.


Seoul officials have said they expect the EU-South Korean free
trade negotiations to exclude such sensitive areas as rice or
film markets.


"As the chief negotiator for South Korea, I would like to
conclude a deal with the EU within a year," Deputy Trade Minister
Kim Han-Soon was quoted by Yonhap as saying Saturday.

