

Insurgents detonated a powerful car bomb in a Baghdad market on
Sunday, shattering a short-lived lull in violence on a day that
saw at least 36 Iraqis killed in attacks around the country.


The blast killed 29 people and wounded 63 as shrapnel scythed
through a crowd in the Bayaa neighbourhood, a mainly Shiite
district lying on one of the city's many dangerous sectarian
faultlines.


At the same time, farther north in the Sunni city of Samarra,
militants mounted a fierce attack on a police station with a car
bomb and automatic fire, killing six officers and triggering a
street battle with US forces.


Both attacks bear the hallmarks of Iraq's Sunni insurgent groups,
in particular Al-Qaeda's Iraqi offshoot, who have reacted to a
US-Iraq security crackdown by unleashing a spate of deadly
suicide bombings.


The Samarra car bomb rammed the gates of the building and
exploded, killing local police chief Colonel Jalil al-Dulaimi and
five of his men and wounding eight others, said police Captain
Ahmed Ali.


US soldiers at a nearby base responded to the attack, killing at
least two insurgents, and two American soldiers sustained minor
wounds in an ensuing firefight, according to an AFP correspondent
in the camp.


Some half dozen seriously wounded Iraqi policemen were evacuated
by helicopter to a US medical facility.


The attack began with volleys of gunfire directed at the base at
9:00 am, followed 15 minutes later by the explosion of the
massive car bomb.


One US Humvee that pursued the attackers was hit by a rocket-
propelled grenade, while the crew of a second reported being
charged by an insurgent wearing a suicide vest, who blew himself
up and damaged the vehicle.


On Saturday, 16 police recruits from the rural areas around Abu
Ghraib were killed when a suicide bomber detonated his vest at a
army recruiting base west of Baghdad.


And on Thursday, three police stations and coalition outposts
were attacked simultaneously by gunfire and car bombs farther
west, resulting in the deaths of five civilians and the
disappearance of one police officer.


Iraq's government wants to match its successes against insurgents
in the western province of Anbar, where a tribal coalition has
turned against Al-Qaeda and is sending its members to bolster
local security forces.


Al-Qaeda has responded by targeting police stations and
recruiting centres.


On Saturday, interior ministry operations director Brigadier
General Abdel Karim Khalaf said Iraq plans to boost locally
recuited security forces in Anbar to 21,000 from its current
level of 9,000.


Residents of the east Baghdad Shiite slum of Sadr City reported a
pre-dawn US- Iraqi raid on Sunday that put at least six people
into hospital and damaged two houses and numerous cars.


Iraqi police and local eyewitnesses reported at least one
fatality, up to eight people wounded and several houses damaged
in what they called an "air strike."


"We were sleeping and we heard aircraft, both helicopters and
planes, flying over us very low and there was lots of shooting so
we lay down on the ground," said local resident Abu Hammad,
adding that it took place around 3:00 am.


Residents said the hour-long operation involved Iraqi special
forces.


The US military reported that the raid was against an Iranian-
backed armed cell involved in making armour-piercing explosives
to target US forces, and estimated between eight and 10 gunmen
were killed.


"Coalition Forces destroyed a torture room, a large cache of
weapons and improvised explosive device-making materials Sunday
morning while targeting terrorists in Sadr City," said the
statement.


South of the capital, in the notorious "triangle of death," a
bomb exploded in a busy marketplace in the restive town of
Iskandiriyah, wounding 10 people, two of them seriously, police
Lieutenant Karim al-Wael said.


Late on Saturday, Captain Salam Zankana of the Kirkuk police told
AFP that three mortar shells hit a southern neighbourhood of the
northern oil city killing one woman and wounding four others,
among them a child.


US and Iraqi forces were also conducting raids in the town of
Yathrib, in the Sunni heartland province of Salaheddin near
Samarra, in the wake of Saturday's assassination of police
Colonel Jabbar al-Tamimi.


In the Shiite shrine city of Karbala, south of the capital,
eyewitnesses reported seeing a member of the former ruling Baath
party gunned down on Sunday morning. The morgue confirmed
receiving the bullet-riddled body.

