

British Prime Minister Tony Blair is expected to finally announce
his resignation this week against a backdrop of good and bad
news, highlighting the likely ambiguity of his legacy.


Blair is widely expected to make a statement on his future either
Wednesday or Thursday, in the afterglow of the revival of
Northern Ireland's devolved government Tuesday following its
suspension in 2002.


His success in helping persuade Ian Paisley's Protestant
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to team up in a coalition with
its arch foes, Gerry Adams's Catholic Sinn Fein, is seen as a
high point of his premiership.


But Blair's hopes of a glorious farewell after 10 years in office
were dashed last week when his governing Labour Party was given a
bloody nose in Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English
and Scottish local council elections.


The results have been seen as a protest against both Blair, whose
popularity nose-dived after the invasion of Iraq, and his likely
successor, the prickly finance minister Gordon Brown, who has
been waiting impatiently in the wings for years.


"Mr Blair leaves his party weakened, nationally and locally," The
Independent newspaper said in an editorial Saturday.


"A full-blown crisis of credibility and constitution may not yet
be upon us, but Mr Brown's first weeks at Number 10 will have
this shadow over them."


Brown is likely to face some sleepless nights as the Scottish
National Party (SNP), which has promised a referendum on
independence from the United Kingdom, attempts to build a
coalition government with other parties in Edinburgh.


Having said he does not want to work with a leader who wants to
end the 300 -year-old union, as SNP chief Alex Salmond does,
Scotsman Brown now faces the threat that this issue will
overshadow his likely coronation in July.


Given the current cordial relations between the DUP and Sinn
Fein, Brown seems unlikely to face any such concerns about events
in Belfast.


Even a few months ago, the idea that Paisley, who will become
first minister, and Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, a convicted
terrorist who is his deputy-in- waiting, could work together was
virtually unthinkable.


But now they have dropped the sectarian rhetoric of yesteryear
and will be working together on bread-and-butter issues such as
health, education and water rates -- and pressing Brown for extra
cash to fund devolved government.


It may be coincidence that Blair's resignation announcement comes
so close to the landmark coming together of the DUP and Sinn
Fein.


But an internal Downing Street memo leaked last year suggests
otherwise -- it advised that the premier should leave office
"with the crowds wanting more -- he should be the star who won't
even play that last encore."


Blair, 54, likely has decades ahead of him in politics, either in
a high-profile international job or as head of a "Blair
Foundation" working on areas of particular interest to him, such
as the Middle East, Africa and understanding between faiths.


The Financial Times newspaper reported last week that Blair had
not ruled out bidding for the European Commission presidency in
two years' time, while The Daily Telegraph said he could act as a
Middle East envoy for US President George W. Bush.


Blair's association with peace in Northern Ireland would give him
extra credibility in any such role, on which late-term domestic
election results are likely to have little, if any, bearing.


For Brown, though, getting Labour back on track following its
latest electoral drubbing could make it difficult for him to put
his own stamp on the British premiership after so long in Blair's
shadow.

