

In an emotive message aired Sunday, a Filipino kidnapped with 10
other foreigners in Nigeria said they were being held in the
jungle, beaten up and starved of food.


"We want to see our families... I don't want to die here," the
unidentified hostage said in a recorded telephone appeal for
help.


The eight Filipino labourers and three South Korean executives
were seized Thursday by armed men in Nigeria's oil-rich south
after a shootout at a power plant construction site.


Contact has been made with the gunmen but with little result so
far.


"We are in the forest, there is no tent, no shade, no food, no
water. For three days we are beaten up, I don't know what will
happen next," the hostage said in the message aired on radio DZBB
here.


DZBB radio said it obtained the recording from a colleague of the
Filipinos who had recently returned home and whose mobile
telephone number the hostages called to air their appeal.


All the men work for South Korea's Daewoo Engineering and
Construction.


"Every single time, every single hour is important. They asked us
to call for help," the hostage went on, apparently struggling to
contain his emotions.


"Why? Because our management Daewoo is not doing anything good to
release us."


He urged those listening to take their case to Philippine Foreign
Secretary Alberto Romulo "to facilitate our release immediately."


There were no names mentioned, although a heavily accented voice
could be heard in the background telling the hostage what to say.


It was also not clear what the hostage takers were demanding.


The Philippines' Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA)
was told of the tape but declined to comment until it hears from
negotiators.


OWWA administrator Marianito Roque said talks involving Filipino
diplomats and from Daewoo were underway to secure the freedom of
hostages.


He said the tape would be analysed but indicated it could be a
way for the Nigerian gunmen to exert more pressure. "What you are
hearing is what what the hostage takers want you to hear," Roque
said.


"Negotiations are ongoing between the company and hostage takers.
We would leave (the situation) to the negotiators of the
Philippine embassy and Daewoo in Abuja."


The Koreans and Filipinos were among 26 foreigners who have been
seized on land or sea in Africa's biggest oil-producing nation
since Tuesday.


Eight of them were later released.


Daewoo said it is temporarily closing the construction site, and
evacuated 135 Daewoo employees and 60 Filipino workers after the
kidnapping.


In January, 25 Filipino workers were also abducted in Nigeria in
separate incidents but were all later freed unharmed.


The abductions prompted the Philippines to impose a ban on
sending workers to the oil-producing African state and implement
a repatriation plan for some 4,000 citizens there.


But the man who brought the recorded message to radio DZBB said
the foreign ministry's repatriation plan never got fully off the
ground.


"They told us we would be immediately repatriated batch by batch
and to be implemented in the first two weeks of March. There was
no repatriation," he charged, speaking on condition of anonymity.


"If they had fulfilled their promise, none of this would have
happened," he said.

