

New attacks reported in Afghanistan Sunday took to 15 the number
of police killed in a weekend of violence, including in the
country's west which has seen a surge in unrest.


Eight policemen were killed in a six-hour battle in the western
province of Farah Saturday when Taliban fighters ambushed a
police patrol, the provincial police chief told AFP Sunday.


A US-led coalition statement said 17 rebels were killed in the
fighting, but Sayed Agha Saqeb said only four of their bodies
were recovered from the battlefield.


Another policeman was missing, Saqeb said. "The fighting ceased
when we sent reinforcements," he added.


The attack occurred near the centre of Bakwa district, which was
overrun by Taliban late February. The militants were in control
for less than a day before Afghan security forces drove them out.


The coalition said it assisted the police with close air support
and sent forces to secure the district centre. Four police
vehicles were burned by insurgents, it said.


On Sunday a suicide car bomb exploded near police returning from
Bakwa, wounding one of the men, Saqeb said. Intelligence services
had been tipped off beforehand and security forces were on the
lookout for a bomber.


On Saturday five policemen were killed when a roadside bomb tore
through their vehicle in Ghazni province, another insurgency-
plagued region in southern Afghanistan, a district official said.


Two policemen were also killed in the southern province of
Helmand on Saturday when a suicide bomber blew himself up close
to their convoy, police said. The Taliban claimed responsibility.


Afghan security forces are a main target for insurgents, and
about 150 have been killed so far this year, according to an AFP
tally based on reports.


Most of the violence has been in the south, the birthplace of the
Taliban movement, but attacks in the previously quiet west have
stepped up in recent months.


Police in early April raided a religious school in Farah, near
the town of Bakwa, and arrested 22 people, alleging the madrassa
was involved in organising Taliban suicide attacks and was being
used as a "terrorist centre."


There was a rash of suicide bombings in Farah this year,
including one on March 12 that killed a newly appointed Bakwa
police chief and nine of his men.


The neighbouring province of Herat, on the border with Iran, has
also seen an increase in unrest. US Special Forces and other
foreign and Afghan troops say they killed 136 Taliban fighters in
battles there last weekend.


Separate Afghan and UN reports say, however, that about 50
civilians, including women and children, were killed. An interior
ministry team is expected to announce the findings of its own
investigations soon.

