

Northern Ireland will inaugurate Tuesday the historic power-
sharing government it hopes will finally lock in peace in the
province and bury decades of sectarian bloodshed and terrorism.


The Northern Ireland Assembly, where Protestants and Catholics
will share power, is to be revived after four-and-a-half years
when the peace process at times seemed in limbo.


Firebrand Protestant preacher Ian Paisley is to become the
province's first minister, with Catholic convicted terrorist
Martin McGuinness as his deputy -- a deal which would have been
utterly unthinkable even five years ago.


That the two sides have been able to come together in government
is an extraordinary triumph for years of painstaking progress --
and a triumph the outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair will
be keen to claim as his own.


He and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern were to be present at
Tuesday's ceremony inaugurating the new administration at
Stormont, with Blair, expected to announce his resignation plans
later in the week, hoping to bow out on a high.


Blair wants lasting peace in Northern Ireland to be the
cornerstone of his legacy, rather than the unpopular war in Iraq.
Meanwhile Ahern -- who faces a tough May 24 general election --
could also do with a dose of reflected glory.


The devolved Belfast assembly was created by the April 1998 Good
Friday peace accord which largely ended 30 bloody years of "the
Troubles" between the two communities.


But it was suspended in 2002 when cross-community trust broke
down due to allegations of a spy ring at Stormont and power was
returned to London.


Desperate for success in Northern Ireland before quitting office,
Blair, alongside Ahern, hauled in the province's party leaders in
November last year and issued a final ultimatum: sort it out
among yourselves by March 26 or see the province run from London
indefinitely.


Elections were called on March 7, in which the hardliners in both
communities were emboldened.


Paisley's Democratic Unionists (DUP), a conservative Protestant
party which strongly favours Northern Ireland remaining a part of
the United Kingdom, topped the polls.


Their foes Sinn Fein came second. The Catholic socialists of
Gerry Adams and his number two McGuinness favour integration into
the Republic of Ireland, and are the political wing of the Irish
Republican Army (IRA).


The DUP got four ministries, Sinn Fein three, the Ulster
Unionists (UUP -- moderate Protestant conservatives) two, and the
Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP -- Catholic, moderate)
one.


The IRA renounced violence and dismantled its arsenal in 2005. On
January 28, Sinn Fein recognised the Northern Irish police and
justice system -- a painful and historic step which proved just
about enough to convince the DUP that they were fit for
government.


Both communities were keen to get power back from London.


But Paisley, dubbed "Doctor No" for his decades of intransigence,
took it to the March 26 deadline to say yes to power-sharing --
and only then yes in several weeks' time, and with an improved
financial package to kickstart the province's long-suffering
economy, hence the wait until Tuesday.


Indeed, Paisley, 81, had refused to speak to Adams before their
crunch deadline day meeting.


More than 3,000 people were killed over the three miserable
decades of "The Troubles", many at the hands of the IRA.


But all sides hope the restoration of power-sharing Tuesday will
allow Northern Ireland to start afresh in a new era.


Ireland's Belfast-born President Mary McAleese said Friday there
was a "hint of the miraculous about these hope-filled times."


Veteran US senator Ted Kennedy, at the forefront of the Irish-
American community, will be part of the US delegation at Stormont
on Tuesday.


"A new day has dawned for the people of Northern Ireland,"
Kennedy said recently.


"Northern Ireland has shown the world that peace is possible even
in the face of tragic history and it offers hope for peaceful
reconciliation in other troubled areas of the world."

