

Afghanistan's Taliban has said it will wait until France's
presidential election is completed on Sunday before deciding the
fate of a French hostage and three Afghans abducted more than a
month ago.


A spokesman for the group said it would await the completion of
the poll before making a decision, even though a deadline over
demands it wants met before releasing the captives was due to
expire Saturday.


The winning candidate is likely to be known by the time polls
close at 1800 GMT, which is 10:30 pm in Afghanistan, but
spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi gave no precise time for the expiration
of the new deadline.


"For the sake of the French nation, who have asked for the
Taliban's mercy, we have extended the deadline for the French
hostage and the Afghans until the end of the French elections,"
Ahmadi told AFP by telephone.


The extremist group has said it wants the withdrawal of French
troops or the release of Taliban prisoners in exchange for the
four men.


Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) aid worker Eric
Damfreville and three Afghans working with him were captured in
southwestern Afghanistan on April 3.


A French woman abducted with them, Celine Cordelier, was released
April 28 when the Taliban extended by a week the deadline for its
demands to be met, saying it was aware the French nation was
"busy" with the election.


Ahmadi said a council of elders would decide on the fate of the
four.


Asked if they could be killed as other hostages have been, Ahmadi
said: "The policy of the Taliban movement regarding the foreign
hostages is clear: if our demands are not met, we will act based
on our policy that we have implemented with foreigners so far."


The militants have executed several Afghans, Turks and Indians,
but they have claimed responsibility for only one killing of a
Western hostage, a British engineer in 2005.


Ahmadi told AFP Friday there had been no negotiations for the
four men.


"The deadline is drawing closer every moment," he said. "The
French government and the Afghan government not only have not
accepted our demands, but they even have not tried to contact
us."


President Hamid Karzai said earlier in the week: "We are in close
coordination with France, we are doing everything in that
regard."


The French foreign ministry said in Paris on Friday that "we
consider that all useful and possible contacts must be made" in
the case.


The Afghan government was heavily criticised when it freed five
Taliban prisoners in March in exchange for an Italian journalist
held my the militants for two weeks.


It was a one-off deal that would never be repeated, the
government said afterwards.


One of the men was believed to have been among 10 commanders
killed in battles last weekend in the western province of Herat,
the US-led coalition and Afghan defence ministry said.


Less than a week after the Italian was freed, a medical team that
included Afghan doctors and nurses was captured in southern
Afghanistan. The Taliban has said it has demanded certain
prisoners in exchange for the five.


The Terre d'Enfance group was captured soon afterwards.

