

Pope Benedict XVI embarks Wednesday on his first trip to the
Americas, where a proliferation of evangelical sects poses a
mounting challenge in the Roman Catholic stronghold.


Home to nearly half of the world's 1.1 billion Catholics, Latin
America has heard little from Benedict in his first two years as
pope.


The 80-year-old pontiff has stayed close to home, apart from a
trip in November to Turkey, speaking frequently of his concern
over the erosion of Christian values in Europe.


By contrast, Benedict's globe-trotting predecessor John Paul II
made 18 trips to Latin America and the Caribbean over his long
papacy, including two in his first two years.


Benedict's trip to Brazil, where he will open a conference of
Latin American bishops in Aparecida on May 13, is seen as a test
of the dedicated theologian's ability to operate outside the
European context.


It is likely to further highlight the cerebral Benedict's
difference in style from his charismatic predecessor.


"People will like him, they will have a positive experience, but
it's not going to be the kind of rapture you saw with John Paul
II," said Vatican expert John Allen of the National Catholic
Reporter, a US-based weekly.


"He's going to be kind, he's going to be gracious, he's going to
smile a lot, but he's not going to get out a guitar and sing,"
Allen told AFP.


Latin American bishops are expected to discuss the rise of
evangelical sects in the region, as well as poverty and exclusion
and the impact of globalisation.


Brazilian prelate Claudio Hummes, archbishop of Sao Paulo, raised
the alarm about shrinking Church numbers in October, 2005,
asking: "How much longer will Latin America still be a Catholic
continent?"


Hummes, whom Benedict appointed to the prestigious office of
prefect of the Congregation for the Clergy last year, said the
Brazilian Catholic Church had declined from 83 percent of the
population in 1991 to 67 percent in 2005.


The Church's stand against divorce and remarried Catholics
receiving communion -- reaffirmed in March -- is a major factor
prompting Catholics to leave for Pentecostal sects, several
bishops noted.


The pope "is very critical of Latin American Catholicism, which
touches society in a superficial way and doesn't have missionary
zeal," Italian Vatican watcher Sandro Magister told AFP.


"He also thinks that liberation theology, by reducing the
Christian message to a political dimension, has left the field
open to Pentecostal spirituality," Magister said.


The Vatican warned Spanish Jesuit priest Jon Sobrino, a leading
exponent of liberation theology, over his writings in March,
saying they contained "notable discrepancies with the faith of
the Church."


Liberation theology, popular across Latin America, focuses on
Christ as the liberator of the oppressed and emphasises the
Christian mission to bring justice to the poor.


Benedict's visit begins in Sao Paolo, where the pope will hold an
"encounter with young people" at a stadium on Thursday and
canonise an 18th-century Franciscan monk, Antonio de Sant'Anna
Galvao, on Friday.


Galvao will be Brazil's first native-born saint.


On Sunday, Benedict will celebrate an open-air mass in Aparecida,
a sanctuary city whose immense basilica enshrines Brazil's patron
saint and is one of the most visited in the world.


Benedict's perceived neglect of Latin America has been a source
of frustration for a region undergoing economic, political and
religious upheavals amid a widening gap between rich and poor.


"But the problems of Latin America are not fundamentally, in the
eyes of this pope, different from those facing Christianity in
the rest of the world," said Magister.


The pope has frequently urged Catholic lawmakers to resist
lobbyists on social issues, indirectly targetting Mexico,
Colombia, El Salvador and Chile, which have relaxed abortion
laws, and major Latin American cities including Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paolo that have legalised same-sex unions.


Benedict, as Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, was head of the Vatican's
doctrinal enforcement body for 24 years.

