

After two grim warnings on the impact of climate change, the
world's top experts were unusually upbeat in assessing ways to
protect the Earth, but said that national leaders have no time to
waste.


The report delivered by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, the UN's top authority on the subject which met in
Bangkok last week, said humanity could at least slow global
warming with existing, affordable technology.


But the experts warned that time was of the essence to ward off
the most destructive effects of climate change.


"We believe that human beings are capable of reducing the
problems that we may get on climate change," Ogunlade Davidson,
the co-chair of the meeting, told AFP.


"The only difficulty is to get the political will to do that," he
said.


The report following the IPCC's Bangkok meeting was its third of
the year.


The first, released in Paris in February, found it highly likely
that global temperatures would rise by 1.8 to 4.0 degrees Celsius
(3.2 to 7.2 Farenheit) over the next century.


However, it also warned that temperatures could even climb by 6.4
degrees C (11.52 F).


A second report in Brussels in April highlighted the catastrophic
damage that global warming could cause, including the extinction
of up to 30 percent of animal and plant life.


The first two reports offered little good news, but this one is
different, said Davidson.


"The third assessment says there are possible solutions and you
can do it at a reasonable cost," he said.


The options laid out covered simple measures like switching to
energy efficient light bulbs and adjusting the thermostat in the
office.


But they also included extremely controversial and complex
techniques such as nuclear power, and the storing of carbon
dioxide -- the major greenhouse gas -- underground instead of
letting it spew into the atmosphere.


Renewable energies, such as wind, solar and biofuel, were
highlighted as an important part of the mix, while the experts
said putting a price on using the fossil fuels that produce
greenhouse gases was important.


The 400 delegates from some 120 countries who met last week in
Bangkok were tasked with drafting a summary of their extensive
research to guide policymakers in deciding how to tackle climate
change.


"We will be forced to take decisions, because information about
(the risks of) inaction is getting ... to many people," Davidson
said.


Stephan Singer, European head of climate and energy with the
World Wildlife Fund, said the report showed "for the first time
that stopping climate pollution in a very ambitious way does not
cost a fortune."


"There is no excuse for any government to argue that it is going
to cause their economy to collapse," he said, adding that
political leaders needed to be pressed to take action "starting
Monday."


According to the report, taking measures to stop global
temperatures from rising more than about 2.0 degrees C (3.6 F)
would shave only around 0.12 percentage points off annual global
economic growth in the coming decades.


Greenpeace said the report demanded a "serious political
response" from world leaders.


"I think that we could use many of the elements in this document"
during the next round of multilateral talks on climate change,
Marc Gillet, the head of the French delegation, told AFP.


Climate change is expected to be among the top priorities on the
agenda when leaders of the world's most industrialised countries
meet at the Group of Eight Summit in Germany in June.


EU Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas has already called for
new talks on a climate change pact at a UN ministerial meeting
set for December on the Indonesian holiday island of Bali.


European nations hope the United States and rapidly developing
countries like Brazil, India and China -- which did not join the
existing Kyoto Protocol on climate change -- will agree to reduce
their emissions of greenhouse gases under a new accord.

