

A record-breaking performance by the rampaging Northern Bulls
complemented another Sharks win in a stellar weekend for South
African rugby as they clinched the Super 14 home semi-finals.


The Sharks became the first South African side to finish on top
of the table when they beat the Western Stormers 36-10, after the
previous pacesetters, the Canterbury Crusaders, fell 24-30 to the
Waikato Chiefs.


Then in the final match before the play-offs the Bulls burst from
sixth to second as they whipped the hapless Queensland Reds by a
seemingly impossible 92-3 to get them past the Crusaders and
Auckland Blues on points difference.


It was the biggest winning margin in Super rugby, beating the 77
points when the Crusaders beat the NSW Waratahs 96-19 in 2002,
and meant the Crusaders and Blues now fly to the republic for
next weekend's semi-finals.


In the closest of all Super competitions, the Sharks ended on top
with 45 points from their 13 matches.


The next three sides all finished three points in arrears on 42,
with the Bulls' massive win over the Reds giving them a points
difference of plus 165, compared to the Crusaders' plus 147 and
the Blues' plus 120.


Bulls captain Victor Matfield rated his side's 13-try scoreline
as a "truly awesome" performance.


"Last Monday we set our sights on winning by 45 points and
finishing third, but by Friday we changed our minds and felt a
72-point winning margin was within our grasp," said Matfield.


"It all began with the basics, the scrums, lineouts and tackling.
After that our attacking mindset came into play and we patiently
worked our way to the massive points total."


In next weekend's semi-finals the Bulls play the Crusaders in
Pretoria while the Sharks are at home in Durban to the Blues.


The Sharks are the first South Africa side to finish top of the
table in the 12 years of Super rugby, while it is the first time
South Africa have had two sides in the semi-finals and the first
time since 1999 that they has hosted a play-off match.


Now there is the real chance they will host the final for the
first time and perhaps claim the crown that has previously only
been won by New Zealand and Australian teams -- the Crusaders
(six titles), Blues (three) and Brumbies (two).


The Sharks deservedly finished on top, being the only side to win
10 of their 13 games while the Bulls and Blues won nine and the
Crusaders eight, although the red-and-blacks benefited from 10
bonus points.


But the Crusaders have looked out of sorts as the competition
neared the business end in the past two weeks, losing to the
Brumbies and then the Chiefs.


The Blues were heading down the same track, losing three in a row
before staying in the top four with a timely 33-6 win over the
Western Force.


However, it was not a weekend to savour for New Zealand, after
the Crusaders failed to snare a home semi-final the Brumbies and
Waratahs denied All Blacks legends Anton Oliver and Tana Umaga
winning farewells from Super rugby.


The Brumbies ended a disappointing year for Australia with a
29-10 win over Oliver's Otago Highlanders in Dunedin putting them
in fifth place on points differential over the Chiefs.


The Waratahs, who ended second-to-last, pulled off only their
third win of the season when they beat Umaga's Wellington
Hurricanes 38-14.


In the weekend's remaining match, a South African local derby
between the Central Cheetahs and Golden Lions, the Cheetahs edged
ahead of the Lions into 11th place with a 16-10 win.

