

Pope Benedict XVI has so far in his two-year-old papacy not shown
himself nearly as keen to hop on the papal plane as his
predecessor John Paul II, who visited 129 countries over his
nearly 27 years as pontiff.


Benedict's May 9-13 trip to Brazil will be his sixth outside
Italy and only the second outside Europe, following his November
trip to Turkey.


By contrast, John Paul II's first two years took him to 15
countries in Europe, Africa and Latin America.


Benedict went to Turkey for a meeting with Ecumenical Patriarch
of Constantinople, Bartholomew I, but the trip turned into a
fence-mending mission after he outraged the Muslim world with
remarks seeming to link Islam with violence.


While in Istanbul, he made a stunning conciliatory gesture by
assuming an attitude of Muslim prayer while facing Mecca in the
Blue Mosque.


Benedict has twice visited his native Germany -- the first time
to Cologne for World Youth Days in August 2005, and the second
time in September last year to Bavaria where he made the
controversial remarks on Islam.


In May 2006 the pontiff travelled to Poland, the homeland of his
revered predecessor, where he paid an emotive visit to Auschwitz.


In July last year, Benedict went to Valencia, Spain, for an
international Catholic congress on the family.


Two future trips have been scheduled: one to Austria in September
for the 850th anniversary of the Mariazell basilica near Vienna,
and another to Australia in July 2008 for the next World Youth
Days.


Benedict has accepted an invitation from UN Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon to visit the United Nations in New York, but no date has
been set.


The Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority have both
invited the pontiff to visit, but the Vatican has said political
conditions do not yet allow for such a trip.


The pope may go to Lourdes, France, next year for the 150th
anniversary of the apparitions of the Virgin Mary to a shepherd
girl, Bernadette Soubirous. A trip to Strasbourg to visit the
European Parliament is also under consideration.

