

World number two Rafael Nadal, the undisputed king of clay,
begins the defence of his Rome Masters title here on Monday.


The 20-year-old Spaniard, who extended his record clay court
winning streak to 72 matches when he won the Barcelona Open last
month, is aiming to become the first player to win the Foro
Italico tournament - a warm-up for the French Open which starts
on May 27 - three times in a row.


Last year Nadal saved two match points before defeating Roger
Federer in an epic final which lasted five hours and five
minutes.


The match was so exhausting that both players pulled out of the
Masters event in Hamburg the following week, prompting the ATP to
introduce the best of three sets finals for the Masters Series.


Nadal, who defeated Federer in the Monte Carlo final last month
and in last year's French Open final, was also taken to five sets
in 2005 in his defeat of Argentina's Guillermo Coria.


If results go according to seedings, Nadal will meet world number
one Federer in this year's final. The pair are on opposite sides
of the draw, with Federer top seed and Nadal number two.


Federer, who has failed to win a Masters Series event this year,
has never won the Rome tournament. As well as being runner-up
last year, he lost the 2003 final to Spain's Felix Mantilla.


The Swiss 25-year-old arrived in the Italian capital last weekend
and has been put through his paces by coach Tony Roche. He made a
brief trip to Mallorca in Spain to play in a one-off 'battle of
the surfaces' exhibition match against Nadal where one half of
the court was grass and the other half clay.


Nadal, whose last defeat on clay was way back in April, 2005
against Russian Igor Andreev in the Valencia quarter-finals,
edged grass giant Federer 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (12/10).


The top eight seeds in Rome - Federer, Nadal, Andy Roddick,
Nikolay Davydenko, Novak Djokovic, Fernando Gonzalez, Tommy
Robredo, Ivan Ljubicic - have first round byes.


Federer's first match will be against either Britain's Tim Henman
or Spain's Nicolas Almagro. Nadal will play the winner of the
first round tie between American Robby Ginepri and Italy's
Daniele Bracciali.

