

Thai ace Boonsak Ponsana stunned China's Chen Yu to win the
Singapore Open Sunday as women's world number one Xie Xingfang
was battered into submission by veteran Chinese teammate Zheng
Ning.


Boonsak, 25, came into the tournament unseeded but the style in
which he beat the world's top player Lin Dan in the quarter-
finals made people sit up and take notice.


His 21-17, 21-14 demolition of shellshocked world number seven
Chen put the icing on the cake for what was the biggest victory
of his career.


"I am just so happy," said a delirious Boonsak, who dropped to
his knees pumping his fists after the 36-minute mauling.


"I want to be a champion again," he added, already looking ahead
to the Indonesia Open in the coming week, the sixth leg of the
badminton Super Series.


It was a tournament to forget for China as the wheels came off
its traditionally dominant juggernaut.


Not only did Chen fail Sunday but a sullen Lin was forced to
watch his girlfriend Xie humbled by Zheng at the Singapore Indoor
Stadium.


It was a flawless performance by Zheng, 32, who took the first
game 21-18 before dropping the second 19-21, committing her only
two errors of the match before regrouping to demolish Xie in the
final game.


Zheng won 17 points in a row to win 21-3, a lopsided score rarely
seen in top level badminton and virtually unheard of against Xie.


The supremely confident victory handed Zheng her fifth Singapore
title while accumulating crucial qualifying points for the
Beijing Olympics.


The Singapore tournament is the first event of the year offering
Olympic points, with qualifying running until May 2008.


"I just love Singapore," said an ecstatic Zheng to thunderous
applause as a glum Xie looked on.


In the opening final of the day, Chinese top seeds Zhang Yawen
and Wei Yili recovered from a first game lesson by teammates Zhao
Tingting and Yang Wei to fight back and win the women's doubles
crown 10-21, 21-19, 21-18.


Indonesian pair Flandy Limpele and Vita Marissa, seeded eight,
beat Thailand's third seeded Sudket Prapalamol and Saralee
Thoungthongkam 21-14, 21-13 to lift the mixed doubles title.


The men's doubles is played later Sunday.

