

Cape Town mayor Helen Zille was elected the new leader of South
Africa's main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) at a party
congress in Midrand near Johannesburg on Sunday.


Zille saw off a challenge from the party's national chairman Joe
Seremane and DA Eastern Cape leader Athol Trollip, but the amount
of votes each had received was not known.


The announcement of her victory -- which would see her take over
the reigns of the liberalist party from retiring veteran Tony
Leon -- was met with thunderous applause, ululation and chants of
her name.


Zille has been at the helm of Cape Town for the past year -- the
only major South African municipality not governed by the
nationally ruling African National Congress (ANC).


Zille first came to prominence when she helped expose events
behind the killing of black rights activist Steve Biko in police
custody while working as a journalist 30 years ago, later
becoming a provincial education minister.


Her experience as mayor of Cape Town has earned her respect as a
competent administrator who understands the need for the main
opposition party to appeal across the racial spectrum.


"Our biggest challenge in this country is the politics of
identity ... to break away from the shackles of race," Zille said
as she announced her candidacy last month.


Issues of race and culture were central to the leadership race
with Seremane, a black man with a political background steeped in
the anti-apartheid struggle, reiterating the need for the party
to become more representative.


Trollip made headlines when he described himself as white outside
and black on the inside.


Both Zille and Trollip speak the Xhosa indigenous language.


Analysts have said the change of the guard was an opportunity for
the DA to shake off its white elitist image and appeal to a
broader voter base.


It has a very small share of the black vote, with Leon having
regularly been accused by the ANC of elitism and racism for his
vehement opposition of its policies on issues like affirmative
action and AIDS.


The DA has 57 MPs out of 400 in parliament. Most of its voters
are English and Afrikaans speakers, coloureds (South Africans of
mixed-race) and some Indians.


Leon is retiring after eight years as official leader of the
opposition and 13 of the DA and its predecessor, the Democratic
Party.

