

The Scottish National Party, which backs pulling Scotland out of
the UK, was to continue talks on forming a coalition government
Sunday, despite an early setback in its search for a willing
partner.


The Liberal Democrats, the SNP's most obvious coalition partner,
unanimously agreed not to support a referendum on independence
from the United Kingdom -- the SNP's raison d'etre.


The SNP won a landmark victory in Thursday's elections,
overtaking British Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party by
one seat in the Scottish Parliament, the first time Labour has
been runner-up in one of its traditional heartlands since 1955.


But the SNP faces having to concede ground on its key referendum
demands if it wants to form a government.


Following a meeting Saturday of the Lib Dems' parliamentary
group, Nicol Stephen, the party's leader in Scotland, said: "The
group agreed that the largest party has the right to seek to form
an administration either through a coalition or as a minority."


But he added: "The result of the election shows there is no
demand or mandate for independence ... Therefore the group agreed
unanimously that we will not support a referendum on
independence."


A coalition between the SNP (47 seats), the Lib Dems (16) and the
Greens (two) would secure the 65 seats needed for a majority in
the 126-member Edinburgh parliament, which has powers over areas
including health and education.


The Labour-Lib Dem coalition which has ruled Scotland for the
last eight years could continue as a minority government if the
SNP fails to find willing partners.


If no agreement on forming a new Scottish government is struck by
May 30, a new election will have to be held.


SNP leader Alex Salmond told reporters Saturday: "We are still to
have discussions over the next few days and we'll approach them
constructively.


"We've had conversations informally, but there's been no formal
negotiations as yet."


If the SNP forms the next Scottish government, it may create a
headache for Gordon Brown, if, as expected, he takes over from
Blair as British prime minister within a few months.


Brown, a unionist Scot, could face an awkward cohabitation as he
has vowed not to work with a Scottish leader who wants to end the
300-year-old union with England and Wales.


Salmond has stressed his willingness to cooperate with Brown.


But if scorned, he would be a dangerous enemy for Brown, The
Observer newspaper said.


Previously, tensions between Edinburgh and London "simmered
behind the closed doors of a Labour Party safe house. Now they
will be played out in public," the weekly said.


"Just at the moment when Mr Brown needs to present himself as a
statesman for all of Britain, he could find himself sucked into
an unseemly partisan brawl of scant relevance" to England.


MPs representing Scottish seats in the British parliament can
vote on affairs that affect England only, such as health and
education, as the Edinburgh parliament decides on those matters
for Scotland.


Labour's former British welfare reform minister Frank Field said
that anomaly could wreck the premiership of Brown, who represents
a Scottish seat.


"He must know he can't stand up in the House (of Commons) and
announce a major reform programme as prime minister that will not
apply to his constituents but only English voters.


"If he tries, the next election is over bar the counting," Field
wrote in The Independent on Sunday newspaper.


"But for him, of all people, to say that only English MPs will
decide English legislation would ensure a political earthquake
both sides of the border."

