

Four players, including overnight leader Nicole Castrale, shared
the lead Saturday after two rounds of the LPGA SemGroup
Championship.


Castrale was joined atop the leaderboard by Sweden's Karen
Sjodin, Stephanie Louden and Reilley Rankin.


Castrale posted an even-par 71 for 138, while Rankin climbed up
the leaderboard with a 68. Loudon carded her second straight 69
and Sjodin joined the leading quartet with a 70.


South Korea's Mi Hyun Kim (68) and Angela Stanford (71) were a
shot back on 139.


It was a further shot back to Australian Katherine Hull (69),
Thailand's Virada Nirapathpongporn (70) and Hall-of-Fame-bound
Korean Se Ri Pak (71).


Castrale's round was highlighted by an eagle two at the par-4
fourth, but she lost sole possession of the lead with bogeys on
15 and 16.


"It was so early in my round when I got the eagle, I was happy
that I was 2-under, and I knew there was a good stretch of holes
coming up and the course was playing tough," said Castrale, wh
holed out with a six-iron from 168 yards.


"I landed on the green, and there was a late reaction, so at
first it scared me," she said of the crowd reaction. "Then
everyone cheered."


Like Sjodin, Castrale said the rain-soaked course was playing
tougher Saturday in swirling winds. Players were facing the
chance of a long day on Sunday, also, with storms in the
forecast.


"I need to make a few more putts tomorrow," Castrale said of what
she'd have to do to break away from the group. "I want to score
better."


In her second full season on tour since turning pro in 2001,
Castrale has two top-10 finishes in 2007, including a fourth-
place tie at the Ginn Open three weeks ago.


Castrale's best finish is a third place last season at the Honda
Classic in Thailand. She made 22 of 26 cuts last year and
finished in the top 10 four times.


Sjodin, a second-year pro, has made three cuts in her first five
tournaments this season as she seeks her first LPGA title.


Louden, who missed the cut twice in her first three events this
season, posted five birdies.


Rankin had three birdies in her bogey-free effort.


Louden said she liked going into the final round with the race
wide open.


"It's fun," she said. "There's birdies to be made out there, and
if you can make some good pars, it makes it fun for the crowd and
the fans. That's what you want.


"That's the best way to watch sports, the game coming down to the
wire."

