

Asia's development bank grappled Sunday with how to remain
relevant in an increasingly rich region without neglecting the
poorest countries.


The Asian Development Bank's president, Haruhiko Kuroda, warned
the lender's board of governors that as Asia transforms so too
must the ADB.


He said Asia now "has new challenges to tackle -- no longer
arising from pervasive poverty, but instead from economic
success."


"A dramatically transformed Asia will also require an equally
transformed development partner in the ADB," he told the opening
of the governors' annual meeting in Kyoto, Japan.


The ADB should play a greater role in regional integration,
making better use of Asia's huge savings, and fostering knowledge
creation, Kuroda added.


Most nations agree that the ADB needs to adapt to ensure it does
not become an outdated institution as much of developing Asia
heads towards middle income status. But there are disagreements
on how to reform.


The idea of the ADB shifting its focus away from traditional
poverty reduction efforts has rattled some of the region's poorer
countries which fear that they will miss out on Asia's impressive
economic growth.


Afghanistan in particular has urged the ADB not to forget its
core objective of battling poverty, while other nations such as
India and Pakistan want the bank to ensure it does not abandon
the most destitute as it revamps.


"The ADB reform process is required," said Pakistan's Finance
Minister Omar Ayub Khan.


"It has to change its focus but I think the poverty focus should
(also) be there," he told AFP on the sidelines of the meeting,
calling on the development bank to take a "balanced" approach on
reform.


Afghanistan's Finance Minister Anwar Ul-haq Ahadi earlier urged
the bank to step up engagement with its poorest members.


"Asia's growth has largely bypassed countries such as
Afghanistan. It is these countries... where the ADB has the
greatest impact," he said.


The four-decade-old ADB is looking for a new role to ensure it is
not forced to close its doors by the end of the next decade, by
which time it expects that most of the region's countries will
have escaped widespread poverty.


But development experts warn that pockets of destitution are
expected to remain and even if many of developing Asia's people
rise above the dollar-a-day poverty line they will still be
scraping to get by on very low incomes.


The ADB's primary role when it was established in 1966 was to
borrow money from the capital markets to lend to developing Asian
economies that might struggle to raise affordable funds on their
own.


But now the region is awash with capital and countries also need
less borrowing to fight absolute poverty.


So the ADB is aiming to spend more money on building
telecommunications networks, new roads and other infrastructure,
and on clean energy projects to try to reduce rising greenhouse
gas emissions.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi called on the ADB to place
more emphasis on science and technology as well as projects to
reduce the region's reliance on fossil fuels.


"The ADB should play a vital role in supporting efforts of the
member countries to achieve energy efficiency," he said.

