

Boxing nearly squandered any benefits from Floyd Mayweather's
split-decision triumph over Oscar de la Hoya here on Saturday by
transposing the colors on the final scorecard for the fight.


The mistake sparked a 15-minute flurry of concern that judges
might have actually awarded de la Hoya a slim victory instead of
Mayweather before officials said the correct outcome had been
determined.


"It's a pretty sad case that you have in such a great event that
kind of bull...," Schaefer said. "This is not what boxing needs."


The final card had the two judges scoring the fight for
Mayweather by 116-112 and 115-113 while the third saw de la Hoya
winning 115-113.


But it mistakenly listed Mayweather fighting out of the red
corner and de la Hoya out of the blue.


That sparked fears the judges had actually scored the fight the
other way by the same scores before Richard Schaefer, chief
executive of Golden Boy Promotions and a former Swiss bank
executive, looked into the matter.


He found that the accurate scores were reported to ringside
officials and only the colors were transposed when preparing the
official card from the numbers provided by judges after every
round.


"Based on the scorecards I was presented with, they were
correctly converted onto the summary scorecard," Schaefer said.


The judges made no protest that their verdicts were announced
incorrectly when the results were announced and such an error
would have to assume judges scored by color choice rather than
the men they were watching.


"It seems it was an honest mistake. It's a small mistake they
made in the overall scorecard," Schaefer said. "It seems to be
OK. My opinion is it stands."


The error does make the perfect springboard for talk of a rematch
between the US rivals only minutes after Mayweather vowed to
retire and de la Hoya said he must analyze the fight replay
before deciding whether or not to continue.


Mayweather, who became a world champion in his fifth different
weight class, improved to 38-0 while de la Hoya, a champion is
six divisions, fell to 38-5 and said he was satisfied the verdict
was accurately rendered.


"He's the champion," de la Hoya said. "You have to respect that.
You leave it to the judges. It is their responsibility."

