

Former Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed has accused
the government of betrayal and deliberate delay of elections
ahead of her planned return to the country, a report said Sunday.


Hasina is expected to arrive in the capital Dhaka at 4:00 pm
(1100 GMT) on Monday more than a week after the government
scrapped plans to exile her, after earlier barring her return
from the United States via Britain where she was refused
permission to board a flight.


"The biggest betrayal was that they would not let me return to
the country," Hasina said in an interview with the Bangladeshi
New Age newspaper at her London residence. "I am literally seeing
the betrayal unfold in front of my very eyes. I was shocked by
the way they treated me."


The emergency government lifted a ban on Hasina's return last
Wednesday and also abandoned plans to force the exile of the most
recent prime minister, Khaleda Zia, who remains in Bangladesh.


The country has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January when the president declared a state of emergency and
cancelled elections planned for January 22 after massive protests
by Hasina's Awami League party over alleged corruption of the
voting system.


After taking power the new government launched a nationwide
crackdown on graft, arresting more than 50 top politicians of the
two main parties and said new polls would not be held until late
2008 as voting reform was needed.


"We also had hoped that elections would be held earlier than
later," Hasina told the newspaper on Sunday.


"But what we see now is that not only have they not done anything
substantive to hold the elections in the near future but they are
also trying to delay the elections for as long as it takes."


Hasina was prime minister between 1996 and 2001.


She was charged with murder and extortion last month but police
have suspended a warrant for her arrest pending further
investigations relating to the four deaths in political unrest
last year.


But police said Hasina could still be arrested over an extortion
case filed by the Bangladeshi head of a Malaysian company.

