

New York auction houses are anticipating record offers for works
by Andy Warhol and Francis Bacon over the next two weeks as
contemporary art catches up to impressionist works with
astronomical bids.


One year after the one billion dollar mark was broken for the
first time, the feat could be repeated during the May 8-17 spring
sales as rival auction houses Sotheby's and Christie's hope to
make record sales again.


Five Gustav Klimt paintings were sold for a total of 327 million
dollars last year, while a trademark drip-style Jackson Pollock
painting broke a world record by fetching 140 million dollars.


Wealthy collectors appear to be ready to reach into their deep
pockets again this year.


Christie's is highlighting its May 16 auction as "the most
valuable post-war and contemporary art evening sale ever to take
place," with sales projected to reach between 225 million and 300
million dollars that evening alone.


Ten Warhol painting will go under the hammer, including "Green
Car Crash (Green Burning Car I)" (1963), which could sell for
between 25 million and 35 million dollars, beating the previous
record for his work.


Last November, a billionaire from Hong Kong bought the American
artist's "Mao" painting for 17.4 million dollars.


Considered "the Holy Grail by a legion of contemporary art
collectors," according ot Christie's, "Green Car Crash" has been
kept in the same hands for more than 30 years.


Another masterpiece put on sale, "Lemon Marilyn," one of Warhol's
portraits of Marilyn Monroe, is estimated to be worth  more than
18 million dollars. Completed in 1962, the canvas was part of the
first one-man show in New York, where it was bought by the
current owners.


At Sotheby's, sales of contemporary art on May 15 promise to be
as lucrative as sales of paintings by impressionist masters.


Mark Rothko's painting "White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender
on Rose)," part of the collection of New York philanthropist
David Rockefeller since 1960, is expected to bring in more than
40 million dollars.


The current sales record for the American painter stands at 22.4
million dollar, paid at the end of 2005 for his painting "Hommage
a Matisse."


It was a worldwide record for the artist, as well as a record for
a post-war art auction sale.


Less than two years later, the market has boomed well beyond such
figures.


On May 15, Sotheby's should sell a Bacon, "Study from Pope
Innocent X" (1962), a painting based on a series created by 17th
century Spanish master Diego Velazquez, for more than 30 million
dollars.


The current record for the British painter stands at 27.6
million.


A Pollock painting, "Number 16", is also featured in the catalog
and is expected to sell for between 18 million and 25 million
dollars.


A Robert Rauschenberg painting, "Photograph," is listed at
between 10 million and 15 million dollars.


"Contemporary art prices increase season after season," said
Bendetta Roux, a spokeswoman for Christie's.


"We base our analysis on prices seen in past seasons and on the
private market such as private galleries," she said. "We feel
that potential buyers are very present and active, and we feel
very confident."


Experts say the boom in art sales is fueled by the appearance of
emerging markets in China, Russia and India, new fortunes made in
America, a new generation of young buyers with different tastes,
and economic optimism.


Sales of modern and impressionist art are nevertheless expected
to remain strong.


On May 9, Christie's awaits a record for a painting by Juan Gris,
"Pot de geranium," that, according to estimates, will fetch
between 14 million and 18 million dollars.


On May 8 at Sotheby's, a Paul Cezanne painting, "Nature morte au
melon vert," and a Pablo Picasso work, "Tete d'Arlequin," are
expected to bring in between 14 million and 18 million dollars
each.


The auction house expects sales of impressionist paintings to
reach between 218 million and to 295 million dollars that evening
alone.

