

Despite a sputtering US economy, the Federal Reserve is likely to
hold fire on interest rates as it waits for either an easing of
inflation or a pickup in growth, analysts say.


No change in rates is expected at Wednesday's meeting of the US
central bank's Federal Open Market Committee, which has held its
base rate steady at 5.25 percent since last June.


Yet some analysts are still holding out hope that the Fed will
open the door to a rate cut sometime this year if conditions
continue to soften.


Some recent data have been surprisingly sluggish: gross domestic
product (GDP) for the first quarter was a tepid 1.3 percent, and
April produced a net gain of just 88,000 new payroll jobs.


Meanwhile US home sales showed their biggest monthly fall in over
18 years in March, suggesting that the biggest drag on US
economic activity is not over.


But other recent data have been firmer: surveys on manufacturing
and services have been above expectations, and factory orders
rose 3.1 percent in March.


Inflation indicators remain a bit too hot for the Fed, which had
brought rates up after of a long period of stimulation since
2001. Consumer prices were up 0.6 percent in March even though
"core" prices excluding food and energy have been tamer.


Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors said he remained
"hopeful, though not overly confident," about a message
suggesting rates may be headed lower.


"There is little doubt that no change will be made in rates,"
Naroff said.


But he added that "the softer job gains and slowing wage
increases would allow the (FOMC) members to hint at a potential
rate cut. But they have not been that forthcoming in their
comments so I suspect there may be some disagreement on how to
proceed."


Gary Thayer, chief economist at AG Edwards, said he sees the Fed
cutting rates this year if the economy fails to re-accelerate.


"If the economy continues to grow at a subpar rate this year as
we expect, the risk of inflation is likely to decline," Thayer
said.


"Core consumer-prices inflation has also moved down toward the
Fed's 1.0 to 2.0 percent comfort zone and could be down into that
zone by later this year.


"Therefore, we continue to believe the Fed will cut short-term
interest rates two or three times before the end of the year."


Scotiabank's Camilla Sutton said the weak data "continues to
increase the odds that the Fed cuts more aggressively than the
market has currently priced in."


The combination of weak GDP, lower core inflation and an uptick
in the jobless rate "creates an environment where the likelihood
of Fed cuts has increased."


But Joseph Balestrino at Federated Investors said he sees no
action for now until the economic picture is clearer.


"There doesn't seem to be a need for rate action. The economy
doesn't appear to need the stimulus a rate cut would provide," he
said.


Balestrino said the soft conditions were in the first three
months of the year and that "the Fed has said it expects the
economy to re-accelerate later this year."


Additionally, he said "consumers continue to spend money. And
they continue to earn it, with unemployment remaining low. At the
same time, most foreign economies are trending higher than
expected, giving our own a boost."


Chief economist Ethan Harris at Lehman Brothers said the Fed will
keep taming inflation as its top priority, and that this battle
is not yet over, with a number of "upside risks" to inflation.


"Not only is the FOMC serious about getting the core below 2.0
percent (annually), it does not want to declare victory on
inflation prematurely," Harris said.


"The last thing it wants to do is say 'mission accomplished,' and
cut rates, only to see inflation pop back up again. This fear of
flip-flopping explains why Fed policy tends to move slowly except
during economic or financial meltdowns."


Although Harris acknowledged rate cuts are "possible," he said,
"we are sticking to our baseline view: the Fed is on hold until
the third quarter of 2008."

