

Bangladesh's increasingly confident cricketers host India from
Monday determined to build on a remarkable World Cup campaign and
provide a perfect send-off for coach Dav Whatmore.


Bangladesh can no longer be dismissed as cricketing minnows after
knocking out India in the World Cup first round before stunning
the mighty South Africa in the Super Eights stage.


A grateful Bangladesh Cricket Board rewarded the team for its
best-ever showing in the showpiece event with a bonus of
approximately 25,000 dollars for each player and the support
staff led by Whatmore.


An official celebratory dinner for captain Habibur Bashar's men
at a local hotel on Saturday night was attended by top figures in
the interim government who joined in congratulating each member
of the squad.


A special cheer was reserved for Whatmore, 53, the former
Australian Test batsman who guided Sri Lanka to World Cup victory
in 1996 before turning Bangladesh into a force to be reckoned
with.


He ends his four-year association with Bangladesh after the tour
by India, where he is considered a strong candidate to replace
fellow Australian Greg Chappell as the national team's coach.


Bangladesh cricket chief Abdul Aziz said at Saturday's dinner the
nation will "always be grateful to Whatmore for turning the team
into a proud group of world beaters."


An emotional Whatmore said he was focused on the series against
India, but did not rule out returning to Bangladesh at a latter
stage to help develop cricket in the country.


"I am proud and honoured to have been associated with
Bangladesh," he said. "It was great working with such a dedicated
bunch of players who did all the hard work out there on the
field.


"It is time to move on but I hope to return to Bangladesh some
day in the future."


Since Whatmore took over in 2003, Bangladesh defeated established
cricket nations like world champions Australia, India (twice),
Sri Lanka, and South Africa in one-day matches.


They also secured their only Test victory so far, against
Zimbabwe, but Whatmore admitted the team had a long way to go
before it could be counted among world's top teams.


"The journey has only just begun but they are on the right path,"
he said. "There is more self-belief among the players than before
and that is a good sign."


Captain Bashar echoed his coach's assessment, saying the team now
approached each series with confidence, knowing they were capable
of matching the best.


"We are not overawed by our rivals," he said. "We know that if we
play good cricket, we can defeat any team."


India, who arrive here on Monday under interim coach Ravi Sastri,
enjoy a superior record against Bangladesh, having won 13 of
their 15 one-dayers and all three Test matches so far.


But Bangladeshi fans, reflecting the optimism in the team,
believe it will be a battle of equals when the series begins with
the first one-dayer in Dhaka on Thursday.


"I hope India do not think that World Cup win was a fluke," said
Dhaka university student Aftab Baten. "Our boys are just as good.
They will be even better at home."


The three one-dayers on May 10, 12 and 15 will be followed by two
Tests at Chittagong (May 18-22) and Dhaka (May 25-29).

