

US Vice President Dick Cheney leaves Tuesday on a four-country
visit of the Middle East, looking to shore up support for Iraq
among its neighbors and increase pressure on Iran, US officials
say.


Cheney's May 8-14 trip to the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia,
Egypt and Jordan comes amid tensions between the United States
and its staunch Saudi allies over Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki's fragile government.


Saudi King Abdullah recently refused to meet with Maliki because,
according to a Riyadh-based Arab diplomat, the monarch believes
the prime minister has "entrenched" the deadly Shiite-Sunni
sectarian conflict in Iraq.


Asked whether Cheney would address such tensions during his trip,
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters: "I think that
I'll let the vice president and the Saudis have their
conversations privately."


There have also been Saudi-US tensions over the king's proposed
Middle East peace plan, but US officials downplayed the impact of
the vice president's pending visit on efforts to end the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.


"He's really more going to focus on regional security, with Iraq
being the centerpiece, and focus on the challenges posed by
Iran," said US National Security Council spokesman Gordon
Johndroe.


"The president asked the vice president to travel to the Middle
East to follow up on the Iraq regional security conference in
Egypt," at the Sharm el-Sheikh Red Sea resort, said Johndroe.


"Overall for the meeting that took place in Sharm el-Sheikh,
we're very satisfied. But there's follow-up to do," said Perino.


"But we obviously appreciate very much the support that Iraq was
shown by the neighbors in the region," she said. "We have
challenges in the region and it's important that everyone be
working together in order to help solve them."


Cheney will meet with UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-
Nahayan, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak, and Jordan's King Abdullah II, according to a statement
released by his office.


"The vice president also will meet with US military commanders
and speak with US troops stationed in the Persian Gulf region,"
it said.


The trip will be Cheney's second major foray overseas this year.
He traveled to Japan, Guam, Australia, Oman, Pakistan and
Afghanistan in late February.


The visit comes after US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice held
an unprecedented meeting with her Syrian counterpart Walid
Muallem on the sidelines of the conference in Egypt.


"I would say it was professional, businesslike. It was very
concrete... I didn't lecture him, he didn't lecture me," Rice
told reporters after the half-hour meeting.


The White House, which denounced a meeting last month between US
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
downplayed Rice's meeting as informal and not negotiations.


And Perino expressed no regrets that similar talks with Iran did
not take place, saying that Rice would have been "pleased" to
meet with Tehran's foreign minister and noting that there was a
lower-level US-Iran discussion.


Late last year, a heavyweight US panel urged US President George
W. Bush to open a dialogue with Tehran and Damascus, saying doing
so was a key part of efforts to reduce violence in Iraq.


Washington accuses Syria of allowing foreign fighters into Iraq
and charges that Iran has provided weapons and training for
forces that target US and Iraqi troops.

