

A proposed multi-billion dollar takeover of Qantas Airways
remained in doubt on Sunday, pending a decision by regulators
which analysts said was unprecedented in Australian corporate
history.


The 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) bid by a private equity
consortium apparently collapsed late on Friday after it failed to
garner more than 50 percent of shareholder acceptances by a 7:00
pm (0900 GMT) deadline.


But the hopes of the Macquarie Bank-led consortium were raised
just hours later when a large American shareholder, reportedly
billionaire corporate raider Samuel Heyman, gave limited backing
to the deal, pushing acceptances to 50.6 percent.


The Airline Partners Australia (APA) consortium has now appealed
to the country's Takeover Panel to decide on whether the
acceptances received after the deadline are valid.


But allowing the late acceptances would be unprecedented, said
head of research at Shaw Stockbroking, Brent Mitchell.


"There is no previous precedent. And if they allow this to
continue they are setting a precedent that they may not want to
honour in the future," he told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.


"So, obviously, I think it's more likely to stop the bid at this
point and not allow it to continue."


Business commentator Terry McCrann said it was simply "tough"
that the American hedge fund company had missed the deadline and
their late acceptance should be dismissed.


"Try that on election night. Turn up at a polling booth at 9:00pm
and ask to be allowed to vote," he told Channel Nine.


"In short, the takeover panel should throw the application out on
its ear."


Analysts said some hedge funds may have misjudged the mood by
presuming the deal, believed to be the largest ever private
equity bid for an airline, would reach the 50 percent mark
without their acceptances.


If APA had gained 50 percent of shareholder acceptances, it would
have triggered a two-week extension of the 5.45 dollar share
offer to allow the group to reach the minimum 70 percent it needs
to succeed.


Tom Elliott, of takeover arbitrage hedge fund MM&E Capital,
said this was probably the case with Heyman, which holds about a
10 percent stake in Qantas.


"I think they were probably a bit shocked when it didn't get to
50 percent on Friday night and hence their coming in at the last
hour," he told the ABC.


Debate has also centred on whether the APA offer of 5.45 dollars,
which had been rejected by at least one key stakeholder as
significantly below an acceptable price, was too low given recent
gains in airline stocks.


"The Australian airline industry has improved significantly,"
Mitchell said.


"And also the Australian market has gone up a significant amount
so, in the relative valuation terms, Qantas is now valued at
significantly above the previous takeover price."


Elliott said APA, which comprises Australian companies Macquarie
Bank Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equity Partners, US
buyout firm Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Corp, made a
mistake in locking in the final price too soon.


"They could have shaken all these recalcitrant funds loose with
another 10 or 20 cents and they probably would own 100 percent,"
he said.


Analysts said they expected the Qantas share price, which closed
Friday at 5.38 dollars, to fall to around 5.00 dollars if the bid
fails.


"A lot will depend on what Airline Partners says, will it give an
indication that it may come back again in the future?" Elliott
said.


Meanwhile, the Qantas board which unanimously supported the
takeover is also likely to face a shake-up. Chairman Margaret
Jackson "will have to go" although Geoff Dixon may be kept as
chief executive officer, Elliott said.


APA has said it will make an announcement ahead of trade on
Monday.

