

Afghanistan's insurgency is cheap to fund and the fighters behind
it are committed, so it could continue "for a long time" without
foreign support, fugitive rebel leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has
told AFP.


Roadside bombs, which Taliban and other insurgents use regularly
to deadly effect, cost 100 dollars a time, the former prime
minister said in a recorded DVD response to AFP questions that
was delivered this week.


This is much less expensive than the billions of dollars spent by
international troops conducting counter-insurgency operations.


"The Americans know that a roadside bomb against one of their
convoys would cost only 100 dollars," said Hekmatyar, who carries
a multi-million-dollar US bounty on his head.


"We need neither foreign support for materials and equipment or
for expenses," he said in the video.


"If we are able to carry out at least 1,000 such attacks a year,
it would cost us only 100,000 dollars. Inshallah (with God's
blessings), we can carry on this war for a long time."


Hekmatyar, aged around 60, was the main recipient of US aid given
to factions that resisted the 1979-1989 Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan.


He was briefly prime minister in the chaos of the civil war that
followed the 1992 defeat of the Soviet regime.


He is believed to be hiding out in eastern Afghanistan or
Pakistan while leading his Hizb-i-Islami (Islamic Party) faction
in attacks against foreign and government targets, conducted
separately to those of the Taliban.


In the DVD, Hekmatyar flatly rejected oft-repeated allegations by
President Hamid Karzai and some US officials that the uprising is
dependent on support from circles in neighbouring Pakistan,
including its intelligence service.


"Those who have military experience and know the details of the
current resistance understand that we don't need support from
anyone, or any foreign country -- neither Pakistan nor Iran," he
said.


"Some people suggest that Pakistan supports us. I tell you,
Pakistan was the one who helped the Americans to take
Afghanistan," he said, referring to the 2001 US-led invasion that
toppled the Taliban government.


Hekmatyar repeated claims that his men had helped Al-Qaeda chief
Osama bin Laden and his lieutenant, Ayman Al-Zawahiri, escape US
Special Forces, who cornered them in the Tora Bora mountains of
eastern Afghanistan in early 2002.


"When the American attacks began on Tora Bora ... several
thousands of faithful mujahedin took Osama bin Laden and some of
his comrades, including Zawhiri, to a safe place," he said.


Bin Laden, the world's most wanted man, and other Al-Qaeda
leaders sheltered by the 1996-2001 Taliban government remain at
large more than five years after thousands of US forces invaded
to hunt him down.


"I met him (bin Laden) around that time," Hekmatyar said,
providing no details.


The renegade commander said the insurgency was part of the
religious lives of his men. "Believe me, we do this jihad (holy
war) as we pray, as we fast or conduct hajj."


Asked if he would join Karzai's reconciliation programme, he
reiterated he would not meet government officials as long as
foreign forces were in Afghanistan.


"Once again, through you, I want to announce that we can never
join the government unless the invading forces withdraw from
Afghanistan and give the right of Afghans to decide their fate."


For this reason he had refused "several times" to meet Karzai and
former US ambassador to Afghanistan, Zalmai Khalilzad, now
ambassador to Iraq.


The rebel leader repeated a call for unity among groups fighting
Karzai's government, including the Taliban.


"We have not any factional links with Taliban ... but we have
always insisted on the unity of the mujahedin," he said.


He praised everyone involved in the insurgency. "I'm ready to
kiss the forehead of one who even throws a stone at the enemy,"
he said.

