

With campaigns and debates kicking off a full 18 months ahead of
the next US presidential election, American voters are getting
tired of the race already, polls and observers suggest.


Even President George W. Bush seems to have lost interest in who
may succeed him, with a spokeswoman saying that he did not tune
in to Thursday evening's debate between the 10 of his fellow
Republicans vying for their party's nomination.


"With nearly nine months to go before the first presidential
primary, many voters are showing early signs of campaign
fatigue," said a recent report by the Pew Research Center.


More than half of US voters, 52 percent, judged the campaign
"dull," and nearly two-thirds thought the early-starting campaign
period is "too long," the pollster said.


Months before any official contenders are selected, let alone any
presidential votes cast, the candidates have been filling the
news pages and airwaves with hundreds of meetings held across the
country and particularly with coverage of their record-breaking
campaign fundraising.


The six leading candidates -- top fundraiser Hillary Clinton,
Barack Obama and John Edwards on the Democrats' side, and Rudolph
Guliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney for the Republicans --  have
racked up more than 100 million dollars between them.


But the flood of publicity generated so early on as the hopefuls
crammed their war chests may rebound on them later in the
contest, some observers warn.


"Candidates have been running so long already it opens up
opportunities for late entries," said blogger Glenn Reynolds on
the website instapundit.com. "We may not like it, but voter
boredom may now be a driver of politics."


Kevin Keane, an advisor to Tommy Thompson, one of the lower-
ranking contenders on the Republican side, is convinced that
voter fatigue will come into play -- and hopes it will favor a
late surge by his candidate.


"Absolutely -- we're counting on it," he said. "And the longer
the campaign goes on, people will have more opportunity to see
that Tommy Thompson is a viable candidate."


As for the Democrat favorites Clinton and Obama, the two rivals
risk mutual destruction in a tight race which could leave an
opening for former vice- president Al Gore to make a late bid,
said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington
University in the capital.


Bill Simon, policy director on the campaign of New York's Mayor
Rudy Giuliani -- currently the leading Republican candidate --
told AFP he was giving "a lot" of thought to the threat of voter
fatigue.


"Clearly the campaign has gotten off to an early start, and the
pace has been very frenetic," he said. "Whether that pace is
maintained we'll have to see. I suspect it will cool off a bit
over the summer, but then it will pick up again in the fall."


Another Republican hopeful, the former senator Fred Thompson who
is now known as an actor in the television series "New York
District," threatens to gain an edge by actually avoiding the
already crowded field.


"He is running a remarkably smart non-campaign," said Republican
Senator Lamar Alexander ahead of Thursday's Republican debate.


"Here we have 10 candidates coming to the Reagan Library (in
California) tonight, and he's getting about as much attention as
all of them put together by not going ... he's having his own
media event tomorrow night."


Thompson was pegged equally with Senator John McCain for the
Republican nomination in a poll published Tuesday, although he
has not yet officially announced his intention to run.

