

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas will on Sunday meet prime
minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas to discuss a proposed US security
plan that the Islamist movement has already rejected, an official
told AFP.


The president "will travel to Gaza today and meet with prime
minister Ismail Haniya to present to him the American plan," said
chief negotiator Saeb Erakat.


On Saturday Hamas, the senior partner in a coalition with Abbas's
secular Fatah party, rejected a US plan put to Israel and the
Palestinians to end rocket fire in exchange for eased
restrictions on Palestinian movement.


The document, a copy of which was obtained by Israel's Haaretz
daily on Friday, sets out a timeline for implementing steps on
security and movement, along with moves to bolster security
services loyal to Abbas.


The proposed steps include Israel lifting restrictions on
Palestinian movement and the Palestinians deploying forces to
prevent the launching of rockets that are regularly fired by
Gaza-based militants into the Jewish state.


The Palestinian Authority welcomed the measure as "a very good
approach," while Israel warned it would not be able to implement
some of the recommended steps for security reasons.


But Hamas, whose forces violently clashed with pro-Abbas troops
for months before a unity government put a lid on the tensions on
March 17, rejected the plan outright.


"We forcefully reject this abject and terrorist plan because it
calls for killing the Palestinian people and legalising the
occupation of Palestinian territory in exchange for security" in
Israel, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhum told AFP on Saturday.


Exiled Hamas political chief Khaled Meshaal on Friday told Al-
Jazeera television that the US plan was "a joke," and said that
Hamas rejected any proposal that "marginalises the Palestinian
cause."


Sunday's Abbas-Haniya encounter will take place as part of the
first session of a new Palestinian security council that was
created on April 15 and for the first time included the Islamist
Hamas.


The council also includes the foreign, interior and justice
ministers.

