

Tiger Woods bogeyed the final hole Saturday to hand Rory
Sabbatini the third- round lead in the 6.4 million-dollar
Wachovia Championship.


South Africa's Sabbatini carded an 8-under-par 64, capped by a
birdie at 18, matching the Quail Hollow course record.


He had an 11-under total of 205, one better than Woods, who
carded a 68.


Fiji's Vijay Singh and American Arron Oberholser both carded 69s
to share third on 207.


Woods dropped a shot at 17, then botched the par-4 18th, where he
pushed his drive into the right rough and hit his second shot
left of the green.


He got up and down from 40 yards to limit the damage.


"Eighteen, you get it in the fairway it's a pretty benign hole,
but if you don't, you're going to pay the price," said Woods, who
finished in near darkness due to a two-hour morning weather
delay.


Woods said he could not see the line on his six-foot putt at 18
but he made it all the same.


"I was kind of guessing on that one," he said. "I knew it was
left-to-right but I didn't know how much."


Sabbatini was able to stay out of trouble at the last, sinking a
20-foot birdie putt to complete a bogey-free effort played in
intermittent rain.


"I managed to get the ball in play, and the rain slowing the
greens up just a touch made it a little easier to be a little
aggressive with the putter," Sabbatini said.


Singh found some trouble at the last, taking bogey when his long
attempt to save par lipped out, and Oberholser had a double-
bogey.


Singh had discarded his shoes and socks to play his second shot
from the hazard, while Oberholser found the water with his second
shot with his second shot.


Phil Mickelson was in the water as well, making a double-bogey
that dropped him four adrift.


Sabbatini's lead should come as no surprise. Just last month he
tied for second at The Masters.


"I just managed to keep the ball in play and the rain slowing the
greens up just a touch made it a little easier to be a little
aggressive with the putter," said Sabbatini, who eagled the first
hole and never looked back.


Woods and Singh played in the final pairing. Woods and Sabbatini
will play in the last group on Sunday, and Sabbatini is eager for
the chance to go head-to- head with the American superstar.


He said some have devalued his win in the 2006 Nissan Open
because Woods wasn't entered.


"Some people said that Tiger had withdrawn because he was sick,"
Sabbatini said. "He's here this week (and it is the) best
opportunity I've had to put any of that criticism or doubt
aside."


Said Woods: "I know Rory is playing well right now and I'm going
to have to make some birdies tomorrow."

