

Nine military personnel including eight French from the
Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) peacekeeping mission were
killed when a military plane crashed in Egypt's northern Sinai
region Sunday, Egyptian security officials said.


"Nine people on board the plane died in the crash. This included
eight French crew members," the security official told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


MFO and French military sources said they had received reports
that a French transport aircraft belonging to the peacekeeping
force had crashed but did not immediately confirm any casualties.


"Yes, unfortunately we have had reports of a plane crash. It was
a French aircraft carrying eight French crew members. There was
one other officer on board whose identity we are still trying to
get," the MFO director general's representative, Normand St.
Pierre, told AFP.


"It was a training mission and we lost touch with the plane
shortly after takeoff," he said.


The plane was heading from the northern Sinai airport of Al-Gurah
towards St. Catherine, further south.


"The two pilots radioed in to report a technical failure and warn
that they would attempt an emergency landing, after which we lost
contact with them," a source at Al-Gurah airport said.


The official, who was speaking on condition of anonymity, said
that a Canadian member of the multinational force was also
believed to be among the victims of the crash.


There was no immediate confirmation from the Canadian embassy.


Witnesses in the area told AFP and Egyptian public television
that the plane smashed into a truck as it was attempting its
emergency landing before crashing into the side of a mountain.


"The aircraft is a twin engine transport plane which carries out
liaison missions and constitutes France's contribution to the
force," a French military source in Cairo said.


"We cannot confirm any deaths for the moment, the teams are on
their way," he added.


The MFO is an independent peacekeeping force not related to the
United Nations, created as a result of the 1979 Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty and funded mainly by the two neighbours and the
United States.


The approximately 2,000-strong military force was set up in 1982
and includes troops from 11 different countries, including a
large US contingent. It is based in two camps in the Sinai
peninsula.


According to the MFO's website, the aircraft is a DHC-6 Twin
Otter which provides transportation between the force's two camps
in the Sinai.

