

Taiwanese right-hander Chien-Ming Wang flirted with perfection
Saturday as he pitched the New York Yankees to an 8-1 victory
over the Seattle Mariners.


Wang retired the first 22 batters he faced, becoming the first
Yankee starter to pitch eight innings this season.


He baffled the Mariners with an effective sinker through 7 1/3
innings, inducing 12 ground-ball outs, retiring six on flyouts
and striking out four before Ben Broussard ruined the bid for a
perfect game, as well as a no-hitter and shutout, with his second
home run of the season.


Richie Sexson led off the eighth with a comebacker, leaving Wang
five outs shy of a perfect game. But Broussard, who was hitting
.188 this season, launched an 0-1 pitch over the wall in right-
center field.


Jose Guillen followed with a single. Wang then got Kenji Johjima
to ground into an inning-ending double play.


Wang was given a standing ovation by the crowd as he walked to
the dugout.


The last Yankee to pitch a perfect game at Yankee Stadium was
David Cone against Montreal on July 18, 1999 in a 6-0 victory.


That year ended with manager Joe Torre winning his third World
Series title with New York.


Randy Johnson is the last pitcher to throw a perfect game,
achieving the feat for the Arizona Diamondbacks in a 2-0 win over
the Atlanta Braves on May 18, 2004.


Wang was also bidding to become the second player to throw a no-
hitter this season. Mark Buehrle tossed one for the Chicago White
Sox on April 18 against Texas.


Meanwhile, former Yankee Jeff Weaver lost for the fifth time in
as many starts.


The Yankees held just a 1-0 lead against Weaver before erupting
for five runs in the sixth inning. Derek Jeter highlighted the
inning with a two-run double.


Bobby Abreu led off the sixth with a bunt single, Alex Rodriguez
followed with a single to center and Jason Giambi walked to load
the bases. Weaver then hit Hideki Matsui with a pitch to force in
a run and Jorge Posada lined an RBI single.


After Robinson Cano struck out and Doug Mientkiewicz grounded
into a fielder's choice, Melky Cabrera walked and Jeter doubled
in two to make it 6-0.

