

Apple reported its profits surged 88 percent in the recent
quarter on thriving sales of iPod music players and Macintosh
computers.


Apple said its profits in the quarter ending March 31 amounted to
770 million dollars, or 87 cents per share, as compared to 410
million dollars, or 47 cents per share, in the same quarter in
2006.


"We are very pleased to report the most profitable March quarter
in Apple's history," said chief financial officer Peter
Oppenheimer.


Apple stock price climbed more than six percent to 101.50 dollars
in trading that followed the release of the earnings figures
after the market's closing bell.


Apple shipped 1,517,000 Macintosh computers and 10,549,000 iPods
during the first three months of this year, which represented a
36 percent rise in computer sales and a 24 percent increase in
iPod sales from the same period in 2006.


The Cupertino, California-based company posted 5.26 billion
dollars in revenues for the quarter, with international sales
accounting for 43 percent of the total.


"The Mac is clearly gaining market share, with sales growing 36
percent -- more than three times the industry growth rate," said
chief executive Steve Jobs.


"We're very excited about the upcoming launch of iPhone in late
June, and are also hard at work on some other amazing new
products in our pipeline."


Before the earnings report's release, Apple's board of directors
voiced their support for Jobs after an embattled former employee
implicated Jobs in a stock- option scandal.


"We have complete confidence in the conclusions of Apple's
independent investigation, and in Steve's integrity and his
ability to lead Apple," board members, including former US vice
president Al Gore, said in a statement.


On Tuesday, Apple's former chief financial officer Fred Anderson
settled civil charges stemming from stock option backdating and
said he warned Jobs about potential accounting problems related
to the executive awards.


Jobs cooperated fully with investigations by Apple and regulators
at the US Securities and Exchange Commission into whether stock
option grant dates were altered without proper financial
reporting, according to the board.


"The SEC investigated the matter thoroughly and its complaint
speaks for itself, in terms of what it says, what it does not
say, who it charges, and who it does not charge," board members
said in the statement.


The claim about Jobs' knowledge of the scheme came as Anderson
and Apple's former top lawyer were charged in a civil suit by US
federal regulators with participating in fraud related to multi-
million dollar Apple stock option awards.

