

An Argentine court on Wednesday annulled the pardons of two
former military dictators condemned to life in prison in 1985 for
masterminding a state terrorist regime.


The federal court in Buenos Aires declared unconstitutional the
nine pardons granted to Jorge Videla, Emilio Massera and seven
other former leaders in the 1976-1983 dictatorship, by then-
president Carlos Menem in 1990.


However, the court decision could be appealed through the court
system, all the way to the Supreme Court, said a court source who
spoke on condition of anonymity.


The suspension of the pardons would be in effect during an
appeals process, the source said.


"The acts for which Videla and Massera were convicted cannot be
pardoned," read the judicial document, seen by AFP.


Videla and Massera are the only surviving members of the nine
dictatorship leaders who were pardoned by Menem. Three other
military chiefs, Roberto Viola, Armando Lambruschini and Ramon
Agostini, have died.


Four other leaders brought to trial in 1985 were not convicted.


The former officials were given prison sentences ranging from
several years to life in 1985 for human rights violations
committed during the dictatorship, which is blamed for the
"disappearance" of 30,000 people widely believed to have been
killed.


Wednesday's court action tightened the noose around two of the
main ex-military dictators, ex-general Videla and ex-admiral
Massera.


Videla, 81, was arrested in 1998 and has been held in home
detention awaiting prosecution on charges of stealing babies as
part of the dictatorship's regime.


Under the regime, the Argentine military arrested pregnant women
and kidnapped their newborn babies, giving them to families with
links to the government.


Massera, 81, was charged in 1998 with stealing babies and the
assets of the "disappeared," but he was released in 2005 after
being declared mentally incompetent after suffering a stroke.


Several more leading former military and police officers face
trial in connection with the killings, abduction and torture
carried out by the military government.


In 2005 the Supreme Court overturned amnesty laws that protected
some former members of the military dictatorship.

