

A hunger strike by North Korean refugees being held at a Thai
detention centre continued Thursday, although some of the around
100 people have resumed eating, the UN refugee agency said.


The refugees are protesting at delays to their resettlement in
South Korea and began the action late Tuesday.


"Some of them are eating again, but some of them are still
continuing a hunger strike," said Kitty McKinsey, a spokeswoman
for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. She declined to give
further details.


The refugees were suppoed to leave Thailand several days ago but
Thai authorities abruptly put off their scheduled trip without
giving any clear reasons, the global body said.


Thailand's national police chief, General Sereepisut Taemeeyaves,
also said some of the North Koreans "resumed eating" without
elaborating further.


A South Korean diplomat in Bangkok declined to comment on the
issue.


But Lee Ho-Taeg, secretary general of the International Campaign
to Block the Repatriation of North Korean Refugees, said some 400
North Koreans were still on a hunger strike.


Lee said a top Thai immigration official met the North Koreans
Wednesday and urged them to eat.


"He threatened to repatriate them to the North unless they stop
the hunger strike. Three North Koreans passed out, probably
because they were so shocked at the threat," Lee told AFP in
Seoul.


"The North Koreans are angered at the threat. They originally
planned to go starved for five days only but they are now
determined to do it indefinitely," the activist said.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans, fleeing hunger or repression
in the hardline communist state, have travelled across the border
to China in recent years.


But China has an agreement with its close ally North Korea to
repatriate them as economic migrants, a policy strongly
criticised by refugee aid groups.


If forcefully returned, these North Koreans face harsh punishment
including jail terms and forced labour, according to rights
groups.


To avoid forced repatriation, the refugees often travel on to
third countries in hopes of winning eventual resettlement in
South Korea, and Thailand is an increasingly popular destination
for the refugees.


The number of North Koreans arrested for illegal entry in
Thailand soared to 400 in 2006 from 50 the year before.

