

Glenn McGrath and Shaun Tait struck it rich as Australia stormed
into a fourth successive World Cup final with a crushing seven-
wicket win over South Africa here on Wednesday.


South Africa were dismissed for 149, their lowest-ever Cup total
as Tait finished with 4-39 while man-of-the-match McGrath took
3-18.


Australia then raced to the target with more than 18 overs to
spare despite losing Adam Gilchrist and skipper Ricky Ponting
early in the innings.


They will now meet Sri Lanka at Barbados on Saturday, a repeat of
the 1996 Cup final at Lahore when the islanders beat Mark
Taylor's Australians by seven wickets.


Australia are now unbeaten in their last 28 Cup matches and are
aiming to become the first team in tournament history to complete
a hat-trick of titles. They were the champions in 1999 in England
and 2003 in South Africa.


Australia owed their fourth successive appearance in the final to
McGrath  and fast-improving Tait, who virtually turned the match
into a no-contest after reducing South Africa to 27-5 in the
opening 10 overs.


In-form Michael Clarke (60 not out) and Matthew Hayden built on
the duo's superb efforts with a 66-run stand for the third wicket
to ensure an easy win in front of jubilant Australian fans at the
Beausejour Stadium.


Hayden also became the first batsman in the tournament to
complete 600 runs during his 60-ball 41.


Clarke smashed eight fours in his 86-ball innings.


South Africa's slim chances of making their first appearance in
the final after a spineless batting performance depended on early
wickets, but they could grab just two before running into Hayden
and Clarke.


Gilchrist was the first to go, bowled by a Charl Langeveldt
delivery that swung back to rattle the stumps. The South African
bowler came close to getting the wicket of Ponting, but Ashwell
Prince dropped the catch at square-leg.


Ponting was then on four, but could not capitalise on the chance
as he was bowled by fast bowler Andre Nel after contributing 22.


Australia earlier piled on the pressure from the first over, with
McGrath, Tait and Nathan Bracken testing the batsmen with a
probing line and length.


McGrath, playing in his last World Cup, became the tournament's
highest wicket- taker with 25 in 10 matches, surpassing Sri
Lankan off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan (23).


Justin Kemp (49 not out) and Herschelle Gibbs (39) alone offered
some resistance, helping their team add 122 runs for the last
five wickets.


Gibbs fell to a soft dismissal, caught behind off Tait after
adding 60 for the sixth wicket with Kemp which was the highest
stand of the innings.


Gibbs, keen to make amends for a dropped catch that allowed Steve
Waugh off the hook at the 1999 tournament, hit six fours in his
49-ball knock.


South Africa's last Cup semi-final against Australia ended in a
thrilling tie in 1999, but this time they capitulated.


It all began with in-form skipper Graeme Smith, who tried an
ambitious shot early in the innings. He took a few steps out of
the crease, but failed to connect and saw his off-stump knocked
back by a Bracken delivery.


It was again a poor shot-selection that led to the dismissal of
key batsman Jacques Kallis, who was bowled while attempting to
steer on bent knees a fuller- length delivery from McGrath.


The Australian fast bowler was on a hat-trick in his fifth over
when he had Ashwell Prince caught by wicket-keeper Adam
Gilchrist, and Mark Boucher by Matthew Hayden at first slip.

