

With the US healthcare industry under increasing scrutiny over
dangerous conflicts of interest, a new study released Wednesday
concludes that almost all doctors have some relationship with
drug makers.


US and Australian researchers said in the study that 25 percent
of doctors surveyed said they had received direct payments from
pharmaceutical producers.


In addition, fully 94 percent of practicing doctors "have at
least one type of relationship with the drug industry," though
this most often means receiving food in the workplace or sample
prescription drugs.


"Relationships with industry are a fundamental part of the way
medicine is practiced today. The real questions relate to how
much is too much and how far is too far," said a summary of the
study released Wednesday.


The study, to be published in the April 26 issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine, comes in the wake of several
scandals in the health and research industries over conflicts of
interest.


Last year, for instance, Dr. Trey Sunderland of the US National
Institutes of Health was shown to have received 285,000 dollars
from Pfizer, the world's largest drug company, for cooperating
with them without having informed his superiors at the government
health research agency.


The study found that drug and medical device manufacturers single
out doctors in certain areas and doctors with influence over
others to develop close relationships, offering things like
payments for consulting and honoraria for speaking engagements.


Cardiologists are a key target of the industry's consulting and
other payments, in part because they can influence what drugs and
devices other doctors choose, said lead researcher Eric Campbell
of the Institute for Health Policy at Massachusetts General
Hospital and Harvard Medical School.


"Cardiology is a highly influential specialty within the medical
profession. If the drug and device industry can influence
cardiologists, they can likely influence the prescribing
practices of other doctors," said Campbell.


"It appears that these relationships benefit physicians and
industry, but the important policy question is to what extent do
these relationships benefit patients in the terms of the care
they receive," he said.


The researchers note that more payments go to doctors who develop
clinical guidelines and mentor other doctors in training than to
other types of doctors.


"I know it's cliche, but if it didn't work, drug companies
wouldn't do it," said David Blumenthal, director of the Institute
for Health Policy.


"It appears pretty clear that industry forms tighter
relationships with doctors who are really the thought leaders,
the ones who are likely to affect the behavior of other doctors,"
Blumenthal said.


According to the summary, the authors of the study said their
findings should "raise alarms" to do more to prevent health
manufacturers from having too much influence over doctors.


The study was conducted by researchers at Massachusetts General
Hospital- Partners Health Care System, Yale University, and the
University of Melbourne and Royal Melbourne Hospital in
Australia.


They surveyed 1,662 physicians in anesthesiology, cardiology,
family practice, general surgery, internal medicine, and
pediatrics over their financial ties with industry, and the
reasons behind those ties.

