

Lorena Ochoa, newly installed as the world No. 1 of women's golf,
will try to add another line to her ever more impressive resume
when she defends her title in the Corona Championship this week.


The Mexican star is sure to be the toast of adoring home fans at
the 1.3 million-dollar LPGA event at the Tres Marias Golf Club,
where she will be bidding for the first successful title defense
of her career.


"I have no way to compare this," Ochoa said when she finally won
on home soil last year. "Being able to play in my country and win
in front of my people."


That was one of six victories for Ochoa last year, when she
earned LPGA Player of the Year honors.


She had been closing in on Swedish superstar Annika Sorenstam for
the world No. 1 rankings for weeks, and finally moved into the
top spot in the rankings announced Monday after an idle week on
the tour.


"It's like a nice surprise because I'm at home and I can share
everything with the people I love, my family, media and
everybody," Ochoa said of defending the title as the world No. 1.
"So, it's twice as special."


Sorenstam will be absent this week as she continues treatment for
a ruptured disc in her back.


If Ochoa wins this week, it would mark not only her own first
successful title defense but also the first such defense on the
LPGA tour since Sorenstam earned back-to-back titles at the
MasterCard Classic Honoring Alejo Peralta in 2005 and 2006.


The final round of last year's tournament saw Ochoa paired with
Paraguay's Julieta Granada, who lost by five strokes as Ochoa
finished with a tournament- record 20-under total of 272.


"I think the scores won't be as low as last year," she said. "The
course is in great shape, but the wind will be harder than last
year because of the season.


"So, I'm going to play smart. My goal is to enjoy, as much as I
can, the week and I think we will be in good shape."


Granada went on to capture Rookie of the Year honors, and many of
this season's rising newcomers will be on hand here this week.


Ten rookies are in the field this week,including current Rookie
of the Year points leader Angela Park of Brazil.


Granada will be back to try to go one better than her second-
place of last year, but several marquee names join Sorenstam on
the sidelines, including Australia's Karrie Webb, England's Laura
Davies and South Korean Se Ri Pak.

