

Ignoring the promise of a veto by President George W. Bush, the
US House of Representatives on Wednesday approved a war funding
bill that includes a timetable for pulling US troops out of Iraq.


Lawmakers paid little heed to visiting top army general in Iraq,
David Petraeus, who during a closed-door session earlier in the
day championed the troop "surge" strategy and appealed for time
so it could show results.


The 218-208 vote by the Democratic-majority House links release
of 124 billion dollars in military spending for Iraq and
Afghanistan to a schedule for the pullout of American troops,
beginning as early as October.


The bill next faces a vote in Senate, where it is expected to
pass, before heading to Bush who has repeatedly vowed to block
the bill and blasted the attempt as a sure recipe for defeat.


Democrats, who have argued that they are acting on the will of
the nation, were boosted by the release of a poll that showed a
majority of Americans side with them on the issue and believe
victory in Iraq is no longer possible.


"If the president vetoes this legislation he will not only be
vetoing full funding for our troops, but ignoring, in my opinion,
the will of the American people," said House Democratic majority
leader Steny Hoyer.


"Our belief that we must hold the Iraqis accountable for
achieving real progress and establish a timetable for a
responsible deployment of American forces was also reinforced."


Petraeus urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the new policy
-- sending 28,000 additional troops, announced in January --
despite a spike in violence including in Diyala on Monday where
nine US troops were killed.


"General Petraeus continued to say that he can give a
comprehensive assessment as to whether or not the surge is in
fact working around September," said Democratic Representative
James Clyburn.


The bill provides 124.2 billion dollars -- even more than the
administration sought -- to bankroll operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan, but says US troops are to start withdrawing from
Iraq in October, with a non-binding target date of completing the
pullout by March 31.


Clyburn said that if Petraeus could make good on his pledge to
offer an assessment of the "surge" strategy by September, "then
what is wrong with October 1 as a date for us to start
redeploying, if there's success?"


But Republican House leader John Boehner said he agreed with
Petraeus' argument that setting limits on troop deployment in
Iraq would not help US efforts to restore stability.


"It would hurt the very cause that we seek to win there," Boehner
said.


Republican Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee, said "(Petraeus) reminded us... this is a
test of wills and he admonished us, reminded us that what we say
to the world, to our adversaries and our allies, is listened to
by the other side."


But a poll by NBC News and the Wall Street Journal suggested that
only 37 percent sided with Bush and his Republicans in believing
that Congress should not set a deadline for troop withdrawal,
compared to 55 who support a timetable.


The White House has slammed as political expediency the
Democrats' efforts and said setting a date to bring troops home
sends the wrong message, is harmful to the troops and dangerous
for the country's security.


Ahead of the promised presidential veto both sides are scrambling
to squeeze the maximum political mileage out of the debate,
stepping up their rhetorical jabs.


Vice President Dick Cheney said Tuesday that "timetable
legislation ... would guarantee defeat," while Democratic House
leader Nancy Pelosi said the bill would mean Bush "will have to
face up, will have to be accountable for this war in Iraq. And he
does not want to face that reality."


In the medium range, despite the rhetoric, no one doubts that
Congress will disburse the funds the Pentagon is requesting --
but on terms that remain very much up in the air.


Among possible solutions: the Democrats could release funds one
small chunk at a time to keep the Iraq debate at the center of
political dialogue, or impose targets forcing the administration
to justify progress it says is being made.

