

Shells and machinegun fire pounded the Somali capital on
Thursday, setting buildings on fire, as Ethiopians forces and
Islamist guerrillas battled for the ninth day.


After a night of sporadic shelling, columns of Ethiopian tanks
ploughed into northern Mogadishu, firing mortars and rockets onto
suspected rebel positions, as machinegun fire ricochetted across
neighbourhoods.


Terrified civilians scrambled to escape stray bullets as
buildings were set on fire and Mogadishu was transformed into a
virtual "ghost town", residents said.


"The heaviest fighting is raging this morning. They are
exchanging everything they have, from bullets from anti-aircraft
shells, no-one can put his head up," said Salah Doli, a resident
of Jamhuriha area.


"Mortars have hit shops and buildings destroying them and setting
others ablaze," he added.


Resident Ahmed Suad said shelling had destroyed buildings in the
Tawfiq area, forcing civilians to flee as insurgents dug in to
resist a bid by Ethiopian forces to wipe them out.


"As I was fleeing my home, I saw several bodies lying in the
streets," he said.


"This is some of the heaviest fighting ever in northern
Mogadishu," he added.


Human rights workers monitoring the death toll said Wednesday at
least 329 people, mostly civilians and insurgents, had been
killed in the clashes that come around three weeks after similar
battles claimed at least 1,000 lives.


Dozens of corpses lay rotting in the battle fields as the ongoing
fighting prevented aid workers from collecting them.


Mogadishu doctors have appealed for medical supplies for the
wounded in some of the heaviest clashes in Mogadishu since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


The United Nations says that more than 321,000 people had fled
the seaside capital, home to about a million people, since
February 1, but elders told AFP the figure had shot beyond
400,000.


Many of the displaced are camped in the capital's outskirts,
facing disease outbreaks and without sufficient water, food and
medicine, according to aid workers.


Alarmed by a looming humanitarian disaster, the UN has pleaded
for access to bring aid to the displaced.

