

Ignoring President George W. Bush's staunch vow of a veto, the US
House of Representatives on Wednesday approved a war funding bill
that includes a timetable for pulling US troops out of Iraq.


Lawmakers paid little heed to the visiting top army general in
Iraq, David Petraeus, who during a closed-door session earlier in
the day championed the troop "surge" strategy and appealed for
time so it could show results.


The narrow 218-208 vote by the Democratic-majority House links
release of 124 billion dollars in military spending for Iraq and
Afghanistan to a schedule for the pullout of American troops,
beginning as early as October.


The bill next faces a vote in the Senate, expected on Thursday,
when it is likely to be approved. Then it heads to Bush, who has
repeatedly vowed to block it.


"Tonight, the House of Representatives voted for failure in
Iraq," said a statement by White House spokeswoman Dana Perino.
"Democrats have forced this process to continue for too long. The
president calls on the Senate to quickly pass this legislation so
the president can veto it."


Bush would then "work with the Congressional leadership on a
clean bill that funds our troops while respecting the judgment of
our military commanders and helping ensure the safety of the
American people," Perino said.


Democratic House leader Nancy Pelosi played up the thousands of
casualties endured by US troops and the "scores of thousands" of
Iraqi lives lost in the war, which she added would "cost well
over a trillion dollars if it ended today."


"The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand
more than the blank checks the president is asking for, for a war
without end," she said.


She urged Bush "to sign the bill so that we can focus on winning
the war against terrorism, which is the real threat to the
American people."


Democrats were also boosted by the release of a poll that showed
a majority of Americans side with them on the issue and believe
victory in Iraq is no longer possible.


According to the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, 56 percent
said they agreed with setting a deadline for troop withdrawal,
while 37 percent sided with Bush in opposing the move.


The bill provides more cash than the administration sought to
bankroll operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but says US troops
are to start withdrawing from Iraq in October, with a non-binding
target of completing the pullout by March 31.


Petraeus urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the latest US
drive for success in Iraq despite a spike in violence including
in Diyala on Monday where nine US troops were killed.


He spoke of nearly "breathtaking" progress in parts of Iraq since
the US military began its "surge" of troops to secure the
country.


"We are ahead, I think, with respect ... to the reduction of
sectarian murders in Baghdad," he told reporters, after meeting
with representatives and senators in Congress.


"Progress in Anbar is almost something that's breathtaking," he
added, referring to the western Sunni province hit hard by a
violent insurgency.


Republican Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee, said Petraeus "reminded us... this is a test
of wills."


Ahead of the promised presidential veto both sides are scrambling
to squeeze the maximum political mileage out of the debate.


Vice President Dick Cheney said Tuesday that "timetable
legislation ... would guarantee defeat" and blasted Democratic
Senate majority leader Harry Reid for "defeatism" after Reid said
the war in Iraq was "lost."


Hunter urged Reid to resign over the controversial comments,
saying lawmakers should give the Iraq reinforcement plan time to
show results.


No one doubts that Congress will disburse the funds the Pentagon
is requesting -- but on terms that remain very much up in the
air.


The Democrats could release funds one small piece at a time to
keep the Iraq debate center-stage, or impose targets forcing the
administration to justify its claims of progress.

