

The US Supreme Court on Wednesday overturned three death
sentences which were issued to convicts in the 1990s in the
southern state of Texas, saying the men deserved new trials.


Texas is renowned as the state that has executed the highest
number of inmates in the United States. The death penalty is
often decried by rights groups but is strongly supported by US
President George W. Bush, a former Texas governor.


The court did not consider whether or not the men were guilty of
their crimes -- murder in all three cases -- but said by a vote
of 5-4 that the men deserved fresh trials and new juries to
determine their sentences.


At issue was how the courts instructed jurors to proceed in their
deliberations and what elements of the suspects' background, such
as troubled childhoods or psychological defects, they should
consider.


Prior to a Supreme Court decision in 1989, the death penalty was
automatically imposed if a jury decided that a suspect had
committed deliberate murder and was likely to carry out violent
crimes in the future.


Texas changed its jury instructions accordingly in 1991, advising
jurors to take such background elements into consideration.


But in the meantime in Texas, at least 47 of 392 people sentenced
to death were condemned under flawed jury instructions, lawyers
said.


There was "a reasonable likelihood that the trial judge's
instructions to the Texas jury that sentenced him to death
prevented jurors from giving meaningful consideration to
constitutionally relevant mitigating evidence," wrote Supreme
Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in the decision for one of
three cases.


However, the divisions stirred by the death penalty were evident
in not just the 5-4 split by justices but also in the court's
dissent, written by Chief Justice John Roberts.


"We give ourselves far too much credit in claiming that our
sharply divided, ebbing and flowing decisions in this area give
rise to 'clearly established' federal law," Roberts wrote.


The United States has executed 1,071 people since the death
penalty was reinstated in 1976, according to the US Department of
Justice. Texas has executed 391 prisoners, followed by Virginia
at 98.


Texas has executed 12 of the 14 prisoners put to death so far
this year in the United States.

