

The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) said Thursday
its interim net profit rose 16 percent to an all-time high,
leaving it well positioned for the rest of the year.


Australia's third largest bank said net profit for the six months
to March was 2.1 billion dollars (1.75 billion US) on the back of
strong lending.


"All in all, this is a good result," ANZ chief executive John
McFarlane said. "It sets us up well for the year as a whole and
positions us well for the years ahead."


He said ANZ -- which late last year bought nearly a fifth of
China's biggest rural commercial lender Shanghai Rural Commercial
Bank (SRCB) -- would continue to expand its Asian business with
franchises in Malaysia, China, Guam and Laos.


"Looking ahead, the growth we are now seeing from Asia will
become more material to the group," McFarlane said.


He said the bank viewed its Asian expansion as a long-term
investment that was unlikely to provide substantial returns until
2010.


But he said ANZ would reap the benefit after it "planted a lot of
seeds in Asia" as the only Australian commercial bank with a
major expansion program in the region.


"Others are starting, but I would emphasise this is a very long
journey, and it takes an awful lot to make a difference here," he
said. "It will take others quite a long time if they have any
aspiration to replicate what we have in Asia."


McFarlane said cash net profit, which excludes one-off items, was
up 11.8 percent at 1.94 billion dollars, slightly exceeding
market expectations.


The major one-off item was the sale of the vehicle fleet leasing
business FleetPartners for 141 million dollars.


McFarlane said the bank maintained its full-year guidance of 7-10
percent revenue growth and 5.0-7.0 percent cost growth.


McFarlane said ANZ recorded 20.1 percent profit growth on
personal loans in the interim period, with revenue up 14.4
percent.


Institutional loans saw a 10.6 percent increase in net profit,
with revenue up 5.0 percent.


"Conditions remain supportive of good growth," McFarlane said.
"Personal (banking) should continue to do well but may find it
difficult to sustain such unusually high levels of growth."


During the first half, group operating revenue grew 13 percent to
5.61 billion dollars.


ANZ declared an interim dividend of 62 cents, up 10.7 percent.


ANZ shares closed down 32 cents or 1.03 percent to 30.88 while
the market overall was up 0.38 percent.

