

Top officials from more than dozen Indian states met in New Delhi
Thursday to construct a new strategy to counter a decades-old but
worsening Maoist insurgency, home ministry officials said.


They said the government and police will "review and coordinate
steps being taken by the affected states to effectively combat
leftist guerrillas, a spokesman said.


The brainstorming meet comes just over a month after 55 policemen
were killed by Maoists in central Chhattisgarh state in one of
the worst ever attacks on Indian security forces.


The March 16 incident followed the assassination of high-profile
federal MP Sunil Mahto by Maoists in neighbouring Jharkhand state
on March 4. He was the first national-level politician to be
assassinated by the left-wing rebels.


Maoists say they are fighting for the rights of neglected tribes
and landless farmers. Tens of thousands of people have been
displaced in Chhattisgarh and are now living in tent shelters as
Indian counter-insurgency forces operate in the countryside.


Officials have said the Maoist insurgency threatens huge swathes
of India's centre, east and south and Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh has described the Maoists as the single biggest threat to
India's internal security.


A federal home ministry official told AFP that one of the issues
on the table during the one-day meeting was "how to strengthen
intelligence gathering at the ground level."


"There are some lacunae that exist and we need to plug those.
Another issue that we could discuss is better coordination
between the affected states, between their intelligence and
police personnel," he said.


"Often Maoists carry out attacks in one state and slip across the
border into others and the trail goes cold. We need to focus on
this too."


The rebels, who launched their armed campaign in 1967, operate in
another 14 of India's 29 states. New Delhi refuses to negotiate
with them.


Some 669 people died in 2005 in violence linked to more than
9,000 armed rebels who have spread over 15 states, according to
government estimates.


In 2006, there were 1509 cases of Maoist violence which claimed
680 lives including that of 157 security men, 251 civilians and
272 rebels, according to India's home ministry.

