

Joe Cole scored the only goal of the game as Chelsea emerged from
the first leg of their Champions League semi-final with a 1-0
advantage over Liverpool to take to Anfield.


After generating enough chances to put the tie beyond doubt,
particularly in a first-half they comfortably dominated, Jose
Mourinho's side were put under sufficient pressure after the
break for Liverpool to head home believing they can turn things
around in front of their own supporters.


Cole's 29th-minute winner, a close-range effort created by Didier
Drogba's power-packed run and astute pass, was a fine goal.


But, enthralling as it was, this contest never came close to
scaling the heights Manchester United and AC Milan had touched 24
hours earlier at Old Trafford.


Drogba's well-established capacity for ruffling the composure of
the Liverpool defence was underlined as early as the eighth
minute, the Ivory Coast striker's knockdown from Ashley Cole's
cross teeing up Frank Lampard on the penalty spot.


The England midfielder managed to get his foot over the bouncing
ball but his shot was too straight and Jose Reina was able to
make a good block.


A minute later, Andriy Shevchenko curled a shot narrowly over the
angle of post and bar and Liverpool were reprieved again when
Drogba failed to pick out an unmarked Joe Cole in the middle
after John Arne Riise's slack back pass had sent him sprinting
clear through the inside right channel.


Twenty minutes had elapsed before Liverpool managed to muster a
shot on the Chelsea goal, Bolo Zenden's wayward effort only
adding to the frustration of the increasingly agitated Rafael
Benitez on the touchline.


Dirk Kuyt finally gave Petr Cech something to do shortly
afterwards, although a kindly deflection off Ricardo Carvalho
ensured his header flew  straight to the midriff of the Czech
goalkeeper.


Chelsea were soon threatening again and, after Drogba had failed
to connect with Joe Cole's inviting cross, Lampard sent a 25-yard
free-kick fizzing inches outside the base of Reina's right-hand
post.


The pressure finally told in the 29th minute as Chelsea took the
lead with a move launched by Carvalho on the edge of his own
area.


The Portuguese carried the ball out to the edge of the centre
circle before spreading the ball wide to Drogba, who muscled past
Daniel Agger and advanced into the area before pulling the ball
back behind Jamie Carragher.


Cutting in from the opposite flank at pace, Joe Cole was able to
get in front of Alvaro Arbeloa and finish the move with the most
straightforward of finishes from eight yards out.


Liverpool's tempo rose predictably in response but it was not
until after the break that the visiting side began to pose a
genuine threat to the Chelsea goal.


The half-time team talk appeared to have had a particularly
invigorating impact on Steven Gerrard, who sent one sidefooted
shot narrowly over before forcing Cech into a fine save with a
left-foot volley from the edge of the area.


In between those efforts, Kuyt had headed an inviting Riise cross
over and Carragher was equally wasteful when a Zenden corner
found him unmarked at the back post.


Having initially been unsettled by Liverpool's introduction of
Peter Crouch, Chelsea gradually rediscovered their composure and
began to threaten again in the final quarter of an hour.


But two fine saves from Reina kept out efforts from Drogba and
Lampard and ensured Chelsea's win was restricted to the narrowest
of margins.

