

The United States will try to persuade Russia Thursday of the
importance of expanding its missile shield into Europe, at NATO
talks that will also focus on Kosovo's future status and
Afghanistan.


On the first of two days of informal talks, starting in Oslo,
Norway around 1030 GMT, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will
defend the US plan to erect its "star wars" style shield in
Poland and the Czech Republic.


Moscow claims the shield, due to be in operation by 2013, could
upset the strategic balance or start an arms race, and it
disputes US claims that "rogue states" like Iran could soon
develop missiles capable of reaching Europe.


In line with its heightened rhetoric on other issues, like energy
or the possible use of its UN Security Council veto over Kosovo,
Russia has reacted testily to a US offer of missile and other
military cooperation.


"What we see in the American offer are several aims which do not
address the principal, that is a joint analysis of the threat,"
said Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who will confont the
NATO allies around 1600 GMT.


Apart from doubting Iran's ability to be able to launch warheads
into Europe in the next decade, Russia is concerned the shield
will grow beyond the 10 planned interceptors in Poland and a
tracking radar in the Czech Republic.


"We know from experience that when you have a system it keeps
developing, it cannot stop," Russia's ambassador to NATO,
Konstantin Totsky, warned last week.


Washington also has some convincing to do among its NATO allies.


While they agree that Iran, and to a lesser extent North Korea,
do indeed pose a potential missile threat, they are concerned
that the shield's new footprint will not cover all of members
Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey.


To protect them, the alliance is considering whether it could
"bolt on" its planned theatre missile defences -- a short to
medium range system normally used to protect troops and still in
testing -- to the US system.


On the eve of the meeting, Rice expressed confidence that both
Europe and the Russians could be convinced the shield is in their
interests given the potential proliferation of ballistic missiles
and weapons of mass destruction.


"It's simply not possible that this could be considered a system
that could in any way threaten the Russian strategic deterrent,
it's just not capable of doing so," she told reporters travelling
with her to Oslo.


All 26 allies will also want to deliver a strong message to
Russia about the need for a quick decision at the Security
Council on Kosovo's status, almost certainly a form of
internationally-supervised independence.


NATO launched a bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999 to stop
Belgrade cleansing the province of its separatist minded ethnic
Albanian majority, and the alliance still has some 17,000 troops
based there.


With the ethnic Albanians impatient to breakaway, NATO fears that
its troops could get sucked into any violence that develops as
the political process over Kosovo's future drags on.


Russia, a strong ally of Serbia, rejects the notion that
independence should be imposed on a province Belgrade considers
an integral part of its territory, as it could encourage
separatists elsewhere, such as in the restive Caucasus.


Separately, the ministers will assess progress in Afghanistan --
NATO's biggest and most ambitious operation ever -- amid signs
that an expected spring offensive by Taliban rebels has not been
as strong as first feared.


No new calls for reinforcements are expected, and Rice said talks
would focus on "the need for better coordination between civilian
and military activity ... as well as looking at how we can
continue to seek and receive contributions to the war effort."

