

Chinese oil major Sinopec said Thursday it had no plans to pull
out of resource- rich Africa despite an attack on one of its oil
projects in Ethiopia that left 77 people dead.


"We've launched a contingency plan alerting all overseas projects
to pay more attention to security," a Sinopec official told AFP
on condition of anonymity.


"But we are not talking about ceasing projects or changing our
strategy or anything like that," the official added.


Sinopec is the parent of Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau,
the operator of the oil field, where 68 Ethiopians and nine
Chinese workers were killed in Tuesday's pre-dawn assault by
rebel gunmen.


Seven other Chinese workers were kidnapped and remained
unaccounted for.


"The government has encouraged us to invest in oil resources
overseas. I think there will be no major change in our strategy
due to the incident," the official said.


The state-run China Daily earlier Thursday quoted an unnamed
Sinopec spokesman as saying there was "no way" the company would
avoid Africa in the future.


"This is not a game for us. We will try to improve security in
the future but there is no way we will withdraw from our projects
there," the spokesman said.


The attack has highlighted energy-dependent China's growing
vulnerability as it scours the world for oil, gas and other raw
materials to power its voracious economy.


Sinopec, whose African involvement is mainly in Nigerian and
Angolan oil fields, said other foreign companies such as Total of
France or Anglo-Dutch energy firm Royal Dutch/Shell were more
vulnerable.


"Political relations between some African countries and their
countries, as well as public attitudes towards them, are not as
good as what we Chinese have," the Sinopec official said.


"We just happened to be involved in the incident but it was not
specifically targeted at Chinese."


While the attack was unlikely to prompt divestment of other
Chinese interests in Africa, it may force Beijing into a deeper
level of engagement with its African trading partners, analysts
told the China Daily.


"This incident will not have a major influence on China's
investment in Africa," said Shi Yinhong, a professor of
international relations at Renmin University of China.


"It's possible that China may use its influence and business
leverage to make the African governments offer more effective
protection of China's economic interests," he added.

