

Nintendo's Wii console is as effective as more traditional
videogames for burning calories, but players are running the risk
of injury by not warming-up properly, according to British
experts.


The Japanese firm launched Wii in November last year. Its motion-
sensitive console -- rather like a wireless remote control --
allows the movements of sports like tennis, golf, baseball,
boxing and 10-pin bowling to be mimicked.


But it has led to injuries like "Wii elbow", a complaint not
dissimilar to the inflamed elbow joint common among tennis
players, prompting warnings from medical professionals.


"Gamers should treat a 'Wii session' like any form of exercise
and warm-up adequately beforehand to prevent stiffness and
possible injuries," said Tim Hutchful, from the British
Chiropractic Association (BCA).


"Any unaccustomed exercise or activity lays yourself bare to
problems that could occur from prolonged periods of active
movements, so treat it like a gym work- out, warming-up and
cooling down."


The BCA has developed a five-point "Wii warm-up" for the
shoulders, wrists, arms, neck and back and is advising non-sporty
types to take regular breaks every 20 to 30 minutes.


The console itself warns users to take a time-out at certain
stages of the game.


And on Nintendo's website, the firm also points out that "playing
video games can make your muscles, joints, skin or eyes hurt".


It advises devotees to follow instructions to avoid problems like
tendinitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, skin irritation and eye
strain.


According to a number of studies of videogame use, 13- to 15
-year-olds play on the console for an average of 13 hours each
week and individual sessions can last up to six hours.


Sammy Margo, from the Chartered Society of Physiotherapists,
warned in The Times newspaper: "They wouldn't play two hours of
conventional tennis, yet they are doing that with this game --
and that is bound to result in some injuries."


But as well as overuse injuries, there's collateral damage to
innocent pets, friends, furniture, windows and television sets,
as documented in the website, www.wiihaveaproblem.com.


Researchers at Liverpool John Moores University University's
school of sport and exercise sciences, however, believe wii
consoles are a good thing and could be used to help fight rising
obesity rates among British youngsters.


Using an "active console" burns more calories than a classic one,
because it forces the player to reproduce the same movements they
would do if playing for real.


A young person burns 60 percent more energy using a classic
console than being inactive. Using wii for the same period
increases that rate by 156 percent, according to the university's
study of a dozen 13- to 15-year-olds.


Based on an average weekly use of 12.2 hours, 1,840 calories
would be burned with the new console -- 40 percent more than with
the classic one. That translates to 12.24 kilogrammes over a
year, they calculated.


And with Wii, heart-rate leaps to 130 beats per minute compared
to 85 with the traditional console.

