

South Africa captain Graeme Smith admitted on Thursday that he
desperately needs a top class spinner if the Proteas are ever to
win a World Cup.


His plea came after watching his team crumble to a seven-wicket
defeat to Australia in the semi-finals after being bowled out for
149, their lowest ever score in the World Cup.


But it's the bowling make-up which concerns Smith more as time
and time again throughout the Caribbean tournament, his attack
was made to look ordinary with its steady diet of identical
medium-pace.


"I think one of our challenges is to find a spinner, a spinner
who can help us going forward. Australia have one and so do Sri
Lanka. That is one facet of our game we always talk about," he
said.


Smith's admission will have done little for the brittle
confidence of specialist left-arm spinner Robin Peterson who
played just two games in the World Cup for a one-wicket reward.


"Certainly with the quality of cricket we have back home, we
should be able to find someone and if we do, it will change our
cricket in future."


Smith said he didn't think wholesale rebuilding was required
after bowing out of the tournament.


"There'll be a quite a few guys who will be around and some new
guys will come and we will be stronger. But I don't think Shaun
Pollock will be around in the next World Cup," he said of the
former skipper who will be 38 by the time the 2011 tournament
rolls around.


Meanwhile, Smith said he does not believe his side choked in
Wednesday's semi- final defeat.


"We weren't good enough on the field and were outplayed and you
have to give them credit. You choke when you get a chance to win
a match and then throw it away by not playing well."


South Africa had earned the dubious 'chokers' tag after losing
close matches, including the tied semi-final against Australia in
the 1999 edition in England.


On Wednesday, Australia comfortably surpassed South Africa's
total, winning with more than 18 overs to spare to make their
fourth successive appearance in the Cup final.


They will clash with Sri Lanka in the final in Barbados on
Saturday.


Smith conceded it was the combination of bad shots by his top-
order batsmen and good pace bowling by Australia that led to his
team's defeat.


"I think our top order had played pretty positive in this
tournament. We've been quite aggressive throughout and we felt
that we could be quite aggressive upfront today.


"The ball did swing in the beginning, but once you were three
down it really became very difficult to wrest back the
initiative. With Shaun Tait coming first change, and he is a
strike bowler, it does make life a bit difficult."


South Africa failed to cope with the quality Australian pace
attack, with Tait finishing with four wickets and man-of-the-
match Glenn McGrath with three in his last World Cup.


At one stage, South Africa were 27-5 in the 10th over.


"You don't mind losing when you know that you have played to your
potential and you know what you are capable of. We have those ups
and downs - outstanding performances and then medium sort of
performances," said Smith.


"The guys are disappointed, with two matches away from winning
the World Cup and not giving the performances that you were
looking forward to. We let a lot of people down."

