

The WTO hopes to wrap up a global trade deal by the end of this
year but the political calendar, especially in the United States,
is encouraging some of the major actors to play a waiting game.


After plunging into the deep freeze last year, the World Trade
Organization's "Doha round" of talks seems to have perked up
after a flurry of high-level contacts in recent weeks.


But as WTO director-general Pascal Lamy underlined on a visit to
Washington this week, which was dominated by meetings with
members of Congress, time is of the essence and there is "no plan
B" should Doha fail.


WTO members face an uphill battle to conclude a deal before June
30, when US President George W. Bush's "Trade Promotion
Authority" (TPA) to speed such pacts through Congress expires.


Speaking after talks Wednesday with US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab, Lamy said the Doha round was "nearing crunch time" on the
pivotal issues of agricultural trade and industrial market
access.


"We need Congress to be aware that activity, motion,
determination, progress in a renewal of Trade Promotion Authority
is important for the momentum in the negotiations," he said.


The WTO chief said it was up to the big developing countries to
play a breakthrough role along with the two most powerful players
in the process, the United States and European Union.


Only through concessions from the likes of India and Brazil can
the US Congress even entertain the idea of renewing TPA. "It's
much easier to do that with something on the table than in a sort
of vacuum," he said.


This month in New Delhi, Schwab and trade chiefs from the EU,
India, Brazil, Australia and Japan said they believed that
through harder work, "we can reach convergence and thus
contribute to concluding the round by the end of 2007."


The Doha round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.


The meeting in the Indian capital marked the first time the
leading trade powers had assembled for talks since the Doha
discussions collapsed last July.


Even if a quick breakthrough can be achieved, and that remains an
open question, the TPA issue is a major complicating factor.


The Democratic-led Congress shows little appetite for handing
Bush a new fast- track authority, and thus from June is likely to
regain the power to take apart any trade deal line by line.


And as noted recently by Max Baucus, the Democratic chairman of
the Senate's powerful finance committee, there is still less
incentive to renew TPA without the impetus of a Doha deal on the
horizon.


"Obviously the content of the outcome is more important than a
specific deadline and I suspect Pascal heard that from the
(Capitol) Hill," Schwab said.


"Let's step up the pace to see if we can get this done and shoot
for the end of the year, give or take," she added.


The "G4" group of leading WTO actors -- the EU, United States,
Brazil and India -- plan a series of ministerial meetings over
the next two months, starting in Paris in mid-May.


The French capital could prove an appropriate venue should the
new president of France take a less hardline stance over farming
subsidies than outgoing leader Jacques Chirac, a staunch defender
of EU agriculture payouts.


Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy or socialist Segolene Royal will be
elected Chirac's successor in a second-round ballot on May 6, a
date that is also focussing minds in the WTO waiting game.


Schwab said the G4 powers hope in time "to make a recommendation
to our colleagues that works pretty darn close to where we would
come out if all 15O (WTO) members were around."

