

Ignoring the promise of a veto by President George W. Bush, the
US House of Representatives was set Wednesday to approve a war
funding bill that includes a timetable for pulling US troops out
of Iraq.


Republicans and Democrats dug in their heels, showing no signs of
flexibility after a closed-door session with the visiting top
army general in Iraq, David Petraeus, who has championed the
troop "surge" strategy.


"If the president vetoes this legislation he will not only be
vetoing full funding for our troops, but ignoring, in my opinion,
the will of the American people," said House Democratic majority
leader Steny Hoyer.


"Our belief that we must hold the Iraqis accountable for
achieving real progress and establish a timetable for a
responsible deployment of American forces was also reinforced."


Petraeus urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the new policy
-- sending 28,000 additional troops, announced in January --
despite a spike in violence including in Diyala on Monday where
nine US troops were killed.


"General Petraeus continued to say that he can give a
comprehensive assessment as to whether or not the surge is in
fact working around September," said Democratic Representative
James Clyburn.


The bill, which still requires approval by the Senate before it
goes to Bush's desk, provides 124.2 billion dollars -- even more
than the administration sought -- to bankroll operations in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


But the generosity, meant to respond to needs of veterans
returning from war who at times have faced poor quality medical
care, comes with a pricetag: US troops are to start withdrawing
from Iraq in October, with a non-binding target date of
completing the pullout by March 31.


Clyburn said that if Petraeus could make good on his pledge to
offer an assessment of the "surge" strategy by September, "then
what is wrong with October 1 as a date for us to start
redeploying, if there's success?"


But Republican House leader John Boehner said he agreed with
Petraeus' argument that setting limits on troop deployment in
Iraq would not help US efforts to restore stability.


"It would hurt the very cause that we seek to win there," Boehner
said.


Ahead of the promised presidential veto, expected next week, both
sides are scrambling to squeeze the maximum political mileage out
of the debate, stepping up their rhetorical jabs.


Vice President Dick Cheney has branded Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid "defeatist" for saying that the war was already lost
at least on the military front and added "timetable legislation
... would guarantee defeat."


Democratic House leader Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday said the bill
would mean Bush "will have to face up, will have to be
accountable for this war in Iraq. And he does not want to face
that reality."


Backed by surveys showing the Iraq war is hugely unpopular, which
helped their party forge their majority in Congress, Democrats
argue there is a general desire for a new direction in Iraq
strategy.


The White House has slammed as political expediency the
Democrats' stated desire to implement what the US public wants in
Iraq.


"(Petraeus) reminded us... this is a test of wills and he
admonished us, reminded us that what we say to the world, to our
adversaries and our allies, is listened to by the other side,"
said Republican Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee.


In the medium range, despite the rhetoric, no one doubts that the
Democratic-led Congress will disburse the funds the Pentagon is
requesting -- but on terms that remain very much up in the air.


Among possible solutions: the Democrats could release funds one
small chunk at a time to keep the Iraq debate at the center of
political dialogue.


Or it could impose targets forcing the administration to justify
progress it says is being made.

