

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index struck a
record peak Wednesday, smashing the 13,000-point barrier for the
first time as investors cheered ballooning corporate profits.


The blue chip share gauge rocketed to a close of 13,089.89 points
in frenzied trading as bullish investors propelled the index to
new heights.


Wall Street veterans said the 13,000-point mark was a
psychological milestone and would likely help cement market
optimism despite concerns about US economic growth and a
widespread housing slump.


The Dow closed on the back of a hefty 135.95 point gain, 1.05
percent, compared with Tuesday, as other share gauges notched up
multi-year gains.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite closed up a robust 23.35 points,
0.92 percent, at 2,547.89 while the broad-market Standard and
Poor's 500 index finished up a heady 15.01 points, 1.01 percent,
at 1,495.42.


The Nasdaq rose to its best close since February 2001 while the
S&P index finished at its highest level since April 2000.


"The Dow hit 13,000 ... and kept on going. Today's record-
shattering performance extended the best monthly rally on Wall
Street in more than three years," said Al Goldman, chief market
strategist at AG Edwards.


American shares have leapt higher in recent days as investors
applauded a steady flow of strong profit reports from major
corporations, especially from the banking sector, and several big
mergers and acquisitions.


The good news for shareholders continued Wednesday as Boeing Co.
said its first-quarter profits soared 28 percent from a year ago
to 877 million dollars as new aircraft orders boomed.


The aerospace giant's shares finished up 1.02 dollars at 94.69
dollars.


Strong first quarter earnings from ConocoPhillips, Colgate-
Palmolive, PepsiCo and online retailer Amazon.com also added to
the festive mood on Wall Street, traders said.


An acquisition binge by big private equity firms, including a
record 45-billion- dollar bid for Texas energy group TXU in late
February, has also stoked shares higher since the start of the
year.


Some analysts cautioned investors to go slow on the champagne,
however, cautioning that a market "correction" could now be on
the cards, especially as dark clouds continue to hover over the
world's largest economy.


An initial reading on US gross domestic product for the first
quarter, due for release Friday, is widely expected to show a
further slowdown in economic activity.


Fears about the housing market slump and rising home foreclosures
as well as high gasoline prices could also hamper Wall Street's
party spirit.


"The market showed good resilience after the disappointing
existing home sales data yesterday (Tuesday), but our comments
yesterday that the economic trends are worrisome still hold,"
said Dick Green, president at Briefing.com.


US existing home sales plummeted dramatically last month, to an
annualized pace of 6.12 million units, as the market endured its
biggest monthly fall in over 18 years, according to an industry
survey Tuesday.


Wednesday's housing news was not so bleak.


The government said new home sales rebounded 2.6 percent in April
to an annualized pace of 858,000 units, but the rise was weaker-
than-forecast and new homes sales represent less of the market
than existing property sales.


And despite booming corporate profits, traders cautioned that
stocks could still be vulnerable to oil price jumps. New York oil
prices closed up 1.26 dollars at 65.84 dollars a barrel.


US stocks also remain exposed to global equity moves as witnessed
in late February when a sharp dive in Chinese stocks, amid fears
of an equity bubble, sent American shares into a steep tailspin.


Bond prices, which move in an opposite direction to yields, fell
as investors switched into stocks.


The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.646 percent
from 4.622 percent Tuesday and that on the 30-year bond climbed
to 4.830 percent against 4.804 percent.

