

A by-election in a tiny Malaysian area Saturday has big
implications for both the government and former deputy prime
minister Anwar Ibrahim, who is making a political comeback.


Anwar's leadership of the opposition campaign marks the first
time he has returned in force to Malaysia's political scene since
his sacking nine years ago by former Prime Minister Mahathir
Mohamad.


He is still barred from standing for public office himself.


The fight for the semi-rural Ijok seat, in western Selangor
state, pits the ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition against
the opposition People's Justice Party, or Keadilan, formally run
by Anwar's wife.


Voting follows a rough-and-tumble campaign that saw scuffles
between the rival camps, and allegations by Anwar that police
stopped some of his rallies.


Police denied the allegation and said they would send in 1,000
reinforcements ahead of the vote. Roadblocks were set up to
secure the area.


"For BN, this is the most serious electoral contest since its
clean sweep at the 2004 general election, for the simple reason
that Anwar is now spearheading the opposition," said Yang Razali
Kassim, of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at
Singapore's Nanyang Technological University.


"A one-time prime minister-in-waiting is now leading the charge
against the BN. If there is any erosion of support, it will
signal future problems for the BN and embolden the opposition,"
he told AFP.


Both the BN, or National Front, and Keadilan see the Ijok ballot
as a key test ahead of general elections expected well before
they must be held in 2009.


"There is no doubt it is a tough fight," said political analyst
Mohammad Agus Yusoff from the National University of Malaysia.


BN is more likely to win "as they have a formidable machinery and
they are more focused," he predicted.


"But in terms of people attending the gatherings and talks,
Keadilan managed to pull crowds with their highly-charged
speeches and rhetoric."


Mahathir fired Anwar after he faced sodomy and corruption charges
that landed him in jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was later overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 2008.


Anwar said he believes a national vote will be called prior to
April, to prevent him from running.


The ban did not stop him from winning fans as he spoke to various
ethnic groups last weekend. He called for a "war on poverty" and
alleged rampant corruption under the National Front, led by Prime
Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi's United Malays National
Organisation.


The Malaysian Indian Congress, part of the BN coalition, is
fielding K. Parthiban, 38, as its Ijok candidate against
Keadilan's Abdul Khalid Ibrahim, 61.


BN defeated Keadilan by 1,649 votes in the last state election in
2004.


Keadilan is hoping to use Anwar's star power to gain support for
the party, whose profile has declined since its creation in the
wake of his 1998 sacking from government.


"It will energise Keadilan. It is the biggest challenge for us
and if we win then we will be able to move forward," Abdul Khalid
told AFP.


Ijok was once an agricultural-based constituency surrounded by
vast rubber and oil palm estates but many of the town's younger
people now work in factories outside the area.


A state lawmaker's death earlier this month precipitated the by-
election in the constituency of 12,372 voters, most of whom are
ethnic Malays.


After the announcement of the poll, new street lamps and traffic
lights sprung up while narrow, potholed roads were being widened
and freshly tarred in a place normally regarded as a backwater.


Yang Razali predicted BN will win with a narrow victory but said
a narrow loss was "not an impossibility."


But he said it would take more than a defeat in Ijok to halt
Anwar's political comeback.


Mohammad Agus agreed and said BN would have to accept that Anwar
has returned.


"The underlying message is that Anwar is back in politics. This
is a good signal for BN leaders to think of how to overcome this
challenge, whether or not Keadilan wins."

