

The latest chapter in South Africa's sorry World Cup history was
put down to a case of stage fright by former stars Wednesday as
the Proteas once again suffered semi-final heartache at the hands
of Australia.


The much-vaunted South African top order, including Jacques
Kallis and Graeme Smith, were all back inside the pavilion within
the first 10 overs as they collapsed to 27-5 in a sequence that
left some of their former team-mates stunned.


"The first hour was some of the craziest cricket South Africa
have ever played," said former batsman Daryl Cullinan.


South Africa's convenor of selectors Haroot Lorgat said the
wickets had been "very poor, very soft dismissals".


"Nobody was up to it today," he said on SuperSport television.


Lorgat feared the team had been undone by nerves despite claims
by coach Mickey Arthur they were taking everything in their
stride rather than be weighed down by past failures, including
their 1999 semi-final exit to Australia.


"I wonder how much tension was in them despite what Mickey was
saying about their calmness because I just did not see what I was
expecting to see," he said.


His view was echoed by one-time skipper Kepler Wessels who
suspected current captain Graeme Smith's pre-match confidence was
all a show.


"You're always going to be uptight, nervous. That would have been
a common thread, to put on a united front but everyone would have
been pretty tense."


Wessels, who also played for Australia when South Africa were
frozen out of international cricket during the apartheid era,
called for a major rethink of the Proteas' whole approach to one-
day cricket .


The Proteas have been widely criticised for their lack of a
match-winning spin bowler and once again took on the Australians
with an all-pace attack that showed little sign of penetration.


While Australia's pace bowlers did most of the damage, their
spinner Brad Hogg conceded only 24 runs in his 10 overs


"The Australians outplayed us in every department," said Wessels.


"We cannot continue to play such predictable cricket. It's so
easy to play South Africa."


South Africa had gone into the tournament as the number one
ranked team in the world but Lorgat was among the first to
acknowledge they had been completely outplayed by the side they
had dislodged from the top spot.


"Today we were just flat, just completely nowhere in the game."


Former batsman Adam Bacher said the gap between the two teams was
almost embarrassing.


"It was boys against men," he said on public television. "They
taught us a cricket lesson."

