

Diplomats from two of the world's most secretive nations, North
Korea and Myanmar, met Thursday to discuss restoring relations in
what analysts said could be an effort to bypass western
sanctions.


The two nations, among the poorest and most isolated in Asia,
have been branded "outposts of tyranny" by the United States but
have had no official relations between themselves for more than
two decades.


But early Thursday, North Korea's deputy foreign minister Kim
Yong-Il met with his Myanmar counterpart Kyaw Thu for about an
hour in Yangon, on a mission that diplomats said aimed to
finalise plans to restore their ties.


After the meeting, they were joined by China's ambassador to
Myanmar, and they left together for a hotel where the North
Korean delegation is staying, according to an AFP correspondent
at the scene.


A Myanmar foreign ministry official had said one year ago that
its military regime wanted to restore ties with Pyongyang.


If the talks on Thursday go well, Asian diplomats in Yangon said
the North Korean team could meet top military generals later in
the week to officially resume relations.


Neither side has given any details about the visit. Asked by AFP
about the talks, Kim Yong-Il said only: "I wish you would wait."


Both countries are international outcasts in their own way --
Myanmar has been under military rule in various guises since 1962
and is widely accused of rights abuses.


Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, whose National League for
Democracy party won 1990 elections but has never been allowed to
take office, has spent more than a decade under house arrest.


As for North Korea, its people are impoverished but the hardline
Stalinist regime led by the unpredictable Kim Jong-Il stunned the
world with its first ever nuclear weapons test last October.


Myanmar severed ties with North Korea in 1983, after Pyongyang
staged a deadly bomb attack in a failed assassination attempt on
South Korea's then president Chun Doo Hwan, who was on an
official visit to Yangon.


Chun survived the blast but it killed 17 of his entourage,
including four cabinet ministers, while 17 others were wounded.
Four Myanmar officials also died.


The attack happened near one of Myanmar's most cherished
landmarks, the Martyr's Mausoleum near the famous Shwedagon
pagoda.


One of the North Korean agents is still detained in Insein Prison
outside Yangon.


But in recent years, relations between the two countries have
slowly warmed, possibly in response to a shared perception that
they have a common foe in the United States and the West more
broadly, analysts said.


"These countries are at odds with the US and the West. All
countries that are odds with the US should work together, that is
their idea," Thailand-based analyst Aung Naing Oo said.


"It's not a secret that the Burmese military admires North Korea
for being able to square off with the United States with the
nuclear issue," he said.


"Beyond that, Burma needs friendship and North Korea is isolated
and needs friendship as well," he added, referring to Myanmar by
its former name.


Closer ties could also provide more practical benefits, with both
countries under a raft of sanctions -- North Korea over its
nuclear weapons drive and Myanmar over rights abuses.


"There is an arms embargo on the Burmese military, so maybe the
Burmese military is looking for (North Korean) arms systems using
Burmese resources -- like rice. You don't have to pay with hard
currency, you could barter," Aung Naing Oo said.


The two countries may also believe that teaming up will provide
them with increased leverage in dealing with the United States,
Myanmar military analyst Win Min said.


"For Burma, having North Korea will give some leverage in dealing
with the US, so they can continue somehow to deal with their
weapons systems," Win Min said.

