

Korean supporters in Japan of the communist regime in North Korea
on Thursday denounced what they called police abuse and attempts
to link them to an emotionally charged political dispute.


Police on Wednesday launched a new raid on the General
Association of Korean Residents in Japan -- better known as
Chongryon -- and confiscated several boxes and computers related
to an alleged past abduction of two children.


Chongryon showed a news conference a video of a scuffle during
the raid showing a small group of policemen forcing a man to the
ground and handcuffing him. Amid shouting by police, a woman was
heard yelling, "Stop the violence!"


Ko Dok U, vice chairman of Chongryon, alleged that police kicked
and beat the Korean man and smashed his glasses.


"The fact that this is allowed by police in a democratic country
like Japan is so shocking that it is unforgivable," Ko said.


A spokesman for the Tokyo Metropolitan Police denied the
allegation.


"We are not aware of inflicting injury on any particular person
Wednesday," he said.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has built his career demanding a hard
line on North Korea over its abductions of Japanese civilians in
the 1970s and 1980s to train its spies.


North Korea repatriated five victims and their families in 2002
and says the case is closed. Abe says more abductees are alive
and vowed Thursday to raise the issue as he headed to the United
States for a summit with President George W. Bush.


Hundreds of policemen carried out the raid Wednesday on suspicion
that Chongryon executives knew about the "abduction" in 1974 of a
young girl and her brother who are part Korean and part Japanese.


"This extremely tyrannical political repression of Chongryon is
an attempt to politicise the abduction issue before the prime
minister's visit to the United States," Ko said.


He denied media reports that police have requested to question
three top executives of the group.


The two children, Kiyome Watanabe, then aged six, and her brother
Tsuyoshi, then aged three, disappeared in June 1974 from the
coastal Fukui province.


More than 600,000 Koreans live in Japan, most of whom either
immigrated or were enslaved during colonial rule or their
descendants. A disputed number are affiliated with North Korea.

