

President Vladimir Putin was expected to recap his achievements
during two terms in office and highlight priorities for his
successor Thursday when he delivers his last state of the nation
address before presidential elections next year.


The speech to Russia's two houses of parliament starting at 0800
GMT will be closely watched as Putin looks to his own legacy
after a nostalgia-filled funeral on Wednesday for Russia's first
democratically elected president, Boris Yeltsin.


In a sombre televised address following the first post-Soviet
leader's death on Monday, Putin, who has repudiated many of his
predecessor's policies, honoured Yeltsin.


"A man thanks to whom a new era began has passed away. A new,
democratic Russia was born -- a free state open to the world. A
state in which power genuinely belongs to the people," Putin
said.


Putin also called a national day of mourning for Wednesday and
announced plans for a grandiose funeral that analysts have said
signals an attempt by the Kremlin to embrace Yeltsin's democratic
legacy.


The Russian president had been due to deliver his eighth state of
the nation speech, which serves as a key indicator for Kremlin
policies in the year ahead, on Wednesday but it was delayed by
one day due to the funeral.


Many observers will also be watching out for any sign that Putin
wants to stay in office beyond 2008, a move that would involve
changing the Russian constitution to serve for more than two
consecutive terms.


Putin has consistently denied for years that he has any such
plans. Nonetheless, the speaker of Russia's upper house of
parliament, Sergei Mironov, raised the possibility in a speech
last month and suggested that regional assemblies discuss lifting
the constitutional term limit.


Putin is very popular in Russia, mainly for bringing greater
stability and prosperity. But he has been accused by critics of
rolling back the democratic freedoms that Yeltsin helped foster.


Yeltsin, on the other hand, ranks low in opinion polls because of
strong memories among many Russians of the poverty that his
reforms brought and of the disastrous war in Chechnya that he
launched.


Putin is also expected to sum up progress since his last speech
in May 2006.


Last year, the Russian president highlighted the problems of
corruption and the country's low birthrate, as well as
spotlighting military and economic rivalry with Washington.


"The most serious problem in contemporary Russia is demography,"
Putin said then, estimating that Russia's population of just
under 143 million people was falling by an average of 700,000 a
year.


Turning to foreign policy matters, Putin last year took a swipe
at US foreign policy and pointed to arms spending in the United
States, saying: "It is premature to speak of the end of the arms
race."


The Russian leader is also expected to address international
issues in which Moscow's position plays a key role, including
controversies over Iran's nuclear programme and the status of the
south Serbian province of Kosovo.

