

Along with other unwanted legacies of its brief war, Kosovo is
plagued with growing packs of stray dogs and is offering a bounty
for the tail of every hound gunned down and killed off.


The move has raised the ire of animal welfare activists,
including the high- profile former French film siren Brigitte
Bardot, who see the strays as forgotten victims of the 1998-1999
conflict and its tumultuous aftermath.


Locals offer a less benevolent counterpoint, calling the roaming
packs intimidating, disease-carrying pests.


And as in neighboring countries with a similar problem like
Romania, many support the hunt.


"Their number keeps growing rapidly. If we don't undertake such
actions, we will be soon overcome by stray dogs," said Fadil
Qela, an agricultural official who has supervised culls in the
northern city of Mitrovica.


The catalyst in his region was the death of a seven-year-old
child who died after he was "torn apart" by a pack two years ago,
he said. A total 370 dogs have since been shot dead in five
separate hunts by a local Mitrovica association in February and
March.


The animals -- many of them former pets abandoned during and
after the war -- roam around urban centres including Pristina,
the capital of the United Nations- run Serbian province.


Packs of hounds have even found shelter in the heavily fortified
area around the headquarters of the UN mission in Kosovo, in the
heart of the capital.


Bardot and others criticise the mass shootings -- and the
monetary incentive, at 10 dollars (7.5 euros) a tail, turning
citizens into bounty hunters -- as futile.


But locals point to scary encounters to justify the initiative,
including Burbuqe Thaqi, a journalist for the Koha Ditore
newspaper who was attacked and bitten in downtown Pristina.


"One of a pack of more than a dozen dogs lying on a square jumped
up and barked madly before driving one of his two upper teeth
into my leg," she recalled


She was spared greater harm when a group of drivers at a nearby
taxi rank jumped to action, but is still shaken by the incident.


"From that time on, I haven't even been able to go to my
boyfriend's home as they have a dog," she said.


There is no official data on the number of strays, but various
estimates put the figure at up to 30,000 in this tiny province of
two million people.


Their numbers spiralled out of control after the war, as
attention understandably was focussed on more pressing
priorities.


But an upsurge in complaints prompted authorities to turn to
local hunting associations for help. The latest cull targets
Pristina, where officials have called for at least 500 dogs to be
shot in the coming weeks. And the hunts have the backing of both
police and NATO-led peacekeepers in Kosovo.


Qela said they are carefully organised to avoid harm to
residents, held early on Sundays when streets are empty.


"Hunters were followed by police patrols and public services
workers who collected the carcasses and buried them in the city
garbage dump," said Qela, adding the reward is " 7.50 euros (10
dollars) for the tail of each dog killed."


The mass shootings were necessary, especially before winter when
strays get "extremely aggressive" due to a lack of food, Qela
said.


Nazim Pantina, an official in the northern town of Vucitrn where
425 strays were killed in two culls last year, said there was
mounting pressure from worried parents to carry on with the
kills.


In cash-strapped Kosovo, the hunts have won backing since funding
is lacking for more "humane" methods, such as neutering then
releasing stray dogs.


But Visar Uflla, who hosts a popular local animal television show
and has tried to organise shelters and adoption for strays, feels
the situation has been exaggerated.


"Hundreds of dogs, among them puppies and bitches looking for
food, are killed because of one aggressive dog," she said.


Bardot sent an open letter of protest this month to Pristina
Mayor Ismet Beqiri.


"Kosovo has survived a lot of dramas in the previous years, but
by no means should that justify a barbarian act to eradicate the
most loyal and best friend of man," she wrote.


Beqiri, who invited Bardot to come to Pristina, told AFP he feels
caught in the middle.


"I'm against any killing, no matter the target. But we are under
permanent pressure from citizens who demand security for their
children from stray and aggressive dogs."


Mindful of Kosovo's war, when a 78-day NATO bombing campaign
forced Serbian- dominated Yugoslav security forces to end a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians, Uflla appealed for a non-
violent solution to the roaming strays.


"Killing is not and cannot be a solution if we want a Kosovo with
no killing any more," he said.

