

The scars of South Africa's worst ever stadium tragedy will be
reopened on Saturday when Ellis Park plays host to the Soweto
derby for the first time since a stampede claimed the lives of 43
people.


A sell-out 48,000 crowd is expected to watch Kaizer Chiefs play
arch rivals the Orlando Pirates at the stadium in downtown
Johannesburg but many fans caught up in the tragic events of
April 11, 2001, are planning to stay away.


"It hurts me to hear that they are now taking this match back
there when we are still struggling to come to terms with our
loss," said the Reverend N H Maphanga whose daughter and son-in-
law died that night.


"I'm struggling to bring up my daughter's child now ... Those
people don't care."


Scores of other supporters were injured six years ago in the
crush which began when fans who had tickets tried to barge their
way through turnstyles when they heard that the Chiefs had scored
an early goal.


Most of the victims were killed at an entrance on the east side
of the ground that became known as the Gate of Hell.


Many fans are still furious that the match was not called off
immediately but instead continued for nearly 10 minutes as bodies
began being piled up behind the goals.


Since the disaster, all subsequent matches between the two
biggest teams in South Africa have taken place at the Soccer City
stadium in the township of Soweto on the outskirts of
Johannesburg.


But with the stadium closed for rebuilding ahead of the 2010
World Cup, the decision was made by the Premier Soccer League to
stage the match once more at Ellis Park. A massive security
operation is being put in place for the match, with the capacity
reduced from the normal 60,000 who can attend rugby matches.


The decision however has stunned many fans whose memories of the
stampede remain all too vivid.


"How can they take the match back to where such bad things
happened," said Ephraim Mofokeng who was left partially paralyzed
by the crush.


Mofokeng said he certainly would not be attending Saturday's
match.


"That incident has traumatized me too much. I don't want to talk
about it. I just want to put it behind me."


A judicial inquiry recommended that future derby games be all-
ticket affairs and be played in the day-time.


The 2001 match was played on a Wednesday night, ensuring that
many fans cut it fine leaving after working and arriving at
around the same time.


The atmosphere should also be less charged this Saturday.


In 2001, the match was crucial with both sides chasing the
championship. But with Pretoria's Mamelodi Sundowns winning the
title last weekend, the Chiefs and Pirates are only playing for
pride.


Veli Mpungose, whose young son Simphiwe was among those who lost
their lives, will be among those singing from the stands while
struggling also to hold back his tears.


"I am a big soccer fan and though it will be very painful, I plan
to go," he said.


Mpungose however is among those who fears the authorities'
insistence that such a tragic event could not happen again is
misplaced.


Both the Pirates and Chiefs have been ordered to play matches
behind closed doors in the last couple of seasons following
serious crowd unrest.


Chiefs fans earned themselves a lock-out this season when they
ripped out seats and began hurling them at their own team and
coach when they lost to unfancied opposition at Soccer City.


"I've been to matches since that night. But it really disappoints
me to see that security is not as strong as it should be. I just
hope that things will be different on Saturday."

