

US President George W. Bush is to host Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe Thursday for talks on pariah state North Korea,
Tokyo's ever bolder global role and maybe even the leaders'
shared love of baseball.


During two days of meetings, the White House hopes the leaders
will build on a strategic relationship that grew under Abe's
predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi, one of Bush's closest
international allies and staunchest backers of the war in Iraq.


"We are like-minded democracies pursuing a common agenda and,
again, that transcends whether it's Prime Minister Koizumi or
Prime Minister Abe," said Dennis Wilder, the US National Security
Council's top East Asia hand.


"We see Japan as our greatest strategic partner in East Asia, and
an increasingly indispensable global partner," Wilder told
reporters Wednesday in a preview of the trip, Abe's first visit
here since taking office last year.


Abe left Japan Thursday for the US Andrews Air Force base near
Washington.


"The Japan-US alliance is the cornerstone of Japan's diplomacy
and national security and as unshakable, irreplaceable allies, we
need to build a firm relationship of trust," he told reporters
before leaving.


Wilder said Bush would reassure Abe during their talks at the
White House and the Camp David presidential retreat about efforts
to convince North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program.


Abe has also said he will press Bush on Japanese citizens
abducted by North Korea, amid worries in Tokyo that Washington
may remove Pyongyang from its list of terrorism sponsors before
the deeply emotional issue is resolved.


"We aren't going to de-link the abductee issue from the state
sponsor of terrorism issue," Wilder said.


Japan has refused to fund an international deal to supply North
Korea with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless
there is progress on the abduction issue.


Bush also hopes the summit with Abe will "develop their personal
relationship further," said Wilder.


"One thing they do share is a love of baseball, and a great deal
of interest in Japan's most significant export to the United
States in the last year," said Wilder, referring to pitcher
Daisuke Matsuzaka of the Boston Red Sox.


Bush and Abe will also discuss Tokyo's increasingly bold global
role and may touch on World War II era disputes roiling Japan's
relations with its neighbors.


Wilder said such matters would not be central to the visit, but
cautioned that Tokyo still had work to do on easing tensions over
so-called "comfort women" driven into brothels by Japan's
military.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of women
into brothels across Asia.


He has since stressed he stands by Japan's landmark 1993 apology
to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor" on the issue in a
telephone conversation early this month, according to the White
House.


Abe said before leaving: "I would like to build a relationship
with the (US) president in which we can discuss everything
frankly."


Wilder joked about one of the stickier trade issues the two
leaders were expected to discuss -- Japanese curbs on US beef
imports.


"If you ask my personal recommendation, I think obviously Prime
Minister Abe ought to have a steak dinner sometime while he's
here in Washington," said Wilder. He declined comment on the
official dinner fare.


Asked about a possible steak dinner, a senior Japanese official
briefing reporters on Abe's visit replied: "I'm sure Prime
Minister Abe would enjoy it."


Japan this week agreed to ease its strict inspection regime on
imports of US beef, which it had imposed over concerns about mad-
cow disease.


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of defeat in that conflict, including
his country's US-imposed pacifist constitution.


And he recently decided to extend by two years an air mission
flying goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended its
ground troop deployment last year.

