

The Iraqi government should immediately resume the release of
official figures on civilian casualties, a human rights group
said Wednesday.


Responding to a United Nations complaint that the government of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki had refused to provide the data for
the latest UN report, Human Rights Watch said the information was
important for the security situation in the war-torn country.


"In the past, the Iraqi government has released official data on
civilian injuries and deaths -- an important barometer of the
war's human cost," the New York-based non-governmental
organization said in a statement.


"But in an apparent reversal of policy, the government has
refused to provide the United Nations with current data, which
the UN requested for its new human rights report, released on
April 25, 2007," it said.


Human Rights Watch said UN officials had said the Iraqi
government gave no official reason for withholding the data, but
unofficially expressed concern that the numbers could paint a
starkly grim situation.


"Iraqi citizens face extreme violence every day and they deserve
a full and accurate picture of what is taking place," Sarah Leah
Whitson, Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, said in the
statement.


"The Iraqi government should make public its figures on civilian
deaths even if the picture is bleak. Withholding the facts will
not make the situation any safer."


According to the UN quarterly report on human rights in Iraq
released Wednesday, covering January through March, large-scale
indiscriminate killings and targeted assassinations had continued
to hamstring efforts to bring lasting stability and security to
Iraq and casualties continued to climb.


In a departure from previous quarterly reports by the UN
Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), Wednesday's report does not
contain official Iraqi statistics of violent deaths.


The UN mission said in its report that the Iraqi government had
stopped providing casualty figures and denied that its previous
reports had exaggerated the death toll in the conflict.


In a report on January 16, UNAMI said more than 34,400 people had
died in the daily acts of violence across the country in 2006.


"The prime minister's office told UNAMI that the mortality
figures contained in the report were exaggerated, although they
were in fact figures compiled and provided by a government
ministry," UNAMI said Wednesday.

