

Phil Mickelson puts his new partnership with Butch Harmon -
former swing coach of Tiger Woods - to the test this week at the
Byron Nelson Classic.


Mickelson ended more than a month of speculation this week when
he confirmed on his website that he had asked his longtime
instructor and friend Rick Smith to step aside and asked Harmon
to take over as his coach.


"This has been a difficult decision for me," Mickelson said on
his website. "I feel that now is the time to go in a new
direction with Butch Harmon on my long game."


Harmon helped shape Tiger Woods' game, the US superstar capturing
eight major championships during their 10 years together, which
ended in 2004.


Harmon also coached former world No. 1 Greg Norman, and worked
with another Australian Adam Scott, whose current world No. 3
ranking is higher than Mickelson's.


Harmon observed Mickelson on the practice range at the WGC Match
Play Championship in February and at the WGC-CA Championship last
month.


The American is keen to improve the accuracy of his long game
which was responsible for his final hole collapse at the US Open
last summer and believes that Harmon is the man he needs.


In Irving, Mickelson will be making his first start since a
disappointing tie for 24th at The Masters.


Apart from two good weeks back-to-back early this year - a
victory at Pebble Beach and a playoff loss at Riviera - his
season has been disappointing, without another top 10 finish.


Mickelson is the highest-ranked player in th field for the 6.3
million-dollar event, which is hosted by the TPC Four Seasons at
Las Colinas and also used the Cottonwood Valley golf course.


The 2007 edition of the tournament is the first to be held since
the death of its host and namesake, who died seven months ago.


World No. 7 Vijay Singh of Fiji, whose two week break since a tie
for 13th at The Masters is his longest hiatus of the season, is
also entered.


Singh won the season opener on Maui and the Arnold Palmer
Invitational in March, and also has five under top-20 finishes.


The field also includes England's Luke Donald, Spain's Sergio
Garcia, Australian Robert Allenby and South African Rory
Sabbatini - who finished tied for second at the Masters.


Brett Wetterich, parlayed his victory here last year to a Ryder
Cup team berth, arrives to defend his title in the midst of a
solid season that includes a runner-up finish to Woods at the WGC
event in Miami in March.

