

A congressional committee took steps Wednesday toward issuing a
subpoena for Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to testify about
discredited assertions about Iraq's prewar nuclear intentions,
but her spokesman said she would resist.


Democrat Henry Waxman, chairman of the House Government Reform
Committee, said the panel is interested in learning how the White
House came to make bogus assertions that Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein had been trying to obtain enriched uranium from Niger.


Waxman said at a hearing Wednesday that Rice's tenure as
President George W. Bush's national security adviser during his
first term in the White House gives her unique insights into why
the administration pressed its claim about the Niger uranium,
which the president amplified in a State of the Union speech
shortly before the 2003 invasion.


But her spokesman Sean McCormack said her discussions with the
president on the matter were off limits to the committee.


"It's the position of the White House that those matters are
covered by executive privilege," Rice's spokesman Sean McCormack
told reporters Wednesday, when asked whether she would comply if
subpoenaed.


McCormack said Rice's discussions with the president were
privileged, and as such off limits to Congress, although she
would try to provide whatever information she could.


"We are going to continue to work with Chairman Waxman's
committee to try to answer his questions," he said.


Allegations that Iraq was seeking to build weapons of mass
destruction provided the main justification for the 2003 US-led
invasion of Iraq.


Waxman, a California Democrat and longtime Bush adminstration
gadfly expressed frustration with Rice's cooperation thusfar.


"For four years I have been trying to get information from
Secretary Condoleezza Rice on a variety of issues, including the
reference to uranium and Niger in the president's 2003 State of
the Union speech," Waxman said.


"My goal is to conduct investigations without subpoenas. But if
we are stonewalled, then we can't hesitate then to call up the
powers that are available to us," he said.


Deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey, speaking as the
House panel met, said the issue had been scrutinized extensively
in the past and he questioned the Democrats' motives in
authorizing a subpoena for Rice.


"This is perhaps the most investigated single issue we have over
the last several years," Casey said. "It's been addressed by
various commissions ... and any number of other bodies that have
looked at this."


He added: "I think you have to question the motivation behind
looking at something that, in effect, has been addressed and
answered multiple times."


Waxman said that he and Rice for the past several weeks have
exchanged correspondence about her possible testimony, but no
agreement was ever reached.


"I deeply regret that the secretary of state is giving us no
choice but to proceed with a subpoena," said Waxman.


"We have hit a brick wall," he said. "She will not propose a date
to testify. She will not agree to testify. And she insists that
our committee be satisfied with partial information that was
previously submitted to other committees."


Meanwhile, the head of the Republicans in the House of
Representatives, Minority Leader John Boehner, called the move a
Democratic ploy to embarrass the president.


"Subpoenaing Secretary Rice has more to do with political theater
than legitimate oversight goals," he said.


"This inquiry is designed more to obfuscate than to address the
threats facing this country today and for the foreseeable
future," said Boehner.

