

Three North Korean child defectors, who had feared repatriation
to their homeland and possible execution after being detained in
Laos, arrived safely in South Korea on Thursday.


"They are all healthy and they are being protected in a safe
place," a diplomatic source told AFP.


After fleeing via China the three were detained for five months
in Laos, where rights groups said some officials threatened them
with repatriation unless they paid bribes.


The groups publicised their plight and this week the Laotian
government transferred them to the South Korean embassy in
Vientiane.


They have been identified as Choi Hyang, 13, and her 12-year-old
brother Choi Hyok, who lost their mother in 1999 and came to
China in 2002.


The third one is 17-year-old Choi Hyang-Mi, who arrived in China
in 2001 with her mother but was separated from her after the
mother married a Chinese man, activists said.


The teenagers, in appeals written in Laos and circulated by
rights groups, said they could face execution if sent back to
their hardline communist homeland.


"We have come this far in search of freedom. We are unfortunate
children who may die just because we wanted freedom," wrote Choi
Hyang.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans, fleeing hunger or repression
in the North, have crossed the border to China in recent years.


China has an agreement with its ally North Korea to repatriate
those it catches as economic migrants, a policy strongly
criticised by refugee aid groups. The refugees often travel on to
third countries like Mongolia or Thailand in hopes of winning
eventual resettlement in South Korea.


But South Korean diplomats in the past have been accused of being
unhelpful to the refugees, in order to avoid provoking Pyongyang.


Many are helped by rights organisations linked to Protestant
churches in South Korea.


The number of northerners who had made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 war topped the 10,000 mark in February.


Estimates of the number hiding out in northeast China range from
tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.


Human Rights Watch last month said North Korea has toughened its
punishments for people caught trying to flee -- including
imposing longer prison terms during which inmates face beatings
and starvation.

