

Sport is war minus shooting, said George Orwell and Sri Lanka's
cricketers are doing their part in keeping the guns silent.


Cricket is such an obsession in the strife-torn nation that the
team's progress to the World Cup final in the Caribbean has
produced a temporary peace dividend 15,000km away at home.


On Tuesday, Tamil Tiger rebels and government soldiers held a
truce as their national side reached the final by beating New
Zealand by 81 runs in Jamaica.


But five hours after the match, it was bloodshed as usual as two
policemen were killed in a roadside bomb attack in Ampara in the
east of the island.


Police and military officials said there were no clashes reported
during the live broadcast of the match.


A military source said instructions had gone out to troops and
police to maintain a high alert, although the Tigers had
announced that they would cease action during the match.


"There were specific instructions to maintain a high alert and
ensure that men who were on duty remained in their posts and did
not scoot off to watch the match," the source said.


The Tigers had said earlier there would be no attacks while the
match was on.


"There may not be any attacks ... because we are also watching
the match," Tiger spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said. Tamil Tiger
supremo Velupillai Prabhakaran is believed to be a cricket fan.


Sport and war have always been uneasy partners.


The Christmas truce of 1914 on the Western Front in the First
World War is believed to have included an impromptu international
football match between German and Allied soldiers in no-man's
land.


Letters sent home from the front claimed the Germans won 3-2.


Football played a part in sparking an armed conflict in 1969
between  feuding central American neighbours El Salvador and
Honduras.


The Soccer War lasted for 100 hours and was a six-day conflict
which was the culmination of a long period of political and
social tensions between the two countries.


These disputes were inflamed by rioting during a World Cup
qualifier between the two. On July 14, 1969, the Salvadoran army
launched an attack.


A ceasefire was eventually negotiated on July 20, with Salvadoran
troops withdrawing in August.


Over 30 years later, sportsmen were still falling in battle.


In April 2004, Pat Tillman, who turned down a 3.6-million-dollar
contract to play in the NFL with the Arizona Cardinals, was
killed in action in Afghanistan.


He had enlisted in the Rangers in the wake of the September 11
attacks.


Cricketers played major roles in the Second World War.


English left-arm spinner Hedley Verity, who had played in 40 Test
matches, died of his wounds in Italy in 1943, two months after
his 38th birthday.


Verity, a captain in the Green Howards, had been shot in the
chest during the Eighth Army's attack on German positions at
Catania, in Sicily.


Australian all-ronder Keith Miller survived the war where his
experiences as a fighter pilot taught him to keep his sporting
career in perspective.


When asked if he ever felt the strain as a Test cricketer, Miller
famously replied: "Pressure is a Messerschmitt up your arse,
playing cricket is not."

