

The Iranian and EU nuclear negotiators reported progress in a new
effort to resolve the crisis over Tehran's atomic ambitions and
said they would meet again in two weeks.


"There are ideas on the table," Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani
told reporters late Wednesday after meeting for almost five
hours, including a working dinner, with EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana, about ending the standoff caused by Iran's
defiance of UN Security Council demands for it to stop enriching
uranium.


The Council has imposed limited sanctions as punishment.


Uranium is enriched to make fuel for civilian nuclear reactors
but also in highly refined form to produce the explosive core of
atom bombs.


"In about two weeks time again we would be having some more
talks," Larijani said.


He described the talks as "pleasant."


Solana, who represents six world powers Britain, China, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States trying to start formal
negotiations, said it was a "constructive dinner."


"I hope we will continue in the coming weeks also," Solana said.


Tehran denies US charges that it is trying to build nuclear
weapons, saying its programme is a peaceful effort to generate
civilian nuclear power.


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said in Tehran
Wednesday the Ankara talks had "two pillars, accepting Iran's
right of enrichment and addressing ambiguities and the issue of
non-deviation," of nuclear material for military purposes.


"By paying attention to these two we can find a solution that is
satisfactory for both sides. We hope that Mr. Solana has come to
the talks with this intention," Mottaki said.


The six world powers had last June offered economic, technical
and security benefits if Iran agreed to suspend uranium
enrichment, but Tehran pressed ahead and negotiations never
started.


In several rounds of talks, the last in February, Larijani and
Solana had failed to find a way to start meetings with the six.


Solana's spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach, said there were "no
changes in the position of the international community" against
Iran's enriching uranium and added that the priority was simply
to "create conditions for the beginning of negotiations."


Solana and Larijani met for some three hours before breaking for
a tete-a-tete working dinner. The two men ate alone except for a
translator at a small table at the restaurant at the hotel where
they are staying.


The two could be seen huddled over papers, taking notes while
they talked.


They are scheduled to meet Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul
at breakfast Thursday, after which they are expected to make a
joint statement.


Diplomats had said before Wednesday's meeting that there was
little hope of a breakthrough given Iran's steadfast refusal to
freeze its enrichment work.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start formal talks, the two sides remain far apart in
the crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


But the six world powers were ready to compromise and give Iran a
chance to edge its way slowly into stopping uranium enrichment,
the diplomats said.


One diplomat said a new idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond enrichment activities it has already
started, opening the way for further talks with Solana while the
UN holds off on further sanctions.


Non-proliferation expert Gary Samore told AFP by telephone from
Washington that Tehran wants the EU to agree to set up an
international consortium to process fuel for Iran inside the
country.


The major powers want such a consortium to operate outside the
Islamic republic.


A Western diplomat said talks with the six powers -- the five
permanent Security Council members plus Germany -- would not in
any case start before Iran suspends enrichment.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack on Iran but
one diplomat said the reality was that Washington would like
Tehran's help in calming the situation in Iraq and was looking
for some sort of compromise on the nuclear issue in order for
this to happen.

