

Romantic comedies are not normally associated with Wes Craven,
the veteran director responsible for frightening the life out of
successive generations of movie-goers.


But if the 67-year-old director behind horror movies like
"Nightmare on Elm Street", "The Hills Have Eyes" and "Scream" had
his way, film fans would be seeing a lot more of his lighter
side.


Craven's success as the 'Godfather of Horror' has brought him
untold riches as a director. But the flip side is that trying to
make films outside the horror genre has become harder and harder.


"The fact is that if you have Wes Craven directing it's going to
be hard to sell if it's a romantic comedy," Craven says, citing
the example of his 1999 film "Music of the Heart".


"They had to bury my name when we were promoting that film. I
would have frightened too many people away otherwise," Craven
said. "It is a problem."


"The fantasy is that maybe people will look at me and say 'You
know what, this guy is a director.' But it's not just the head of
a studio who needs to make that realization, it's the audience
too.


"A different audience needs to be convinced that I can make
different kinds of movies."


Ironically, Craven says he became a director of horror films by
accident, steered into the genre following the success of his
debut 1972 "The Last House on the Left."


"I was asked to direct this film and it turned out to be a big
sensation," Craven says. "So suddenly I was a horror-film
director."


With his recent involvement in the 2006 film "Paris Je T'Aime",
however, a love letter to the French capital comprising 18 short
films by an all-star cast of directors, Craven was given a rare
chance to branch out.


Fittingly for a Craven-directed film, his contribution was shot
in the ghostly acres of the 20th arrondissement's Pere Lachaise
Cemetery.


But as far as the plot goes, the quirky romantic comedy could not
be further from the bloodsoaked world of Freddy Krueger and Elm
Street.


"When they said, 'We'd like something from the 20th
arrondissement, where there is a wonderful old cemetery'. I
thought 'Oh god, back to the cliche'," Craven said during a press
junket for "Paris Je T'Aime" in Beverly Hills.


"I was relieved when they said it didn't have to be scary."


Initially, Craven had wanted to set his story around the tomb of
former Doors front-man Jim Morrison. When permission was refused
he turned his attention to Edith Piaf, only to see authorities
turn down that request too.


"So we settled on Oscar Wilde. I wrote the script in no time to
all and it actually ended up being better than the first two,"
Craven said.


Craven said the light-hearted story, about a young couple
suffering doubts over the future of their relationship, was
partly inspired by his own experiences.


"Love can give you great hope," Craven said. "It can be rough. In
riding, if you fall from a horse, you get back on and start
again. In love if you fall, the horse jumps on top of you and
tramples you.


"But it's very hard to go through life without that spark of love
and romance, and it's very hard to go through life without
humor."


Craven meanwhile remains an outspoken critic of President George
W. Bush and the US-led invasion of Iraq, and bristles at
suggestions that horror movies are responsible for tragedies like
the Virginia Tech shootings.


"There's a part of me that sees red when people start pointing
the finger at film-makers," Craven said. "This is a very violent
world right now. And there's a tremendous amount of focus on this
violence with the war."

