

The leader of the US-arm of Sri Lanka's Tamil Tigers had been
arrested in New York for supporting "terror" activities on the
island, the US embassy in Colombo said in a statement Thursday.


Karunakaran Kandasamy, also known as Karuna and the main US
representative of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE),
was charged Wednesday in Queens, New York, and was scheduled to
be taken before a magistrate, the embassy said.


"The arrest is the latest in ongoing investigation of (the)
terrorist group's reliance on individuals in the US as a major
source for money, arms, and military technology," the statement
said.


If convicted, the man faces a maximum sentence of 15 years
imprisonment, the statement added.


It said the LTTE, designated a foreign terrorist organisation by
the US State Department since October 1997, has covertly operated
within the country "to further its war of terror in Sri Lanka and
elsewhere."


"We refuse to allow this to continue," the statement quoted US
attorney Roslynn R. Mauskopf as saying.


FBI investigator Mark J. Mershon said the suspect "hasn't merely
supported the Tamil Tigers' cause, he orchestrated US support."


"We can no sooner allow terrorists to raise funds here than we
would allow them to carry out acts of terrorism here," Mershon
was quoted as saying.


According to the complaint, the LTTE relies on sympathetic Tamil
expatriates residing in the US, Canada, Britain, Australia,
France, and several other countries to raise and launder money,
smuggle arms, explosives, equipment, and technology into LTTE-
controlled territory, obtain intelligence about the Sri Lankan
government and spread propaganda.


Eleven people were previously indicted in New York on charges
relating to the material support of the LTTE, the US embassy
said.


The charges include the procurement of military arms and
technology, attempting to bribe purported US State Department
officials to remove the LTTE from its terrorist list and to sell
classified intelligence concerning the LTTE, fundraising, and the
LTTE's covert payment of a US Congressman's trip to LTTE-
controlled territory.


The Tiger rebels controls large parts of Sri Lanka's embattled
north where they run a de facto separate state. More than 60,000
people have been killed in the LTTE's drawn out separatist
campaign since 1972.

