

The euro came within a whisker of a new all-time high against the
dollar Wednesday as traders shook off the latest upbeat economic
news from the United States and bet on weakness ahead.


After a peak of 1.3665 dollars in early trading Wednesday, the
European single currency was quoted at 2100 GMT at 1.3636 dollars
compared with 1.3640 late on Tuesday.


The euro has been hovering near its record of 1.3666 dollars hit
on December 30, 2004. It has gained some 3.5 percent against the
dollar since the start of the year and 15 percent since January
2006.


The dollar failed to gain traction from data showing a strong 3.4
percent monthly gain in durable goods orders, a positive sign for
manufacturing, or from news of a 2.6 percent rebound in new home
sales that provided some comfort to a slumping real estate market
after news of a sharp fall in existing home sales Tuesday.


The dollar's fortunes contrasted with that of the stock market,
which saw the blue-chip Dow Jones industrials hit an all-time
high and breach 13,000 for the first time.


"The extraordinary dichotomy between the currency market (which
is decidedly dour in its outlook on the US economy) and the stock
market (which is remarkably sanguine about US growth prospects)
continues unabated," said Boris Schlossberg, senior currency
analyst at Forex Capital Markets.


Some analysts say traders are anticipating Friday's report on US
gross domestic product to show a weak expansion pace in the first
quarter, with the consensus forecast calling for a tepid 1.8
percent growth rate.


"While the US continues to see weakness in the housing sector as
well as signs of other economic hiccups, the eurozone is seeing
the opposite," said Jon Gencher at BMO Capital Markets.


"The dollar corrections are far weaker than we expect and it
seems the euro is on the point of breaking its record," commented
analyst Phil Roberts at Barclays Capital.


The dollar stood at 118.72 yen, compared with 118.55 on Tuesday
and at 1.2044 Swiss francs from 1.2013. Sterling meanwhile traded
at 2.0014 dollars after 2.0023.


The strength of the euro has occured because investors are
attracted by the likely prospect of higher eurozone interest
rates, compared with the increased chances of lower rates in the
United States.


The euro was given a fresh boost on Wednesday by a stronger-than-
expected business survey in Germany, the eurozone's biggest
economy, which cemented expectations of further rises in European
interest rates.


"Germany's strong Ifo business confidence readings will be
latched onto by the ECB to justify higher rates ahead," said
analyst David Brown at Bear Stearns, adding that Germany "seems
to be undergoing a white hot change of economic positivism."


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
108.6 points in April from 107.7 points in March.


The increase put the index just one-tenth of a point away from
the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


"Overall, today's number is another piece of the jigsaw adding up
to a monetary tightening next month," said Daragh Maher, senior
forex strategist at Calyon.

