

Facing accusations that it invented war heroes from Afghanistan
and Iraq for propaganda purposes, the US military admitted
Wednesday it had made mistakes but said the media was also to
blame.


One of the soldiers at the center of the row and the brother of
another "hero" killed in Afghanistan on Tuesday accused the
military of peddling lies in both cases to rally a hero-starved
American public.


And while the military admitted mistakes in the case of American
football star Pat Tillman, killed by "friendly fire" in
Afghanistan in 2004, it said the media had blown up the case of
Jessica Lynch after her capture in Iraq in 2003.


Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said that the army had referred
Tillman's case to commanders for possible disciplinary action
against officers accused of hiding the true circumstances of his
death from his family.


"In the Tillmans' case, it was clearly misleading and inaccurate
information being provided by the department," he said.


The army first said that the former football star had died a
hero's death while fighting Taliban insurgents. Some weeks later
they admitted that he had been killed in a "friendly fire"
incident by fellow US troops.


Tillman gave up a lucrative professional footballing career after
the September 11 attacks of 2001 to join the army, and his death
immediately became a symbol of American sacrifice in the "war on
terror."


But Tillman's brother Kevin on Tuesday accused the army of lying
about his brother's death for propaganda purposes.


"It was utter fiction," he testified to Congress, accusing the
military of "deliberate and careful misrepresentations."


"A terrible tragedy that might have further undermined support
for the war in Iraq was transformed into an inspirational message
that served instead to support the nation's foreign policy wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan," he said.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Wednesday that President
George W. Bush felt "deeply sorry for the family and all that
they have gone through."


An internal Pentagon report last month found that nine officers,
including four generals, had committed serious errors in the way
Tillman's death was related to his family.


But only one officer, special forces commander General Philip
Kensinger, was accused of intentionally deceiving the family.


Acting Secretary of the Army Pete Geren said at the time that he
had asked General William Wallace to make recommendations within
30 days on what measures should be taken against the nine
officers.


Whitman said the Pentagon's investigations demonstrated "a strong
desire by the leadership to get to the facts and to ensure in
cases of this nature you don't repeat some of the same mistakes
that were made in this particular case."


But in the Lynch affair, Whitman accused the media of turning the
then 19-year- old soldier into a heroine after she was captured
by Iraqi forces during the US- led invasion of Iraq in 2003.


"What I recall specifically on that story was cautioning people
with respect to what the facts were in that and that there were
news media that were well in front of the facts that we knew," he
said.


Nevertheless, Lynch was held up as a symbol of courage. She said
Tuesday the Pentagon inaccurately portrayed her as a "little girl
Rambo," firing her weapon down to the last bullet before being
captured.


"It was not true ... I'm still confused as to why they choose to
lie and try to make me a legend," she told the Congress hearing.

