

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average share index closed at a
record high Wednesday, finishing above 13,000 points for the
first time as investors celebrated ballooning corporate profits.


The blue chip share gauge rocketed past the psychologically
important 13,000-point barrier in the wake of fat profit reports
from the likes of Boeing and PepsiCo.


The Dow ended up a strong 135.14 points (1.04 percent) at
13,089.08 just after the closing bell.


The Nasdaq composite surged 23.35 points (0.92 percent) to
2,547.89 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
finished up a hefty 14.80 points (1.00 percent) at a preliminary
close of 1,495.21.


"The Dow hit 13,000 ... and kept on going. Today's record-
shattering performance extended the best monthly rally on Wall
Street in more than three years," said Al Goldman, a chief market
strategist at AG Edwards.


Investors cheered better-than-expected earnings from corporate
America, but some market analysts warned that the stock market is
likely to experience a "correction," especially with some dark
clouds hovering over the economic outlook.


An initial reading of first-quarter US gross domestic product
(GDP) due for release Friday is widely-expected to show slowing
growth in the world's largest economy.


Investors appeared to largely brush off a Federal Reserve survey
Wednesday which highlighted a "modest or moderate" expansion of
the economy amid slumping home and auto sales.


An upbeat snapshot on durable goods orders, however, helped
support the day's heady share gains.


The Dow has rocketed higher in the past week as investors have
applauded a flow of strong profit reports from major
corporations, especially from the banking sector, and several big
mergers and acquisitions.


The good news for shareholders continued Wednesday as Boeing said
its  first- quarter profits soared 28 percent from a year ago to
877 million dollars as new aircraft orders boomed.


An acquisition binge by big private equity firms, including a
record 45-billion- dollar bid for Texas energy group TXU in late
February, has also stoked shares higher since the start of the
year.

