

US President George W. Bush is to welcome Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe Thursday to discuss North Korea, Tokyo's increasingly
bold global role and maybe even their passion for baseball.


During two days of meetings, the White House hopes the leaders
will build on a strategic relationship that grew under Abe's
predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi, one of Bush's closest
international allies and staunchest backers of the war in Iraq.


"We are like-minded democracies pursuing a common agenda and,
again, that transcends whether it's Prime Minister Koizumi or
Prime Minister Abe," said Dennis Wilder, the US National Security
Council's top East Asia hand.


"We see Japan as our greatest strategic partner in East Asia, and
an increasingly indispensable global partner," Wilder told
reporters Wednesday in a preview of Abe's first visit here since
taking office last year.


Wilder joked about one of the stickier trade issues the two
leaders were expected to discuss -- Japanese curbs on US beef
imports.


"If you ask my personal recommendation, I think obviously Prime
Minister Abe ought to have a steak dinner sometime while he's
here in Washington," quipped Wilder, who declined comment on the
official dinner fare.


Asked about a possible steak dinner, a senior Japanese official
briefing reporters on Abe's visit replied: "I'm sure Prime
Minister Abe would enjoy it."


On more serious matters, Wilder said Bush would reassure Abe
during their talks at the White House and the Camp David
presidential retreat about efforts to convince North Korea to
give up its nuclear weapons program.


Abe has said that he will press Bush on Japanese citizens
abducted by North Korea, amid worries in Tokyo that Washington
may remove Pyongyang from its list of terrorism sponsors before
the deeply emotional issue is resolved.


"We aren't going to de-link the abductee issue from the state
sponsor of terrorism issue," Wilder said.


Japan has refused to fund an international deal to supply North
Korea with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless
there is progress on the abduction issue.


Since 2003, Washington has tied the abductee issue to its
decision to list Pyongyang among the state sponsors of terrorism
and Bush has stood strongly with Japan in that dispute.


But "the US has said it wants to lift the sanctions on North
Korea for terrorism, and Abe wants to make sure that there won't
be a de-linking," said Mike Green, a former top Bush adviser on
Asia.


Bush, who famously took Koizumi to Elvis Presley's Graceland
mansion, also hopes the summit with Abe will "develop their
personal relationship further," said Wilder.


"One thing they do share is a love of baseball, and a great deal
of interest in Japan's most significant export to the United
States in the last year," said Wilder, referring to pitcher
Daisuke Matsuzaka of the Boston Red Sox.


Bush and Abe will also discuss Tokyo's increasingly bold global
role and may touch on World War II era disputes roiling Japan's
relations with its neighbors.


Wilder said such matters would not be central to the visit, but
cautioned that Tokyo still had work to do on easing tensions over
so-called "comfort women" driven into brothels by Japan's
military.


"Japan, as a modern democratic nation, needs to find a way to
place these issues behind it so it can move forward in
cooperation with its neighbors," he told reporters.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of so-
called "comfort women" into brothels across Asia.


The prime minister has since stressed he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor"
on the issue in a telephone conversation early this month,
according to the White House.


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of World War II defeat, including the
US-imposed pacifist constitution.


And he recently decided to extend by two years an air mission
flying goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended its
ground troop deployment last year.

