

The world's top 16 ice hockey teams are ready to rumble again at
the annual world ice hockey championships, which slide into
action here on Friday.


Reigning world champions Sweden, who also won the Euro Hockey
Tour this season, come into the event aiming to confirm their
status as the world's ice hockey superpower and win a second
consecutive world title for the first time.


Meanwhile a set of challengers are determined to throw down the
gauntlet and provide the Turin Olympic champions with tough
opposition.


Last year's runners-up the Czech Republic, bronze medallists
Finland, who clinched their only world title in 1995, and
traditional powerhouse Canada, who finished fourth last year, are
also ready to fight for the title.


This season's Euro Hockey Tour runners-up Russia, who are hosting
the championship, also dream of reclaiming the glory that
accompanied almost every display by the all-powerful Red Machine
before the fall of the Soviet Union.


Few of the European ice hockey giants have announced their final
line-ups, as they are still able to boost their squads with
players from sides eliminated in the first round of the NHL's
Stanley Cup.


The world's top 16 teams will start their quest for the title in
four preliminary round groups.


Sweden top Group A, which is based in Moscow. They are up against
Switzerland, Latvia and Italy.


Czech Republic head Group B, which is based in Mytishchi, a small
town just outside Moscow. They will play against the United
States, Belarus and Austria, who was promoted to the top division
last year.


Canada will fight it out with the 2002 world champions Slovakia,
as well as Norway and Germany, who also returned to the ice
hockey elite after last year's win in the lower division, for the
top place in Group C, also in Mytishchi.


Finland face Russia in Group D, also to be played in Moscow,
alongside Ukraine and Denmark.


The bottom teams in each group then go on to play in a separate
group to decide which two sides get relegated to the second tier
of world ice hockey.


The top three squads in each group proceed to the qualification
round, where the teams from groups A and D play-off against each
other and those from B and C do likewise to decide the eight
quarter-finalists.


The title winner will be decided in the final match on May 13 in
Moscow.

