

A fact-finding mission of the UN Security Council, which will
ultimately decide on Kosovo's future, meets Thursday with Serbian
leaders opposed to a contentious plan for the province's
independence.


The 15-member delegation was to assess progress made in Kosovo
since the Council adopted Resolution 1244, which put an end to
the 1998-1999 conflict in the province with an independence-
seeking ethnic Albanian majority.


Led by Belgium ambassador Johan Verbeke, the mission was due to
meet with Serbia's Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and
President Boris Tadic, before heading to Kosovo itself.


Kosovo has been under UN administration since mid-1999, after a
NATO bombing campaign forced Serbian forces out of the province,
ending their brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanians.


Serbia is staunchly opposed to UN special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari's recommendation to grant internationally supervised
independence to the province its people consider the cradle of
their nation's history, culture and religion.


It has won support from traditional ally Russia, which earlier
this week threatened to use its Security Council veto to block
any new resolution that does not satisfy Serbia.


Belgrade hopes the UN mission will recognise failures of Kosovo's
provincial ethnic Albanian authorities to provide safe conditions
for Serb and other minorities living in the province.


It is also expected to request further efforts to enable the
return of some 220,000 Serb and other non-Albanian refugees that
fled the province after the war fearing reprisal attacks by
Albanian extremists.


"The Security Council mission must answer these questions and ...
enable new negotiations that would solve the issue of return of
refugees," Kostunica said ahead of the mission's arrival late
Wednesday.


In a bid to emphasise the refugee plight, several organisations
representing displaced Serbs called on members to gather at the
administrative border between Kosovo and Serbia proper on
Thursday.


Russia, which proposed the fact-finding mission after Ahtisaari
presented the Council his plans last month, has backed Serbia in
its calls for a new round of negotiations between Belgrade and
Pristina.


The demands have been flatly rejected by Western countries,
namely the United States and European Union which have backed the
Ahtisaari proposal for Kosovo's self-governance.


Kosovo Albanian officials expect the Security Council mission
only to evaluate the situation on the ground in the province, and
to recommend support for Ahtisaari's plan.


"We will show them that an independent Kosovo is not a problem
for the United Nations, but their future and active member," said
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister, Agim Ceku.


The UN delegates are to travel to Kosovo late on Thursday for
talks with senior UN and local officials.


They are also expected to visit Serb-populated enclaves in the
province, as well as Serbian Orthodox medieval monasteries.


The UN Security Council is due to debate Ahtisaari's proposals
next month.

