

Australia skipper Ricky Ponting admitted that he can't wait for
Saturday to come when his all-conquering team take on Sri Lanka
in the World Cup final.


The Bridgetown title showdown will be two-time defending
champions Australia's fourth successive final appearance and they
will start as overwhelming favourites after beating South Africa
by seven wickets in the semi-final here on Wednesday.


"I'm looking forward to Saturday, it can't come round quickly
enough," said Ponting whose team have won all 10 matches at the
World Cup and have not lost a game in the tournment overall since
1999.


"It's a fantastic feeling to be in the final again. It's been a
great day."


South Africa were 27-5 at one stage after winning the toss as
Shaun Tait, with four wickets, and Glenn McGrath, with three,
dominated proceedings with Graeme Smith's men bowled out for 149.


"Full credit to the bowlers," said Ponting. "They executed
everything well."


McGrath, playing in his last World Cup, set another record when
he took his tournament haul to 25 wickets, the best ever
performance in a World Cup.


"It's coming out well," said McGrath who took 3-18.


"The breeze allowed me to swing the ball and I was lucky enough
to get a few edges.


"We have bowled every team out at the World Cup except Bangladesh
and that was a 22-over game. That's a great feeling to take into
the final.


"Tait, Bracken are bowling well and Brad Hogg is playing a big
part like he did at the last World Cup."


South Africa skipper Graeme Smith admitted his team had been
outplayed.


"The top order have been good in the tournament but today we had
problems. Their bowlers put us on the back foot and we couldn't
seize the initiative," he said.


"Australia were the better team today and congratulations to
them.


"It's been an up-and-down tournament for us but I can't doubt the
effort the players have out in. At times we haven't played our
best cricket.


"I know there will be a lot of disappointed people at home but I
hope that in four years' time we can pay them back for their
support."


Michael Clarke saw Australia home with an unbeaten 60 and paid
tribute to the team's bowlers.


"The bowlers did a fantastic job and if we keep bowling like that
I don't think we will have to chase too many runs," said Clarke.


"I feel like I am hitting the ball well and it's great to get
another 50 and reach another World Cup final. But my job has been
made a lot easier by the top order playing so well."

