

Oil prices edged higher in Asian trade Thursday after another
heavy fall in US gasoline (petrol) stockpiles, dealers said.


At 10:55 am (0255 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in June, was up six cents at 65.90
dollars a barrel from 65.84 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for June was up three cents at 68.60
dollars.


The US Department of Energy's (DoE) weekly energy report showed
gasoline reserves fell 2.8 million barrels in the week ending
April 20, against market forecasts of a fall of just 500,000
barrels.


It was the 11th consecutive weekly drop in gasoline reserves.


"Primarily the market is driven by concerns over the fall in US
gasoline inventories. Right now, it is really a gasoline-driven
market and ... the ongoing refinery problems have resulted in
continuing gasoline stock draws," said Victor Shum, senior
principal at Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


He cited Valero Energy Corp.'s St Charles refinery as one of the
outages that will hit gasoline production on the US Gulf coast.


"In the short-term, the crude oil market is likely to trade
sideways or up, with an overall bullish tone because of the
ongoing gasoline stock draws and refinery operating problems
raising concerns over gasoline supply," Shum said.


The market is closely watching stock levels ahead of the US
driving season, which begins in May, when many Americans hit the
highways for summer vacations.


The DoE said crude oil inventories increased 2.1 million barrels
last week, which confounded analysts' forecasts for a decrease of
1.5 million barrels.


The surprise gain in crude was "not going to get anywhere near
the attention that the gasoline figures will," said Citigroup
analyst Tim Evans.


Geopolitical issues in key producers Iran and Nigeria were also
continuing to support prices.


"In addition to robust demand for oil, uncertainty over Nigeria's
future and controversy surrounding Iran's nuclear enrichment
programme continue to support the market," Sucden analyst Michael
Davies


A broad opposition coalition on Wednesday urged Nigerians to take
to the streets peacefully next week to force the cancellation of
this month's elections which foreign and domestic monitors have
called flawed.


The elections have renewed concerns over Africa's biggest oil
producer, where crude output has already been slashed by around
one-quarter due to separatist unrest in the Niger Delta.


"Uncertainty in Nigerian politics will continue in the longer-
term," Shum said.

