

The Pentagon wants to close a domestic terrorism spying venture
that has drawn criticism for collecting information on peaceful
activists inside the United States, a spokesman said Wednesday.


The new undersecretary of defense for intelligence, James
Clapper, found disappointing results during a review of the
Pentagon's Threat and Local Observation Notice (TALON) database,
instituted in 2003.


Clapper "has assessed the results of the TALON program and does
not believe they merit continuing the program as currently
constituted, particularly in light of its image in Congress and
the media," spokesman Pat Ryder said.


Defense Secretary Robert Gates has not yet made a formal decision
to shut down the program, Ryder added.


The Pentagon admitted last year that a small portion of the
information collected in the database "either should have been
purged, or was data that was not appropriate for reporting in
that system."


The TALON program began in 2003 to track suspects with possible
links to terrorists as part of the United States' post-September
11, 2001 "war on terror."


Parts of the database leaked to news reporters have shown that
the Pentagon has been collecting information on peace activists
and monitoring anti-war protests across the country.


The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) last year filed several
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests seeking to uncover
which peace group is being spied on by the Pentagon and why.


The filing was on behalf of several national groups and seven
Florida-based peace activist groups, including Florida members of
the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), a Quaker
religious-based peace group.


"We found there were any number of things with respect to that
program where there were data that was maintained in a database
where they probably should have not been maintained there," said
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman.


"Everybody will agree there is a need to be able to monitor
report threats on US installations and against US military
personnel and how you go about that is I guess what the issue is
here."


Influential Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy said "there are ways
to protect defense facilities and military personnel without this
kind of overreaching" and saluted the Pentagon's will to put an
end to the program.


"Talon was another costly, controversial and poorly focused
venture that did not make us any safer," Leahy said.


"Without clear rules and close oversight, databases like this can
easily be abused to violate the public's constitutional and
privacy rights."

