

The National Football League's crackdown on off-field misbehavior
means teams will be scrutinizing character as never before in
choosing players in this weekend's NFL draft.


NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, dismayed by the negative
publicity generated by numerous players' run-ins with the law,
made a stricter code of conduct a priority.


Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam "PacMan" Jones, who has been
involved in 10 different incidents and arrested five times since
entering the league in 2005, became the posterboy for the new
policy when he was banned for the entire 2007 season without pay.


The NFL also banned the Cincinnati Bengals' Chris Henry for the
first eight games of next season.


In announcing the sanctions, Goodell admonished players and other
members of the league "to make the right choices and decisions in
their conduct on a consistent basis."


For club executives, those decisions might well start with the
draft.


"You know talented players help you win, but immature players can
help you lose," Kansas City Coach Herman Edwards said. "It's not
only young guys but veteran guys, too."


University of Miami safety Brandon Meriweather, who was a central
figure in an ugly brawl with Florida International last season,
is one of the talented players whose place in the draft could be
affected by the heightened focus on character.


So is California tailback Marshawn Lynch, arrested on domestic-
violence charges in December but not charged, and University of
Florida defensive tackle Marcus Thomas, booted from the team in
November because of positive drug tests.


Three more potential first-round picks came under the microscope
when it was reported that Georgia Tech wide receiver Calvin
Johnson, Clemson defensive end Gaines Adams and Louisville
defensive tackle Amobi Okoye admitted to trying marijuana while
in college.


"You gather information, you share information," Jacksonville
coach Jack Del Rio said. "I don't know that it's changed a whole
lot, other than there's more information being gathered."


Avoiding sanctions by the league, as well as embarrassment, is
not the only motivation for teams to choose players they think
will turn out to be good citizens.


"The teams that have been winning Super Bowls the last three,
four, five years have been clean off the field," says NFL Network
analyst Mike Mayock. "New England, Pittsburgh, Indianapolis -
they have drafted well and been clean and won."


In addition, rules in the new labor contract make it harder for
teams to recoup signing bonuses from players suspended for
violating polices against performance-enhancing and recreational
drugs.


"Everybody deserves a second chance," Miami Dolphins general
manager Randy Mueller said. "But when you're going to get
hammered on the personal-conduct policy and can't recoup any
signing bonus money, is the risk-reward really worth it?"

