

The largest wave of labour unrest to hit Egypt in the past half
century could be more than just the birth pangs of a liberalising
economy but also the mass movement needed to revitalise a
flagging opposition.


Starting in 2004 and then picking up speed two years later,
wildcat strikes have flared across the country, hitting
everything from small food-processing factories to the massive
state-owned textile firms.


"There are contradictory developments going on. On one level, you
can say that the tide is receding and the (opposition) movement
is subsiding," said Wael Khalil of Kefaya, a loosely organised
protest movement that appeared on the scene two years ago but has
since lost much of its momentum.


"At the same time, the level of discontent is higher than before,
and not only the workers," he said, noting that while Kefaya's
urban protests have been easily crushed, the government has been
quick to respond to workers' demands.


"The thing about the workers movement is how frightened the
government is -- it is really a demonstration of how a mass
movement can bring about change," he said.


For every single strike over the past few months, government
agencies have been quick to negotiate with the workers and grant
their demands, which have generally been for unpaid bonuses,
benefits and salaries.


"The government has the money to pay it because the price of oil
is high and they've sold off a bunch more public sector
enterprises," explained Joel Beinin, the head of the Middle East
Studies department at the American University in Cairo and a long
time observer of Egypt's labour scene.


"This is the biggest, longest strike wave at least since the fall
of 1951," he added. "Just in terms of the size of what we are
talking about, it is substantially different from what we've had
before."


In his writings, Beinin has described the strikes as "the most
substantial and broad-based kind of resistance to the regime."


In 2006 alone, the independent daily Al-Masri Al-Youm counted 222
instances of labour unrest, including a week-long strike at the
massive spinning and weaving complex at Mahalla al-Kobra north of
Cairo involving some 20,000 workers.


The trend has continued in 2007 with daily reports of strikes.


There are indications, however, that the government has become
fed up with these protests and sit-ins, and Labour Minister Aisha
Abdel Hadi has suggested that rabble rousers are behind the wave.


"This situation has gone on long enough -- we are working to
solve the problems of the workers, but there are those who want
to ignite a revolution," she said on television mid-April.


Government ire has recently focused on labour NGOs like the
Centre for Trade Union and Worker Studies (CTUWS), which they
have publicly accused of fomenting the strikes.


In April, the organisation's offices were closed down in the
southern town of Nag Hammadi, the northern industrial complex of
Mahalla, and on Wednesday police dragged activists out of their
headquarters in Cairo's gritty industrial suburb of Helwan.


"Closing the offices of a labour rights group won't end labour
unrest," said Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East Director of the
Human Rights Watch.


"The government should be upholding legal commitments to Egypt's
workers instead of seeking a scapegoat."


Activists of all stripes, as well as the people working with
CTUWS itself, argue they are only assisting disgruntled workers
but are not actively involved in anti-government political
activities.


"They accuse us of fomenting strikes, while all along our
position has been that this wave of strikes is as a result of the
rigging of the union elections," said CTUWS leader Kamal Abbas.


Union elections in November have been described by workers and
activists as rigged in favour of the pro-government union
leadership.


Significantly, as the country is gripped with its biggest wave of
labour unrest in half a century, the official federation of trade
unions is getting ready to celebrate its golden jubilee under the
slogan "we are with the president."


Egypt's main opposition movement, the Muslim Brotherhood, though
never strong in the labour movement, have also moved to support
the workers demands, with parliamentarians becoming involved in
local strikes and issuing statements of support for the CTUWS.


"I think we all support the needs and the requests of those
workers," said Brotherhood spokesman Issam al-Aryan.


There are hints that the trend-setting workers of Mahalla, from
whom much of the public sector work force takes its cue are
taking their protests to a more political level by calling for
the formation of an independent parallel trade union and have
been in touch with Kefaya activists.


"We really need to think how we can link to it because this is
activism 101, people start by protesting for a month's salary,
but from that strike, several activists will emerge that want
things to move further," said Khalil of Kefaya.

