

Canada will be singled out for praise over its costly
contribution to the war in Afghanistan when NATO foreign
ministers meet here, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said
Wednesday.


The Thursday meeting of NATO foreign ministers is being held two
days after the Canadian parliament defeated a bill to withdraw
troops from Afghanistan.


Rice said she would pull her Canadian counterpart, Peter MacKay,
aside to express appreciation for the work of the Canadian
military, which has lost 54 soldiers in Afghanistan since 2002.


"Canada has taken a number of casualties in this war and I'll
want to say to him how much the sacrifice of the Canadian people
is appreciated, and I'm sure that his NATO colleagues will want
to say the same," Rice told reporters on her way to Oslo.


Earlier this week, Canada's parliament rejected a motion that
would have blocked Prime Minister Stephen Harper's Conservative
government from extending Canada's military mission in
Afghanistan beyond February 2009.


The government has also been under fire over reports this week
that Afghan prisoners captured by Canadian forces faced possible
torture after being transferred to Afghan custody.


The resolution, proposed by the opposition Liberals, was voted
down 150 to 134.


The motion asked the government to dispel speculation that
Canada's combat mission could be extended beyond 2009, its
current mandate, and advise its NATO allies so they may prepare
for an orderly handover of duties.


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in the volatile Kandahar
region in southern Afghanistan, hunting down former Taliban
militants.


Since 2002, 54 soldiers and one senior diplomat have died in
attacks, accidents or roadside explosions.


Last year, Harper's Conservatives pushed through Parliament a
two-year extension of the mission to February 2009, with the
support of several Liberal MPs, but did not exclude the
possibility of a further commitment.


The Liberals now accuse Harper of having already made up his mind
to extend the mission, despite his public denials.


According to a poll Tuesday, 52 percent of Canadians support the
troop deployment in Afghanistan, but 63 percent also want their
soldiers to return home in 2009.


The Liberals this week called for Defence Minister Gordon
O'Connor's resignation for not immediately halting the practice
of transferring Afghan prisoners to Kabul after a Toronto
newspaper reported the torture allegations.


The Globe and Mail said Monday it had "uncovered a litany of
gruesome stories and a clear pattern of abuse by the Afghan
authorities who work closely with Canadian troops."

