

Phil Mickelson missed the Byron Nelson pro-am Wednesday, but
won't be booted out of the 6.3 million-dollar tournament that
starts on Thursday.


PGA Tour rules state that a player missing a pro-am is
automatically disqualified from the tournament except in the case
of "extenuating circumstances."


Mickelson had planned to make the one-hour flight from Little
Rock, Arkansas, on Tuesday night to be ready for his 7:00 am tee
time.


But severe thunderstorms forced the Dallas Love Field airport to
close and Mickelson spent the night in Arkansas, not arriving at
the course until after 11:00 am.


Mickelson told organizers he would play the afternoon pro-am
instead, but tour officials decided not to rearrange the
pairings.


Instead, Mickelson had lunch with the amateurs with whom he was
supposed to have played.


Some fellow players accused the PGA Tour of a double standard in
allowing Mickelson to play, recalling that South African Retief
Goosen was disqualified from the 2005 Nissan Open for missing his
pro-am tee time after oversleeping.


"Phil did everything physically possible to get here Tuesday
night, but was grounded in Little Rock due to circumstances
completely beyond his control," tour executive vice president
Henry Hughes said in a statement.


Eight-time PGA Tour winner Stuart Appleby of Australia said the
appropriate question was whether Mickelson had made every effort
to arrive in time for the pro-am.


"I'm sure a lot of players think it's a very dodgy decision,"
Appleby said.


"Each situation has to be looked at independently. If a player
makes a reasonable effort, he gets a pass. If he doesn't, he
should be disqualified. I don't care who you are.


"If the airport was open in the early hours this morning, what I
would say to my pilot is, 'I've got to be in Dallas at 5:30 am.
If it's open, call me and wake me up.'"


Mickelson is one of only two top-10 players in the tournament,
along with Fiji's Vijay Singh.


His appearance has been especially welcome in the absence of
Tiger Woods, whose decision to skip the tournament seven months
after the death of tournament namesake Byron Nelson disappointed
many.


Woods played here eight times in the previous 10 years, missing
the event in 2003 when it clashed with an overseas appearance,
and last year, when it fell just days before his father died.


Officials hoped Woods, who has made no secret that he does not
like the course, would return one more time to honor Nelson.


"The ultimate reason for players to play is they've got to feel
comfortable with the course, and they've got to feel like they
are going to be successful," Luke Donald said. "No disrespect to
Mr. Nelson. I'm sure they respect him as a person and someone
who's done a lot for golf, but if they feel they're not going to
be competitive or successful around a place, then they won't
come."

