

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice voiced optimism Wednesday
that European allies and Russia would ultimately accept a
controversial US plan to station anti-missile bases in eastern
Europe.


Rice, who arrived in Oslo late Wednesday for talks with her NATO
and Russian counterparts, told reporters accompanying her that
many of the concerns expressed by Russia and some Europeans about
the project reflected Cold War era fears that were no longer
relevant.


"We have to demystify some of the things that are being said
about it," Rice said of the proposal to station 10 non-explosive
missile interceptors in Poland and a tracking radar in the Czech
Republic.


The plan is due to feature prominently during a day of talks here
Thursday, among the 26 NATO allies and between NATO and Russia.


Moscow has angrily denounced the plan to base US anti-missile
systems in the two former Soviet satellites as a strategic threat
to Russia itself.


Washington says the system is designed to protect Europe from
ballistic missile strikes by states like Iran or North Korea.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates tried to assuage Russian
concerns during a visit to Moscow this week, when he renewed and
expanded US offers to cooperate actively with the Russians on
missile defence matters.


Russian leaders responded cooly, questioning the actual threat
posed by Iran and possible future changes that could redirect the
US system towards Russia.


While the governments of Poland and the Czech Republic largely
support the plan -- negotiations over details are continuing --
the public has been wary, with recent opinion polls showing most
people in both countries oppose the idea.


Rice said she was confident both the European public and the
Russians could be convinced the missile shield is in their
interests given the potential proliferation of ballistic missiles
and weapons of mass destruction.


"It's simply not possible that this could be considered a system
that could in any way threaten the Russian strategic deterrent.
It's just not capable of doing so," she said.


Rice said recent intensive efforts to explain the US plan to
allied governments in Europe had largely eased their concerns,
and that she expected the public to follow.


"Now that there's a better understanding at official levels ...
that we're talking about the defence of Europe and the defence of
the United States againt rogue threats, I think you'll start to
see that people want to be defended," she said.


"We're going to have to talk about the facts as well as talk
about people's perceptions of the system," she said.


"Why would you leave yourself defenceless to an Iranian or North
Korean missile?" she asked. "It simply doesn't make sense."


Rice also vowed to pursue an already months-long effort to
convince Russia that the program is not the kind of threat that
may have been posed by anti-ballistic missile systems that
targeted strategic Soviet forces in the Cold War era.


"There's probably still a bit of the perspective from the Cold
War when the nature of strategic relations was one in which some
believed that defences could be a part of a first strike/second
strike capability," she said.


"That's not the kind of system or the strategic environment
today, but perhaps there are echos that are a bit of a hangover
and we've got to get past it and look at the world as it is and
not as it was," she said, adding that the United States is "not
Russia's adversary any longer."


She also vowed to address Russian concerns "about what a possible
follow-on system might look like -- the so-called breakout
potential.


"We're prepared to talk to them about that too, because this is
against a very limited threat. That's what it's intended to be."

