

Flushed with their unexpected success in the first round of
France's election, supporters of centrist candidate Francois
Bayrou are now agonising over which way to vote on May 6:
Sarkozy, Royal -- or not at all.


Some 6.8 million people chose the head of the small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) on Sunday, and now find themselves
unexpectedly in the role of king-makers for May 6. But where to
place the crown?


"I find it impossible to make a decision," said Jacques
Lauvergeat, a 60-year- old company manager from the western Paris
suburbs. "How do you decide between cholera and the plague?"


Like many people Lauvergeat was drawn by Bayrou's promise to
represent a new style of politics -- "where one side does not
automatically demolish what the other has done" -- but now finds
himself equally repelled by right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and
Socialist Segolene Royal.


For Daniel Cayol, a representative of Bayrou's small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) in Paris's 14th arrondissement, it is
Royal who presents the bigger danger.


"Royal is incompetent in all those areas where a French president
needs to be competent. She manages to contradict herself between
the start of every sentence and the end. And she is also beholden
to people on the far-left who are opposed to everything I hold
dear," he said.


"It is out of the question for me to vote for an inept
chameleon."


Cayol said he will reluctantly vote for Sarkozy, head of the
ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP), and then hope for a
big score for Bayrou's party at legislative elections in June in
order to exert influence over a new government.


Bayrou's first round voters included many on the moderate right
disillusioned by Sarkozy, but also many Socialist supporters who
doubt Royal's presidential stature. Many of these are expected to
return to the Socialist fold, in order to keep out Sarkozy.


"The right is far too extreme, and Sarkozy is the epitome of the
worst aspects of power -- dark and manipulative. He scares me,"
said Gaelle Dirat, 28, who runs an essential oils shop on the Ile
Saint Louis in Paris.


"I do not think Segolene is a credible leader, but I am part of
the 'Anyone but Sarkozy' crowd. I will vote for her to block his
path," she said.


Frederick Coudray, a 39-year-old farmer from the Burgundy village
of Donzy, said he would not vote for Sarkozy, but might vote for
Royal. Or else he might abstain.


"I just don't like the guy. He's too authoritarian. I don't like
her much either, but with her I'm open to persuasion. A lot will
hinge on next week's debate," he said.


The pair go head to head on national television on Wednesday, in
a debate that should be the high-point of the second round
campaign.


Last Wednesday Bayrou refused to endorse either candidate,
describing them both as unfit to rule the country. But he
reserved his harshest words for Sarkozy -- who he said had a
"taste for intimidation and threat" -- and accepted an invitation
from Royal for a debate on economic policy.


How far Bayrou's own views might influence his voters is open to
question. Many chose him out of hostility to the two front-
runners rather than political loyalty.


"It is a terrible choice. Segolene wants to create 500,000 jobs
with state money -- it's like the Berlin wall was still here. But
Sarkozy scares me. I am tempted to spoil my vote and let them get
on with it," said Alexandre Broca, 36, who runs a delicatessen in
central Paris.

