

Jose Ramos-Horta's chances of winning a runoff vote in East
Timor's presidential election were boosted Thursday when a failed
but influential candidate backed the Nobel laureate.


Ramos-Horta and the nation's parliament chief will contest next
month's  runoff after they failed to win a majority in the April
9 election, East Timor's first since independence in 2002.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo finished third in the election with
19.18 percent of the vote as candidate for the opposition
Democrat Party.


Speaking to Democrat supporters in the capital Dili and flanked
by Ramos-Horta, Lasama said the Nobel laureate, as president,
would safeguard democracy, unite the people and promote human
rights.


"Therefore, I call on all PD (Democrat Party) activists to vote
for Ramos-Horta in the upcoming May 9 election," he told about
100 supporters.


"Yesterday (Wednesday) the PD leadership reached a decision, by
acclaim, to throw its support behind Ramos-Horta," he added.


Impoverished Timorese hope the runoff will pull them from a cycle
of violence and turmoil that has beset the country since it voted
for independence from Indonesian rule in 1999.


In the runoff, Ramos-Horta faces Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres,
parliament chairman and candidate for the ruling Fretilin party.


Fretilin has long been a force in this country of one million
people.


Ramos-Horta, the nation's current prime minister, thanked Lasama
and the party for their support.


"I am very thankful for the support of PD. Even though the party
was set up just a few years ago, it has already helped build the
country and help democracy and freedom in this country," Ramos-
Horta told the crowd.


In return for the support, Ramos-Horta has agreed to resume talks
with and call off a manhunt for fugitive rebel Alfredo Reinado,
blamed for his part in last year's unrest, Democrat Party
officials said.


Ramos-Horta has already clinched the backing of three other
candidates who bowed out after the April 9 round.


East Timor voted for independence in a UN-sponsored referendum in
1999, triggering an orgy of killing by pro-Jakarta militia before
independence was declared in 2002.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets for nearly a year
after gang violence left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 more
fleeing their homes.

