

LeBron James showed little ill-effects from a sore ankle, scoring
27 points to lead Cleveland to a 109-102 victory over Washington
in the National Basketball Association playoffs on Wednesday.


Drew Gooden added 24 points and 14 rebounds as the Cavaliers took
a 2-0 lead over the Wizards in their best-of-seven Eastern
Conference first-round clash.


James, a  three-time All-Star, rolled his ankle ankle when he
stepped on the foot of Washington center Etan Thomas in Sunday's
series opener.


Despite the injury, James still pulled down seven rebounds and
handed out seven assists as the Cavaliers pushed their winning
streak to six games dating to the regular season.


Gooden connected on 10-of-13 shots and made 4-of-5 free throws in
helping Cleveland dominate in rebounding 40-25.


It was just Gooden's eighth career double-double in the
postseason. He had one in last season's first-round series win
against the Wizards.


With only a three-point lead at halftime, the Cavs extended their
lead when Sasha Pavlovic's jumper sparked a 14-8 run to close out
the third period for a 75-63 advantage.


The Wizards made a 10-4 run in the fourth that included seven
straight points from Antawn Jamison to narrow the gap to 91-85 at
the 4:58 mark.


However, James and Gooden combined to score Cleveland's next six
points for a 97-89 cushion.


Jamison's 3-pointer from the corner kept things interesting,
making it 101-97 with 39 seconds left.


Antonio Daniels scored on a driving layup and Jarvis Hayes nailed
a shot from the arc as Washington pulled to 105-102 with 18
seconds remaining, but Larry Hughes made four free throws to seal
the win.


The series shifts to Washington on Saturday for game three.


But even a move to home court likely won't help the Wizards
overcome the injury absence of All-Stars Gilbert Arenas (knee)
and Caron Butler (broken hand).


Butler had his cast removed Monday, but Wizards coach Eddie
Jordan ruled out the forward until later in the postseason.


Jamison has tried to fill the void, finishing with 31 points and
10 boards for his second straight double-double.

