

Venezuela and Cuba sought Wednesday to ratchet up pressure on the
United States over the release of ex-CIA operative Luis Posada
Carriles, who Caracas convicted for the 1976 bombing a Cuban jet.


The two countries, which have called for his extradition to
Venezuela, asked the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee to quickly
review his release on bail by a Texas court ahead of his trial
May 11 for immigration fraud.


Venezuela also condemned the United States Wednesday at the
Organization of American States for releasing Posada Carriles,
who escaped Venezuela in 1985 after being imprisoned for the jet
bombing, which killed 73.


Cuba and Venezuela "denounce the complicity of the government of
the United States and its complete responsibility in freeing Luis
Posada Carriles," Venezuela's UN Ambassador Aura Mahuampi
Rodriguez and Cuba's envoy Rodrigo Malmierca said in a letter to
the head of the Counter-Terrorism Committee.


The two countries accused Washington of "flagrant violation" of
parts of the 2001 UN resolution 1371 on terrorism.


At the OAS, Venezuela's representative Nelson Pineda called for a
debate over the war on terror and the US's freeing of Posada
Carriles.


A long-time US-linked activist against Cuban President Fidel
Castro, Posada Carriles was convicted in Venezuela in 1976 of
masterminding the downing of the Cuban jet off Barbados, but then
escaped from prison in 1985.


He was later sentenced to jail in Panama in a bomb plot to
assassinate Castro in 2000, but was pardoned four years later. In
May 2005 he was detained by US immigration officials for entering
the United States illegally.


Since then US authorities have refused to extradite him to
Venezuela or Cuba, claiming he might be tortured there, while
Havana and Caracas say that Washington is harboring a known
terrorist.


The Cuban foreign ministry has called the US treatment of Posada
Carriles  "a smoke screen to grant him impunity for the serious
crime of terrorism."


At the OAS, US representative Margarita Riva rejected Venezuela's
argument, saying Caracas ignores "the efforts the US has made to
detain Mr Posada and our firm commitment in the fight against
terror. The US is not harboring Luis Posada Carriles," she said.

