

Globalization has been a force for good but environmental and
labor standards need stronger protection from unfettered trade,
according to a US survey of 18 countries released Thursday.


"It is clear that publics around the world support the growth of
trade," said Steven Kull, editor of WorldPublicOpinion.org, part
of the University of Maryland which organized the poll with the
Chicago Council on Global Affairs.


"But it is also clear that many are looking for ways to soften
its disruptive impact on the environment and jobs by including
environmental and labor standards in trade agreements," he said.


Support for such standards was particularly high in low-cost
economies like China and India, flouting the widespread belief
that their workers would prefer lax regulation to press home
their competitive advantage, the survey said.


"It is possible that the requirement of higher standards is
attractive because it generates outside pressure to improve
working conditions in their countries," it said.


Overall, pluralities in all of the countries plus the Palestinian
territories that were covered by the poll said globalization had
been "mostly good" for their economies and for living standards.


Dissent to that view was strongest in France, with 42 percent
believing that trade liberalization and economic integration had
been "mostly bad," and in the United States (35 percent).


The highest levels of support for globalization were found in
export-oriented economies such as China (87 percent), South Korea
(86 percent) and Israel (82 percent).


The findings could "strengthen the political will" for
liberalization in arenas like the World Trade Organization, said
Christopher Whitney, executive director for studies at the
Chicago Council on Global Affairs.


There were more misgivings, however, about the environment with
66 percent of French respondents and 49 percent of both American
and South Korean ones believing that trade harms the natural
world.


Strong majorities in China and India agreed that trade agreements
should include environmental protections.


Again, France led the way in expressing fears for trade's impact
on job security, followed by the United States.


The survey interviewed nearly 23,000 respondents in total, drawn
from Argentina, Armenia, Australia, China, France, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Poland,
Russia, South Korea, Thailand, Ukraine and the United States,
plus the Palestinian territories.

