

China is taking risks as it plunges into some of the world's hot
spots looking for natural resources, but observers say the Asian
giant's presence in those places looks set to expand.


Tuesday's attack on a Chinese-run oil field in Ethiopia that left
77 people dead caused national outrage back home and concern for
other compatriots in dangerous places, but there was no sense
that China should withdraw.


"There is no way we would stay away from Africa due to the fear
of risk," a spokesman for Sinopec, the state-run company that ran
the Ethiopian oil field, said in remarks splashed on the front
page of the China Daily newspaper.


"This is not a game for us. We will try to improve security in
the future but there is no way we will withdraw from our projects
there."


Nine Chinese workers were among the 77 people killed in
Ethiopia's remote eastern Ogaden region, while another seven were
kidnapped and remain missing, with separatist rebels claiming
responsibility for the attack.


In the past three years, dozens of Chinese workers, engineers and
other civilians have been killed or kidnapped in strife-torn
regions of Nigeria, Kenya, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and
elsewhere.


Even in areas with no major uprisings they have faced open
hostility, such as in Zambia where Chinese President Hu Jintao
was forced to cancel some public appearances during a visit in
February because of planned protests.


Zambians reportedly wanted to vent their anger over the
exploitation of local workers by Chinese firms and the plunder of
the country's mineral resources.


Beijing also has been stung by criticism of its dealings with
international pariah, but resource-rich, countries such as Sudan,
Zimbabwe and Myanmar.


These developments will serve as an awakening for a country which
has long considered itself on the side of the "little guy" around
the globe, according to Denny Roy, a China specialist at the
Asia-Pacific Centre for Security Studies in Honolulu.


"As China shifts from a regional to a global power, they are
going to start realising the benefits and costs of that, and one
of those is that it makes you a target," Roy said.


"The people targeted in Ethiopia were seen as powerful outside
investors defying a particular group's ban on doing this type of
business in their country. It might be a bit of a shock for some
Chinese to be in that position now."


Nevertheless, Chinese experts and the government-run media all
gave the impression on Thursday that China would maintain its
strategy of going anywhere in the world for natural resources.


"The (Ethiopia attack) will not affect the cooperation between
China and Africa, that's for sure," Wang Hongyi, a researcher
with the China Institute of International Studies, told AFP.


However, he warned Beijing would need to use more of its growing
leverage abroad to ensure its citizen's safety, reflecting a
growing awareness in China that its workers overseas needed to be
better protected.


"I think China will adopt measures to deal with such issues in
the future; to strengthen communications with other governments
for the security of Chinese citizens."


In an editorial Thursday, the China Daily noted China's foreign
ministry had recently set up a new department to address growing
security threats for Chinese overseas and said its work should be
a high priority.


"As Chinese citizens move throughout the world, they are
increasingly vulnerable. An affective system to minimise risks is
essential," the paper said.


About one million Chinese nationals work or study abroad, with
7,000 companies from China investing overseas, according to state
media.

