

New Zealand hiked interest rates for the second time in less than
two months Thursday, raising them 25 basis points to 7.75 percent
as it wrestles to keep inflation under control.


The latest rise in the official cash rate is aimed at ensuring
"inflation outcomes remain consistent with achieving the target
of 1.0-3.0 percent inflation on average over the medium-term,"
the central bank said in a statement.


It followed a similar 25 basis points increase in early March and
gives New Zealanda one of the highest interest rate levels in the
developed world.


The move was expected to put further upward pressure on the
dollar and consequently on exporters' margins.


"Recent indicators confirm that the resurgence in economic
activity that began in late 2006 has continued over recent
months, with domestic demand continuing to expand strongly," the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand bank said.


"Demand is being fuelled by a buoyant housing market, increases
in government expenditure, rising terms of trade, ongoing net
immigration and a robust labour market."


While interest rates are being used to try to slow domestic
demand, particularly in the housing market, they are also helping
push up the New Zealand dollar, making life ever harder for
exporters.


Latest inflation figures showed the Consumer Price Index rose
just 2.5 percent in the year through March but there was a 4.1
percent rise in the domestic sector where the impact of overseas
competition is not felt.


Real estate industry data showed median house prices were up
around 14 percent in March from a year earlier.


Some economists had felt the central bank could afford to leave
rates alone following rises in home lending rates that had
effectively delivered a tightening of monetary policy, along with
the sharp rise in the local dollar.


The central bank statement described the New Zealand dollar
exchange rates as "exceptional by historical standards" and
"unjustified on the basis of medium- term fundamentals".


Last week, the dollar nudged 75 US cents and sat at 74.25 US
cents immediately after the rate announcement Thursday.


While parts of the export sector faced challenging conditions, a
recent sharp increase in world dairy prices was expected to
provide a boost to incomes in that sector and tourist arrivals
were continuing to grow, the bank said.


The rise in the trade-weighted exchange rate was expected to
exert some downward pressure on medium-term inflation, it added.

