

The ACT Brumbies are tugging on the heartstrings in an emotional
build up to their vital Super 14 rugby match with the Canterbury
Crusaders on Saturday as the competition nears its climax.


In contrast, the Auckland Blues have found no room for sentiment
in their crucial clash with the Northern Bulls in the battle for
the four play-off positions with two rounds remaining.


The Coastal Sharks, Waikato Chiefs are also in the mix, while the
Western Force, Otago Highlanders and Wellington Hurricanes
maintain remote outside chances.


The Brumbies, who lie in sixth place but only one point from
fourth, have the toughest assignment hosting the table-topping
Crusaders.


They need to win to stay in the race and to boost that incentive
they have the added emotional element of farewelling three
players -- George Gregan, Stephen Larkham and Jeremy Paul -- who
are playing their last home game.


"It's a pretty significant night for those three guys," said
Brumbies captain Stirling Mortlock, paying homage to a trio who
have contributed significantly to the Brumbies and Australian
rugby.


"We realise the best we can do is to focus on our preparation,
execute our game plan and send these guys away from Canberra
Stadium winners."


It is an intense atmosphere not lost on Crusaders loose forward
Reuben Thorne.


"There's going to be a lot of emotion, particularly in the
crowd," he said. "The Brumbies will feed off that so certainly
it's going to make it difficult for us."


Meanwhile, the second-placed Blues and fourth-placed Bulls have
taken contrasting approaches to their key clash on Friday.


Blues coach David Nucifora has responded to his side's back-to-
back losses by making sweeping changes which include dropping All
Blacks winger Joe Rokocoko completely and relegating lock Ali
Williams to the bench.


Victory for the Blues at Loftus Versfeld would strengthen their
claims for a home semi-final, while a Bulls win would open the
door for the Sharks to move up to second and bolster South
Africa's hopes for two sides in the play-offs.


The Bulls have selected the same side that has beaten the Lions
and Stormers over the past two weeks despite nagging injuries to
Victor Matfield, Bakkies Botha and Derick Hougaard.


The Waikato Chiefs, who lie equal on points with the Bulls, will
have the advantage of knowing the result of the Blues-Bulls match
before taking the field against the New South Wales Waratahs in
Sydney on Saturday.


It will be the first match of the year for fullback Mils Muliaina
who has been rushed into the side after recovering from a
fractured foot, injured after being sidelined for the first half
of the season by the All Blacks conditioning programme.


The Sharks have to pick themselves up from last week's 27-35 loss
to the Chiefs and recover from the lengthy return flight from New
Zealand as face the Golden Lions.


In Perth, the Western Force meet the Cheetahs with both sides
desperate to end a losing streak.


The Force need their first win in four matches to keep the top
four in their sights, while the Cheetahs, who have lost their
last four games, are looking for a victorious send-off for
veteran Springbok prop Ollie le Roux who is playing his last
match abroad.


In a New Zealand derby, the eighth and ninth-placed Otago
Highlanders and Wellington Hurricanes battle to avoid being the
worst performing New Zealand side.


In the remaining match of the weekend, the Western Stormers
should back up their win against the Blues last weekend, when
they play bottom-of-the-table Queensland Reds.

