

It's been compared to a "salon," a venue where artistic minds can
bubble over in creative ferment. But the tip-off is the grey
heads, the octogenarian shuffle, the accouterments of old age.


A stone's throw from the village of Laren east of Amsterdam, the
Rosa Spier retirement home sits amid greenery and gardens full of
cherry blossoms now in full bloom.


Old age does not stop art and this original household offers
aging artists a safe and serene environment in which to keep
working, free from the day-to-day worries of running a household.


"It's one of the last real salons in the sense of a meeting place
for artists and intellectuals," said Marijke Biegel-Straeter, 78.
Failing vision and a bad fall sped up this former gallery owner's
retirement.


Opened in 1969, the home was the brainchild of the late harpist
Rosa Spier and financed by her wealthy, art-loving friend
Henriette Polak. The women dreamed of a place where visual and
performing artists could keep creating unhindered, even in their
final years.


"Theme" retirement homes are not unheard of in the Dutch welfare
state, which helps subsidise the cost of accommodation but only
when it becomes impossible for seniors to live alone.


Single religion homes exist, as do some for elderly freemasons,
former seamen and even ageing junkies or old-age vegetarians. But
Rosa Spier is the sole 'art' home recognized and partly funded by
the Dutch state.


For people like Biegel-Straeter, it is a boon. Surrounded by
neighbours who are painters, sculptors, musicians, writers and
actors, the one-time gallery owner carries on a rich intellectual
life.


Like most living here, she has an elegantly furnished two-room
apartment with a small kitchen overlooking the garden. Some
residents also have a studio or a music room where they work,
complete with bohemian look.


The time passes quickly with concerts, exhibitions and lectures
organized on the grounds. On a recent visit, the calm in this
haven was broken by dazzling arpeggios from the concert hall and
lively debate by pensioners in the cafe on the grounds.


"Sometimes it is too much," Biegel-Straeter smiled.


"Last year 17 of us (residents) died. That is also part of life,"
she said.


The lively septuagenarian has very clear ideas about her own
death. She calmly explains that she knows her wishes will be
respected at the Rosa Spier house.


"The thing I appreciate most about this place is that freedom,"
she said.


Actress Fiet Fokkema-Dekker, 85, is also frank about her
approaching end.


"I came here to die but that does not weigh heavily on me," she
said.


She praises the service and the food. Sometimes she misses the
liveliness of the Amsterdam city centre but she appreciates the
beautiful surroundings of the retirement home.


"It is a privilege to be here," Dekker said.


Despite retirement after 30 years in theatre, the former actress
still puts on a show from time to time for the other residents
but says her new passion is poetry.


"Being an artist does not stop because of old age. Here our
residents continue to meet other artists, they talk about their
work, they are examples for each other," said the home's manager
Betty Wassenaar.


Places are scarce in Rosa Spier house, whose most famous resident
to date was the late Dutch graphic artist M.C. Escher, known for
his mathematical woodcarvings and never-ending geometric
patterns.


"We have 73 apartments and a very long waiting list."


Prospective residents must submit a curriculum vitae to a
commission which ultimately decides.


With the restrictions on state funding for the elderly, the Rosa
Spier House is planning to construct a new building with larger,
so-called service apartments to rent to "younger" artists in
better health.


The plan is a partial privatization designed to reduce the
average age of residents, now 84, and further develop the site as
a center for cultural exchange with the outside world -- the
intention of its founders, the manager said.


The home already holds concerts and exhibitions in a specially
designed space in the entrance hall.


"We only show the works of our residents here once a year. The
idea is that we especially want to show artists who are not
residents here in order to attract new visitors," Wassenaar said.

