

Germany's government and business leaders are confident that its
booming economy can resist the strong euro despite the
detrimental impact it has on exports.


The single European currency soared to 1.3682 dollars in
afternoon trading in London Friday, easily beating its previous
record, 1.3666, reached on December 30, 2004.


The biggest economy in the eurozone is in rude health, underlined
on Wednesday when Economy Minister Michael Glos raised the
economic growth forecast for 2007 to 2.3 percent -- a sharp rise
on the previous prediction of 1.7 percent.


Furthermore, Germany is predicting that growth will hit 2.4
percent next year.


That will have the effect of reducing Germany's jobless by more
than one million by the end of 2008, cutting the jobless total to
under 3.5 million, its lowest level for a decade.


Glos said on Wednesday that the present level of the euro was
"sustainable," although he admitted that a further increase could
threaten exports, making them more expensive and less competitive
on world markets -- a concern for Germany, which is the world's
biggest exporter.


"If it (the euro) were to rise still more strongly, there would
be risks," Glos said.


However, after shrugging off a value-added-tax rise of three
percent this year, optimism in the German economy appears to be
well-placed.


Bank of America's chief economist for Europe, Holger Schmieding,
told AFP on Friday after the euro reached its new record:
"Germany has already said that it is not worried about the
strength of the euro.


"Germany is trading with Asia, eastern Europe and the oil
countries which are all less sensitive to fluctuations in the
euro.


"And another factor is that German corporations have recently
slashed costs so they can cope with the strong euro.


"Another offsetting factor for other countries is that Germany is
buying again. The revival of German demand is very important.


"However if we go higher, if the euro goes above 1.40 for
instance, it could be a much hotter prospect."


German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck was unruffled, saying
last week that the strength of the euro "is not a concern for us
at the moment."


"German exports are less sensitive to variations than exports
from other countries, such as France," he said.


Germany's strength in producing goods such as machine tools,
heavily in demand in Asia, eastern Europe and the Gulf states,
stands it in good stead.


"Germany is profiting from the extraordinary international
investment boom, which due to Germany's specialisation is having
a stronger cyclical impact than in the other major European
countries," said Hans-Werner Sinn, the president of the Ifo
economic institute.


Analysts believe that German growth will continue in the months
to come.


"After exports, growth spread into investments and now into the
labour market," said Andreas Scheuerle of Dekabank.


He said it could now be the turn of consumer spending -- which
has long been Germany's weak spot -- to catch alight.

