

Two people were killed and 10 seriously wounded when armed men
fired on a convoy of political candidates in the northern
Philippines, police said Friday.


The ambush near the town of Jaen was the worst outbreak of
violence in the run- up to the May 14 mid-term elections which
has already claimed at least 20 lives.


The convoy, carrying political allies and sons of former mayor
Antonio Esquivel, was fired upon late Thursday, resulting in the
death of a town council candidate and a police escort.


Ten other people were wounded, including three police escorts and
Esquivel's two sons, Mark Lawrence and Mark Anthony, who
underwent surgery for bullet wounds to the head, a police report
said.


Benjamin Abalos, head of the government poll watchdog agency
Commission on Elections (Comelec), said he was considering
putting areas of Nueva Ecija province under his direct control
ahead of the vote, which would allow him to order the military in
to restore order.


"I am seriously considering placing the third and fourth district
of Nueva Ecija under Comelec control," Abalos told reporters.


He said he would visit the province Saturday to assess the
situation and ask the police and the military on what could best
be done to prevent more killings.


National police chief Oscar Calderon said he had ordered all
police units who were in the area of the ambush to undergo tests
for gunpowder residue to determine if anyone was involved in the
shooting.


He stressed that he had previously urged Abalos to place Nueva
Ecija under Comelec control.


The Esquivels immediately blamed a political rival for the
attack, saying their group had been ambushed as it returned from
a village meeting.


Elections in the Philippines are often marred by violence as
rival groups use force to intimidate voters or political
opponents.


There were 148 deaths recorded during the presidential elections
in 2004 and 111 deaths linked to the mid-term elections in 2001.


Next month some 45 million voters will elect half the 24-seat
Senate, 253 congressmen, and more than 18,000 local, district and
provincial officials.

