

Taliban violence erupted across Afghanistan Friday with rebels
killing a district governor and police chief and dozens of
militants attacking NATO troops


The administration and police chiefs of Giro district in the
volatile eastern province of Ghazni were killed with three police
guards when they were ambushed by scores of Taliban late
Thursday, the provincial governor said.


Ghazni governor Mirajudin Pattan rejected a Taliban statement
that the rebels had captured the district, saying the ambush was
not even in the centre of Giro and occurred while the men were
travelling elsewhere.


"On the way they were ambushed by a reported number of 100 to 150
Taliban, sparking a battle. The governor, police chief and three
police guards were killed.


"There were definitely Taliban casualties but we cannot give you
an exact number," he said.


"This is just Taliban propaganda that they have taken control of
the district. This not true."


A police official said earlier an emergency meeting was called to
appoint a new district chief and police chief and send in fresh
forces.


The Taliban have briefly captured several districts in a campaign
that has steadily gained intensity since it was launched after
the ultra-conservative movement was booted from government in
late 2001.


But Afghan authorities and their allies in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) say they rebels
are easily driven out of the areas they occupy -- all of which
have been remote and under-policed.


Early Friday meanwhile about 50 Taliban fighters attacked ISAF
soldiers in the western province of Herat, sparking a three-hour
gun battle, Shindand district governor Khudaidad Arfani said.


ISAF war planes retaliated. "NATO air strikes on the Taliban
killed at least one Taliban and five other people whose identity
is not confirmed have been wounded and taken to hospital," he
said.


Separately a detective and his brother were gunned down in the
eastern province of Khost on Friday and four policemen and six
militants were killed in a battle Wednesday in Uruzgan in the
south, officials said.


A Taliban spokesman said meanwhile the movement wanted a response
by Saturday to its demands for the release of two French
nationals and three Afghan captured three weeks ago.


The demands include that France pull out its 1,000 troops serving
with ISAF and that Kabul release Taliban prisoners, as it did for
the release last month of an Italian journalist whose Afghan
driver and translator were beheaded.


Amid concerns for the safety of the five, French Foreign Minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy said in Paris that his country did not plan
to stay in Afghanistan "long-term."


In a videotape message broadcast a week ago, the hostages said
they feared for their lives and urged the French government to
give in to the kidnappers' demands.


The Taliban insurgency, which makes heavy use of suicide and
roadside bombings, was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 1,000 people have lost their lives to the violence this
year, according to an AFP tally, with the security forces and
militants stepping up their campaigns in a bitter battle that is
wearing down a population that has suffered around three decades
of war.

