

Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya is to visit Switzerland
in May, the first official trip to Europe by the widely boycotted
Islamist premier, a Palestinian source said on Friday.


"Prime minister Ismail Haniya will travel to Switzerland in May,"
a foreign ministry source told AFP, adding that the exact date
had yet to be decided.


"This visit follows an agreement between Palestinian foreign
minister Ziad Abu Amr and the Swiss President Micheline Calmy-
Rey," the source said.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, from Hamas' secular rival
Fatah, this week wound up a European tour aimed at convincing the
European Union to lift its sanctions against the Hamas-led
Palestinian government.


Hamas is classified as a terrorist organisation by the European
Union and the United States. Switzerland is not a member of the
EU.


The diplomatic moves come after Hamas and Fatah last month formed
a unity government with the express aim of ending the Western
boycott as well as lethal infighting.


Calmy-Rey's predecessor Moritz Leuenberger said last year that
the EU had been too hasty in deciding to suspend aid to the
Palestinian government.


"It would have been wiser to give Hamas a trial period and judge
it according to its acts," Leuenberger told Al-Jazeera television
in April 2006.


Israel has in the past prevented members of the Hamas-led
government from leaving the occupied West Bank to travel abroad,
but Haniya resides in the Gaza Strip which has a border with
Egypt.


During his European tour, Abbas warned the EU that the lack of
funds caused by the bloc's year-long suspension of direct aid
would encourage extremism.


"We call upon the European Union to lift the embargo imposed on
our people, whose continuation will only succeed in encouraging
extremism," Abbas said in Athens. "The Palestinian people must be
assisted to live a normal life."


The European Union was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian
government until Hamas came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the EU, the United
States, the United Nations and Russia -- then suspended direct
aid to the Palestinian Authority.


Hamas' armed wing on Tuesday said it had ended a five-month truce
with Israel in response to raids that killed nine Palestinians.
However, Abbas described the end of the truce as a "rupture that
won't last."

