

The euro soared to records against the dollar and the yen Friday,
drawing strength from a resurgent eurozone economy and heralding
mixed blessings for European consumers and exporters.


While the single European currency had flirted with a dollar
record on several occasions earlier in the week, it was a report
from Washington on sluggish US growth that drove the euro to its
all-time high in mid-afternoon London trade.


Within seconds of an announcement that the US economy in the
first quarter expanded at its slowest pace in four years, the
euro jumped to 1.3682 dollars, easily smashing its previous
record of 1.3666, reached on December 30, 2004.


Soon afterwards the euro hit 163.16 yen, its highest ever
reading, on weak Japanese inflation data that raised doubts about
when the Bank of Japan would next raise interest rates.


In later European trading, the euro fell back to 1.3625 dollars
and 162.94 yen.


The surge in the euro against the dollar reflects sharply
contrasting macroeconomic circumstances on either side of the
Atlantic and their impact on interest rates, and thereby the
attractiveness of the two currencies.


The 13-nation eurozone recorded growth of 2.7 percent in 2006,
its best showing for seven years, and -- for the first time since
2001 -- is expected to outstrip the United States in 2007.


The IMF foresees the eurozone growing 2.3 percent this year
against 2.2 percent for the United States.


As the eurozone takes flight, the US economy, hobbled by falling
export earnings and a downturn in the housing market, is
foundering, having expanded just 1.3 percent in the first
quarter.


"Economic news in the US is not getting any better and more
worryingly continues to disappoint already low market
expectations," said Mitul Kotecha, an analyst with Calyon in
London.


As a result, the US Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank,
is now expected to ease monetary policy and to lower interest
rates -- currently at 5.25 percent -- to stimulate growth.


The interest rate trend in the fast-growing eurozone is moving in
the other direction, with the European Central Bank predicted to
raise its benchmark rate from 3.75 to 4.0 percent in June, making
the euro even more inviting to investors and boosting its value.


The robust health of the euro in relation to the yen is also a
function of interest rate differentials.


Powering the euro on Friday was a decision by the Bank of Japan
to leave its key lending rate unchanged at just 0.50 percent, as
well as predictions from analysts that Japan's monetary stance
would remain unchanged until after legislative elections in July.


The steady appreciation of the euro should be boon to eurozone
consumers, who are likely to see their purchasing power enhanced,
as well as a potential burden to exporters trying to compete on
the world stage.


A strong euro tends to hold down the price of imported goods,
notably of oil and gas imports denominated in dollars, but also
of consumer items such as Chinese T-shirts and Asian electronic
goods.


Eurozone businesses also benefit from lower prices for essential
materials bought outside the zone.


In addition, a strong currency, by making imports cheaper, helps
tame inflation and  -- in principle -- should hold down long-term
interest rates.


But at the same time a strengthening euro would make eurozone
products more expensive and less competitive on overseas markets
and as such could threaten the bloc's nascent economic rebound.


"A strong currency is a factor that ultimately restrains economic
growth," said analyst Holger Schmieding of Bank of America.


"But some of what you lose in exports you get back in (cheaper)
imports."


Economists have pointed out that despite a more than 10-percent
rise in the euro in the past year, Germany has remained a leading
exporting nation while Belgium, Ireland and the Netherlands are
all enjoying trade surpluses.


German Finance Minister Michael Glos on Friday stressed that the
new euro records were "not yet a cause for worry."


"German industry can well live" with the current level of the
euro, he said.


But Schmieding warned that "if we go higher, above 1.40 for
instance, it could be a much hotter prospect."


"Germany is trading with Asia, eastern Europe and the oil
countries which are all less sensitive to fluctuations in the
euro.


"And another factor is that German corporations have recently
slashed costs so they can cope."

