

The Russian cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, who has died aged 80,
was not only a consummate musician but also a great inspirer of
talent, notably among composers who wrote works both for and with
him.


"As soon as I realised that I myself had no real talent for
composing... the coming together of creator and a performer in
the gestation of a piece of music became my passion," he told a
French magazine in 2001.


The coming together was to begin when "Slava", as his friends
called Rostropovich, was a student at the Moscow Conservatory in
the mid 1940s.


For his orchestration class, run by the composer Dmitry
Shostakovich (1906-75), the young student handed in a piano
concerto he had written in the Russian tradition.


Rostropovich soon realised that his piece was heavily influenced
by both Shostakovich and another towering figure of the time,
Sergei Prokofiev (1891-1953).


Rostropovich concluded that if he himself were to pursue
composing, "I would be doomed to repeat the recipes of those two
masters," he said.


Instead he resolved to engage in teamwork with composers as much
as possible. The result was over 70 cello sonatas and concertos
that were either created for or inspired by Rostropovich.


An intense creative relationship with Prokofiev, who the younger
man described as his "idol", resulted in a stream of works,
including a jointly composed sonata for cello and piano in 1950.


Two years later Rostropovich performed one of his mentor's last
pieces, the sinfonia concertante in E minor, which Prokofiev
dedicated to him and which was conducted by the pianist
Sviatoslav Richter.


Prokofiev was to die the following year -- on March 5, 1953, the
same day as the Soviet dictator Josef Stalin.


After his teacher's death, Rostropovich helped complete several
works that the great composer had left unfinished. One of them, a
"concertino", was completed by Dimitry Kabalevski and first
performed in 1960.


Rostropovich's other great Russian influence, Shostakovich, was
to dedicate his two cello concertos to him, in 1959 and 1966. He
also reorchestrated for Rostropovich a cello concerto by the
19th-century romantic composer Robert Schumann.


The cellist's first forays onto the international music scene, in
the 1960s, opened up other horizons.


The English composer Benjamin Britten and his partner, the tenor
singer Peter Pears, became very close to Rostropovich and his
opera singer wife, Galina Vishnevskaya. Britten was to write six
pieces of music for Rostropovich.


During his years of exile from the Soviet Union, between 1974 and
the early 1990s, Rostropovich formed fruitful musical relations
with a host of other composers.


They included Arthur Bliss and William Walton in Britain, Henri
Dutilleux, Andre Jolivet and Maurice Ohana in France, Lukas Foss
in the United States, and Witold Lutoslawski and Krzysztof
Penderecki in Poland. One of the latter's pieces is entitled
simply "Per Slava".


Rostropovich also kept up a lively relationship with younger
Russian composers, including Rodion Shchedrin and Alfred
Schnittke, from whom he commissioned works which he then
conducted.


The cellist's fame as a potential performer of new works was such
that Rostropovich's mailbag overflowed with proposals throughout
most of his life.


However although many felt the calling to write for him, there
were only a few composers who Rostropovich himself would go out
of his way to seek work from.


One such was the Frenchman Olivier Messiaen, of whom Rostropovich
once said that he would "give a lot of money for just one page."
Messiaen eventually obliged, with a "concerto for four" musicians
-- one of whom was Rostropovich -- produced just before his death
in 1992.

