

Three suspected members of armed Basque separatist group ETA have
been arrested in Britain, the Spanish interior ministry said on
Friday.


The minstry said the trio were picked up in the central northern
city of Sheffield in a sweep which resulted from "the first
specific anti-ETA operation undertaken in Great Britain."


A judicial source told AFP the three, two men and a woman, were
preparing to set up a cell in the northern Spanish region of
Cantabria, adjacent to the Basque region.


The three were named as Zigar Ruiz Jaso, 28, suspected of a
February 2006 attack in the Basque region, and 23-year-old Inigo
Maria Albisu Hernandez and Ana Isabel Lopez Monge, 36.


Cadena Ser radio quoted unnamed anti-terrorist officials as
saying the three had been collating information on politicians in
Cantabria with a view to potential attacks, but the ministry said
they had not had information on targets in their possession.


The ministry said the trio were picked up at the behest of top
judge Baltasar Garzon. First deputy prime minister Maria Teresa
Fernandez de la Vega praised police for carrying out an
"operation with collaboration of France and the British judicial
authorities."


She added the arrests followed a month's surveillance designed to
thwart the creation of a new ETA cell along the lines of one held
responsible for 24 attacks between 2004 and 2006.


That surveillance has brought a dozen arrests and the impounding
of some 170 kilos (375 pounds) of explosives.


ETA, blamed for 819 deaths in a four-decade campaign to achieve
independence for the Basque region of Spain and the Basque part
of southwestern France, declared a permanent ceasefire in March
last year but then killed two Ecuadoran men in a December 30
bombing at Madrid airport.


Those deaths wrecked tentative attempts by the Socialist
government to engage in a dialogue with ETA on reaching a
political settlement for the region's future.


On April 8, ETA evoked in a statement published in regional
newspaper Gara a "scenario without violence" for the region but
said it did not intend to renounce violence in "current
conditions"

