

Three European banks marched on towards a record multi-billion-
dollar counter bid for Dutch lender ABN Amro on Friday, in a
frontal attack on its agreed deal with Barclays.


ABN Amro also came under fire from legal action by its own
shareholders to halt the sale of US subsidiary LaSalle as part of
the agreement with Barclays.


Barclays is bidding to fuel its rapid international expansion
into Asia, Europe and the emerging markets, whereas the RBS
consortium wants to break up ABN Amro, according to industry
experts.


Either takeover would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history, and create Europe's second-biggest bank,
the fifth biggest in the world.


The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander and Fortis said on
Friday that they intended to launch a formal ABN bid despite the
rejection of its initial offer price of 72 billion euros (98.4
billion dollars), a world banking record.


The trio said in a statement issued in London that they would
push forward with their takeover attempt, even after Dutch
management said it still preferred the deal with Barclays.


In Amsterdam, the Dutch shareholder's association VEB demanded
that ABN shareholders be allowed to vote on the proposed LaSalle
sale, which is viewed by analysts as "poison pill" introduced to
discourage the consortium.


The business chamber of the Amsterdam court of appeal will hold a
public hearing on the claim Saturday which could lead to a full-
blown court case.


ABN has ruled out a vote on the proposed sale of LaSalle to Bank
of America for 21 billion dollars.


The RBS takeover proposal had comfortably beaten a recommended
bid from Barclays, made on Monday, which valued the Dutch banking
titan at 67 billion euros.


ABN Amro chairman Rijkman Groenink had said on Thursday that
Barclays was his company's "ideal partner", adding momentum to
the British bank's offer.


But his shareholders called for management to "actively pursue"
the sale of the group to "maximise shareholder value."


The RBS-lead consortium said on Friday that it wanted to make a
formal offer -- sparking speculation that it was to make an
unsolicited bid.


"They (the RBS consortium) may well go hostile. Not yet, but they
may well do so," Ian Gordon of Dresdner Kleinwort told Thomson
Financial News.


Analysts at Bear, Stearns and Co also suggested the consortium
could now be prepared to go hostile.


The banks added in their statement: "The banks continue to
believe that their proposals offer materially higher value for
ABN Amro's shareholders and benefits to customers and employees
compared with the recommended offer from Barclays."


The consortium had meanwhile requested late Thursday that ABN
remove a requirement which compelled it to seek ABN's prior
authorisation before making a rival bid.


"We haven't got due diligence because we haven't managed to get
clarity on that issue," a source close to the consortium told AFP
on Friday.


"It remains our preference to try and find an agreed constructive
way forward, and we would hope to work with ABN to do that."


In reference to the group's statement on Friday, the source
added: "We have to file this legal and regulatory letter because
we want to keep our options open. It's no more than that."


The consortium proposal was pitched at 39 euros per share --
compared with Barclays' offer of 36.25 euros -- and was dependent
on ABN's US subsidiary LaSalle not being sold.

