

Sir Alex Ferguson on Friday launched a stinging attack on Jose
Mourinho in the wake of the Chelsea manager's claims that
Manchester United are being favoured by referees during the
Premiership title run-in.


United manager Ferguson has accused Mourinho of pursuing a
calculated strategy to increase pressure on match officials and
believes the Portuguese has been lucky to escape punishment by
the FA and UEFA.


The Chelsea manager triggered the latest round of controversy
when he insisted last weekend that United should have conceded a
penalty in their draw with Middlesbrough while his own side were
unjustly denied a spot-kick in a stalemate at Newcastle.


United winger Cristiano Ronaldo responded by suggesting his
countryman was playing mind games - prompting Mourinho to label
the player a "liar" if he was claiming United had not benefited
from a series of decisions.


And that proved to be a spat too far for Ferguson who reeled off
a roll-call of Mourinho's misdemeanours before claiming his rival
is undermining the game's authorities.


"Jose seems to be on some sort of some personal crusade about
regulations and honesty and suspicions within the game," the
United manager said.


"Everyone has an opinion. Ronaldo has an opinion, Carlos Querioz
has an opinion, but that doesn't mean to say they are liars.


"He was on about us changing the regulations but I'd like to know
who's changing the regulations? Is it us? Or the FA? Or the
Premier League?


"I think the FA and the Premier League have let him off lightly
because what he is saying is our game is suspicious and I think
that is wrong. I'm surprised there has been no action against
him, he's been going on and on and on."


Mourinho has a track record of controversy including the
allegation that Swedish referee Anders Frisk visited the
Barcelona dressing room during a Champions League clash between
the two sides in 2005 which led to UEFA banning the manager from
having contact with his players in the next round.


And the Chelsea manager's suggestion that Liverpool would target
Blues striker Didier Drogba in this week's Champions League semi-
final also drew an angry response from Ferguson.


"He has accused Barcelona in the past, he's accused the Swedish
referee (Anders Frisk), he put the German referee (Markus Merk)
under pressure the other night by suggesting Liverpool were going
to hunt down Drogba," he added.


"That was an insult to Liverpool. Jesus Christ, he's gone on and
on and on, it's a rant all the time now.


"I don't know what it (his motivation) is. But I don't think it's
fair to the game itself. In some people's eyes he's a hero, you
know. I don't know whether he is a villain or a hero because
there's a confusion in the way he goes about it.


"According to reports, he thumbed his nose at UEFA the other day
by hiding in a laundry bin to do a team talk (when banned from
the dressing room by UEFA). Is that breaking regulations? I don't
know.


"We have had four penalties awarded against us at Old Trafford
but there have been none at Stamford Bridge. But the biggest fear
for us now is by citing the fact that we are not allowed to get
penalties against us at Old Trafford it places a terrible
pressure on the referee in future games.


"And I think that, without doubt, that was calculated by him. If
we get a penalty against us in the next four games, he wins. No
doubt about that, Mourinho wins that war. And I think that's
wrong. So everything's calculated by him."

