

Rafael Nadal struggled with a swirling wind and a tenacious
opponent before holding on for his 70th straight clay-court win
on Friday to reach the semi- finals of the Barcelona Open.


The world number two finally overcame persistent Italian Potito
Starace 6-2, 7-5 in their quarter-final.


Spain's 20-year-old king of clay was however denied victory on
his first opportunity, losing serve while leading a set and 5-4
as a backhand went astray.


The winner of the last two editions at the Real club didn't
panic, breaking number 72 Starace straight back and assuring the
survival of his all-time mark a game later after one hour, 24
minutes.


The winner will face fifth seed David Ferrer, who defeated
Argentine David Nalbandian 7-6 (7/5), 6-2, in a semi-final.


Nadal, who struck 18 unforce errors, admitted his victory was a
chore.


"I had trouble with the wind, it was really swirling," said the
man who has not lost on clay in more than two years. "The
conditions made this win very difficult."


Nadal, winner of the last two French Open crowns at Roland
Garros, has won 11 clay court finals in which he has appeared in
since a quarter-final loss to Igor Andreev on April 2005 in
Valencia.


The Spaniard improved to 25-5 for 2007 with Masters Series titles
in the past month at Indian Wells and Monte Carlo.


Nadal needs two more victories to become the second player in
Barcelona history to win three consecutive titles, Sweden's Mats
Wilander achieving the feat in 1982-1984.


Meanwhile second seed Nikolay Davydenko fell victim to an over-
aggressive massage and was unable to play his quarter-final
against 12th seed Guillermo Canas.


"After my match last night, I had a deep massage on my wrist and
elbow but it ended up blocking some nerves in my wrist," said the
Russian.


"I can't move the fingers on my right hand very well and am
unable to play."


Canas, who beat Roger Federer twice last month on hardcourt, will
face either unknown Spaniard Oscar Hernandez or Agustin Calleri
of Argentina in the other semi-final.


Ferrer improved to a dominating 5-1 over Nalbandian, including
4-0 on clay.


Nalbandian has struggled all season to keep his head above water,
his record now standing a dead-level 9-9.


The 25-year-old former Wimbledon finalist also reached the last
eight here in 2004.


Ferrer improved to 23-9 on the season with a hardcourt title to
hand from Auckland in January. His previous best effort in
Barcelona was the third round at the last two editions.

