

US President George W. Bush said Friday that the international
community's patience over North Korea's nuclear promises was "not
unlimited" and warned of new sanctions.


Global powers involved in talks to dismantle North Korea's
nuclear program are "patient but our patience is not unlimited,"
he said after a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


"We talked about our mutual desire for North Korea to meet its
obligations," Bush told a joint news conference with Abe, who
described the situation as "regrettable."


"We expect North Korea to meet all its commitments under the
February 13th agreement, and we will continue working closely
with our partners," the president said.


Abe also lamented North Korea's attitude regarding the abductions
of Japanese citizens.


"We agree that the current state of the six-party talks, as well
as North Korea's attitude towards the abduction issue, are
regrettable and we'll work for closer coordination between our
two countries to achieve progress," he said.


The February agreement set April 14 as the deadline for North
Korea to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as the first step
in scrapping its nuclear programmes.


But that date slipped by because of an unresolved dispute
involving North Korean funds held in a Macau bank, which Bush
called "a bump in the road" that was being clarified.


The agreement was brokered at six-party talks with North Korea
also involving China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United
States.


Bush said that if North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il fails to make
the "right choice," the global community has "a structure in
place" to step up the pressure.


"We have the capability of more sanctions. We have the capability
of convincing other nations to send a clear message," he said.


South Korea's spy agency said Thursday that North Korea may be
preparing to invite UN atomic inspectors to its key nuclear
facility, as a prelude to shutting it down.


Unusual activity has been spotted around the Yongbyon reactor,
which produces the raw material for plutonium to make nuclear
weapons, the South  Korean parliament's intelligence committee
said in a statement.

