

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe said on Friday that burgeoning
economic ties with Asian countries were paying off for the
country shunned by its former trading allies in the west.


"I am pleased to report that significant headway has been made
with a number of investment projects that have been funded by
China now at various stages of implementation in all the key
sectors of our economy," Mugabe said in a keynote address at the
annual Zimbabwe International Trade Fair.


"Beside our trading partners in the Southern African Development
Community and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa,
countries of Asia are becoming very important partners in trade
and investment issues because of our Look East policy.


"Indeed Zimbabwe has been able to broaden her economic horizon by
embarking on various joint co-operation projects."


He acknowledged the country was saddled with economic woes
blaming the problems on "declared and undeclared sanctions by
western countries."


Mugabe adopted the "Look East" policy nearly four years ago after
Zimbabwe's trading partners turned their backs on the country
following presidential elections in 2002 which the opposition and
western observers said were rigged to hand Mugabe victory.


Mugabe called for "a strong and genuine partnership" between his
government and business to overcome the country's economic woes.


"One that is synergistic and collaborative rather than
adversorial and confrontational."


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downturn over the past seven
years with world- record inflation now at 2,200 percent, four in
every five people without a job while the majority of the
population living below the poverty threshhold.


Poor families resort to skipping meals, foregoing ingredients
like milk and margarine from the meals and walking long distances
to work in order to stretch their wages to the next pay day.


Critics blame the deterioration on controversial land reforms
which saw the government seizing farms from white commercial
farmers resettle landless blacks.


But government officials say the economic woes were the impact of
targetted sanctions imposed on Mugabe and members of his inner
circle by the EU and the United States following presidential
elections in 2002 whose outcome was disputed by the main
opposition and western observers.

