

A key suspect in the 2003 assassination of Serbian prime minister
Zoran Djindjic, former elite police commando Milorad Ulemek, on
Friday denied any involvement in the killing, reports said.


"I Milorad Ulemek ... have absolutely nothing to do with the
organisation and assassination of the prime minister," he told
Serbia's organised crime court in a closing statement.


Ulemek -- better known as "Legija" -- is charged with
masterminding Djindjic's murder on March 12, 2003 in front of the
government building in Belgrade.


A member of his special police unit, Zvezdan Jovanovic, is the
alleged sniper in the shooting, the indictment said.


"I had no reason to harm prime minister Djindjic as I had
friendly relationships with him, with mutual respect," said
Ulemek, who according to Serbian law had the right to address the
court as a key suspect.


Wearing a T-shirt bearing the image of a howling wolf, the symbol
of the "Red Berets" unit, Ulemek compared the Djindjic case with
the assassination of US president John F. Kennedy in 1963.


"All those who nowadays believe that Lee (Harvey) Oswald murdered
Kennedy will believe that Jovanovic killed our prime minister,"
said Ulemek.


Djindjic was a reformist who led the first democratic Serbian
government after former Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic was
overthrown in a popular uprising on October 5, 2000.


Both Jovanovic and Ulemek pleaded not guilty at the trial that
opened in December 2003, but has been delayed several times due
to changes in the prosecution and a judge, and obstruction by
defence teams.


The prosecution said Ulemek and others had planned Djindjic's
murder to overthrow his government and bring Milosevic forces
back to power.


But Ulemek denied such charges, saying he had "nothing to do with
politics."


He also rejected the evidence presented by the prosecution,
saying there was "no proof" that the weapon shown in the court
was the one Djindjic had been murdered with.


"I think we will all be losers after this trial, while those who
have organised everything have remained far from the court room,"
said Ulemek, without naming anyone.


In his closing statement on Monday, the prosecutor demanded
"maximum possible sentence" for the 13 men charged with
Djindjic's murder. If convicted, they face up to 40 years
imprisonment.


The trial will continue on May 4 with other suspects presenting
their final statements. The verdict is expected by mid-May.


Ulemek has already been sentenced by the special court to 40
years in jail for the murder of former Serbian president Ivan
Stambolic in 2000, carried out on Milosevic's orders.

