

Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya is to visit Switzerland
in May, the first official trip to Europe by the widely boycotted
Islamist premier, a Palestinian official said on Friday.


"This visit follows an agreement between Palestinian foreign
minister Ziad Abu Amr and Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey,"
the source said, adding that an exact date had not been decided.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, from Hamas's secular rival
Fatah, this week wound up a European tour aimed at convincing the
European Union to lift its sanctions against the Hamas-led
Palestinian coalition government.


Hamas is classified as a terrorist organisation by the United
States and by the European Union, of which Switzerland is not a
member.


The diplomatic moves come after Hamas and Fatah formed a unity
government last month with the express aim of ending the Western
boycott as well as lethal infighting.


While some European nations have met with non-Hamas members of
the new Palestinian government, Norwegian deputy foreign minister
Raymand Johansen is the only Western official to have met Haniya
or any other Hamas minister.


Johansen's talks with Haniya led Israel to cancel a meeting with
the Norwegian. Norway is also not an EU member.


Calmy-Rey's predecessor Moritz Leuenberger said last year that
the EU had been too hasty in deciding to suspend aid to the
Palestinian government.


"It would have been wiser to give Hamas a trial period and judge
it according to its acts," Leuenberger told Al-Jazeera television
in April 2006.


Israel has in the past prevented members of the Hamas-led
government from leaving the occupied West Bank to travel abroad,
but Haniya resides in the Gaza Strip which has a border with
Egypt.


During his European tour, Abbas warned the EU that the lack of
funds caused by the  bloc's year-long suspension of direct aid
would encourage extremism.


"We call upon the European Union to lift the embargo imposed on
our people, whose continuation will only succeed in encouraging
extremism," Abbas said in Athens. "The Palestinian people must be
assisted to live a normal life."


The European Union was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian
government until Hamas came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the EU, the United
States, the United Nations and Russia -- then suspended direct
aid to the Palestinian Authority.


Hamas's armed wing on Tuesday said it had ended a five-month
truce with Israel in response to raids that killed nine
Palestinians.


But a spokesman for Haniya said the government "remains bound to
the truce to preserve the interests of the Palestinian people and
to protect them from the crimes and aggressions of the enemy.


For his part, Abbas described the end of the truce as a "rupture
that won't last."

