

Five Americans were expelled from China Friday after staging an
illegal demonstration at Mount Everest base camp that was aimed
at "splitting" the country, the Chinese foreign ministry said.


China has also lodged an official protest with the United States
over Wednesday's protest, in which the Americans called for
Tibetan independence and voiced outrage at the 2008 Olympic torch
passing through the Himalayan region.


"Upon discovering this activity, a border unit of China's public
security bureau stopped the protest and according to... relevant
laws will expel these people outside of China," a foreign
ministry statement said.


The Americans had unfurled banners demanding a "free Tibet" and
protested against plans to take the Olympic torch to the top of
the mountain ahead of the 2008 Beijing Games, according to US-
based Students for a Free Tibet.


Police immediately detained four of the protesters at the scene,
while the fifth American was apparently taken into custody later,
as Chinese authorities had previously said that one person had
fled base camp.


Students for a Free Tibet, which organised the protest, confirmed
that the protesters had been expelled from Tibet and insisted
that the group would continue to protest against China's
oppressive policies there.


"They called us from the border, they were expelled at the Nepal
border, they are on their way to Kathmandu," said Lhadon Tethong,
a spokeswoman for the group in the Nepalese capital.


"They said they were all together, we are thrilled that they are
here safely."


She said the group would continue to protest against China's
occupation of Tibet, especially in the run-up to the 2008 Beijing
Olympics.


"The occupation of Tibet remains and we will continue to protest
China's political use of the Olympic Games to legitimise their
control of Tibet," she said.


The group said China was trying to whitewash widespread religious
and cultural oppression in Tibet through its Olympic activities.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has violently suppressed a number of uprisings
since then.


The ministry statement said the Chinese government had lodged an
official complaint with the United States over the protest and
demanded that Washington prevent similar incidents from
occurring.


"Tibet is an inseparable part of China and the Chinese government
and people will never tolerate any activity aimed at splitting
China," the statement said.


"The United States should work to dispel the odious influence of
this (protest) and prevent similar incidents from occurring."


The protest came a day before the Beijing Olympic Games
organisers formally announced plans to bring the Olympic torch to
the top of the world's highest peak, while also sending the torch
relay through Lhasa, the capital of Tibet.

