

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday warned that US plans
to deploy an anti-missile system in eastern Europe sharply
increase the danger of mutual destruction.


In comments laden with Cold War imagery, the Kremlin leader
accused the United States of misrepresenting the true aim of the
limited missile shield, which is to be based in NATO members
Czech Republic and Poland.


"The threat of causing mutual damage and even destruction
increases many times," Putin said after a meeting with Czech
President Vaclav Klaus in Moscow, Interfax and ITAR-TASS news
agencies reported.


He scorned Washington's claim that the role of the US interceptor
missiles would be to shoot down missiles from countries such as
Iran or North Korea, rather than from Russia.


"Neither terrorists, whom they are preparing to defend against,
nor Iran, nor North Korea have such a system," Putin said. "To
talk of terrorists is simply hilarious. They use other methods."


Moscow's opposition to the US deployment is steadily hardening,
fuelling East- West tensions already heightened over differences
on independence for Kosovo, Putin's record on democracy, and
Russian energy export policies.


On Thursday Putin stunned Western capital when he announced
suspension of Moscow's participation in the Soviet-era
Conventional Forces in Europe treaty.


Putin said this was in response to the planned US missile shield,
which will require 10 interceptor missiles based in Poland and a
radar in the Czech Republic. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation (NATO) expressed "grave concern" at the move.


The Pentagon insists the anti-missile system would defend against
one-off threats and could have no effect against Russia's
enormous nuclear missile arsenal.


Putin dismissed this Friday, saying the range of the system would
extend right to the Ural mountains, covering the European section
of Russia. "These systems will control Russian territory up to
the Urals if we do not take counter measures -- and we will."


In another Cold War echo, Putin compared the US anti-missile
deployment to the stationing of Pershing II ballistic nuclear
missiles in West Germany in the 1980s, a step that caused heated
debate within NATO.


"The threat is absolutely the same," Putin said. "This new
element fundamentally changes the European security system."


Washington accuses Moscow of artificially ratching up tension,
saying that the proposed system could make no impact on Russia's
military potential. Western analysts say that the Kremlin hopes
to use the issue to divide the NATO alliance.


On Thursday, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice complained
that Russia was applying Cold War logic to the missile defence
issue, and said any suggestion the system was directed at Moscow
was "ludicrous".

