

The Ugandan rebel group the Lord's Resistance Army said the
Ugandan army attacked it Friday in southern Sudan, a day after
the resumption of peace talks aimed at ending 20 years of war.


LRA spokesman Godfrey Ayoo said Ugandan forces attacked the
insurgents in south Sudan's Magwi County on two occasions in the
early hours, but that the rebels refrained from shooting back.


"If they continue to attack, we will ask our forces to defend
themselves," Ayoo warned.


The Ugandan armed forces denied carrying out the attacks.


On Thursday, the LRA and a government delegation resumed peace
talks in the southern Sudanese capital of Juba after a three-
month suspension sparked by rebel demands for a new venue and new
mediator.


Ayoo said the government had violated a truce agreement first
signed in August last year and renewed on April 14 after the
intervention of the UN special envoy to the talks, Mozambique's
former president Joachim Chissano.


"We have made our protest known to the leader of the government
delegation, Interior Minister Ruhakana Rugunda, who is currently
in Juba," he said.


"We are calling on the government of Uganda to stop acts of
violation and we ask foreign nations to intervene since such acts
threaten the peace process."


The Ugandan army rejected the allegations and accused the
insurgents of seeking to derail the talks, seen as the best
chance of ending the conflict.


"We have not attacked them," said army spokesman Felix Kulaije,
denying his forces were in Equatoria, the area where the LRA said
the attacks had taken place.


"They are trying to find a way to delay the process," he said.


In Kampala, President Yoweri Museveni met with Chissano and they
both expressed optimism about the progress of the Juba talks.


But a Brussels-based think tank called for more powers for
Chissano and for the United States and Britain to deploy envoys
to assist him in pressuring both sides to clinch a deal.


"The peace talks have improved security and begun to allow a few
of the 1.4 million internally-displaced northern Ugandans to
return home," said International Crisis Group (ICG) analyst Adam
O'Brien.


"But some of the wrong issues are on the table, the wrong LRA
negotiators are present, and ... Chissano does not yet have
sufficient leverage to overcome the mutual mistrust. Simply
resuming the talks under the current structure would be a recipe
for failure," he warned.


Rebel supremo Joseph Kony and his deputy Vincent Otti -- among
five LRA commanders indicted by the International Criminal Court
for war crimes -- have refused to participate in the talks and
have instead delegated the responsibility to junior officials.


Kony has vowed never to sign a peace deal unless the ICC
indictments are withdrawn.


The LRA took over a two-year-old rebellion in northern Uganda in
1988 and vowed to overthrow President Yoweri Museveni, but its
campaign has been marked by brutality against civilians.


The war has claimed tens of thousands of lives and displaced up
to one million people.

