

Mstislav Rostropovich was "a soldier of music" whose masterful
cello playing and heroic struggle against Soviet oppression
inspired deep admiration from around the globe, reflected in
tributes following his death Friday.


Classical musicians and political leaders joined in praising the
Russian musician, giving him a remarkable ovation to mark his
passing from the world stage.


Russian President Vladimir Putin led the homage, saying
Rostropovich's death to cancer at age 80 was "a terrible loss".


"Today we have lost a dear and close person, and Russia, the
whole world, has lost a great musician and humanist," he said.


Daniel Barenboim, the musical director of Berlin's prestigious
Opera, said Rostropovich "was not only an excellent cellist, but
also one of the most important musicians of the 20th century.


"His talent was immense and we can describe him as a true titan,"
he said of the musician, who in 1989 played an unforgettable Bach
rendition in front of the newly-crumbled Berlin Wall.


Seiji Ozawa, the conductor of the Japanese Philharmonic
Orchestra, said Rostropovich was a "great man" who taught him
much about music and life.


"Slava was a soldier of music," said Ozawa, who is currently in
Vienna, through his press attache.


"He told me that he was not afraid to die because he absolutely
believed in a new life after death. Surely he will wait for me
and I am looking forward to seeing him there again."


Italian conductor Ricardo Muti, a close friend of the cellist,
remember him as "one of the most extraordinary figures of our
time". He vowed to dedicate an interpretation of Gluck's 'Orpheus
and Eurydice' to him.


Antonin Matzner, the head of the Prague Spring Music Festival,
where Rostropovich began his international career in 1950,
recalled that the cellist had refused to return to the Czech
capital following the 1968 Soviet invasion.


"He kept his word, and never came back until 1991, a few days
after the last occupying soldier left," said Matzner.


"Goodbye dear friend!" dissident Russian writer Alexander
Solzhenitsyn said in a statement.


Rostropovich's decision to publicly defend Solzhenitsyn at a time
when the writer was being attacked by the Soviet establishment
led to his being ostracised from Moscow's musical mainstream.


"The departure of Mstislav Rostropovich is a bitter blow for our
culture," wrote Solzhenitsyn.


UNESCO Director General Koichiro Matsuura expressed his "deep
admiration" for a man who used his talent "as an instrument for
defending human rights".


French President Jacques Chirac hailed the "lesson in courage and
harmony" left by Rostropovich, saying that he "illuminated the
history of our times, of Russia, and of freedom".


In Baku, the capital of Azebaijan, where Mstislav Rostropovich
was born and spent the first four years of his life, memories of
the great musician and political campaigner survived at a museum
in what was once his family's apartment.


"He was a great man and a great patriot of Baku," said Shoyla
Heydarova, the director of the museum in his honour, the
Rostropovich Home Museum.


"He may have been famous all over the world, but he never forgot
where he came from," she said tearfully after learning of the
musician's death.

