

The Western Force kept their slim Super 14 finals hopes alive
with record 45-17 thrashing of the Central Cheetahs at Subiaco
Oval here on Friday.


The Force, needing a bonus-point win to remain mathematically
capable of reaching the playoffs in their second season,
delivered with a six-try spree that took them to their highest
score yet in the competition.


Led by the brilliance of Matt Giteau and Digby Ioane, the Force
blew the game open with a three-try first half and held a
commanding 21-0 lead at the break.


Needing four tries for the bonus point, the Force showed their
hand by declining the points on offer for penalties on at least
five occasions in the first stanza.


The Force used their extra mobility to run the tired South
Africans ragged, making eight first-half line breaks as the
struggling Cheetahs missed a dismal 24 tackles.


It took only 10 minutes for the Force to cross the Cheetahs'
line, but a forward pass saw Ryan Cross denied a try.


However, just six minutes later Cross was on the scoresheet
thanks to Giteau's deft backhand.


Up 7-0 after Giteau's conversion, the Force added a second try in
the 19th minute, with a Scott Staniforth break leading to a huge
overlap which ended with Ioane waltzing across the line with
ease.


Giteau again converted for a 14-0 lead and things got worse for
the Cheetahs when Duane Vermeulen was sin-binned.


The Force pressed the Cheetahs' line for several minutes late in
the half and won several penalties, before persistence paid off
and Staniforth crossed in the corner after a James Hilgendorf
pass.


Giteau converted from the sideline to cap a memorable half for
the Force.


It seemed like the Cheetah's horror Antipodean tour couldn't end
quickly enough, but they fought back bravely early in the second
half, scoring two tries through Philip Burger and Ryno van der
Merwe to breathe life back into the game and narrow the margin to
21-12.


However, A.J. Whalley slammed the door shut again and secured the
bonus point with his first Super rugby try in the 58th minute,
after another great run by Ioane.


It was then party time for the Force, with Tai McIsaac also
crossing for the first time in his Super career in the 61st
minute after a Drew Mitchell break.


Staniforth and Cross both added their second tries in the dying
moments.

