

A top Al-Qaeda commander who led operations in Afghanistan and
plotted the assassination of Pakistan's President Pervez
Musharraf has been taken into US custody, a Pentagon spokesman
said Friday.


Abd al Hadi al-Iraqi, who was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
within the past week, was intercepted as he was trying to reach
Iraq to manage Al-Qaeda operations and possibly plot attacks
against western targets outside Iraq, Pentagon spokesman Bryan
Whitman said.


Whitman said al-Iraqi "was one of Al-Qaeda's highest ranking and
senior operatives at the time of his detention."


He was a key Al-Qaeda commander in the late 1990s and from 2002
to 2004 was in charge of cross border attacks against coalition
forces, working directly with the Taliban, he said.


"He also in recent years was involved in plots to assassinate
perceived opponents of Al Qaeda to include Pakistan President
Musharraf as well as other officials," he said.


Al-Iraqi was held by the CIA before being turned over to US
military authorities, said Whitman.


The Pentagon spokesman declined to comment on when and where al-
Iraqi was captured or whether US forces were directly involved in
the capture.


"At the time of his capture he was trying to return to his native
country, Iraq, to manage Al-Qaeda's affairs and possibly focus on
operations outside Iraqi against western targets," he said.


"He was intercepted before he got there," he said.


Whitman said al-Iraqi also met with Al-Qaeda members in Iran, but
would not say when.


A fact sheet released by the Pentagon said al-Iraqi believed that
Al-Qaeda members in Iran "should be doing more with the fight,
including supporting efforts in Iraq and causing problems within
Iran."


He was born in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul in 1961 and
served in the Iraqi military before going to Afghanistan where he
spent 15 years, it said.


Before September 11, 2001, he was a member of the Al-Qaeda
military committee that oversaw terrorist and guerrilla
operations and paramilitary training, according to the Pentagon.


He also was a member of a 10-member group of advisors to Osama
bin Laden, and was known and trusted by the Al-Qaeda leader and
his deputy Ayman Al-Zawahiri, the Pentagon said.


It said that at one point he was Zawahiri's caretaker and that he
interacted with top Al-Qaeda planners and decision makers such as
Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, Abu Faraj al-Libi, Hamza Rabi'a and Abd
al-Rahman al Mujair.


More recently, he associated with leaders of other extremist
groups allied with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan,
including the Taliban, it said.


He worked "directly with the Taliban to determine responsibility
and lines of communication between Taliban and Al-Qaeda leaders
in Afghanistan, specifically with regard to the targeting of US
forces," he said.

