

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf arrived in Bosnia on Friday
to discuss boosting ties between the two countries, notably in
the economic sphere.


"People in Pakistan have an emotional attachment with the people
of Bosnia," Musharraf told journalists after meeting members of
Bosnia's tripartite presidency.


"We have mutually agreed that we need to realise this emotional
attachment and to convert it into economic, commercial and
trade," ties, said Musharraf, on his first official trip to the
Balkan nation.


Pakistan and Bosnia signed bilateral agreements on cooperation in
air traffic, the defence industry and boosting of economic
cooperation.


"We decided to get private sectors of the two countries closer
and identify areas of mutual interest ... so that we can
accelerate the pace of economic cooperation," Musharraf said.


Later in the day Musharraf also met Prime Minister Nikola Spiric
in the capital Sarajevo and addressed Bosnia's parliament.


In his address to the deputies, Musharaff recalled his visit to
Pakistani troops serving with the United Nations peacekeepers in
1992, at the outbreak of the country's three-and-a-half-year-long
war in Bosnia.


He had personally witnessed the suffering the country had gone
through in the 1990s, he said.


"One can only hope and pray that such circumstances do not come
to Bosnia again."


On Saturday, Musharraf is to meet members of a local inter-
religious council that gathers Muslims, Catholics and Orthodox
Christians.


He is expected to support dialogue between the three main ethnic
groups, Muslims, Croats and Serbs, who fought each other during
Bosnia's 1992-1995 war.


Muslims make up around 40 percent of Bosnia's population of 3.8
million, while Croats and Serbs account for 10 and 31 percent
respectively.


The Pakistani leader is also scheduled to pay his respects to
victims of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre.


Some 8,000 unarmed Muslim men and boys were killed in and around
the eastern town by Serb forces at the end of the conflict, the
worst atrocity in Europe since World War II.


At the end of his visit, Musharraf is to travel to Turkey where
he will meet his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai on Sunday and
Monday amid.

