

Dissident Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn on Friday
honoured the memory of cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, the friend
who came to his aid during a Soviet campaign against him.


"The departure of Mstislav Rostropovich is a bitter blow for our
culture," Solzhenitsyn said in a statement quoted by Russian news
agencies after Rostropovich's death on Friday.


"Goodbye dear friend!" Solzhenitsyn declared.


Rostropovich wrote an open letter to the official newspaper
Pravda in 1970 defending Solzhenitsyn when the author came under
attack by the Soviet propaganda machine for receiving the Nobel
Prize for literature.


Solzhenitsyn's most celebrated works, "One Day In The Life of
Ivan Denisovich" and "The Gulag Archipelago," drew on his
harrowing experiences during more than a decade in Soviet prison
camps.


While his work was warmly praised in the west, it earned him the
wrath of the Soviet authorities.


During the Soviet campaign against his friend, Rostropovich sent
a letter to four Soviet newspapers, including Pravda.


"I know that after my letter there will be 'an opinion' of me,
but I am not afraid to speak my mind," he wrote.


"The talents that make our glory should not be smashed," he
added.


"I know many of Solzhenitsyn's works, I appreciate them and I
think that he has suffered enough for his right to write the
truth as he sees it.


"I do not see any reason to hide what I think of him when a
campaign is being waged against him."


At the time Rostropovich wrote his letter, Solzhenitsyn was
living as a guest in his house.


He went on in his letter to recall similar campaigns against
Russian composers Sergei Prokofiev and Dmitri Shostakovich in the
late 1940s.


"Why has experience not taught us to be wiser?" he asked.


Rostropovich's extraordinary letter was never published by the
state-controlled press but it made the musician a marked man,
effectively barring him from the Soviet musical establishment.


Foreign tours became more difficult and he was kept away from the
Bolshoi Theatre's prestigious productions and from the major
Soviet orchestras.


Rostropovich finally fled the Soviet Union with his family in
1974.


He said later that the letter was the "best thing he had done" in
his life.


In 1984, Solzhenitsyn wrote to Rostropovich and his wife: "You
have paid a high price. None of my thanks will ever make up for
what you lost."

