

West Ham's chances of surviving in the Premiership were increased
on Friday when the east London club escaped a points deduction
over the controversial signings of Carlos Tevez and Javier
Mascherano.


The Hammers were hit with a fine of 5.5 million pounds (11
million dollars) after a disciplinary panel established by the FA
Premier League (FAPL) found that the two Argentinians were
effectively owned by a third party and that the club had acted
with "dishonesty and deceit" to disguise that fact from league
officials.


West Ham said it accepted the ruling but will consider an appeal
over the amount of the fine. While it is a record financial
penalty for an English club, it will be regarded as a price worth
paying if West Ham go on to retain their top flight status.


In its ruling, the panel concluded that the conduct of West Ham
amounted to "an obvious and deliberate breach of the rules" and
"a grave breach of trust as to the FAPL and its constituent
members."


The seriousness of the charges meant that "normally" a points
deduction would have been applied but it was decided that this
"would not be proportionate" in this case.


This was because of a number of mitigating factors, including
West Ham's recent change of ownership, their guilty plea and the
fact that the season is at such a crucial, late stage where the
impact of a points deduction would be greater than if it had been
imposed mid-way through the campaign.


The ruling means West Ham will go into Saturday's crucial
relegation clash with fellow strugglers Wigan only three points
adrift of safety after winning four of their last six matches.


But they could have to do without Tevez after the panel
effectively declared his current registration invalid, obliging
the club to attempt to complete the paperwork for a legitimate
transfer by a deadline of noon on Saturday if he is to play at
the JJB stadium.


Tevez and Mascherano were signed by West Ham on the final day of
the August 2006 transfer window.


Although they came from Brazilian club Corinthians, their
registrations were effectively owned by Media Sports Investment,
a consortium headed by businessman Kia Joorabchian.


At the time, the consortium was considering a takeover of West
Ham. But that bid never materialised and the club was instead
bought by an Icelandic consortium fronted by the current
chairman, Eggert Magnusson.


Mascherano, who made only three first-team starts at West Ham,
was transferred in January to Liverpool, where his contractual
position has been regularised and he has rediscovered the form
that made him one of Argentina's most impressive performers at
last summer's World Cup.


Tevez remains at Upton Park where he has become a cult hero to
the fans and played a key role in the recent revival that has
generated hope of a 'great escape' from the relegation zone.


The fine imposed on West Ham was made up of 2.5 million pounds
for breach of the FAPL's Rule U18, covering third-party relations
with players, and three million in respect of rule B13, which
requires clubs to act in good faith in their relations with each
other and the league.


The panel was most critical of the conduct of Paul Aldridge, West
Ham's former chief executive, and Scott Duxbury, who remains a
director of the club and was then in charge of legal and
commercial affairs.


The panel concluded that Aldridge had told "a direct lie" to FAPL
chief executive Richard Scudamore while voicing "surprise" over
Duxbury's claim that he was unaware of the rules governing third
party influences over players.


"What we believe to have occurred here is that Messrs (former
chairman Terry) Brown, Aldridge and Duxbury were anxious to
complete the registration of these players by the deadline of
31st August," the ruling said.


"They knew that the only means by which they could acquire them
would be by entering into the third party contracts.  Equally,
they were aware that the FAPL, at the very least, may not -- and
in all probability would not -- have approved of such contracts.


"They determined to keep their existence from the FAPL."

