

Troubled Italian airline Alitalia said Friday it planned to
cancel nearly half of its flights on May 3 because of a 24-hour
strike by flight attendants.


The 356 flight cancellations out of a total of 711 included 202
domestic and 154 international flights, with 30,000 passengers
set to be inconvenienced, Alitalia said.


The company said trade union representatives had been
intransigent at "a delicate" time for the airline, referring to
the Italian government's plans to sell a 39.9-percent stake in
the national carrier.


Trade unions said they had called the strike after the failure of
negotiations with management to approve a new collective
agreement for flight attendants.


Under the planned privatisation of Alitalia, Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi's center-left government has set numerous
conditions, including that the company maintain its brand and
national identity, the cities the airline serves and the size of
its workforce.


Lack of room for manoeuvre in restructuring the carrier in the
face of strong unions ever prepared to stage crippling strikes is
a major liability facing an eventual buyer, analysts believe.


The cost of taking over Alitalia is estimated at about 1.5
billion euros (2.0 billion dollars), its current stock market
capitalisation, plus the cost of renewing its ageing fleet of 183
aircraft and assuming its debt of about one billion euros.


Three main bidders have emerged, including Russian airline
Aeroflot, a consortium of private equity groups and the owner of
Italian airline Air One.


The Italian government has a 49.9-percent stake in Alitalia and
plans to sell at least 39.9 percent which would then force the
buyer to make an offer for the rest of the company.


Alitalia said in January that it had enough cash to survive "more
than 12 months" but confirmed that it could no longer achieve the
targets it set in late 2005 under a plan that enabled the company
to obtain one billion euros in new capital.


The strike next week is "more serious" given the positive trend
since the start of the year in terms of traffic and passenger
numbers, which will be "seriously compromised" by the strike, the
group said.

