

Cycling's top one-day veterans will have to be on their guard if
they are to prevent a cherubic challenge to their hopes of
victory in the Liege-Bastogne- Liege classic on Sunday.


At 115 years old, Liege is the oldest bike race still in
existence having first been held in 1892.


But it's not just its vintage status that has the likes of Davide
Rebellin, Alejandro Valverde and Paolo Bettini salivating at the
thought of once more adding their names to Liege's rich
'palmares'.


At 262km long and with 12 climbs of varying lengths and
gradients, Liege - one of the five 'monuments' in one-day racing
- brings the spring classics season to a close by giving the
toughest one-day riders on the planet a painful day in the
saddle.


In the past, Belgian legend Eddy Merckx came out on top an
impressive five times.


More recently Valverde, Alexandre Vinokourov and Rebellin have
managed to emerge from the punishingly steep but short final
climb in the largely Italian neighbourhood of Saint Nicolas with
enough juice left to secure victory.


Valverde was barely 26 years old when he won his maiden Liege
last year, finishing ahead of 2000 and 2002 winner Bettini and
Italian climber Damiano Cunego.


However Liege has traditionally been one of those races which
favours experience over youth.


Rebellin last won in 2004, the season in which he dominated all
three Ardennes classics by winning at the Amstel Gold Race,
Fleche Wallonne and then Liege.


The Italian who resembles comic hero Tin Tin is brimming with
confidence, having won at Fleche on Wednesday and finishing
runner-up to Gerolsteiner team-mate Stefan Schumacher at Amstel
last week.


"It suits me perfectly," the taciturn 35-year-old Rebellin said.


Reigning world champion Bettini seems fully recovered from
midweek stomach problems but the 33-year-old Quick Step rider
arguably lacks the kind of team support which Rebellin will
enjoy.


Nevertheless Bettini will be desperate to hand Quick Step their
first major classics win of the campaign, and his experience
could prove crucial in the latter stages, which feature eight
climbs the first of which begins after 179.5km at Stockeu.


At 1.1km long and with a punishing average gradient of 11.6
percent, the ensuing six climbs, whose average gradients are all
in the more manageable region of five to 7.4 percent, will be a
tonic.


Valverde will be watching the same riders who pushed him all the
way at Amstel and Fleche, where he finished second behind
Rebellin in midweek.


"The riders to watch out for will be the same as in the two other
Ardennes classics," said the Caisse d'Epargne all-rounder, who
has also pointed out CSC's Frank Schleck, Germany's Matthias
Kessler, who rides for Astana alongside 2005 winner Alexandre
Vinokourov, Dutch pair Michael Boogerd and Thomas Dekker and
Italian Danilo Di Luca.


"The more you eat the hungrier you get," said Di Luca, referring
to his race ambitions after finishing third at both Amstel and
Fleche Wallonne.


All of the above however will also be keeping a close eye on 25
-year-old Cunego, and his emerging compatriot Riccardo Ricco, who
is only 23.


Cunego, the 2004 Giro d'Italia winner, honed his Liege
preparations by winning the Tour of Trentino on Friday complete
with two stage victories.


Ricco is an emerging star in Italy, where stage wins at the
Tirreno-Adriatico - complete with a hard-headed attitude which
has upset a few of his elders - have singled him out for major
success.


Both, however, will need the right blend of courage and
experience if they want to be at the front ahead of the day's
final, decisive climb through Saint Nicolas, a 900 metre slog at
an average gradient of 11 percent.

