

The US Supreme Court has refused to block government moves that
would result in severely limiting contacts between Guantanamo
war-on-terror detainees and their lawyers, a judicial source said
Friday.


The court rejected a request submitted Wednesday by detainee
lawyers to keep alive habeas corpus petitions by detainees to
protect their legal rights, including access to their lawyers.


In effect the ruling could lead to the cancellation of
arrangements established over the past few years that allowed
lawyers to meet with detainees and retain sensitive records from
Guantanamo over their cases.


Based on government recommendations indicated by one case last
year, that could result in restricting detainees access to only
one lawyer, and allowing the lawyer only three visits with the
client, regardless of the duration of the client's detention.


The move came following the government's request to a district
court last week to enforce a higher court's dismissal of the
dozens of habeas corpus cases filed by Guantanamo inmates.


The approach to the Supreme Court by detainee lawyers was a
motion to keep alive the habeas corpus cases until the lawyers
can submit new arguments to the Supreme Court.


But the court's judgement on the Wednesday petition left in place
its earlier stance which effectively required detainee lawyers to
explore all other possible legal avenues available to them before
appealing again to the Supreme Court.


Lawyers for war-on-terror detainees have said that eliminating
habeas corpus rights would allow the government to treat
Guantanamo prisoners with impunity.


"The government is seeking to hide evidence of torture, abuse and
indefinite detention by taking the lawyers away from the cases,"
said Vincent Warren, head of the New York-based Center for
Constitutional Rights, which is coordinating the defense of
hundreds of detainees.


The move came in the wake of the failure of the prisoners to
persuade a court of appeals earlier this year to acknowledge they
had right to challenge their detention.


In February, the federal appeals court in Washington rejected the
suit filed by dozens of prisoners challenging their open-ended
detention at the US naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


The Supreme Court then declined to take up the case on April 2,
saying the detainees still had other venues for their complaint.


Lawyers for Guantanamo detainees already face elaborate rules and
restrictions for meetings and communication with their clients,
based on security measures by the US military running the
detention camp.

