

The Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, one
of the world's biggest sources of funding against the diseases,
said Friday that it will need to triple in size by 2010.


The Fund's board agreed at a meeting to raise its spending target
to six billion dollars a year to meet projected demand, it said
in a statement.


Further increased demand for financing from developing countries
could potentially raise the figure to eight billion dollars, it
added.


Michel Kazatchkine, executive director of the Fund, said the new
target was "an inspiring challenge" for the Fund's community,
including health workers in more than 130 countries, technical
partners, and donors.


The public-private partnership funds some two-thirds of all
tuberculosis treatment worldwide, 45 percent of malaria treatment
and nearly 30 percent of programmes against AIDS.


Kazatchkine dubbed the decision by representatives of donor and
recipient governments, aid groups, and the private sector --
notably the Bill And Melinda Gates Foundation -- "a vote of
confidence" in the Fund's work.


"Programmes we support are currently saving 3,000 lives per day,"
he said.


"The increase in funding will allow the world to do much, much
more, to reach G8 and UN goals like providing AIDS treatment to
all who need it, having every African child sleep under a bed
net, and cutting the death toll of TB in half," he added.


The Global Fund has repeatedly called on donors to dig deeper
into their pockets to help meet its goals.


"We need more finance, much more finance, and we need reliable
and predictable finance," the then executive director, Richard
Feachem, said last August.


The Global Fund was created in January 2002 by UN Secretary
General Kofi Annan to channel new money into local projects in
poor nations.


The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation run by the US software
billionaire and his wife kickstarted the Fund with an initial 100
million dollar donation, followed by 50 million in 2004 and a
pledge of a further 500 million last year.


The board recognised that the expansion would require significant
additional contributions from new and existing public and private
sources, as well as "innovative" financing mechanisms.

