

The German presidency of the European Union said Friday it was
"disappointed" that elections in Nigeria were marred by
irregularities and violence and called for re-runs in the worst
cases.


The presidency said polls held on April 14 and 21 "did not
represent significant progress in relation to 2003 elections" in
spite of improvements provided by legislation enacted last year.


"The EU is deeply concerned that these elections were marred by
many irregularities and by violent incidents resulting in a high
toll of victims," it said in a statement issued in Berlin.


"The EU expects that the persons responsible for this violence
will be brought to justice."


It noted that many states faced major organisational problems
including late arrival of ballots and that there were "well-
substantiated reports" of attempts to rig the voting. In
addition, there was evidence of results being "distorted" after
the vote count.


The presidency said that Nigerian law provided sufficient tools
to resolve the irregularities and commended the independence
shown by the Nigerian judiciary and newly established mechanisms
developed by the appellate courts.


"The EU calls on all political actors to use peaceful means and
to demonstrate responsibility by strictly using the legal
procedures and not to fail the people of Nigeria," it said.


"The EU also hopes that the Nigerian authorities will look
sympathetically at the case for re-runs where there is proven
evidence of serious electoral malpractice."


The EU said it looked to the Independent National Election
Commission and other authorities to quickly provide the evidence
the electoral tribunals will need in order to complete their work
as swiftly as possible.


Nigeria's first round of widely flawed elections began with
gubernatorial and state assemblies polls on April 14, followed by
the parliamentary and presidential polls of April 21.


They have been slammed by several groups, including the United
States and EU, as the worst in the nation's recent history.

