

The EU's transport chief on Friday outlined a new bloc-wide
initiative against dangerous driving, following new figures
showing wide gaps between road death figures in the 27 member
states.


The statistics show that the highest road death rate is in
Lithuania, with Maltese roads the safest.


EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot told reporters in
Brussels that he planned to introduce an EU-wide law for the more
serious road driving infringements -- allowing a culprit to be
fined or otherwise brought to justice in one member state when
the incident happened in another.


Therefore a German driver found speeding while in France could be
fined according to French law even after he has returned home.
Barrot mentioned speeding, drink-driving and failure to wear a
seat belt as among the infringements which could come under the
new law.


Barrot admitted the new measures, which he hopes to have adopted
by the European Commission this year, would not be easy to apply
due to the different systems which exist throughout the EU.


However "we need to give a European dimension to the fight
against danger on the roads," he added.


The road accident figures were published to mark the first
European Road Safety Day -- focused on the 18-25 age group for
which death on the road is the top killer.


While that group comprises 10 percent of the EU population, it
accounts for 20 percent of its road deaths.


"The battle for road safety can be won only if we can strongly
galvanise public opinion," Barrot told reporters in Brussels.


"The aim is to save 25,000 lives by 2010 in comparison to 2001,"
he added.


The European Commission launched its road safety action plan in
2001 with the aim of halving the road deaths in Europe.


The latest figures show the initiative is on target, with annual
death down from over 50,000 to an estimated 38,600 in 2006, a
drop of 23 percent. The figures do not cover Bulgaria and Romania
which joined the EU this year.


The overall figures show that the Balkan states had more than
three times as many road deaths per head of population than the
top performers.


A total of 233 people out of every million in Lithuania were
killed on the national roads in 2006. Next on the list came
Latvia (177 per million) and Estonia (152).


Malta was way in front in the road safety stakes with 25 deaths
per million, followed The Netherlands (43) and Sweden (49).


Britain showed up well on the chart with 56 deaths per million
people, with Germany on 62 and France on 75, all below the EU
average of 86 road fatalities in 2006 per million inhabitants.

