

The US economy expanded at a worse-than-expected 1.3 percent rate
in the first quarter, marking the slowest growth pace in four
years, the government announced Friday.


Growth in the world's biggest economy weakened notably, amid a
widespread housing slump, following an annualized 2.5-percent
clip in the prior quarter.


The first snapshot of 2007 growth disappointed most Wall Street
analysts who had anticipated growth of at least 1.8 percent.


In the immediate aftermath of the report's release, the euro
leapt to a record high against the dollar, which has weakened
considerably in recent months, striking 1.3682 dollars as fears
mounted about America's economic strength.


The bulging US trade deficit with its major trading partners as
well as concerns about a widespread housing market downturn have
conspired to hobble US growth, analysts said.


US exports fell 1.2 percent in the January-March quarter while
imports rose 2.3 percent, contributing to the lower-than-expected
reading for US output.


Rising demand for imported goods can dent US growth, especially
if it means that Americans, for example, are buying more foreign-
made cars than comparable models made in Detroit.


Housing investment acted as a major drag on growth yet again, as
such investment declined for a sixth straight quarter, slumping
17 percent compared with a year earlier.


Despite worries about consumer spending, which accounts for the
lion's share of economic growth, the report appeared to show
consumer optimism holding up.


Consumer spending rose 3.8 percent in the first quarter, helping
offset other weakening components, although spending slowed from
a 4.2 percent clip in the prior quarter.


Purchases of durable goods, big items such as cars, washing
machines and televisions, surged 7.3 percent.


Inflation signals in the report may concern the Federal Reserve,
as a  key inflation gauge shot up 3.4 percent, compared with a
one percent gain in the final three months of 2006. But core
prices were up just 2.2 percent.


Spiking inflation gauges put pressure on the US central bank to
raise interest rates, but a potential hike in rates could further
deepen the gloom in the housing sector, so the Fed is walking a
policy tight rope as it seeks to oversee sustainable growth.


The Fed's benchmark fed funds short-term interest rate is
currently anchored at 5.25 percent.

