

Arsene Wenger faces a challenge that will define Arsenal's future
as he tries to balance the expectations of his star players with
the need to develop his young prodigies.


Arsenal will finish without a trophy for the second successive
season and, while a victory over Fulham on Sunday would clinch a
Champions League place, Wenger knows the likes of Thierry Henry
and William Gallas won't be satisfied if the Gunners' barren run
stretches to a third year.


With Cesc Fabregas, Emmanuel Eboue, Denilson and Robin van Persie
all showing signs of becoming top-class players, Wenger has the
tools to build another title-winning team.


But Chelsea and Manchester United pose a formidable barrier to
his ambitions and Gallas has already expressed his frustration at
Arsenal's failure to mount a serious challenge for silverware,
while Henry admits his future at the club is tied to Wenger.


The prospect of his senior players beginning to doubt whether
Arsenal can seriously compete for major honours is a concern for
Wenger, but he is adamant success is just around the corner.


"I feel it has been an interesting season, a season full of
promise, full of tests for the club and I am confident that it
will help us to be stronger next year," he said.


"It is not enough, do not take me wrong, but it is not a super
disaster. We moved to a new stadium, and when you move to a new
stadium, you drop points.


"We had big, big long-term injuries, yet despite this we still
finish fourth, or maybe third, in the league and just having lost
in the Carling Cup final with a very, very young team."


Wenger played down suggestions that Gallas wanted to leave after
reportedly falling out with several team-mates. "He has had a
difficult season this year because he's a very ambitious player,"
Wenger said. "There are no special differences other than the
usual ones every player has with his partners, there are no
problems with him at all."


Fulham manager Lawrie Sanchez has prepared for the daunting trip
to the Emirates Stadium comforted by his ability as Northern
Ireland coach to upset supposedly superior opponents.


Sanchez has masterminded shock victories over England, Sweden and
Spain and desperately needs a similiar result on Sunday as he
tries to stop Fulham slipping into the relegation zone.


Sanchez insists he will feel responsible if Fulham go down, even
though he has only been in charge for two matches.


"Some people have said I'm in a win-win situation here but I'm
not," he said. "My reputation is on the line and I don't want to
see that sullied by relegation.


"I'll blame myself if we do go down. If we can get three draws
from our three remaining games and limp over the line that would
be enough, and I'd take that because this is not about me.


"It's about the club and the players, who represent the fans,
making sure we're in the Premiership next year."


Sanchez, who spent a day picking up training tips from Wenger
last season, is not short of confidence and is convinced he will
succeed in the Premiership whether or not he gets a permanent
post at Fulham.


"It would be nice if we beat Arsenal and everyone said well done
to me, but it's not about that," he said.


"Sixteen days into the 32-day contract I believe I'm up to
managing in the Premiership. If it's not here then it will be
somewhere else."

