

Former CIA director George Tenet says in a new book that there
was no serious debate within the US administration ahead of the
2003 invasion of Iraq, according to US media reports Friday.


Tenet, who led the Central Intelligence Agency in the runup to
and after the war launched to eliminate the alleged threat of
Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, also says he was scapegoated
by the White House when no WMD were found in Iraq.


In his book "At the Center of the Storm," to be published Monday,
Tenet defends his own role in the decision to attack Iraq while
blasting Vice President Dick Cheney and other US officials, the
New York Times reported Friday after it obtained a copy of the
book.


"There was never a serious debate that I know of within the
administration about the imminence of the Iraqi threat," Tenet
writes.


He also said, according to the Times, that the administration of
President George W. Bush never undertook a "serious discussion"
about the option of containing Iraq without resorting to an
attack.


In the book and in an interview with CBS News to be broadcast
Sunday, Tenet also lashes out at Cheney and others for citing his
use of the basketball term "slam dunk" -- suggesting
incontestable -- to describe the intelligence used to justify the
invasion of Iraq.


Tenet says he did use the phrase in a White House discussion
ahead of the war, but only about how to make the case to the US
people about the need to send US troops to Iraq.


However, he said, administration officials told writer Bob
Woodward that he said "It's a slam-dunk case" for the CIA's
evidence that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein had stockpiled WMD.


After Woodward wrote that in his 2004 book "Plan of Attack," the
blame for the failure of pre-war intelligence was directed
straight at Tenet, with Cheney repeatedly citing his "slam-dunk"
phrase in interviews and speeches.


"Rather than acknowledge responsibility, the administration's
message was: Don't blame us. George Tenet got us into this mess,"
Tenet writes.


"It's the most despicable thing that ever happened to me," he
told CBS.


Even so, the Times reports, Tenet takes some blame for the key
2002 US intelligence study which strongly asserted that Hussein
was producing dangerous WMDs.


"In retrospect, we got it wrong partly because the truth was so
implausible," he writes.


In his CBS interview, excerpts of which were released Thursday,
Tenet also defends CIA treatment of "high value detainees" in the
war on terror against widespread accusations that torture
techniques like waterboarding were used to extract information.


He denied torture was used, but insisted that the program's
"enhanced interrogation" techniques extracted crucial
intelligence on threats to the United States, more than all of
the other US intelligence programs combined.


"I know that this program has saved lives. I know we've disrupted
plots," he told CBS.


He did not explain what "enhanced interrogation" involved, but
said it was necessary because "these are people who know who's
responsible for the next terrorist attack ... (who) wouldn't
blink an eye about killing you, your family, me and my family and
everybody in this town."


In the book Tenet also said the White House had not taken
seriously CIA warnings about the Al-Qaeda threat ahead of the
group's September 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.


But the Times reports that he also is surprised that Al-Qaeda has
not struck in the United States since then.


"I do know one thing in my gut .... Al-Qaeda is here and
waiting," he writes.

