

The dollar's latest slide has stimulated little reaction from US
authorities, with analysts saying a weak greenback may benefit
Washington at a time of preoccupation with Asia, especially
China.


With the dollar having hit all-time lows against the euro and the
British pound above two dollars, US officials have made few
comments on currency.


Last week, US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson reiterated his
call for a strong dollar in brief remarks while urging China to
let its currency appreciate faster against the greenback.


"I believe very strongly that a strong dollar is in our nation's
interest," Paulson said in an interview with PBS television a
week ago, without elaborating.


Some analysts say Washington is privately content to see a
gradual weakening of the dollar, which could help ease the US
trade deficit and boost the competitivity of US exports.


US officials are "not especially worried about the weakening of
the US exchange rate given that it has yet to put unwanted upward
pressure on Treasury bond yields," said John Lonski, chief
economist at Moody's Investors Service.


Lonski said that low rates for US bonds mean there is strong
demand for government debt and Washington is not forced to pay
higher rates for borrowing.


"Given the deceleration of domestic spending, the US Treasury
quietly approves of recent dollar exchange rate weakness," he
said.


Market movements accelerated after the April 13 Group of Seven
finance ministers' meeting, which issued a statement repeating a
phrase that exchange rates "should reflect economic fundamentals"
and that excessive fluctuation is "undesirable."


The G7 had faced some pressure from Europe to deal with the weak
yen, which is being used for so-called carry trades using low-
cost loans in Japan.


But Washington and Tokyo had resisted any specific language on
the yen, and the result has been further weakness in the Japanese
currency. The dollar has also been impacted by the shift into
European currencies and amid concerns about softening US economic
conditions.


David Kotok, analyst at Cumberland Advisors, said Washington
appears more focused on the Chinese yuan in the face of a massive
US trade deficit with China, and to some degree on the yen.


Kotok said the US administration "seems to make its noise in the
direction of the Far East," but is silent about the yen "because
the administration knows the Japanese are weaning themselves from
a zero-interest rate policy."


In the United States and Britain, key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007. Eurozone rates are also believed headed
higher but traders expect US rates to go lower this year.


Eric Chaney, analyst at Morgan Stanley, said the investment
bank's calculations show the euro is overvalued by some 20
percent against the US dollar, 34 percent against the yen and 16
percent against the Swiss franc, with only sterling sightly
overvalued against the single European currency.


"In the real world of financial markets, fundamentals matter only
in the long term and deviations from fundamentals may last for
long periods of time," Chaney said.


Some European officials fear the high euro may kill off the
economic recovery by pricing the zone's exports out of the
market.


But Chaney said eurozone officials are in a bind because they
"have already implicitly acknowledged that a weaker US dollar
makes sense, in order to reduce the US current account deficit
that they have identified as a threat for financial stability."


Analysts point out that the US trade deficit was cut in half
between 1985 and 1995 during an earlier round of dollar weakness.


But this time, things may be different as much of the US trade
gap comes to a large degree from oil imports and goods from
China, which may see little impact from a weaker dollar.


"Marginally, a cheaper currency helps exporters," he said.
"However in the US the bulk of the economy is services and
therefore the total macroeconomic impact is relatively small
compared with a goods-related economy."

