

Afghanistan will display Saturday its growing military might with
a large-scale parade of new recruits and equipment in a show of
power to Taliban insurgents stepping up attacks.


The parade, to mark the 1992 defeat of communism, will see a
march past President Hamid Karzai and other dignitaries in the
city stadium, a public execution ground under the 1996-2001
Taliban government.


About 20,000 people are expected, defence ministry spokesman
Mohammad Zahir Azimi told AFP.


"It will show the development of the Afghan National Army ... new
military equipment and vehicles will be displayed for the
confidence of our nation and as a show of power for the enemies
of our country," he said Friday.


Afghanistan's army, which reached about 200,000 in the late
1980s, was destroyed in the 1992-1996 civil war that followed the
fall of communism and in the subsequent Taliban rule.


The international community, which sent thousands of troops and
billions of dollars after the Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies
were driven from power in a US-led invasion in 2001, is helping
to rebuild the force.


The United States has played a lead role in the training, with
embedded advisors working among the growing forces, and sending
over millions of dollars worth of equipment.


Washington announced last year it wanted to spend 8.6 billion
dollars on training and equipping the Afghan security forces over
the next two years.


In February it handed over more than 200 Humvee vehicles and more
than 12,000 light weapons in what was described as the "tip of
the iceberg" of the planned commitment.


From under 2,000 in 2003, the army now numbers more than 46,000
soldiers. It is aiming for 64,000 by the end of the year, Azimi
said at the weekend.


A report to the UN Security Council in March said however the
"present for duty" strength of the amy was only around 25,000
with the rest of the soldiers in training, on leave or involved
in duties at army headquarters.


The Taliban movement, estimated to number a few thousand fighters
although the figures are not clear, is meanwhile stepping up its
attacks after a lull over winter with almost daily violence
including suicide attacks and ambushes.

