

Two British newspapers gave libel damages to actor Hugh Grant on
Friday after he sued over reports about his behaviour with ex-
girlfriend Jemima Khan.


The Mail on Sunday and the Daily Mail apologised and promised not
to repeat the allegations.


The owner of the two publications, Associated Newspapers, agreed
to pay the undisclosed damages to a cancer charity and to
reimburse Grant's legal costs.


The 46-year-old actor, who lodged the lawsuit in February, was
not present at London's High Court, where the settlement was
announced.


Grant's lawyer Simon Smith said the contentious articles included
one headlined "Hugh, Drew and the Jealousy of Jemima," in which
it was alleged that Grant flirted with a Warner Bros. senior
executive.


A second, "Guess Hugh's free to join Liz at her wedding after
all," alleged that Grant would attend his former lover Liz
Hurley's marriage to Indian businessman Arun Nayar, make a speech
and act as an usher, he added.


It also alleged that he had sponsored a chimpanzee and bought her
an expensive necklace, and that his actions were "the last straw"
for socialite Khan, who is the former wife of Pakistani
cricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan.


The article "Hugh aren't good enough" alleged that he resented
having to promote his films.


Grant said in a statement: "I took this action because I was
tired of the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday papers publishing
almost entirely fictional articles about my private life for
their own financial gain.


"I'm also hoping that this statement in court might remind people
that the so- called 'close friends' or 'close sources' on which
these stories claim to be based almost never exist."


It has been a busy week for Grant. On Wednesday, he was arrested
on suspicion of assault after allegedly kicking a photographer
and hurling a container of baked beans at him London.


Grant starred in "Four Weddings and a Funeral" (1994), "Notting
Hill" (1999), "Bridget Jones's Diary" (2001), "About a Boy"
(2002) and "Love Actually" (2003).


His last film, "Music and Lyrics", came out in February and
topped the British box office. He played a 1980s pop star.


In 1995 in Los Angeles the actor was convicted of indecent
conduct with a prostitute in a public place.

