

Former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi was cleared "of
everything" Friday in a high-profile corruption case involving
bribing judges to keep a business rival out of a lucrative deal,
his lawyer said.


"After 11 years of effort, Silvio Berlusconi was cleared of
everything," Nicolo Ghedini told AFP by telephone from Milan.


An appeals court in the northern city upheld a ruling in December
2004 in which Italy's richest man was accused of bribing judges
to prevent industrialist Carlo de Benedetti from taking over the
state-owned food company SME in 1985.


Prosecutors had sought a five-year prison sentence for the
flamboyant Berlusconi, whose fortune was estimated at 11 billion
dollars last year by Forbes magazine.


Several other people including judges and Berlusconi's former
lawyer Cesare Previti were convicted in another judge-bribing
case.


The 72-year-old Previti, who was Berlusconi's defence minister
during his first stint as prime minister in 1994, is serving a
six-year sentence under house arrest instead of in jail because
of his age.


The SME case was the most serious among a raft of cases related
to Berlusconi's business dealings.


The conservative opposition leader, who was again prime minister
from 2001 to 2006, has been in the dock in eight separate trials
on charges including corruption, tax fraud, false accounting and
illegally financing political parties, but he has never been
definitively convicted.


Now that he is 70, Berlusconi will not risk spending any time
behind bars if he ever is convicted.


Berlusconi is still on trial along with his former tax lawyer
David Mills of Britain, the estranged husband of British Culture
Secretary Tessa Jowell.


The media tycoon is accused of paying Mills 600,000 dollars for
favourable testimony during two other trials in the late 1990s.


The two face prison terms of between four and 12 years if
convicted.


The former prime minister is accused of money laundering by using
offshore companies to buy the film rights between 1994 and 1999
and then reselling them at inflated prices to Mediaset, which as
a result paid less tax in Italy.


Berlusconi, Mills and a dozen other defendants stand accused, in
a separate trial, of tax fraud in the 1999 purchase of film
rights in the United States by Mediaset, the television group
owned by the Berlusconi family.


The staunchly anti-communist Berlusconi, who has consistently
denied wrongdoing, has long alleged bias on the part of "red
judges" in the Milan judiciary who he claims are out to destroy
him.


"In a normal situation this trial would never even have come to a
preliminary hearing," lawyer Ghedini told the ANSA news agency.

