

Replacement winger Tane Tu'ipulotu kept the Waikato Chiefs' Super
14 season alive with the decisive try two minutes from time in
their 28-23 win over the NSW Waratahs here Friday.


The victory moves the Chiefs to third spot on the ladder and puts
pressure on the Sharks, Bulls and Brumbies, who are all still to
play this round. The Waratahs stayed second from bottom as their
dreadful season continued.


The match featured five lead-changes in the second half as both
sides threw the ball around looking for a win, thrilling the
long-suffering NSW supporters.


But wet conditions over the past week also meant a high number of
dropped balls and simple errors as several certain tries went
begging.


"A win is all that matters at this time of the year," Chiefs
captain Jonno Gibbes said.


"I thought the Waratahs disrupted us and knocked us off our
pattern and our stride. It was pretty ugly but I guess four
points is a positive."


The Chiefs started brilliantly and looked headed for an easy win
when they raced to a 10-0 lead after only seven minutes.


Flyhalf Stephen Donald opened the scoring with a penalty almost
off the kick- off, before All Black winger Sitiveni Sivivatu
scored a trademark solo try four minutes later.


The Waratahs looked in all sorts of trouble but they gradually
clawed their way back into contention and were rewarded for some
adventurous play when flyhalf Sam Norton-Knight threw a dummy to
break the Chiefs' defensive line and cross untouched.


Donald put the Chiefs out to a six-point lead with another
penalty, but the Waratahs drew level with two penalties to
fullback Peter Hewat as the sides went into the break locked at
13-13.


A Donald penalty saw the Chiefs back in front three minutes after
the restart, but 19-year-old Lachlan Turner put the Waratahs in
the lead with a 60-metre solo try 10 minutes into the second
half.


Ten minutes later Liam Messam put the Chiefs back ahead 21-20
when he scored out wide following some sustained pressure.


With eight minutes left, Hewat kicked a penalty to give the
Waratahs the advantage once again at 23-21.


But with their season hanging in the balance, the Chiefs stormed
back and after almost five minutes crashing at the NSW line,
Tu'ipulotu found himself unmarked and dived over in the corner.

