

Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes he has one more big
innings left in the tournament as his side head into Saturday's
World Cup Final against Sri Lanka here at the Kensington Oval.


Australia are bidding for an unprecedented third straight World
Cup title and fourth overall.


They go into the showpiece match on the back of an extraordinary
run that has seen them go 28 games unbeaten in tournament
history, with 22 straight wins.


Ponting has led from the front in the Caribbean, his 502 runs at
an average of more than 71 surpassed only by Sri Lanka captain
Mahela Jayawardene and Australia opener Matthew Hayden, who leads
the tournament run list with 621.


"My batting, I've felt really good in every game I've played so
far. I've enjoyed the partnerships we've had at the top of the
order," said Ponting.


"That's what it's all about. Regardless of whether I get runs, I
know the other guys around me will get runs.


"For guys like me, who've been around a while this is the reason
why you still play the game, to be involved in contests like this
one.


"It doesn't get any bigger than a World Cup Final. A lot of our
players have been here and done this before. The know how in this
team to get the job done in big games is right there for us."


Ponting, 32, one of six survivors from the Australia side that
lifted the trophy four years ago, knows all about performing on
the big occasion.


During the 2003 final he scored a magnificent 140 not out, the
highest individual score in a World Cup Final, as Australia
thrashed India by 125 runs in Johannesburg.


His 121-ball innings featured four fours and an astonishing eight
sixes. "It's about doing it one more time," Ponting explained.
"Hopefully there's a big score out there for me."


Australia have yet to be involved in a tight game this World Cup
and in Wednesday's semi-final reduced South Africa to 27 for five
inside 10 overs.


"Whenever we've got our noses in front we haven't just sat back
and waited for things to happen, we've finished teams off pretty
quickly. It doesn't matter what the opposition do, as long as you
are challenging ourselves," said Ponting.


Australia bowling coach Troy Cooley tried to replicate the slingy
round-arm action of Sri Lanka spearhead quick Lasith Malinga
during practice Friday.


Malinga, who tormented New Zealand's top order in Sri Lanka's
81-run semi-final win on Tuesday in Jamaica, missed the Super
Eights match against Australia with an ankle ligament injury and
has yet to play a one-day international against the world
champions.


"I watched him pretty closely against New Zealand the other day,"
Ponting said. "He bowled very well with the new ball and had most
of their top-order batsmen in trouble."


Sri Lanka omitted key bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah
Muralitharan from their seven-wicket Super Eights defeat against
Australia in Grenada on April 16.


But Ponting, who revealed he felt a "little bit let down" by the
duo's absence, said Australia's victory still counted for
something.


"They had the first-choice batting side in and we were still able
to bowl them out for 226."


Saturday's match will be veteran Australia quick Glenn McGrath's
last before retirement.


The 37-year-old has set a new World Cup record of 25 wickets for
a tournament in the Caribbean and is now the competition's most
successful bowler of all-time with 70 wickets.


Many batsmen have tried to hit him off his length but so far
McGrath has had the upper hand.


"I guess you rely on experience," McGrath said. "I can see if the
batsman is coming at me.


"I've been lucky enough to pick up a wicket six times in my first
over. If they want to come at me that's fine, I feel I can
adjust."


Meanwhile, Ponting said he bore no-ill towards Jayawardene, after
the islanders' skipper kept him waiting at a photo-shoot with the
trophy on Thursday.


"By the sound of things he just got caught in traffic on the way
back from a game of golf. I'll take him at his word."

