

A morass of toxic ocean algae swamping sections of California's
coastline has sickened hundreds of birds, sea lions and dolphins,
environmentalists said Friday.


Animal protection agencies have reported a sharp increase in
fatalities and illnesses amongst wildlife because of the thick
"blooms" of algae that have appeared in the state's coastal
waters.


The International Bird Rescue Research Center in San Pedro
compared the environmental impact of the algae to an oil spill,
saying in a statement that several species of animals had been
affected.


"I have been doing this work for 35 years and I have never seen
anything like this as far as the number of species affected,
other than an oil spill," IBRRC director Jay Holcomb said.


"We have very serious concerns about what is happening to
seabirds, and how it may affect populations."


Animals are being sickened by domoic acid, a naturally-occurring
microscopic algae. Birds and sea mammals ingest the toxin by
consuming fish and shellfish which consume the algae.


Although algae blooms appear every year, environmentalists say
this year's crop is unusually thick and appears to be carrying
higher concentrations of the acid, making it deadlier than
normal.


Exact numbers of the animals were not immediately available, but
individual agencies reported dozens of cases.


Debbie McGuire, the director of the Wetland and Wildlife Care
Center in Huntington Beach, south of Los Angeles, told AFP her
center had seen 78 deaths from the algae since Sunday, with 11
more animals still being treated.


"We've had outbreaks before but it just seems to be a little bit
more potent this time around," McGuire said.


Most concern focused around California brown pelicans, an
endangered species, McGuire said. Symptoms of birds poisoned by
domoic acid were disorientation, head bobbing, she added.


"We had one report of a bird sitting in a car park of a
supermarket when of course they should be at the beach or in the
ocean," McGuire said.


Holcomb said domoic poisoning caused birds to have seizures while
flying, causing them to drop out of the sky. He said he believes
many seabirds suffer seizures at sea and drown, and that the
death toll could be far higher.


Emily Wing, a director at the Pacific Marine Mammal Center in
Laguna Beach, southern California, 50 miles (80 kilometers) south
of Los Angeles, said 22 animals, including a dolphin, had been
treated at the center.


"So far 11 of the animals brought into the center have died,"
Wing told AFP, adding that most of the cases involved pregnant
adult female sea lions.


"Because they are pregnant they are consuming more food, so they
have higher concentrations of the toxin in their system," she
said.


"In several cases it has been too late for us to treat them. A
few animals have died on the way here."


An outbreak of domoic-acid carrying algae in 2002 and 2003 in
California killed or sickened more than 1,000 sea lions and
around 50 dolphins, according to the National Marine Fisheries
Service.

