

The record reached by the euro against the dollar on Friday
sharpens attention on calls by the finalists in the French
presidential election for political dilution of the European
Central Bank's independence, analysts here say.


The euro surged to a record level of 1.3682 dollars in London,
eclipsing its previous high of 1.3666, reached on December 30,
2005.


The ECB's tightening of interest rates recently and the strength
of the euro are subjects of hot controversy in the French
election.


The two finalists, Segolene Royal for the Socialists and
rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy, want changes enabling EU governments
to influence the central bank's attitude to interest rates and
the exchange rate of the euro.


But many eurozone countries are less concerned. The German
economy, the biggest in Europe, appears robust enough to
withstand the strength of the euro. Its economy, hitherto largely
export-driven, is benefiting from rising domestic demand.


But for countries such as France and Italy, the strength of the
euro could be a problem, and politicians there are likely to be
strident in calling for measures to restrain the ECB and the
euro, Investec analyst David Page said.


Global Insight economist, Howard Archer, also believed that
pressure would rise in France for a campaign to contain the euro,
especially in view of the final round of the French presidential
campaign on May 6.


Archer commented last week that the French were "likely to be
particularly vociferous in a bit of posturing ahead of the
elections."


French politicians have long taken a lead in arguing that the ECB
should keep interest rates down to help stimulate growth and
boost employment, and to contain the rise of the euro which can
hit exporters.


From the origins of the Maastricht Treaty in the early 1990s
which set the framework for the eurozone and ECB, experts warned
of one potential flaw: this was that the text required the
central bank to guarantee price stability, meaning low inflation,
while also permitting EU governments a role in any international
foreign exchange rate agreements.


Economists generally agree that policy geared to specific targets
for currency rates, or growth, or unemployment, cannot also
target a specific inflation figure which, for the ECB, is a level
of up to 2.0 percent.


In the past 12 months the ECB has increased its short-term rates
several times from exceptionally low levels to contain
inflationary pressures in an unexpectedly robust eurozone
economy.


Growth and the rate increases, together with factors undermining
the dollar, have been behind the rise of the euro.


But the strength of the single currency has crimped French
exporters, making their exports less competitive in international
markets.


The ECB has flatly rejected political meddling, saying that
structural problems in national economies are a matter for
governments, and is likely to continue to defend its
independence, ECB watchers say.


ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet insists that he is "inflexibly
attached" to the principle of the ECB's independence which, he
says, is "essential" for the credibility of the euro.


The ECB stresses that Article 107 of the Maastricht Treaty states
that "neither the ECB, nor a national central bank, nor any
member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take
instructions from community institutions or bodies, from any
government of a member state or from any other body.


"The community institutions and bodies and the governments of the
member states undertake to respect this principle and not to seek
to influence the members of the decision-making bodies of the
ECB."


Trichet said in February: "That is the treaty. I am inflexibly
attached to the strict implmentation of the treaty. It is
essential for our credibility."


But the bank has repeatedly been under fire since taking over the
reins of monetary policy for the single currency area in 1999,
with one-time German finance minister Oskar Lafontaine attacking
it head-on.


Now Germany is blunt in its defence of the ECB's independence
which German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck said recently was
"sacrosanct" and Chancellor Angela Merkel says must be left
intact.


The ECB argues that long-term interest rates, which bear most on
business investment, are set by market forces according to the
bank's credibility in containing inflation with short-term rates.


The bank analyses foreign exchange rates only as a factor
affecting inflation, and warns that if markets suspected that
price stability were no longer its priority, they would push
long-term interest rates up to cover extra risks of inflation.


The treaty lays down links between the ECB, common economic
criteria and national economic policies, with the stated aim of
optimising convergence, growth and employment.


It says EU governments must treat their economic policy as a
matter of common interest and, together with the subsequent
Stability and Growth Pact, lays down vital domestic targets, on
debt and budget deficits for example.


However, the ECB, subject to the priority of price stability,
should also take account of general economic policy, it says.

