

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern is to address the joint houses
of the British parliament on May 15, a Downing Street spokesman
said Friday -- a major honour bestowed on few world leaders.


Ahern will become the first Irish premier to address a joint
sitting of the unelected upper House of Lords and elected lower
House of Commons.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair issued the invite "to mark the
restoration of devolution to Northern Ireland on May 8," a
spokesman for Blair's office said.


Ahern said in a statement he was "greatly honoured".


"This very special invitation symbolises the new levels of
friendship, mutual respect and understanding that we are building
on and between these islands," he said.


"With agreement on Northern Ireland and the return of the
devolved arrangements of the Good Friday Agreement from May 8,
relations between Britain and Ireland have never been better."


The return of the Northern Ireland Assembly in Belfast follows
years of stop- start negotiations by the two premiers with the
leaders of British-ruled province's bickering Protestant and
Catholic factions.


Blair and Ahern are respectively the third and fourth longest-
serving leaders in the European Union. Both first took office in
1997.


But Blair is expected to step down within weeks and Ahern's
governing coalition are losing ground in opinion polls, just
weeks ahead of a general election in Ireland.


A lasting settlement in Northern Ireland will form a key part of
Blair's legacy -- and Ahern's if he loses power.


Only 31 world leaders have addressed the joint houses of
parliament since 1939.


The list includes presidents Nelson Mandela of South Africa,
Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton of the United States, Charles de
Gaulle and Jacques Chirac of France and Boris Yelsin of Russia,
who died this week.


Haile Salassie of Ethiopia, Soviet leaders Nikita Khruschev and
Mikhail Gorbachev, King Juan Carlos of Spain, former Israeli
premier Shimon Peres and Australian Prime Minister John Howard
have also addressed the joint houses.

