

Chechen rebels shot down a Russian military helicopter Friday,
killing 18 servicemen in renewed violence in Chechnya, Russian
news agencies quoted military officials as saying.


The Mi-8 helicopter came down over the Caucasus mountains in the
southern district of Shatoi during a battle with Chechen rebels,
Interfax and RIA Novosti news agencies said. They quoted unnamed
officials at the military's regional headquarters in the North
Caucasus.


"There was a special operation... in which federal forces clashed
with a group of bandits. Reinforcements were called in and three
defence ministry helicopters arrived. One helicopter, according
to preliminary data, was shot down while landing," RIA Novosti
quoted a headquarters source as saying.


Those killed comprised three air crew and 15 special forces
members, Interfax news agency reported, quoting an unnamed
military official.


The mayor of Shatoi, Zhamlai Khadashov, told AFP the helicopter
had been downed by Islamist rebels in a clash that left three
rebels dead, but did not confirm the number of casualties in the
helicopter.


"The helicopter was hit by the fighters. There are dead and
injured. I can't say how many because the area is encircled by
federal forces," Khadashov said.


But Chechen administration head Ramzan Kadyrov said he doubted
the loss of the helicopter was a result of rebel attack.


"According to the information given to me by the Shatoi law
enforcement agencies and the testimony of witnesses the
helicopter crashed due to a technical failure," he was quoted by
Interfax as saying.


A source in the Chechen security forces told RIA-Novosti an
operation was continuing to hunt down the attackers and prevent
them fleeing under cover of darkness.


If confirmed, the downing of a troop helicopter would mark one of
the most serious insurgent incidents in Chechnya in recent
months.


Russian forces have fought two wars in the last 12 years to crush
a separatist rebellion in Chechnya, a tiny mountainous territory
home to the Muslim Chechens.


The defence ministry has repeatedly voiced concern about how
rebel movements in Chechnya have been able to obtain
sophisticated surface-to-air-missiles.


An estimated 100,000 of Chechnya's one million people have been
killed in the confict and, according to official figures, some
10,000 Russian servicemen.

