

The surge in the euro to a record high against the dollar should
be a boon to eurozone consumers, who are likely to see their
purchasing power enhanced, and a burden to exporters trying to
compete on the world stage.


The single European currency surged to 1.3682 dollars in mid-
afternoon trading in London Friday, beating its previous high,
1.3666 dollars, reached on December 30, 2004.


A strong euro tends to hold down the price of imported goods,
notably of oil and gas imports denominated in dollars, but also
of consumer items such as Chinese T-shirts and Asian electronic
goods.


Eurozone businesses benefit from lower prices for essential
materials bought outside the zone. A company such as French group
Vivarte, for example, which imports textile products from South
America and Asia for sale in Europe, would look favorably on a
rising euro.


A strong currency, by making imports cheaper, also helps tame
inflation and  -- in principle -- should hold down interest
rates.


While the European Central Bank is expected to raise eurozone
borrowing costs a quarter of a point to 4.0 percent in June,
their level would still be well below the 5.25 percent benchmark
rate in the United States.


But on the other hand a rapidly appreciating euro would make
eurozone products more expensive and less competitive on overseas
markets and as such could threaten the eurzone's nascent economic
rebound.


At the same time, within the 13-nation zone itself, local
products would appear "comparatively more expensive than imported
goods," thus weakening the performance of some companies on their
home territory, according to economist Marc Touati.


"When the euro increases in value by 10 percent a year, it shaves
0.5 percentage points off growth (in the eurozone) and 0.6 in
France," he said.


Some analysts have pointed out that despite a more than
10-percent rise in the euro in the past year, Germany has
remained a leading exporting nation while Belgium, Ireland and
the Netherlands are all enjoying trade surpluses.


But Touati argued that "capital goods account for 45 percent of
German exports" -- investment products that are less sensitive
than consumer items to price fluctuations.


In addition, Germany has been better able than its eurozone
partners to cope with a rise in the euro because of "wage
moderation and a drop in social charges," along with a hike this
year in value added tax, noted Matthieu Plane of the French
research group OFCE.


In general, while some sectors, such as construction or services,
are relatively immune to the euro's appreciation, tourism,
aeronautics, automobile, chemical and luxury enterprises are
liable to feel the pain.


However, big changes in exchange rates do not necessarily have a
mechanical and uniform effect on relative prices.


This is because some exporters from the eurozone may be so
strongly placed on export markets that they can carry the price
increases on their products in local currency. Or they might be
so keen to maintain market share that they hold their local
prices steady, at the cost of reduced profit margins in euros.


Similarly some producers selling into the eurozone might increase
their prices in local money, and make more profit equivalent to
the fall of the euro.

