

President George W. Bush warned Democrats Friday not to "test my
will" by passing new legislation on a US troop pullout from Iraq
after he vetoes a bill passed by Congress this week.


Bush invited Democrats and leaders of his Republican Party to
discuss a way out of their standoff soon after he strikes down
the bill, which ties 124 billion dollars in war funds to a
withdrawal that would start on October 1.


"And if the Congress wants to test my will as to whether or not
I'll accept the timetable for withdrawal, I won't accept one," he
told a news conference at his retreat in Camp David, Maryland,
alongside Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


"So if they want to try again that which I have said was
unacceptable, then of course I'll veto it," Bush said.


"But I hope it doesn't come to that. I believe we can work a way
forward.  And I think we can come to our senses and make sure
that we get the money to the troops in a timely fashion," he
said.


Bush could veto the legislation early next week with the aim of
quickly getting a new bill on his desk acceptable to both sides
as soon as possible to provide the money for military operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The bill, which passed 218-208 in the House on Wednesday and
51-46 in the Senate on Thursday and has a non-binding target of
completing the pullout by March 31, 2008, comes as public support
for the four-year-old war has plunged.


The bill is also on its way to Bush's desk as more troops deploy
to Iraq as part of his temporary troop "surge" plan to quell
violence in Iraq, a strategy that will increase the number of US
soldiers from 145,000 to 160,000.


Iraq was a central theme of the first presidential debate
Thursday between eight Democrats vying to succeed Bush, more than
18 months before the November 2008 election.


"Congress has voted, as of today (Thursday), to end this war. And
now we can only hope that the president will listen," Democratic
frontrunner Senator Hillary Clinton said during the debate in
Orangeburg, South Carolina.


Her Senate colleague and chief rival for the Democratic Party's
nomination, Barack Obama, criticized the "disastrous conditions
that we've seen on the ground in Iraq."


"The American people have said, Republicans and Democrats, that
it's time to end this war," Obama said.


Back in Washington, Democratic leaders, who took control of
Congress in January after elections marked by voter anger at the
war, urged Bush to change course in Iraq.


Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the bill "sets us on a new
course, away from a civil war with no end in sight toward a
responsible phased redeployment that holds Iraqis accountable."


"If the president refuses to change direction, America risks
being bogged down in Iraq for years, not months," Reid said
Thursday.


"For a president that took the country to war under false
pretenses, he now needs the courage to admit his policies have
failed and work with us to bring the war to a responsible end.
This bill gives him a path forward."


The bill could reach Bush on May 1, the fourth anniversary of his
2003 speech on the deck of the US aircraft carrier USS Abraham
Lincoln, in which he declared "victory" in Iraq under a giant
"Mission Accomplished" banner.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino suggested that Bush's
Democratic critics had dragged out the legislative process in
order to tie it to the speech, calling that a "ridiculous PR
(public relations) stunt" and "the height of cynicism."


The "Mission Accomplished" speech, in which he declared "major
combat" over, has dogged Bush as the symbol of what critics
charge is his excessive optimism about the conflict.

