

Wall Street shares traded mixed Friday as investors shook off
early jitters sparked by a weaker-than-expected reading on US
economic growth.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was virtually flat at 1405 GMT,
rising a fractional 0.65 points to 13,106.15 a day after hitting
a fresh all-time closing high.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 5.21 points (0.20
percent) to 2,559.67 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
500 index shed 1.52 points (0.10 percent) to 1,492.73.


The market action came just after the government reported US
gross domestic product (GDP) growth cooled dramatically to a 1.3
percent pace in the first quarter of 2007, highlighting concerns
about a weakening US economy.


"The first-quarter real GDP report has served as a reminder that
the good earnings trends for the first quarter may not continue
into the second and third quarter," said Dick Green, analyst at
Briefing.com.


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said he expected
the record- breaking rally to resume once the market absorbs the
disappointing economic news.


"The bottom line is that the economy does not appear to be
heading into a recession, as many feared a couple months ago, but
has definitely slowed," he said.


Corporate earnings so far "have exceeded analysts' expectations,
thus being a big contributor to the current market rally."


Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said the
economic news may not be as bad as it seems, with most of the
weakness concentrated in the housing sector, and consumer
spending still strong.


"Consumers continued to hold up the economy. With housing sales
slowing, consumers have more money to devote to improving the
homes they own and purchasing automobiles, furniture, clothing,
and meals in restaurants," he said.


Additionally, he said the weak dollar may draw in more foreign
capital to the market and helps corporate earnings.


"A weaker dollar makes US equities a particular bargain for
foreign investors, especially in Europe," Morici said, as the
euro jumped to a historic high of 1.3682 dollars seconds after
the US GDP release.


"Large US multinationals earning significant shares of their
profits in Asia will prove a great play for Europeans who sit on
strong euros and pounds but have few good investment options at
home."

