

Former CIA director George Tenet says in a new book that there
was no serious debate within the US administration ahead of the
2003 invasion of Iraq, according to US media reports Friday.


Tenet, who led the Central Intelligence Agency in the runup to
and after the war launched to eliminate the alleged threat of
Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, also says he was scapegoated
by the White House when no WMD were found in Iraq.


In his book "At the Center of the Storm," to be released Monday,
Tenet defends his own role in the decision to attack Iraq while
blasting Vice President Dick Cheney and other US officials, the
New York Times reported Friday after it obtained a copy of the
book.


"There was never a serious debate that I know of within the
administration about the imminence of the Iraqi threat," Tenet
writes.


He also said, according to the Times, that the administration of
President George W. Bush never undertook a "serious discussion"
about the option of containing Iraq without resorting to an
attack.


In the book and in an interview with CBS News to be broadcast
Sunday, Tenet also lashes out at Cheney and others for citing his
use of the basketball term "slam dunk" -- suggesting
incontestable -- to describe the intelligence used to justify the
invasion of Iraq.


Tenet says he did use the phrase in a White House discussion
ahead of the war, but only about how to make the case to the US
people about the need to send US troops to Iraq.


However, he said, administration officials told writer Bob
Woodward that he said "It's a slam-dunk case" for the CIA's
evidence that Hussein had stockpiled WMD.


After Woodward wrote that in his 2004 book "Plan of Attack," the
blame for the failure of intelligence ahead of the war was
directed straight at Tenet, with Cheney repeatedly citing Tenet's
phrase in interviews and speeches.


"Rather than acknowledge responsibility, the administration's
message was: Don't blame us. George Tenet got us into this mess,"
Tenet writes.

