

Four militant bomb-makers were killed Friday in a blast at a
house in a Pakistani tribal area bordering Afghanistan, officials
said, while giving different accounts of the cause.


The military said the men were killed by their own explosives but
local officials said missiles hit the walled compound at Saidgai
village in North Waziristan district, a known Al-Qaeda and
Taliban hotspot.


"They had stored explosives in the compound and four people died
because of an explosion caused by the ammunition they had dumped
there," chief military spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad told
AFP.


An army official said on condition of anonymity that there were
two blasts around 3:30 am. "These militants were making bombs and
they exploded, killing three people on the spot and wounding two
others, one of whom died later."


However two local sources including an intelligence official said
four missiles were launched from across the border at the
compound. They did not say who had fired them.


The officials said the destroyed building belonged to a religious
leader called Maulvi Noor Mohammad Wali, who also runs an
adjacent Islamic school that was damaged in the blast.


"Four missiles targeted a group of people sleeping in the open in
the verandah of the compound," one of the local officials said.


Two of the victims were identified as local tribesmen with
suspected militant links while there was no information about the
two others, he said.


Asked if any senior Taliban or Al-Qaeda militants were either
killed or targeted in the attack, the official said: "So far we
don't have any information about the presence of a high-value
target."


In late 2005 a top Egyptian Al-Qaeda explosives expert, Hamza
Rabia, was killed in a blast in North Waziristan.


Pakistan insisted that he and four others died while they were
working on improvised bombs but US press reports said they were
killed by a missile fired by a US Central Intelligence Agency
Predator drone.


Another US missile strike in January 2006 in the Bajaur tribal
region narrowly missed Al-Qaeda's deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahiri
and killed up to 18 people, officials have said.


Saidgai itself was the scene of a Pakistani air raid in March
2006 that killed 40 militants and sparked a violent uprising in
the region.


North Waziristan became a haven for militants who fled the US-led
invasion of Afghanistan that toppled the Taliban in late 2001.


Pakistani forces launched several bloody operations but signed
peace deals with insurgents in North Waziristan in 2006 and South
Waziristan in 2005, prompting expressions of concern from NATO,
US and Afghan officials.

