

Three Islamic militants captured by police in the Indian capital
were working for the banned group Lashkar-e-Taiba believed to
have masterminded blasts that killed 62 people in the city in
2005, police said on Friday.


Police made the statement as they stepped up security at shopping
malls and the city's metro, used daily by 2.2 million commuters,
to guard against any possible attack attempts following the
arrests late Thursday.


"There is a possibility some people of the module we have busted
still exist and we have to track them down to avoid any possible
fallout from the arrests," New Delhi anti-terrorism chief Karnail
Singh said.


The three heavily armed suspected militants were arrested at a
popular crafts market in the heart of the city, a favourite
shopping spot for foreign tourists.


The suspects were captured with two kilograms (4.4 pounds) of
military-type explosives, grenades and detonators, police said.


Singh said two of the rebels were from Indian Kashmir where
Islamic separatists have been waging a deadly fight against New
Delhi's rule since 1989.


The ringleader, Abu Qasim, was a Pakistani, he said.


"Qasim was trained by the Lashkar-e-Taiba and was sent to Delhi
via Nepal," Singh said.


Singh said the three were linked to Lashkar which is blamed by
India for the October 29, 2005 serial blasts that claimed 62
lives in New Delhi.


Lashkar is among the militant groups fighting Indian rule in
disputed Kashmir.


In February, 68 people died in the firebombing of a train
travelling from India to Pakistan.


The blasts killed mainly Muslims who were returning home to
Pakistan on the cross-border "Friendship Express" that links the
nuclear-armed South Asian rivals which have fought three wars,
two over Kashmir, since independence in 1947.


The train attack appeared to be aimed at undermining the stop-go
peace process between India and Pakistan launched in 2004,
analysts said.


The Indian government has said a lasting resolution of its
longstanding enmity with Pakistan hinges on a stop to all cross-
border terrorist attacks on  Indian targets.


Pakistan denies any involvement in militant attacks on Indian
soil.

