

New Taliban violence across Afghanistan left a US soldier dead in
the west Friday after a district governor and his police chief
were gunned down in the southeast.


Separately a detective and his brother were shot dead in the
eastern province of Khost and the US-led coalition said it had
killed five militants in Zabul in the southeast suspected of
smuggling weapons and planning attacks.


Officials announced meanwhile that four policemen and six
militants were killed in a battle Wednesday in the southern
province of Uruzgan.


The coalition soldier was "killed in action when coalition forces
made contact with enemy fighters while conducting a combat
patrol" in Herat province, the force said in a statement.


"Coalition forces employed a variety of combined arms to include
close air support to destroy and repel enemy insurgents during
the firefight," the statement said.


A three-hour battle erupted when about 50 Taliban fighters
attacked soldiers in the province's Shindand district, district
governor Khudaidad Arfani said.


He said air strikes killed at least one Taliban.


More than 40 foreign soldiers have been killed in action in
Afghanistan this year, most of them from the United States which
has by far the most troops helping the Afghan forces assert
authority over militants and criminals.


In the volatile eastern province of Ghazni meanwhile officials
announced the administration and police chiefs of Giro district
were killed with three police guards when they were ambushed a
reported 100-150 Taliban late Thursday.


Ghazni governor Mirajudin Pattan rejected a Taliban statement
that the rebels had captured the district, saying the ambush was
not even in the centre of Giro and occurred while the men were
travelling elsewhere.


"There were definitely Taliban casualties but we cannot give you
an exact number," he said. "This is just Taliban propaganda that
they have taken control of the district. This is not true."


The Taliban have briefly captured several districts in a campaign
that has steadily gained intensity since it was launched after
the ultra-conservative movement was booted from government in
late 2001.


But Afghan authorities and their allies in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and coalition say
the rebels are easily driven out of the areas they occupy -- all
of which have been remote and under-policed.


A Taliban spokesman said meanwhile the movement would announce by
noon (0730 GMT) Saturday its decision on the fate of two French
aid workers and three of their Afghans colleagues captured three
weeks ago in southwestern Nimroz.


The demands include that France pull out its 1,000 troops serving
with ISAF and that Kabul free Taliban prisoners, as it did for
the release last month of an Italian journalist whose Afghan
driver and translator were beheaded.


Amid concerns for the safety of the five, French Foreign Minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy said in Paris that his country did not plan
to stay in Afghanistan "long-term."


The Taliban insurgency, which makes heavy use of suicide and
roadside bombings, was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 1,000 people have lost their lives to the violence this
year, according to an AFP tally, with the security forces and
militants stepping up their campaigns in a bitter battle that is
wearing down a population that has suffered around three decades
of war.

