

The European single currency, which reached a record high of
1.3682 dollars on Friday and has also been at peaks against the
yen, has an important impact on the lives of consumers and
businesses in the 13 countries that use it.


Here are the main advantages and disadvantages of the record
euro:


ADVANTAGES - BETTER PURCHASING POWER


- Imported goods become cheaper, whether they be Japanese and
South Korean cameras and computers, Chinese toys, textiles and
appliances and fruits and vegetables from Africa, South America
and the Middle East.


- Holidays become cheaper in far-off countries, including the
United States, Asia and countries where the currency follows the
development of the dollar.


- Energy prices drop for consumers and businesses because oil and
gas are priced in dollars.


- Businesses in the eurozone find themselves in a stronger
position to snap up foreign competitors.


- Inflation is brought under control because the prices of
imported goods drop automatically.


- The European Central Bank might be encouraged to think twice
before rising its main interest rate, as expected, as the rising
euro will bring prices under control.


DISADVANTAGES - EXPORTS ARE HIT


- Exports from the eurozone become more expensive in
international markets, particularly compared to products from
countries with weak currencies such as the Japanese yen and
Chinese yuan. This hits especially small industrial companies
that do not have the means to cover themselves against strong
exchange rate variations.


- Loss of market share. Luxury goods, the aviation industry
(notably European aircraft maker Airbus), tourism, cars and
chemicals will be particularly affected. Only countries like
Germany, whose equipment has a good reputation, will cope as
customers are prepared to pay more for the "made in Germany"
mark.


- Relocation. Businesses may be tempted to move manufacturing
outside the eurozone in order to keep down costs and remain
competitive on the world market, at the risk of job losses.


- Locally made goods within the eurozone can become more
expensive than imported products, resulting in lost market share
for European companies in their home markets.

