

Former England captain Lawrence Dallaglio has been left out of
the Wasps side to face Leicester in a Premiership encounter on
Saturday that represents a dress rehearsal for next month's
European Cup final.


Dallaglio, 34, has been rested by rugby director Ian McGeechan
with rising star James Haskell deputising while England flanker
Joe Worsley takes over as skipper.


Wasps, who have won the Premiership three times, need a win at
Leicester if they are to have any chance of securing a top four
finish and a place in the end-of- season play-offs which decide
the champion.


Leicester, currently second in the table behind Gloucester, will
be assured of a play-off place if they win.


Former Scotland boss McGeechan said: "We have had four massive
games in the last month, and this weekend is the same again. They
don't get much bigger than playing Leicester at Leicester.


"The squad is in good shape though, and we are in a position to
be selecting from strength for this game."


Leicester will field more than two-thirds of the team that beat
Llanelli Scarlets in their European Cup semi-final last weekend.


West country rivals Gloucester and Bristol, who meet at Ashton
Gate tomorrow after Kingsholm redevelopment work caused
Gloucester to find an alternative venue, know the winners will be
at home in the play-offs.


And for Bristol, tipped as strong relegation candidates just
eight months ago, it would represent a stunning achievement.


Head coach Richard Hill said: "If my maths is correct, if we beat
Gloucester we can clinch a home play-off tie.


"That is a big carrot for us, a huge incentive. To be a home side
in the play- offs would be a huge prize, and anything could
happen from there."


Gloucester's head coach Dean Ryan underlined the significance of
the clash for both sides.


"There is a significant amount on this match for both teams. We
were exceptionally disappointed with aspects of our defeat at
Newcastle two weeks ago, and I expect to see a reaction from
that.


"When you look back at the last 12 months, it is possible to see
how far this group has come. I think it is testament to the squad
we are building we are in this position and we now need to take
that into knockout rugby.


Newcastle, unbeaten at home for almost six months, will be
without rib cartilage injury victim Jonny Wilkinson against Bath
at Kingston Park. Victory for Wilkinson's club would give them a
chance of European Cup rugby next season if the tournament is
spared an Anglo-French boycott.

