

Mstislav Rostropovich may have been only four years old when his
family left the Azerbaijani capital Baku for Moscow, but the
legendary cellist never forgot his roots in this ancient city on
the shores of the Caspian Sea.


Rostropovich, who died Friday aged 80, returned many times over
his extraordinary life to Baku, where he first learned to play
the piano on his mother's knee.


In a museum created in the small apartment where he was born a
prize exhibit is a black-and-white photograph of the infant
Rostropovich wrapped in a blanket, lying in his father's cello
case.


Celebrating his 70th birthday here in 1997, Rostropovich called
Baku "a mystical city" and praised its diversity and long
cultural traditions.


And though he only lived here a short time, the people of Baku
proudly claim him as one of their own.


"He was a great man and a great patriot of Baku," said Shoyla
Heydarova, the director of the museum in his honour, the
Rostropovich Home Museum.


"He may have been famous all over the world, but he never forgot
where he came from," she said tearfully after learning of the
musician's death.


Rostropovich was born in Baku in 1927 after his father Leopold, a
cellist, and mother Sofia, a pianist, arrived here from Russia in
1925 to teach at the city's newly opened music academy.


An ancient stop on the Silk Road trading route between Europe and
China, Baku had become one of the Soviet Union's most
cosmopolitan cities thanks to a turn- of-century oil boom that
had lured a wide range of peoples.


As well as Azeris, it was home to many Russians, Jews, Armenians
and Georgians.


Heydarova, who met the famed musician many times, said the
culture of the city had a deep impact on Rostropovich.


"They say that personalities are formed in the very early years
of life and I believe that it was here in Baku that Rostropovich
learned some of his most important qualities -- his openness, his
tolerance, it all came from here," she said.


After launching his career in Moscow, Rostropovich returned to
Baku in 1971 to trace his roots. After finding his birthplace, he
performed five free concerts in the city, attended by thousands
and to great acclaim.


"It was like a national holiday," Heydarova recalled.


After he fled the Soviet Union in 1974, Rostropovich could not
travel again to Azerbaijan until it became independent with the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.


But he then returned often, giving dozens of performances and
luring many famed musicians to join him in concerts in the city.
Following in his father's footsteps, he also spent a week every
year giving free masterclasses to cello and violin students at
the State Musical Academy.


"He was very generous and was of enormous value to the
development of Azerbaijan's musical culture," said Farhad
Badalbeyli, the rector of the State Musical Academy. "He always
saw Azerbaijan as his native land. He very much loved Baku and
the people of Baku loved him in return."


Rostropovich also funded a range of charity works in Azerbaijan,
including a programme to immunize children from diseases.


He was heavily involved in the creation of the Rostropovich Home
Museum and donated dozens of heirlooms and family pictures for
its opening in 2002, including the photograph of himself lying in
his father's cello case.

