

Afghanistan's Taliban movement said it would announce Saturday
its decision on the fate of two French aid workers captured with
three Afghans more than three weeks ago.


"Tomorrow before noon (0730 GMT) we will make a decision,"
spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Friday.


Another source within the extremist movement said on condition of
anonymity there was a possibility that the French woman among the
group could be released within a couple of days.


Ahmadi said earlier in the day that a deadline for the Taliban's
demands to be met in exchange for the five would expire on
Saturday.


The ultimatum was previously thought to end Friday after the
extremist group said April 20 it would give a week for France to
withdraw its 1,000 troops in Afghanistan with a NATO-led force
and to release Taliban prisoners.


As concerns grew about the fate of the five employees of Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children), French Foreign Minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy said French troops would not stay in
Afghanistan for the "long-term."


"There is no plan to continue occupying a country in the long-
term," said Douste-Blazy. "It goes against France's values of
respect for sovereignty, national independence and territorial
integrity."


On the hostages, he said: "We are doing everything in Kabul and
Paris to bring them home soon."


Ahmadi told AFP the five are "in good health."


"There has been no direct contact for negotiations so far. We
have nothing new," he said. On the demands, he said: "Nothing has
changed."


The movement's April 20 statement said that if the demands were
not met, its "position... about foreign prisoners was clear to
the world and (will) soon be applied."


The Taliban, who use many of the terror tactics employed by
militants in Iraq, have beheaded several Afghan hostages and some
foreigners -- most of them Indians and Turks involved in road
construction in the south.


The movement also claimed responsibility for the slaughter of a
British engineer in September 2005.


It threatened to kill Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo,
kidnapped early March this year, but released him in exchange for
five Taliban prisoners in a much-criticised deal that the
government said would never be repeated.


Mastrogiacomo's driver and interpreter were beheaded.


In a videotape message broadcast a week ago, the hostages --
snatched in the southwestern province of Nimroz April 3 -- said
they feared for their lives and urged the French government to
give in to the kidnappers' demands.


The kidnapping has attracted intense interest in France which
goes to the polls May 6 presidential run-off. Leading candidate
Nicolas Sarkozy said this week the long-term presence of French
troops in Afghanistan was not certain.


Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta said mid-April that
kidnapping risked becoming an "industry" for the rebels but
promised to use all "legitimate and possible" means to win the
release of two French aid workers.


There are thousands of foreign aid workers in Afghanistan, and
thousands more foreign troops, trying to help the fragile
government assert its authority and push forward a reconstruction
programme being held back by the insurgency.


The Taliban, driven from power by a US-led coalition in 2001 for
sheltering the Al-Qaeda network behind the September 11 attacks,
target mainly troops and government workers in an increasingly
intense campaign backed by foreign "jihadists."


The extremists, whose 1996-2001 government carried out scores of
public executions, distribute propaganda videos of their
beheadings.

