

Manchester United have sent Park Ji-Sung to the United States for
knee surgery to be carried out by the specialist who saved the
careers of Alan Shearer and Michael Owen.


Park is one of a number of Sir Alex Ferguson's squad who have
been forced onto the sidelines as the club's treble bid reaches
its climax.


But while the manager is optimistic about an imminent return of
Louis Saha, Nemaja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand, he concedes the
Korean winger's injury will rule out any chance of a return this
season.


Park suffered the knee injury in the final minute of United's
victory over Blackburn Rovers on April 1 and the club has now
been forced to enlist the help of world renowned surgeon Dr
Richard Steadman in a bid to diagnose the full extent of the
problem.


Ferguson hopes that Park's transatlantic visit will increase the
possibility of the player making an early return at the start of
next season.


"There's no improvement in his knee injury and we've sent him to
see some other specialists but we now just have to get him to the
best," Ferguson said.


"There was an option to send him to Sweden or America and we
decided to send him to the States to see Richard Steadman in
Colorado.


"There was no clear reason for the injury and we couldn't get to
the bottom of it. So we decided we should send him to the best in
the world."


Saha will travel with Ferguson's squad to Everton this weekend
after recovering from a niggling hamstring problem and will be
named among the substitutes if he shows no reaction to training.


Vidic and Ferdinand will not make the trip to Goodison Park
although Ferguson is hopeful the centre-back pair will be back in
contention for next Wednesday's Champions League semi-final
second leg against AC Milan.


Vidic is recovering from a broken collar bone while Ferdinand has
been troubled by a groin strain but Ferguson said: "Nemanja is
doing great training now and he goes for his scan on Monday and
if that shows that he is clear then it is decision time because
it would be a risk to play him in Milan. It will depend on who we
have available after Everton.


"Rio won't play tomorrow but hopefully he will be ready for
Wednesday."


Skipper Gary Neville remains a major concern with his ankle
injury responding slowly to treatment although Ferguson has not
yet written off the defender's season.


"There is an improvement," he added. "We have put a boot on his
foot. I don't know whether we have done too much with him but
there was a bit of swelling last week. We just have to map out
the right road of recovery for him.


"But I think we have the freshness of (Patrice) Evra back in
which is good. I left Alan Smith out on Tuesday so he is fresh
for tomorrow.


"Louis Saha will be travelling with us, he could be on the bench.
Hopefully Vidic and Rio Ferdinand are getting better and will
give me a bit of freshness that we need. And hopefully we will
have a reasonable squad for the final push."

