

The US economy weakened dramatically in the first quarter to its
worst growth pace in four years, expanding by just 1.3 percent,
the government announced Friday.


A housing slump dragged the world's biggest economy down from its
annualized 2.5-percent clip in the prior quarter.


The first snapshot of 2007 growth, which is likely to be revised
in coming months, dashed the hopes of most Wall Street analysts
who had anticipated growth of at least 1.8 percent.


Seconds after the report's release, the euro leapt to a record
high against the greenback of 1.3682 dollars as fears mounted
about America's economic vitality.


Wall Street's major share indexes, which have shot to record
peaks in recent days, opened mostly lower after the report.


"The GDP report shows slowing economic growth, but also that US
consumers are still the main drivers of growth in the US
economy," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers.


Analysts said the bulging US trade deficit as well as the housing
market downturn have conspired to hobble growth.


US exports fell 1.2 percent in the January-March quarter while
imports rose 2.3 percent, contributing to the weakest overall
growth pace since the first quarter of 2003.


Rising demand for imported goods can dent growth, especially if
it means that Americans, for example, are buying more foreign-
made cars than comparable models made in Detroit.


Housing investment was a major drag on growth, falling for the
sixth straight quarter, by 17 percent compared with a year
earlier.


But despite worries about consumer spending, which accounts for
the lion's share of economic growth, the report appeared to show
consumer resilience holding up.


Consumer spending rose 3.8 percent in the first quarter, helping
offset other weakening components, although spending slowed from
a 4.2 percent pace in the prior quarter.


Purchases of big-ticket durable goods like cars, washing machines
and televisions surged 7.3 percent.


Inflation signals in the report may concern the Federal Reserve,
however, as a key gauge of prices shot up 3.4 percent, compared
with a one percent gain in the final three months of 2006.


But core prices excluding food and energy were up just 2.2
percent.


The Fed has held its interest rates steady since June, and is
walking a policy tight rope as it seeks to sustain growth without
letting inflation get out of hand.


"There's not really anything in this report that assures a rate
cut in the second half of this year," said John Lonski, chief
economist at Moody's Investor Services.


The US central bank's benchmark short-term interest rate is now
at 5.25 percent. The Fed will next meet on May 9.

