

Some 4,000 people protested in Bangkok Friday against Thailand's
military-backed government, which came to power after a September
coup that ousted premier Thaksin Shinawatra.


Defying rain, the crowd of mostly middle-aged men and women
gathered at Bangkok's Sanam Luang plaza for the demonstration
organised by allies of Thaksin, who has remained in self-exile
abroad since the coup.


"Since the coup, our economy has been going downhill," a male
protester shouted from a makeshift stage at the plaza, while some
1,000 policemen stood guard.


Police estimated the crowd at 4,000, while rally organisers could
not be reached for their estimate.


The peaceful protest was held as the army-installed government
comes under increasing criticism over a number of policy miscues,
including its economic management and an escalating insurgency in
the Muslim-majority south.


Pojana Thairattana, a 56-year-old office worker, said her
family's restaurant business had suffered since the coup, which
toppled the business-savvy Thaksin's twice-elected government.


"I am here to show the junta that many people don't support this
government. Nothing really has improved since the coup," Pojana
said. "I want Thaksin to come back because he has done so well
for the economy."


Hit by post-coup political worries and depressed consumer
confidence, Thailand's economy is seen rising 3.8-4.8 percent in
2007, the lowest growth in six years.


A 53-year-old office worker, who only gave his nickname Lek, said
army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont, a former
general, should resign to restore democracy.


"I think Surayud and all other military leaders should resign. I
don't support Thaksin but removing him in the coup was not a
right thing," Lek said.


"People are not dumb, but the government has treated us like we
know nothing," he said.


Analysts have warned that economic frustration could trigger mass
demonstrations against the junta. Business leaders have urged the
government to take action to shore up the sagging economy.


The protest movement is also beginning to create an odd coalition
of allies, with some pro-democracy groups who last year
demonstrated against Thaksin now joining forces with his allies
in protesting against the junta, they said.

