

World crude prices fell Thursday after the OPEC cartel maintained
its production quota, arguing that global levels of supply are
healthy.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, lost 61 cents to close at 57.55 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for April delivery
dipped eight cents to settle at 60.98 dollars a barrel. The
contract expired at the close.


"It may be just a little relief (in the market) in terms of
hearing OPEC roll over the quotas," Global Insight analyst Simon
Wardell said.


The powerful Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries,
which supplies more than one-third of global crude, opted to
leave its daily output quota unchanged at 25.8 million barrels at
talks in Vienna.


"The market is stable, the market is healthy, we do not need to
touch it (output) at this time," OPEC secretary general Abdullah
al-Badri told a press conference after the ministerial meeting.


Oil prices have veered between big gains and losses in recent
weeks, mirroring turbulence on global stock markets caused partly
by concern about US economic weakness.


On Thursday ahead of the production announcement, crude futures
easily topped OPEC's unofficial 60-dollar target level in London
trade. They showed limited reaction following the output
decision.


The 12-nation cartel -- which had cut production at its two
previous meetings in October and December -- decided against an
explicit output announcement in its official written statement.


Instead, the cartel used its statement to discuss market
volatility.


"Although all indicators clearly show that the market remains
well-supplied with crude oil ... overall oil market volatility is
likely to continue," OPEC said.


In its monthly report published on Thursday, OPEC said that world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007 from the level last
year, matching its forecast in January and February.


The oil market found some support from a steadier performance
across global stock markets, with European and Asian indices
clawing back ground on Thursday, while Wall Street was also up.


Calyon analyst Mike Wittner said "it's possible the (energy)
markets are reacting to the rebound in equity markets."

