

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice voiced US concern over recent
arrests of dissidents in Vietnam during a meeting here Thursday
with the communist state's foreign minister, her spokesman said.


Pham Gia Khiem, who is also a deputy prime minister, met Rice at
her State Department office as part of a six-day trip to prepare
for visits by Vietnam's president and prime minister later this
year.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said human rights
issues were "at the top of our agenda" during Thursday's meeting,
which also touched on trade and Southeast Asian regional matters.


While asserting that Vietnam had made "some advances" on human
rights and religious freedoms in recent years, McCormack said
there was "real concern" over some detentions in the country.


The US-based Human Rights Watch last week accused Vietnam of
launching "one of the worst crackdowns on peaceful dissidents in
20 years" after authorities arrested two Hanoi activists and a
Catholic priest.


The group said Vietnam had been "emboldened" to act against its
opponents after achieving a long-sought goal of joining the World
Trade Organization in January and hosting an Asia-Pacific summit
last November.


It also pointed to recent police moves against other free speech
activists, members of the banned Unified Buddhist Church of
Vietnam, independent Protestant churches and the United Workers-
Farmers Organization of Vietnam.


"Vietnam has now taken its place on the world economic stage, but
its human rights record lags far behind," Sophie Richardson,
deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement.


In its latest annual human rights report issued last week, the
State Department rated Vietnam's record as "unsatisfactory,"
though its report on religious freedoms in September said Hanoi
had made "enormous progress" in ending restrictions on worship.


President Nguyen Minh Triet is expected later this year to become
Vietnam's first post-war head of state to visit the United
States.


The former enemy nations have moved to restore ties since their
war ended with the fall of Saigon in 1975. Washington lifted a
trade embargo in 1994, and bilateral trade is expected to gross
12 billion dollars this year.


US President George W. Bush visited Vietnam, now Southeast Asia's
fastest growing economy, in November for bilateral talks and to
attend an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit in
Hanoi.


Khiem, who travelled wth top officials from the ministries of
transport, science and technology, telecommunications and
education, will also meeting US business leaders and lawmakers
during his visit.

