

The Dutch government has lost a lawsuit aimed at recovering a
ransom paid to free a relief worker who was kidnapped in Russia,
the medical aid group which employed the man said Thursday.


Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders, MSF) said The
Hague had been seeking reimbursement in a Swiss court of 770,000
euros (1.02 million dollars) out of one million paid for the
release of Dutch citizen Arjan Erkel in 2004.


Erkel was abducted in the Russian republic of Dagestan, near
Chechnya in August 2002 while on an aid mission and held for 20
months.


A ransom of one million euros was sought and MSF reportedly paid
230,000 euros while the Dutch foreign ministry raised 770,000.


"The Dutch government's case was rejected completely," the
director general of MSF's Swiss branch, Christian Captier, told
journalists.


The Dutch ministry of foreign affairs confirmed the ruling and
added that a counter claim by MSF also had been denied by the
Swiss judge.


MSF officials said they were relieved by the court's decision.


"It was not a question of money," Captier said, adding that the
ruling helped to "highlight the hypocrisy of the Dutch
government."


"It's the first time ever that a democratically-elected
government has taken legal action against an international
humanitarian organisation to recover money used to pay a ransom."


The lawsuit was launched in 2004 in a court in Geneva because
Erkel was technically employed by the Swiss branch of MSF.


The Hague claimed the ransom money was only a loan. In a counter
claim MSF then asked for the Dutch government to reimburse the
230,000 euros it paid.


Both the Dutch government and MSF have insisted that they never
pay ransoms  to kidnappers to prevent their aid workers from
becoming likely kidnap targets.


In the end the Swiss judge rejected the Dutch request.


The Dutch government was also ordered to pay 70,000 Swiss francs
(43,750 euros) towards MSF's legal fees, the organisation said.


"The Dutch government is saddened by this ruling and remains of
the opinion that the money was a loan," the foreign ministry in
The Hague said.


"The ministry will study the ruling and consider if an appeal
will be lodged," it added.

