

A rout on global equity markets sparked by fears of a meltdown in
the US housing market was checked Thursday with share prices in
the United States, Europe and Asia posting solid gains.


On Wall Street the Dow Jones Industrial average, after climbing
into positive territory late in the trading day Wednesday,
extended its gains to close up 26.28 points (0.22 percent) at
12,159.68.


The tech-dominated Nasdaq edged up 6.96 points (0.29 percent) to
2,378.70. The broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 added 5.11
points (0.37 percent) to end at 1,392.28.


Earlier, European exchanges snapped three-straight days of heavy
losses and closed higher after Asian markets had likewise bounced
back.


Analysts in New York said investors were encouraged that the Dow
held above 12,000 on Wednesday after an early slide that
triggered concerns about a fresh global collapse.


"Although we expect more market volatility in coming days, we
suspect the worst of the current correction is behind us and
buyers will slowly come out of their foxholes and support the
market at current price levels," predicted Fred Dickson at DA
Davidson.


Lingering concerns about the US housing market, specifically
failures in the risky "subprime" mortgage sector, appeared to be
pushed to the back burner for now.


"Slowing earnings growth is a bigger problem in our mind than the
fallout from increasing subprime loan delinquencies and
bankruptcies," Dickson said.


Michael Davies, analyst at the Sucden brokerage in London, said:
"Equities were oversold in the past sessions, leaving many stocks
looking cheap and investors rushed into buying."


The current global turmoil was sparked by a heavy selloff for
Chinese stocks in late February, which combined with fears of US
economic weakness to send investors scurrying for cover.


But also underpinning Thursday's gains, economists remained
optimistic about prospects for Asian economies, driven by fast-
growing China and India, dealers said.


European exchanges powered ahead, with the London FTSE 100 index
surging 2.21 percent to close at 6,133.20 points. In Paris the
CAC 49 jumped 1.77 percent to 5,389.85 while in Frankfurt the Dax
added 2.14 percent to end the day at 6,585.61.


Tokyo led the Asian markets up but ended off its highs, with the
Nikkei-225 index adding 1.10 percent after Wednesday's 2.92
percent tumble.


Chinese share prices closed 1.56 percent higher after declining
nearly two percent on Wednesday following a raft of economic data
that raised concerns that regulators would have to take new
measures to cool economic growth.


Other Asian markets also rebounded. Hong Kong firmed 0.70
percent, Sydney won back 1.93 percent, Taipei added 1.66 percent
and Seoul put on 1.39 percent.


"Investors breathed a brief sigh of relief after seeing a rebound
on Wall Street and bought back shares," said Masatoshi Sato,
senior strategist at Mizuho Investors Securities in Tokyo, after
US stocks rebounded Wednesday.


"The second wave of turmoil appears to have eased but investors
are still groping their way in the dark," he added.


Investors in the United States shrugged off a worse-than-expected
inflation report.


Ahead of the opening bell, the government said US wholesale
prices unexpectedly surged 1.3 percent in February.


The Labor Department's producer price index (PPI) was much higher
than Wall Street forecasts for a rise of 0.5 percent.


"At first glance, US producer prices are not painting a pretty
inflation picture," said Jennifer Lee at BMO Capital Markets, but
the "year-over-year trend held steady at 1.8 percent" and most of
the increase came from energy costs.

