

Russian and US officials on Thursday displayed the diplomatic
gulf between them over Kosovo's future status during a meeting in
Brussels.


Frank Wisner, the US special representative for Kosovo, said UN
envoy Martti Ahtisaari had "explored all the possibilities" on
the breakaway Serbian province's future.


However Russian ambassador to Belgium Vadim Lukov countered that
there was still room for a negotiated settlement.


After more than 13 months of UN-sponsored talks, Serbian and
ethnic Albanian officials failed to agree on future self-rule for
the disputed Serbian province and Ahtisaari said Saturday "the
potential of negotiations is exhausted".


The former Finnish president said he would finalize his proposal
and submit it to the UN Security Council, where Russia could use
its right of veto, for its review and final say "in the course of
the next month."


His plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-governance
to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to break away
from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia.


"Unfortunately, the events of the 1990s were so shocking that it
is impossible to imagine that the Kosovo Albanians could return
to Serb authority," Wisner told a Belgian senate committee.


"I don't think it is possible to find a common ground; it simply
doesn't exist," he added.


Ethnic Albanians and Serbs have a long history of hostility in
Kosovo, technically still a southern Serbian province run by a UN
mission since the end of a 1998-1999 war.


Russian ambassador Lukov told the meeting that the Helsinki
Principles, signed by Eastern and Western nations in the Cold War
days of 1975, enshrined that "borders should be changed only with
the explicit agreement of both parties".


"We don't want to be more Serb than the Serbs themselves, but we
feel that all avenues have not been explored and that diplomacy
must be given another chance," he said, reiterating the position
of Moscow, a traditional ally of Serbia.

