

The United States reacted cautiously Thursday to the formation of
a unity government grouping its Palestinian allies with radical
Islamists, saying it will wait to judge the new administration on
its actions.


"We're going to withhold any final judgment about the
government," said State Department spokesman Sean McCormack of
the power-sharing authority unveiled Thursday between the US-
backed Fatah party of Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and
Hamas, a group Israel and the West consider terrorists.


McCormack said Washington would not decide whether to recognize
the new government until it is clear "what exactly they are going
to base their governing decisions on -- what's their platform --
and then what actions they take".


"Until that time, we're just going to reserve comment," he said.


The US stance contrasted with Israel's quick and firm rejection
of the new government on the grounds that Hamas refuses to
renounce violence or recognize the Jewish state's right to exist.


US officials openly expressed surprise and dismay when Abbas, a
moderate Washington has strongly backed as a "partner for peace"
with Israel, signed up to the unity government agreement with
Hamas last month after an eruption of factional feuding between
the two sides left some 100 Palestinians dead.


Washington led an international aid and diplomatic boycott of the
Palestinian government after Hamas gained sole control over the
authority following elections early last year.


With its allies in the European Union, United Nations and Russia,
the US has insisted the boycott will remain in place against the
new government unless it meets three conditions: recognize
Israel, renounce violence and honor past peace accords between
Palestinians and the Jewish state.


Elements of the government platform leaked to the press indicated
it will fall short of the conditions, but will oblige the new
government to "respect" existing international agreements -- a
concession Abbas argues amounts to implicit recognition of Israel
by Hamas.


US officials have sidestepped questions on whether such implicit
recognition would satisfy Washington and its allies.


The new government is due to be approved by the Palestinian
legislative council on Saturday.


Under the power-sharing deal, Hamas will control nine cabinet
posts plus the prime ministership, while six will go to Fatah and
several others to independents, including the key foreign,
finance and interior ministries.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is due to travel to Israel
and the Palestinian territories late next week for talks with
both sides in light of the unity government.


Earlier, Israel rejected any contacts with the new Palestinian
authority.


"We will not recognize or deal with this government or with
members of this government and we expect the international
community to stand firm in their demand to adopt the three
principles," said spokeswoman Miri Eisen.

