

A "terrorist entrepreneur" of staggering ambition and killing
power, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, confessed September 11 mastermind,
is also America's most prized capture in its "war on terror."


Osama bin Laden's top terror strategist has confessed to plotting
the murderous 2001 attacks on New York and Washington, and 30
other global strikes and thwarted or abandoned plots, according
to a Pentagon transcript of his recent military hearing.


During the hearing at the Guantanamo Bay "war on terror" camp on
March 10, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, or "KSM" as he is known in
Washington, said he was "military operational commander" for all
Al-Qaeda foreign operations.


"I'm not making myself hero, when I said I was responsible for
this or that," he was quoted as saying in the transcript released
Wednesday, while reeling off a deadly resume of jihadist plots
and bloody attacks.


The September 11 strike, which killed nearly 3,000 people when
hijacked airliners were steered as missiles against US landmarks,
is his most successful terror coup.


But Mohammed claimed he was also the brains behind the 1993 World
Trade Center bombing, and the 2002 blast at a nightclub in Bali,
Indonesia, which killed 202 people, mostly foreign tourists.


KSM also apparently dreamed up a sheaf of other operations,
including the failed "Bojinka" operation to blow up US airliners
over the Pacific in 1995, and a never activated wave of follow-up
attacks to September 11.


According to his own testimony, Mohammed also lined up former US
presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter for assassination, and
wanted to destroy London's Heathrow Airport, Canary Wharf
Building, and the Big Ben clock tower.


He also said he orchestrated the aborted attempt by British "shoe
bomber" Richard Reid to blow up a US transatlantic jetliner and
beheaded Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl "with my
blessed right hand."


While some analysts believe his claims may be inflated, there is
little doubt in the US intelligence community that Mohammed,
arrested in Pakistan in 2003, is the intellectual firepower
behind many Al-Qaeda outrages.


"This is theater, a spectacle of destruction with KSM as the
self-cast star -- the superterrorist," the official US commission
into the September 11 attacks said of Mohammed's visions for the
plot.


"No one exemplifies the model of the terrorist entrepreneur more
clearly than Khalid Sheikh Mohammed," the report said, describing
how he managed terrorist franchises on different continents.


Mohammed, a key cause of the US "war on terror," also played a
central but unwitting role in the legal and constitutional tussle
which erupted over how to deal with top terror suspects.


In September 2006, President George W. Bush said interrogations
of KSM, in a secret CIA detention facility, helped unravel a
string of Al-Qaeda plots. Bush said tough tactics had been used,
but denied torture was involved.


And Mohammed topped the list of high-value Al-Qaeda suspects
moved last year from the controversial jails to Guantanamo.


The 9/11 report also offers glimpses of Mohammed's character,
apparently gleaned from subordinates also in CIA custody.


"KSM appears to have been popular among the Al-Qaeda rank and
file," the report said, describing him as an "intelligent,
efficient, and even tempered manager."


Mohammed also swam in the global currents of jihad, traveling on
international terror business widely throughout Asia, Sudan,
Yemen, and even Brazil.


He grew up in Kuwait, but is descended from the Baluchistan
region in Pakistan. He may have nurtured his empathy to the
United States while studying at Chowan College private university
in North Carolina.


Upon graduation, according to the 9/11 report, Mohammed plunged
into the anti- Soviet jihad in Afghanistan, was later involved in
the 1993 World Trade Center plot and the Bojinka operation in the
Philippines.


He told US interrogators that he formally joined Al-Qaeda in late
1998 or 1999, and soon after bin Laden approved the September 11
plot.

