

Spain's parliament adopted a wide-ranging law Thursday aimed at
achieving equality between men and women, requiring political
parties to present women candidates.


The law also includes a measure requiring companies with more
than 250 employees to negotiate "equality plans" and to include
greater female representation on their boards. The measure
follows up on an agreement reached with unions.


Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero told parliament the
measures would "transform for the better, radically and forever
Spanish society."


"It is a question of doing justice to women," said Zapatero, who
describes himself as a committed feminist and who heads one of
the only parity governments in the world.


Under the law, at least 40 percent of political parties'
candidates for office must be women, except in towns of less than
5,000 residents.


The main opposition conservative Popular Party abstained from the
vote saying the measure breached the constitution, as parties
should be free to set their candidate lists freely.


The measure will apply for the first time in forthcoming local
and regional elections slated for May 27.


Under the law Paternity leave will also be increased from two
days to 15 days and will be gradually increased to one month
between now and 2013.


Companies will be obliged to draw up "equality plans" aimed at
promoting equality between men and women in access to jobs,
promotion, training, pay and organisation of working time.


In case of a dispute it will be up to the company to prove to the
judge that it did not discriminate, rather than vice versa.


The boards of big companies will also be obliged to have at least
40 percent of women by 2015.


In Spain there is currently a wide difference in conditions for
women and men in the workplace, with men earning on average 40
percent more.


The equality law completes a series of reforms launched by
Zapatero after he came to power in early 2004, which also include
the legalisation of gay marriages and a pioneering law against
violence against women.

