

Six major powers have agreed on a draft UN resolution to step up
sanctions on Iran for its controversial nuclear activities, the
Russian and British UN ambassadors said Thursday.


"Yes, we have an agreement," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
replied when asked if the six -- Britain, China, France, Germany,
Russia and the United States -- had agreed on a draft that is to
be put to the full Security Council.


"We have an agreement and I will introduce a text on behalf of
the six in 10 minutes," British Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said.


The package is to be formally presented to the UN Security
Council's 10 non- permanent members ahead of a vote expected next
week.


The resolution, which would tighten some existing sanctions on
Iran and add some others, comes with Tehran standing firm in its
refusal to halt uranium enrichment work that the West fears is
aimed at building a nuclear bomb.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in a speech carried on the
official IRNA news agency Thursday, lashed out at the 15-member
Security Council which he said "has no legitimacy among the
peoples of the world."


"They think that they are the representatives of the
international community but the Iranian people do not lend any
value to their decisions," IRNA quoted him as saying in a speech
in the central Yazd province.


His withering attack on the UN's most powerful body indicated
Tehran has no intention of fulfilling Western hopes that a new
package of sanctions could nudge the Islamic republic into
suspending sensitive nuclear activities.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who chairs the Security
Council this month, said Wednesday a vote on the draft resolution
was not imminent.


"The voting won't be soon. We anticipate that the voting would
happen well into next week" after all delegations have had a
chance to study it and consult with their governments, he said.


The draft resolution was hammered out after days of intensive
negotiations on how to deal with Iran, which insists its nuclear
program is for peaceful purposes only. China and Russia had
resisted tough action against Tehran.


The draft would invoke Article 41 of the UN Charter, which
provides for economic and trade sanctions but excludes the use of
force.


It would extend the list of Iranians targeted for a travel ban
and assets freeze, and also provide for a ban on Iran's arms
exports and a voluntary curb on sales of weapons to the Islamic
Republic.


Also under consideration are voluntary restrictions on "new
commitments for grants, financial assistance and concessional
loans to Iran" as well as extending an assets freeze to
additional entities and individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and
missile programs.


The prospect of new sanctions comes amid an increasingly heated
row between Tehran and Moscow over new delays to Iran's first
nuclear power station, which Russia is building in the south of
the country.


Iran has repeatedly denied Russian charges it is behind on
payments and hinted that political pressure from the United
States could be the reason for delays in finishing the project.

