

Malaysia's former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim took his
political comeback to the international media stage Thursday and
said Malaysia is ready for a change.


In an interview with the BBC, Anwar said he has no choice but to
return to politics.


"I think we are ready for a change," he said.


"Malaysia has lost its competitiveness. Corruption is endemic,
far worse than before," and there are racial tensions, Anwar
said.


He was the heir-apparent to former leader Mahathir Mohamad until
1998, when he was sacked after facing sodomy and corruption
charges that landed him in jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction has been overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 2008.


Malaysia must go to the polls by 2009 but the opposition is
preparing for an early election which some members say could come
as soon as October, effectively preventing Anwar from taking
part.


Still, officials in his political party said Sunday he will run
for president of the party, Keadilan, the opposition People's
Justice Party formally run by his wife Wan Azizah Wan Ismail.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi replaced Mahathir in 2003
but Anwar said the new leader "has inherited a system and he does
not seem to want to change the system."


The Barisan Nasional coalition has ruled Malaysia for almost half
a century.


Anwar called Abdullah "a very decent, placid man" but said "the
corrupt system is very much in place", the media is not free, and
many judicial decisions are compromised.


Anwar has made similar accusations over the past year since
switching his focus back to the political scene after leading a
nomadic existence with stints lecturing in Britain, the US and
Australia after his release from prison in September 2004.


He is also scheduled to be interviewed on the Al Jazeera
television network on March 28.


Anwar filed a libel suit early last year against Mahathir after
the former prime minister said he could not allow Anwar to become
prime minister because Anwar was a homosexual.


In the BBC interview, Anwar said Mahathir -- "the king, the
master, the maestro" -- had felt threatened by him.


Now, Mahathir is "old, very bitter about things," Anwar said.

