

Togo has the chance of normalising diplomatic ties with the
European Union for the first time since 1993 if legislative
elections slated for June go ahead without major mishap.


"We hope this time to have proper elections," law professor Kokou
Aziawor told AFP; while politicians in the west African country
prepared their official campaigns for an election due before
parliament's mandate expires in October.


Foreign Minister Zarifou Ayeva said his opposition Democratic
Party for Renewal (PRD) had already alerted activists to the
possibility of violence "because election campaigns have in the
past often become tense".


The EU stopped all but minimum assistance to the small nation
sandwiched between Ghana and Benin in 1993 because of a drawn-out
political crisis pitting Togo's then ruler Gnassingbe Eyadema
against his foes and in a bid to pressure him into democracy.


The last such polls in 2002 were boycotted by most of the
opposition on the grounds they would be rigged, but all parties
are now actively preparing to contest the 81 seats that will be
up for grabs before the current parliament's five-year mandate
ends.


No date has yet been announced for the legislative poll, but an
Independent National Electoral Commission operating under an
accord reached among political parties in August last year has
recommended June 24.


The ruling Rally for the Tologese People (RPT) kick-started an
unofficial election campaign when it convened a national
conference last December in the capital Lome, a port city on the
Gulf of Guinea.


The RPT is led by President Faure Gnassingbe, the son of Eyadema,
who ruled Togo for 38 years until his death in February 2005.


Long-time opposition leader Gilchrist Olympio has also returned
from exile in France to attend a conference of his Union for the
Forces of Change (UFC), and has visited towns where violent
clashes took place during the 2005 presidential polls.


Other parties, some of which are led by former and current
government ministers, are rallying their activists for the
elections.


"This is a test for the RPT and the UFC, which claim to be the
most popular parties," one foreign diplomat posted here noted.


A new electoral code has been drawn up giving the CENI greater
powers to organise and supervise the polls, and digital voting
cards with people's photos on have been distributed.


The EU is due to send a mission to Lome to monitor the polls, a
source close to the European Commission said. It demands fair and
transparent elections in Togo in order fully to normalise
relations.

