

Andrew Flintoff has insisted the World Cup matters just as much
to England as the Ashes.


All sections of English cricket - players, fans and media - tend
to prize Test success above all else, with victory in the Ashes
series against Australia, which England last achieved in 2005,
considered the ultimate achievement.


With Test matches routinely sold out in England, something that
doesn't always happen elsewhere, this has led to suggestions that
winning one-day matches is a long way down the list of English
cricket's priorities.


The fact that England have failed to make the second round of the
last two World Cups hasn't helped the cause of those players who
say they do care about limited overs success.


However, after their recent 5-0 Ashes series thrashing in
Australia, it was the one-day format that gave England something
to cling to as they overcame a poor start to win a triangular
tournament also featuring New Zealand - their opponents in their
World Cup Group C opener here Friday.


"To me it's on a level," giant all-rounder Flintoff told
reporters at the Beausejour Cricket Ground here Thursday when
asked to compare the Ashes and the World Cup.


"In Test match cricket you've got the Ashes which is obviously
the biggest thing and the World Cup in the one-day format is
huge.


"If you look at any other sport the World Cup is the pinnacle of
all players' careers. In the one-day format this is it. This is
what you build for, this is what you want to play in."


In South Africa four years ago, England's World Cup campaign was
overshadowed by protracted wrangling which ultimately led them to
boycott their scheduled group match in the Zimbabwe capital of
Harare on safety and political grounds - a decision which cost
them valuable points.


However, there have been no such distractions this time around
and Flintoff said of the team's preparation for this tournament:
"It's gone miles better. We haven't been sat in a room for three
days discussing things.


"We've been able to get out there, train and practice, just
building up. We're in a nice position."


Looking ahead, Flintoff added: "I've played in two World Cups and
not got to the second round yet and I am keen to do well in this
one.


"It is a big stage and it is a chance for people and teams to
shine.


"If you look at our team, we have a side of match-winners and
each one of those will want to perform and show what they can do.
It's something which excites me and it's definitely something
exciting the rest of the lads as well."


England will look to Flintoff to lead their pace attack and
provide some quick runs in the middle-order. And the Lancashire
star said he was ready for the challenge.


"At 29, I've played far more one-day international cricket, I'm
better equipped. I'm expecting to perform."


"I think its quite wide open. If you look at the top six or seven
sides everyone's got a chance," he added.


"The one thing we've got to find is consistency to play well for
a long period of time.


"We can win one-off games but we've got to keep going from where
we left off in Australia, winning four games on the bounce."

