

South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo said Thursday that his
country would carefully scrutinize the draft resolution on new UN
sanctions against Iran to ensure it leads to "a political
solution".


"We want a political solution to this matter," Kumalo, who chairs
the UN Security Council for this month, told reporters Thursday
as six major powers introduced a draft broadening UN sanctions
slapped on Iran in December over its refusal to suspend sensitive
nuclear fuel work.


"So we will read this document looking to language that opens the
door for political negotiations" to resolve the nuclear crisis
between Tehran and the six powers, he added.


Kumalo said a vote on the text, worked out by Britain, China,
France, Russia, the United States and Germany, could come next
week.


Kumalo added that the council's 15 members scheduled a meeting
next Wednesday afternoon to discuss the sanctions package after
delegations have had time to study it and refer it to their
capitals.


The new draft broadens sanctions imposed by the council in
December after Tehran spurned repeated UN demands to freeze
uranium enrichment, a possible pathway to nuclear weapons.


It bans Iran from exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade
sanctions on the Islamic Republic and expands a list of officials
and companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions
because of their alleged links with Iran's sensitive nuclear and
ballistic missile programs.


"We will be looking for areas where it (the text) addresses non-
proliferation, which is important, but also protects the rights
of Iran for the peaceful use of nuclear (energy)," Kumalo said.


He also said Pretoria was keen to ensure that the role of the
International Atomic Energy (IAEA) in the Iranian nuclear crisis
"is also protected because they are the people who are experts on
this."


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s during its transition from white minority rule to a
democratic state, has consistently defended Iran's right to
enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


South Africa, which took up its seat as non-permanent member of
the Security Council in January, has acted as a mediator in the
nuclear standoff with Iran, one of its chief suppliers of oil.


Late last month, Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani visited
South Africa to discuss the crisis with President Thabo Mbeki.

