

The IntercontinentalExchange launched Thursday a takeover offer
worth nearly 10 billion dollars for the venerable Chicago Board
of Trade, hoping to upset a merger of CBOT with another Chicago
futures market.


The Atlanta, Georgia-based ICE, which controls the New York Board
of Trade (NYBOT) along with futures markets in London and Dublin,
said its offer for CBOT would "create the world's most
comprehensive derivatives exchange."


CBOT Holdings Inc. issued a terse statement saying it would
review the ICE proposal "as soon as practicable" and refused
further comment.


Only on Wednesday, CBOT issued an accelerated timetable for its
planned merger with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), which
is set to be voted on by their shareholders on April 4.


"We are working toward the successful completion of our
transaction," the CME said in response to the ICE bid.


"We are confident that the CME/CBOT merger will create a strong
combination and provide significant and unique benefits for
shareholders and customers of both companies," it said.


Chicago has been a global center for derivatives ever since CBOT
began offering the world's first agricultural futures contracts
in 1848, based on the likely prices of farming products in the US
midwest.


The CME's offer of October last year, worth about 8.0 billion
dollars, has been accepted by both boards as the Chicago markets
vie to keep up with a wave of global markets consolidation.


The ICE, however, said it could do better with CBOT. Its all-
stock bid valued CBOT at 187 dollars per share, or about 9.9
billion dollars in all. That is a premium of about 13 percent on
CBOT's share price before Thursday.


The ICE proposed a swap deal, offering 1.42 of its own shares for
each CBOT share.


That could set the stage for a bidding war. In market action
Thursday, CBOT Holdings shares rocketed 17.38 percent to 194.95
dollars. ICE stock lost 2.90 percent to 128.10, while CME shares
slumped 5.51 percent to 532.88.


"The transaction we are proposing is clearly superior to a
combination with the CME for CBOT's shareholders and other
stakeholders," ICE chief executive Jeffrey Sprecher argued.


In a letter to the CBOT board, he highlighted potential antitrust
concerns arising from the "significant concentration of market
power" if the CME merger goes through.


In contrast, the products traded on CBOT, NYBOT and ICE were
"complementary" and unlikely to trigger regulatory issues.


"In fact, we believe that the futures industry and antitrust
regulators will embrace the creation of a strong derivatives
group to protect and enhance industry competition and
innovation," Sprecher said.


The merged company would stay in Chicago, using CBOT's landmark
headquarters building and operating under the well-known CBOT
brand.


The ICE said it would also retain CBOT's open auction markets,
and would promote its flagship metals trading. CBOT could save
money and gain efficiency through switching its electronic
trading to ICE's platform.


The combined company would offer a broad range of futures and
options products, including agricultural commodities, interest
rates, energy such as crude oil, gold and silver, and financial
contracts such as foreign exchange.


However, CBOT shows no sign of losing its interest in the CME
deal. On Wednesday, the two companies said they planned to wrap
up their merger by mid-2007.


Pending regulatory approval, the companies plan to migrate
electronically traded CBOT products onto the CME Globex platform
in a phased process starting in the first quarter of 2008.


Their "open outcry" markets will be merged into a single trading
floor located at CBOT in the second quarter of 2008.

