

Eleven people were injured Thursday in restive northeastern India
in a series of blasts that left a gas pipeline in flames and one
of the bombers dead, officials said.


Police suspect the United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) --
which has been fighting for an independent homeland for almost
three decades -- of carrying out the four blasts in Assam state's
eastern Sivasagar district.


An early morning blast at a vegetable market left the bomber dead
and injured eight people, and was followed by a trio of blasts in
different parts of the district in the evening, a police
spokesman said.


"Investigations revealed that the person who died in the blast
was the bomber himself. The bomb was hidden inside his jacket and
went off before he could plant it," district police chief Shyamal
Saikia told AFP.


One of the blasts blew up a natural gas pipeline owned by the
state-run Assam Gas Company, Saikia said.


"There is a big fire at the gas pipeline and firefighters are
trying to douse the flames," the police official said. "The
supply of gas has been stopped from the main source and we expect
the fire to be controlled soon."


Rebels also bombed a Hindu temple in the same district, about 385
kilometres (240 miles) from the state's main city of Guwahati.


"Three people were injured in the blast," said Saikia. "A bicycle
fitted with explosives was left inside the temple complex."


A fourth blast damaged a power transformer.


The blasts came on the eve of ULFA celebrations on March 16 to
mark the date the outfit's armed wing was formed.


"The blasts are aimed to create panic and also to make the ULFA's
presence felt ahead of their Army Day celebrations," Assam police
intelligence chief Khagen Sharma told AFP.


The blasts follow on the heels of two bomb explosions in Assam
this week that killed one person and injured 24. A ruling
Congress party leader was also shot dead.


The week's attacks were the first since the rebels extended an
offer to hold talks with New Delhi, which has not responded.


ULFA was blamed for a string of attacks in January that killed
about 80 people, 61 of them Hindi-speaking migrant workers in
eastern Assam.


More than 10,000 people have lost their lives in the insurgency
over the past two decades.

