

France cut the ribbon Thursday on a superfast new rail line that
will see trains shooting from Paris to the eastern city of
Strasbourg at a record speed of 320 kilometres (200 miles) per
hour.


Transport Minister Dominique Perben, travelling with dozens of
French business leaders and guests, made the inaugural eastbound
journey from Paris Thursday on board the new TGV-Est, ahead of a
lavish evening ceremony.


Some 3,000 torches were due to light up in a wave along the
entire 300 kilometres of the rail line, in a spectacular
pyrotechnic show broadcast on national television.


Pride of French engineering, the Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV) --
which turned 25 last year -- is one of the world's fastest rail
services, along with Japan's Shinkansen bullet train connecting
Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto and Osaka and Germany's ICE (Inter-City
Express).


The futuristic German-built magnetic levitation train -- in
circulation on a 30-kilometre stretch from Shanghai airport to
the city -- is the only faster train, capable of hitting up to
450 kilometres per hour.


Work began five years ago on the state-of-the-art Paris-
Strasbourg TGV line, which opens to the public on June 10. One of
the biggest rail projects in Europe, it mobilised some 10,000
workers and required 78,000 tonnes of steel -- enough to build
eight Eiffel towers.


Last month, it was on the Paris-Strasbourg line that the TGV
broke its own world record by hitting a peak speed of 553
kilometres per hour during a test run. It is to attempt a new
high-velocity breakthrough in the coming weeks.


The new train will cut the Paris-Strasbourg trip to two hours and
20 minutes from the current four hours. It will also slash travel
time to points further east, making the trip from Paris to
Luxembourg in about two hours, to Frankfurt in less than four and
to Munich in six hours and fifteen minutes.


"Some 37 million Europeans can be reached," said TGV-Est director
Alain Le Guellec. "A network of high-speed links is being put
into place with the rest of Europe."


President Jacques Chirac Thursday hailed the new rail service as
a "major industry success", saying it would generate economic
growth and jobs.


"This admirably demonstrates France's capabilities in research,
development and innovation," Chirac said, lauding trains as
faster, cheaper and greener than planes.


Perben announced on Monday that the second phase of construction
-- which will knock another half-hour off the journey time from
Paris to Strasbourg, to one hour 50 minutes -- would be brought
forward from 2010 to 2008.


But there are doubts over whether the rail service will be
commercially viable.


The project cost of four billion euros (5.3 billion dollars) is
being shared among 22 financial partners at various levels of the
French government, as well as Luxembourg, the European Union and
the French state-owned railway SNCF.

