

The dollar traded mostly lower Thursday, hitting a two-week low
against the euro as the market mulled a strong US inflation
report and disappointing manufacturing surveys.


The single European currency fetched 1.3232 dollars at 2000 GMT
after 1.3220 late Wednesday in New York. The euro at one point
climbed to 1.3252 dollars, its best showing since February 27.


The dollar managed to increase to 117.64 yen after 117.07 on
Wednesday.


A report released Thursday showed that the Philadelphia Fed index
fell to just 0.2 in March from 0.6 in February, showing a minimal
level of expansion in manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia
region and confounding market expectations for a jump to around
5.0.


The report followed news that the equivalent Empire survey
covering the New York area declined well below expectations to
plus-1.9 in March from plus-24.4 in February.


"As presaged by the Empire State survey this morning, the (Philly
Fed) headline data once again disappointed," analysts at Thomson
IFR Markets said.


They noted that most of the dollar's losses against the euro came
ahead of the release, however, after rumors circulated the market
of a weaker reading.


Details of the Philly Fed index also revealed a sharp jump in the
prices paid index, pointing to rising inflationary pressures,
particularly given the earlier very strong US producer prices
report.


The figures showed that the US Producer Price Index surged 1.3
percent in February from January compared with a 0.5 percent gain
foreseen by the market.


"At first glimpse, the indicator seemed to be fuel for dollar
bulls," said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


"On closer inspection though, its possible effects on Fed policy
or even a big pop in the downstream consumer (price) index were
more ambiguous."


The strong inflation indicators suggested the Federal Reserve
would be unable to lower US interest rates any time soon, despite
evidence of slowing activity.


That in turn supported "carry trade" operations, where money is
borrowed in countries with low interest rates such as Japan and
invested in higher yielding currencies elsewhere.


Those operations drive the Japanese yen lower and support higher
yielders such as the Australian dollar.


"Yen weakness has resumed with the strong inflation data today
underpinning the view that the Fed cannot cut rates soon,
supporting yield plays," said Rhonda Staskow at Thomson IFR.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2176 Swiss francs
from 1.2180 Wednesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9365 dollars after 1.9351.

