

A Democratic Party bid to force withdrawal of US combat troops
from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest passed its first hurdle
Thursday, after a showdown in a key congressional committee.


The Appropriations Committee of the House of Representatives
voted to retain the deadline in a provision in President George
W. Bush's 120 billion dollar budget request for the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq.


The Republican minority in the House had opposed the move, which
also threatened to compel withdrawal even before September next
year, if Bush cannot certify benchmarks for progress are being
met in Iraq.


The full House was expected to debate the measure next week.


Though Bush has threatened to veto such legislation, Democrats
are hoping their tactics will significantly crank up pressure on
the president over the unpopular Iraq war.


The Democratic-controlled Senate meanwhile held an impassioned
debate over a parallel bid to establish a timetable to get combat
troops out of Iraq, and girded for a vote expected later
Thursday.


The plan, also overshadowed by a Bush veto threat, sets a goal of
getting soldiers out by March 31, 2008.


The House and Senate maneuvers were the latest step in a step-by-
step escalation of the row over Bush's new plan to surge more
than 21,500 extra troops into Iraq.


While the Senate bill's chances of attracting a 60-vote
supermajority needed to overcome Republican procedural hurdles
appeared slim, Democrats were also hoping to critically up
pressure on Bush's Republican backers.


But even chances of the move winning a simple majority seemed
slim.


Democrats have a 51-49 majority in the chamber, but are believed
to only be able to count on 49 votes in favor of the resolution.


There was also little sign that significant numbers of
Republicans would desert the president, despite reservations over
the unpopular war.


"If we leave Iraq before the job is done, I believe,  as night
follows day, the terrorists will follow us home," said Republican
Senator John Ensign.


But Democratic veteran Senator Robert Byrd warned "the American
people are speaking. It is time for a new plan, not more empty
rhetoric about stay the course and cut and run."


The White House on Thursday reinforced its opposition to the
Democratic measure, announced by Senate Majority leader Harry
Reid last week.


Asked whether Bush would wield his veto, his spokesman Tony Snow
said "If it comes out in the present form, absolutely."


Democratic leaders, while trying to curtail Bush's ability to
continue to wage war in Iraq, have stopped short of wielding
their power to cut funding for the conflict -- wary of being seen
as deserting US troops.


As part of their agreement to hold Thursday's debate, Republicans
forced a vote on a measure that would commit the Senate to supply
sufficient financing to the US war effort, in a bid to force
Democrats into a corner.


A fall-back resolution, offered by Democratic Senator Patty
Murray, states that Congress and the president have equal
responsibility for troops in wartime and for their medical care
when they are wounded.

