

Germany's highest judicial court on Thursday scrapped a ruling
against a man convicted of breaching a ban on Nazi symbols by
selling T-shirts, lighters and stickers with a crossed-out
swastika.


Juergen Kamm had been fined 3,600 euros (4,750 dollars) by a
lower court in Stuttgart in September for "selling
unconstitutional symbols" through his mail order company "Nix
Gut" (Nothing Good).


German law prohibits the use of Nazi insignia except in specific
educational and artistic contexts.


But the federal court of justice in Karlsruhe in western Germany
found that Kamm had committed no crime because the items he sold
"clearly and unambiguously" carried an anti-Nazi message.


"The court has scrapped the earlier conviction and acquitted the
accused. His actions did not go against the spirit of the law,"
it said in a statement.


Kamm, a punk in his early 30s who sports red hair, has said that
he holds left- wing political views.


His earlier conviction sparked outrage.


The leader of the Greens party, Claudia Roth, and other
politicians protested to the Stuttgart authorities that they had
once worn badges with broken swastikas.


Thursday's ruling sets a legal precedent and was welcomed by
Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries.


"One must make a clear difference between the use of Nazi symbols
and the satirical, artistic representation of these to indicate
that you oppose Nazism," she said.


Prosecuting authorities can now concentrate on bringing to
justice right-wing extremists who use Nazi insignia, she added.


The Karlsruhe court said it did not believe that its ruling would
be exploited by rightwingers as a loophole enabling them to wear
Nazi insignia in some form.


"They will not wear Nazi insignia that have been corrupted in
this way because they will see it as a travesty of something that
they regard as 'holy.'"


Germany, which holds the presidency of the EU, recently tried to
persuade all 27 members of the bloc to criminalise the use of
Nazi symbols.


But the proposal, first mooted after Britain's Prince Harry wore
a German army uniform with a swastika to a party in 2005, sparked
an angry counter-campaign by Hindu groups.


They said the swastika had been part of their religious symbols
for nearly 5,000 years before the Nazis appropriated it.

