

A Paris court Thursday sentenced French Muslim convert Willie
Brigitte to nine years in jail for conspiring with Pakistani
extremists to plot terrorist attacks in Australia.


Brigitte, a 38-year-old from the French Caribbean island of
Guadeloupe, showed no emotion as the verdict was read out in the
Paris criminal court. He was led from the courtroom with a white
tracksuit jacket pulled over his head.


Brigitte was arrested in Australia in October 2003 following a
tip-off from the French intelligence services. He was deported to
France, where he has spent the past three and a half years in
detention.


Based on a web of connections linking him to the Pakistani
extremist group Lashkar e-Taiba in France, Yemen, Pakistan and
Australia -- where prosecutors said he was sent to carry out an
attack -- he was convicted of "criminal conspiracy in relation
with a terrorist enterprise".


The court found Brigitte guilty of belonging to the Al-Qaeda-
linked group from the time of his conversion to Islam in 1998
until his arrest in October 2003, according to a draft copy of
the ruling obtained by AFP.


During that period, said the ruling, he ran paramilitary camps in
France to toughen up Islamist fighters and underwent
comprehensive weapons and explosives training in Lashkar e-Taiba
camps on the Pakistani-Afghan border.


The ruling said he travelled to Australia on the group's orders
in May 2003 to plot an attack on targets including a Sydney
nuclear plant, the city's power grid and military installations
around the country.


The French court said the Australian probe into the attack plan
had established Brigitte's role in the scheme.


Brigitte's main contact during his five years in the country,
suspected Lashkar e-Taiba operative Faheem Khalid Lodhi, was
jailed for 20 years by an Australian court in 2006 over the plot.


After the verdict one of Brigitte's lawyers, Jean-Claude Durimel,
told reporters he was considering an appeal but needed to discuss
it with his client. Under French law, he has 10 days to appeal.


"Willie Brigitte says he does not believe in his country's
justice. But we think that there is more to say," said Harry
Durimel, who was also representing Brigitte.


"The sentence is grotesque," he told reporters in English. "This
is a pure witchhunt," he added.


"No formal proof has been provided of Willie Brigitte's
involvement in anything whatsoever. We are in a context of
Islamophobia that wants to put away anyone who goes against the
grain."


The defence lawyers had called for his acquittal, saying his
statements to French police were obtained under pressure and that
the prosecution's case would not have stood up in an Australian
court.


"Why didn't they call him to Australia if he had done something
wrong there? He was in the French authorities' hands, they would
have sent him," Harry Durimel asked.


The sentence fell just short of the maximum 10-year term
requested by prosecutors at Brigitte's three-day trial last
month.


The judge included a six-year period without the possibility of
parole, which Brigitte's lawyers said was unnecessarily harsh,
given that he has no previous criminal record.


"What crime has he committed? Where is the proof that Willie
Brigitte is dangerous?" asked Harry Durimel.


"We think this is a judgment of opinion. They reproach him for
his opinion. He is a rebel who is contesting the Christianity
that he qualifies as being the religion of slavemasters," he
said.


Unusually, the ruling said it took account of the difficulties of
being raised in a territory -- Guadeloupe -- where the population
is mostly black but where all positions of authority are held by
white people.


The defence had argued that Brigitte's conversion to radical
Islam was partly a reaction to racial discrimination in his
upbringing.

