

Dutch captain Luuk van Troost believes they can take heart from
fellow minnows Ireland when they tackle mighty South Africa in
their World Cup opener here on Friday.


Ireland gave the world number one team a huge scare in a warm-up
match last week when they had the South Africans reeling at 92-8
before Andrew Hall rescued Graeme Smith's men.


"We saw what Ireland did, they bowled them out for 190, and we
beat Ireland in Kenya in our last game, so there's no reason why
we can't do it," said the Netherlands' 37-year-old skipper.


"The pressure is all on them, not on us. We are the underdogs,"
added van Troost whose team, like his opponents, were unable to
practice due to rain at Warner Park on Thursday.


Defending champions Australia, who are also in Group A, thumped
Scotland by 203 runs in their opening match here on Wedensday.


The top two teams qualify for the next round Super Eight.


Van Troost said Scotland didn't perform badly.


"It was a devastating match, but Scotland bowled quite well until
the 45th over. Australia is our second match and we have South
Africa on Friday so first things first. We want to show the world
that we can play cricket."


"The first target is to win the game. That's why we are here. But
maybe during the game we have to reassess it and if we bowl first
and keep them under 300 we will give ourselves a chance."


Van Troost said his team's main strength lies in its bowling.


"Our strengths are bowling and fielding. We bowled India out for
200 in the 2003 World Cup, and we can do that with any team. We
might struggle with the batting, especially against real pace and
world-class spinners, because we don't have that experience."


The captain hoped smaller nations will get more exposure in
future.


"Associate teams need more games. That's so important for us.
During the Kenya tournament last month we just missed out against
Scotland off the last ball. If we had won that match we would
have been at the Twenty20 World Cup later this year."


Van Troost said his team has the talent to fire at the top level.


"We have some very good players. Darron Reekers is a big hitter
and he's in form, he doesn't care if the keeper is standing up or
sitting back, he just goes after them. It is a slow track which
is good for us. The slower the better."


The captain lamented the fact that cricket is not a big sport
back home.


"It's a pity we don't have cricket on television," said van
Troost.


"Cricket is not big in Holland, not big in the press, or on
televison. We are amateurs. It's all soccer in Holland - soccer,
soccer, and soccer then some hockey and other sports.


"But if we do well in this tournament we may get more exposure."

