

Wigan striker Caleb Folan was handed his first Ireland call-up on
Thursday, 24 hours after being granted a passport by the Republic
on the strength of his Irish grandparents.


Celtic defender Darren O'Dea is the other newcomer in Steve
Staunton's squad for the Euro 2008 qualifiers away to Wales on
March 24 and at home to Slovakia on March 28.


Staunton explained: "We weren't sure if Caleb would have the
paperwork through in time but thankfully we got the call last
night that he's got his Irish passport.


"I know through his agent and (Wigan boss) Paul Jewell that he's
more than keen to play for us. He's absolutely delighted with the
call-up.


"Paul's delighted with his progress and obviously must have
thought something of him to buy Caleb in the first place. He told
me that he'd thought Caleb would be a bit-part player until the
end of the season.


"But he's done that well, formed such a good relationship with
the other strikers at the club and been such a handful for
opposition defences that he's actually starting. He's willing and
wanting to learn."


Folan's maiden inclusion comes despite the form of Crystal Palace
striker Clinton Morrison and Sunderland's David Connolly in
recent weeks.


Staunton feels Folan's physical strength could prove an asset to
the Irish cause in their attempts to qualify for Euro 2008.


He said: "Caleb is big, quick and he'll put it about. He'll run
down the channels and defenders don't like that. He's a handful
in the air and he'll be awkward to deal with."


O'Dea, 20, was named in Don Givens' Under-21 squad for a friendly
against Holland on March 27 but will now be withdrawn for the two
senior games, along with Darron Gibson.


The young Dubliner has made a major impression with Celtic after
breaking into the first team in September. He starred in the
Champions League last-16 games against AC Milan earlier this
month.


Staunton said: "He's doing very nicely for Celtic. When I spoke
to Gordon Strachan in the earlier part of the season he felt he
wasn't ready at that point. But 16 games later in different
competitions he's got a different opinion and rightly so because
when you play regularly at Parkhead in front of 65,000 it makes
you a better player.


"He could have got man of the match in the games against AC Milan
and looks the sort that if I were to play him he wouldn't let us
down."


Reading's Kevin Doyle, Birmingham's Stephen Kelly and Newcastle
keeper Shay Given are recalled after missing the February 7 win
over San Marino.


Ireland squad


Goalkeepers: Shay Given (Newcastle), Nick Colgan (Barnsley),
Wayne Henderson (Preston)


Defenders: Paul McShane (West Brom), Richard Dunne (Manchester
City), Steve Finnan (Liverpool), Darren O'Dea (Celtic), John
O'Shea (Manchester Utd), Stephen Kelly (Birmingham)


Midfielders: Kevin Kilbane (Wigan), Stephen Ireland (Manchester
City), Lee Carsley (Everton), Jonathan Douglas (Leeds), Aiden
McGeady (Celtic), Stephen Hunt (Reading), Alan Quinn (Sheffield
United), Damien Duff (Newcastle), Darron Gibson (Manchester
United)


Forwards: Robbie Keane (Tottenham), Anthony Stokes (Sunderland),
Kevin Doyle (Reading), Sean Long (Reading), Caleb Folan (Wigan).

