

Nigeria's electoral agency Thursday omitted the name of the
country's Vice President Atiku Abubakar from its list of 24
candidates cleared to run in the April 21 presidential poll.


Maurice Iwu, the head of the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) declined to comment on the decision, which is
perceived as tantamount to a disqualification of Abubakar, the
candidate of the opposition Action Congress (AC).


INEC argues that Abubakar was indicted on corruption charges in
September 2006 and is therefore barred from running by law.


Abubakar's indictment has been the subject of much controversy,
with his supporters saying the whole case against him was
politically motivated by his foes within Nigeria.


The corruption case against the vice president came after he fell
out with his boss, President Olusegun Obasanjo, and the latter
vowed that Abubakar would not succeed him.


Thursday's list of approved candidates included the name of Umaru
Yar'Adua, the candidate of President Olusegun Obasanjo's ruling
People's Democratic Party (PDP).


It also included opposition heavyweight Muhammadu Buhari of the
All Nigeria People's Party (ANPP) and former Biafran warlord
Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, who is standing for the All Progressives
Grand Alliance (APGA).


Abubakar's spokesman, Garba Shehu, immediately said the party
would challenge INEC's decision in court.


"It is clear that INEC has chosen lawlessness as against the
observance of the rule of law. We have no option other than to go
to court," he told AFP by telephone.


Abubakar's supporters said INEC has no power to disqualify
anyone. INEC itself agrees it cannot disqualify anyone, but
stresses that it is obliged under the constitution to publish a
list of those candidates who meet the requirements laid out in
the constitution.


Iwu further confirmed that the polls will go ahead as planned
with April 21 as the date set for presidential and legislative
elections and April 14 for state governorship elections.


He told journalists that most Nigerians failed to realise that
"the constitution provides little or no flexibility for the
postponement of the elections, whatever the circumstances."


There has been much speculation that Obasanjo, who last year made
an unsuccessful bid to change the constitution and enable himself
to stay on for a third term, might try to have the elections
postponed.


Some analysts have questioned Obasanjo's choice of Yar'Adua, a
man whose ill health last week necessitated medical treatment
abroad, as his successor. They have speculated this might be a
ploy to delay the elections and stay in power a bit longer.


Others have interpreted unchecked violence in the Niger delta,
Nigeria's southern oil-producing region, as a first step to the
declaration of a state of emergency and a de facto postponement
of the polls.


Obasanjo has however assured Nigerians he will hand over to his
successor at the end of May as planned.

