

Focusing on demand, rather than the poverty which generates the
supply, can limit child prostitution which blights millions of
young lives, participants told a conference in Madrid on
Thursday.


The day-long international conference, organised by non-
governmental organisations led by Spain's Intervida World
Alliance and the International Organisation for Migration (IOM),
urged governments to face up to a problem they say has become a
brutal, multi-billion dollar business.


"Poverty is not the underlying cause," Intervida director general
Joan Manuel Costa insisted as he opened the day-long forum.


According to NGOs including Intervida and UNICEF, there are as
many as 300,000 child prostitutes in the United States and up to
half a million in China and India.


But such is the nature of the problem, where victims often are
unable or too ashamed to speak out for themselves, the figures
could be far higher.


"The clandestine aspect of the sex industry allows only an
estimation," the IOM's Senegalese deputy director general Ndioro
Ndiaye, a former social welfare minister, explained.


Maria Jose Chamorro, for the vulnerable groups unit of the
International Labour Organisation, said that neither the victims
nor the countries suffering from extreme and widespread poverty
should suffer the brunt of the blame.


"We must confront the demand. The existence of clients (for the
sexual services of a child) is the primary cause" of a problem
fuelled by sex tourism.


Ndiaye told AFP governments were guilty of not getting to grips
with the issue.


"The government aspect is missing at a conference such as this.
The responsibility of states really must be engaged in searching
for a solution.


"Sometimes, you are up against a culture of silence. You have to
provide information, use the law, pursue the perpetrators."


An Argentine participant, Irene Rodriguez, told how she was
abused and raped as a toddler by a relative.


"I had my first abortion at 11 -- without anaesthetic. I learned
the only way to live was through giving my body in exchange" for
being looked after.


Asked why much family abuse did not come to light, Rodriguez told
AFP: "There is such silence. Why? Maybe it's cultural. But we
must confront this issue."


Maria Eugenia Villarreal, a Guatemala-based expert with the ECPAT
UK foundation, said the phenomenon is hard to keep track of,
particularly in developing, war- torn countries where children
are often not registered at birth and officially do not exist.


Riikka Puttonen, head of crime prevention in the UN's Anti-Human
Trafficking Unit, highlighted the cases of Ajit, an Indian boy
subjected to testicular growth hormone treatment so he could
satisfy paedophile demand, and Sray, a six- year-old Cambodian
girl.


"She was passed from man to man, often drugged to make her
compliant .. Her mother sold her for about 10 dollars. She tested
HIV positive -- she died last week," Puttonen said.


Maria-Grazia Giammarinaro, a judge and Italian expert with the
European Commission, told AFP the problem was a "legal minefield"
given different national legislation covering offences against
minors across the European Union.


"We need a move towards global jurisdiction to reduce legal
obstacles," she said.

