

Six major powers on Thursday agreed a draft resolution on broader
UN sanctions against Iran but Tehran ruled out suspending its
sensitive nuclear fuel work.


After a final bargaining session, envoys of the council's five
veto-wielding permanent members (P5) -- Britain, China, France,
Russia and the United States -- plus Germany announced that they
had resolved remaining sticking points.


"Yes, we have an agreement," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
told reporters. The deal caps 10 days of hard-nosed haggling
among envoys of the six powers that have spearheaded efforts to
rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions.


The agreement virtually ensures that the new sanctions will be
approved when the draft is put to a vote next week.


British Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry presented the text to the
Council's 10 non- permanent members.


"It's a good, balanced, incremental step," US acting ambassador
Alejandro Wolff said.


But South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who chairs the
15-member council this month, stressed Wednesday that there would
not be "automaticity" in approving the text.


He noted that sponsors had given assurances that the non-
permanent council members would have "enough time" to review the
draft and amend it if necessary.


On Thursday, Kumalo said a vote could come "next week."


The new package builds on the sanctions imposed by the council in
December after Tehran spurned repeated UN demands to freeze
uranium enrichment, a possible pathway to nuclear weapons.


The December punitive measures included a ban on the sale of
nuclear and ballistic missile-related materials to the Islamic
republic and a freeze on financial assets of Iranians involved in
illicit atomic and ballistic missile work.


The new draft, a copy of which was obtained by AFP, would bar
Iran from exporting arms and would urge all states to restrict
the sale or transfer "of any battle tanks, armored combat
vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft,
attack helicopters, warships, missiles" and other arms.


It calls for a voluntary travel ban on additional officials and
companies involved in Iran's "proliferation sensitive" nuclear
and ballistic missile programs.


It also urges voluntary restrictions on "new commitments for
grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to Iran" as
well as extending an assets freeze to additional entities and
individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and missile programs.


Key officers of Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps
(IRGC), several IRGC companies and Bank Sepah were added to the
list of people and entities subjected to such financial
sanctions.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply with repeated UN
demands or face "further appropriate measures" (economic
sanctions but no force) under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


The six powers want Iran to suspend uranium enrichment as they
fear the process could be diverted away from civilian use to make
nuclear weapons. But Iran insists that its nuclear program is
entirely peaceful.


A defiant Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Thursday
dismissed the new sanctions package and slammed the Security
Council as lacking any legitimacy.


"Today the enemies of the Iranian people are seeking to use the
Security Council to prevent the progress and development of Iran.
But the Security Council has no legitimacy among the peoples of
the world," said Ahmadinejad in a speech in the central Yazd
province.


Ahmadinejad's defiance was echoed -- albeit in a more measured
way -- by the foreign policy advisor of supreme leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei who said Iran would continue its nuclear drive and
played down the effect of more sanctions.


Ali Akbar Velayati, a highly influential former foreign minister,
said Iran would not "repeat the experience of suspending its
uranium enrichment activities as the United States would not be
satisfied by this and would then bring up other questions."


Visiting French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin told
reporters here that Tehran had a choice between accepting its
"international obligations concerning enrichment" or sanctions.


The prospect of new sanctions comes amid an increasingly heated
row between Tehran and Moscow over new delays to Iran's first
nuclear power station, which Russia is building in the south of
the country.


There was meanwhile no formal confirmation of reports that
Ahmadinejad or another senior Iranian official planned to attend
any crunch meeting of the Security Council in person to defend
Iran's position.

