

Paul McCartney's estranged wife Heather Mills insisted Thursday
she still loves the former Beatles legend, but said securing a
divorce deal from him was like "getting blood out of a stone".


Mills, fighting for a share of the singer-songwriter's multi-
million-pound fortune, also alleged that "powerful" forces were
out to smear her name as a gold-digger trying to cash in on their
five-year marriage.


Breaking her silence over her feelings about the couple's split,
she said she would never recover from her relationship with the
64-year-old.


"I will never get over it. I will always love Paul. He is the
father of my child but I just have to move on and deal with it
and there is nothing I can do," she told BBC News 24 television.


"I have never spoken badly about my husband. I never will -- he
is the father of my child," she said.


But the 39-year-old -- currently starring in a celebrity dance
show in the United States -- also lamented in a separate
interview that securing a divorce deal from the former Beatles
legend was like "getting blood out of a stone".


Asked by Sky News television how long the divorce could take, she
replied: "I've got no idea. It's like getting blood from a stone.
It could take a year, I've got no idea," adding: "It's not down
to me, it's all down to me hubby."


Mills and the former Beatle announced the end of their four-year
marriage last May.


But the divorce has turned into an acrimonious affair played out
in the media, with leaked divorce papers in November claiming
McCartney mistreated Mills, his second wife.


One press report last month said McCartney is planning to offer a
25-million- pound (38-million-euro, 49-million-dollar) settlement
to end the bitter divorce battle.


Mills also accused the media of mistreating her, alleging that at
one stage she was pushed around by photographers trying to get a
"bum and belly shot" when she was seven months pregnant.


She also alleged that sinister forces had coloured the media's
attitude to her.


"It's a big powerful group of people behind this whole campaign
against me," she said, saying all she wanted was balanced
coverage, "not just the one sided, 'let's crucify and vilify
Heather'" reporting.


But she insisted: "I won't be bruised and beaten down. I won't
allow this to happen," adding: "It's very hard, it's very
difficult, but I will get through."


McCartney and Mills appeared in court in London on March 1 for a
preliminary hearing in their divorce.


Mills, who insists she is not a publicity-seeker for her own
sake, was speaking as she sought to highlight her latest campaign
protesting against pig farming practices.


Like McCartney she is passionate about animal rights. Earlier
this week she was forced to defend herself after pictures emerged
in the British media of her wearing a fur coat.


On Thursday she underlined that the picture in question dated
from 18 years ago, before she became involved in animal rights
issues, adding that the coat involved was one of three cherished
objects left to her by her late mother.


She also dismissed a comparison with supermodel Naomi Campbell,
who was widely criticized a few years ago after advertizing fur,
despite having previously being involved in the "I'd rather go
naked than wear fur" campaign.


"Eighteen years ago I wore fur a couple of times like loads of
people, then I got educated on what was right, not eating
animals... I've never said 'don't wear fur' and gone back to
wearing fur," she said.

