

Latvian security forces were on high alert Thursday on the eve of
a controversial day of tribute to World War II veterans who
fought in a Nazi unit.


Several groups, most of them with no connection to the Latvian
Legion -- the Waffen SS unit in which Latvians fought in World
War II -- are planning to march and picket in the centre of Riga
on Friday, on what has come to be known as Legionnaires' Day.


State police chief Aldis Lieljuksis said security forces were
ready to crack down on would-be troublemakers, and reminded
Latvians that March 16 was intended as a day of remembrance, not
street brawls.


"Those who wish to put on a show should stay home," he said on
Wednesday.


The Legionnaires themselves want nothing to do with the radical
groups that in the past have hijacked the day.


"It is all theatre, a staged spectacle which we view negatively
and wish to have nothing to do with," Edgars Skreija, the
chairman of the organisation of Latvian World War II
Legionnaires, told AFP.


Skreija, who was 20 when he was forced to join the Legion when it
was created in 1943, slammed the "media for painting a distorted
picture" of his combat unit.


"We had to take up weapons to fight against those who occupied
Latvia in 1940, against those who violated our country and our
families," he said, referring to the first Soviet occupation of
the Baltic state.


After a brief period of independence between the two world wars,
Latvia was invaded in 1940 by the Soviet Union.


The Nazis chased the Soviets out of the Baltic state in 1941, and
Latvia fell under German occupation until 1944, when it was
"liberated" by the Red Army.


Like its Baltic neighbours, Latvia was forcibly incorporated into
the Soviet Union at the end of World War II and didn't regain
independence until 1991.


During both Soviet occupations, tens of thousands of Latvians
fled into exile or were deported or executed.


"We weren't thinking of Nazism back then; it was not on our
agenda," Skreija said.


Some 146,000 Latvians fought in the Legion. Many were forced to
join the Waffen SS unit but a good number volunteered to fight in
its ranks against the Soviets.


Some 52,000 Legionnaires died in combat or in later deportations
carried out by the Soviets.


Another 130,000 Latvians fought in the Soviet army; 36,000 of
them died, many fighting compatriots on the other side.


The Latvian parliament declared March 16 declared Legionnaires'
Day in 1998, to mark the day in 1944 when Legionnaires routed the
Soviet Red Army at the Velikaya River.


Two years later, parliament admitted it had made a mistake in
commemorating the defeat of the Russians and struck Legionnaires'
Day off the calendar.


But Legionnaires still pay tribute to their fallen colleagues on
March 16, drawing accusations from Moscow that Latvia is
glorifying fascism.


"The Legionnaires don't want publicity. Most of them want to just
retire peacefully," said Janis Atis Krumins, chairman of
'Daugavas Vanagi' (Hawks of Daugava), the organisation that first
marked Legionnaires' Day on March 16 in 1952.


Today, "this date is used to discredit our country," he said.


Sixty people were arrested in Riga last year on Legionnaires' Day
as the police quashed attempts by radical groups to stage
marches, all of which had been banned to prevent a repeat of the
violence that rocked the capital a year earlier.


Two years ago, radical left- and right-wing groups faced off
opposite the Freedom Monument in the heart of Riga, where
hundreds of people had gathered to pay tribute to Latvia's war
veterans.


Six groups have been authorised to stage events in Riga this
year, including the far-right Union of National Forces, which
will march under police surveillance to the Freedom Monument, and
the Legionnaires, who will remember fallen comrades in a ceremony
at the towering statue.

