

Huge deposits of pure frozen water have been found under the
southern pole of Mars following a probe by the European
spacecraft Mars Express, according to a study released here
Thursday.


"While the precise composition of the deposits is unknown, it is
believed they are predominantly water ice and that they represent
the largest known reservoir of H2O on the planet," said the
study, in the March 15 edition of Science magazine.


Researchers used signals sent by the Mars Advanced Radar for
Subsurface Ionospheric Sounding (Marsis), which penetrated some
3.7 kilometers (2.2 miles) below the planet's surface, to make
their calculations.


"We apply a technique commonly used to study the interior of ice
sheeets and glaciers on Earth, radar echo sounding, to study the
south pole layered deposits of Mars," added the study.


If the ice was to melt completely it would cover the entire Red
Planet to a depth of 11 metres (33 feet), the scientists
revealed.


The same instruments were used in November 2005 to detect
underground water for the first time on the planet, that time at
the north pole.


Earlier this month scientists said in a study published in Nature
that they had found evidence that Mars was once latticed by an
underground water system, proving the planet has had a long and
complex relationship with one of the potential ingredients for
life.


Today Mars, which like Earth was formed some 4.6 billion years
ago, is bone dry, its thin atmosphere almost entirely bereft of
water.


But most experts now agree that the planet was once covered with
seas and a balmy, Earth-like atmosphere, fueling speculation that
it could have harboured some form of life, even bacterial.


Even more tantalizing, in the light of the Nature study, is
recent evidence presented by NASA scientists that some water is
still flowing along the surface of Mars, presumably from
underground sources.


Pictures taken by the US Mars Global Surveyor orbiter detected
two gullies that the scientists said could only have been created
by a flow of liquid. The gullies had not existed when the region
was photographed earlier.


Water is one of three essential ingredients for life as we know
it, along with energy, such as sunlight, and elements like carbon
and oxygen.

