

The National Basketball Association fined Los Angeles Lakers
coach Phil Jackson 50,000 dollars on Thursday for accusing the
league of a "witch hunt" against superstar Kobe Bryant.


The Lakers organization was also fined 50,000 dollars, the NBA
said in a statement from league executive vice president of
basketball operations Stu Jackson.


"Los Angeles Lakers head coach Phil Jackson and the Lakers
organization have each been fined 50,000 dollars for Jackson's
public criticisms of the NBA," the statement said.


"Jackson and the Lakers have been fined for comments Jackson made
earlier this week regarding the NBA's recent review of several
on-court incidents involving Kobe Bryant."


Jackson's remarks on Tuesday came after Bryant was disciplined by
the league for the third time in six weeks for striking an
opposing player on the court.


Bryant was handed two one-game suspensions for hitting players in
the face while in the act of shooting - the first time on January
28 against San Antonio's Manu Ginobili and again last week
against Marko Jaric of Minnesota.


He was also assessed a flagrant foul after elbowing
Philadelphia's Kyle Korver in the jaw while dribbling up the
court on Friday.


"It shouldn't even have been a flagrant I," Jackson said of that
foul. "That's crazy. That's a vendetta. They have a witch hunt
going on. It's nuts. It's just becoming a witch hunt now."


Both Ginobili and Jaric have said they believed Bryant struck
them unintentionally while shooting. In the incident involving
Ginobili, no foul was called by game officials.


Nor was the flagrant foul in the 76ers game called on the court.
Instead league officials assessed the penalty several days later
based on video of the incident.


"It is an after the fact type of thing, and that is bothersome,"
Jackson said.


Jackson was fined 25,000 dollars earlier this season for
criticizing officiating of a game.


This fine, however, may come as a surprise to the veteran coach,
who said Wednesday he didn't expect to be punished.


"The idea of fines (is) about officiating and directly talking
about officials in a personal way that undermines the game. This
isn't about officiating at all," he said.


Bryant himself downplayed Jackson's comments on Wednesday, but
bridled at what he perceived as his portrayal in the media as a
"dirty" player. "I'm not a dirty player," Bryant said. "I never
have been. I never will be.


"You play your whole career just playing the right way, playing
hard and being aggressive. If someone wants to criticize me the
way I play on the basketball court, at least make it something
that's somewhat realistic. Say I shoot too much."

