

Palestinians unveiled a new unity cabinet on Thursday that they
hope will usher in a new era by stopping months of deadly
factional violence and ending a crippling international aid
boycott.


Following are some of the main events in the Palestinian
territories since the Islamist movement Hamas dramatically
trounced the Fatah party of president Mahmud Abbas in elections a
year ago.


2006


- Jan 25: Hamas (the Islamic Resistance Movement) scores a
resounding election victory over the previously dominant Fatah,
founded by the late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.


Israel, the United States and other Western countries, which
consider Hamas to be a terrorist group, refuse to recognise a
Hamas government but maintain their links with Abbas.


- March 28: Hamas government sworn in under Ismail Haniya.
Western powers later cut off most aid, worsening the already
parlous economic situation in the Palestinian territories. Hamas
maintains its steadfast refusal to renounce violence, recognise
Israel and honour interim peace deals.


- June 28: Israel launches a massive offensive against the Gaza
Strip after a soldier is captured by Palestinian militants.
Dozens of Hamas officials, including ministers and deputies, are
detained. The captured Israeli soldier remains in Palestinian
hands.


The following month the Gaza offensive is overshadowed by a
devastating war between the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah and
Israel.


- Sept 2: Civil servants in the territories begin an indefinite
strike over unpaid salaries.


- Oct 1: Eight people die when open violence erupts between Hamas
and Fatah, sparked by talks on forming a unity government.


- Nov 1-7: Israel launches an offensive on northern Gaza that
kills 56 Palestinians, many of them civilians. At the end of the
month, unity government talks collapse.


Dec 11-23: At least 20 people are killed in renewed factional
fighting after Abbas announces on December 16 that he will call
new elections.


Dec 23: Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert meets Abbas. Israel
promises to release some funds for the Palestinians amid talk of
reviving the Middle East peace process.


2007


Jan 4: Deadly fighting between Palestinians erupts again, with 13
people killed.


Jan 13: Civil servants end their strike.


Jan 21: Abbas meets exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal in
Damascus but they fail to reach agreement on a unity government.


Jan 25: Fierce clashes erupt again and fighting continues into
early February despite several attempts to restore calm.


Feb 2: The Middle East Quartet meets and agrees to accelerate
efforts towards creating a Palestinian state.


Feb 4: The Gaza ceasefire appears to take hold after fighting
that has killed some 100 Palestinians in two months.


Feb 7: Rival Palestinian leaders meet in the Muslim holy city of
Mecca at the invitation of Saudi King Abdullah, vowing not to
leave until they reach a deal.


Feb 8: The two sides sign a deal for Haniya to form a national
unity government after agreeing on sharing ministerial posts. "We
have achieved results that will serve our people," Abbas says.


March 11: A Hamas militant is killed in a gunfight between rival
factions at Beit Hanun in the Gaza Strip.


- Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Abbas meet for the
second time in less than a month, but with no apparent
breakthrough.


March 13: A member of the Hamas-controlled Executive Force shot
dead in Gaza City by unknown gunmen.


March 15: Palestinians unveil new unity cabinet they hope will
stop deadly factional violence and end the international aid
boycott.


- Israel says it will not deal with the new coalition, while the
European Union and the United States say they will withhold
judgment until they can study the new cabinet's platform.

