

The two candidates in Hong Kong's leadership battle went head-to-
head in a final live televised debate Thursday, just ten days
before the chief executive election.


Incumbent Beijing-backed leader Donald Tsang and his pro-
democracy challenger and barrister Alan Leong met face-to-face in
only the second-ever leadership debate in the territory following
the landmark contest earlier this month.


They traded barbs in a 90-minute session -- which was this time
thrown open to the public -- discussing questions from the
200-strong audience on issues including education, poverty,
unemployment, transport and competition law.


In his trademark bowtie, this time in yellow, Tsang -- seen as a
shoo-in for the vote decided by 800 mostly pro-Beijing elites on
March 25 -- spoke calmly and fluently, while Leong put up a
strong fight during the debate.


There was also heated debate on the thorny issue of the timing of
the territory's long-promised switch to full democracy -- which
has riven the former British colony since it reverted to the
Chinese rule in 1997.


"Hong Kong people must be given the opportunity to choose their
own chief executive and legislators. This could be made possible
without changing the (mini-constitution) Basic Law," said Leong,
donning a pink tie to match his campaign colours.


Hong Kong people do not have the rights to choose their own
leader and China has tight control in its political development.
Half a million people took to the streets in 2003 and 2004 to
demand full democracy in the territory.


Tsang said the Hong Kongers would need to first gain trust from
China.


"Everyone needs to understand that any change in policy ... would
need the agreement of the central government," he said.


Leong attacked Tsang for lacking a stance on the issue.


"Up until now, Mr Tsang is standing up here and he still hasn't
told us whether he supports universal suffrage or not. As a
leader of Hong Kong, he should take some responsibility," said
Leong, 49.


"I do not underestimate the difficulty in getting the central
government to agree to universal suffrage; but as a leader, you
shouldn't just listen to Beijing alone. You have to listen to the
public and make a push for universal suffrage."


Tsang, a 40-year career civil servant, retaliated by promising a
solution to the issue in his next five-year term if elected.


Under the British colonial rule, leaders were appointed by the
British monarch and since the city's handover of sovereignty to
China, they have been selected by the 800-member Election
Committee.


Leong is the first challenger to have garnered enough nominations
to enter the race.

