

Moroccan police have arrested 18 people and were hunting another
six following last weekend's suicide bombing in Casablanca, the
government said on Thursday.


Speaking before a weekly cabinet meeting in Rabat, Prime Minister
Driss Jettou condemned Sunday evening's blast at a cybercafe in
the port city, which killed the bomber and injured four others,
including a suspected accomplice.


"This attack will not affect Morocco's efforts towards
consolidating its democratic progress and its modernisation
project," he said.


The authorities believe bomber Abdelfettah Raydi and his
suspected accomplice, Youssef Khoudri, did not target the
cybercafe and were provoked by an argument with its supervisor.


But Raydi and several of those arrested were linked to the May
2003 suicide bombings in Casablanca, which killed 45 people
including 12 bombers.


Driss Lachgar, head of the socialist group in the chamber of
deputies, believes the biggest threat to Moroccan security comes
from within its borders.


"Morocco is targeted not just by Al-Qaeda but also by an
obscurantist, conservative Moroccan movement," he told AFP.


"For me, in this movement there is no difference between those
who carry weapons and those who use propaganda -- they all march
to the same beat."


Abdelilah Benabdeslam of the Moroccan Human Rights Association
(AMDH) blamed social inequality for the growing terrorist threat,
along with Morocco's "alignment with the United States in the war
on terror, which must end".


Both Raydi and Khoudri were unemployed and came from poor
backgrounds similar to those of the bombers in the 2003 attacks.


"The social life of the two March 11 suicide bombers is miserable
and leads just as much towards religious extremism as it does to
other paths such as drug trafficking and abuse," Benabdeslam told
AFP.


For his part, Abdelkrim Benatiq, the head of the Moroccan
workers' party (PTM), said he believed Morocco's moves towards
democracy "obstruct both the Islamists and neighbouring
repressive Maghreb states".


He reiterated the prime minister's call to press ahead with
democratic reform, saying: "We must continue until the vision of
society is achieved."


On Tuesday, the Moroccan authorities seized 200 kilos (440
pounds) of explosive ingredients, including nitrate and acetone,
in a house that police said was regularly visited by Raydi and
Khoudri.


The man who rented the house in the Moulay Rachid area of
Casablanca, four kilometres (2.5 miles) from the attack, is among
the six still being hunted.


According to police, this house had been a meeting point for
several terrorists and it was there that Raydi's identity card
was found.

