

African economies which are already groaning under the impact of
AIDS are being further burdened by the preventable scourge of
malaria, World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz said on Thursday.


Speaking at the launch in South Africa of a new foundation
created by local popular singer Yvonne Chaka Chaka, Wolfowitz
said a million lives were being lost every year from malaria --
far higher than the numbers who die of AIDS.


"We're losing a million people a year to a disease that is
preventable, and it's a terrible burden on people who don't die
from it," said Wolfowitz, a former senior Bush administration
official.


"It is an enormous drain on public health resources that are
already strained by the burden of AIDS," he added.


Chaka Chaka said the foundation aims to improve the way donor
funds are used in combating malaria, which kills a child every 30
seconds worldwide.


Curbing the preventable, yet often deadly disease, is hampered by
aid not reaching those who need it, she said.


"We aim to improve transparency and accountability, get long term
funding and work with ministries of health," said Chaka Chaka,
adding urgent action was needed to combat the sheer scale of
death from malaria every year.


Forty percent of the world's population are at risk of
contracting malaria, which kills 4,500 people a day. Most of
which are children under the age of five.


The launch of the Princess of Africa Foundation coincides with
the release of a report by British lawmakers in London, which
recognised that too much aid was being lost in the system.


"There is too much duplication of effort, too much money goes
astray and countries most affected by malaria cannot cope through
lack of human resources despite a ten-fold increase in funding
over 10 years," read the report.


Chaka Chaka, also a United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
goodwill ambassador for malaria, got involved in the struggle
against it after a band member died from the disease, which she
contracted during a tour to Botswana.

