

The US Senate Thursday rejected a plan by the Democratic majority
to set a timetable to withdraw US troops from Iraq by late March
2008, but agreed a separate resolution voicing support for the
forces.


The Senate rejected the measure formulated by the Democratic
leadership by 50 votes to 48, in the latest showdown between
Congress's Democratic leaders and Republican backers of President
George W. Bush.


The bill fell short of a simple majority and the 60-vote
supermajority needed to overcome Republican procedural hurdles
and pass out of the Senate.


Even had it become law, Bush had threatened to veto the
legislation, warning it would handcuff his ability to conduct war
policy as commander in chief.


By bringing the measure up however, Democrats were hoping to
critically up the pressure on Bush's Republican backers, and on
the president himself over the unpopular war.


Earlier, the Democratic Party in the House of Representatives
succeeded in forcing their bid to demand withdrawal of US combat
troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest though a key
congressional committee.


The Appropriations Committee voted to retain the deadline in a
provision in President George W. Bush's 120 billion dollar budget
request for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.


The Republican minority in the House had opposed the move, which
also threatened to compel withdrawal even before September next
year, if Bush cannot certify benchmarks for progress are being
met in Iraq.


The full House was expected to debate the measure next week.


Bush has threatened to veto that legislation.


Democratic leaders, while trying to curtail Bush's ability to
continue to wage war in Iraq, have stopped short of wielding
their power to cut funding for the conflict -- wary of being seen
as deserting US troops.


And in a separate move the US Senate voted 96-2 to pass a
resolution expressing support for troops in Iraq.


That resolution, offered by Democratic Senator Patty Murray,
states that Congress and the president have shared responsibility
for troops in wartime and for their medical care when they are
wounded.


The largely symbolic measure states that supporting the troops
also means giving them proper training before they are deployed.


Some Democrats have accused the Bush administration of sending
soldiers into harms way before they are ready to enter combat, or
are properly equipped.

