

Outspoken manager Mike Newell was Thursday sacked by Championship
team Luton Town.


Newell has oft courted controversy this season with his
revelations about bungs in the sport and also for a sexist tirade
launched at a female assistant referee.


But with the club struggling at the foot of the table, Luton
moved to stave off the threat of relegation by firing their
colourful boss.


Newell leaves the club second from bottom of the table, two
points adrift of safety after a run of five straight defeats.


Newell signed a new four-year deal at Kenilworth Road last August
but has endured an increasingly fractious relationship with the
club's board.


Following Tuesday's home defeat by Hull, Newell blamed his team's
position on the sale of some of its top players - Rowan Vine,
Kevin Nicholls, Carlos Edwards, Steve Howard and Curtis Davies.


"Where has the nine million pounds gone?" asked Newell. "Give me
the money and I will replace them - but I can't. We are in this
position because we sold our best players.


"Someone should investigate what is going on at this club."


Last November, Newell landed himself in hot water with the
Football Association by criticising assistant referee Amy Rayner,
who had officiated during his team's 3-2 home defeat by QPR.


Newell said: "She should not be here. I know that sounds sexist,
but I am sexist, so I am not going to be anything other than
that.


"It is absolutely beyond belief. When do we reach a stage when
all officials are women, because then we are in trouble?


"It is bad enough with the incapable referees and linesmen we
have, but if you start bringing in women, you have big problems."


Newell was fined 6,500 pounds and charged with improper conduct
for his outburst, while he also caused a stir in January 2006 by
claiming that corruption and bung-taking were rife in the English
game.


The 42-year-old took over at Kenilworth Road and led the Hatters
to promotion from League One in 2005, and kept them in the
Championship with ease last term.

