

The chief suspect in the September 11 attacks, Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, confessed to beheading US journalist Daniel Pearl "with
my blessed right hand," the Pentagon said Thursday.


The confession came during a hearing at the US military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as Mohammed, the number three leader of the
Al-Qaeda network, claimed responsibility for 31 plots around the
world, including the 2001 attacks on the United States.


"I decapitated with my blessed right hand the head of the
American Jew, Daniel Pearl, in the city of Karachi, Pakistan,"
Mohammed said in a statement he wrote, which was read to the
hearing by a military officer representing him.


"For those who would like to confirm, there are pictures of me on
the Internet holding his head," he said.


Pearl, 38, was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street
Journal, when he was abducted in the southern Pakistani city of
Karachi on January 23, 2002 while researching a story about
Islamic militants.


His kidnapping triggered a massive manhunt across Pakistan, as
his French wife, Mariane, who was heavily pregnant with the
couple's first child, maintained an anxious vigil.


Four weeks later a graphic video showing Pearl's decapitation was
delivered to the US consulate in Karachi. His remains were later
found in a compound on the outskirts of the city.


Mohammed's personal role in Pearl's killing had been blacked out
of the initial transcript of his March 10 hearing by the Pentagon
until the reporter's family had been notified, Pentagon spokesman
Bryan Whitman said.


The Pentagon released an ammended transcript of the hearing on
Thursday that restored passages about Pearl's beheading that
previously had been deleted.


In an oral statement, Mohammed, who is Pakistani, said Pearl's
beheading was not an Al-Qaeda operation.


"It's like beheading Daniel Pearl," he said. "It's not related to
Al-Qaeda. It was shared in Pakistani. Other group, Mujahedeen."


Pearl, who was based in Bombay, had traveled to Pakistan to
investigate the connections between Al-Qaeda and Richard Reid, a
British convert to Islam who tried to detonate explosives in his
shoes on a trans-Atlantic flight.


Mohammed claimed at his hearing that Pearl had been sent by
Israeli intelligence Mosad and by the US Central Intelligence
Agency to find out more about Reid, according to the transcript.


British-born Islamist militant Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh was
convicted in June 2002 of Pearl's murder and sentenced to death.
The sentence is currently under appeal. Three accomplices were
given life terms.


Omar's lawyer, Mohsin Imam, said in September last year that he
would use the new memoirs of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf
in the appeal because the book indicated that Mohammed and
another man had killed Pearl.


A new film, "A Mighty Heart," based the book of the same name
written by Mariane Pearl, is set for release later this year.


Shot in India, it stars Angelina Jolie as Mariane Pearl, and Dan
Futterman as the journalist, and is being produced by Jolie's
partner Brad Pitt.

