

British Prime Minister Tony Blair refused Thursday to apologize
for the Iraq invasion, insisting the country is not at civil war
despite mounting violence nearly four years after the 2003
conflict.


In a television interview days before the March 20 anniversary of
the US-led invasion, he insisted that deposing Saddam Hussein was
justified.


"I do not either regret the strength of our alliance with the US
or standing by the US president and the American people in the
aftermath of September 11 and I'm never going to do that," he
told Sky News.


He was speaking as car bombs and shootings claimed 26 lives and
the US military announced the deaths of five more troops, in the
latest day of bloody violence in Iraq.


The deaths brought to 3,205 the US military's losses in Iraq
since the March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


Blair paid tribute to British soldiers who joined US forces in
the country, saying they had "done extraordinary work in Iraq,
they've made very great sacrifices."


"It's a tragedy that so many have lost their lives. But they have
not lost their lives because we have been trying to do the wrong
thing in Iraq... We've been trying to do the right thing."


A total of 133 British troops have been killed in Iraq since
2003, along with the US casualties. Estimates of how many Iraqi
civilians have died range into the tens of thousands -- an NGO,
Iraq Body Count, puts the figure at 58,800 although that is seen
by some as a conservative figure.


Last month, Blair said that the number of British troops in Iraq
would be cut by 1,600 to about 5,500 in the next couple of months
as the Iraqi authorities assume more control in the British
sector.


Britain currently has about 7,100 troops in and around the
southern city of Basra. After the pull-out, some will stay in the
area into 2008 to help Iraqi forces in a support role.


In the live interview, Blair refused to say sorry for the 2003
war, saying he had no regrets about supporting US President
George W. Bush over the invasion of Iraq.


And he insisted that the country was not caught in a civil war,
despite the mounting daily death toll.


"It's not a country at civil war. The majority of people in Iraq
don't want this violence," Blair said.


"They don't want to go to war with each other. Small numbers of
extremists on either side who don't represent the majority are
trying to provoke people into a civil war. That's a completely
different thing."


Asked whether the lives of ordinary people were now worse than
under executed dictator Saddam Hussein, he said: "It's been
extremely tough, very challenging, it's a very difficult
situation."


But Blair blamed terrorists and sectarian elements for the
deaths, saying the people of Iraq had voted for a democratic
government.


"We're not making it worse, they're making it worse," he said.


"Until the Western world stops apologising for its values...
we're never going to defeat this."


A Pentagon report to the US Congress this week said the number of
attacks in Iraq during the last three months of 2006 was the
highest for any such period since 2003.

