

Five members of a British embassy group held captive in the
Ethiopian desert for nearly two weeks were reunited with their
families back in Britain amid emotional scenes Thursday.


Television pictures showed friends and family hugging each other
on the tarmac at Brize Norton Royal Air Force (RAF) base in
southern England, where they arrived from the Ethiopian capital
Addis Ababa.


"Words simply cannot express the overwhelming sense of relief
that the news oftheir release brings," said Michael Moore, head
of the British Council in Addis Ababa, whose wife Rosanna was
among those kidnapped.


The five themselves made no comments, but on Wednesday they
released a statement saying they had all been well treated --
although they also voiced concern for Ethiopians abucted with
them but still missing.


Several children also emerged with the ex-captives, holding their
parents' hands as they descended from the plane and mingled,
hugging and chatting, on the tarmac.


The three British men and two women -- one with dual British-
Italian nationality and one French national -- were abducted on
March 1 in northeast Ethiopia along with 13 Ethiopian drivers and
guides.


As well as Moore, the other four ex-captives are: Peter Rudge,
first secretary at the British embassy; Jonathan Ireland, an
aide; Malcolm Smart and Laure Beaufils who work for Britain's
international development ministry.


The Europeans were released Tuesday after being transported to
the Eritrean capital Asmara. From there they travelled back to
Addis Ababa to recover before flying back to Britain.


In their statement Wednesday they said one of the first things
they did after their release was to call their families.


"It was great to be able to tell them that we are well after all
they have had to go through in the last 13 days. We look forward
to being reunited with our family and friends," they said.


But they added: ""We need time to take stock of what has
happened, and see our families and friends. We ask that the media
leave us and our families in peace to allow us to come to terms
with our ordeal."


In Addis Ababa Thursday, more than a 100 people prayed at the
city's Saint Matthew Anglican church for the release of the eight
Ethiopians who remain missing.

