

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, who has swatted away
international condemnation over assaults on opposition leaders,
was once hailed for leading a peaceful and prosperous nation.


The 83-year-old, who is now the oldest leader in Africa, was
swept to power in a 1980 election as the liberator of the former
British colony of southern Rhodesia and has kept it since.


But after winning a fifth six-year term of office in 2002 in an
election which the opposition said was rigged, Mugabe has been
ostracised by the West and fellow African leaders are now keeping
their distance.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has accused him of
presiding over "an outpost of tyranny" while British Prime
Minister Tony Blair called the situation unravelling in Zimabwe
"truly tragic", but Mugabe made clear on Thursday that he did not
give a hoot for such critics.


"This is the West that has always supported the opposition
elsewhere, again showing its true colours. We don't accept their
criticism," he said.


It was characteristic defiance from a man who shows no sign of
wishing to retire and revealed his ambitions in a weekend
interview to stand for another term next year. Were he to serve
the full six years he would be 90.


Analysts say his desire to keep office is causing divisions
within his Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic Front
(ZANU-PF) that may ultimately prove more dangerous to his
survival prospects than the opposition led by Movement of
Democratic Change president Morgan Tsvangirai.


It was Tsvangirai who suffered defeat at the hands of Mugabe in
the March 2002 elections after a violent ballot that
international observers found tainted by fraud.


Campaigning that year, the former guerrilla leader returned to
rhetoric of the 1970s liberation war, calling his re-election bid
the "third chimurenga", or uprising against white rule.


Mugabe tried to paint the MDC as stooges of the white minority
who retained ownership of the best farming land after
independence, until he embarked on a controversial land reform
programme in 2000.


Some 4,000 farmers were forced to hand over their land in what he
trumpeted as a programme to right the injustices of the colonial
era.


While landless blacks were meant to be the beneficiaries, some
farms ended up in the hands of Mugabe supporters.


The land reform scheme and his crackdowns on opposition members,
judges and journalists triggered an uproar and "smart sanctions",
including travel bans, against Mugabe and his inner circle by the
European Union and the United States.


An intellectual who initially embraced Marxism, Mugabe was
praised when he won the election that ended white minority rule
in 1980, a few weeks after Zimbabwe gained independence.


Born on February 21, 1924, at Kutama Mission northwest of the
capital Harare, he qualified as a teacher at the age of 17.


He took his first political paces when he enrolled at Fort Hare
University in South Africa, where he met many of southern
Africa's future black nationalist leaders.


Mugabe then resumed teaching, moving to Northern Rhodesia (now
Zambia) and Ghana before returning to what was then Southern
Rhodesia in 1960.


As a member of various nationalist parties which were banned by
the white- minority government, he was detained with other
leaders in 1964 and spent the next 10 years in prison camps or
jail.


He used that period to consolidate his position in the Zimbabwe
African National Union and emerged from prison in November 1974
as ZANU leader. He then left for Mozambique, from where his
banned party was launching guerrilla attacks on Rhodesia.


Economic sanctions and war forced Rhodesian leader Ian Smith to
negotiate.


After ZANU-PF, which drew most of its support from the Shona
majority, swept to power in the 1980 election, Mugabe announced a
policy of reconciliation with the country's white minority but
most subsequently left.


Mugabe also crushed dissent among the minority Ndebele people
with his North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade, which killed an
estimated 20,000 suspected "dissidents".


In his early years Mugabe was widely credited with improving
health and education for the black majority. But social services
later declined and the AIDS epidemic shattered gains in health
care.


Inflation now stands at 1,730 percent while more than 80 percent
of the population live below the poverty line.

