

A new Palestinian unity government presented Thursday was hailed
in the Arab world but received only a guarded welcome from the
United States and Europe, while Israel formally rejected it
outright.


"We will wait until the government is actually in place and we
have an understanding of what their platform will be before we
make any final judgements about it," US State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said.


The European Union reaction to the new government, uniting the
radical Islamist Hamas movement with president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah party, was only slightly more upbeat.


"As we have said many times we are going to wait and see.
Fortunately we have to wait and see a little less time now," EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana said in Germany.


The Mideast Quartet -- the EU, the United States, Russia and the
United Nations -- expects any new Palestinian government to
recognise Israel, renounce violence and respect past agreements:
the so-called three principles.


If these criteria are met the Quartet has said it would lift a
financial embargo imposed directly on the Hamas-led government
after the militant group swept to power in elections last year.


White House spokesman Tony Snow urged Abbas to find ways to abide
by the internationally set conditions for Middle East peace, and
to set the stage for talks with Israel.


"Rather than trying to express disappointment, or whatever, we
still continue to hope that President Abbas is going to have the
ability to in fact proceed along those Quartet conditions so that
there can be talks with the government of Israel," he said.


Moscow, while welcoming the new government, expressed the hope
that it would end the climate of uncertainty and chaos.


"We hope the government formed .. will become a factor that
weighs towards the stabilisation of the situation in the
(Palestinian) territories, ending the disagreements and chaos,"
said foreign ministry spokesman Mikhail Kamynin.


But Israel rejected contact with any government including Hamas,
which it regards as a terrorist organisation.


"We will not recognise or deal with this government or with
members of this government and we expect the international
community to stand firm in their demand to adopt the three
principles," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


A senior Israeli official earlier told AFP however that if Gaza
militants released an Israeli soldier captured last year and
stopped firing rockets at Israel, it would adopt a "pragmatic
approach that will allow working with the government."


But French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin was more
optimistic.


"I believe it can put an end to the current blockage and I hope
so," he said, speaking from New York after a meeting with UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


The Organisation of the Islamic Conference urged world powers --
and in particular the quartet -- to respond by lifting the
financial embargo.


In a statement from the Jeddah-based 57-member organisation, OIC
Secretary General Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu expressed the hope that
the new government would "receive full support from the Islamic
world and the international community."


Arab League Secretary General Amr Mussa said the new government
was "crucial to achieving stability and taking forward the peace
process which president Mahmud Abbas leads in the name of every
Palestinian."


"It's an important step towards ending political tensions, which
will allow Palestinians to focus on their main cause: the
creation of a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital,"
Mussa said in a statement.


Saudi King Abdullah, whose country hosted meetings between the
rival Palestinian factions last month that paved the way for the
formation of the new government, also hailed the development,
official media said.


In a telephone conversation with Abbas the king "congratulated
(him) on the success of Palestinian efforts in forming a
Palestinian national unity government," SPA news agency reported.

