

Greece on Thursday reacted to a complaint from the Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) over a video allegedly
showing Greek soldiers chanting anti- FYROM songs, insisting that
it is not prejudiced against its tiny northern neighbour.


"Greece firmly rejects any notion of bigotry," foreign ministry
spokesman George Koumoutsakos told AFP.


The recording, whose authenticity is under investigation,
apparently shows Greek conscripts chanting "I'm a Macedonian, my
blood is Greek, and I do not grant Skopje the name (Macedonia)."


A Greek foreign ministry official said the complaint seemed timed
to gain diplomacy points in the two nations' long wrangle over
Skopje's official name.


"The complaint concerns a recording apparently made in November,"
he said.


"We estimate that it is designed to neutralise the negative
impact of their (recent) decision to name Skopje's airport after
Alexander the Great," the official said.


Athens and Skopje are locked in a 14-year dispute over the tiny
Balkan nation's name, which the United Nations has sought to
mediate.


After breaking away from Belgrade in 1991, Skopje has sought to
use the name Republic of Macedonia, as laid down in its
constitution.


Greece claims it has the right to sole use of the name Macedonia,
as applied to a northern Greek region which was the birthplace
and seat of power of Alexander the Great, the famed warrior-king
considered by Greeks as an integral part of their national
heritage.


It threatens to block its neighbour's ambitions to join the
European Union and NATO unless it agrees to a compromise in the
name standoff.


FYROM officially renamed its capital's main airport after
Alexander the Great in December.


The UN's negotiator on the dispute, special envoy Matthew Nimetz,
commented that the move would have an adverse effect on talks.


This is the second dispute over an alleged Greek army video
insulting one of Greece's neighbours.


Earlier this month, Greece's defence ministry "unequivocally"
condemned a video apparently showing Greek soldiers training to
anti-Albanian songs after its broadcast sparked angry protests in
Albania.

