

The Cyprus parliament on Thursday voted in favour of adopting the
euro as planned on January 1, 2008 despite opposition from a
senior partner in the island's ruling coalition.


The 56-seat house in Cyprus, which joined the European Union in
May 2004, passed the legislation by 36 votes to 15 against after
a three-hour debate. Five deputies were absent.


Safe passage was only been assured after the right-wing
opposition party Disy agreed to back the euro bill although it
indicated last week that it could scupper the vote.


The nominally communist Akel could not vote down the bill with
its 18 seats alone, but a 'no' vote by Disy, which also has 18
deputies, would have killed it.


Disy deputies voted in favour following government assurances
that official policy was to enter the eurozone next year with
minimal negative impact on Cypriot society.


Akel MP Stavros Evagorou urged a delay to give a "transitional
economy" more time to harmonise with Europe and allow extra
funding for social programmes.


Nicolas Papadopoulos, son of President Tassos Papadopoulos, said
his Diko party in the coalition wanted to "adopt the euro as soon
as possible", warning that Cyprus could lose out on foreign
investments if it failed to do so.


Cyprus had to approve EU-mandated legislation in order to adopt
the euro as planned as the European Central Bank deadline for the
vote was Thursday.


Legislation covers the conversion process, year-long dual pricing
after the pound is locked against the euro, dual circulation for
one month, and 100,000-euro fines for profiteers under a "naming
and shaming" policy.


Akel's no vote caused an embarrassing rift among the three-party
alliance of Papadopoulos.


Akel argued it wanted to delay entry by one year because of
concerns over the effect it could have on low-income groups. It
fears a government austerity drive to meet euro convergence
criteria will hinder social welfare programmes.


But Papadopoulos said his strongly pro-euro government could not
pick and choose when to enter the eurozone. Employers and
industrialists also warned that a no vote would be "catastrophic
for the economy".


Under the terms of its membership of the European Union, Cyprus
is obliged to adopt the euro, though the timing is not specified.
The island formally applied last month to join the eurozone.


The next step in the path toward adopting the euro is due to come
in May, when the European Commission and the European Central
Bank assessing whether Cyprus meets strict macroeconomic targets
on public finance, inflation, interest rates and exchange rates.


Gross Domestic Product is expected to grow by around 3.9 percent
in 2007 and inflation is expected to be contained at 2.5 percent.
Another key target is to have a balanced budget by 2010 and
reduce public debt to 46 percent of GDP.


The Cyprus pound currently trades at about 1.73 euros and is
expected to be locked in against the euro by around June-July.

