

Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara ended Bermuda's early
celebrations with solid half-centuries as Sri Lanka posted 321-6
in their opening World Cup match here on Thursday.


Skipper Jayawardene (85) and left-handed Sangakkara (76) put on
150 for the third wicket to prop up the innings after their team
had won the toss on a good batting track at the Queen's Park
Oval.


Chamara Silva built on the duo's effort with a 48-ball 55 not
out.


Bermuda enjoyed the best phase of their Cup debut early in the
morning before being dominated by Jayawardene and wicketkeeper-
batsman Sangakkara, who gathered runs with consummate ease
against both pace and spin.


Sri Lanka looked in trouble for a brief spell when left-handed
opener Sanath Jayasuriya got a nasty blow on his hand in the
opening over and Jayawardene was dropped first ball.


Playing in his fifth and last World Cup, Jayasuriya needed on-
field medical attention after being struck by a Kevin Hurdle
delivery. He soon overcame the pain and went on to add 62 for the
opening wicket with Upul Tharanga.


Jayasuriya contributed a brisk 22 before being smartly caught by
Oliver Pitcher at point off Saleem Mukuddem, who became the first
Bermudian bowler to take a wicket in the World Cup.


Mukuddem nearly got a second successive wicket, but burly Dwayne
Leverock grassed a regulation catch at lone slip to let off
Jayawardene. The Sri Lankan captain got another 'life' when he
was dropped on 51 by the same fielder.


The normalcy was soon restored as the Sri Lankan captain and
Sangakkara exposed Bermuda's bowling limitations with their
impressive knocks. When Sri Lanka lost the third wicket, they
were already in a strong position.


Sangakkara struck six fours in his 83-ball knock before he fell
in a bid to step up the run-rate. He attempted a big shot off
spinner Leverock and was caught by Jeneiro Tucker, who took a
well-judged running catch at the boundary.


But there was no respite for the Cup debutants as Jayawardene
added 39 brisk runs for the fourth wicket with Silva.


Jayawardene hit two sixes and six fours in his 90-ball knock for
his 35th half- century before falling to superb diving catch by
Kevin Hurdle at deep mid-wicket off seamer Lionel Cann.


Bermuda fielded enthusiastically and held three brilliant
catches, but their bowling left a lot to be desired as they
conceded 30 extras.

