

The budget for the 2012 Olympics has soared to 9.3 billion pounds
(18 billion dollars), nearly four times more than the first
projections of how much it would cost to stage the Games in
London.


The new figures, outlined by the British government in parliament
on Thursday, drew allegations of financial incompetence from the
opposition.


But leading figures involved in securing and organising the
Olympics insisted the investment would pay off in terms of
increased participation in sport and the regeneration of the
rundown area of east London which will host the Games.


When Britain won the Olympics in 2005, the cost of building the
Olympic Park and main venues and the required upgrading of
transport and other infrastructure was projected at 2.4 billion
pounds.


That estimate quickly rose to three billion and a further billion
pounds was earmarked by the government for a regeneration
programme that includes the construction of 40,000 homes,
improved transport links and sports and community facilities.


In a statement to the House of Commons, Culture Minister Tessa
Jowell said the construction/regeneration costs had now risen to
a combined total of 4.8 billion pounds. The government must also
fund an unanticipated Value Added Tax (VAT) bill of 840 million
pounds on the construction costs.


A further 2.7 billion pounds has been allocated to a contingency
fund to allow for future increases in the budget.


The rest of the 9.3 billion total is accounted for by 600 million
pounds in security costs and 390 million pounds for the
Paralympics and the funding of community sports coaches.


Jowell said two thirds of the cost -- around six billion pounds
-- would be provided by central government.


A further 2.2 billion pounds will be provided by Britain's
National Lottery -- 675 million pounds more than previously
envisaged -- with the balance coming from local authorities in
London, who have agreed to stump up an additional 300 million.


The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, has pledged that this will
not lead to any increase in local taxes or transport costs for
Londoners, beyond those already announced.


"The Government's announcement gives Londoners real certainty
about the costs of preparing for the Games," Livingstone said on
Thursday.


"The Olympics are a once-in-a-generation opportunity for
businesses of all sizes across the capital, and will be a once-
in-a-lifetime experience for Londoners."


The new figures provoked an angry reaction from the opposition
Conservative party, with shadow Olympics Minister Hugh Robertson
describing the increases as "a sign of massive financial
incompetence from the Government."


Robertson added: "The two largest cost over-runs, VAT and
contingency, were perfectly predictable at the time of the bid."


There was also concern that the increased contribution from the
National Lottery will have a negative impact on grass-roots
sports which rely on its funding.


Richard Yule, chief executive of the English Table Tennis
Association, said the government was undermining one of the key
aims of the London Games -- increasing ordinary Britons'
participation in sport.


"This cut in funding to community sport will impact on the
ability of national governing bodies to capitalise on the once-
in-a-lifetime motivational impact of a home Olympics to deliver
an increase in participation through their clubs and volunteers,"
Yule said.


Sport England chairman Derek Mapp echoed that criticism, saying
the cuts which will follow the transfer of increased funds from
the National Lottery to the Olympics "seriously endangers the
creation of a sporting legacy from the 2012 Games."


But Sebastian Coe, the former Olympic 1500m champion who heads
the London organising committee, insisted no Briton would end up
regretting the Games coming to the capital.


"The Games will transform the East End of London, bring huge
transport improvements to the whole city and fantastic sports
facilities for the whole of the UK," said Coe.

