

Leading campaign groups joined UN human rights chief Louise
Arbour in a staunch defence of the Human Rights Council's ability
to investigate countries Thursday, amid fears that those powers
might be removed.


Some governments that have come under scrutiny want to remove the
appointment of Special Rapporteurs, the experts who investigate
countries of particular concern, diplomats said.


But human rights groups have dubbed the Special Rapporteurs "the
eyes and ears" of the UN's rights mechanism.


Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan has praised the experts'
"remarkable" achievements under the predecessor body, the
Commission.


The 47-member assembly formed last year has until June to
finalise its rules on "special procedures", the formal name for
this investigative process.


"The special procedures are the core of the UN human rights
mechanism," said Irene Khan, secretary general of Amnesty
International.


"Kofi Annan called it the jewel in the crown, our fear is that
some governments are trying to sell the crown jewels," she added.


Amnesty said a strong United Nations needed a strong Council to
act as a human rights watchdog.


The campaign group Human Rights Watch said in a statement: "The
Commission's failing was not that it addressed too many human
rights situations, but too few."


Some countries like Cuba want to eliminate the process, which
supporters believe was one of the successful parts of the
Council's discredited predecessor body.


After Havana's record on civil liberties was sharply criticised
by the UN Special Rapporteur on Cuba, Christine Chanet, she was
barred from carrying out missions in the country.


Algeria has suggested a "code of conduct", but western diplomats
and human rights groups fear that could amount to a straitjacket.
Developing countries command a majority in the Council at the
moment.


Arbour, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, told the
Council Wednesday that the process of country examinations was
one of "the essential tools that the Council has."


"To ensure universal cover and avoid gaps in human rights
protection, the Council should encourage states to reinforce
their cooperation," she added. That would underline their role as
an alert mechanism.


A senior European Union official signalled recently that an
unravelling of the process would be unacceptable.


"For us it is also essential, a red line, that we have country
procedures, rapporteurs and resolutions," the official said.


Human Rights Watch warned Thursday that while diplomats discussed
the Council's future behind-the-scenes, violations in 26
countries urgently needed to be highlighted.


"Addressing severe abuses shouldn't be put on hold while the
Human Rights Council finds its way," said Peggy Hicks, advocacy
director at HRW.


HRW notably voiced concern that the Council might even end
current examinations of Uzbekistan and Iran under a confidential
procedure that allows for an investigation without the details
being released.


"The Council should be greatly expanding its reach, but instead
it's poised to shut the door on abuses in Uzbekistan and Iran,
two of the few countries it's looking at now," Hicks said.


Hicks cited the bloody clampdown on protestors in Uzbekistan in
2005; and continuing repression in Iran, where the number of
executions rose by 70 percent last year alone.


The Council's current session ends on March 30.

