

The World Hurdle, feature race of the third day of the Cheltenham
festival, proved painful for punters with the shock early fall of
heavily-backed favourite Black Jack Ketchum.


Jonjo O'Neill's 2-1 shot met an early hurdle all wrong and
executed a somersault leaving champion jockey Tony McCoy holding
his head in his hands in frustration.


The groans from his backers were only matched by the sighs of
relief emanating from the layers in the betting ring -
appropriately the race itself was sponsored by Britain's biggest
bookmaking firm.


With Black Jack busted it was left to Inglis Drever to take the
spoils to repeat his 2005 win in the Grade One test.


Howard Johnson's charge held off a spirited challenge from Mighty
Man to hold on by three quarters of a length in the hands of
jockey Paddy Brennan.


Brennan was lucky to be riding as he'd taken a hefty tumble
himself 24 hours earlier on Ashley Brook in the Champion Chase
which saw another hot favourtite, Well Chief, hit the Cotswold
turf.


Brennan said: "I heard a roar from the crowd and knew Black Jack
had gone. I thought I'd be on the floor myself at one point but
this is some horse and it's a great training performance by
Howard to get him back to his best."


"This makes it all worth while," said Johnson.


"Hopefully we'll be back next year."


Earlier Graham Lee was one of the happiest figures at the meeting
when he broke a losing run of 49 rides at jump racing's Olympics
when partnering L'Antartique to land the opening handicap chase.


The 20-1 shot stayed on gamely up the hill to notch up a double
for the week for trainer Ferdy Murphy.


The Irishman said: "I trained the winner of this race for the
same owners back in 1980!"


"I was three months pregnant then," recalled part owner Anne
Durkan.


"Now I've got a grown up 27 year old along with me this
afternoon!"


Monet's Gardens, 7-4 favourite for the Ryanair Chase, dislikes
travelling and was only despatched to the Cotswolds track from
his north of England stable earlier on Thursday after being woken
up at three o'clock in the morning for an early breakfast.


Crozan it was who led the field until a tumble at the fourth last
fence to leave a tired Taranis to narrowly land the spoils from
the sprightly Our Vic who had looked down and out turning for
home.


Taranis (9-2) is a fellow inmate of Paul Nicholls' stable which
has hot favourite Kauto's Star in action in Friday's Gold Cup.


As for Monet's Gardens, all the special preparations to get him
to the track in a relaxed frame of mind proved to no avail as he
wilted up the hill to finish fourth.

