

A US television network Wednesday pulled the plug on one of
America's most popular talk show hosts as a furor over his racial
slurs against a women's basketball team grew into a media frenzy.


MSNBC cable television dropped veteran "shock jock" Don Imus a
week after he triggered a national firestorm by characterizing
the mostly African-American Rutgers University team as a group of
"nappy-headed hos (whores)."


MSNBC's parent company NBC News acted after a clamor mounted for
Imus' dismissal and major advertisers started to shun the "Imus
in the Morning" program, which is run by CBS Radio and simulcast
by MSNBC.


"These comments were deeply hurtful to many many people," NBC
News President Steve Capus said in a broadcast announcement of
Imus's sacking.


He said the network had concluded that "there should not be any
room for this sort of conversation and dialogue on the air. It
was the only decision that we could reach."


Capus denied his decision was influenced by the withdrawal of
advertising by powerful sponsors like American Express, Sprint
Nextel, and General Motors.


Meanwhile CBS board member Bruce Gordon, the former head of the
powerful NAACP rights group, told CNN television Wednesday that
he wanted the network to cancel Imus's show.


"As an African-American, I believe that Imus has crossed the
line, a very bright line that divides our country," said Gordon.


"His remarks are so significant that I believe that the right
outcome is for him to be terminated."


Both NBC and CBS had already announced that Imus, 67, would be
suspended for two weeks. But the move to cast him off MSNBC
completely came as the clamor by anti- racism activists and the
media drumbeat reached a climax.


The Imus case dominated the news coverage of US cable channels
and splashed across the front pages of newspapers, underscoring
the country's sensitivity to racial epithets.


Imus has repeatedly apologized on-air for his remark and sought a
private meeting with the Rutgers players, and his supporters have
argued that what he said pales compared to the language even more
coarse, provocative and racist in art forms such as gangsta rap.


Caught in the middle were many of the movers and shakers of US
society, from pundits to presidential candidates, who have been
guests on Imus's show and now must weigh the risks of a return
visit.


Former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani, a leading contender for the
Republican presidential nomination, was among those willing to
give Imus another shot.


"I would appear on his program again, sure," Giuliani was quoted
as telling reporters. "I believe he understands he made a very,
very big mistake."


But Democratic presidential candidate Senator Barack Obama, who
appeared on the show two years ago, said Imus should be dropped
by the networks.


"He didn't just cross the line ... he fed into some of the worst
stereotypes that my two young daughters are having to deal with
today in America," said Obama, himself an African-American, on
ABC television.


Imus started his career at a small radio station in California in
1968 and attracted as many devoted followers as enemies with his
sharp-tongued brand of "insult humor."


He has never flinched from taking on the politically powerful and
has often found himself at the center of controversy.


In 1996 he created headlines with biting criticism of then-
president Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary at a dinner of White
House radio and television correspondents, launching an acidic
attack on the Clintons' allegedly shady land deals and the
president's extramarital affairs.


On her presidential campaign website Tuesday, Hillary Clinton
praised the Rutgers team while she blasted Imus.


"Don Imus's comments about them were nothing more than small-
minded bigotry and coarse sexism. They showed a disregard for
basic decency and were disrespectful and degrading to African
Americans and women everywhere."

