

Herewith the text of a letter read out in London Thursday by the
father of missing BBC journalist Alan Johnston, calling on his
captors to release him and urging the newsman not to lose hope.


"Hello old son,


"I don't know if you will see this but I just felt that I wanted
you to know how distressed and sorry we all are that you were
taken.


"You had warned us frequently that the chances were always there
that you would be kidnapped and we were prepared in a way for
this to happen. Nevertheless when it came it was still a
considerable shock.


"Now you have not to worry about us. Your Mum and Trini and I are
hanging in there and trying to keep a stiff upper lip. The
support we have had from your friends and colleagues at home and
abroad has been phenomenal, especially the BBC who have cosseted
us and to whom our profuse thanks must go for keeping us abreast
of the situation.


"There are so many people worldwide all hoping and praying for
your release, not least of which I am sure, are the vast majority
of the Palestinian population, many of whom have told us they are
ashamed that you were kidnapped. We know how much you enjoyed
your work there.


"Your fellow local journalists are doing a magnificent job
holding demonstrations calling for your early release.


"There is so much sympathy for your plight around the globe and
we are overwhelmed at such support, all of which helps to buoy us
up during the past seemingly interminable four weeks.


"I would like to say something to those who are holding you.


"You have families. Please think about what this is doing to my
family, including in particular the distress and deep deep
concern Alan's mother and sister have had to endure for all these
long weeks.


"As I have said before - please - let my son go, NOW, TODAY!


"Alan, all our heartfelt, warmest fondest love is sent to you
from all your family and in the fervent hope that you will be
released unharmed.


"Chin up my son,


"Trini, Raymond, Alastair and, as always, your ever-loving Mum
and Dad"

