

Toyota Motor Corp. Thursday named the head of its fast-growing
North American operations as its first foreign director,
reflecting the expanding global reach of Japan's largest
automaker.


American Jim Press, 60, who has steered Toyota through a phase of
rapid expansion in the world's largest auto market, will join the
board along with eight new Japanese directors, subject to
shareholder approval in June.


The promotion of Press, who has worked for Toyota for more than
three decades, is part of an effort by the Japanese giant to make
its top management more international as it grows ever more
reliant on overseas sales.


"What we're trying to do is to heighten the level of our
management on a global scale," said Toyota spokesman Paul
Nolasco.


"We've been managing this company largely with Japanese-only
management so we thought that we should probably turn to somebody
who has, for example, a very long experience in our North
American operations," he added.


Toyota, the world's second largest automaker which is on track to
overtake General Motors as the global number one, has been
expanding its production in the United States to try to avert
potential trade friction with Washington.


While disgruntled auto workers are no longer attacking imported
cars in parking lots, Toyota has still taken some flack as its
sales overtake those of DaimlerChrysler and Ford.


Press told reporters in Detroit last month that Toyota was not
afraid that its rapid growth in the US would trigger a backlash.


"The reality is this environment is quite different than when we
consider the word backlash in the context of the past," he said.


Press is already Toyota's highest-ranking American and credited
for much of its US success, which contrasts sharply to the woes
of US rivals such as General Motors and Ford.


He started his career at Ford but left after less than two years,
joining the Japanese automaker in 1970 when it was far behind the
Big Three in the United States, and worked his way up the
corporate ladder.


He is already a managing officer at Toyota, just below the
boardroom level, which now comprises 25 directors but will expand
to 30 after the new appointments.


Under his watch, sales of Toyota's popular Prius hybrid, the
luxury Lexus brand and the Camry have flourished in the United
States.


Toyota was the pioneer of environmentally-friendly hybrids, which
proved a major hit in the United States whose own automakers have
spent the last decade focusing on gas-guzzling sports utility
vehicles.


It recently announced plans to build its eighth North American
factory in the southern state of Mississippi.

