

Bolton manager Sam Allardyce says that English clubs' domination
this year of the Champions League underlines the Premiership's
position as the best league in the world.


Liverpool made it three English sides in the semi-finals of this
year's competition on Wednesday when they completed a 4-0
aggregate win over Dutch side PSV Eindhoven.


Manchester United and Chelsea reached the last four on Tuesday
defeating AS Roma of Italy and Valencia of Spain.


With Liverpool taking on Chelsea and Manchester United going up
against AC Milan, there is the possibility of a first all-English
final in Europe's premier club competition.


Allardyce said the strength of the league goes under-appreciated
in England and that it takes success at continental level to make
people sit up and take notice.


"It's been a terrific week for English clubs," he said.


"We like to make a statement in the Premiership, and there would
be no better statement than to get two English clubs in the final
of the Champions League, and hopefully Tottenham in the final of
the UEFA Cup.


"That would tell everybody the Premiership is the best because we
all have a tendency in this country to knock what we've got.


"We don't appreciate what we have when it's under our noses, but
everybody else outside of this country does.


"Finishing the season like that would tell everybody else to stop
knocking (the league) and keep promoting it.''


Allardyce's comments found support from Tottenham manager Martin
Jol.


"It's evidence. There was a discussion recently in Europe about
which is the best league. Now they know," the Dutchman said.


"It's the truth, if you have three teams in the last four of the
Champions League then what more can I say?


"The Spanish league is strong, they won both European cups last
year and have three in the UEFA Cup this year, but you can't
compare it to the three in the Champions League."


Jol also singled out Manchester United for their crushing 8-3
aggregate win over Roma, claiming they had humbled potential
competition winners with their performance.


"Roma was a dark horse to win the Champions League, only the
insiders knew that.


"To beat them was probably the best result in the last five
years. I can remember another one with Valencia, probably 20
years ago, 7-1 against Napoli, but this is unbelievable."

