

The European Central Bank sat down to its regular monthly policy-
setting meeting here on Thursday, with the financial markets
unanimous that the bank would hold its key interest rates steady
after raising them last month.


The ECB's rate-setting governing council is expected to hold
eurozone borrowing costs steady at 3.75 percent after raising
them by a quarter of a percentage point on March 8.


Also attending the meeting was the EU's commissioner for economic
and monetary affairs, Joaquin Almunia, and Eurogroup president
and Luxembourg premier, Jean- Claude Juncker.


The rate decision was expected to be announced at 1:45 pm (1145
GMT), followed by a press conference at 2:30 pm (1230 GMT) where
ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet would explain the reasoning
behind the move.


The ECB, known as guardian of the euro, has raised its benchmark
"refi" refinancing rate seven times in the past 16 months -- in
December 2005, in March, June, August, October, December 2006 and
in March this year, each time by a quarter of a percentage point.


The refi rate is now at its highest level in five and a half
years.


Nevertheless, with the eurozone economy in a robust upturn, the
ECB is expected to tighten monetary conditions still further in
the coming months, not least to counter the inflationary effects
of a possible renewed rise in oil prices and higher-than-expected
wage agreements in the single currency area.


Germany's powerful IG Metall labour union, for example, is
demanding wage increases of 6.5 percent for the 3.4 million
workers in the German engineering and metal-working industry in
the current wage talks.


The European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) on Thursday urged
the ECB not to interfere in wage talks, rejecting the argument
that high wage increases could fuel inflation.


"The ECB should stop meddling in wage talks," the ETUC's deputy
general secretary, Reiner Hoffmann, told the daily Frankfurter
Rundschau in an interview.


Wage policy did not represent any inflationary threat in Europe,
he insisted.


"Company profits have risen meteorically, but not workers'
income," Hoffmann said.


And in Germany in particular, "there is a lot of catching up to
do" for workers to participate in the economic upturn, he added.

