

The International Energy Agency warned on Thursday that the OPEC
oil producers' group might have cut its production too much, with
insufficient current output eroding world stock levels.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
decided to cut its production twice at the end of last year to
help support prices that were falling at the time.


"Our opinion is that crude supply is too tight and with prices
close to 70 dollars a barrel the market is sending a signal that
it needs more oil," said the editor of the IEA's monthly oil
market report, Lawrence Eagles.


In a warning that prices could rise further, he added: "We have
the potential to see a tightening of the market over the course
of the next few months if OPEC output stays where it is."


The IEA monthly report for April, published Thursday, stated that
OPEC output in March was at a two-year low, its lowest level
since January 2005.


Falling stock levels was one of the factors that drove oil prices
higher over the last month to an average of 68 dollars per barrel
in early April, said the IEA, an energy watchdog that advises
rich oil-consuming countries.


Stocks are seen as a safety cushion for consuming countries and
low stock levels cause prices to rise.


"OPEC supply curbs since last autumn have coincided with two
quarters of heavy OECD stock draws and output remains below the
level needed to generate the usual Spring crude stock build," the
report warned.


Strong demand for gasoline in the United States, refinery
maintenance, disruption to oil production in Iraq and Nigeria,
and geopolitical tension over Iran also pushed up prices in the
last month, the IEA said.


The IEA said that inventories in OECD countries fell by 80.5
million barrels in February "on declining product stock in all
regions and a crude draw in the Pacific."


Forward cover, which means the number of days of consumption
covered by oil stocks, was "declining counter-seasonally," the
IEA warned.


World oil output fell by 265,000 barrels per day in March on a
monthly basis to 85.3 million bpd, with OPEC output down 165,000
bpd at 30.1 million bpd.


OPEC maintains that there is adequate supply to the market at the
moment, with high prices being caused by geopolitical tensions
such as the standoff last month when Iran captured 15 British
sailors.


"The high prices of late are due to the geopolitical situation.
It has nothing to do with the fundamentals," OPEC President
Mohammed al-Hamili, who is also oil minister for the United Arab
Emirates, said last week.


IEA analyst Eagles said that gasoline stocks in the United States
had fallen sharply in the last month and that crude stocks risked
a similar fall in the months ahead.


Gasoline stocks "have gone from a position of adequacy to a
position of tightness in the space of a month," he said.


"Our concerns about OPEC market management is that it doesn't
take very long for stocks to tighten, but it takes a while for
crude supplies to get to the market and be processed," he said.


Global crude prices extended gains on Thursday as traders weighed
up the latest data from the US Department of Energy that showed a
heavier-than-expected fall in gasoline stocks in the week to
April 6.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 61
cents to 68.45 dollars per barrel in London electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 72 cents to 62.73 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.

