

PPR chief executive, Francois-Henri Pinault, said Thursday that
the French luxury goods empire would not raise its 5.3-billion-
euro (7.1-billion-dollar) offer for German sportsgear maker Puma.


"As I've said, this is the final and firm price and I won't move
from that," Pinault told a news conference here.


In a surprise announcement on Tuesday, PPR announced it had
agreed to buy a 27-percent stake in Puma and launch a full public
takeover offer for the rest in in a bid that valued the German
company at a total 5.3 billion euros.


However, at their annual meeting on Wednesday, Puma shareholders
complained that the price tag of 330 euros per share was too low.


Puma shares have risen more than 10 percent since PPR unveiled
its offer, rising as high as 350 euros on Wednesday.


However, the shares were lower on Thursday, showing a loss of
2.13 percent at 342.65 euros.


Pinault said PPR would not set any minimum acceptance bid for its
offer, but would be "more than happy" if it could secure a stake
of more than the 27.1 percent it had already acquired.


The current takeover offer was purely voluntary, since under
German law, PPR would only be obliged to launch a full public
takeover offer once it had amassed more than 30 percent of Puma.


Nevertheless, the French group, which owns luxury brands such as
Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, was convinced that the price of 330
euros was "fair and one which wanted to offer to all
shareholders," Pinault continued.


The price represented a premium of 24 percent over the average
share of Puma shares during the month prior to April 3, he said.


At the news conference, Puma CEO Jochen Zeitz, weclomed "our new
shareholders PPR" and insisted that the tie-up between the German
"sports lifestyle" brand and PRR's luxury brands such as Gucci
and Yves Saint Laurent would not lead to any "cannibalisation."


Cannibalisation is the term used when one part of a company grows
by taking sales from another.


While Puma CEO Zeitz has insisted that the price was "fair" and
recommended shareholders take up the offer, he said in a
television interview earlier this week that he did not exclude a
possible higher bid from PPR.


On Thursday, Zeitz insisted that a rival bid from a third party
was "highly unlikely."


There has been speculation that arch-rival Nike could also make a
counter bid.


Zeitz also said that he had no plans to leave the company after
the takeover by PPR.


"I have a contract that runs until 2009, and I've been assured
that I'll stay on board as long as I'm wanted," Zeitz said.

