

After decades of misrule Bangladeshis hailed Thursday moves to
tackle the nation's political dynasties, with the last prime
minister under virtual house arrest and an opposition leader
charged with murder.


The top opposition leader, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, was Wednesday
charged with the murder of four people during political unrest in
October. She has also this week been accused of extortion by a
Malaysian company.


The military-backed authorities have allowed outgoing premier
Khaleda Zia to meet only four people and forced her to seek
approval from the police intelligence department before venturing
out of her house in Dhaka's army cantonment house, which is
heavily guarded, her aides say.


Despite being under emergency rule since January, ordinary people
have supported the moves by the government, saying Bangladesh
needs a break from its "dynastic" past.


"It's great that the government has finally gone after the
Begums," said engineer Shahidul Islam Bacchu. The word "begum" is
an honorific Muslim title.


"They should be sent abroad or banned from politics, as they have
been the roots of our troubles.


"The country has paid enough for their corrupt and dynastic
politics. We need a break from our past and the government should
start a new beginning," Bacchu said.


Hasina's Awami League said she would stay abroad on holidays
after the government offered assurances it would investigate what
the party claims are "fake and politically motivated" charges.


Hasina -- who ran Bangladesh between 1996-2001 and is the
daughter of the nation's founding father Sheikh Mujib -- had
planned to cut her US vacation short and fly home on Saturday to
fight the charges.


Her fierce rival Zia -- who was premier from 1991-1996 and
2001-2006 and is the widow of slain president Ziaur Rahman -- saw
her freedom severely curtailed from Tuesday after she warned that
the country could "plunge into darkness".


Zia had not been out of her house since Tuesday, her aides said.
Security forces last month arrested her son and heir apparent
Tareque Rahman on charges of extortion as part of a nationwide
crackdown on corrupt politicians.


"What we are seeing we could not have even dreamt of months back.
For the first time in our history the corrupt politicians and
their dynastic leaders are being hunted and punished," said
Fakhrul Islam, a development worker.


"It's a natural justice," he added.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled following months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


The government, promising to root out corruption and carry out
sweeping political reforms, has banned all political gatherings
and arrested at least 50 top politicians. Elections are not
expected for another 18 months.


Media have speculated the government is trying to force Hasina
and Zia into exile, but the administration has denied the claims.


The dynasties are under serious threat, but may survive if the
government fails to provide evidence to prove the charges brought
against them, an analyst said.


"Yes, the two ladies and their dynasties are almost dead. With
the latest developments, people are welcoming their departure
from the political scene," said Imtiaz Ahmed, a professor of
Dhaka University.


"But the government should know that Bangladeshi people are very
politically conscious and mature. It needs to produce all the
concrete evidences against these leaders and a road-map to
democracy to win their hearts. Otherwise, they (the people) may
make a U-turn," he said.

