

Surgeons in southern Taiwan have reattached the left forearm of a
vet after it was bitten off by a sick crocodile he was tending in
a zoo, they said Thursday.


Chang Po-yu, 38, was in a stable condition in hospital after six
hours of surgery, said Fu Ying-chih, the surgeon in charge of the
operation.


"The surgery was successful and we are hopeful he could keep the
forearm, but it is still early to say to what extent functions of
the the limb can be restored," he told AFP.


"The following seven to 14 days will be a critical period," Fu
added from Chungho Memorial Hospital at Kaohsiung Medical
University.


Chang was injecting the male Nile crocodile with anaesthetic in
the zoo in the southern city of Kaohsiung on Wednesday when it
turned on him, tearing off the forearm and holding it in its
mouth.


Nile crocodiles are one of three species found in Africa and are
known as man- eaters with the ability and power to snatch and
devour a human.


The animal only let go when a police officer fired two bullets
into it, zoo officials said, in dramatic scenes caught on
television.


Chang was rushed to hospital where the limb, recovered from the
crocodile, was delivered some 80 minutes after the accident to
the operating theatre.


After the surgery he was seen on television smiling and waving to
reporters with his healthy arm from his hospital bed, where he
also reportedly tried to comfort his panic-stricken mother.


His girlfriend wept through the operation, television reported,
which said friends were worried how soon Chang would be able
resume his hobby of playing the piano.


The vet is known for his devotion to the zoo animals, the reports
said. In 2001 he reportedly jumped into the cage of a lion to
guide it to safety during a flood.


Local television also showed footage of him weeping when an
elephant died suddenly in the zoo several years ago.


Meanwhile, the 300-kilogram (661-pound) crocodile survived the
shooting and is now attracting lots of visitors to its enclosure,
officials said, some even reportedly crossing a police line to
catch a closer glimpse.

