

Swiss food giant Nestle has agreed to buy the Gerber baby food
business off fellow Swiss pharmaceuticals group Novartis for 5.5
billion dollars (4.1 billion euros) in cash, Novartis announced
Thursday.


Novartis said the deal completes its divestiture program,
following its strategy to focus on healthcare with
pharmaceuticals at the core, adding that the transaction was
expected to be completed by the second half of 2007.


"Over the past decade we have continuously invested in R&D,
strengthening our innovation power and building our healthcare
businesses, particularly pharmaceuticals, while divesting over 50
percent of our non-core, non-healthcare businesses," Novartis
chairman and CEO Daniel Vasella said.


He emphasised that the transaction was also "the right move for
Gerber, as it will become a priority business in a leading global
nutrition company."


Shares in both companies outperformed the wider market on
Thursday morning as investors welcomed the deal.


Nestle shares were up 1.0 Swiss franc at 490.75 on the Zurich
stock exchange while Novartis shares rose 0.05 Swiss francs to
67.15.


The overall SMI index was down 18.76 points at 9,117.33.


Market players welcomed the deal as a positive move for both
companies, even though Nestle is seen paying a higher price than
expected.


"The 5.5 billion dollars offers an extra 10 percent to what was
last speculated by the media," one trader said.


"While the deal was widely expected, it remains a sound move for
both Novartis and Nestle," added a trader at Zuercher
Kantonalbank.


Banque Cantonale Vaudoise analysts said the deal could lead to
cost-savings for Nestle of 95 million dollars by 2011.


Nestle had reportedly been keen to acquire Gerber for more than
10 years. It made an offer for the group back in 1994, but was
thwarted by Sandoz, which went on to merge with Ciba-Geigy, which
gave birth to Novartis.


Gerber, based in Parsipanny, New Jersey in the United States, has
a portfolio of around 300 food products for babies, toddlers and
infants as well as a line in baby-care and life insurance.


In 2006 Gerber had unaudited net sales of 1.6 billion dollars
with an operating income of 307 million, the statement said.

