

Two Canadian soldiers and 35 Taliban militants were killed in the
latest violence to rock insurgency-hit southern Afghanistan,
officials said Thursday.


The Islamist Taliban fighters were killed late Wednesday in
fierce fighting with Afghan and US-led troops in troubled Zabul
province, provincial governor's spokesman Gulab Shah Alikhil told
AFP.


"Initially our troops came under attack. They called for support
from the coalition troops who responded with ground troops and
air support. Thirty-five Taliban were killed in the subsequent
fighting," Alikhil said.


The US-led coalition headquarters said it had no immediate
information on the incident, while the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) said it was not involved.


Zabul is one of the most violent regions in southern Afghanistan.
Four Afghan soldiers were killed and nearly two dozen wounded in
the province after being ambushed by Taliban insurgents on
Monday.


Taliban rebels seized control of Khak Afghan district in Zabul
last week, the latest of several rebel attempts to exert control
in parts of southern and western Afghanistan.


Separately on Wednesday two Canadian soldiers were killed by a
roadside bomb near their vehicle, as the bodies of six of their
comrades who died days earlier in a similar attack were returning
home for burial, officials said.


The latest blast about 38 kilometres (24 miles) west of the
southern city of Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban, also
wounded two soldiers, one seriously, Canadian National Defence
spokesman John Knoll said in Ottawa.


A third soldier was also wounded in an earlier bomb attack in the
same area, he added.


And a suicide bombing of a Canadian convoy west of Kandahar
wounded 10 Afghan civilians and caused minor damage to a vehicle
earlier Wednesday, Knoll said, updating the number of injured
from eight.


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan as
part of the 37,000-strong ISAF contingent that is supporting the
government of President Hamid Karzai. Separately there are around
11,000 US-led coalition troops.


The latest casualties bring the Canadian military death toll in
Afghanistan to 53 since the start of their mission in 2002.


On April 8, Easter Sunday, Canada suffered its heaviest single-
day troop loss in 50 years with the death of six soldiers outside
Kandahar, as the nation marked the 90th anniversary of a key
World War I victory in Vimy, France.


Around 1,000 people, the majority of them militants, have been
killed in Taliban-related violence this year, according to an AFP
toll based on official reports. Last year was the bloodiest since
2001 with around 4,000 dead.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States, but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday that army
soldiers will see their tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq
extended by three months in a sign that the US military is
straining to meet its commitments.

