

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao met Thursday with Japanese Emperor
Akihito and welcomed the monarch's past calls to look
"accurately" at bitterly disputed history, the palace said.


Wen is on the first visit by a Chinese leader to Japan in seven
years as the Asian powers look to put aside past tensions.


"It is important that knowledge of facts in the past be handed
down accurately and applied for the future," Wen told the
emperor, according to an Imperial Household Agency spokesman.


"I value your remarks made in the 60th anniversary year after the
war," Wen said.


Wen was referring to remarks Akihito made in 2005, 60 years after
Japan's surrender, a year marked by intense criticism charging
that Tokyo had failed to atone for the past.


Akihito had said in December 2005, "I believe it is extremely
important for the Japanese people to strive to accurately
understand this past history along with the ensuing era."


The emperor explained to Wen, "I made the remarks for the
friendship with people of the world because many things get
forgotten with the time passed," according to the imperial agency
spokesman.


Akihito, who has no governmental role, is the son of wartime
emperor Hirohito, in whose name Japanese soldiers went to battle.


The Chinese public staged unusually rowdy protests in 2005 to
denounce Japan as Beijing scuttled Tokyo's cherished bid for a
permanent seat on the UN Security Council.


China was infuriated by former Japanese prime minister Junichiro
Koizumi's visits to a controversial war shrine and by Tokyo's
approval of textbooks written by avowed nationalists.


Wen brought up the textbooks during a meeting with Mizuho
Fukushima, leader of the opposition Social Democratic Party,
according to a party official.


"We are worried that if (Japan) does not educate young
generations about history, they are going to forget about it,"
Wen was quoted as saying.


"The most important thing for Japan is to go along the way of
peaceful development," Wen said. "Going along the way of peace is
beneficial for the Japanese people. I hope Japan will continue
going on the course."

