

British music label EMI said Thursday that it had settled a
royalties dispute with Apple Corps, the publishing group founded
by The Beatles, in a move which could pave the way for legal
downloads of the Fab Four's hits.


"I can confirm that we have reached a mutually acceptable
settlement and that we are not going to say anything more than
that," an EMI spokeswoman told AFP.


EMI was still working towards putting The Beatles' songs on Apple
Inc.'s iTunes website, she added.


Apple Corps -- owned by surviving Beatles Paul McCartney and
Ringo Starr and the widows of bandmates John Lennon and George
Harrison -- had claimed that EMI owed 30 million pounds (44
million euros, 59 million dollars) in missing royalties from
album sales between 1994 and 1999.


The band had begun legal proceedings in London's High Court in
2005 to recover the alleged missing funds.


The vast catalogue of Beatles hits, including "Let it Be," "Hey
Jude" and "Come Together," has been barred from legal Internet
download sites at the band's insistence, despite protests from
EMI, which owns their recording rights.


Beatles' songs have long circulated on the Internet as unlicensed
downloads, available from peer-to-peer sites, but industry
analysts say a decision to release them would be a boon for the
legal downloading industry.


British newspaper The Daily Telegraph had reported earlier
Thursday that EMI and Apple Corps had agreed to settle the case
at the end of March -- but added that the terms of the settlement
were confidential.


The two sides could now reach an agreement on new royalties for
the sale of Beatles' songs over the Internet, particularly on the
iTunes music website, the paper added without citing its source.


Earlier this month, EMI said it would offer songs from its
artists for download without copy protection as part of a deal
with iTunes, which is touted by iPod maker Apple as the world's
most popular digital music store.


EMI, the world's third-largest music group, has said it will
begin to sell music without anti-piracy software over the
Internet from May, but did not specify a launch date.


The announcement only covered EMI's existing digital catalogue --
which includes the likes of Coldplay, Madonna and Robbie Williams
-- but excludes The Beatles' recordings.

