

British police arrested 23 people in a pre-dawn drugs and
firearms raid Thursday on a Rastafarian temple in southeast
London.


Police acting on search warrants issued under drugs and firearms
legislation raided the temple in Kennington at 3:10 am (0210
GMT), the Metropolitan Police said in a statement.


"These premises have been used in part as a Rastafarian Temple,
however, it is believed that a high level of serious criminality
has been operating from here which is adversely affecting the
local communities," it said.


Lambeth Borough Commander Chief Superintendent Martin Bridger
said the raid followed weeks of surveillance at four terraced
houses decorated in the green, yellow and red colours of
Rastafarianism.


He said Rastafarian leaders had approached and informed him that
suspected drug dealers had taken over the premises in recent
months.


Bridger said the police operation began last October and
culminated in 24-hour surveillance over the past eight weeks
after officers had gathered evidence against a "core"' of around
a dozen people suspected of drug dealing.


Evidence included footage of a man waving a handgun outside the
premises, he said.


"In the past few weeks we've arrested around 200 people coming
away from the premises and they have even had cannabis or crack
cocaine on them," Bridger added.


"We have had up to 600 people visit on some days and we suspect
that most people were using it to buy drugs," he said.


He said members of the Rastafarian community had not been
involved in Thursday's raid, even though they had gone to police
about their concerns over the use of the buildings.


No temple representatives were immediately available for comment.


The temple is in St Agnes Place, the longest continually squatted
street in London until the illegal residents were cleared in 2005
and buildings adjacent to the temple demolished.


Bridger said the council was now pursuing a court case to have
the temple buildings demolished while it engaged in negotiations
with the Rastafarian community "to find alternative premises" for
a Rastafarian temple.


"The Rastafarian community have a long history in this borough
and we are all keen that those genuine worshippers are able to
practise at a safe location," he said.


The Press Association news agency said the place of worship is
also believed to be where late reggae star Bob Marley stayed in
1977 while recording an album.

