

East Timor presidential candidate Jose Ramos-Horta demanded a
vote recount Thursday despite making it to the second round,
saying thousands of voters may have been harassed and threatened.


His remarks came amid growing questions about the conduct of the
violence-torn nation's vote on Monday, the first presidential
poll since the country won independence in 2002.


Although the bloodshed feared on voting day did not occur, doubts
about the election have heightened fears that one of the world's
newest nations could see a resurgence of political turmoil and
violence.


"There has to be an investigation," said Ramos-Horta, the current
prime minister, who qualified for the run-off against Francisco
"Lu Olo" Guterres of the ruling Fretilin party.


He said more than 150,000 of 520,000 registered voters had not
voted, despite a massive turn-out marked my hours-long queues and
shortages of ballot papers, and called for the United Nations to
hold an inquiry.


"Were they intimidated or simply did not show up?" said Ramos-
Horta, who shared the Nobel peace prize in 1996 for his role in
the campaign that eventually won independence from Indonesia.


"I ask the UN for an explanation," he said. "I think there should
be another count."


An Indonesian human rights group said it had received reports
that the ruling Fretilin, the most powerful political force in
this country of one million people, had gone door-to-door to
intimidate voters.


Ramos-Horta founded Fretilin as a resistance movement against
Indonesia, which occupied the country in 1974 after former
colonial power Portugal withdrew.


But he left in 1988, and Fretilin has since transformed from
underground movement to mainstream political party -- and one
repeatedly accused of using intimidation tactics against its
opponents.


Rights group Yayasan HAK said it had received reports that
Fretilin had harassed voters and even beaten up a priest and a
journalist.


"They noted the identity numbers of people and said if you don't
choose Fretilin, your number will show on the computer," said the
group's spokesman, Jose Luis de Oliveira.


"Even if that's not true, people are afraid," he said. A Fretilin
spokesman said the party did not encourage its supporters to use
violence.


Meanwhile the election commission rejected a formal protest with
similar claims filed Wednesday by five of the six candidates who
did not make it into the May 8 run-off election.


"We have no legal basis to accept that," said commission
spokesman Martinho Gusmao.


International observers have generally praised the conduct of the
polls, but Yayasan HAK's de Oliveira said they did not have a
proper understanding of the situation in the country.


"They cannot see or feel what's happening," he said.


A Timor analyst with the International Crisis Group, Sophia
Cason, said election monitors had said they found discrepancies
between local tallies and the national election figures as well
as ballot boxes uncounted.


"That's what some of the observers from the parties are worried
about -- that the figures just aren't adding up," she said. "So
there seems to be some sort of discrepancy in some of the
figures."


Final first-round results are due on Sunday.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets of East Timor,
formally known as Timor-Leste, for nearly a year after gang
violence left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 fleeing their homes
in April and May 2006.

