

President Pervez Musharraf said Thursday that Pakistani tribesmen
had killed around 300 foreign Al-Qaeda militants near the Afghan
border and admitted that the army had helped the tribal fighters.


The comments by Musharraf come after months of pressure from key
ally the United States and other nations with troops in
neighbouring Afghanistan to crack down on militants in the
lawless tribally-ruled border areas.


"The people of South Waziristan now have risen against the
foreigners. They have killed about 300 of them," military ruler
Musharraf told a conference of defence officials from 22
countries.


"They have support from the Pakistan army. They asked for it."


Previously officials have only said that the army had secured
parts of South Waziristan after the tribesmen drove out the
insurgents themselves, and that the military provided medical
aid.


Musharraf said there were indications that tribesmen in other
parts of the region were ready to take up arms against the
foreign insurgents, many of whom fled Afghanistan after the fall
of the Taliban in 2001.


"We want a similar activity in North Waziristan and there are
indications that this can happen there as well," he said.


The government has previously said that the formerly Taliban-
supporting tribesmen's efforts vindicate its policy of signing
peace deals with the ethnic Pashtun clans of the region, despite
criticism from Western allies.


NATO and US officials have said that attacks on their forces had
risen since the deals in South Waziristan in 2005 and North
Waziristan in 2006.


Fighting broke out in South Waziristan on March 19, sparked by a
Taliban commander-turned-government supporter's demand that Uzbek
militants in the area leave or disarm.


The tribesmen hoisted white flags, pounded war drums and
proclaimed victory earlier this week, saying that the foreigners
had been driven out. The military took reporters to the area on
Wednesday and said the same thing.


But the regional army commander said Wednesday that Uzbek
commander Tahir Yuldashev, who has a a five-million-dollar US
bounty on his head and alleged links to Osama Bin Laden, had not
been caught.

