

Microsoft's top lawyer warned Apple Thursday not to complain too
loudly to record labels about music copyright restrictions,
saying the computer giant was already selling plenty of iPod
music players.


"I'm not a big believer in just blaming the music industry for
Apple's inability to sell every conceivable iPod," said Brad
Smith, senior vice president and general counsel at the US
software giant.


"I think they're (Apple) doing pretty well from what I can tell.
In fact I think the music companies are the ones who right now
are doing a little less well," he told reporters during a visit
to Japan.


Apple chief executive Steve Jobs recently caused a stir when he
urged record labels to abolish security software that prevents
music bought online from being played on different types of MP3
players.


Last week British music giant EMI said it would offer songs by
Coldplay, Madonna and a host of other stars for download without
copy protection as part of a deal with Apple's iTunes website.


Smith said that Microsoft would be interested in similar deals
for its Zune player, which made a lackluster debut in US stores
last year.


"At the same time I wouldn't go as far as Steve Jobs did and
suggest that everything is the fault of the record labels," he
added.


"I believe that fundamentally people who produce content and who
own the rights to that content deserve the opportunity to make
their own decisions about how they want to provide that content
to the public," Smith added.


After enjoying a boost from the consumer switch from vinyl to
compact discs in the 1990s, the world's major record labels have
endured a tough past few years, battling falling CD sales,
rampant piracy and illegal downloads.


Apple has sold 100 million iPods since introducing them in 2001
and the devices command about 75 percent of the global MP3 player
market. Apple's online iTunes store sells digital music,
podcasts, video and films.


The commercial success of the nifty player has reached beyond
urban hipsters to encompass Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and US
President George W. Bush, both of whom are reported to own iPods.

