

Thailand was set to deport a Swiss man Thursday after he was
given a royal pardon for defacing the king's portrait during a
drunken spree that had landed him a 10-year prison sentence.


Oliver Jufer was sentenced just two weeks ago after pleading
guilty to lese majeste -- offending the dignity of King Bhumibol
Adulyadej, who is widely revered and protected by strict laws
against even the slightest insult.


The 57-year-old was handed over to Swiss authorities at Bangkok's
international airport and was expected to be deported later in
the day, immigration officials said.


"He received a royal pardon a few days ago. Now he has been
released but will be deported," said Panu Kwanyuen, attorney
general for the northern province of Chiang Mai.


Security cameras videotaped Jufer spraying black paint on the
king's portraits in the northern city of Chiang Mai on December
5, which is the monarch's birthday and a time of national
celebration.


He had been in jail since then.


The lese majeste rules are so precise that Thai media have been
largely silent about Jufer's case for fear of breaching the law
in its reports.


But controversy over the case and Thailand's rigid enforcement of
lese majeste has erupted on the Internet, after a user on the
video-sharing site YouTube posted a clip mocking the king and
taking aim at the law.


Thailand last week banned the site because of the video, drawing
condemnation from media rights watchdogs who accused the
military-installed government of censoring political speech
online.


The original clip has since been removed, but Thailand's decision
to censor the website spurred YouTube users worldwide to create
their own videos mocking the king, with dozens currently posted
on the site.


Despite the flurry of lese majeste cases, the king himself has
indicated that he might be willing to allow greater public
discussion and even criticism.


"I can be criticised that sometimes I might be wrong, so that I
will know I am wrong," he said in a speech for his birthday in
2005.


The royal palace has taken a more prominent role in Thai
political life since a military coup in September, which was
conducted with the king's apparent blessing.


The generals who staged the coup have repeatedly said that one of
the reasons for ousting elected prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra
was because he had been "impolite" to the monarch.


Prosecutors Tuesday dropped the lese majeste charges against
Thaksin, although they chided him over the remarks.


Paul Handley, whose biography of the king has been banned in
Thailand, said some in the palace may have wanted to use the case
of Jufer, who had lived here for a decade and reportedly married
a Thai woman, to warn other potential violators of the law.


But the king himself might be embarrassed by the international
attention that such cases attract, said Handley, now an AFP
correspondent in Washington.


"While this will be called a demonstration of King Bhumibol's
compassion, I think it shows the palace, and perhaps the king
himself, are embarassed by the attention given to lese majeste
cases, and the rampant abuse of the charge in Thai politics," he
said.

