

Hong Kong's government Thursday said it will introduce laws to
toughen food checks after environmentalists found yet more
vegetables contaminated with banned poisons.


Health chiefs will draft legislation to regulate imports of all
food, beginning with farmed fish, vegetables and fruit, the items
that have most regularly fallen foul of safety checks.


The announcement followed revelations of the latest study by
environmentalists Greenpeace, which found banned pesticides and
other toxins in samples of imported vegetables.


One sample of beans imported from Holland found the banned
chemical carbofuran in levels 4.4 times higher than European
standards.


Carbofuran is banned because it is known to cause breathing
difficulties, increased blood pressure, and in high doses, death
from respiratory failure.


The study was the third by Greenpeace that had found high levels
of toxins in Hong Kong's imported foods.


Earlier investigations found vegetables from China contained high
levels of banned compounds, including the insecticide DDT.


Greenpeace assistant campaigner for food safety Chow Yuen-ping
said: "The food and environmental health department vegetable
inspections at the border are obviously useless.


"The results repeatedly show that the government simply has no
effective policy to guarantee vegetable safety in Hong Kong."


The government, in announcing its food legislation plans said
border checks of imported goods had already been stepped up since
April 1.


"Under the new system, vegetables from farms and purchasing
stations not meeting the necessary requirements are not allowed
to export vegetables to Hong Kong," it said in a statement.


It said inspection teams on the other side of the border in China
would also tighten up checks.


Hong Kong has been plagued by health scares over imported
produce, mainly from China, the former British colony's principle
source of foodstuffs.


Imports of farmed fish, eels and eggs were banned last year after
cancer-causing chemicals were found in some samples.


There have been other recent scares over pork, as well as poultry
imports amid concerns over bird flu.

