

Deactivating a nuclear reactor such as the one in Yongbyon in
North Korea can be done in a couple of days, but dismantling the
whole facility would require up to a decade, according to an
expert from France's Atomic Energy Commission.


The entire procedure consists of three steps, according to Robert
Mogavero, who oversees the decommissioning of nuclear facilities
in France, which derives around three-quarters of its electricity
from nuclear power.


The first is to shut down the nuclear chain reaction, done by
simply switching the control panels to a "safety" position. One
must then wait "a few days, up to a week or two" for the residual
power in the reactor core to diminish on its own, Mogavero said.


From there, one can proceed to step two, "the removal of the
nuclear fuel that is in the core of the reactor," he explained in
an interview.


This part of the operation could take "anywhere from a several
weeks to a couple of months," depending on the size of the
reactor and whether any contamination had occurred due to
breaches in the barriers sealing off the fuel, he said.


The spent fuel must then be prepared for storage, either in
specially designed pools buried underground or above-ground dry
storage casks.


Because the spent fuel continues to emit radiation and heat, it
must be transported in containers that shield and contain the
radioactivity and dissipate the heat.


Step three is the dismantling of the reactor itself, which
"requires a certain number of phases and can last many years,"
Mogavero said, depending on the power of the reactor.


The Yongbyon facility is small, a five megawatt, gas-graphite
reactor that went into operation in 1987. It uses natural uranium
for fuel, and is thought to be capable of a thermal power output
of 20 to 30 megawatts.


American experts estimate that Yongbyon has produced 50-60
kilograms of weapons- grade plutonium, enough for six to 12
bombs. North Korea tested its first nuclear weapon last October.


In France, the average time needed to dismantle a reactor of
comparable type and power is ten years, Mogavero said.

