

China expressed deep concern Thursday over large anti-government
protests in neighbouring Kyrgyzstan and offered Bishkek
unspecified support.


"As for the development of the domestic situation in Kyrgyzstan,
China expresses its deep concern," foreign ministry spokesman Qin
Gang told a routine briefing.


"We hope we can play a constructive role in maintaining stability
in Kyrgyzstan."


Thousands of anti-presidential demonstrators gathered in the
Kyrgyz capital Bishkek Wednesday in what the opposition hopes
will force the latest change of power in the unstable Central
Asian state.


About 10,000 protestors, wearing the blue scarves of the United
Front for a Decent Future for Kyrgyzstan, rallied through the
afternoon on the central square, chanting a demand for President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev to step down.


Kyrgyzstan's parliament held an emergency session on Thursday to
discuss the crisis as about 1,000 demonstrators returned to the
capital's main square.


Beijing has long expressed concern over the revolutions that have
swept through the states of the former Soviet Union, especially
those in Central Asia that have close ties with China's ethnic
Turkish speaking Muslim minorities.


"We sincerely hope that Kyrgyzstan can remain stable and the
development of Kyrgyzstan and its people can continue," Qin said.


"This is in the interests of Kyrgyzstan, as well as the region."


As part of an effort to quell religious extremism, ethnic
separatism and terrorism in its western-most Xinjiang region,
China has worked to establish a security grouping of Central
Asian states known as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.


With Kyrgyzstan scheduled to hold the organisation's next summit
in August, Qin urged the other member states -- Russia,
Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan -- to make
efforts to ensure the success of the meet.


"This will be a very important summit for the development of the
SCO," Qin said.


"The member states have agreed that all parties will work closely
together and make all efforts to ensure the success of the
summit."

