

President Pervez Musharraf said Thursday that Pakistani tribesmen
had killed about 300 foreign Al-Qaeda militants near the Afghan
border and admitted the army had helped the tribal fighters.


Military ruler Musharraf's comments came after months of pressure
from key ally the United States and other nations with troops in
Afghanistan to crack down on Islamic insurgents on Pakistan's
lawless, tribally-ruled frontier.


"The people of South Waziristan now have risen against the
foreigners. They have killed about 300 of them," Musharraf told a
conference in Islamabad of defence officials from 22 countries.


"They have support from the Pakistan army. They asked for it."


Previously, officials have only said that the army had secured
parts of South Waziristan, after the tribesmen drove out the
mainly Uzbek and Chechen insurgents themselves, and that the
military provided medical aid.


They have also given lower casualty figures than the president,
telling reporters on a rare trip to the region on Wednesday that
about 200 foreign militants and 40 tribesmen had died.


General Musharraf said the tribesmen, who once gave shelter to
the foreigners after the fall of Afghanistan's Taliban regime in
2001, were also likely to take up arms against rebels in other
parts of the region.


"We want a similar activity in North Waziristan and there are
indications that this can happen there as well," he said.


The government said that efforts by a tribal force of about 1,000
fighters vindicated its policy of signing peace deals with the
ethnic Pashtun clans of the region, despite criticism from
Western allies.


NATO and US officials have said that cross-border attacks on
their forces had risen since the deals in South Waziristan in
2005 and North Waziristan in 2006, but Pakistan said such
assaults had in fact dropped.


Fighting broke out in South Waziristan on March 19, sparked by a
Taliban commander-turned-government supporter's demand that Uzbek
militants in the area leave or disarm.


The tribesmen hoisted white flags, pounded war drums and
proclaimed victory earlier this week, saying that the foreigners
had been driven out of their bunkers, a claim backed by the army.


But the regional army commander told reporters Wednesday that
Uzbek commander Tahir Yuldashev, who has a a five-million-dollar
US bounty on his head and alleged links to Osama Bin Laden, had
not been caught.


When he spoke at the defence conference on Wednesday, Prime
Minister Shaukat Aziz urged the US not to belittle Islamabad's
anti-terror efforts or to introduce legislation linking aid to
its success against militants.


US Vice President Dick Cheney told Musharraf during a surprise
visit to Islamabad on February 26 that he was concerned that
Taliban and Al-Qaeda militants were regrouping in the tribal
areas.


However he denied threatening Pakistan with a cut in aid.
Democrats in the US Congress in March introduced legislation that
would make aid to Pakistan conditional on its counter-insurgency
performance.

