

International efforts to clinch Khartoum's approval for UN
peacekeepers in Darfur turned on Thursday into a scramble to
contain rising tension between Chad and Sudan, following deadly
border clashes.


Foreign envoys queued up to hold talks with Sudanese President
Omar al-Beshir, the latest being US Deputy Secretary of State
John Negroponte, who was due to arrive later on Thursday.


South African President Thabo Mbeki, on a visit to Sudan
initially aimed at promoting former UN chief Kofi Annan's
peacekeeping plan for Darfur, was enlisted by Beshir to support
mediation efforts with Chad.


"President Mbeki has always had contacts with Chad on ways to
contain the tensions between both our countries and these
contacts are continuing," Beshir said on Wednesday. "God willing,
these contacts will yield positive results."


Chadian troops chased rebels across the border with the Darfur
region on Monday, sparking a battle with the Sudanese army.
Khartoum said 17 of its troops were killed, while Chad speaks of
30 killed on both sides.


The clash was one of the most serious of its kind since the start
of the Darfur conflict between rebels and Khartoum's troops and
allied Janjawed militia more than four years ago. It heightened
fears that the fighting would eventually spill over into
neighbouring countries.


Libya also dispatched foreign ministry number two Abdel Salem
Triki, who held talks late on Wednesday with Chadian President
Idriss Deby Itno.


"I am happy that President Deby assured me he would stick to the
Tripoli accord," the Libyan mediator said, referring to a 2006
deal aimed at guaranteeing security on the Sudan-Chad border.


The two neighbours have chronically exchanged accusations of
support for each other's armed opposition movements. Chad
apologised for the incident but Sudan insisted it wanted further
assurances.


"Apologies are not enough... there must be guarantees that such
an aggression should not take place in the future," Foreign Under
Secretary Mutref Siddeik said on Wednesday.


Defence Minister Abdel Rahim Mohammed Hussein also warned that
his armed forces were capable of "protecting the country and
taking all measures for repulsing any aggression."


Negroponte's trip to Sudan was billed as a fresh push for the
deployment of UN peacekeepers in Darfur, an option that Beshir
has consistently rejected despite the African Union's inability
to contain the violence there.


Sudan has agreed to the first two phases of Annan's plan
involving mainly logistical and technical support for the
embattled African force.


The final and more contentious phase of the plan is supposed to
lead to the deployment of a joint --  or "hybrid" -- AU-UN
peacekeeping force in Darfur, where at least 200,000 people have
died in four years of fighting.


But the US administration faced pressure of its own on Thursday,
after news that President George W. Bush has scrapped plans to
slap sanctions on Sudan provoked the ire of some members of
Congress.


Washington's top Sudan envoy Andrew Natsios revealed on Wednesday
that further sanctions against the Khartoum regime were put on
the back burner to allow the United Nations to pursue
negotiations.


"I am at a loss as to why we aren't engaging in everything,
including the use of military force, to stop them," said Joseph
Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.


Negroponte's trip to the region will last until April 19 and is
scheduled to include stops in Chad, Libya and Mauritania.

