

Foreign investors are vying to build Macau-style luxury gambling
and hotel complexes in a beachside resort area close to Vietnam's
buzzing southern commercial hub of Ho Chi Minh City.


US-based Winvest Investment LLC is now clearing land for the
five-star Saigon Atlantis hotel and casino complex after winning
in-principle government approval, said the top investment
official of Ba Ria Vung Tau province.


Another luxury project, the Ho Tram Strip which Canada-based
developers Asian Coast Development Ltd plan to start building
later this year, would feature five themed casinos and a Greg
Norman-designed golf course.


The work of Las Vegas-based architect Paul Steelman, who also
designed the Sands Macao, it would feature "lavish Vegas-style
gaming rooms" and offer a secluded "alternative to Macau," a Hong
Kong based spokeswoman said.


Under Vietnam's current laws which ban gambling, the resorts
would cater to foreign tourists, the only people now allowed to
gamble in Vietnam's sole official casino in the northern port
city of Haiphong.


For now, neither complex has received final government approval,
said Le Kim Huong, head of the Ba Ria Vung Tau provincial
investment and planning department.


"The province had proposed the establishment of some casino for
tourism development, but it's up to the government to decide,"
she said.


The 300-million-dollar Saigon Atlantis project, to be built over
five years, would include a luxury hotel, villas, a golf course,
shopping centres and an entertainment park, according to state-
controlled media.


Huong said Vietnam's communist government had "agreed in
principle" to the project at Cua Lap outside Vung Tau city, and
the development was now "in the process of land clearance and
compensation.


"Construction can only start late this year or early next year at
the earliest," she told AFP.


The 500-million-dollar Ho Tram Strip, to be situated on
beachfront east of Vung Tau, had not yet received final approval
from the government, she said.


The Hong Kong spokeswoman said construction of the first phase of
the project, including a five-star 1,100-room hotel, a casino and
a PGA Tour-class golf course, was scheduled to start in the
second half of this year.


The Las Vegas-style casino would include hundreds of slot
machines and a wide variety of table games, as well as an arts
and entertainment complex, 10 restaurants, and a very large
swimming pool.

