

Toshiba Corp. aims to make more than half of its sales outside
Japan within three years as it boosts spending on new plants and
equipment to try to gain an edge over rivals, its president said
Thursday.


Atsutoshi Nishida, head of the Japanese high-tech and power
giant, said the mobile telephone business in particular was a
priority as Japanese firms have lagged behind rivals overseas.


"The company wants to earn half of its profits from overseas,"
Nishida said as he unveiled the group's interim business plan for
the next three years.


"The objective is to establish the mobile business overseas,
particularly in Europe, as swiftly as possible," he said.


Toshiba has earmarked 1.75 trillion yen (14.67 billion dollars)
for capital expenditure over the next three fiscal years, up from
1.44 trillion yen over the three years to this March.


Of the new investment, more than one trillion yen will go into
its semiconductor business.


Toshiba aimed to raise its overseas sales to 56 percent by March
2010 from 49 percent now and its operating profit to 50 percent
from 35 percent, he said.


Toshiba is enjoying soaring profits thanks to strong sales of
electronic goods and the acquisition of US nuclear power plant
company Westinghouse.


The group set an operating profit target of 480 billion yen for
the fiscal year ending March 2011, nearly double the 250 billion
yen it expects for the fiscal year that ended last month.


It expects average annual growth rates of seven percent in its
digital products business over the next three fiscal years,
driven by strong demand in the fast- growing economies of Brazil,
Russia, India and China.


The company has seen a plunge in prices of NAND flash memory
chips that are used in portable music players and other products,
but Nishida said rising demand thanks to new applications such as
video would lift profits.


The company also expected 14 percent annual growth in the sales
of its energy system division by March 2010, Nishida said, thanks
to its purchase of Westinghouse.


"The United States expects to build more than 30 reactors, and I
think we will get the contracts for at least 16, and up to 20 of
them. In addition, we will likely sign formal contracts to build
four reactors in China," he said.


Nishida said the company now expects to take 14 years instead of
17 to recoup the 5.4 billion dollars it spent to buy
Westinghouse.

