

US stock market operator Nasdaq has offered 3.3 billion dollars
(2.48 billion dollars) to buy its Nordic counterpart OMX, the
Swedish financial daily Dagens Industri reported Thursday.


The bid for OMX, which groups seven Nordic and Baltic exchanges,
totalled 23 billion Swedish kronor, the newspaper said.


In a statement, OMX denied that a bid had been presented, saying
it had received "no offer, formal or informal."


However, it confirmed that it was "in exploratory discussions
with several exchanges and other market venues regarding possible
forms of cooperation."


The market value of the OMX exchange at Wednesday's close was
19.2 billion kronor.


Nasdaq's bid amounted to 192 kronor per OMX share, according to
Dagens Industri, or a premium of 20 percent from Wednesday's
closing price.


OMX's share price soared by 13 percent on the Stockholm exchange
on Thursday on the news of the possible offer, to 180 kronor.


The share price has risen by almost 32 percent in the past month.


OMX owns the stock exchanges in Copenhagen, Stockholm, Helsinki,
Reykjavik, Riga, Tallinn and Vilnius. The company was to hold its
annual general meeting later Thursday.


Earlier this year, the Nasdaq Stock Market was seen as being left
out of the global race for consolidation in the financial markets
industry after the failure of its year-long effort to buy control
of the London Stock Exchange.


The Nasdaq had attempted to take over Europe's biggest stock
exchange, but LSE shareholders voted overwhelmingly against its
bid of about 4.2 billion euros.


Robert Greifeld, president and chief executive of the Nasdaq, had
said at the time that the US exchange would "continue to pursue
other opportunities to build on its existing position as the
world's largest electronic equities exchange."


The market, which is dominated by technology listings, has been
overshadowed by its crosstown rival, the New York Stock Exchange.


The NYSE has completed its acquisition of the Euronext pan-
European bourse and now boasts of having 78 of the top 100
largest companies in the world listed on its transatlantic
markets.


The NYSE has also formed a strategic alliance with the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.

