

The house in Bavaria where Pope Benedict XVI was born will be
open to the public Sunday, a day before the German pontiff's 80th
birthday, the mayor of his hometown Marktl am Inn told AFP.


The 262-year-old building has become a major draw for pilgrims in
the two years since Joseph Ratzinger was elected to succeed Pope
John Paul II.


The opening will allow the faithful for the first time to have a
peek inside the three-storey house on the market square in the
picturesque village nestled on the Austrian border.


"An exhibition will be presented with one part on the ground
floor covering the pope's biography and another upstairs devoted
to theology," Mayor Hubert Gschwendtner said.


Ratzinger, son of Joseph and Marie Ratzinger, was born on April
16, 1927 in the large house, built in typical southern Bavarian
style, with a wide wooden roof, geraniums on the windowsills and
white and yellow painted facade.


A Roman Catholic foundation bought the house a year ago for a
reported 3.5 million euros (4.7 million dollars) from its
previous owner, who had grown tired of the tens of thousands of
pilgrims gaping at her home.


In the last two years nearly 250,000 tourists have descended on
the tiny village with its population of 2,700, Gschwendtner said.


During an extensive renovation, visitors snatched pieces of the
facade that workers had chipped off.


Theologian Ludwig Raischl said he worked with the foundation on
the exhibition to create a "dignified encounter with questions on
our faith."


The exhibition includes his birth certificate and baptism
announcement, and takes in the evolution of his thought on Church
doctrine over the years.


The town has scheduled several events to celebrate the pope's
birthday, including a mass Sunday led by the bishop of Passau,
Wilhelm Schraml, followed by the grand opening of the exhibition.


On Monday, visitors will take part in a candlelight procession to
the town church and children will launch helium balloons carrying
birthday wishes.


Locals are to plant a grapevine in the garden of his former home
while the market square will officially be renamed after the
pope.


Benedict, however, is not expected for the festivities.

