

The United States pressed North Korea Thursday to start shutting
down a nuclear reactor by an April 14 deadline to prove it is
still committed to an international disarmament deal.


A dispute over 25 million dollars frozen in a Macau bank under
US-inspired sanctions is over and the North Koreans have been
told they can collect their money, said Assistant Secretary of
State Christopher Hill.


"This is all about North Koreans now needing to show their
willingness to follow up their part of the deal," Hill, the chief
US nuclear negotiator, told reporters after extending his stay in
South Korea by one day.


The North Koreans reportedly told visiting New Mexico governor
Bill Richardson they would invite back UN nuclear inspectors
within a day after receiving their funds, which had been frozen
in a Macau bank since 2005 on suspicion they were the proceeds of
international crime.


The Macanese authorities, with US approval, unfroze the funds
this week.   But there was no word on whether Pyongyang has so
far tried to collect the cash.


South Korea's Chosun Ilbo newspaper said 20 North Korean
officials had been sent to Macau from the neighbouring Chinese
city of Zhuhai to withdraw the cash. There was no immediate
confirmation.


"The ball's in their court," Hill told CNN earlier in the day.
"If they don't fulfil their obligations we'll know very soon and
we'll have to deal with that accordingly."


North Korea tested its first nuclear weapon last October and Hill
stressed the importance of quickly shutting down its plutonium-
producing reactor and a reprocessing plant at Yongbyon.


He told CNN best estimates were that Yongbyon has produced 50-60
kilograms (110-132 pounds) of plutonium, enough for six to 12
bombs.


The aim of the shutdown was "to prevent that 50-60 kilo problem
from becoming a 100-kilo problem," he said.


Under a February 13 six-nation agreement the North should disable
all nuclear programmes in exchange for one million tons of fuel
oil or equivalent aid and diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was supposed to have completed the shutdown
and sealing of Yongbyon and to have invited IAEA inspectors back
into the country by April 14.


It expelled the International Atomic Energy Agency when the
latest crisis over its nuclear ambitions began in 2002.


Hill acknowledged there can be no total shutdown by Saturday but
said the North should make a start.


"I think it is possible to get going on the process in the next
two days, so let's see if they get going on the process," he told
reporters, saying he is willing to meet his North Korean
counterpart Kim Kye-Gwan during his trip to Beijing starting
Friday.


"I'm not trying to set up a meeting. He knows my schedule. If he
is available, I would be happy to meet with him."


Hill said it would take "more than days" to shut down and seal
Yongbyon but "certainly we are not talking a month."


The six-party talks which began in 2003 group the two Koreas,
China, the US, Russia and Japan.


Seoul has also said that missing Saturday's deadline is not a
major problem as long as Pyongyang takes the first steps before
then.


"The desirable thing is (for the initial measures to be)
implemented before April 14," Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said
Wednesday.

