

British music label EMI on Wednesday settled a royalties dispute
with Apple Corps, the publishing group founded by The Beatles, in
a move that could finally enable fans to buy legal downloads of
the Fab Four's hits.


"I can confirm that we have reached a mutually acceptable
settlement and that we are not going to say anything more than
that," an EMI spokeswoman told AFP.


EMI was still working towards putting The Beatles' songs,
including "Let it Be," "Hey Jude" and "Come Together," on Apple
Inc.'s iTunes website, she added.


News of the settlement was overshadowed, however, by a report
Thursday which said Warner Music has been warned not to overpay
in its takeover bid for EMI.


In afternoon trade, the share price in EMI fell 0.60 percent to
223.40 pence on London's second tier FTSE 250 index, which was
lower overall.


Apple Corps -- owned by surviving Beatles Paul McCartney and
Ringo Starr and the widows of bandmates John Lennon and George
Harrison -- had claimed that EMI owed 30 million pounds (44
million euros, 59 million dollars) in missing royalties from
album sales between 1994 and 1999.


The band had begun legal proceedings in London's High Court in
2005 to recover the alleged missing funds.


The vast catalogue of Beatles hits has been barred from legal
Internet download sites at the band's insistence, despite
protests from EMI, which owns their recording rights.


Beatles' songs have long circulated on the Internet as unlicensed
downloads, available from peer-to-peer sites, but industry
analysts say a decision to release them would be a boon for the
legal downloading industry.


British newspaper The Daily Telegraph had reported earlier
Thursday that EMI and Apple Corps had agreed to settle the case
at the end of March -- but added that the terms of the settlement
were confidential.


The two sides could now reach an agreement on new royalties for
the sale of Beatles' songs over the Internet, particularly on the
iTunes music website, the paper added without citing its source.


Earlier this month, EMI said it would offer songs from its
artists for download without copy protection as part of a deal
with iTunes, which is touted by iPod maker Apple as the world's
most popular digital music store.


EMI, the world's third-largest music group, has said it will
begin to sell music without anti-piracy software over the
Internet from May, but did not specify a launch date.


The announcement only covered EMI's existing digital catalogue --
which includes the likes of Coldplay, Madonna and Robbie
Williams.


Elsewhere, London's Daily Telegraph newspaper reported Thursday
that a key Warner Music shareholder has said the music group
should not consider paying "anything near" the 320 pence per
share it offered for EMI last year.


Scott Sperling, co-president of Thomas H Lee Partners, which owns
37.2 percent of Warner, reportedly told the Reuters Hedge Funds
and Private Equity Summit in New York that sliding profits and
growth at EMI were becoming "increasingly problematic,",
affecting any price Warner might now offer.


EMI had last month rejected a fresh informal takeover bid by
Warner claiming the cash offer worth 260 pence a share, or 2.08
billion pounds (3.07 billion euros, 4.05 billion dollars) was
"inadequate."

