

Guinea, the world's top bauxite exporter, is set to review all
contracts signed with foreign firms operating in the west African
country, government has said.


Spokesman of the two-weeks old government, Information Minister
Justin Morel Junior said authorities would "review all mining
agreements, if need be amicably, but if not, we will hire legal
firms to defend the interests of the country".


Junior made the announcement Wednesday night on state television
after the first cabinet meeting of the new Guinean government led
by a consensus Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate, appointed late
February to end weeks of a bloody general strike.


Unions launched sweeping anti-government protests in January,
paralysing the the poverty-stricken but mineral rich country of
9.4 million people, against the ailing President Lansana Conte.


After weeks of bloody street protests which claimed more than 100
lives of mainly civilians, Conte bowed in and appointed Lansana
Kouyate as a prime minister of consensus.


Kouyate formed his government on March 28.


Guinea has at least one third of the world's bauxite reserves, a
mineral used to produce aluminium.


Observers say the new government believes the mineral
exploitation contracts signed with foreign companies and reveiwed
several times, were made at giveaway terms in this country rated
the most corrupt in the world.


Guinea, according to global anti-corruption watchdog Transparency
International is Africa's most corrupt country.


In addition to bauxite, the Guinean has mines gold, diamond, iron
and nickel.


Among the mining outfits in Guinea are aluminium giants Russia's
Rusal, Canadian-based Alcan and America's Alcoa.


Others are Ukraine's ACG, and American-Canadian Compagne Bauxites
de Guinee (CBG).


In 2004, earnings from mining were around 21.6 million euros,
which more than doubled to 45.9 million euros in 2005 and climbed
up to 83.7 million euros in 2006.


The new government, led by the former UN diplomat, and composed
of mainly technocrats held its first meeting Wednesday without
Conte, who unions and opposition say is no longer fit to run the
nation ravaged by economic and social crises.


Conte, 63, took power in 1984 and long ruled with an iron fist,
but suffers now from diabetes and memory lapses.


Powerful unions launched a strike on January 10 initially to
protest economic hardship and official corruption, but the
conflict erupted into a political showdown with demonstrations
calling on Conte to step down.


The former French colony is rated among the world's 20 poorest
countries.

