

Asian stocks closed mixed and tending lower on Thursday following
falls on Wall Street and fears the United States could still
raise interest rates to combat inflation.


The latest economic indicators for Asia's largest export market
were contained in the minutes from the latest meeting of the US
Federal Reserve indicating further rate rises had not been ruled
out.


This provided an excuse for further profit-taking in the Asia
Pacific region where many markets have enjoyed a run-up to
historical levels, and on the day Shanghai, Sydney and Seoul
still finished at their best ever levels.


Wellington was also higher, up 0.50 percent, while Jakarta,
Taipei and Kuala Lumpur closed flat. Elsewhere losses were
modest.


Tokyo was down 0.73 percent after tracking Wall Street, Hong Kong
eased 0.34 percent and Singapore dropped 1.42 percent after a
succession of record closes.


Bangkok was down 0.38 percent ahead of national holidays while
Manila was the standout with a 2.15 percent slump but dealers
noted that such falls were expected in light of recent sharp
gains.


TOKYO: Share prices retreated on the heels of Wall Street as
investors fretted about interest rates and slowing economic
growth in the United States.


Dealers said that US stocks had fallen overnight after minutes
from the Federal Reserve's recent meeting indicated that the
central bank was not ruling out an interest rate hike to curb
inflation.


The losses came despite the continued weakness of the yen, which
hit a record low against the euro in a boost to Japanese
exporters.


The Nikkei-225 index closed down 129.65 points to 17,540.42.
Volume advanced to 1.88 billion shares from 1.81 billion on
Wednesday.


Dealers took their cue from Wall Street where investors reacted
nervously to minutes from the Federal Reserve's March meeting
that showed policymakers were concerned about "uncomfortably
high" inflation.


The remarks "put to rest earlier market speculations of a likely
rate cut sometime soon," said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund
manager at Ichiyoshi Management.


The International Monetary Fund's decision to cut its forecast
for US economic growth this year to 2.2 percent, the weakest in
five years, also weighed on sentiment, dealers said.


Akino said investors were also reluctant to buy up shares because
of the upcoming corporate earnings reporting season in Japan and
the US.


Friday's special quotation fixing for the April stock index
option also added to the market's cautious tone, dealers said.


Hitachi slid 15 yen at 921.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.34 percent lower, snapping a
five-day winning streak as minutes of last month's US Federal
Reserve meeting renewed worries over interest rates.


Dealers said the market's fall was cushioned by another record
high on China's A-share markets, which sparked interest in select
mainland firms listed here.


Fed meeting minutes released overnight indicated that
policymakers remain concerned over inflation, leaving the door
open for interest rate rises.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 69.22 points at 20,380.21.
Turnover was 59.99 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.7 billion US).


"The market was weighed down by disappointment that any rate
reduction is not on the cards anytime soon," said Brook McConnel,
president of South Ocean Management.


Fed meeting minutes released overnight indicated that US
policymakers remain concerned over inflation.


"The market has had a good run in the past few weeks and I
believe scores of investors decided to lock in some profit from
recent gains," McConnel said.


"The degree of profit-taking though was modest mainly because
many investors are getting more and more keen on China-related
stocks, specially with the mainland's A-shares touching new highs
on strong liquidity flows," he said.


Alex Wong, an asset manager at Ample Capital, said that while
falls on Wall Street overnight and fresh worries over interest
rates weighed on sentiment, the selling pressure was cushioned by
sustained interest in China stocks.


"The mood today was generally cautious, but not bearish. New
highs in China's A-share market is helping in a big way to
sustain interest in select H-shares," he said.


Bank of China was up 0.04 at 3.98.


SEOUL: Share prices rose 0.81 percent to a record high on strong
futures-linked buying, reversing early losses triggered by an
overnight retreat on Wall Street.


Dealers said sentiment was also buoyed by the central Bank of
Korea's decision to keep its call rate target for April unchanged
at 4.5 percent.


The KOSPI index closed up 12.19 points at 1,525.61. Volume was
354 million shares worth 4.5 trillion won (4.8 billion dollars).


Gains were broad, with telecoms and shipbuilders recording strong
increases.


The market shrugged off early losses triggered by an overnight
retreat on Wall Street.


"Some projected a correction after recent steep market gains but
the market today was supported by strong programme buying and as
investors reacted positively to the lead from the BoK's rate
freeze," said Hyundai Securities analyst Ryu Yon.


He added corrections might emerge even if the market's broad
upward trend is unlikely to be reversed.


Samsung Electronics rose 5,000 won to 604,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed little changed, as local interest in
high-dividend yielding companies supported the market against
Wall Street's overnight fall.


Dealers said the market had recouped early losses on renewed
worries about interest rate hikes after minutes of the US Federal
Reserve's recent meeting indicated it is not ruling out
tightening measures to curb inflation.


The weighted index closed down 9.25 points at 8,075.20 on
turnover of 107.97 billion Taiwan dollars (3.27 billion US).


Jih Sun Securities Investment Consulting Co deputy manager Kevin
Chung said the retreat in US stocks apparently set the pace for
the local bourse.


"With some major US firms due to report their earnings next week,
local large- cap companies were kept at bay," Chung said.


However, he said that some local investors took an interest in
certain companies with favorable dividend payment plans.


BenQ Corp closed down 0.10 Taiwan dollars at 12.90 after company
chairman K.Y. Lee and president Sheaffer Lee were released on
bail pending further investigation of their alleged roles in
insider trading of company shares.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed at a fresh record high, adding 1.02
percent on strong follow-through buying with machinery and power
companies in demand.


Dealers said investor sentiment was bolstered by the
strengthening currency, the yuan, and continued expectations for
strong corporate earnings as markets registered their ninth
straight day of gains.


But with China's two bourses at new highs analysts warned the
run-up could trigger a correction similar to the one that rocked
markets in late February when Chinese shares tumbled 9.0 percent
in one day.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 35.81 points at 3,531.03
on turnover of 148.37 billion yuan (19.19 billion US dollars).


"The Shanghai Composite index passed 3,500-point resistance
easily on the back of strong follow-through interest, with
gainers significantly outnumbering decliners," said Jiang Fan, an
analyst at Soochow Securities.


Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, was sceptical that the
market could continue its precipitous rise.


"I believe there will be some corrections around current index
levels because the market has risen a little too quickly and
sharply over past weeks and a consolidation is definitely
necessary."


Machinery stocks were boosted by a surge in Sany Heavy Industry
after it forecast a rise of more than 500 percent year-on-year
first quarter profit. Its shares were up 3.31 yuan or 6.05
percent at 58.02.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed up 0.11 percent at a new record high,
supported by strong local fundamentals in the face of declines in
US markets.


The SP/ASX 200 closed up 6.8 points at 6,158.2. A total of 1.78
billion shares worth 5.86 billion dollars (4.84 billion US) were
traded.


CMC Markets chief equity analyst David Land said the resilience
of the market was surprising considering how strong it had been
of late and the negative lead from Wall Street overnight.


"It's not that I think the market doesn't have a lot of positive
momentum in it, but just not to have a rest period particularly
after such a strong run-up and what was quite a negative lead,"
he said.


Land noted that a number of the index leaders such as BHP
Billiton and Westfield were in negative territory, with gains in
the big banks propping the whole index up.


The nation's leading retailer Woolworths rose on expectations it
could still make a bid for part of Coles Group's assets and trump
both Wesfarmers takeover offer and a possible further tilt from a
private equity consortium led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR).


Woolworths shares climbed 0.13 to 27.94 dollars.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 1.42 percent lower as investors
cashed in gains after a recent record-breaking run.


Dealers said banks and property stocks led the declines.


The Straits Times Index closed down 47.93 points at 3,372.69 on
volume of 2.64 billion shares worth 2.37 billion Singapore
dollars (1.57 billion US).


Dealers said the underlying market tone remains firm, and they
expect further corporate results to support to Index.


Fraser Securities research head Najeeb Jarhom predicted the Index
will breach new record highs above 3,500 this quarter.


DBS Group Holdings was down 0.50 at 22.20.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed flat with gains in late trade
off-setting profit-taking on fresh worries over inflation in the
United States.


Dealers said plantation stocks continued to rally on high crude
palm oil prices, while property stocks were buoyed by optimism
ahead of an expected announcement on land development by the
government on Friday.


The composite index inched up 0.97 points to 1,307.19 on volume
of 2.13 billion shares, valued at 2.99 billion ringgit (867.09
million ringgit).


A technical analyst at a local brokerage said profit-taking
picked up momentum in late trade, but a concerted push in the
last few minutes of trading ensured the benchmark closed higher.


"Core blue-chips had been lower on profit-taking due to their
overbought technical conditions," he said.


Plantation stocks were broadly higher with crude palm oil prices
expected to stay firm on biofuel developments, and an expected
fall in US soybean oil production.


PPB Oil Palms led the advance among palm oil producers, up 1.40
at 15.10.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.38 percent lower as investors
locked in profits ahead of the upcoming five-day Buddhist New
Year holiday.


Dealers said sentiment was downbeat due to a mixed regional
market and a lack of fresh leads. Thailand's financial markets
are to close on Friday and Monday due to the Buddhist
celebrations.


The composite index fell 2.64 points to 692.46 on turnover of 771
million shares worth 6.18 billion baht (177 million dollars).


"Trading was very quiet as many investors were absent from the
market due to Songkran," said Chai Chirasevenupraphand, a market
strategist at Capital Nomura Securities, referring to the
Buddhist holiday that begins on Friday.


"The market was under pressure due to a lack of positive leads
and profit- taking," Chai said.


JAKARTA: Share prices edged down 0.03 percent, as late gains
offset initial profit taking.


The composite index closed down 0.647 points at 1,930.397 on
volume of 3.21 billion shares worth 3.36 trillion rupiah (368.82
million dollars).


"Bank Mandiri was boosted by the news of a drop in its non-
performing loans as well as an upgrade by Merrill Lynch," said
Hendrik, an analyst with Batavia Prosperindo Asset Management.


Bank Mandiri rose 125 rupiah to 2,875.


MANILA: Share prices closed 2.15 percent lower as Wall Street's
losses overnight prompted investors to cash in on recent gains.


The composite index lost 70.99 points to 3,223.22. A total of 6.9
billion shares worth 3.6 billion pesos (75 million dollars)
changed hands.


"This is the correction that we had been anticipating after the
recent run-up, and the Dow's big drop last night was a good
excuse to take profits," said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink Global
Equities.


Asian stocks were mostly lower early Thursday after the Dow Jones
industrials fell nearly 90 points after the minutes of the most
recent meeting of the Federal Reserve showed that policymakers
discussed the possibility that future increases in US interest
rates may be needed to curb inflation.


"We're looking at 3,200 points as the next support level for the
local market," Macapagal said.


Nestor Aguila of DA Market Securities also said the local
market's slide was expected.


"Local fundamentals are still looking good and the drop in stock
prices is just a minor correction following recent rallies," he
said.


Philippine Long Distance Telephone fell 85 pesos to 2,425.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.50 percent higher following a
sharp rise in market leader Telecom.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 20.74 points to 4,168.10 on turnover
worth 149.0 million dollars (108.3 million US).


"We've had a half-decent day, but that can probably be almost
entirely explained by the strength of Telecom. The rest of the
market looks to have been reasonably flat," said Matt Willis of
ABN Amro Craigs.


"The anticipation of the next rate review and the strength of the
dollar are probably the focus of the market," Willis said.


Telecom rose 18 cents to 4.87 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed 0.53 percent lower as investors
continued to unwind positions ahead of the earnings season which
kicks off this week.


Dealers said investors were nervous ahead of earnings due Friday
by India's second largest software firm Infosys Technologies
which could set a trend for the sector as the first to report.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex fell 69.43 points to 13,113.81.


"Investors are selling stocks, fearing volatility after the
Infosys earnings. We expect a further correction from current
levels," said Advait Date dealer of brokerage BHH Securities.


India's largest domestic carrier Jet Airways closed up 19.75
rupees or 3.42 percent to 628.6 after it announced it would
buyout domestic rival Air Sahara for 14.5 billion rupees (337
million dollars).

