

France shows a harsh, intolerant face to the thousands of illegal
immigrants it deports every year under tough new policies adopted
by Nicolas Sarkozy, the man tipped to become the nation's next
president.


But it smiles on people like Zazil Morales, a young Mexican being
taught how to become a model citizen in her adopted country.


Morales is one of a couple of dozen people -- among them Chinese,
Africans, Sri Lankans and Americans -- taking a compulsory course
this week about life in France ahead of signing a contract with
the state obliging them to live according to French customs in
return for residency papers.


The expulsions and the civics lessons are two prongs of Sarkozy's
plans to avoid the social "explosion" he says will occur unless
immigration is brought under control.


His controversial policies have turned immigration and national
identity into key issues in the presidential election whose first
round comes on April 22.


The Socialist Segolene Royal, trailing just behind Sarkozy in the
opinion polls, has tried to steal some of her rightwing rival's
fire by encouraging every home to buy a French flag and for every
citizen to learn the words of the Marseillaise, the national
anthem.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who has spent a lengthy
political  career calling for a complete stop to immigration, for
his part says Sarkozy is merely aping his policies.


Rioting across France in late 2005 in the predominantly immigrant
suburbs -- the worst civil unrest here in nearly half a century
-- highlighted France's strained integration policies.


Sarkozy says that France must have "chosen" immigration rather
than immigration "imposed" on the country.


Morales and the others, gathered on Wednesday afternoon in the
bright, modern rooms of the National Agency for the Welcome of
Foreigners and Migrations in the Bastille district of Paris, are
among the chosen ones.


They have come to sign the Welcome and Integration Contract,
which has become obligatory for all non-European Union immigrants
to France since the start of the year.


Before signing it -- a necessary prelude to getting residency
papers -- they are shown a 15-minute film about life in France
and what rights and duties they have here.


The film starts with a shot of the Eiffel Tower and goes on to
show the various regions of the country, while a voice-over
explains that France is a democratic country much attached to
liberty and equality, where "women do not need to seek permission
from their fathers, husbands or brothers."


For those who do not yet speak good enough French, headsets are
available providing translations in 10 different languages.


"It was interesting, but I knew most of that already, because
I've been here for three years," said Morales, a 26-year-old
hotel receptionist who is married to a Frenchman.


After the film she got a short individual interview, during which
her French was tested and she was informed on how to apply for
French nationality after she has been here for a certain number
of years.


And then the interviewer set her dates for the next two days of
lessons, one on the practical side of life in France -- how to
enrol children in school, how to get health care, how to find a
job and accommodation -- and another that outlines the history
and politics of the state.


Morales' French is fluent, so she was able to avoid the otherwise
compulsory language lessons.


She thought the idea of signing the contract with the French
state was a good one: "It's good they just don't leave you to
your own devices."


So did Sherry Brisson, a 44-year-old from the US state of
California who was also signing her contract on Wednesday.


"I wish they had something like this in the States. Nobody speaks
English in California, just to go shopping I have to speak
Spanish," said Brisson, who has been in France for the four last
months.


Nearly 100,000 signed this contract last year, and this year an
even greater number is expected to so since it is now obligatory.


The signatories are not given nationality, but if they stay in
France, don't get in trouble with the law, and hold on to their
job, or get married to a French person, they will eventually be
entitled to apply for citizenship.


Britain has also just introduced similar measures, requiring
people wanting to live permanently in the country to pass a test
in English as well as in the country's politics, history and
culture.


French unemployment -- currently at 8.4 percent -- is among the
highest in Europe, but most economists agree that the country
needs a steady flow of immigrants to fill the jobs the French do
not want to do and to balance the effects of an ageing
population.


How to manage that flow -- and what to do about the estimated
200,000 to 400,000 illegal immigrants alrady here -- has become a
burning issue likely to dominate politics for long after the
current presidential campaign is over.

