

China on Thursday accused Vietnam of encroaching on its territory
by exploring gas near the disputed Spratly Islands in the South
China Sea in a joint project with British Petroleum.


"The Nansha Islands and adjacent waters have been an indisputable
part of Chinese territory since ancient times," foreign ministry
spokesman Qin Gang told a media briefing, using the Chinese name
for the rocky island chain.


"Any unilateral action taken by any other country in these waters
constitutes infringement into China's sovereignty, territorial
rights and jurisdiction. We are firmly opposed to this."


The isolated Spratlys, believed to contain large oil and gas
deposits, are also claimed by Taiwan, Brunei, Malaysia and the
Philippines.


A Vietnamese foreign ministry spokesman earlier defended the
joint project between the Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group,
formerly known as PetroVietnam, and BP to exploit and build a gas
pipeline on the Spratly Islands.


"Vietnam has enough historical evidence and sufficient legal
basis to confirm its sovereignty over both the Paracel Islands
and Spratly Islands," said Vietnamese foreign ministry spokesman
Le Dung on Wednesday.


Vietnam's operations on its islands and territorial waters,
including plot divisions, exploration and exploitation of oil and
gas, were "completely normal" and in line with Vietnamese and
international law, he said.


The planned two-billion-dollar project would deliver gas from
offshore fields to southern Vietnam, from close to other fields
from which BP already produces gas, state-controlled media in
Vietnam has reported.


No Vietnam BP officials were available for comment.


China and Vietnam -- who in 1979 fought a short border war after
Vietnam expelled the Beijing-backed Khmer Rouge from Cambodia --
fought a brief naval battle in 1988 near the Spratly Islands.


On Thursday Qin said that China and Vietnam had already reached
consensus on resolving their disputed maritime delimitation,
including on "the principle of shelving differences and seeking
common exploration."


"We should not take any unilateral action that will further
complicate the situation," he said.


"All parties should do more that will benefit peace and stability
in the South China Seas and China-Vietnamese good, friendly and
cooperative relations."

