

Sri Lankan forces have captured a strategic highway in the
island's restive eastern province which was under Tamil Tiger
control for 15 years, the defence ministry said Thursday.


Troops took control Wednesday of the A-5 road linking the town of
Chenkaladi and Badulla in the central part of the island, defence
ministry spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said.


"Only about 140 square kilometres (54 square miles) of jungle
land in the Thoppigala area still remain under LTTE (Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam) control and we believe around 300 to 350
rebels are in the jungles," Samarasinghe said.


The latest military advance, which began late February, has left
nine soldiers and 184 Tiger rebels dead, he said.


He said there were no civilian casualties during the fighting.


Military action to wrestle the eastern region from the Tigers
began last July when the rebels shut an irrigation canal and
blocked water to around 15,000 residents in a farming village.


"The Tigers have lost 1,175 cadres, we lost 98 security forces
personnel, while two other government soldiers still remain
missing (since July)," he said adding around 138,000 people had
been displaced since.


Elsewhere in the north, fighting between security forces and
Tiger rebels continued for a third straight day across a front
line at Omanthai, the main crossing point between government and
Tiger-held territory, officials said.


The clashes erupted when rebels fired mortars at military
positions late Tuesday.


There were no details of any military casualties or any immediate
word from the LTTE.


The military said the rebels were shelling government positions
to obstruct the transport of supplies across the frontline.


Residents in the northern district of Vavuniya said three people
were killed late Tuesday when government troops opened fire,
accusing them of being suspected Tamil Tigers. However, residents
later identified them as civilians.


The government has refused to allow journalists into areas held
by the Tigers although it says there is no formal censorship.


More than 4,000 people died between December 2005 and the first
week of March 2007, including 675 civilians and 1,040 security
personnel, according to defence ministry figures.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.

