

Fans of iconic British pop group The Beatles will soon be able to
download their hits legally over the Internet via Apple Inc.'s
iTunes online music shop, the Daily Telegraph reported Thursday.


The newspaper, which did not cite its sources, said that the Fab
Four's songs will be available as legal downloads for the first
time after music label EMI settled a row with Apple Corps, the
publishing group founded by The Beatles.


The vast catalogue of Beatles hits, including "Let it Be," "Hey
Jude" and "Come Together," is barred from legal Internet download
sites at the band's insistence, despite protests from EMI, which
owns their recording rights.


Apple Corps -- owned by surviving Beatles Paul McCartney and
Ringo Starr and the widows of bandmates John Lennon and George
Harrison -- claims EMI owes 30 million pounds (44 million euros,
59 million dollars) in missing royalties from album sales between
1994 and 1999.


The band had begun legal proceedings in London's High Court in
2005 to recover the alleged missing funds.


The Daily Telegraph said EMI and Apple Corps agreed to settle the
case at the end of March -- but added that the terms of the
settlement were confidential.


A deal would pave the way for the two sides to agree new terms
for the sale of Beatles' songs over the Internet, the paper
added.


Earlier this month, EMI said it would offer songs from its
artists for download without copy protection as part of a deal
with iTunes, which is touted by iPod maker Apple as the world's
most popular digital music store.


EMI, the world's third-largest music group, has said it will
begin to sell music without anti-piracy software over the
Internet from May, but did not specify a launch date.


The announcement only covered EMI's existing digital catalogue --
which excludes The Beatles' recordings -- but the group said it
was working towards putting the band's back catalogue on iTunes.


Beatles' songs have long circulated on the Internet as unlicensed
downloads, available from peer-to-peer sites, but industry
analysts say a decision to release them would be a boon for the
legal downloading industry.

