

Hundreds of families were fleeing the Somali capital Thursday, a
day after renewed clashes between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
fighters shattered a ceasefire.


Desperate residents decried the latest flare up in violence that
broke the truce announced last week after Mogadishu suffered its
worst fighting in 15 years with four days of heavy clashes
between the rival sides.


"It seems that hopes for peace have faded because clashes have
restarted and negotiations were delayed. That is why we are
fleeing our houses," said Hussein Daqare, resident of northern
Mogadishu.


Shamso Mohamed Warsame, a mother of five, regretted leaving
Mogadishu, but said she had to abandon her home for fear of
further conflict.


"Our neighbourhood was one of the most peaceful areas in
Mogadishu, but now it looks like the rest of the capital. We must
leave before it is too late," she said.


As many as 1,000 people were killed during the March 28-April 1
clashes and thousands of others forced out of their homes to
relatively safer regions outside Mogadishu.


The UN refugee agency said that at least 124,000 people had fled
Mogadishu in the past two months, with about one tenth of them
leaving last week alone.


On Wednesday, at least four people were killed in the new
fighting in which the two sides exchanged heavy fire and
shelling.


Elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan blamed the Ethiopia-
backed Somali government for stoking the latest violence.


Remnants of an Islamist movement defeated by the joint Ethiopian-
Somali forces late last year have stepped up attacks in recent
weeks against the troops, accusing Addis Ababa of occupying their
country.


The Islamists, backed by local clan militia, have also vowed
attacks against African Union peacekeepers, who currently
comprise 1,500 Ugandan soldiers but have been unable to stabilise
the situation since their deployment last month.


"I have seen terrible incidents. A mortar landed on my house and
exploded inside it, but fortunately none of family members was
injured," said Ahmed Nur, another resident.


"I will not wait another one (mortar) to shatter my family. We
are going to the outskirts and remain there until peace comes
back."

