

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Thursday called for
international help to rebuild his war-torn country, saying the
people were struggling to "rise from the ashes" of conflict.


He also said the recent terrorist attacks were the work of Al-
Qaeda militants and remnants of former members of Saddam
Hussein's ruling Baath Party, stressing that sectarian violence
in Iraq had ended.


"Because of its abundance in resources such as oil and gas, Iraq
has a great potential to become an advanced country," he told
South Korean business leaders.


"However, it is true that reconstruction is being delayed and all
facilities are in ruins. But the Iraqi people are making utmost
efforts to rise from the ashes," he said through an interpreter.


Iraqis are striving for democracy and peace in the face of near-
daily attacks by insurgents, he said.


"For reconstruction, Iraq needs help from its friends ... we hope
our friends join us in efforts to rebuild the country."


Maliki arrived Wednesday from Japan for a three-day visit,
accompanied by his oil, energy, industrial policy and urban
planning ministers.


He said his delegation had many proposals for joint projects in
the oil, electricity, road construction and petrochemical
sectors, and invited South Korean firms to expand investment in
Iraq.


"Iraq always welcomes you with open arms. Windows of opportunity
are open wide and all kinds of conveniences will be provided," he
said.


"Even though we were late in beginning the reconstruction work,
we want to catch up."


South Korea's Commerce, Industry and Energy Ministry said Seoul
signed a memorandum of understanding Thursday on developing oil
and gas fields in northern Iraq.


Maliki also met President Roh Moo-Hyun and discussed ways to
cooperate more closely in natural resources, energy and
construction, the presidential Blue House said.


In a press interview with local journalists, Maliki said
sectarian conflicts had ended, and Sunnis and Shi'ites had
reconciled.


"The recent terrorist attacks are the work of Al-Qaeda extremists
and former Baath Party members who are stirring up to return to
power," he was quoted as saying by Yonhap news agency.


He said his government's efforts to stabilise Baghdad were making
progress, with Iraqi security forces expanding activity
throughout Iraq.


The Iraqi prime minister was to tour industrial plants in the
southern city of Ulsan on Friday.


South Korea, with 1,300 soldiers working on relief and
reconstruction in the northern Iraqi city of Arbil, has the
third-largest foreign force after the United States and Britain,
but is looking to pull them out by year's end.


It has also provided some 220 million dollars in aid to rebuild
the country.

