

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao called Thursday for Japan and China to
jointly develop gas fields in the East China Sea and negotiate a
peaceful settlement to the drawn-out dispute.


In an address to the Japanese parliament, Wen called for the
Asian powers to "put aside conflicts and promote the process of
negotiations based on the principle of joint development."


"We should make the East Sea the sea of peace, friendship and
cooperation, by taking concrete steps for a peaceful resolution
of differences," said Wen, who is on a visit to Japan meant to
repair sour ties.


"It must be admitted there are differences in opinion between
China and Japan over some specific interests and problems," Wen
said. "However, these are side issues compared with our shared
common interests."


Japan and China are two of the world's largest energy importers
and have long jostled over rights to the lucrative gas fields in
the disputed waters.


The two sides failed to find a resolution to the long-running
dispute in time for Wen's summit Wednesday with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, as had been hoped by Japanese officials.


Despite Wen's positive comments, Chinese foreign ministry
spokesman Qin Gang said later in Beijing that China would
continue to develop the fields in the waters that are also
claimed by Japan.


"China's development of (the fields) is in Chinese waters that
are not disputed. I hope Japan has a clear understanding of
this," Qin said.


Beijing started test-drilling in gas fields in the sea in 2003,
provoking outrage in Tokyo, which fears Beijing might siphon off
resources from the fields that straddle the two sides' competing
territorial claims.


Tokyo has given a Japanese company the green light to begin
drilling for oil and gas but production has not yet begun.


In the weeks leading up to Wen's visit, Japan reportedly proposed
a compromise of joint development in the entire disputed area
instead of trying to find a dividing line.


The reports of the compromise led to a backlash among some
conservatives in Japan, with Shoichi Nakagawa, a top aide to Abe,
last week likening China to a "thief" and calling for a harder
line.


Qin reiterated that any joint development should occur in
"disputed waters" and that China was free to develop fields that
it believes are within its territorial waters.


"Our position is that China is developing oil and gas in waters
where China has no dispute with Japan, this is a natural action
within our sovereignty. China has not changed its position on
this," he said.


He reiterated that Beijing's claim follows the contours of the
continental shelf, rejecting Japan's claim based on another
criteria.

