

Bangladesh's main opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed postponed
her return home on government advice after being charged with the
murder of four people, officials said Thursday.


The decision to delay her return followed a phone call late
Wednesday from a government minister, the general secretary of
her Awami League party, Abdul Jalil, told AFP.


"He urged her to defer her date of return," Jalil said. "He said
they need time to look into the case and assured us that her
image and dignity would not be harmed."


Hasina had planned to cut her US vacation short and fly home on
Saturday to fight the charges.


"She was originally scheduled to come back on April 23. But I am
not sure whether she would come back on that day," Jalil said.


Hasina was charged Wednesday with the murders and is also facing
accusations of extortion as a crackdown by the military-backed
government continues.


"We think it's a politically motivated case against our leader,"
Jalil said.


Hasina told the BBC from the United States that the charges were
"fake and false".


Police have given no details of the role Hasina is accused of
playing in the battering to death of four activists last October.


Commerce and Shipping Minister M.A. Matin confirmed he had urged
the Awami League to put off Hasina's return.


"After taking permission from the chief adviser (the head of the
Bangladesh government), I talked to the general secretary of the
Awami League," Matin told reporters.


"I assured them by telephone that there is no need for her to
return home hurriedly," said the retired major-general. He did
not elaborate.


Meanwhile, Chief Adviser Fakhruddin Ahmed was to address the
nation on Thursday evening, a spokesman said, refusing to reveal
the contents of the speech, after several dramatic days.


Hasina last weekend attacked the government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months. The murder charges followed on
Wednesday.


On Monday, she was accused of extortion of 30 million taka
(434,000 dollars) by the Bangladeshi chief of a Malaysian-owned
company. Police are investigating the allegations and have not
brought formal charges against her.


At the same time, the government has put former prime minister
Khaleda Zia under virtual house arrest after she warned the
country might "plunge into darkness."


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled following months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


The government, promising to root out corruption and carry out
sweeping political reforms before new polls, has banned all
political gatherings and arrested at least 50 top politicians.


Media have speculated the government is trying to force Hasina
and Zia into exile, but the administration has denied the claims.


At least 35 people were killed in unrest in the period from
October 28 to January 11, when president Iajuddin Ahmed imposed
emergency rule.

