

The United States ruled out an immediate breakthrough in global
trade talks here on Thursday and called on India and Brazil to
assume a leadership role in ending the deadlock.


Ministers from the United States, the European Union, Brazil and
India -- the "G-4" -- held a second and final day of meetings in
the Indian capital to salvage the Doha talks, billed as a once-
in-a-generation chance to lower trade barriers and bring millions
out of poverty.


"The Doha Round framework provides for a leadership role for the
developing countries, especially India and Brazil. That brings
new opportunities along with new obligations," US Trade
Representative Susan Schwab said.


A deal between the two biggest trading powers, the United States
and EU, and the two leading developing nations, India and Brazil,
is seen as crucial to hopes of getting an agreement among the
World Trade Organisation's 150 members.


Schwab told reporters she expected no breakthrough in the talks,
calling them a "stocktaking" exercise, but added there was now a
"sense of urgency" and that discussions were headed in the right
direction.


"We have reached 'what if' conversations. Under this format, each
country makes conditional offers," she said.


Her comments came as WTO Director General Pascal Lamy said in
Geneva that expected lower growth in world trade this year should
be a spur for all global players to end the impasse in the Doha
Round.


"A successful conclusion to the Doha Round holds great potential
for boosting growth and alleviating poverty," Lamy said.


The Delhi talks marked the first time the leading trade
negotiating players had assembled for four-way talks since the
Doha discussions collapsed last July when Washington refused to
yield more ground in cutting farm subsidies.


The talks were also attended by EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson, Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath and Brazilian
Foreign Minister Celso Amorim.


Schwab sought to allay worries that the WTO needed to come up
with agreement before the end of June, when the fast-track trade
powers of US President George W. Bush expire.


She said she was confident the US Congress would extend Bush's
Trade Promotion Authority, allowing him to implement trade deals
without Congressional clearance.


"There is no Plan B -- we have to get an extension," she said.


Mandelson had warned earlier that talks in the Doha round --
launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital -- must be accelerated or
"Doha's prospects for this year will be lost."


Developing nations are pushing the US and other wealthy nations
to slash farm subsidies, while poorer countries are being
squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


India's Nath has said he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal"
that did not protect the interests of developing nations.


Australian Trade Minister Warren Truss and Japanese Trade
Minister Akira Amari were due to join the session late Thursday,
expanding it into a meeting of the "G-6".


India's industry bodies are pushing for wealthy nations to
concede more ground on cutting generous subsidies to their
farmers.


"An improved offer by developed member countries to reduce their
trade- distorting farm subsidies ... is critical to unlock the
current impasse," said Habil Khorakiwalathe, president of the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry.

