

Ask nearly any resident of this Central Asian capital about the
seasonal political crises that bring tens of thousands to the
streets, and eyes roll.


"We're sick of it," said Ilyona, a restaurant manager and Bishkek
native. "We want to work, we want to get our children to school
in the morning, and all this nonsense only gets in the way."


But the seeming chaos on the city's central square, analysts
said, is a sign that Kyrgyzstan is one of the few former Soviet
countries with a genuinely pluralistic society.


The country, wedged between Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and China, is
in the throes of the latest bout of political turmoil since
violent protests brought down long-time president Askar Akayev in
March 2005.


Cynicism aside, the current stand-off between supporters of
former prime minister Felix Kulov and President Kurmanbek Bakiyev
"illustrates that Krygyzstan has the most vibrant civil society
in Central Asia," said Eugene Huskey, a US expert on Kyrgyzstan.


"The willingness of tens of thousands to appear on the streets,
and the willingness of the authorities to allow the protests, is
not something that one would find in Russia, never mind
Uzbekistan."


There are plenty of caveats, though.


Washington initially welcomed the 2005 coup that brought Bakiyev
to power as a step in the so-called "march of democracy,"
including apparently democratic uprisings in Georgia, Ukraine,
and Lebanon over the previous year.


But when corruption and nepotism remained rife under Bakiyev, US
State Department officials started quietly admitting they had got
it wrong.


The current stand-off "is clearly a battle between clans, between
the north and the south, between individual leaders' ambitions,"
said Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia analyst at the Carnegie
Moscow Center.


But unlike the states that surround it, "Kyrgyzstan has a truly
public political sphere. It has open debates in parliament, a
relatively free press, and people who go out and demonstrate," he
said.


"If politicians have the intelligence and strength to avoid an
armed conflict in the current crisis, it will be clear evidence
of the maturity of society and politics there."


The downside is that the ordinary work of government -- including
instituting an economic plan to drag mineral-rich Kyrgyzstan out
of poverty -- is paralysed by the turmoil.


"We have a definite level of chaos that makes any political
action difficult," said Marat Kakzakpayev, an independent
political analyst, noting that neither side in the current stand-
off had proposed an economic programme.


"But there are certain positives in that chaos. Uprisings
starting with the revolution two years ago showed that people
have high democratic standards... compared to other countries in
the region."


Given that, "the authorities would have a very hard time turning
authoritarian and going back to the past."


The outcome of the current stand-off remained unclear on Thursday
afternoon as thousands of demonstrators gathered for a second day
of protests.


But standing on the square among dozens of tents where protestors
from the regions had spent the night, even the head of the Kyrgyz
security services could see an upside to months of turmoil.


"I don't think there will be any disturbances," National Security
Service chief Murat Sutalinov told journalists. "Kyrgyzstan has
acquired plenty of experience in holding meetings recently -- and
in controlling the situation."

