

Polish authorities moved Thursday to boost their joint bid with
Ukraine to host the 2012 European football championships, seeking
to calm jitters about flaws in transport links and match venues.


With UEFA due to choose the winner next Wednesday at a meeting in
the Welsh capital Cardiff, the Polish-Ukrainian camp are pulling
out all the stops to make sure they beat rival joint bidders
Hungary and Croatia, as well as Italy.


Infrastructure is seen as the weak point of the Polish-Ukrainian
bid.


But Polish Transport Minister Jerzy Polaczek countered that
around 26 billion euros (35 billion dollars) is guaranteed to
help fit the bill, thanks mostly to a European Union finance
package for Poland which runs until 2013.


"Road, rail and air projects will get more than 19 billion
euros," which will be topped up with Polish government money,
Polaczek said at a joint press conference with Regional
Development Minister Grazyna Gesicka and Sports Minister Tomasz
Lipiec.


"Giving us Euro 2012 would make us step up these projects," he
added.


Polaczek noted that the Polish government had already decided to
speed up construction of the new A4 motorway linking Germany to
Ukraine via southern Poland, so that it would be ready for 2012
rather than the original 2015.


Critics of the Polish-Ukrainian bid point to the vast distances
between the planned venues in the two countries.


Around 2,000 kilometres (1,240 miles) separate Gdansk, in
northern Poland, from Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine, for example.


Only 23 kilometres (14 miles) of that is motorway, and the road
journey currently takes around 22 hours.


Gesicka said that a thumbs up from UEFA would give local
authorities in Poland a new impetus for the investment of some 16
billion euros (21.5 billion dollars) in EU regional funding.


"A large slice of this funding could be used to develop the hotel
and catering sector," she said.


Lipiec, meanwhile, said that "more than two billion zlotys (500
million euros, 700 million dollars) have been billed for building
and modernising stadiums" and infrastructure surrounding the
planned venues.

