

The growth in global trade could ease off this year under the
impact of a forecast slowdown in the world economy caused by
uncertainty among investors, the World Trade Organisation said on
Thursday.


The growth in goods trade could slow down to about 6.0 percent in
2007, about two percentage points less than last year, the WTO
said in a preliminary report on world trade and economic
prospects for the year ahead.


Trade growth reached 8.0 percent in 2006, accelerating by two
percentage points over 2005, it added.


WTO Director General Pascal Lamy said the uncertainties and risks
ahead should act as a spur for all players in the global economy
to work for a successful conclusion of the deadlocked Doha round
of trade liberalisation talks.


"The best contribution the WTO can make is to keep strengthening
the multilateral trading system," Lamy said in a statement.


"A successful conclusion to the Doha Round holds great potential
for boosting growth and alleviating poverty," he added.


The WTO report said greater risks of a downturn in financial and
property markets and large current account imbalances were
fuelling investor uncertainty.


"The consensus among forecasters favours a moderate deceleration
in world economic growth in 2007," it added.


However, economic fundamentals in the major economies are strong
enough to keep global growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
close to 3.0 percent, compared to 3.7 percent last year, the
report underlined.


The United States is likely to bear the brunt of the slowdown of
GDP growth, while any European let-up was likely to be less
pronounced.


Japan could avoid a slowdown in growth altogether, the report
said.


In such a scenario, developed economies could maintain their
average GDP growth at 2.5 percent in 2007.


The modest slowdown is likely to have an impact in the developing
world, although economies there remain set to grow at twice the
rate of their developed counterparts, the WTO said.


"The slowdown in industrial markets is likely to contribute to
less dynamic growth in the developing world ... the most likely
scenario is that GDP growth in 2007 will slow down in all
regions," the global trade body said.

