

A Cambodian court Thursday upheld the prison terms of two men
accused of killing labour leader Chea Vichea, despite widespread
claims that their arrests were a cover-up for a political
assassination.


Chea Vichea, who headed the country's largest labour union and
was a vocal critic of Prime Minister Hun Sen's government, was
gunned down at a Phnom Penh newsstand in 2004.


The daylight murder shocked the country and was condemned by
Cambodian and international rights groups as a brutal attempt to
silence the opposition-linked workers' group.


Just days after the killing, Born Samnang and Sok Sam Oeun were
arrested and quickly sentenced to 20 years in prison in what the
rights watchdog Amnesty International called a "deeply flawed
criminal investigation and trial."


Since the two were convicted, one of the trial's key witnesses,
the owner of the newsstand where Chea Vichea was killed, has
recanted, saying the men who shot the unionist were not Born
Samnang and Sok Sam Oeun.


Former Phnom Penh police chief Heng Pov, who led the
investigation, also admitted last August the two did not kill
Chea Vichea.


The pair denied any involvement in the killing and have fought
their convictions, but on Thursday a three-judge appeals panel
refused to overturn the ruling by the Phnom Penh Municipal Court
to jail the two.


"The decision made by Phnom Penh Municipal Court is valid. ...
The Court of Appeal upholds the verdict," judge Saly Theara told
a stunned courtroom packed with diplomats, rights advocates and
relatives of the convicted men.


Rights advocates have reacted with outrage, calling the decision
"politically biased."


"The court did not use its independent power to make a fair and
reasonable decision on this case," a coalition of rights groups
said in a statement.


"The verdict is not based on adequate evidence and it ignored
many irregularities by the police and municipal court in this
case," the groups added.


Neither Born Samnang nor Sok Sam Oeun were present for the
verdict, which followed a hearing last week during which they
said they were being scapegoated for the crime.


But Born Samnang's mother, Nuon Kimsry, said after Thursday's
proceedings that the decision was a "grave injustice."


"He knows nothing about the killing. Please help my son, he is
innocent," the distraught woman said, begging for help from Hun
Sen and former king Norodom Sihanouk.


Sok Sam Oeun's father, Vuon Phon, also appealed for help, urging
the prime minister to consider pardoning his son.


"I had hoped the court would free my son, but in the end I am
hopeless after the court upheld the verdict," he said.


Since Chea Vichea's death, attacks on labour leaders have
increased, including the killing of two other prominent
unionists, amid escalating tensions between workers and garment
factory owners.


Cambodia's garment sector is a key money-spinner, accounting for
around 80 percent of the impoverished country's export earnings.

