

Influential weekly The Economist came out in favour of
rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy for the French presidency Thursday,
while saying its choice was "faute de mieux" -- for want of
anyone better.


In a leading article 10 days before the April 22 first round of
voting, it said Sarkozy represented "France's Chance" for reform
-- and likened him to a Napoleon arriving on horseback on its
front cover.


Socialist Segolene Royal's attractions include that she is the
first serious female contender, and her "willingness to break
with Socialist taboos" by, for example, praising Britain's Tony
Blair and criticizing France's 35-hour week.


"Unfortunately her policies are woolly even by modern standards.
And in economics, she stands squarely behind all the old left-
wing shibboleths: state intervention, rigid labour protection and
high taxes," it said.


Centrist Francois Bayrou was "more promising," the Economist
said, noting his pledge to curb public debt. "But he has failed
to promote a free-market agenda -- he is distressingly fond of
farm subsidies and state intervention.


"Which leaves Mr Sarkozy as the best of the bunch. Unlike the
others, and despite his long service as a minister under Mr
Chirac, he makes no bones of admitting that France needs radical
change," it said.


But there are two doubts about Sarkozy. "As he showed in his
brief stint as finance minister, he has most of the traditional
French politician's meddlesome economic instincts," such as
protecting national champions.


It also noted "a second unattractive streak: a form of nativism,
reflected in his harsh comments about immigrants and national
identity.


"On the evidence of his career and his campaign, Mr Sarkozy is
less a principled liberal than a brutal pragmatist," it said.


"Yet he is the only candidate brave enough to advocate the
rupture with its past that France needs after so many gloomy
years.


"It has been said that France advances by revolution from time to
time but seldom, if ever, manages to reform. Mr Sarkozy offers at
least a chance of proving this aphorism wrong."

