

Unheralded Huang Ming-jie provided the sparkle for the local
charge when he grabbed the joint first-round lead with Raphael
Jacquelin of France at the Volvo China Open here Thursday.


Huang, 26, fired a three-under-par 68 with seven birdies against
four dropped shots on a tough scoring day at the Shanghai Silport
Golf Club while Jacquelin fired five birdies against two bogeys.


Steady putting helped American Gary Rusnak into third position a
stroke back, while Australia's Unho Park and Adam Blyth, New
Zealander Richard Lee and England's Yasin Ali were tied fourth,
two strokes off the pace.


Also sharing fourth place were locals Qiu Zhi-feng, Ireland's
Graeme McDowell, South African Richard Sterne, Dutchman Robert
Jan-Derksen, Chris Hanell and Michael Jonzon of Sweden and
Denmark's Thomas Bjorn.


"It is my first time leading a tournament. I shall keep my pace
and hope to play it safe," said Huang, who is making his third
Volvo China Open appearance.


Huang bogeyed the first three holes but recovered with a birdie
on the fifth before dropping another shot on the sixth hole.


He bounced back with birdies on the eighth and ninth holes before
firing four more birdies on the back nine.


"I was not really steady in the first few holes. I saw the
results from the morning session players and it was not good at
all. I then targeted to finish one over, so I am very happy to
finish at three under," said Huang, who turned professional in
2003 and ranked fourth on the domestic circuit last season.


Jacquelin, a European Tour winner, adjusted well to the gusting
winds to breeze through the front nine with three birdies. Two
more birdies against an equal number of bogeys on his inward nine
steered him to the top of the leaderboard alongside Huang.


"I am very pleased with my result. I worked on the putting green
and it feels pretty good," said the 32-year-old Frenchman, who
finished runner-up in Portugal two weeks ago.


With five birdies against a bogey and a double bogey, Rusnak said
his performance in the opening round was a reflection of his hard
work on the putting green the past two weeks.

