

Kurt Vonnegut, the creator of wry science fiction and black
comedy built on his experience as a World War II prisoner of war
who survived the horrific Dresden bombing, died late Tuesday, the
New York Times reported.


Vonnegut was the author of "Slaughterhouse-Five," widely rated as
one of the finest American novels of the 20th century, "Cat's
Cradle," and "Breakfast of Champions."


He died aged 84 in New York City after suffering brain injuries
in a fall several weeks ago, his longtime friend Morgan Entrekin
told the Times.


Born in Indianapolis, Indiana in 1922, Vonnegut was captured
inside German lines in 1945 following the Battle of the Bulge.


Confined to an underground meat packing cellar in Dresden when
Allied bombers descended upon the city, he was one of just seven
US prisoners who survived the devastating firestorm that engulfed
the city.


That experience formed the core of "Slaughterhouse Five,"
published in the midst of the furor over the Vietnam war in 1969
to widespread acclaim.


"All this happened, more or less," is the memorable line opening
the metaphysical, humanist tale of a soldier "unstuck in time" in
an underground Dresden abattoir.


After the war he moved to Chicago where he worked as a local
police reporter and entered the University of Chicago in pursuit
of a master's degree in anthropology.


His thesis on "The Fluctuations Between Good and Evil in Simple
Tales," was famously rejected by all the members of a faculty
panel, and he only earned the degree in 1971 when the university
accepted "Cat's Cradle" as the thesis.


In 1947 he moved to New York and began writing for magazines and
took up odd jobs. He published his first of 14 novels in 1952.
"Player Piano" was a futuristic study of a society dominated by
machines but with deep divides between upper and lower classes,
painted with the irony and humor that identified his later
novels.


His next book, "The Sirens of Titan," came out in 1959, another
science fiction novel heavy with satire and featuring the "Church
of God the Utterly Indifferent."


But his name was made in 1963 with the publishing of "Cat's
Cradle." Heavily autobiographical, it featured a narrator who is
an author writing a book about the dropping of an atomic bomb on
Hiroshima, called "The Day the World Ended."


The book has since become a standard for literature students in
US schools.


He continued to publish short stories and essays, and then hit
the tops of book sales charts in 1969 with "Slaughterhouse Five,"
which the Times called at the time "psychedelic."


It opens with a classic paragraph:


"All this happened, more or less. The war parts, anyway, are
pretty much true. One guy I knew really was shot in Dresden for
taking a teapot that wasn't his. Another guy I knew really did
threaten to have his personal enemies killed by hired gunmen
after the war. And so on. I've changed all the names."


In an interview with the Times that year, he summed up his
approach. "You can't write novels without a touch of paranoia ...
I'm paranoid as an act of good citizenship, concerned about what
the powerful people are up to."


His success did not prevent a descent into personal despair and a
suicide attempt in 1985, which evoked his mother's own suicide 41
years earlier.


But even that became fodder for his sardonic, self-effacing work.


He published his last full-length book, "Timequake," in 1997, and
wrote in his later years searing and humorous asides in the
Chicago leftist magazine "In These Times."


Months before the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, he bemoaned the
coming war: "I myself feel that our country, for whose
Constitution I fought in a just war, might as well have been
invaded by Martians and body snatchers."


Vonnegut was married twice. His first wife was Jane Marie Cox,
whom he married after returning from the war. With Cox he had
three children. They also adopted the three children of
Vonnegut's sister after she died of cancer.


He separated from Cox in the 1970s and they divorced in 1979,
after which he married photographer Jill Krementz. They also
adopted a child.

