

Southeast Asia's biggest lender DBS Bank and 22 prominent
investors from the Middle East Gulf region on Monday launched
Singapore's first Islamic bank.


The Islamic Bank of Asia (IB Asia) will have an initial paid up
capital of 418 million US dollars, with DBS contributing 60
percent of the amount, the lender said in a statement.


Investors plan to raise the new Islamic bank's paid up capital in
the next few weeks to 500 million dollars, with DBS, which is
also Singapore's biggest bank by assets, continuing to hold a
majority stake.


Islamic banking, which fuses principles of sharia or Islamic law
and modern banking, is a global business worth about 400 billion
dollars annually and growing, said DBS chief executive Jackson
Tai.


Islamic funds are banned from investing in companies associated
with tobacco, alcohol or gambling considered taboo by Muslims.


"IB Asia will focus on commercial banking, corporate finance,
capital market and private banking," the DBS statement said.


It described DBS' partners as coming from "prominent families and
industrial groups from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries."


The GCC comprises the oil-rich nations of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain,
Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.


The new bank, a subsidiary of DBS, will have a nine-member board
of directors, chaired by Abdulla Hasan Saif, the advisor for
economic affairs to Bahrain's prime minister.


Vince Cook, 45, a veteran British banker with more than 20 years
experience in the Middle East, has been named chief executive.


Tai of DBS said IB Asia will develop and distribute sharia-
compliant financial instruments for corporate and private banking
clients in the Middle East and Asia.


He noted that there is an increasing interest in the Middle East
among global firms, including many from Asia, resulting in 20
billion dollars in foreign direct investments in Gulf countries
in 2005, up 60 percent over 2004.


At the same time, Asia is also "the centre stage for massive
capital flows" from Europe, North America, the Middle East and
within the region itself, he said.


"Why shouldn't Asia and the Middle East actively intermediate
capital and take the lead in deciding how to allocate capital for
Asia and the Middle East?" Tai asked in a speech at the launching
ceremonies.


Tai said that the bank's sharia board, which oversees compliance
with Islamic laws, includes four of the world's most respected
Islamic scholars.


DBS began its serious foray into Islamic finance last year when
the bank was granted a licence to operate in Dubai where it has
opened a branch offering wholesale banking products and services.


Singapore faces rivalry from neighbours Malaysia and Brunei in
chasing Islamic funds.

