

Nicolas Sarkozy's election victory gives Turkey another reason to
worry about its EU bid, but many here believe that once the new
French president takes office, his pragmatism will outweigh his
hostility to Ankara's membership.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan voiced hopes Monday that the
French leader would soften his position on Turkey's European
aspirations.


"We hope we will not see in our bilateral relations from now on
the same attitudes that Sarkozy displayed during his election
campaign regarding our European Union (accession) process and
Turkish-French ties," Erdogan said.


Sarkozy is staunchly opposed to Turkey joining the 27-member
bloc, arguing that most of Turkey's territory is in Asia and that
the idea of a united Europe would be diluted if its borders
stretch that far.


He instead advocates a "privileged partnership" between the EU
and Turkey rather than full membership for the sizeable mainly
Muslim nation.


Political commentator Dogu Ergil suggested Sarkozy could follow
the example of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who was also
opposed to Turkey's accession, but said she would abide by
existing agreements between Ankara and Brussels once she took
office in 2005.


Sarkozy had displayed a "certain opportunism in addressing the
worries and fears of French voters," Ergil said. "But once
elected, politicians become statesmen and can no longer be
personal."


The mass-selling Milliyet newspaper echoed the same hope.


Sarkozy's election "will increase the potential of already chilly
Turkish-French ties to worsen... But it is not impossible for
Sarkozy, who is more of a pragmatic politician than an ideologue,
to change his stance once he becomes president."


Questioned as to the possible impact of Sarkozy's election,
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso indicated no
change in the EU's negotiations with Ankara.


"We negotiate with Turkey on the basis of a mandate that was
decided unanimously... We recommend to member states only to take
a decision on whether or not Turkey should join based on the
results of these negotiations," Barroso said.


But some Turkish analysts remain pessimistic.


"The conditions that were applied to the central European
countries are no longer working with Turkey... Sarkozy's election
marks the arrival of the moment of truth when this de facto
situation will transform into a legal one," EU expert Cengiz
Aktar said.


"Turkey's accession talks appear to be going on but the process
risks to halt officially in 2009 with the campaign for the
European Parliament elections," he said, adding that Sarkozy
"will be probably the one to hammer the last nail into the coffin
of Turkish-EU relations."


In December, the EU froze talks with Turkey in eight of the 35
policy areas that candidates are required to complete, over
Ankara's rejection to grant trade priviliges to arch-rival
Cyprus.


Turkey has managed to open only two chapters since it won the
green light for talks in October 2005. It cannot formally close
any chapter until the Cyprus dispute is resolved.


Foreign affairs expert Semih Idiz described Sarkozy as a "coarse
representation of the basic fears and concerns of the French
people" on issues such as the integration of Muslims and
immigrants as well as Turkey's eventual EU membership.


"The rise of a Muslim-populated country and the possibility of it
having an equal say with France in the EU cannot be easy to
swallow for 'sugar-coated crypto-fascists'," he wrote in
Milliyet.


Turkish-French ties have also been poisoned by France's
recognition of the massacre of Armenians between 1915 and 1918 in
the dying days of the Ottoman Empire as an act of genocide.


According to the Turkish press, Sarkozy also said that if he was
elected president, he would sign into law a bill, passed in the
National Assembly in October, that makes it a jailable offense to
deny the killings were genocide -- a label Ankara fiercely
rejects.

