

Pro-independence Scots who won a narrow majority of seats in the
Scottish parliament appealed Monday to the reluctant Liberal
Democrats to join them in formal negotiations for a new coalition
government.


The LibDems, who had been a junior coalition partner with
Britain's ruling Labour Party until Thursday's elections, are
spurning offers from the Scottish National Party (SNP) so long as
it pushes for a referendum on independence.


But SNP leader Alex Salmond told BBC Radio's Today programme that
there was still room for the two parties to resolve their
differences over forming a government by May 30 and avoid
triggering a new election.


"The way to break a log jam is to get round the table and to have
discussions, that's what I would like to see," Salmond said,
adding he hoped it would not take until the end of the month to
form a new government.


His deputy Nicola Sturgeon told BBC radio's Good Morning Scotland
that the SNP believed in an independence referendum by 2010, "but
beyond that principle, there is plenty of scope for negotiation."


She did not elaborate but the SNP has floated the idea of
offering voters a choice of independence or greater sovereignty
under the British government's process of devolving powers from
London to Scotland and Wales.


Prime Minister Tony Blair's government in 1999 gave Scotland
powers over health, education, housing and the environment, but
not defence, foreign and economic policy.


Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Nicol Stephen said on Sunday he
had made clear to Salmond that there could be no coalition until
the SNP removed the "fundamental barrier" of an independence
referendum.


The Liberal Democrats said the election results did not give the
emerging government a mandate to end the 300-year-old union
between England and Scotland.


Though he preferred to build a coalition, Salmond said the SNP
could end up heading a minority government with its 47 seats in
the 129-member Scottish Parliament, which he added was "not an
entirely bad thing."


Far short of seats to rule alone, the SNP could still secure a
one-seat majority if it teamed up with the Liberal Democrats, who
won 16 seats, and the Greens, with two.


Sturgeon said the SNP hoped to make progress Monday in bringing
the Greens into a coalition.


It was unclear whether the Liberal Democrats have ruled out a new
coalition with Labour, which won 46 seats in the Scottish
Parliament -- the first time the governing party had been runner-
up in one of its traditional bases since 1955.


The Conservatives won 17 seats in the Edinburgh assembly last
Thursday.


Labour also suffered a drubbing in elections to English municipal
councils as well as a setback in the Welsh Assembly.


The SNP said it would try hard to form a coalition with the
LibDems, but was not certain it could.


"It may be that we can't resolve our differences -- but I think
we both have a duty in the interest of the country to try," SNP
deputy leader Sturgeon said.


Scottish Labour leader and current first minister of Scotland,
Jack McConnell, said he "stands ready" to form a government with
the LibDems if the SNP's attempt failed.

