

The European Commission on Monday announced a raft of new
projects aimed at improving the integration of immigrants from
outside the EU that will include adopting a more multi-faith
approach.


The new initiatives, announced ahead of a meeting of EU ministers
responsible for integration on Thursday, are aimed at promoting
the integration of non-EU citizens and to "seek out and evaluate
good practice in the integration field," the Commission said in a
statement.


"The reality now is that ... you have problems in a number of
member states," Friso Roscam Abbing, justice and security affairs
spokesman commissioner, admitted.


"It is only relatively recently that we have been dealing a
little bit more seriously with this issue," he added.


"Before you had some kind of passive tolerance. With hindsight it
is clear that this may not have been the best approach, what we
need to know is how best to live with each other and not just
next to each other".


Among the initiatives, to be funded under a new 825-million-euro
(1.1 billion dollar) European integration fund, is a multi-faith
project.


It's aim is "to counter exclusion and foster integration among
migrant communities in the EU by familiarising religious leaders
with the core European values and the multicultural and multi-
faith environment in the EU".


Another initiative is a "one-stop shop" model to refine the
network of partners dealing with immigrant integration.


At the EU integration ministers meeting in Potsdam on May 10-11
the second edition of a handbook on integration will be released
by consultants the Migration Policy Group.


This will suggest tools to help governmental and non-governmental
sectors "to adjust policies and practices to the changing
realities of a diverse society".


Among the EU best practices identified is a French volunteer
mentoring system, in which retirees act as mentors for young
migrants.


All the EU integration initiatives are aimed at assimilating
legal immigrants into the EU.


The bloc is beefing up its Warsaw-based Frontex border agency,
which aims to keep out illegal immigrants, especially on key
routes from Africa into mainland Europe's southern Mediterranean
shores or Spain's Canary Islands in the Atlantic.

