

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Monday she had spoken to
French president- elect Nicolas Sarkozy about maintaining the
French-German relationship at the heart of Europe.


"We spoke about continuing the cooperation between Germany and
France and intensifying it," she said.


Merkel said she spoke by telephone to her fellow conservative,
who defeated Socialist candidate Segolene Royal convincingly on
Sunday, to congratulate him on his "great election victory."


"I wished Nicolas Sarkozy all the best and much success with his
task. I think we will work together very well."


The partnership between France and Germany has often been
described as the "motor" of the EU and was given high priority by
outgoing French President Jacques Chirac.


Germany is keen to assure that the relationship remains a driving
force within Europe.


Merkel's spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm said the chancellor and Sarkozy
had already in the past discussed the importance of close ties
and cooperation between Paris and Berlin.


"Their conversation picked up from what they have said to each
other several times with a view to a successful presidential
candidacy -- that the good cooperation should continue and that
we should build on it."


Berlin is expected to be one of the first foreign visits that
Sarkozy makes. Germany holds the EU presidency until the end of
June.


Merkel will host fellow EU leaders at a summit on June 21-22
where she is expected to present a roadmap for adopting a revised
constitutional treaty for the 27-nation bloc.


She is expected to look for Sarkozy's help on the constitution as
the original was shelved after it was rejected by French and
Dutch voters in 2005. Sarkozy has proposed adopting an
abbreviated text.


Wilhelm recalled that Paris was Merkel's first stop after she was
sworn in as chancellor in late 2005 but said it was too soon to
speak of a date for Sarkozy's visit.


"When he visited Berlin as candidate he promised to come here
very soon if elected and we must now have the discussions to know
when this visit can take place," Wilhelm said.

