

Nicolas Sarkozy has fought his way to the Elysee palace with a
combination of will-power, ambition and an unshakeable conviction
that only his right-wing reforms can rescue France from decline.


Sarkozy, 52, will be the first son of an immigrant to become
French president and he is often decried as arrogant.


The teetotal head of France's ruling party has methodically
overcome a series of obstacles in his path to power, time and
again deploying energy and determination in pursuit of his
presidential goal.


After Sunday's election victory, he now stands vindicated in his
belief that France is ready for the radical changes that he
proposes -- changes based on his campaign themes of hard work,
individual responsibility and respect for France's "national
values".


Sarkozy's relentless political drive can be traced back to his
youth as the child of a Hungarian immigrant father -- and the
grandson of a Greek Jew on his mother's side -- in the posh Paris
suburb of Neuilly.


He has told interviewers that his father's abandonment of the
family four years after his birth left him with a powerful
feeling of inadequacy, and a consequent need to keep proving
himself to the world.


As a young man he reacted against the fashionable left-wing views
associated with the May 1968 student uprising -- a regular target
in his campaign rhetoric -- and attached himself to the rising
star of the Gaullist right, future president Jacques Chirac.


He set himself apart from France's ruling establishment by not
attending the elite National Administration School (ENA), instead
training as a lawyer. Much of his appeal today rests on his claim
to have worked his way to the top by personal effort.


Sarkozy entered elected office at just 28 as mayor of Neuilly,
and came to national attention for his courageous handling of a
hostage crisis in a kindergarten there in 1993.


As a junior minister he made a tactical error in 1995 when he
backed a rival of Chirac for the presidency, and then spent
several years in political purgatory. But at Chirac's re-election
in 2002, Sarkozy rejoined the government, and embarked seriously
on his plan to succeed him.


For the last five years Sarkozy has dominated French politics,
serving at the interior ministry for four years, finance for one,
and transforming the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP)
into a personal electoral machine.


His inexhaustible energy and blunt-speaking analysis of France's
social and economic problems won many admirers, but at the same
time a view took hold that he was a dangerous authoritarian who
would divide rather than unite the country as president.


For his opponents on the left, this fear was borne out in the
2005 riots by black and Arab youths -- which Sarkozy was widely
accused of stoking. In the election campaign, he was denigrated
as a "brutal" and "dangerous" leader who flirted with the ideas
of far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


Sarkozy himself indignantly rejected the charges of racism --
arguing that it is his policies of affirmative action and labour
market reform that will do most for France's poorest.


It is a measure of Sarkozy's political talent that he succeeded
in posing as a candidate of "la rupture" -- a clean break from
the policies of the past -- even as he remained in Chirac's
government up to a few weeks before the election.


He undercut the threat from Le Pen by holding open the door to
far-right voters. At the same time -- for all the attacks on his
"divisive" nature -- he  knitted together an alliance that
includes Chirac loyalists, radical free-market liberals and
centrist supporters of state welfare.


On Sunday these were the forces that brought to fulfilment his
long-nurtured poltical dream.

