

The United Nations on Monday called for calm in East Timor in the
run-up to this week's presidential election, the first in the
troubled nation since it gained independence in 2002, amid
concerns of unrest.


The UN mission in the tiny state urged voters to accept the
result of Wednesday's runoff which many East Timorese hope will
help stabilise the impoverished nation beset by violence and
regional rivalry.


Election observers have expressed concern that supporters of the
ruling Fretilin party could trigger violence if their candidate,
Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, lost on Wednesday.


Guterres faces Nobel laureate and current prime minister Jose
Ramos-Horta in the runoff being held because neither candidate
won a majority in the first-round polls last month.


Asked if the UN mission was concerned violence would erupt once
the result was declared, spokeswoman Allison Cooper said: "We
would urge all people in East Timor to remain calm and peaceful
-- so far this has been a free and fair process."


Ramos-Horta, who shared the Nobel peace prize in 1996 for
championing East Timor's cause under Indonesian occupation, is
favoured to win after five of the six losing candidates in the
April 9 poll urged their supporters to back him, observers say.


Campaigning for the election has been peaceful, amid tight
security provided by thousands of UN and local police, backed by
international peacekeeping troops, deployed in the wake of unrest
last year.


"There have been no major incidents of violence or intimidation
reported to the United Nations mission here during the election
process," said Cooper.


"We are confident that the election will proceed smoothly."


Timor expert Damien Kingsbury has told AFP that Fretilin
supporters could take to the streets in some areas outside of the
capital if Guterres lost.


"We are getting mixed messages about whether Fretilin will
gracefully accept defeat," said Kingsbury from Australia's Deakin
University.


Fretilin, founded as a resistance movement that fought for
independence from Portugal and later Indonesia, retains a strong
support base in this nation of one million people.


Guterres, Fretilin president and speaker of the parliament, has
urged against violence, telling his supporters to peacefully
accept the election result.


"If it is the people who chose, then one has to accept the
victory and the other his fate," he told reporters Sunday.


Meanwhile, Australian-led peacekeeping troops rejected Monday
Fretilin accusations that they were deliberately intimidating
party supporters and disrupting its campaign rallies.


Fretilin officials have written to the troops' commander,
Brigadier Mal Rerden, complaining about the intimidation, which
they suggested was done in support of Ramos-Horta.


A spokesman for the peacekeepers, known as the International
Stabilisation Force, said all of their East Timor operations were
done to "ensure a safe and secure election."


"ISF maintains a neutral and impartial position in the
presidential election process and has not made any comments in
support of any candidate or political party," it said in a
statement.


Troops were dispatched after unrest in May last year that killed
at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000 to flee their
homes. About 37,000 people are still displaced in the capital
Dili.


East Timor, formally known as Timor-Leste, gained independence in
May 2002 after a period of UN stewardship that followed 24 years
of occupation by Indonesia.

