

Israel's internal political turmoil should not affect peace
efforts, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni said on Monday ahead of her
visit to Egypt for talks about an Arab peace plan.


"The political situation in Israel is not a secret, but I do
believe that when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
when it comes to the Israeli need to normalise its relations with
the entire Arab world, it represents the vast majority of
Israelis," Livni told a joint news conference with her German
counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier.


She was referring to rising voices in Israel calling on Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert to resign in the wake of a government
inquiry that blasted him for serious failures during last year's
war against Hezbollah in Lebanon.


Livni had herself called on Olmert to quit after the report
released a week ago, but on Sunday she pledged to continue
working in his cabinet.


Steinmeier, whose country currently holds the rotating European
Union presidency, warned that Middle East diplomatic efforts
should be continued because "time is not on our side."


"The situation in the Middle East peace process does not allow us
to take any breaks," he said.


Steinmeier invited Livni to attend an EU foreign ministers
meeting in June in Luxembourg, following the invitation that he
extended to Arab ministers during a meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh
for a conference bringing together the foreign ministers of
Iraq's neighbours and major world powers.


Livni is due to travel to Egypt on Thursday for talks on an Arab
plan for comprehensive Middle East peace that was revived at a
March Arab League summit in Saudi Arabia.


The blueprint offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws from
all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and allows for the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


Israel, which rejected the plan when it was first launched at a
Beirut summit in 2002, has in recent months said it could provide
a basis for talks, provided there are amendments to the refugee
issue -- something the Arab League has so far refused to do.


Olmert on Monday "reiterated Israel's refusal to accept the right
of return as it is expressed in the Arab initiative," his office
quoted him as saying.


And Livni urged the Arab states to be flexible in their talks.


"The linkage between the relations of the Arab world with Israel
to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict is something we can
understand," she said.


"But I do believe that to put to Israel... a plan saying these
are the parameters for a final status agreement, that is wrong,"
she said.


The Arab League has tasked Jordan and Egypt to persuade Israel to
accept the Arab peace initiative. They are the only two Arab
countries to have signed peace treaties with the Jewish state.

