

Nicolas Sarkozy's win in France's presidential election was
broadly welcomed in the Western press on Monday though some media
in Africa and the Middle East expressed hostility to the new
leader.


Most papers dubbed him a man of action, with the right qualities
to deal with France's long list of troubles, not least its
stuttering economy and high unemployment.


However, there was also suspicon of his pledge to control
immigration that will affect many in Africa who beat a path to
France for work and opportunity.


Old enmities in France's former colonial possessions also
surfaced with some editorials in Algeria highlighting his Jewish
background and apparent lack of willingness to recognise France's
colonial "crimes".


In Germany, France's main partner in the European Union, papers
highlighted the chance for Sarkozy to make up for the "lost"
years under outgoing President Jacques Chirac whose 12 years in
power were marked by stagnation.


"Not only France but also the Europeans expect that Sarkozy will
make up for lost ground," wrote the centre-left German daily
Berliner Zeitung.


The economic daily Handelsblatt said that "after 12 years of
Jacques Chirac, the weakest president of the Fifth Republic, a
new strongman has arrived at the Elysee."


British papers also noted the passing of a generation with the
Times of London, a right-of-centre paper, describing Sarkozy's
victory as "the most important political change in France for a
generation".


The right-wing Daily Telegraph in Britain declared that the 52
-year-old former interior minister "represents his country's
last, best chance to join the 21st century."


Similar thoughts were expressed in fellow EU members Italy, Spain
and Greece where an editorial in the Ethnos newspaper said:
"Sarkozy triumphed because he answered with clarity the questions
of a society that is terrorized by the future's uncertainties."


It continued that his opponent, the defeated socialist candidate
Segolene Royal "was crushed because she clumsily defended the
conquests of the past, without managing to persuade that they
could be viable tomorrow."


In Hungary, there was much talk of Sarkozy being the son of a
minor Hungarian artistocrat who fled his homeland in 1944 to take
refuge in France.


"Why did the French vote for the son of a Hungarian refugee with
an unpronouncable last name?," asked the daily Nepszabadsag.
Because when someone has a serious ailment he turns to a doctor.
And he is the best doctor right now for France".


In the nearby Czech Republic, the Hospodarske Noviny said Sarkozy
would do for France what Margaret Thatcher did for Britain and
Jose Maria Aznar achieved for Spain by taking both countries in a
radical conservative direction.


Turkey's press meanwhile was negative about the conservative's
victory and its effect on Ankara's hopes for eventual European
Union membership.


Sarkozy has repeatedly said that he doesn't think Turkey should
be a member of the EU.


"Alas! It is Sarko," the popular Aksam daily said on its front
page while the Milliyet newspaper said: "Sarkozy the new obstacle
on the path towards EU."


Sarkozy's election "will increase the potential of already chilly
Turkish-French ties to worsen," Milliyet said.


Meanwhile, in Africa, there were more critical voices. In
Senegal, a former French colony, Le Soleil, wrote that Sarkozy's
"paternalistic and ethnocentrique, sometimes racist" vision
"wories a good number of Africans."


L'Observateur daily described there being "fear and worry among
African immigrants" adding that "in place of an immigration of
choice that he trumpeted everywhere Sarkozy nevertheless speaks
of a restricted immigration."


In Sierra Leone, another African country where France has
important relations, commentators expressed the hope that
Sarkozy's election would mark the end of the Chirac era
characterised by France "being the friend of corrupt (African)
governments".


In one of France's most important former colonies and near
neighbour, Algeria, French language papers carried largely
factual reports of his victory.


However, the Arab language press was notably more critical. "The
little Bush, president of France", declared Ech-chourouk on its
front page, adding: "Good bye Gaullism, France's Jews have put
Sarkozy in power".


Sarkozy was brought up by his Jewish grandmother after his
parents divorced. However, that link was played up by the Israeli
press.


The Jewish origins of the next Catholic French president have
provoked large hopes in Jerusalem," said a front-page headline in
the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot, predicting a "new era in
relations with France".


In the United States, Washington Post columnist, Jim Hoagland,
cautioned that Sarkozy's success wouldn't automatically lead to
an end to Chirac's combative relations with Washington.


"Do not expect Sarkozy to be as immediately active in dismantling
Chirac's foreign policy, which sought to establish Europe as a
counterweight to American influence abroad," Hoagland writes.


"Sarkozy is impressed far more by what the United States does at
home than by its global aims and presence. He would like France
to emulate America's domestic dynamism, not the Bush
administration's ambitious reach abroad."

