

US aluminum giant Alcoa said Monday it was launching a hostile
bid of 33 billion dollars for Canadian rival Alcan, saying the
acquisition would create a "premier" global leader in the sector.


Alcoa, the world's second-largest aluminum company, said it was
offering 73.25 US dollars per share for Alcan, a 32 percent
premium to Alcan's closing price on Friday.


"The transaction will create a premier diversified global
aluminum company, with a complementary portfolio of assets and
enhanced growth opportunities, and better position the combined
company to build value for shareholders," Alcoa said in a
statement.


Alain Belda, chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, said the
offer was made after nearly two years of discussions between the
two firms on a tie-up that had failed.


"We are very disappointed that those efforts did not result in a
negotiated transaction -- a conclusion we would have strongly
preferred," he said.


"We believe firmly in the compelling strategic rationale behind
the combination of Alcoa and Alcan and are convinced that this
transaction creates substantial value for both sets of
shareholders and for our customers around the world. We are
therefore taking our offer directly to Alcan shareholders."


The offer would be launched to Alcan shareholders starting
Tuesday and expire July 10, Alcoa said.


Alcoa said a tie-up would create "a stronger, more diverse global
competitor with the scale and cost structure to be competitive
over the long term within a rapidly changing industry landscape."


The US firm said a combined company would also have increased
financial resources for environmental initiatives such as curbing
greenhouse-gas emissions.


Alcan acquired French aluminum maker Pechiney in late 2004,
creating at the time the biggest packaging and the second-biggest
aluminum group in the world, behind Alcoa.


Alcoa's number-one spot was eclipsed by a merger in March of
Russian aluminum producers Rusal and Sual with Switzerland's
Glencore.


Belda said in a letter to Alcan president and CEO Richard Evans
that the merger could generate some one billion dollars in cost
savings while providing more cash for research and development.


He said that if a merger is completed, the group would maintain
dual heaquarters in Montreal and New York, and have strategic
corporate leaders in both cities.


He pledged to locate the primary metals research and development
unit to Quebec, and another pilot in the province.


"I do not believe any other company can make such a significant
commitment to Montreal, Canada and Quebec," he said in the
letter.


The deal is subject to review by antitrust authorities in the US,
Canada, the European Union, Australia and Brazil. It also
requires foreign investment clearance in Canada, France and
Australia.

