

The United States and European Union led congratulations to
French election winner Nicolas Sarkozy, who is expected to forge
closer ties with Washington and work to raise Europe's global
standing.


US President George W. Bush was among the first world leaders to
telephone the right-wing Sarkozy to congratulate him on his
convincing victory over the socialist candidate Segolene Royal.


"The United States and France are historic allies and partners.
President Bush looks forward to working with president-elect
Sarkozy as we continue our strong alliance," said Gordon
Johndroe, spokesman for the White House National Security
Council.


In his victory speech, Sarkozy said the United States could count
on a friendship with France, which "will always be at their side
when they need help."


Franco-American relations cooled dramatically in 2003 when Paris,
under its now outgoing President Jacques Chirac, took a leading
role in the United Nations in opposition to Washington's plans to
invade Iraq.


European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he had
"full confidence" in the 52-year-old right-winger to "provide a
driving force" for reform in the 27-country bloc.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sarkozy would strengthen the
French-German axis at the heart of the EU, which will "continue
to be the basis to secure lasting peace, democracy and prosperity
in Europe."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair telephoned Sarkozy to
congratulate him on his win, and Spain's Socialist Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said the president-elect represented
"an open and modern right."


Slovenia's Prime Minister Janez Jansa -- whose country will be
the first of new EU members to hold the union's presidency in the
first half of 2008 before handing over to France -- said he
expected Sarkozy's win to herald "positive moves" on the future
of the European Union.


Ankara meanwhile expressed hopes that Sarkozy will soften his
opposition to Turkey becoming a member of the EU.


"We hope we will not see in our bilateral relations from now on
the same attitudes that Sarkozy displayed during his election
campagin regarding our European Union (accession) process and
Turkish-French ties," Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that he and Sarkozy could
work together towards peace in the Middle East. The right-wing
opposition chief Benjamin Netanyahu said that "with Sarkozy,
France's politics will be much more balanced."


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas congratulated Sarkozy and
"expressed to him his hope that France will continue its support
for the Palestinian people and their rights," his spokesman told
AFP.


Chinese President Hu Jintao also offered his congratulations,
promising "to turn a new page of friendly relations and all-round
cooperation," according to the Xinhua news agency.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe welcomed the victory of
Sarkozy, who once made fun of sumo -- one of the favourites of
Chirac.  But he has promised to support Tokyo's bid to win a
permanent seat in the UN Security Council.


In Afghanistan, the Taliban insurgent movement warned that a new
French government must pull troops out of the country, but
offered to extend a deadline over the release of a French
hostage.


Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he had met
Sarkozy, "and I think he'll make a fine president."


New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark said she hoped relations
between France and New Zealand would continue to improve.


"France is an important partner for us and things have come a
long way since the times of nuclear testing and the Rainbow
Warrior," Clark told Television New Zealand.


Greenpeace's flagship, the Rainbow Warrior, was destroyed in
Auckland Harbour in 1985 by a bomb planted by French military
spies, killing one person.


Relations were further strained in 1995 when Chirac ordered a
resumption of nuclear testing in French Polynesia.


Congratulations also came from French-speaking parts of Africa
such as Algeria and Senegal, where Sarkozy has promised an
overhaul of relations and tacitly criticised Chirac's "personal"
ties with the leaders of questionable regimes.


South African President Thabo Mbeki said he hoped France under
Sarkozy would continue to be a "valued interlocutor and partner"
in efforts to find peace and strengthen democratic government on
the continent.

