

The use of pirated software in computers in most Asian countries
is declining but more enforcement is needed to make a significant
impact on the problem, industry officials said Monday.


The Business Software Alliance (BSA), which represents computer
software and hardware firms worldwide, said figures showing the
use of illegal software had registered a decline in countries
such as China.


"The piracy rates have been decreasing but at a very slow rate.
We just need to step up to try and make sure that it's a more
significant drop," BSA's director of marketing for Asia, Roland
Chan, told AFP.


Chan said the improvement was due to government agencies
conducting more raids on companies using illicit software, and
greater consumer awareness.


"Governments in Asia for the last few years have begun to realise
the importance of cultivating the creative IT industry," Chan
said.


"There's been a concerted effort to address software piracy, both
through educational campaigns and enforcement campaigns," he
said.


In China -- which has one of the highest rates of pirated
software use in Asia -- 86 percent of software in computers in
2005 was illegal, down from 92 percent in 2003, he said.


During the same period, illegal software use in Malaysia
decreased marginally to 60 percent from 63 percent, which still
represented a loss of 149 million dollars to the Malaysian
economy in 2005, he said.


Other Asian countries such as Indonesia, Japan, Singapore,
Vietnam, the Philippines, South Korea and India also showed some
improvement over the period.


Taiwan, Thailand, New Zealand and Australia showed little change.


Increases in illegal use were registered in Hong Kong -- with 54
percent of software illegal in computers in 2005, up from 52
percent in 2003 -- and Pakistan, up to 86 percent from 83 percent
over the same period.


Figures from 2006 will be out later this month.


Malaysian enforcement officers Monday said they had doubled
efforts to conduct raids on companies using counterfeit software,
with 12 raids carried out in the first four months of this year,
compared to 23 for all of 2006.

