

Hundreds of cars were set alight and hundreds of people arrested
in violence that followed the French presidential election
victory of rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy, police said Monday.


But despite the trouble, a police spokesman said that the
widespread    rioting some had feared if Sarkozy won, was largely
averted.


A total of 367 cars were burned in the high-immigrant suburbs in
the hours that followed the triumph of the former interior
minister over Socialist Segolene Royal in the presidential
election.


"The second round of the presidential election did not result in
large-scale urban violence in the flashpoint areas and only a few
groups, here and there, set fire to garbage bins and cars," said
a police spokesman.


Royal had warned in the runup to Sunday's election that a Sarkozy
victory could see the country slide into violence and unrest,
similar to the three weeks of rioting that rocked French suburbs
in late 2005.


The police spokesman said there had only been "a few more" car
burnings than is normal during the July 14 national holiday and
fewer than those on New Year's Eve, according to the national
police directorate.


A total of 270 people were arrested, including 88 in the Paris
suburbs.


Thousands of police reinforcements were deployed round the
capital to head off the risk of unrest in the suburbs where
Sarkozy is a hated figure for his tough stance on immigration and
law and order.


Violence in the cities of Lyon, Nantes, Paris, Toulouse and Renne
was blamed on extreme-left groups, anarchists and apolitical
gangs who clashed with police, injuring 28 of them.


Two police officers were slightly injured by acid thrown at them
by protesters in the western city of Nantes.


Wild celebrations broke out in the capital Sunday night, with
30,000 supporters packing Paris' Place de la Concorde where
Sarkozy delivered a victory speech, pledging to bring
reconciliation.


Riot police fired tear gas at stone-throwing protestors who
burned an effigy of Sarkozy in Paris' Place de la Bastille, a
rallying point for Royal supporters.

