

Newcastle United confirmed on Monday that coach Glenn Roeder has
resigned and the club has started the search for his successor.


The 51-year-old former defender ended his 15 months in charge on
Sunday one day after the 0-2 home loss to Blackburn Rovers in the
Premiership, but there was no official confirmation until Monday.


A statement issued through the club's website said: "Newcastle
United today announced that Glenn Roeder has offered his
resignation as team manager with immediate effect and this has
been accepted by the Newcastle United board."


The loss to Blackburn had left Newcastle languishing in 13th
position in the Premiership and they have not scored a goal at
home for over eight hours, their worst run since 1951.


Speculation has been rife that Roeder will be succeeded by former
Bolton manager Sam Allardyce who turned down the Newcastle job
before Graeme Souness, Roeder's predecessor, was offered it in
2004.


Allardyce resigned as Bolton boss a week ago after seven-
and-a-half years at the helm amid rumours he could also be
appointed Manchester City boss in the summer.


It was not immediately clear who would take charge for Sunday's
final Premiership fixture at Watford, but at least one bookmaker
has stopped taking bets on Allardyce getting the job.


While Allardyce is now available, he still has two and a half
years remaining on his Bolton contract and that would mean a
sizeable compensation payment.


Newcastle were left with a hefty bill after the departures of
Souness and his backroom staff, and with hefty debts, they could
do without having to fork out scarce funds to land his latest
successor.


Whoever the new man is, he, like his most recent predecessors,
faces the task of bringing success to a big club whose supporters
are among the most demanding in the game.


Roeder was desperate for time to turn things around after a
dreadful run of injuries, but his position was virtually
untenable when the fans turned on him for the first time after
Saturday's game.


Much of their anger, however, was directed at chairman Freddy
Shepherd, who has fought off two takeover bids in recent months,
and he now faces the task of appointing a fifth manager in less
than 10 years.


Roeder's replacement will inherit a squad which is packed with
talent on paper at least, but has a depressing capacity for
under-achievement and is in serious need of a radical overhaul.

