

AFC president Mohamed Bin Hammam on Monday launched a stinging
attack on Manchester United, calling them "disrespectful" and
demanding they cancel their Asian tour.


The pre-season commercial tour in July clashes with the Asian Cup
finals, prompting bin Hamman to suggest the new Premier League
champions put something back into Asian football instead of
grabbing its money.


"Cancel your tour -- this is the message on behalf of the whole
Asian football family, all our players, our coaches," he said in
response to AFP questions on the sidelines of the Asian Football
Confederation Congress here.


"It is disrespectful. This is not the solidarity we expect from
the football family.


"We expect Manchester United to look for something more than
money. Asia is giving them so much money during the on-season.
One month every four years and they cannot spare it to not play
in Asia?"


Bin Hammam fears the presence of Manchester United will divert
attention away from the July 7-29 Asian Cup -- the region's
flagship competition being co- hosted by Indonesia, Malaysia,
Thailand and Vietnam.


The AFC is pinning hopes on the tournament sparking new interest
in Asian football from Asian fans.


Last month United announced they would warm up for the 2007-2008
season with a tour that takes them to Japan, South Korea, Macau
and Malaysia.


They plan to kick off against J-League champions Urawa Red
Diamonds on July 17 in Saitama before travelling to the South
Korean capital for a showdown with FC Seoul on July 20.


Alex Ferguson's team are then due to head to Macau for a match
against Shenzhen on July 23, before ending the tour in Kuala
Lumpur on July 27 against a Malaysian XI.


Bin Hamman said the Asian Cup dates were set by FIFA and each
association hosting matches had signed guarantees not to promote
or hold any other football games throughout July and for three
days after the Cup concludes.


He suggested the Football Association of Malaysia could face
disciplinary action but reserved his harshest criticism for
United, who were handed the league title on Sunday when Chelsea
could only manage a 1-1 draw with Arsenal.


"We are trying to encourage more spectators to watch Asian
football but it looks like the people at Manchester want to fight
this idea and corner this market," he said.


"Frankly, it is a colonial way of thinking. It is not fair play
at all.


"We can prevent them playing in Malaysia but I don't want them to
play in Korea, Japan or China either. They are welcome in June,
they are welcome in August, but not in July."


He said he had been in touch with the Football Association as
early as last September about the tour and had initially received
assurances that it would not clash.


Bin Hammam added that he had the support of FIFA president Sepp
Blatter.


"He is of the opinion that everybody must respect the calendar.
It is simple," said bin Hammam.


Blatter is in Kuala Lumpur but was not immediately available for
comment.


In another slap to the Red Devils, the AFC supremo pointed to
their arch-rivals Chelsea as a team that was putting back into
Asia.


"We have a very good example from Chelsea who have signed an
agreement to develop football at the grassroots in Asia, That is
a good example," he said.


In March, Chelsea signed a deal with the AFC to provide financial
and technical support to mainly grassroots football clubs across
China until 2010.

