

Former Taiwan premier Frank Hsieh was all but assured of
contesting the 2008 presidential election for the ruling
Democratic Progressive Party when his last challenger withdrew
Monday.


After winning the first phase Sunday of a two-stage party
primary, beating three other party heavyweights, he is now the
only candidate left as the DPP selects its contender for the
presidency.


Vice President Annette Lu, who was fourth and last in Sunday's
party vote, Monday reversed a previous vow to complete the second
phase.


"Mr. Hsieh visited me last night," she told reporters. "He was
very sincere and we chatted happily. I decided to help him
achieve his goal."


Hsieh will face opposition leader and former Taipei mayor Ma
Ying-jeou, who was nominated Wednesday last week by the
Kuomintang (KMT) party.


The other two DPP challengers -- current Premier Su Tseng-chang
and former party chairman Yu Shyi-kun -- had already withdrawn
late Sunday.


In that vote, Hsieh grabbed 44.66 percent of ballots cast by
party members, against 33.4 percent for Su, 15.78 percent for Yu
and 6.16 percent for Lu.


With Hsieh the sole survivor, the DPP is abandoning the second
phase of the primary, a series of public surveys designed to
establish which candidate has the broadest popular appeal.


Under the party's earlier schedule it will formally announce its
candidate by May 30.


No one else from outside the DPP and Kuomintang has so far
declared their candidacy.


Taiwan's incumbent president is Chen Shui-bian of the DPP, who is
stepping down next year after his second and final four-year
term.


Hsieh, 60, is a former mayor of Kaohsiung, Taiwan's second-
largest city and a traditional DPP stronghold.


Observers say he faces a challenge to heal the rift caused by a
sometimes acrimonious primary campaign, and Chen himself urged
unity as he cast his vote Sunday, warning that mudslinging could
harm the party's chances of retaining the presidency.


Last week a magazine ran an article alleging Hsieh was suspected
of having received hundreds of thousands of US dollars in illegal
political donations as mayor of Kaohsiung.


Hsieh hit back, saying he suspected Su was behind the leak of the
official court document. Su denied that, but said that if Hsieh
wanted the presidency, "his integrity must pass the most
stringent examination of voters."


The four challengers pledged during a press conference Monday to
put the animosity generated during the election campaign behind
them in order to stop the KMT from taking back power.


The DPP ended the KMT's 51-year grip on power when Chen Shui-bian
was elected president in 2000. He was re-elected in 2004.


The Kuomintang's Ma, 56, has also been at the centre of
corruption allegations.


He resigned as the party's chairman in February after he was
indicted for allegedly misusing 11 million Taiwan dollars
(333,000 US) in expense accounts when he was Taipei mayor, which
he denies.


Some KMT lawmakers suspect that Ma's indictment was politically
motivated, questioning why the four DPP figures hoping to run for
president, who had also been investigated for the same
allegations, were not indicted in turn.

