

Oman's withdrawal from struggling airline Gulf Air will leave its
new sole owner Bahrain with an economic burden but will likely
prove positive in the long term, company officials and economists
said on Monday.


The government of Oman announced on Saturday it had withdrawn
from the Bahrain- based airline, leaving the Bahraini government
to deal with the carrier that has been dogged with financial
problems for years.


Its chief executive Andre Dose said last month that the carrier
was losing more than a million dollars a day, and unveiled a plan
to cut its fleet and jobs.


Hisham Abu al-Fateh, the director of Gulf Air's CEO office, said
Oman's withdrawal will take place in stages and that it was still
too soon to say how big a financial hit Bahrain would take.


"It is too early to say how big an extra cost Bahrain will incur
after Oman's withdrawal from the airline," Abu al-Fateh told AFP.
But he added: "I don't think Bahrain buying Oman's stake in the
airline has been suggested."


Founded in 1974, Gulf Air was owned equally by the governments of
Bahrain and Oman, after Qatar and Abu Dhabi withdrew in 2002 and
2005 respectively.


The airline announced last month that its predicted debt to the
end of 2007 would amount to 254 million Bahraini dinars (675
million US dollars).


A senior economist agreed Bahrain was unlikely to buy Oman's
share in the airline. "The Bahraini side views the company as a
loss-maker," the economist told AFP, declining to be named.


"The Omanis have also not paid 25 million Bahraini dinars (138
million US dollars) into the firm that was required of them since
April." he added.


Abdul Rahman al-Qaoud, an official with the civil aviation
department in Bahrain's ministry of transport, said Bahrain would
likely have to meet some economic cost now it owned the airline
outright.


But he said Bahrain would benefit greatly now all the firm's
aircraft were based at its international airport.


"At the moment, 70 percent of Gulf Air flights fly from Bahrain
and this will increase to 100 percent," he told AFP. "I believe
this will be an important move for Bahrain's economy."


Last month, the airline announced a series of measures designed
to improve its lacklustre performance.


Over the next two years, the airline will reduce the number of
its aircraft to 28 from 34 and become an all Airbus fleet.


The aircraft will also undergo a refurbishment programme at a
cost of 190 million Bahraini dinars (505 million US dollars).


Abu al-Fateh said around 1,500 jobs would also be cut. "This
number will include a lot of foreigners who will either not have
their contracts renewed or will choose not to have them renewed,"
he said.

