

Greed and a bungled bluff were blamed Monday for the spectacular
failure of a multi-billion dollar takeover bid for Qantas Airways
as the losing consortium considered making a fresh offer.


The private equity group Airline Partners Australia (APA) said it
might try again after the country's takeover regulator declared
the original 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) bid dead.


"APA is exploring a number of alternatives including the
possibility of making a renewed offer for Qantas at 5.45 dollars
per share" -- the same price as the original offer, the
consortium said.


But confusion still surrounded what is believed to be the world's
largest ever private equity bid for an airline, with Qantas
requesting that trading in its shares be suspended pending an
announcement.


Qantas said securities regulators had requested the halt in
trading because of the possibility that the deal may still be in
play.


That was triggered by a claim from APA that a clause of its offer
to acquire Qantas could mean that the deal may in fact have
garnered the 50 percent support it needed ahead of Friday's
deadline.


Adding to the confusion was a demand by the government that
Qantas clarify its ownership status amid speculation that the
airline may have breached its foreign ownership cap of 49 percent
during the takeover bid.


"Today we have written to Qantas to clarify the exact status of
the share register," said Transport Minister Mark Vaile.


Analysts and Australian media, meanwhile, blamed greed and
brinkmanship by US hedge funds for the apparent failure of the
bid.


"Qantas takeover grounded by greed," The Australian newspaper
said in an editorial, with a front-page analysis headlined "Giant
bluff goes badly wrong, no hedging it."


The Sydney Morning Herald's splash headline read: "Qantas farce:
heads will roll," suggesting Qantas chairwoman Margaret Jackson
-- a strong supporter of the APA bid -- would face pressure to
resign.


The APA offer collapsed late on Friday after it failed to garner
more than 50 percent of shareholder acceptances by a 7:00 pm
(0900 GMT) deadline.


A revival briefly looked possible after a major American
investor, Heyman Investment Associates, suddenly pushed
acceptances to 50.6 percent, just hours after the deadline had
passed.


But those hopes were dashed on Sunday after the Takeovers Panel
refused an appeal to count the late acceptances, a decision the
panel upheld on appeal early Monday.


The Australian described the failure as "a complete world-class
debacle."


"This was all about the giant game of bluff played by
international hedge funds for hundreds of millions of dollars in
hard cash," it said.


The hedge funds had reportedly bet on just enough stock being
delivered to get the bid across the 50 percent barrier.


This would have triggered a two-week extension giving the
consortium a chance to reach the minimum 70 percent acceptances
it needed to succeed -- and allowing the hedge funds to keep
making money on trades.


As the deadline approached and the numbers did not add up,
consortium leader Macquarie Bank called Heyman's chief investment
officer Jim Hoffman repeatedly, the Sydney Morning Herald said.


"It begged him to sell his shares. As the hours wore on and the
deadline drew closer, the bank became more hysterical."


But Hoffman simply did not believe the bid would fail without his
acceptance and suspected Macquarie was trying to get the 70
percent immediately, the newspaper said.


With the deal apparently dead in the water and the share price
expected to drop sharply when trading resumes, the hedge funds
stand to lose heavily.


"This is one of the great fuck-ups of the world," one senior
executive involved in the process was quoted as saying.

