

The people of France, for decades protected by a state-managed
economic cocoon, now face a "rupture" with the past under a new
president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who wants them to work harder,
produce more and take charge of their own lives.


With his convincing defeat of Socialist Segolene Royal, Sarkozy
is seen as having a mandate to sweep away structural constraints
in the French economy that he says have saddled the country with
high unemployment, tepid growth and social discontent.


He has promised a "a clean break" -- even a "rupture" -- with
past practice through tax cuts and no-nonsense work incentives.


The Times of London described Sarkozy's victory in an editorial
as "the most important political change in France for a
generation" and warned French citizens to brace themselves for
"the Gallic equivalent of Thatcherism."


The right-wing former interior minister has vowed to tackle head-
on France's dubious distinction of being, as he says, "the
European country that works the least."


Without scrapping the Socialist-inspired 35-hour work week he
would encourage overtime by exempting extra hours from tax.
Social charges paid by employers, seen as a crippling
disincentive to hire, would also be eliminated for the extra
hours.


By enabling people "to work more to earn more," according to
Sarkozy, consumer spending would rise, galvanizing economic
momentum and making it possible to slash France's 8.3 percrnt
jobless rate, among the highest in the eurozone.


Jobless workers could lose their benefits if they turn down two
consecutive job offers. Employers would have access to a
simplified employment contract that would make it easier for them
to hire and fire.


"His emphasis on the work ethic was crucial," said Hall Gardner,
professor of international relations at the American University
in Paris.


"Working people say they are tired of seeing others take
advantage of the social welfare system. It's an electoral mood
that long since took hold in the US and elsewhere and now has
arrived in France."


But in spite of his preference for the market, Sarkozy has
insisted the public sector under his watch will not be neglected.


There would be massive investment in research and innovation and
a special social security regime established for workers who lose
their jobs.


And he is also seen as having a traditional French "dirigiste"
approach to industrial policy, being prepared to intervene in key
economic sectors and companies when necessary.


In his first victory remarks, he stressed that he wanted a
vigorous role for France in the European Union, but also said
that the French wanted a degree of protection.


He tempered his campaign by saying that the strength of the euro
was a threat to French industry, criticising the way the European
Central Bank functions, and sympathising with a strong public
perception that French companies are increasingly moving
production and employment abroad.


Sarkozy is convinced, as are his Republican Party counterparts in
the United States, that tax cuts will spur growth.


He has promised tax breaks totalling 15 billion euros (20 billion
dollars) and would allow taxpayers to deduct the interest paid on
home loans. There would also be major reductions in the
inheritance tax.


Sarkozy will take office later this month at a time when the
French economy has begun to show signs of life.


Finance Minister Thierry Breton said on Monday that the economy
had out- performed targets in the first two quarters, with growth
forecasts for the period revised upwards to 2.5 to 3.0 percent
from 2.0 to 2.5 percent.


In Brussels the European Commission likewise upgraded its
projection for French expansion this year to 2.4 from 2.2
percent.


Sarkozy's principal challenge will be to deliver the fruits of
such growth to French workers struggling to exist on the minimum
wage, which is estimated to come to a net 984 euros (1,338
dollars) per month.


In her campaign Royal, in sharp contrast to Sarkozy's right-wing
solutions, had pledged to expand state protection, create 500,000
jobs and increase the minimum wage over five years.


As finance minister in 2004 Sarkozy signalled his economic
sympathies by commissioning a committee of experts -- headed by
former IMF managing director Michel Camdessus -- to assess what
must be done if France is to shake off its economic doldrums.


The panel in essence said the country had to work harder, rein in
"excessive" public sector spending and encourage technological
innovation, remedies Sarkozy enthusiastically endorsed.

