

Ismailia of Egypt upset Wydad Casablanca of Morocco 1-0 at the
weekend in a clash of African football heavyweights.


Omar Gamal scored after 13 minutes in the Moroccan commercial
capital to settle the top billing of a seven-match African
Confederation Cup fourth  round, first leg programme.


Wydad and Ismailia are former African champions and whoever
emerges victorious after the mid-May return match in Egypt will
be installed as favourites to win the second-tier continental
competition.


Hakim Ajraoui wasted a chance to put 1992 African Champions Cup
winners Wydad ahead at the 80,000-seat Mohamed V Stadium before
Gamal delivered the decisive blow.


Abandoning their trademark short, sharp passing, Ismailia thumped
the ball goalward and Gamal snatched his fourth goal in five
matches with a shot that was deflected past the Moroccan
goalkeeper.


Although weakened by the absence of first-choice players Mohamed
Abdulwahed and Amr Samir, Ismailia were the more creative team
and squandered several chances to increase their lead.


Dolphin of Nigeria, runners-up to FAR Rabat of Morocco in the
2005 African Confederation Cup, were the other visitors to
triumph after beating Maranatha Fiokpo of Togo 2-1 in Wome.


Bila Bello was the Nigerian hero, scoring an early goal and
hitting the 31st- minute winner after Allassani Daouda equalised
in a town 130 kilometres north of the capital, Lome.


The other Nigerian challengers for a 400,000-dollar first prize,
Nasarawa United and Kwara United, drew 1-1 in the central city of
Lafia with an early Felix Obada goal for Kwara cancelled out by
Emmanuel Onuh just before half-time.


Al-Merreikh of Sudan seem set to atone for fourth-round failure
last year after forcing a 0-0 draw with Young Africans of
Tanzania in the lakeside town of Mwanza.


Young Africans came closest to breaking the deadlock soon after
half-time when a Mrisho Ngasa free kick rebounded off the
crossbar while Nigeria-born  Endurance Idahor squandered a late
chance for Merreikh.


Tresor Mputu confirmed his reputation as the deadliest club
striker in Africa this year by scoring the only goal as Tout
Puissant Mazembe Englebert of Democratic Republic of Congo edged
Mwana Africa of Zimbabwe 1-0 in Kinshasa.


Mputu struck after 16 minutes for a club forced to stage home
matches thousands of kilometres from home because their
Lubumbashi ground was barred after repeated violence against
visitors and the poor state of the pitch.


The matchwinner scored nine goals in the African Champions League
before Mazembe were eliminated in the final qualifying round last
month and  downgraded to the African Confederation Cup.


Marcellin Gaha snatched a last-minute winner as Cotonsport Garoua
of Cameroon came from behind to defeat 2006 African Champions
League     runners-up Club Sportif Sfaxien of Tunisia 2-1 in
Garoua.


Karim Ben Amar gave the North Africans a 75th-minute lead which
was cancelled out by Kanilou Daouda just 60 seconds later to set
up a thrilling   climax at Omnisports Stadium.


The other Tunisian contenders, Gaouafel Gafsa suffered a similar
fate, losing 2-1 to Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa after
taking a second-minute lead in the northern city of Polokwane.


Ahmed Khanchil scored with a close-range shot that slipped under
the body of goalkeeper Brian Baloyi but the slow-settling
Sundowns equalised through Lerato Chabangu close to half-time.


Veteran, dreadlocked midfielder Godfrey Sapula grabbed the 57th-
minute winner, rifling a low drive across goalkeeper Anis Zitouni
into the far   corner of the net.


Etoile of Congo host Astres Douala of Cameroon on Saturday in the
remaining first leg fixture and the eight return matches will be
played over the weekend of May 18-20.

