

Alcoa said Monday it was launching a hostile bid of 33 billion
dollars for Canadian rival Alcan, saying the acquisition would
create the world's biggest aluminum company.


The bid, if successful, would forge a behemoth with 54 billion
dollars in revenues, 190,000 employees and a big global footprint
with operations in Europe, North America, Asia, Australia and
elsewhere, and a "top five" global metals firm, Alcoa said.


"This is truly a winning strategic combination," said Alain
Belda, chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, in a conference
call after unveiling the bid.


Belda said Alcoa and Alcan were "two companies that belong
together," and that a combination would lead to "a stronger
future for both."


He said the merger would bring "a profit scale and cost structure
to compete in a changing global environment."


Alcoa, the world's second-largest aluminum company, said it was
offering 73.25 US dollars per share for Alcan, a 32 percent
premium to Alcan's closing price on Friday. The offer is
comprised of 80 percent cash and 20 percent stock.


The offer comes amid a global boom in commodities and surging
demand for aluminum and related products, especially in Asia.


"The transaction will create a premier diversified global
aluminum company, with a complementary portfolio of assets and
enhanced growth opportunities, and better position the combined
company to build value for shareholders," said Alcoa, which
operates in 44 countries.


Belda said the offer was made after nearly two years of
discussions between the two firms on a tie-up that had failed.


"We are very disappointed that those efforts did not result in a
negotiated transaction -- a conclusion we would have strongly
preferred," he said.


"We believe firmly in the compelling strategic rationale behind
the combination of Alcoa and Alcan ... We are therefore taking
our offer directly to Alcan shareholders."


The offer was to be launched to Alcan shareholders starting
Tuesday and expire July 10, Alcoa said.


There was no immediate response to the offer from Alcan, which
has operations in 61 countries.


The US firm said a combined company would also have increased
financial resources for environmental initiatives such as curbing
greenhouse-gas emissions.


Alcan acquired French aluminum maker Pechiney in late 2004,
creating at the time the biggest packaging and the second-biggest
aluminum group in the world, behind Alcoa.


Alcoa's number-one spot was eclipsed by a merger in March of
Russian aluminum producers Rusal and Sual with Switzerland's
Glencore.


Belda said in a letter to Alcan president and CEO Richard Evans
that the merger could generate some one billion dollars in cost
savings while providing more cash for research and development.


He said that if a merger is completed, the group would maintain
dual headquarters in Montreal and New York, and have strategic
corporate leaders in both cities.


He pledged to locate the primary metals research and development
unit in Quebec, and another pilot project in the province.


"I do not believe any other company can make such a significant
commitment to Montreal, Canada and Quebec," he said in the
letter.


The deal is subject to review by antitrust authorities in the US,
Canada, the European Union, Australia and Brazil. It also
requires foreign investment clearance in Canada, France and
Australia.


Belda said he was confident the combination would win regulatory
approval and that Alcoa was prepared to divest certain assets to
satisfy antitrust concerns, citing the Alcan packaging operations
as one likely unit to be divested.

