

Pakistan's Supreme Court on Monday suspended a judicial inquiry
into misconduct charges against the country's top judge that
triggered weeks of nationwide protests.


The court ordered the suspension as it took up a petition from
Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry challenging his sacking,
a decision likely to embarrass President Pervez Musharraf's
government.


Musharraf suspended Chaudhry on March 9 on allegations of
misconduct and abuse of authority, sparking a wave of massive
protests by opposition parties and lawyers who branded it an
attack on the independence of the judiciary.


The misconduct allegations were being investigated by the Supreme
Judicial Council (SJC), a panel of five senior judges, but
Chaudhry argued that it was not competent to try him.


"The SJC proceedings have been stayed," Tariq Mehmud, a lawyer
for Chaudhry, told AFP after the hearing.


Mehmud said the Supreme Court had demanded that Chaudhry's case
should be heard by a full court comprising all of its judges.


"The SJC would not hear the case until Supreme Court decides the
petition of chief justice," Chaudhry's main lawyer Aitzaz Ahsan
said.


"The court's order shows that the proceedings so far of the
Supreme Judicial Council were unconstitutional," he added.


In a 132-point petition the chief justice also challenged the
composition of the council, the decision to send him on forced
leave, and the misconduct charges, Ahsan said.


The SJC had been scheduled to resume its proceedings on
Wednesday.


Government lawyers said the decision showed the judiciary was
independent.


"I am not unhappy over the order," Malik Mohammad Qayyum, a
senior lawyer representing the government, told reporters.


"We are saying from the beginning that judges are independent and
let them decide the case," Qayyum said.


Asked if the government would appeal against the suspension
order, he said there could not be an appeal against an interim
order and added that when a full court assembled, it could decide
the matter.


Lawyers' groups hailed the decision, handing out sweets and
announcing a nationwide "day of thanks" on Wednesday.


"We will fully celebrate the decision and observe a day of thanks
at bar councils all over Pakistan," president of Supreme Court
Bar Association Munir A. Malik told AFP.


The decision comes in the wake of a judicial crisis that poses
one of the most serious threats to the eight-year rule of
Musharraf, an army general who seized power in a bloodless coup
in 1999.


Opposition parties and lawyers have staged anti-Musharraf
protests on each of Chaudhry's eight appearances before the
council in the past two months.


A massive rally was held in the eastern city of Lahore on Sunday
where Chaudhry told tens of thousands of cheering supporters that
the "era of dictatorship is over."


Opponents accuse Musharraf of sacking Chaudhry illegally in an
attempt to weaken the judiciary to make it easier for him to
remain in charge of the army after 2007, when he should give up
the position.


Musharraf is also expected to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due to
be held late this year or in early 2008 -- a move that could
spark other legal challenges.

