

The European Commission lifted on Monday its 2007 growth estimate
for the 13 nations sharing the euro to 2.6 percent from a
February forecast of 2.4 percent on expectations of strong German
performance.


The forecast means that the eurozone, long the laggard of major
economic powers, would be the fastest growing economy in the
developed world, with the US growth estimated at 2.2 percent and
Japan at 2.3 percent.


It would also mark only a marginal slowdown from 2006, when the
eurozone grew 2.7 percent -- its fastest pace of growth since the
peak of the dot.com bubble at the turn of the decade.


The European Union's executive arm estimated in its semiannual
update of its official economic forecasts that the broader EU
economy would grow even more quickly this year than in the
eurozone.


It estimated that the 27-nation economy would expand 2.9 percent,
raising its projection from a forecast of 2.7 percent in
February.


Sharply stronger-than-expected growth in Germany boosted the
overall outlook with Europe's biggest economy forecast to grow
2.5 percent this year, up from a previous forecast of 1.8
percent.


The Commission forecast that growth would ease only slightly to
2.5 percent in the eurozone and 2.7 percent in the EU.


"The European Union and the euro area remain on a brisk growth
path that should reduce the unemployment rate and the average
public deficit further to levels not seen in a long time," said
EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin Almunia.


The broad-based economic recovery underway in Europe has helped
drive down unemployment rates which have long been a major
headache for European politicians.


The Commission predicted that the eurozone would see six million
new jobs created between 2006 and 2008 and that the unemployment
rate would fall from 7.3 percent this year to 6.9 percent in
2008.


The strong economic growth outlook was expected to ease the
strain on government coffers in the eurozone, where members are
bound by EU rules to keep their deficits to less than 3.0 percent
of output or face fines.


The Commission, which has the job of policing public finances in
the EU, forecast that average public deficit levels would fall
this year to 1.0 percent, with only Portugal over 3.0 percent
with a deficit of 3.5 percent.


Meanwhile, eurozone inflation was forecast to fall to 1.9 percent
in 2007 and 2008 from 2.2 percent in 2006, putting price growth
spot on the European Central Bank's preferred level of less than
but close to 2.0 percent.


The Commission said that growth could turn out even stronger than
expected if falling unemployment levels lifted consumer
confidence and in turn boosted broader domestic demand.


But it also warned that there were risks to the outlook,
especially if a slowdown underway in the United States proved to
be greater than expected and if oil prices spiked higher.

