

German President Horst Koehler on Monday rejected a plea from a
leader of the notorious Red Army Faction guerrilla group to be
released from jail after 24 years behind bars.


"The president has refrained from issuing clemency to Christian
Klar," Koehler's office said.


Klar, 54, was jailed in 1983 for multiple murders, including the
assassination of federal prosecutor Siegfried Buback.


Buback became the first victim of a bloody period dubbed the
"German Autumn" when he was shot in his Mercedes car by RAF
gunmen on a motorcycle in the southwestern city of Karlsruhe in
1977.


Buback's son Michael told a German newspaper recently that he had
reliable information from those connected to the now-disbanded
group that Klar was not involved in the murder of his father.


The RAF, also known as the Baader-Meinhof Gang after its original
leaders Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof, mounted a violent
campaign against what it considered was the oppressive capitalist
state of West Germany from 1977 to 1982.


It targeted the German elite and the US military based in West
Germany and is suspected of killing 34 people. The group
officially disbanded in 1998.


Brigitte Mohnhaupt, who led the RAF with Klar after the group's
original leaders committed suicide in jail, was released from
prison in March after serving 24 years for her role in nine
murders, including Buback's.


Justice authorities said she no longer posed a threat to society.


Her release and Klar's plea for clemency prompted Germany to
revisit a painful chapter of its history and there was much
outrage over the fact that neither RAF leader ever expressed
remorse over the killings.


Most of Germany main political parties on Monday said they
respected Koehler's decision to deny Klar clemency.


The secretary general of the Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian
Democrats, Ronald Pofalla, personally welcomed the move, as did
the leader of the opposition Free Democrats (FDP).


"He took a wise decision. When a repeat offender shows no remorse
he should expect no mercy," FDP chairman Guido Westerwelle told
reporters.


The Social Democrats, who form part of the governing coalition,
said Klar's request had been "cheeky." The Greens however had
favoured clemency for the former RAF leader.


Klar's sentence determines that he may be released at the
earliest after serving 26 years in jail. That period expires in
January 2009.


He caused a stir in January when he called for "the total defeat
of the capitalists' aims" in a speech read out on his behalf at a
Marxist conference in Berlin.


The remarks were taken by justice authorities as a sign that he
had not changed in prison and an application he had made for day
releases from jail was subsequently turned down.

