

Turkish prosecutors sought heavy prison terms for 18 people over
the murder of an ethnic Armenian journalist which they said was
the work of a terrorist organization, the Anatolia news agency
reported Monday.


The trial is expected to start on July 2, the semi-official
agency said.


Hrant Dink's murder on January 19 raised alarm about rising
nationalism and hostility against minorities in Turkey. The
journalist's funeral turned into a huge demonstration as some
100,000 people marched behind his coffin, calling for tolerance
and reconciliation with Armenia.


The indictment calls for life sentences for two alleged
ringleaders who instigated the killing in which Dink, 52, was
gunned down outside the offices of his Turkish-Armenian weekly
Agos in Istanbul.


One of them, university student Erhan Tuncel, also faces an
additional prison term between 22.5 and 48 years on other charges
including being a leader of a terrorist organization.


The indictment calls for an additional sentence of 18 to 30 years
in jail for the second man, Yasin Hayal, on other charges
including being a leader of a terrorist organisation.


Hayal is believed to have provided the money and gun used in the
murder.


The two prosecutors demanded a prison term between 18 and 24
years for Ogun Samast, a 17-year-old jobless secondary school
graduate who confessed to shooting Dink.


Samast also faces an additional prison term of between 8.5 to 18
years for being a member of a terrorist organization and carrying
an unlicensed gun.


The indictment calls for prison terms between 7.5 and 35 years
for the remaining 15 suspects for helping in the murder.


The prosecutors considered the group as a terrorist organisation,
which aggravates the sentences sought for the crime.


Most of the suspects are from the Black Sea city of Trabzon -- a
bastion of nationalism -- and are believed to have targeted Dink
for his views on the World War I killings of Armenians under
Ottoman rule.


Dink described the 1915-1918 killings as genocide, a label that
Turkey, the Ottoman Empire's successor, categorically rejects.


Nationalists branded him a traitor after he was given a suspended
six-month jail sentence last year for "insulting Turkishness".


One of the charges brought against Hayal was related to him
threatening Turkish Nobel-winning novelist Orhan Pamuk, who was
also charged over remarks about the Armenian massacres, but
escaped trial thanks to a technicality.


Dink, one of the most prominent members of Turkey's tiny Armenian
minority, was widely respected as a sincere campaigner for
reconciling Turkey and Armenia, which have failed to establish
diplomatic ties over the genocide dispute.

