

Top central bankers agreed on Monday that the world economy was
continuing to grow at a strong and "very encouraging" pace,
European Central Bank chief Jean- Claude Trichet said.


Trichet said after a regular meeting of the G10 group of central
bankers here that financial markets had confirmed their
resilience by absorbing recent turbulence.


"We confirm that global growth is very encouraging, we are fully
in line with what we have expressed at the last IMF meeting and
the last meeting here in Basel," he told journalists at the Bank
for International Settlements.


The European Central Bank chief and current chairman of the G10
said there was "confirmation of a very strong growth at a global
level in volume."


In response to questioning about a slowdown in growth in the
United States, Trichet underlined that the pattern of global
economic growth was more balanced than before.


The ECB reiterated warnings about downside risks including oil
and commodity prices following volatility in those markets in
recent years.


"Let's continue to be fully aware about the risks," Trichet said,
warning against complacency, especially over the risk of
inflation.


"Price stability is necessary for a global growth," Trichet
underlined.


Trichet said there was no discussion during the G10 meeting of
the outcome of the elections in France.


However, he noted "with satisfaction" that President-elect
Nicolas Sarkozy had not called for changes to "the EMU (European
Monetary Union) treaty".


During the election campaign last month, Sarkozy called for a
Europe-wide "diplomatic offensive" to put pressure on the
European Central Bank, which he blamed for the strong euro.


Sarkozy had described the strength of the euro as an
"inconvenience" that was "hobbling the competitiveness of exports
outside the eurozone" and warned that the bank was "not
accountable to anyone."


The independence of the ECB's decision-making on EU monetary
affairs is enshrined in the European Union's 1992 "Maastricht"
treaty.


The treaty expressly rules out any attempts by government to
influence the ECB or national central banks.


G10 central bankers staunchly defend the notion of their
independence.

