

European Union leaders hope French president-elect Nicolas
Sarkozy will reassert France's role as a driving force for EU
integration and help the bloc quickly resolve its institutional
woes.


But much will depend on his willingness to work with his EU
partners, in particular Germany -- together with France
considered Europe's main "motor" -- and on a deft approach to
Turkey's membership hopes, experts said Monday.


"I have complete confidence in Nicolas Sarkozy... to play a
driving role in resolving the institutional question and
consolidating European politics," European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso said after Sunday's election result.


But Goeran Von Sydow, researcher at the Swedish Institute for
European Policy Studies, suggested that EU leaders would be
cautious in their approach to the right-wing head of state in
waiting.


"He is a committed European but he has also been Brussels-bashing
during the campaign and criticized some aspects," he said. "This
is something that politicians might be suspicious about."


On the face of it, Sarkozy almost perfectly fits the EU's bill
for drawing up a new treaty of badly needed reforms by 2009, so
that the problem does not undermine the next European elections
that year.


The need for one springs from referendums in France and the
Netherlands two years ago, when voters rejected the EU's reform-
filled constitution and sent the bloc spiralling into its worst
crisis.


Sarkozy has promoted a "mini-treaty" using the most practical
parts of that document -- so it would be relatively easy to
assemble -- and better yet, parliament will ratify the text, no
more referendums.


"The first test will be the constitutional treaty," said Jo
Leinen, German Social Democrat MEP and chairman of the European
Parliament's constitutional affairs committee.


"Will France be capable of returning to the 'yes' camp and work
on a solution that respects the 'yeses' given by the 18 countries
which have already ratified it?"


Solving the problem will mean close cooperation with Germany,
which holds the EU's rotating presidency until the end of June
and plans next month to table a "roadmap" leading out of the
malaise.


Chancellor Angela Merkel, a conservative like Sarkozy, said that
he was taking power at a decisive period for Europe and "it is
important to continue the close, trusting and intensive
cooperation between Germany and France."


But Germany is also worried about his intention to boost France's
ties with the United States, barely recovering from differences
over the war in Iraq.


"Its European partners better prepare for a president who will
put France's interests above all others and who accords no
importance to European political doctrine," the Frankfurther
Allgemeine Zeitung commented Monday.


"Contact with France will not be simple in the future."


Attention will also focus on Turkey's EU aspirations and
Sarkozy's clearly stated opposition to the mainly Muslim country
joining.


Turkey's membership talks, which began in October 2005, have
crawled along amid a trade row over Cyprus and the process is
expected to take at least a decade, with no guarantee that Ankara
will even be invited in.


Many fear that Turkey, which has undertaken vast reforms in its
quest to join, could take a strong Islamist turn if it is
rejected.


"His position on Turkey does not correspond with the accords and
the engagements that have been undertaken," Leinen warned. "He is
in danger of cutting the Union into two camps."


"A negative signal to Turkey could send this country off into
chaos and help the Islamists take over the country and kill off
hopes for democracy," he said.


Indeed in welcoming Sarkozy aboard overnight, Barroso's only
negative note was to remind him of the policy to only take a
position on whether Ankara should join once the negotiations are
over.

