

A UN non-proliferation conference failed to break a deadlock
Monday as the Iranian ambassador awaited instructions from Tehran
on whether to accept a compromise over the issue of compliance.


Ali Asghar Soltanieh said "he had consulted with his government
and an answer will come tomorrow (Tuesday)" to a South African
proposal to adopt a text to ease Iran's fears of being the target
of a call for compliance with the Non- Proliferation Treaty, a
non-aligned diplomat told AFP.


The two-week meeting has been blocked since opening a week ago as
Iran, which the United States charges is secretly developing the
atomic bomb, is stopping consensus on an agenda item that calls
for "full compliance" with the NPT, the basic agreement for the
fight against the spread of nuclear weapons.


A European diplomat said however that Iran was using this excuse
"to play with the whole conference."


And William Potter, a US analyst who is also a delegate here,
said the procedural issues Iran has raised were "death by 2,000
tiny blows" to the conference of 130 states from the 189-nation
NPT.


"Iran has problems already at the IAEA (the UN nuclear watchdog
which has cited Tehran for non-compliance with the NPT) and the
UN Security Council (which has imposed sanctions on Iran for
enriching uranium) and they are not anxious to add to that list,"
Potter said.


"Iran does not want to see this body on record in any fashion
condemning Iran's non-compliance," Potter said.


The conference is the first of a series preparing for a 2010
review conference on amendments to the NPT, which many feel needs
to be reinforced in order to handle the nuclear crises in Iran
and North Korea.


The stand-off here, with debate blocked, is the worst at any NPT
meeting since the treaty went into effect in 1970, diplomats
said.


Conference chairman Yukiya Amano had tried Friday to assure Iran
that it was not the object of the agenda item calling for full
compliance with the pact. Amano refuses to change the agenda,
saying it was already a delicate compromise.


A collapse in the conference Friday was avoided when non-aligned
state South Africa proposed the adoption of an explanatory text
saying that disarmament as well as compliance with NPT rules
against diverting peaceful nuclear uses to military ends would be
discussed.


Amano said he had held consultations over the weekend and the
"outcome is that more time is needed to address this issue
again."


He said that if substantive discussion continued to be blocked
the conference would move on to set the date and place of the
next preparatory meeting, to be held in 2008.


Western diplomats said Iran wanted to avoid any decisive
recommendations being reached in a chairman's summary that would
follow a debate on specific issues.


Iran feels it is being singled out as it is currently defying UN
Security Council calls for Tehran to rein in its nuclear
ambitions, and is in fact expanding its program despite sanctions
from the Council.


Soltanieh argues that emphasising compliance with all NPT
provisions would push states possessing nuclear weapons to keep
their promises on disarmament, rather than having the meeting
just criticize Iran over violations of the treaty's nuclear
safeguards.


Iran is isolated as most non-aligned states and Western powers
accept the agenda. Only Syria and Venezuela back Iran's
objections to the agenda.

