

Sir Alex Ferguson has claimed that Manchester United have
overcome their toughest-ever opponents by dethroning Chelsea to
seal the club's ninth Premiership title in 15 years.


United were confirmed as champions on Sunday after Chelsea's
failure to beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium left Ferguson's
team with an unassailable seven- point lead at the top of the
Premiership.


Having seen Chelsea, bank-rolled by the billions of Roman
Abramovich, race to the last two titles, Ferguson admitted that
the London club have at times appeared unbeatable due to their
vast financial resources.


But he claims that the toughest challenge was overcoming the
resilience and fighting spirit of Jose Mourinho's expensively
assembled team.


Ferguson said: "It's a terrific achievement to win the
Premiership because it has taken 90 points to do that over the
last two or three seasons. That is a hell of a total to go at.


"Nobody has really lived with Chelsea over the last couple of
years, so at the start of the season I knew we would have to stay
with them all the way this time. But we have done better than
that because we have been ahead of them for such a long time,


"But I have to say that Chelsea are the most resilient team we
have come up against in a race for the title. They never give in
and I thought they were unbelievable in the final 15 minutes at
Arsenal on Sunday. They looked like they were going to score
because they are a very resilient team.


"When they signed Andriy Shevchenko and Michael Ballack last
summer, I felt those players were bought to win the them the
Champions League and I was hoping they would concentrate on that.


"But they have competed on four fronts right until the very end
and that just shows the huge strength in depth that they have."


Ferguson is ready to rest several key players for the trip to
Stamford Bridge on Wednesday in order to save them for the final
day game against West Ham -- a crucial fixture in terms of the
outcome of the relegation battle.


The United boss admitted that his players have 'given their lot'
and that fatigue has become a major issue, hence his decision to
rest leading players against Chelsea.


Cristiano Ronaldo is expected to be involved, however, despite
being targeted for rough treatment during the 1-0 weekend victory
at Manchester City when he was cynically stamped on by City
defender Michael Ball.


Ball is facing an FA investigation and Ferguson admits that
Ronaldo's reaction to the foul play highlights his quality and
ranking as one of the world's great players.


He said: "I couldn't believe the stamp when I saw it, especially
as it happened in the first minute of the game. I don't know if
Ball was acting on instructions or whether he was hyped up, but
it was the sort of challenge you don't see anymore.


"It was incredible, the kind of thing you saw in the 1960's. You
saw all sorts of vicious tackles, but Ronaldo has great courage
and he reminds me of the Celtic great Jimmy Johnstone. He got
kicked and just got up, got the ball and said 'I'll show you.'


"It's a quality all the great players have had. Pele, Cruyff,
Eusebio, Best -- they all had it and Ronaldo is exactly the
same."

