

Leaders in Asia and the Pacific on Monday welcomed the election
of right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy as the new president of France
and expressed confidence in his ability to lead the country.


Despite the fact that Sarkozy has been sharply critical of Japan
in the past, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe offered hearty
congratulations and praise for the new 52-year-old president.


"In a spirit of building a new era of the Japan-France
relationship, I want us to join together in our efforts," said
Abe, who met Sarkozy in January on a visit to France.


"I sensed his strong determination to make France a better
country," Abe said.


In criticism in 2004 aimed at outgoing French President Jacques
Chirac, who was a frequent visitor to Japan, Sarkozy ridiculed
the traditional sport of sumo wrestling and was dismissive of the
cities of Kyoto and Tokyo.


"Hong Kong is a magical city but Tokyo is not," Sarzkoy said,
calling the Japanese capital "suffocating."


Chirac was also seen as a close friend of China, which also
welcomed Sarkozy's election.


"China will work to promote the development of bilateral
relations from a strategic and long-term perspective, and through
joint efforts, in order to turn a new page of friendly relations
and all-round cooperation," Chinese President Hu Jintao said.


Hu said ties with France "have become a fine example of mutual
respect and friendly coexistence between countries with different
historical backgrounds, cultural traditions as well as countries
at different development stages."


In Australia, Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he felt that
the conservative Sarkozy would be a good leader for France.


"I have met Nicolas Sarkozy from time to time and I think he'll
make a fine president," Downer said through a spokesman.


Sarkozy, a tough former interior minister and son of a Hungarian
immigrant, trounced his Socialist rival Segolene Royal, taking 53
percent of the vote against Royal's 47 percent, according to
official results.


The outcome sparked violence in Paris and other cities across
France, as riot squads fired tear gas at anti-Sarkozy protestors
who hurled stones, bottles and even acid at police.

