

Three European banks revealed on Monday that Dutch group ABN Amro
had rejected a formal offer for its US arm at the weekend, part
of a mooted record 71-billion- euro counter attack against
Britain's Barclays.


The European banking trio said that they had offered by far the
higher price for the US business LaSalle bank.


The three banks, Royal Bank of Scotland, Belgian-Dutch group
Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain, said in a statement issued
by Fortis that they had "no further comment at this time",
apparently leaving open the options of either a new assault, or
withdrawal over the LaSalle obstacle.


At stake is the creation of the biggest banking sector acqusition
in history, the creation of the second-biggest bank in Europe and
the fifth biggest in the world.


The trio had already outlined terms for the whole ABN group
valuing it at about 72 billion euros.


Following the news, ABN Amro's share price fell by 2.43 percent
to 35.81 euros on the Amsterdam stock exchange.


ABN Amro said on Monday that the latest approach valued LaSalle
at 24.5 billion dollars, and the entire group at about 71 billion
euros, at a price of 38.40 euros per share.


The trio had made clear earlier that they wanted ownership of
LaSalle. But ABN has arranged to sell this US business to Bank of
America for about 22 billion dollars. That sale is part of an
agreed takeover bid by Barclays on April 22, worth 67 billion
euros at the time at 36.25 euros per share.


In their statement, the consortium said that their offer for
LaSalle at the weekend was "materially greater" than the price
arranged with Bank of America. However, ABN Amro denied this.


Analysts say that Barclays wants all of ABN Amro, after disposal
of LaSalle, in order to create a vast global banking group, but
that the trio want to break up ABN Amro, including LaSalle,
between them.


The counter approaches by the consortium opened the prospect of a
titanic battle for consolidation of European banking and was also
a show of aggressive intentions by European banks to expand,
notably in developing and emerging economies.


In any case, the amounts offered set new records in the history
of global bank takeover battles.


The LaSalle bank is a key piece in this battlefield. Of the three
members of the consortium, RBS has made clear that it wants to
gain control of the US business.


The arrangement for LaSalle to be sold to Bank of America was
seen as a move to defeat such a counter offer against the agreed
deal with Barclays.


ABN Amro made clear in its statement that the consortium had made
its offer for LaSalle conditional on the success of its eventual
bid for all of ABN Amro.


The consortium had explicity refused to lift this condition
despite several requests by ABN Amro, the Dutch bank said.


On Thursday a court in Amsterdam ordered ABN Amro to put the sale
of LaSalle bank to a vote of its shareholders, and froze any
further steps towards disposal of the US business to Bank of
America.

