

France's next president Nicolas Sarkozy has been compared to
Britain's Margaret Thatcher, but the jury was still out Monday as
to whether he will follow the lead of the "Iron Lady" and
confront the country's powerful trade unions head- on.


"The parallel is pertinent," said Rene Mouriaux, a political
scientist specialising in unions. But he added that "Sarkozy will
try to have the hand of Margaret Thatcher in (a) velvet glove."


The Times of London described Sarkozy's election victory on
Sunday in an editorial as "the most important political change in
France for a generation" and warned French citizens to brace
themselves for "the Gallic equivalent of Thatcherism."


Previous French governments of both left and right have tried to
introduce economic reforms, but have repeatedly been forced to
back down in the face of massive union-led street protests.


But with his convincing defeat of Socialist Segolene Royal,
Sarkozy is now seen as having a mandate to sweep away structural
constraints in the French economy that he says have saddled the
country with high unemployment, tepid growth and social
discontent.


Unions have been warning of an attack on "basic liberties" if
Sarkozy goes ahead as promised with a law on a minimum service
during strikes.


But, said Mouriaux, "it's obvious that the system (in Britain and
France) is not the same. In Britain there was a single union
representative body, which Mrs Thatcher, by way of the miners'
strike, systematically tried to split."


"In France there is a culture of confrontation which is much
stronger than in Britain.... That leads to a certain art of
compromise. Mrs Thatcher was very absolutist, while we saw on
Sunday night Mr Sarkozy say that he will take into account all
people."


Sarkozy, standard-bearer of the centre-right UMP, said during his
campaign he would confront head-on France's dubious distinction
of being "the European country that works the least."


But many commentators have said he will only tinker at the edges
of France's state-centred social model.


"There is an idea doing the rounds that Sarkozy is a kind of
French Margaret Thatcher," British historian Robert Tombs, a
specialist in French-British relations, said last week.


"But I don't think such a creature exists. Not least because no-
one in France wants a French Thatcher."


"If you contrast the positions of France today and Britain in the
late 1970s, it's clear that even though there is certainly a
sense of crisis in France, it is nothing like as severe as what
Britain was going through when Mrs Thatcher was elected in 1979,"
he told AFP.&lt;

