

Japan and India agreed Monday to seek change to a recent World
Trade Organisation proposal on farm trade because it "lacked
balance," Japanese officials said.


The agreement was reached in a telephone conversation between
Japanese Agriculture Minister Toshikatsu Matsuoka and Indian
Minister of Commerce and Industry Kamal Nath, the officials said.


The proposal last week by Crawford Falconer, the chairman of the
WTO's special committee on agriculture, said in part that the
number of "sensitive" products that would be excluded from
drastic tariff cuts should be limited to no more than five
percent of the total.


Rice in Japan belongs to the sensitive category.


The two ministers agreed that the proposal "lacked balance" in
that it was tough on certain WTO members, the officials said.


Matsuoka told Nath that the proposal presented tough terms on
which Japan was to liberalise farm trade while it offered
relatively soft terms to the United States for slashing its farm
subsidies, according to the officials.


He was quoted as proposing to Nath that they "continue acting
together on the matter."


Nath said India was prepared to issue a statement in WTO talks
that the proposal was unfair for developing nations and
unbalanced, the officials said.


As for the percentage of farm trade items exempted from drastic
tariff cuts, Japan wants a level of between 10 and 15 percent,
while the United States wants no more than one percent and the
European Union hopes for eight percent.


On the other hand, Falconer called on the United States to cut
trade distorting domestic support to below 19 billion dollars per
year in an attempt to revitalise moribund world trade
liberalisation talks.


Agriculture has been a key stumbling block in the WTO's Doha
round of trade negotiations, which were launched in the Qatari
capital in 2001.


The US and EU have engaged in bitter arguments over the subject,
with Brussels demanding more reductions in US farm subsidies and
Washington insisting that proposed European tariff cuts do not go
far enough.

