

Incoming French president Nicolas Sarkozy is unlikely to revamp
France's tried- and-tested policy on Asia but may shift the
emphasis from Japan to China, analysts said Monday a day after
his election.


They said France recognised Asia's growing importance, and that
Sarkozy -- once installed in the Elysee Palace -- would have to
pay increasing attention to the region.


An indication of his diplomatic priorities will emerge at the G8
summit of leading world economies in Germany next month, said
Hidekazu Kawai, honorary professor of international politics at
Tokyo's Gakushuin University.


"A key to his Asian diplomacy will be China. His Chinese
diplomacy will set the tone of his entire Asian diplomacy," he
said.


"Japan may lose the cosy ties with France it long enjoyed under
Chirac, who is personally very much interested in Japan," he
added, referring to outgoing French President Jacques Chirac.


However, "a dramatic turnaround in France's Asian diplomacy is
unlikely," Kawai said.


"As a key member of the European Union, France will continue to
have a strong interest in the region. Asia, which is engaged in a
large part of the world economy, cannot be ignored any more."


Sarkozy, a tough former interior minister and son of a Hungarian
immigrant, trounced his Socialist rival Segolene Royal in
Sunday's run-off vote.


As president, he will inherit good ties with China from Chirac,
who made relations with Beijing a high priority.


Although the French presidential campaign was focused largely on
domestic issues, giving analysts few clues about the candidates'
thinking on diplomacy, few doubt China will feature high on the
diplomatic agenda.


Sarkozy will face tricky issues such as trade, human rights and a
European Union arms embargo in place since the 1989 Tiananmen
massacre which France has said it wants lifted.


"It makes sense for any country to pay attention to China,"
agreed T.C.A Rangachary, a former Indian ambassador to France.


"France and China have many things in common, both are members of
the UN Security Council, and trade is doing well," he added.


"But that in no way diminishes French relations with India. I see
the India- France relationship progressing very well. There is no
reason to suggest a change in relations when it serves the
interest of both countries."


Analysts do not feel the same about Franco-Japan ties however,
pointing to past Sarkozy comments.


In 2004 he reportedly made disparaging remarks about sumo and the
ancient Japanese capital of Kyoto, which Chirac often visited,
asking how anyone could be fascinated "by these battles between
fat guys with slicked-down ponytails?" and saying that "sumo
wrestling is really not a sport for intellectuals."


While Japan downplayed Sarkozy's remarks, many believe he will
not pursue relations with Tokyo as actively as Chirac did.


"Japan cannot expect Sarkozy to be as pro-Japan as Chirac and the
relationship will be somewhat businesslike," said Chihaya Kokubo,
a researcher at the Japan Institute of International Affairs.


The trilateral relationship between the European Union, Asia and
the United States will not change, analysts said, with Paris
unlikely to press for a strengthened European role in Asia as a
counterbalance to Washington.


"I don't think Sarkozy has any intentions of doing this," said
Rajendra K. Jain, a professor at the School of International
Studies, at Jawaharlal Nehru University in India.


"The French do recognise that the US is a superpower in this
unipolar world."


Nor is Sarkozy likely to change French policy on Southeast Asia,
according to Joergen Oerstroem Moeller, a former Danish
ambassador to Singapore and a visiting research fellow at the
Singapore-based Institute of Southeast Asian Studies.


"Relations between France and Southeast Asia have been very good
and I  think it will continue to be so. I don't think he will
change France's Asia policy," he said.

