

Bird flu has killed a woman in Indonesia, taking the death toll
in the country worst hit by the deadly virus to 75, a health
ministry official said Monday.


Two series of tests confirmed that the 29-year-old woman was
infected with the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus, said
Suhardaningrum, from the national bird flu information centre.


The woman was admitted to the International Hospital in Medan in
northern Sumatra on May 1 and died two days later, the official
said.


"There is a new bird flu victim and it is a woman, the 75th
person to die," said Suhardaningrum.


It was unclear how the woman contracted the virus as she did have
any known contact with sick poultry, the most common form of
infection, other officials said.


The latest death comes as Indonesia is embroiled in a dispute
with the World Health Organisation over delays on resuming
sharing bird flu samples with the UN body.


Indonesia agreed in March to an immediate resumption, after
reaching a breakthrough agreement in international talks with the
WHO to develop a new mechanism on sample-sharing.


But more than four weeks later, samples have not been sent.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari has said Indonesia would not
resume sharing samples aimed at fighting the deadly disease until
it receives certain guarantees in writing.


Indonesia stopped sending samples, aimed at fighting the deadly
disease, in December over concerns that drug firms would use them
to develop costly vaccines beyond poorer countries' budgets.


Indonesia wants in writing a guarantee that firms will need
permission from a country for access to its virus samples under
the March agreement.


The Indonesian government had hoped to eradicate human infections
this year.


In their drive to curb the spread of the virus, authorities in
the capital Jakarta, one of the worst hit areas, have banned the
popular practice of keeping chickens in backyards.


The WHO says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has infected at
least 282 people and killed around 170 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since the end of 2003.


Scientists worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. A
flu pandemic in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed
20 million people worldwide.

