

Justine Henin claimed her third title of the year on Monday when
she beat Ukraine's Alona Bondarenko 6-1, 6-3 in the rain-delayed
final of the Warsaw Cup.


Rain prevented the match being played on Sunday.


The Belgian world number one, who earlier took the honours in
Dubai and Doha, is undefeated in her nine matches in Warsaw after
also winning the event in 2005.


Bondarenko was competing in her first final since winning her
first career title in Luxembourg in September 2006.


Henin was never seriously stretched in the 61 minutes match, and
did little more than she was required to win.


At times the Belgian showed periods of real class, especially
with her powerful backhand, but she also allowed Bondarenko back
into a match was that clearly lost to her.


Having broken in the first game, Henin went on to break again to
lead 4-1 and for the set, surrendering only three points on
serve.


But after winning the opening two games of the second set at love
some careless play and a fourth double-fault allowed Bondarenko
to break back.


Then after levelling at 2-2 the plucky Ukrainian held three break
points on Henin's serve, but Henin raised her level once more.


With Bondarenko smelling the possibility of a third set Henin
raised her game still further, breaking to love to lead 5-3 and
holding off a break point as she closed out the match.


"I played a very consistent match," said Henin. "I just can be
happy about what happened. It was pretty hard yesterday.


"It was cold, it was freezing here, and it's a little bit sad we
have to play the final on Monday morning. It's the first time of
my career. But finally it was a good day today.


"In the second set I lost a little bit of my intensity. When I
was leading 2-0 in the second, things were going a little bit too
easy at that time and I lost my concentration for a few games.


"It's good I was able to keep my service game at that time (2-2).
It was a very important game. And then finally at the end of the
match I was pretty aggressive again."


Bondarenko re-enters the top 30 after her run to the final and
treated the match as a learning experience.


"I enjoyed the experience to play Justine and hope next time I
play better," said Bondarenko. "I wasn't hitting the ball hard
enough to win today. I was very nervous in the first set, but in
the second set I started playing a little better."

