

Embattled Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was due to face
motions of no- confidence in parliament on Monday, the latest
backlash over a scathing inquiry into his handling of last year's
Lebanon war.


Parliament was due to debate three no-confidence motions that
were lodged by both right-wing and left-wing opposition parties
at an afternoon session, officials said.


Most observers do not expect the measures to pass as Olmert still
enjoys the support of most of his 78-member coalition in the
120-seat chamber.


"The government is expected to survive Monday's no-confidence
vote by a large margin, so even if some individual coalition MPs
do vote against the government or abstain from voting, their
votes will be more of an insult than a real threat to its
stability," wrote the liberal Haaretz daily.


Earlier the head of the main right-wing opposition Likud party, a
sponsor of one of the motions, called on Olmert to step down.


"The vast majority of Israeli opinion demands that the prime
minister resign and that is also what the opposition is
demanding," said former premier Benjamin Netanyahu, whose Likud
party would win any early elections, opinion polls suggest.


"Judge Winograd's report clearly established that the government
has failed in its handling of the war" against Lebanon's
Hezbollah militia last summer, he told public radio.


Despite their predicted failure, Monday's votes will add to the
mounting pressure on Olmert, already weakened by months of
criticism over the war and a string of scandals marring his
government that have sunk his ratings to single digits.


So far the master politician has refused to resign over the
interim report released a week ago, saying that it would be
irresponsible and vowing to correct the mistakes uncovered.


The report blasted Olmert for serious failure in his handling of
the conflict, and said that Defence Minister Amir Peretz and ex-
chief of staff Dan Halutz failed in their posts, but stopped
short of calling for resignations.


Olmert managed to put down a mutiny within his centrist Kadima
party over the report last week, despite a call from key ally
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni to step down.


Following a closed-door meeting between the two on Sunday, Livni
pledged to keep working in an Olmert-led cabinet.


But new trouble could be brewing for the premier within his main
coalition partner Labour, observers say.


The party is due to elect a new leadership in late May and so far
all the front- runners to take over the helm from Peretz have
indicated that they favour pulling Labour out of the coalition
unless Olmert quits.


Labour currently has 19 seats in parliament and its departure
would leave Olmert's coalition with 59 seats -- two short of a
majority.


Under such a scenario, Olmert would have to cobble together a new
coalition, resign or face early elections.

