

Pakistan Monday named two uncapped players in a 16-man squad for
their three- match series against Sri Lanka in Abu Dhabi later
this month, aiming for a fresh start after a disastrous World Cup
campaign.


Pakistan were eliminated in the first round of the mega event,
held in the Caribbean in March-April, after losing to the West
Indies and Ireland.


Pakistan's campaign was also badly hit after their English coach
Bob Woolmer died in Jamaica on March 18, a day after their defeat
against Ireland. His death was treated as a murder and is still
being investigated.


Pakistan has yet to decide on a replacement for Woolmer, having
advertised the post last month. The Pakistan Cricket Board says
it will likely appoint a temporary coach for the team later this
week.


In a further upheaval for the side, team captain Inzamam-ul-Haq
quit one-day cricket and his potential replacement, Younis Khan,
turned down an offer to lead the side, citing personal reasons.


That forced Pakistan's cricket authorities to appoint young
Shoaib Malik as skipper for one year, beginning with the Abu
Dhabi series and matches scheduled for May 18, 20 and 22.


Left-handed spin bowler and allrounder Fawad Alam, 21, a notable
performer in the domestic season, gets his first chance in this
side while left-arm paceman Najaf Shah, 22, also breaks into the
national team after being constantly ignored.


Spearhead Mohammad Asif has returned to the squad after missing
the World Cup because of an elbow injury.


Asif, along with express paceman Shoaib Akhtar, was involved in a
doping scandal last year.


Akhtar was not considered for selection after he failed to prove
his fitness from a knee injury.


Chief selector Salahuddin Ahmed told AFP that Pakistan would now
make a fresh start after the World Cup "and hope that this team
settles before the hectic new season in which we play the
Twenty20 World Cup in South Africa, host South Africa, tour India
and then host Australia."


Younis, leg-spinner Danish Kaneria and allrounder Azhar Mahmood
were unavailable for selection due to commitments in English
county cricket after being part of Pakistan's squad for the World
Cup.


Ahmed said the new selection committee would infuse new blood
gradually.


"The new selection committee is in the power play stages and will
take time to make this team a stronger outfit," said Ahmed, who
replaced Wasim Bari as chief selector after the World Cup last
month.


Opener Salman Butt, discarded last year, will stage a comeback
while allrounder Abdul Razzaq has recovered from the knee injury
which forced him to miss the World Cup.


A new vice captain will also be announced later, the Pakistan
Cricket Board said.


Squad: Shoaib Malik (captain), Salman Butt, Imran Nazir, Yasir
Hameed, Mohammad Hafeez, Mohammad Yousuf, Fawad Alam, Shahid
Afridi, Abdul Razzaq, Kamran Akmal, Abdur Rehman, Mohammad Sami,
Mohammad Asif, Umar Gul, Rao Iftikhar, Najaf Shah.

