

An Iraqi lawmaker on Monday urged foreign firms attending an
international reconstruction fair in Jordan to help rebuild his
war-battered country, saying that more than 300 billion dollars
were needed.


"Iraq needs more than 300 billion dollars for reconstruction in
all fields -- oil, economy, industry, agriculture,
infrastructure," said Yunadem Kanna, a member of Iraq's
parliamentary commission on the economy, investment and
reconstruction.


"I urge the representatives of the firms attending this fair not
to hesitate and to participate in the reconstruction of Iraq,"
Kanna told AFP.


"Iraq is a huge market that needs expertise and technology in
order to take its seat among world countries," he said at the
opening of the fourth Rebuild Iraq international trade fair which
lasts until Thursday.


"We are not here to say that everything is fine in Iraq," Kanna
said, acknowledging that deadly daily violence was the main
hurdle facing foreign investors.


"There are security problems but we have safe areas in the north
and the south, and there is an investment law that gives foreign
firms many benefits," he said.


More than 700 Arab companies and foreign firms from Britain,
China, Egypt, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Japan, Russia, Saudi
Arabia and the United States are at the fair.


"This huge international participation clearly shows a desire by
these firms to work with their Iraqi counterparts and to forge
future deals," Jordanian Industry Minister Salem Khazaaleh told
reporters.


"The Iraqi market needs a lot of what is on display here today,
and everyone is hoping for stability in that country in order to
participate in its reconstruction," he added.


Last month Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki told South Korean
business leaders that the Iraqi people were struggling to "rise
from the ashes" of conflict.


"Because of its abundance in resources such as oil and gas, Iraq
has a great potential to become an advanced country," Maliki said
in Seoul after a visit to Japan to drum up support to revamp
Iraq's oil and petrochemical sectors.


Last week the leaders of more than 50 countries agreed at an
international conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh to fund reconstruction if Iraq meets certain economic
benchmarks.

