

Turkish lawmakers, moving to end a crisis that sparked fears for
Turkey's secular order, on Monday debated constitutional
amendments that would allow the president to be elected by
popular vote.


The proposal calls for a two-round popular vote to elect the head
of state, who is now chosen by parliament.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's Justice and Development
Party (AKP) is confident it will push the reforms through
parliament thanks to backing from a minor opposition party, the
centre-right Motherland Party (ANAP).


The two parties together have enough votes to secure the two-
thirds majority in the 550-seat legislature to amend the
constitution.


The package, in first-round debate, would also modify the
presidency to run for a once-renewable, five-year mandate instead
of the current single, seven-year term, and calls for holding
general elections every four years instead of the current five.


Parliamentary sources say lawmakers are expected to hold the
second and final round of debate on the package on Wednesday or
Thursday.


If adopted in parliament, the package will be sent to outgoing
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer for approval.


Monday's debate comes a day after parliament failed for a second
time to vote on the next president, prompting the sole candidate,
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, to withdraw from the race.


The prospect of having a former Islamist like Gul as president,
triggered mass secular protests and a tense stand-off between the
Islamist-rooted government and the army which threatened
intervention to protect the secular regime.


Parliament held a first round of voting in presidential elections
on April 27 in which Gul narrowly failed to garner the required
two-thirds majority to be elected.


Opposition parties boycotted that ballot and the Constitutional
Court later annulled the result on the grounds that parliament
had failed to establish the required quorum of 367 lawmakers in
order to make the vote legal.


That forced the government to bow to demands to bring legislative
elections forward from November to July 22.


Sunday's re-run of the first-round vote in presidential elections
was also boycotted by the opposition, thus robbing the AKP of the
chance to establish the required quorum.


Opposition parties are now arguing that early legislative
elections should be brought forward to June 24, but electoral
authorities have already said July 22 is the earliest possible
date on which they can organise a vote.


Blocked from getting its presidential candidate elected in
parliament, the AKP is now hoping to do that through a popular
vote.


Gul told Britain's Financial Times newspaper on Saturday that he
hoped to be his party's candidate in a direct election and
expressed confidence he had an overwhelming support among the
public.


The AKP has said it would like the first round of a popular
presidential vote be held simultaneously with the legislative
elections on July 22, but Erdogan conceded Sunday that they may
be unable to do that if the reforms are not adopted swiftly.


"It looks like we are going to put out just one ballotbox" on
July 22, he said after a meeting of his party leadership.


President Sezer has 15 days to approve or reject a law. If he
rejects the constitutional amendments, parliament will have to
debate them again.


Many legal experts have warned the AKP that hasty amendments
could create other problems in the functioning of the state
system.

