

A myriad of foreign policy challenges await new French president
Nicolas Sarkozy when he takes office next week, from freeing a
French hostage in Afghanistan to relaunching Europe and enlisting
the United States in the fight against global warming.


Sarkozy, a rightwinger who has unabashedly praised the United
States, is expected to strengthen France's role in Europe and in
international fora with an active diplomacy that will reach out
to Berlin and Washington.


The son of a Hungarian immigrant, he will succeed President
Jacques Chirac whose 12-year tenure was marked by France's
opposition to the US war on Iraq and the rejection of the EU
constitution in a referendum in 2005.


"Tonight, France is back in Europe," Sarkozy proclaimed late
Sunday in a victory speech delivered after he trounced Socialist
Segolene Royal in an election dominated by debate on domestic
issues, mainly economic reform.


He also held out a friendly hand to Washington, saying France's
"American friends can always count on our friendship" even though
the two may "think differently".


But Sarkozy also served notice that France would confront
Washington over its refusal to adopt the Kyoto treaty on climate
change, saying that global warming threatened "all of humanity."


"France will make this battle it's first battle," said the 52
-year-old former interior minister.


But the most pressing issue facing Sarkozy after he moves into
the Elysee on May 16 will be the hostage situation in Afghanistan
where a French aid worker has been held by the Taliban since
April 3.


The Taliban are demanding that France withdraw its troops from
Afghanistan in exchange for the release of Terre d'Enfance (A
World For Our Children) aid worker Eric Damfreville.


France won the release on April 28 of another aid worker after
Chirac personally telephoned Afghan President Hamid Karzai
several times and dispatched the foreign ministry's director to
Kabul to oversee the negotiations.


Winning the release of the aid worker could prove to the first
show by Sarkozy of France's clout beyond its borders.


"He will want to project the image of being active in
international affairs," said Pascal Boniface, director of the
Institute of International Strategic Studies in Paris.


Boniface said the hostage situation in Afghanistan would be the
first diplomatic test for the new head of state.


Sarkozy's first destination abroad after taking office will be to
Berlin to re- launch the Franco-German engine of Europe and to
Brussels for talks on the way forward for the European Union.


He campaigned on a promise to break the logjam over French
rejection of the EU constitution by submitting a mini-treaty to
parliament that will allow the EU institutions to function.


"He will want France to be one of the most assertive countries in
the EU," said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European
Reform in London.


"But he will want to work closely with London and Berlin because
he does believe that the big countries should dominate the EU,"
he said.


Grant said France's role in Europe will be enhanced if Sarkozy
succeeds in pushing through economic reform that could bring down
unemployment, currently one of the highest in Europe, and
stimulate growth, also lagging behind other euro-zone economies.


"As long as the French economy remains the sick man of Europe,
France will be an obstacle to integration and allowing the EU
generally to move forward," he said.


Sarkozy has also said he will travel to Africa to lay the
groundwork for new relations that experts say could re-define the
conditions for the three billions euros in annual bilateral aid.


"He will have to compensate for his tough message on immigration
with development aid if he wants to succeed in having an active
policy," said Boniface.


Sarkozy has said he will tighten immigration, notably by
restricting conditions that allow immigrants to be reunited with
their families in France.

