

The United States and European Union led congratulations to
French election winner Nicolas Sarkozy, who is expected to forge
closer ties with Washington and work to raise Europe's global
standing.


US President George W. Bush was among the first world leaders to
telephone the right-wing Sarkozy to congratulate him on his
convincing victory over socialist presidential candidate Segolene
Royal in the runoff election.


"The United States and France are historic allies and partners.
President Bush looks forward to working with president-elect
Sarkozy as we continue our strong alliance," said Gordon
Johndroe, spokesman for the White House National Security
Council.


In his victory speech, Sarkozy said the United States could count
on a friendship with France, which "will always be at their side
when they need help."


Franco-American relations cooled in 2003 when Paris, under its
now outgoing President Jacques Chirac, took a leading role in the
United Nations in opposition to Washington's plans to invade
Iraq.


European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he had
"full confidence" in the 52-year-old right-winger to "provide a
driving force" for reform in the 27-country bloc.


Barroso said in a statement: "I rejoice at the prospect of
working together for the strengthening of the European Union, in
a spirit of open-mindedness, for a Europe that does not withdraw
on itself but, strong in its values and assets, will win over the
challenge of globalisation."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sarkozy would strengthen the
French-German axis at the heart of the EU, which will "continue
to be the basis to secure lasting peace, democracy and prosperity
in Europe."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair telephoned Sarkozy to
congratulate him on his win, and Spain's Socialist Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero praised him as a "solid politician."


He "represents an open and modern right" that would help France
"recover its self-assurance and keep being a part of the European
locomotive in the 21st century", a statement from Zapatero's
office said.


Italian centre-left Prime Minister Romano Prodi said Sarkozy had
won a "handsome victory", saying: "My country, my government and
myself, personally, continue to consider France as a key ally and
you, personally, as a friend."


Slovenia's Prime Minister Janez Jansa said he expects Sarkozy's
win to herald "positive moves in France's position on some key
questions of the European (union) future."


In the first half of 2008, Slovenia will be the first of new EU
members to hold the union's presidency and will hand it over to
France that year.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert expressed hope that he and
Sarkozy could work together towards peace in the Middle East,
while right-wing opposition chief Benjamin Netanyahu said that
"with Sarkozy, France's politics will be much more balanced."


Chinese President Hu Jintao also offered his congratulations,
promising "to turn a new page of friendly relations and all-round
cooperation," according to the Xinhua news agency.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe welcomed the victory of
Sarkozy, who once derided Japan but has promised to support
Tokyo's bid to win a permanent seat in the UN Security Council.


"In a spirit of building a new era of the Japan-France
relationship, I want us to join together in our efforts," said
Abe, known for his conservative policies.


Abe and Sarkozy, both 52, met in January when the Japanese
premier visited France during his European tour.


"I sensed his strong determination to make France a better
country," Abe said.


Sarkozy was critical of Japan in 2004, at the time making fun of
sumo and the ancient capital of Kyoto -- which was often visited
by Chirac.


In Afghanistan, the Taliban insurgent movement warned that a new
French government must pull troops out of the country, but
offered to extend a deadline over the release of a French
hostage.


Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he had met
Sarkozy, "and I think he'll make a fine president."


New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark said she hoped relations
between France and New Zealand would continue to improve under
new president Nicolas Sarkozy.


"France is an important partner for us and things have come a
long way since the times of nuclear testing and the Rainbow
Warrior," Clark told Television New Zealand.


Greenpeace's flagship, the Rainbow Warrior, was destroyed in
Auckland Harbour in 1985 by a bomb planted by French military
spies, killing one person. Relations were further strained in
1995 when President Jacques Chirac ordered a resumption of
nuclear testing in French Polynesia.


Congratulations also came from French-speaking parts of Africa,
where Sarkozy has promised an overhaul of relations and tacitly
criticised Chirac's "personal" ties with the leaders of
questionable regimes.


Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said the French people
had "chosen in you a man of heart and of action."


Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade added: "It is with personal
pleasure that I offer you my warmest congratulations on your
brilliant election... which shows unmistakably the trust in your
social project."

