

The African Union announced on Monday it would send an extra
8,000 peacekeepers to Somalia but said dialogue remained the only
solution to the bloody conflict in that country.


"The crisis in that country has so far proved intractable. The AU
has decided to send 8,000 troops immediately to assist
peacekeeping efforts," AU chairman John Kufuor told the opening
of the seventh ordinary session of the Pan African Parliament
(PAP) in Midrand near Johannesburg.


"The solution to the situation lies with the people of Somalia.
We cannot impose a solution. But dialogue is better than allowing
force to reign," he said.


Hundreds have died since the beginning of the year as the Somali
capital Mogadishu saw an upsurge in clashes between government-
backed Ethiopian forces and Islamist insurgents and clan fighters
opposed to their presence.


On the ongoing conflict in Darfur in Sudan, Kufuor said the
deployment of United Nations troops to that country had been been
facing "odds" it was hoped would be overcome soon.


"The AU has been trying to exercise a leverage on the government
of Sudan and the opposition in a bid to solve the problem. It
seems some headway is being made. We hope that the hybrid force
would be allowed to move in soon," he said.


Civil war in Darfur began in 2003 and has left some 200,000
people dead and another two million displaced, according to
figures from international organisations which Sudanese
authorities reject.


The AU has deployed a peacekeeping force in the region since 2004
that includes 7,000 soldiers.


Officials have complained of a lack of equipment and manpower for
the mission but Khartoum has resisted the deployment of UN
peacekeepers in a "hybrid" force with the AU.


"We need to increase the number of peacekeepers in Darfur," said
Kufuor, who is Ghana's president.


On widespread complaints that greeted last month's elections in
Nigeria, the AU chairman said the organisation was "concerned"
over the situation in that country but warned against anyone
seeking unconstitutional redress.


Foreign and domestic observers said the polls were marred by
fraud and violence.


"The AU is naturally concerned about the happenings in Nigeria,
about the complaints after the elections. Whatever the perception
is, every aggrieved person should seek constitutional means of
redressing his complaint.


"Going outside the constitution to seek redress will not be
acceptable to the AU," said Kufuor.


The issue, as well as the ongoing political and economic crisis
in Zimbabwe would top the agenda for talks between him and South
African President Thabo Mbeki at a meeting in Pretoria on
Tuesday, Kufuor added.

