

Fifteen countries want reforms at the UN's weather agency
following a fraud scandal which has seriously damaged the
organisation, a senior Swiss official said Monday.


The 15, including Switzerland, will present a resolution at the
World Meteorological Organisation's (WMO) congress over the
coming two weeks to increase transparency and give the 188 member
states greater oversight over its management, said secretary of
state Michael Ambuehl.


The move follows a long-running investigation into alleged
embezzlement of reportedly more than four million Swiss francs by
a former employee, which was revealed in 2003.


The case was investigated by an internal audit and is the subject
of a probe by the Swiss judiciary in Geneva. The auditor
involved, Maria Veiga, says she was subsequently sacked by the
agency.


She has alleged in Swiss newspapers that the embezzled funds were
partly linked to campaigns for elections of the agency's
secretary general.


"The embezzlement case uncovered a few weeks after the previous
congress has caused serious damage," Ambuehl told the opening of
the WMO's congress here.


"To tackle natural catastrophes linked to global warming, we need
a strong WMO that is entirely focused on its basic mission," he
added.


Switzerland firmly condemned any wrongdoing in international
agencies, Ambuehl said, acknowledging that internal financial
controls have since been reinforced.


However he insisted that improvements in the organisation's
governance had to continue.


Ambuehl said member states were never able to take part into
attempts to deal with the 2003 embezzlement case "or other
important matters of governance."


The judicial probe has managed to recover some of the money, he
added.


The WMO's Secretary General, Michel Jarraud, denies any
wrongdoing or connection with the affair, a spokeswoman for the
WMO, Carine Richard Van Maele said, insisting that the agency has
fully cooperated with the probe.


"The secretary general is committed to continue to fully
cooperate with the Swiss Justice, as he has done in the past,"
she added.


"Any allusion suggesting that the current secretary general of
the WMO may have benefitted from influence peddling is
defamatory," the spokeswoman underlined.


Jarraud was elected in 2003 to succeed Nigerian Godwin Obasi at
the head of the organisation. Obasi, from Nigeria, had held the
post for 20 years.

