

A war of words broke out Monday between French Socialist
heavyweights battling for position in a party left reeling by the
defeat of its presidential candidate Segolene Royal.


Royal's failure to beat the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, the
Socialist Party's (PS) third consecutive defeat in a presidential
election, left her camp facing an uncertain future.


Commentators blamed the party's failure to adapt to a globalised
world, and warned that a round of score-settling and
recriminations -- possibly even a split in the party -- now
appeared inevitable.


Royal, whose nomination for the presidency raised high-level
opposition in the PS, appeared determined Monday to bounce back,
saying: "We are going to work, renovate, prepare for the coming
(legislative) elections."


After learning of her defeat, the 53-year-old vowed that "the
battle continues... I have embarked on a renewal of political
life, of its methods, and of the left."


Party first secretary Francois Hollande, who is Royal's partner
and father of her four children, warned his troops he would
accept no "score-settling" as the party forms battle ranks ahead
of the legislative elections in June.


"No doubt there are decisions to be made, but right now I will
tolerate absolutely nothing."


But no sooner had the results been announced than sparks started
flying, with Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a leading PS moderate,
leading the charge against the party's traditionalist wing.


Strauss-Kahn charged that Royal lost because the party had failed
under Hollande's leadership "to evolve into a modern left". "The
French people do not want us to offer them solutions from 20
years ago."


One of Royal's allies, the PS leader in the National Assembly
Jean-Marc Ayrault, fired back at Strauss-Kahn -- who was one of
Royal's rivals for the party nomination -- accusing him of making
vengeful and "aggressive" comments.


"I strongly advise Dominique Strauss-Kahn not to carry on in that
tone, one of score-settling," he said.


Another top party figure, former prime minister Laurent Fabius,
seemed to tack in the opposite direction from Strauss-Kahn,
saying the party had confused its electorate by making overtures
to the centre.


Between the two rounds of the election, Royal broke a party taboo
by proposing an anti-Sarkozy alliance with the defeated centrist,
Francois Bayrou.


Fabius, who broke with party ranks to campaign against the EU
constitution in a 2005 referendum, said the PS should anchor
itself more firmly on the left, and be "unapologetic" about its
values.


But on Monday he toned down his remarks, saying the party must
not "tear itself apart".


Some have raised the prospect the PS may split into two entities,
with traditionalists such as Fabius staying on the ideological
left and moderates like Strauss-Kahn forming a coalition with the
centre.


There was also a question mark over the role -- if any -- that
Royal should have in preparing the party for the coming
elections.


Hollande said Monday that "Segolene has acquired a strength that
will be useful to the left."


Strauss-Kahn -- while acknowledging Royal's work in renovating
the party -- has said he was "available" to lead a renewal of the
party.


Fabius has accepted she should be "part of the campaign team",
but said it should be a "collective" project.


A former environment minister, Royal emerged from nowhere to
challenge the PS barons after it became clear she alone had the
charisma to take on Sarkozy.


Campaigning on a platform of protecting the country's generous
welfare system, Royal's highly-personalised campaign style raised
hackles in her party, where critics painted her as a populist or
an authoritarian.

