

A pair of suicide car bombs exploded on Monday in the restive
western Iraqi city of Ramadi and claimed 20 lives, said Colonel
Tareq al-Dulaimi, a senior security official from Al-Anbar
province.


"Ten were killed in each explosion and both were from suicide car
bombs," said Dulaimi, the head of internal security in the area.


The first bomb was hidden inside a produce truck allowing it to
gain access to a popular market just north of the provincial
capital.


"This cowardly terrorist attack from Al-Qaeda targeted civilians
in a market place," Lieutenant Colonel Thamer Ahmed of the Iraqi
emergency response told AFP at the scene.


"The criminals of Al-Qaeda are trying to destabilise security and
they have nothing to do with Islam."


Around the officer smouldered the remains of several shops
destroyed in the blast which also set fire to nearby parked cars.


The second bomb exploded 15 minutes later targeting cars queuing
up at a police checkpoint two kilometres (one mile) away. The US
military said this bomb appeared to have been in a sedan.


Ahmed added that police had information that a third car bomb was
somewhere roaming through the area.


"We are searching for it," he said.


The double bombing came after senior US commanders talked up Al-
Anbar as a success story for the Iraqi government and its
American allies in restoring peace to the war-torn country.


Last month, coalition commander General David Petraeus told
reporters in Washington that "progress in Anbar is almost
something that's breathtaking."


In recent months, an alliance of tribal leaders has been working
with US forces against the Al-Qaeda-led insurgents, resulting in
a dramatic drop in violent incidents in Ramadi.


US forces on the ground, nevertheless, remain cautious, warning
that the insurgents will continue to carry out such operations
for some time to come.


"Things are going better in Anbar compared to recent months, but
I do not believe AQI (Al-Qaeda) will just give up the province,"
said Major Jeff Pool, public affairs officer for the US force in
western Iraq.

