

Rescue teams on Monday battled to reach the wreckage of a crashed
Kenyan Airways plane in swampland in southwest Cameroon, with
officials warning there was "practically no chance" that any of
the 114 people on board survived.


"It is a very bad terrain ... they will to cut through the
mangrove and access the crash site, then try to retrieve what
they have to retrieve," said an official with the Kenyan Civil
Aviation Authority, asking not to be named.


Cameroon's army cordoned off an area south of Douala around the
scene of the crash, that occurred in the early hours of Saturday,
after flight KQ 507 vanished from radar screens in a violent
storm on its way from Douala to Nairobi.


"The army search team that went out last night to the scene
reported that there was no chance that anybody survived the
crash," the aviation official said. "Things are very bad over
there."


A Kenya Airways official in Cameroon said there was "practically
no chance" of finding any survivors in the wreckage of the
passenger jet.


The exact sequence of the tragedy remained unclear, although the
civil aviation official said the six-month-old plane may have
been hit by lightning.


Kenya Airways CEO Titus Naikuni said Sunday that the plane
stopped emitting emergency signals after an initial distress
call, though an automatic device should have kept up emissions
for two days.


The transmitter is usually activated when there is a sudden
ascent or a sudden descent of a plane, according to Kenya Airways
pilot Captain Paul Mwangi.


A Kenyan delegation in Cameroon told AFP Monday that they were
still trying to reach the site of the crash.


"We are determined in this rescue operation even though we do not
have all (the equipment) we need at the moment," said official
Mohamed Ramtu.


Kenyan Airways said France had lent helicopters and the US
National Transportation Safety Board and Boeing had sent experts
to Cameroon.


Initially the search had centred on a vast area of dense forest
southwest of Yaounde but was then widened to marshland and the
sea further north.


Naikuni said Sunday that reports from local fishermen of hearing
a loud bang and a disturbance in the water near Douala finally
led the search teams to the wreck almost two days after the plane
lost contact.


The Boeing 737-800 began its journey in the Ivory Coast city of
Abidjan, and collected passengers on a stopover in Douala before
heading for Nairobi.


The plane was carrying 105 passengers from at least 23 countries.
Most had been planning to connect through Nairobi to other
destinations outside Kenya.


In Nairobi, families of the flight's nine Kenyan crew members on
Monday waited in agony for confirmation of the fate of those on
board the plane.


Kenya Airways said it would transport concerned relatives to
Cameroon and provide accommodation for up to two next of kin per
passenger.


Kenya Airways has three 737-800s in its fleet and Naikuni has
said the other two will not be grounded.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport, killing 169 passengers and crew.


Air France-KLM owns a 26-percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.

