

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas on Monday urged Israel to
respond favourably to a proposed US security plan despite its
rejection by his senior coalition partner Hamas.


"We think that there are important steps in this plan to
stabilise security and end the suffering of our people," Abbas
told a meeting of his Fatah party in Gaza. "We ask Israel to
respond favourably to this plan."


On Saturday, Hamas, the senior partner in a coalition with
Abbas's secular Fatah party, rejected the US plan put to Israel
and the Palestinians to end rocket fire in exchange for eased
restrictions on Palestinian movement.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Monday that the
government is examining the ideas proposed by the Americans.


"The ideas are being examined and Israel's position will be
agreed upon soon," said a statement from his office following a
meeting with visiting German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter
Steinmeier.


"Nevertheless the prime minister said that parts of the proposals
are already being implemented."


An official in Olmert's office had previously told AFP that the
Jewish state would not be able to implement several of the
recommendations because of security concerns.


The document, a copy of which was obtained by Israel's Haaretz
daily on Friday, sets out a timeline for implementing steps on
security and movement.


The proposed steps include Israel lifting restrictions on
Palestinian movement and the Palestinians deploying forces to
prevent the launching of rockets that are regularly fired by
Gaza-based militants into the Jewish state.


It also calls for moves to bolster security services loyal to
Abbas, who for months engaged in deadly clashes with Hamas troops
before a unity cabinet put a lid on the simmering factional
tensions on March 17.


While the Palestinian Authority welcomed the document as "a very
good approach," Hamas rejected it outright.


"We forcefully reject this abject and terrorist plan because it
calls for killing the Palestinian people and legalising the
occupation of Palestinian territory in exchange for security" in
Israel, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhum told AFP.

