

France's Nicolas Sarkozy won election as president on a right-
wing policy of liberalising labour laws, cutting taxes and
reducing the country's public-sector deficit, but also defending
French and European industry and curbing central bank
independence.


The policy plank which has attracted most media attention has
been Sarkozy's vow to "get France back to work," notably by
rolling back the 35-hour work-week adopted by a former Socialist
government, relaxing restrictions on overtime work and making
hiring practices more flexible.


The Socialist Party won legislative elections 10 years ago, with
the 35-hour week, seen as a means of combatting stubbornly high
unemployment, a central plank.


Sarkozy says his plan will help reduce unemployment, which at a
seasonally corrected 8.3 percent in March is slightly above the
EU average of 7.3 percent.


Although he will not abolish the 35-hour week, he has said he
will seek changes to French labour law, which gives strong
protections to employees.


Sarkozy has also vowed to cut taxes, bringing in a top rate of 50
percent for high earners and abolishing most estate taxes.


He has promised overall tax cuts totalling 15 billion euros (20
billion dollars) at the start of his term as well as a four-point
reduction in income tax and social charges -- worth almost 70
billion euros -- over a two-term presidency.


Despite these cuts he has at the same time vowed to slash
France's public debt, an issue which was given much publicity
during the election campaign, even though the country's figures
are by no means exceptional.


According to the latest figures from the European Union's
statistical service Eurostat, France's public deficit in 2006
amounted to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, higher than
the 27-country average of 1.7 percent but well under the figures
for several other major EU economies, including Britain (2.8
percent).


As regards public debt -- the accumulated effect of past deficits
-- Eurostat figures published in April put France's deficit in
2006 at below the EU average.


The 27 member states had an aggregate public debt equivalent to
69 percent of GDP, while the figure for France was 63.9 percent.
Among other leading EU economies, both Germany and Belgium had
higher public debt levels, respectively of 67.9 and 89.1 percent
of GDP.


And according to the US Central Intelligence Agency, the United
States had a public debt equivalent to 64.7 percent of GDP in
2005.


In spite of his preference for the market, Sarkozy has insisted
the public sector under his watch will not be neglected. He has
promised investment in research and innovation and a special
social security regime established for workers who lose their
jobs.


He has also made clear his opposition to the "excessive
compensation and privileges that a small minority of bosses has
awarded itself" and has urged the European Central Bank, in
setting interest rate policies, to pay closer attention to the
economic concerns of eurozone member governments.


Furthermore, despite his free-market credentials, he is seen as
having a traditional French "dirigiste" approach to industrial
policy, being prepared to intervene in key economic sectors and
companies when necessary.


Sarkozy's policies draw on a report he commissioned in 2004, when
he served as France's finance minister.


The report, produced by former International Monetary Fund chief
Michel Camdessus, painted a depressing picture of a France
hampered by high unemployment, declining productivity and an
over-large public sector.


It pointed in particular to what it called France's "work
deficit", caused by low working hours and structurally high
unemployment rates.


"If we are growing less quickly it is because we do not mobilise
our labour resources sufficiently," Camdessus wrote.


The latest EU estimates put France's GDP growth at 2.4 for 2007,
slightly below the average for the 13 eurozone countries, which
was 2.6 percent.


Germany was expected to grow at 2.5 percent, Britain at 2.8 and
Italy at a mere 1.9.

