

The French stock market took the election of rightwing reformer
Nicolas Sarkozy as president in its stride on Monday, showing
little change after a surge on Friday before the weekend vote.


The CAC 40 index of leading shares slipped slightly, by 0.07
percent to 6,064.80 points by early afternoon trading.


Financial markets in London were closed for a holiday.


The Euro Stoxx 50 index of leading eurozone shares fell 0.01
percent to 4,445.35.


Analysts said that the French market had anticipated that Sarkozy
would defeat rival Socialist candidate Segolene Royal.


On Friday the CAC 40 had risen by 1.08 percent, taking gains
during the week to 2.09 percent.


In London last week the FTSE 100 index had risen by 2.88 percent
and in Frankfurt, the DAX 30 by 1.76 percent.


Analysts said that the clear margin of victory for Sarkozy, with
53.06 percent of the votes, strengthened his prospects of
obtaining a majority in the National Assembly in legislative
elections in June, and therefore of being able to apply his
programme of economic reforms.


At brokers CM CIC, analysts said: "The current (rightwing)
majority in the assembly has a strong chance of benefiting from
the presidential dynamics and to emerge with at least as many
seats from this new test, and might even be stronger."


But "in the short term, the markets are following a global logic
and are unlikely to over-react to the event," they said.


ING bank said in a note to clients: "France will probably come
back quickly onto the international scene and give a new impulse
to the European process."


Economist Marc Touati said Sarkozy's economic team will be under
pressure to move quickly "to lighten tax burdens, ....
rationalise public spending to avert a widening in the deficit
and to ease regulations that weigh on the economy, notably on the
labour market."


In mid-day trading here, shares in European aerospace giant EADS
rose 1.63 percent to 23.65 euros after the company had annunced
that the Dubai-based airline Emirates had ordered four extra
Airbus A380 superjumbo jets, confirming a previous order for 43
of the giant aircraft despite production delays.


Gas utility GDF gained 2.61 percent to reach 36.23 euros on
speculation of a possible merger with energy group Suez or move
by Sonatrach of Algeria to take a stake in GDF's capital.


Construction group Bouygues added 2.90 percent to reach 61.72
euros as analysts again mentioned the possibility that its
Bouygues Telecom unit could be sold off.

