

Police in Portugal searching for a British three-year-old girl
taken from her holiday hotel room in the Algarve believe her
abductor could be from Britain, it was reported on Monday.


Madeleine McCann disappeared from her room in a seaside resort
near the village of Praia da Luz in southern Portugal on Thursday
as her parents ate dinner in a nearby restaurant.


Citing the police, the Portuguese press reported that
investigators had distributed a photofit of a suspect but had not
released the picture for fear of endangering the life of the
three-year-old.


"(The suspect) is a pudgy man of medium height. We know his chief
physical traits," said one of the investigators quoted in the
Correio da Manha.


Having not received any ransom demand police are working on the
theory that Madeleine's abductor could be a sexual predator or
linked to an international paedophile ring, the press reported.


Investigators have reportedly been analysing other abductions in
the area for clues that could lead them to the missing girl.


To help with the investigation, reinforcements have been brought
in alongside three police officers from Britain who joined the
search on Sunday.


The Portuguese police are also in contact with the European
police network Europol and its international counterpart,
Interpol.


Madeleine, known as "Maddie", had been left sleeping in the hotel
room she shared with her two-year-old twin brother and sister on
Thursday evening while her parents went to a nearby restaurant.


Gerry and Kate McCann, doctors from Leicester in the English
Midlands and both aged 38, checked back regularly on the
children.


But when they returned at around 10:00 pm (2000 GMT) they
discovered Madeleine was missing and the door of the room and a
window were open. There was no sign of a forced entry.


Portuguese police have interviewed all the guests staying at the
resort and the hotel's staff.


Several roadblocks were set up in the area as dozens of police
including dog handlers patrolled the area and maritime police
searched the coast.


Barra Da Costa, a former inspector with the judicial police told
the Portuguese newsagency Lula that since there was no forced
entry into the child's room it was likely the abductor was known
to the family.


On Sunday, the girl's parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, doctors
from Leicester in the English Midlands attended a mass in the
church of Praia da Luz.


After the service they thanked the local population for the
support they had received.


A relative of the family has meanwhile offered a 100,000 pound
(147,000 euro/200,000 dollars) reward for information that could
assist the investigation. The British Sun tabloid has offered
10,000 pounds.

