

Russia has declined an invitation from Estonia to attend
ceremonies to mark the end of World War II, including one in a
military cemetery where a monument to Soviet soldiers was
relocated last week, Russian diplomats said Monday.


"The Russian embassy has received an official invitation from the
Estonian foreign ministry to attend commemorative events on May
8, but we will stick to our original programme," Mazim Kozlov,
spokesman for the Russian embassy in Tallinn, told AFP.


"We will not attend the laying of flowers at the military
cemetery on May 8, because for Russia, Victory Day is on May 9,"
he said.


"On May 9, the Russian ambassador and other diplomats will lay
flowers at the military cemetery in Tallinn and at several other
locations in Estonia where there are Soviet war graves and
monuments," Kozlov said.


The Estonian authorities removed a Soviet war monument called the
Bronze Soldier from a central city square in Tallinn at the end
of last month. The statue was re-installed a few days later in a
military cemetery in a quiet neighbourhood of the Estonian
capital.


Russians see the monument as a sacred memorial to the millions of
Red Army soldiers who died fighting Nazism in World War II.


The removal of the statue sparked rioting in Tallinn, where half
the population of 400,000 is ethnic Russian, and plunged
relations with Moscow to their lowest point since this Baltic
state won independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.


Estonia will on Tuesday mark the end of World War II with
ceremonies at the Bronze Soldier monument, at a memorial to Jews
killed in the Holocaust, and at a war memorial in Tallinn to
Soviet and Estonian soldiers.


Western Europe, including Estonia, marks the end of World War II
on May 8, while Russia and many members of the large Russian
community in Estonia mark it the next day.


For Estonia and the other two Baltic states, Latvia and
Lithuania, May 9 marks the start of nearly 50 years of Soviet
occupation which began at the end of World War II and ended in
1991, when the Soviet Union crumbled.

