

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono Monday dismissed
five ministers in a cabinet reshuffle but stopped short of
sacking two accused of negligence.


Yudhoyono brought in five new faces and promoted graft
investigator Hendarman Supandji to Attorney-General in a move
seen as bolstering his government's fight against corruption.


"This limited reshuffle is aimed at improving the government's
performance in the two-and-a-half years ahead," said Yudhoyono.


"We put the right men in the right place in the new ministerial
cabinet."


Among those dismissed were justice and human rights minister
Hamid Awaluddin and secretary of state Yusril Mahendra, under
fire over allegations they helped Tommy Suharto transfer money he
was suspected of corruptly obtaining.


The youngest son of former dictator Suharto, Tommy remains the
enduring symbol of the corruption that plagued his father's more
than three-decade rule.


The foreign minister and a team of finance ministers, key
positions in the cabinet, remain the same.


Yudhoyono, midway through his five-year term, has been under
pressure to shake up the cabinet amid concerns that some of his
ministers were underperforming.


Embattled transport minister Hatta Radjasa had been fingered for
dismissal over a slew of recent transport disasters that have
killed several hundred people.


But instead, Yudhoyono, the nation's first democratically elected
president, transferred Radjasa to the prestigious position of
secretary of state.


Jusman Syafii Djamal, a new face, takes the crucial transport
ministry and is charged with overhauling the country's dismal
transport safety record.


The president appointed him to a team in January to evaluate the
sector's safety and security.


Aburizal Bakrie, the minister responsible for coordinating social
welfare, has kept his portfolio.


Bakrie was criticised after an energy firm linked to his family
was blamed for triggering a mud flow in East Java that displaced
15,000 people and swamped infrastructure.


Bakrie also oversees multiple efforts to combat bird flu in
Indonesia, the nation worst hit by the deadly virus.


Attorney-General Abdul Rahman Saleh has been dismissed and
replaced by Supandji, his deputy who has been in charge of
investigating corruption.


Minister for development acceleration Saefullah Yusuf was
replaced by Muhammad Lukman Edy, who was brought in from outside
government.


State enterprises minister Sugiharto was dumped for Sofyan
Djalil, the former communications and information technology
minister.


A new minister, Muhammad Nuh, takes the communications portfolio.


Andi Mattalata is the other new face as Justice and Human Rights
Minister.


Yudhoyono revealed last month he would make changes in early May,
sparking intense media speculation and political jostling.


But he rejected allegations Monday by the local media that he had
come under pressure from political parties and organisations to
appoint particular names to the cabinet.


He needs the support of six parties to maintain a majority in
parliament, including from the largest, the Golkar party, chaired
by Vice President Jusuf Kalla.


"I made some consultations with political party chairmen
regarding the reshuffle, but the final decision is in my hands as
it is the prerogative of the president," Yudhoyono said.

