

Islamic scholars and businesses must speed up Halal or Islamic
certification as technology advances or risk losing a market
worth over 600 billion dollars, Malaysia's prime minister warned
Monday.


Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said the world's population of 1.6 billion
Muslims are a "captive market" for Halal products -- those deemed
permissible under Islam.


But rapid advancements in technology such as genetically modified
food are challenging definitions and standards over what can be
deemed Halal, he said.


"There needs to be a 'Musyawarah' or meeting of minds among
Muslim jurists, scientists and business leaders on how to further
develop the global Halal industry," Abdullah told the opening of
the World Halal Forum here.


"If not, we will run the risk of being left behind and miss out
on the lucrative potential offered by the Halal sector," he said
in a keynote speech.


"If Islamic judgements cannot be made quickly and accurately on
the questions that industry poses, then hHlal integrity may
become obsolete and eventually falter. We cannot and must not
allow this to happen."


Under the concept of Halal -- meaning "permissible" in Arabic --
pork and its by-products, alcohol and animals not slaughtered
according to Koranic procedures are all "Haram" or forbidden.


Applying Halal standards stretches beyond food to include
products such as cosmetics, which may contain animal-derived
ingredients, and conditions under which products are prepared and
stored.


Abdullah, also the chair of the 57-nation Organisation of the
Islamic Conference, said it was a "duty for Muslims" to develop
the Halal sector.


"I would like to call on the leading Muslim nations in particular
to increase their investments in the Halal sector," he said.


Mainly Muslim Malaysia is trying to position itself as a global
hub for the Halal industry and organisers of the World Halal
Forum said some 900 participants from 40 countries had registered
for the event.


Key among issues being grappled with is the pressing need for a
standardised form of certification of Halal products.


Differing standards across Muslim countries and differences of
religious interpretation are confusing companies, forcing them to
seek Halal certification for products in several countries.


"We want to make sure there is no difficulty in trading Halal
products in the first place, for which you need some sort of
harmonisation," chairman of the World Halal Forum, Khairy
Jamaluddin, told reporters.


Differences "in terms of certification and differences in
standards still hampers a lot of trade in Halal products," he
added.


Malaysia's Halal Development Corporation is to offer Halal
certification overseas based on the nation's own standards but
Khairy noted the industry still lacked a single body working
internationally.


"We envision Halal to be a brand, a global brand, like fair
trade, like organic, like against animal testing. So everbody has
to agree on what is Halal," he said.

