

Polish European lawmaker Bronislaw Geremek was removed from an
honorary post in Poland for refusing to file a statement saying
if he had ties to the communist- era secret police, the
presidency said Monday.


Geremek was stripped of his post on the advisory board of the
committee of the Order of the White Eagle, the highest civilian
honour awarded by the Polish president, Maciej Lopinski, a
spokesman for the office of President Lech Kaczynski, was quoted
by PAP news agency as saying.


Geremek, a former anti-communist activist has refused to comply
with an amended Polish law requiring him to file a declaration on
whether he collaborated with secret police during the communist
era.


Polish authorities have also threatened to strip him of his
mandate as a European lawmaker.


He has asked that no action be taken against him until Poland's
constitutional court has had a chance to rule on the law.
Hearings are scheduled to begin Wednesday.


Amendments to Poland's "lustration" law drastically extended the
dragnet of the legislation, which previously affected only
lawmakers, government ministers and judges, or around 30,000 of
Poland's 38 million people.


It now affects around 700,000 Poles.


The extended law requires academics, journalists, managers of
state-owned firms, school principals, diplomats and lawyers, as
well as political and judicial figures, to file vetting
declarations or risk losing their jobs.


Geremek, 75, is a history professor, founder-member of the
Solidarity trade union in the 1980s and former foreign minister.


He has said the law trumpeted by President Lech Kaczynski and his
twin brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, was "creating an
Orwellian-style ministry of truth" in Poland.


Rooting out communists was a key pillar of the successful
election campaigns of both Kaczynskis, who came to power in 2005.


Poland's first democratically elected post-communist prime
minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, 80, has also been removed from the
advisory committee of the Order of the White Eagle, for refusing
to submit a vetting declaration.

