

US forces in Iraq said on Tuesday they had arrested two leaders
of a network suspected of killing about 900 civilians and
wounding nearly 2,000 others in a series of car bomb attacks.


Haytham Kazim Abdallah al-Shimari and Haydar Rashid Nasir al-
Shammari al-Jafar were nabbed separately six days ago on March 21
in Baghdad's hardcore Sunni militant bastion of Adhamiyah, the US
military said.


"It is estimated that since November, the car bombs from this
cell have killed approximately 900 innocent Iraqi civilians and
another 1,950 have been wounded," the military said.


Shimari, the alleged leader of the network, was arrested after he
and his driver traded fire with US troops trying to flag his
vehicle down.


According to the US military, Shimari is suspected of helping to
plan and execute "the majority of car bombs which have killed
hundreds of Iraqi citizens in Sadr City" -- an impoverished
Shiite disitrict repeatedly rocked by attacks.


The Baghdad neighbourhood has been hit by countless devastating
car bombs -- the weapon of preference for Sunni fighters active
in the brutal Sunni-Shiite sectarian warfare threatening to tear
the capital apart.


In November, 202 people were killed and hundreds more wounded in
a coordinated car bombing in Sadr City, the deadliest single
insurgent attack since the US-led invasion in 2003.


Jafar, the network's second in command, was arrested in Adhamiyah
within 24 hours of Shimari following an intelligence tip, the
military said.


He was netted with two other suspected members of the network,
Ahmed Hassan Niami and Hamid Selman Allawi, while driving through
Adhamiyah.


"By capturing leaders of this cell, coalition forces are able to
further disrupt the network's ability," the military said.


Insurgents have continued to carry out high-profile car bombs in
and around Baghdad despite a massive security crackdown launched
on February 14 that has already seen 80,000 Iraqi and American
troops deployed on the city streets.


US and Iraqi forces are now sweeping the outskirts of Baghdad for
car bomb factories in a bid to stop the movement of explosives
into the Iraqi capital.


The US military maintains that while the daily execution-style
killings, a hallmark of Shiite militias, have fallen in Baghdad,
the trademark car bombs associated with the Sunnis have remained
a headache to security forces.


Tens of thousands of people have been killed in Iraq's brutal
insurgency and sectarian bloodshed, mostly in Baghdad, over the
last four years.

