

A vast majority of Egyptian voters approved the controversial
changes to their constitution, the government announced on
Tuesday, even as the opposition scoffed that few people bothered
to turn up.


Justice Minister Mamduh Marei said 75.9 percent of Egyptians who
took part in the referendum voted in favour of the amendments to
34 articles proposed in December by President Hosni Mubarak.


He added that 27.1 percent of the 35-million-strong electorate
participated.


Opposition parties -- which had called for a boycott of the
referendum -- contested the figure, arguing that turnout did not
even reach the 10 percent mark, while civil society groups
protested of widespread vote rigging.


The regime has defended the changes as a boost to democracy and
security, but observers have described the amendments, especially
new anti-terrorism measures, as a major setback for basic
freedoms.


Tuesday's newspapers reflected the divide.


The state-owned press hailed a successful referendum and were
filled with pictures of citizens voting, while the opposition
press showed empty polling stations and angry protests.


"Popular turnout above expectations," readthe banner headline in
Al-Ahram, Egypt's premier state-owned daily, showing citizens
with stained fingers from purple polling ink and the president's
family voting.


"The future began yesterday," added the pro-government Rose Al-
Youssef which published a special double-size issue to praise the
amendments that the government has said will strengthen democracy
and fight terrorism.


The coverage reflected a vigorous campaign by state-owned media
which have filled the airwaves with news programmes,
advertisements and even music videos praising the amendments.


The opposition, including civil society organisations and the
Muslim Brotherhood, maintain that the amendments will only
strengthen the regime's grip on power.


Several changes were seen as specifically designed to ensure a
smooth transition of power from Mubarak to his son Gamal.


While state-owned newspapers said the boycott had failed and was
even "harmful to democracy", in the words of Al-Akhbar, the
opposition told a different story.


"The nation teaches the government a lesson and boycotts the
referendum," roared the liberal opposition daily Al-Wafd, showing
pictures of empty polling stations and dozing guards.


The paper reported widespread fraud, with workers and civil
servants being bused from polling station to polling station
while elsewhere the glass-fronted ballot boxes remained empty.


The independent daily Al-Masri Al-Youm struck a more resigned
note with a massive red banner headline that read "Nothing New",
in reference to what it said was a rigged referendum.


The paper, which has one of the largest circulations in Egypt,
ran a photograph of a woman weeping over the referendum and
black-clad security forces filling downtown Cairo.


Civil society organisations monitoring the polls said in many
cases their observers were not allowed in and they noted many
irregularities in the balloting.


"Obvious fraud characterised the final hours of referendum," said
the Hisham Mubarak Law Center in its report on the referendum
which described widespread vote rigging.


It noted three distinct phases during Monday's voting: low
turnouts at first, followed by the busing of workers and civil
servants to various polling stations, and finally the stuffing of
ballot boxes.


Ghada Shahbandar of the Shayfeenkom monitoring group, formed two
years ago during presidential elections, backed up opposition
reports that few people took part in the referendum.


"This does not look like a popular Egyptian vote," she told AFP.
"It is a referendum by President Mubarak and his ruling National
Democractic Party and only their people showed up."

