

Olympic and nationalist pride were on show in Beijing on Tuesday
as China marked the 500-day countdown to the 2008 Olympics.


It was business as usual for most Beijingers but TV channels
played up the countdown while newspapers put out special editions
with front-page photos and stories on next-year's August 8-24
Games.


Marketing student Zhong Qiong, 22, from eastern Zhejiang province
near Shanghai had to have her picture taken under the countdown
clock on the eastern edge of Tiananmen Square.


"My friends will want to see that photo," she said. "Even before
Beijing won the bid to host the Games (in 2001), the Chinese
people were really passionate about it."


Staging the Olympics shows that a once backward country can hold
its own with the rich and powerful nations, said her boyfriend Fu
Wangyun, a law student.


"Only strong and stable countries stage the Olympics," he said.
"And we are confident that Beijing will do a great job."


President Hu Jintao, prior to departure for an official visit to
Russia on Monday, praised the Olympic organising committee and
said preparations were on track for a highly successful Games.


"The Chinese government pays great attention to the Beijing
Olympics," Hu was quoted as saying by Xinhua news agency.


"We believe, through our efforts, we can host a special and high-
level Olympic Games."


Planning was on schedule including construction of venues,
organisation of sports events, cultural activities, security
planning and preparations for media services, he said.


Later Tuesday the highlight of 500-day countdown activities will
be the unveiling of the 2008 Olympic medals at Beijing's Capital
Museum, organisers said.


State television will give live coverage of the presentation of
the gold, silver, and bronze medals specially minted for the 2008
Games.


In addition Olympic and city officials are attempting to play up
the occasion by staging some 40 countdown events, mostly in parks
and other venues away from the town centre.


Beijing's notorious pollution and traffic congestion are key
problems for Olympic organisers for whom Tuesday's powder-blue
clear skies must have come as a welcome omen.


But jitters about security on the famous square were clearly in
evidence with soldiers and uniformed police on duty and plain
clothes officers on alert.


Talking to Chinese visitors was considered a deeply suspicious
activity by one track-suit clad officer, who shadowed AFP all
morning on the square.


Also clearly in evidence was the limited success of the campaign
recently launched to improve the manners of Beijing residents
ahead of the Olympics.


Officials fear that bad behaviour such as spitting, smoking in
public, and queue-jumping could take the gloss off Beijing's
image during the games.


Already the city government has launched official "queuing"
promotion days, and is busy running a "smile" campaign to lift
the expressions of glum residents.


"No one really pays any attention to that kind of thing. That's
just for the bureaucrats," said the owner of an unlicensed taxi
who declined to give his name.

