

A vast transatlantic stock market emerged on Tuesday when the New
York Stock Exchange won control of pan-European market operator
Euronext, creating an entity worth 29 billion dollars linking
trading platforms in six cities.


The two markets said in a statement that the NYSE had acquired
91.42 percent of Euronext capital and 92.22 percent of the voting
rights according to a provisional tally of shareholder
acceptances.


The new leviathan, creating the first inter-continental stock
market capitalised at about 22 billion euros, will bring markets
in New York, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon under one
group and will also include the Liffe financial futures market in
London.


The NYSE and Euronext hope that by coming under one roof, they
will be able to increase the amount of their business as each
will be open to customers of the other.


The two companies will also be able to share the costs of
computer systems and administration, saving 375 million dollars
(284 million euros) in 2009.


The NYSE and Euronext said the the French stock market regulator
AMF would publish definitive results of the offer on Friday,
after which it would be extended for 10 trading sessions.


The extension would allow the NYSE to acquire at least 95 percent
approval from Euronext shareholders, the level needed for the
European group to be withdrawn from stock market listings.


Trading in shares of the new company, to be known as NYSE
Euronext, would begin on April 4 in Paris and New York.


Jan-Michiel Hessels, chairman of the Euronext advisory board and
future chairman of NYSE Euronext, said the combined entity would
be "the world's largest exchange group" and would "generate cost
and revenue synergies that will serve both our clients and our
shareholders."


Marshall Carter, NYSE group chairman and future deputy chairman
of NYSE Euronext, also spoke of "the many benefits of this
combination to all of our stakeholders, particularly our
customers and shareholders."


The success of the venture had never been in doubt after
shareholders at the end of December gave near unanimous approval
for the tie-up. The main offer was based on the exchange of one
Euronext share for 0.98 shares in NYSE Euronext.


In the last few years European stock markets, essentially those
in Frankfurt and London, and Euronext, have been entwined in
moves and counter moves to form alliances but without success.


Meanwhile in the United States, the financial derivatives market
ICE, controlling the New York Board of Trade and futures markets
in London and Dublin, wants to make a counter bid for the Chicago
Board of Trade, which is in the process of being bought by the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.


When the NYSE bid for Euronext was announced a year ago, it
raised hostility in political and economic circles in Europe on
the grounds that it was not a "merger of equals" as claimed by
the architects.


Opposition was based on the assessment that it amounted to an
outright takeover of the pan-European exchange Euronext by US
interests.


But the British investment fund TCI, which had preferred an
alliance between Euronext and the Frankfurt exchange Deutsche
Boerse, earlier this year reduced its shareholding from more than
9.0 percent to less than 5.0 percent.


In practice the two component markets will retain their separate
identities, their specific trading arrangements and their trading
hours.


A vital point is that companies quoted on each market will
continue to operate under existing regulations. European
companies will not be affected by severe accounting rules, as
stipulated by the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation, which are much
criticised in the United States for increasing costs on quoted
comapnies.

