

Canberra Tuesday welcomed a guilty plea by Australian Guantanamo
Bay inmate David Hicks, but opposition critics of US justice
dismissed it as an act of desperation.


"The government does welcome the progress towards the resolution
of Hicks' case," Prime Minister John Howard told parliament.


"It has always been our view that Hicks should face justice, but
we have been very concerned about the time it has taken."


The detention of the former kangaroo skinner and Muslim convert
in the US military prison for five years has, however, split
Australians, and many expressed scepticism over his guilty plea.


The leader of the Greens Party, Senator Bob Brown, said it was
"simply a plea for release, for exit from the inhumane Guantanamo
gulag."


He was backed by the Australian Democrats, which called the
guilty plea "a desperate act by a desperate man."


"This seems the only way David Hicks can escape the hell-hole of
Guantanamo Bay," said the party's foreign affairs spokeswoman,
Senator Natasha Stott Despoja.


Hicks, 31, pleaded guilty at a US military tribunal to providing
material support for terrorism after defence lawyers said he was
weighing a plea deal that could get him out of the US-run prison
in Cuba.


Hicks was captured in Afghanistan in 2001 during the US-led
invasion which overthrew the Taliban regime after the 9/11
attacks on New York and Washington.


He was accused of undergoing training at an Al-Qaeda camp in
Afghanistan and volunteering to fight alongside the Taliban
during the invasion.


Hicks' case became a huge political issue in Australia, with
polls showing the public growing increasingly angered by his long
detention without trial.


Facing an election this year, Howard began pressing his close
ally, US President George W. Bush, to expedite Hicks' trial and
he became the first detainee to be charged before special new US
military tribunals.


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer noted that Hicks could be back
in Australia soon under a prisoner exchange deal.


"We have an arrangement with the Americans whereby he can serve
any residue of his sentence in an Australian prison," he added.


Hicks has been portrayed by the prosecution and by some
government spokesmen as an aspiring holy warrior trained by Al-
Qaeda, and as simply a restless youth by his family and
supporters.


Noting the split in Australian attitudes towards Hicks, Downer
said: "First of all there was the view that Hicks clearly
couldn't have done anything wrong, and we hate the Americans and
all of that.


"There were people who thought David Hicks should just be strung
up, he was obviously a horror.


"And there were people in the middle, which is where I was,
really. My view was always that the legal process had just taken
far too long."


Greens leader Brown, however, said it was shameful that Australia
was "in the undignified position of appearing to support this
trumped-up kangaroo court at Guantanamo Bay."


But Justice Minister David Johnston said the plea was a serious
step and undermined arguments that Hicks had simply been an
adventurous but misguided young man.


"I am just saying there's a stark contrast between him being a
theological tourist and pleading guilty to aiding terrorists," he
said.

