

Business confidence in Germany bounced back in March towards the
16-year high point it had topped in December, as concern about
the restrictive effect of a rise in sales tax faded, a survey
showed on Tuesday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
107.7 points in March from 107.0 points in February, Ifo said in
a statement.


The increase put the index just one point away from the record
high of 108.7 points recorded in December.


This month's rise took analysts by surprise: concensus forecasts
had been pencilling in a further decline in March month after the
index had already fallen in January and February.


"The decline in the index in the first two months of the year,
which was presumably attributable to the increase in value-added
tax (VAT), has not continued," said Ifo President Hans-Werner
Sinn.


"The surveyed firms have given more favourable assessments of
their current business situation and their business outlook for
the coming six months. The economic upswing is strong and
robust," Sinn said.


On January 1, the government increased VAT by three full
percentage points to 19 percent, the biggest-ever single rise in
a move which experts said would put the brakes on consumer
spending and therefore drag on overall growth of the eurozone's
biggest economy.


However, such concerns had now evaporated, Ifo chief Sinn said.


For its monthly survey, Ifo polls some 7,000 companies about
their assessment of current business and their expectations for
the next six months.


A breakdown of the data showed that the current sentiment sub-
index rose to 112.4 points in March from 111.6 points in
February.


And the expectations sub-index also increased, rising to 103.2
points from 102.6 points, Ifo said.


A sector breakdown showed that the business climate in the key
manufacturing industry had improved, a development that was "all
the more remarkable since expectations for future export business
remain largely unchanged," Ifo found.


There was a "slight cooling of the business climate" in the
construction sector. And in the retail sector, the climate "also
improved somewhat," the think-tank continued.


"Last month, retailers gave clearly worse assessments of their
business situation as a result of the VAT increase. But in March,
their discontent receded. Their six-month outlook remains
cautiously optimistic," Ifo said.

