

Jemaah Islamiyah remains Southeast Asia's most potent extremist
group and threatens to open a front in southern Thailand despite
the elimination of more than 200 of its members in Indonesia, a
terrorism researcher said Tuesday.


Authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) for a number of
bombings in Indonesia, including attacks on the resort island of
Bali in 2002 and 2005 which together killed more than 200 people.


Two key JI members, suspects in the Bali attacks, have been the
target of a massive military operation in the southern Philippine
island of Jolo where they are being sheltered by local Muslim
armed groups.


JI is "the main threat group in Southeast Asia," Rohan Gunaratna,
head of the International Centre for Political Violence and
Terrorism Research, told delegates at the opening of Global
Security Asia, a three-day conference and exhibition on "homeland
security".


"Although JI's network in Singapore and in Malaysia has been
dismantled, this group still remains the most capable and the
most credible terrorist organisation in the region," said
Gunaratna, whose research institute is based at Singapore's
Nanyang Technological University.


He said that over the past five years, regional nations have
built elite forces which are now able to manage the threat. He
cited the Indonesian police Detachment 88, a US-trained unit
"that has now killed or arrested more than 200 members of Jemaah
Islamiyah."


Despite Indonesian police success in targeting JI cells, the
group's structure remains intact and JI in Indonesia and the
Philippines have shown "great interest" in sending fighters and
explosives experts to southern Thailand, Gunaratna said.


"The jihadists in Southeast Asia... want to create a new front,"
he said.


More than 2,000 people have been killed since separatist violence
erupted three years ago in Thailand's Muslim-majority provinces
along the southern border with Malaysia.


Thai officials admit that they still do not know who is behind
the violence because no one has claimed responsibility for any of
the attacks or made any demands of the government.


Thai government officials and outside analysts say that unlike
previous outbreaks of separatism, which were motivated mainly by
a desire for regional autonomy, the latest violence is
increasingly fueled by religious extremism.


"Right now the conflict in Thailand is very much localised, but
within the next five years this conflict will become a regional
conflict," Gunaratna said, likening its future to Mindanao in the
southern Philippines.


The Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) has fought for a
separate Islamic state in Mindanao, home to the Abu Sayyaf Group
which gained global notoriety because of its kidnapping of
foreign tourists for ransom.


Singapore's Senior Minister of State for Law and Home Affairs Ho
Peng Kee last year said there were reports that "cohorts of
trainees from the region" were trained at camps in Mindanao.


Gunaratna said close cooperation with the United States has given
Philippines security forces added capability including night
vision technology, unmanned aerial vehicles and psychological
warfare operations.


He also said a joint US-Philippines effort to build schools,
roads and other facilities in secured areas of the Muslim-
dominated south has led the population to turn away from
"terrorism."


Gunaratna emphasised that while cooperation among law enforcement
officers can help manage the threat from extremists, it will not
be eliminated without building bridges into the Muslim community.


"Unless we win the hearts and the minds of the Muslims, we will
fail," he said.

