

Two key Pakistani players have arrived home while most of the
rest of the team were due late Tuesday or overnight as the probe
into the murder of coach Bob Woolmer continued, officials said.


Vice captain Younis Khan and star batsman Mohammad Yousuf arrived
in the southern port city of Karachi late on Monday, a Pakistan
Cricket Board (PCB) official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"Younus and Yousuf have arrived while some other players
including skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq are due late Tuesday or early
Wednesday" the official said.


Khan was met by friends and family at Karachi airport while
Yousuf took a connecting flight, thought to be for the eastern
city of Lahore.


Khan refused to comment as he was driven away, witnesses said.


"I am crazy about cricket but although I knew it was Khan, I did
not take his autograph because the team have disappointed us,"
said Sheraz Ahmed, 16, who waited through the night at Karachi
airport.


Inzamam and the team arrived in London on Sunday and have been
staying at a hotel near the capital's Heathrow airport for a pre-
arranged stopover en route home after their doomed trip to the
World Cup in the Caribbean.


Pakistani police said they had taken security measures for the
players in order to avoid any problems with angry fans on their
return to their cricket-obsessed homeland.


The team went out in the first round of the tournament after a
stunning loss to Ireland, sparking protests by angry fans as well
as speculation about a possible link between Woolmer's murder and
match-fixing gangs.


"We have taken security measures and will ensure their security,
but so far we are not sure on which flight they are coming,"
Karachi police chief Azhar Farooqi said.


Sources said the players might arrive on separate flights to
Lahore and Karachi via Dubai.


Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz on Tuesday deplored the
murder of the 58 -year-old Woolmer but played down suggestions
that corruption was involved.


Aziz, in Hong Kong for a business forum, said Woolmer's death had
been a tragedy and called for the culprits to be "brought to book
no matter who they are."

