

Iraq on Tuesday prepared to debate a new bill designed to woo
members of the outlawed Baath party into mainstream politics and
government jobs in a reconciliation bid to quell rampant
conflict.


On Monday, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal
Talabani sent a draft reformed de-Baathification law -- pushed by
outgoing US ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad -- to the cabinet
and parliament for approval.


The bill aims to offer jobs to former regime officials who did
not hold high positions, in an effort to reform deeply
controversial legislation that saw tens of thousands of army and
government officials sacked after the 2003 US-led invasion.


The original de-Baathification law and the disbanding of former
president Saddam Hussein's sprawling military has been widely
recognised as a key American policy mistake that fuelled the
deadly Sunni-led insurgency.


The reformed bill offers immunity to former Baathists after a
six-month challenge period during which any Iraqi can file a
lawsuit against any Baathist or former security officer suspected
of crimes.


But after this period, all Baathists will be immune from
prosecution over their actions under the former regime. The new
law also confirms pensions for Baathists and their families,
regardless of rank.


"The aim is to ensure the application of justice and equality,
and the preservation of rights in the context of national
reconciliation," Maliki's office said on Monday.


Khalilzad, who is due to leave Iraq within days, welcomed the
draft legislation.


He said it would give those who have de-Baathified in the past
"the opportunity to return to their jobs, provided they were not
at the highest levels of the former regime and have not been
involved in criminal activity."


Soon after Saddam's toppling in 2003, then US administrator for
Iraq Paul Bremer dismantled the Baath party and sacked tens of
thousands of its members.


The controversial de-Baathification law became a major source of
grievance for the minority Sunnis, who have since fought
relentlessly against US troops and the current Shiite-led,
American-backed government.


Iraqi Shiite lawmakers on Tuesday welcomed the new bill, hailing
it as an opportunity to divorce the majority of Sunni Baathists
from violence and reel them back into the nation-building
process.


"There is no doubt it will help reduce the cycle of violence in
the country if the Baathists returned to their administrative and
social posts," Hassan al- Sinaide, an MP in Maliki's Dawa Party,
told AFP.


"I think we are in need of a radical reform for the sake of
national reconciliation."


But Sunni lawmakers remained sceptical as Shiite-Sunni sectarian
violence continued.


"I doubt they (the Baathists) will return," said Dhafer al-Ani, a
prominent lawmaker from the National Concord Front, the main
Sunni bloc in the Shiite and Kurdish-dominated parliament.


"Many Baathists have been targeted. There is a programme by some
political parties and militias to finish them up. So the law is
not effective in practice."


Kurdish MP Mahmud Othman said the draft law is an attempt to make
use of the vast pool of talent among former regime officials.


"Baath party has professionals, they know how to work in a
state," he said.


"The present regime wants to benefit from them. Iraq currently is
not run in a good way, as we know what has happened in the past
four years. From the start the present regime should have
benefited from the people of old regime."


Khalilzad, a Sunni Muslim, said the new bill was a "significant
step in the right direction and will be a major pillar of a much-
needed national compact among Iraqis."


Talabani, before heading for a summit in Riyadh, also indirectly
urged Arab nations to help unify Iraq.


"We ask the Arab Summit to support the political process in Iraq
and to stand by our side against terror, to cancel our debts and
reparations," he said.


Most Arab nations, who are majority Sunni states, had urged Iraq
to review the de-Baathification law.


In Riyadh on Tuesday, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said
Baghdad does not need a "diktat" from the Arabs on how to amend
its constitution and boost national reconciliation.


"Amendment of the constitution is an obligation written in the
text of the constitution, and we are determined to do it without
waiting to be told," he told AFP.

