

Britain rushed Tuesday to enact a landmark accord to restore
power-sharing in Northern Ireland, a day after it was struck at
historic talks between rival Prostestant and Catholic leaders in
Belfast.


The British government was to present emergency legislation to
lawmakers to make way for a six-week delay in resumption of self-
rule in the long-troubled British province, which has been
suspended since 2002.


Long-time arch foes Ian Paisley and Gerry Adams made history on
Monday by holding their first-ever face-to-face meeting,
clinching an accord only hours ahead of a midnight deadline set
by Britain and Ireland.


Specifically they agreed to restore power-sharing on May 8, as
demanded by Democratic Unionist (DUP) chief Paisley, who wants
more time to assess the commitment of Adams' Sinn Fein to
policing in Northern Ireland.


The accord was welcomed above all by British Prime Minister Tony
Blair, who has pushed for a Northern Ireland deal before he
leaves office within the next six months after a decade in power.


"Everything we have done over the last 10 years has been a
preparation for this moment," he said.


The emergency British legislation was expected to secure cross-
party support in parliament in London, and could be on the
statute book potentially by the end of the day, experts said.


Adams, whose Catholic-backed party is the political wing of the
Irish Republican Army (IRA), said the deal opened up a "new era"
for Northern Ireland, while Protestant preacher Paisley hailed
"enormous opportunities."


Washington's State Department spokesman Tom Casey said: "It is
certainly a very positive step and one that moves the process
forward. We welcome it and certainly hope to see that agreement
now implemented."


Paisley and Adams were figureheads of Northern Ireland's
sectarian divide and bitter foes throughout "The Troubles", which
saw more than 3,000 people killed over three decades.


Paisley is now likely to become the province's first minister,
with Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness, a former IRA
commander, as his deputy.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the landmark 1998
Good Friday peace agreement, which aimed to form a lasting
settlement following paramilitary ceasefires.


The assembly has been suspended since October 2002 when
allegations surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the
parliament buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed
directly from London ever since.


One warning note came Tuesday from US Senator George Mitchell,
who played a key role in brokering the Good Friday Agreement.


"While this is a very important step, no-one should think trust
and love is going to be breaking out tomorrow," he told BBC
radio.


"That will take a long time but this is a step forward."

