

In the heart of northern France's former mining belt, the town of
Bully-les- Mines polled a record number of "no" votes in the
referendum on a proposed EU constitution two years ago.


Today -- at the approach of a French presidential election next
month -- the "Bullygeois" express a mood of utter disillusion.


"The candidates are all the same -- powerless. They can't do
anything for us, what with all the globalisation and the
factories moving abroad," says Thomas Gala, a 48-year-old sweets
seller.


"Ten years ago I did seven markets a week to make ends meet. Now
I have to do 11. People have less money now than they did before
the euro came. So they are buying less," he says.


Bully-les-Mines was the record-holder in the May 2005 referendum,
polling 75 percent against the proposed treaty, compared with 55
percent of the country as a whole. At the last national
elections, some 25 percent chose the far-right National Front
(FN).


Like many in this town of 12,000 -- with 21 percent unemployment
-- some 45 kilometres (30 miles) from the Belgian border, Gala
says he has no idea who he will vote for on April 22.


"The problems here are silent ones. It is unemployment and the
cost of living. Bread went up with the euro but our salaries did
not. When it comes to basic things like that, the EU is a
disaster," says Sonia, an unemployed 45- year-old.


"They are moving our factories out to Romania, and the
politicians don't even care," says Jean-Michel Proville, 44, a
doctor who says mental health problems form a large part of his
daily work.


Rene Janczak, a 49-year-old technician, voted against the
Maastricht treaty in 1992 and against the constitution referendum
in 2005. Today he says he is tempted by the centrist candidate
for president, Francois Bayrou, the right and the left having in
his eyes failed in power.


Others back the FN's Jean-Marie Le Pen, who speaks out for a
"sovereign" France. Miner's daughter Henriette Humez, 56, for
example, who says she hates the euro, deplores the "death" of
Bully's town centre and rails against her welfare- dependent
neighbours.


"They don't work, they fight and they urinate on the fence," she
says.


Socialist Mayor Francois Lemaire says the "atmosphere in the town
has got worse.... There is a real social drama going on, but I
have no magic wand."


The right-wing opposition accuses the left of presiding over the
town's degradation.


"Something needs to be done to sort out the immigration issue,"
says Robert Mullie, 55, who runs a transport business --
employing several Poles. He says "the most effective" candidate
is the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy.


As for the town's young people, the only issue to count is jobs.


"I am 20 and me and about 20 of my friends are all out of work,"
says Jerome Capet, who waits tables when he can.


"To be honest I don't give a stuff for politics. If it comes to
it, I'll maybe vote for the candidate who does most for the
young. But for now I don't know who it will be," he says.

