

Air Berlin, Germany's second-biggest airline, unveiled Tuesday a
deal to buy charter airline LTU for up to 240 million euros (319
million dollars), marking a further step in its aggressive
expansion in Europe.


Air Berlin, Europe's third-biggest low-cost carrier after Ryanair
and EasyJet, said in a statement it had agreed to buy LTU for 140
million euros in cash, plus the assumption of 190-200 million
euros in net financial debt.


The transaction, which has yet to be approved by the competition
authorities, would be financed through the issuance of new shares
and convertible bonds to the tune of 250 million euros, Air
Berlin said.


LTU would remain a legally independent company within the Air
Berlin group and the LTU brand would be retained "in the
foreseeable future," the statement added.


"With the acquisition of LTU, we are reacting to demands from the
market. Many of our customers ... have been asking us for many
years to start offering long- haul flights. This is now
possible," said chief executive Joachim Hunold.


LTU operates a flight of 15 medium-haul and 11 long-haul aircraft
and its main destinations are the Dominican Republic, the US,
Thailand, the Canary Islands, North Africa and Turkey.


It employs a workforce of 2,244 and transported a total 5.3
million passengers last year.


Air Berlin employs a workforce of 4,000, has a fleet of 93
aircraft and transported a total 16.8 million passengers last
year.


Hunold estimated that the takeover could lead to cost savings of
70-100 million euros each year as a result of joint purchasing
and marketing, flight schedule harmonisation and cost reduction
via volume discounts at airports.


"The acquisition does not aim to curb manpower at LTU," the
chairman continued, while adding that "restructuring measures
cannot be excluded."


LTU's majority shareholder, Hans Rudolf Woehrl, had already
indicated earlier this month that he planned to sell his stake
next year, but he had said that he was negotiating a tie-up with
Condor, the charter airline of Thomas Cook, rather than Air
Berlin.


Air Berlin has embarked on an aggressive expansion since flying
back into profit last year. It went public in May 2006 in order
to raise the necessary financing, took over rival airline DBA and
ordered 60 Boeing jets.


Air Berlin also announced that it planned to buy a 49-percent
stake in Swiss airline, Belair, a subsidiary of the Hotelplan
group, which in turn is owned by Migros.


Financial details were not disclosed.


Belair has a fleet of three aircraft and employs a workforce of
2,960.


Finally, Air Berlin announced that it was changing its code-
sharing partner, with Condor to replace TUIfly.

