

The Tokyo Stock Exchange on Tuesday named as its next president
Atsushi Saito, a former securities house executive who played a
key role in the revitalisation of debt-ridden Japanese companies.


Saito, 67, is a former vice president of Nomura Securities,
Japan's largest brokerage house, who went on to head Japan's
state-backed corporate bailout body for four years until it
disbanded earlier this month.


He replaces Taizo Nishimuro, 71, who moves to the role of
chairman, subject to approval by shareholders at a vote in June.


Saito will be the TSE's third head from a private sector
background. Previously Asia's largest bourse was run by a
succession of former bureaucrats from the finance ministry.


As president of Industrial Revitalisation Corporation of Japan he
helped to turn around struggling firms such as retailer Daiei.


"Mr. Saito is not only knowledgeable of the securities markets
but also insightful and experienced as an international
economist," Nishimuro said as he announced his successor at a
news conference.


Saito will head both the exchange itself and a holding company
that the TSE aims to set up later this year as part of efforts to
maintain its independence as it prepares for a planned stock
market listing of its own in 2009.


He joins the TSE at a difficult time as it seeks to restore
investor confidence after a series of technical mishaps and
scrambles to avoid being left behind in a global race to
consolidate.


Nishimuro took the job of president after his predecessor
resigned following the market turmoil in December 2005 caused by
a trader who punched in a huge erroneous sell order that he was
unable to stop or correct.


Nishimuro also announced the bourse's mid-term business plan with
46.4 billion yen (393 million dollars) allocated for the next
three years to improve its trading systems, including its back-up
system.


"It will be a difficult task to implement the mid-term business
plan, but I have high expectations for Mr. Saito to carry it
out," he said.


The TSE was forced to delay plans for its own stock market
listing after a series of technical glitches.


The TSE suffered its worst-ever system crash in November 2005.
Then in January last year it was forced to close early for the
first time after a scandal at Internet firm Livedoor sparked a
wave of selling.

