

More mergers are expected in global mining as exploration and
development of new resources becomes more expensive and
complicated in an industry boom driven by China and India,
executives said Tuesday.


The need to address the concerns of local communities affected by
the projects, negotiate with governments and explore in remote
areas have led to higher costs, they told an industry conference.


In the latest industry consolidation, Anglo-Swiss miner Xstrata
made a friendly cash bid worth 4.6 billion Canadian dollars (4.0
billion US) for nickel producer LionOre Mining International.


Consolidation has some benefits as it gives the merged entities
the ability to finance bigger projects.


"It is getting more and more difficult to bring new resources on
because they (projects) are getting bigger, they cost more money
and they're in more difficult places," said Bret Clayton, chief
executive for the Copper Group at Anglo-Australian mining giant
Rio Tinto.


"Technically, they are more challenging."


In November, Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold agreed to acquire
US rival Phelps Dodge for 26 billion US dollars to create the
world's largest copper producer.


Growth is likely to continue, despite challenges including the
lack of trained manpower, restrictive regulations and security of
personnel in certain potential sites, executives said.


China's insatiable appetite for steel and other metals, as well
as India's growing needs, are expected to be key drivers, they
added.


"These are very exciting times to be in the mining industry,"
Clayton said.


"People ask how long is this going to last? I say there is
nothing on the horizon that we see right now that seems to show a
stop to this trend."


In Asia, the outlook it also rosy.


"The region Asia is now emerging not only as a great market for
mineral products. It is also emerging as a great potential
supplier for minerals into the world market," said Eric
Finlayson, head of exploration at giant Rio Tinto.


Russia, now an oil and gas exporter, also has vast mineral
resources, he said, adding that even Mongolia has come out of
political isolation.


Rio Tinto has partnered with Vancouver-based Ivanhoe Mines to
develop the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mining complex in Mongolia's
South Gobi region with a potential investment of 1.5 billion US
dollars.


Patrick Highsmith, global manager for exploration at US firm
Newmont Mining Corp, which concentrates on gold, named central
Asia, Russia and nations in the former Soviet Union as having the
best grades of gold ore.


"Geologically, the potential is incredibly high throughout Asia
... (but) the next step is do we see a transparent mining law?
Can we go in there and know what the rules of the game are and
see the playing field clearly?" Highsmith said.

