

American superstar Michael Phelps smashed Ian Thorpe's world
record to overpower Pieter van den Hoogenband in an astonishing
200-metres freestyle performance here Tuesday.


The 21-year-old American carved 0.2secs off Thorpe's 2001 world
mark with a stunning time of one minute 43.86 seconds in one of
his greatest swims against the former Olympic champion.


It was Phelps' second gold medal in an eight-event schedule he is
planning to swim at next year's Beijing Olympics in an attempt to
break Mark Spitz's record seven gold set at the 1972 Munich
Olympics.


Phelps dictated the race and was below world record pace
throughout, making the turn into the final lap half a second
under the record before pulling away from Hoogie in a dynamic
performance.


It was a significant swim by Phelps, who erased Thorpe's name
from the world record which had stood since the 2001 Fukuoka
world championships to confirm his claims as the outstanding
swimmer in the world following the Australian superstar's
retirement late last year.


Phelps finished third behind Thorpe and Hoogie in the event at
the 2004 Athens Olympics, but he obliterated the great Dutchman
with an amazing spurt of acceleration down the final lap to win
by 2.42secs.


Van den Hoogenband was second in 1:46.28 with South Korean
youngster Park Tae- hwan taking the bronze in 1:46.73.


It was the first world record of the Melbourne world
championships and could give Phelps the momentum to go on and
clean up at the titles with six more races to come over the next
five days.


"I just wanted to take it out tonight," Phelps said. "The key was
to get out after the first 100 metres and make a step up on the
third, in the 150, after that it's all adrenaline.


"It still hurt but I'm definitely really excited."


Phelps said he wanted to race Thorpe in the world championships
in Australia, but it was taken away from him with his unexpected
retirement last November.


"I did want to race him, I'm a little disappointed. But I still
got to race one of the best competitors in Pieter. It's
definitely exciting."

