

Flying Dutchman Theo Bos will be among the riders hoping to blaze
a gold medal trail on the freshly-laid Siberian pine boards which
will host the world track cycling championships here.


The four-day competition begins on a note of novelty on Thursday
when the inaugural, five-race omnium event, the team pursuit and
men's individual pursuit are raced in a brand new velodrome on
which the paint is still drying.


Bos, who will shoulder the Netherlands gold medal hopes on his
lithe frame at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, will be hoping to leave
a big impression.


The Dutchman has won three gold medals from the past two
championships and in December confirmed his pre-Olympics form by
setting a new world record of 9.772sec for the 200 metres flying
start.


Britain's Craig MacLean was convincingly dominated in last year's
sprint final in Bordeaux, where Bos also secured gold in the
keirin.


"He (Bos) is still the man to beat," said MacLean, who is part of
a strong British squad which last year claimed one gold, four
silver and a bronze.


"But I still believe that no-one is unbeatable."


MacLean meanwhile could focus most of his energy in the team
sprint, a title he and Britain will be keen to regain after
settling for silver, along with Jamie Staff and Chris Hoy, behind
France last year.


Britain's only gold in Bordeaux came courtesy of Olympic champion
Hoy in the kilometre time trial.


But Hoy, who this year will attempt to better the world record
held by France's Arnaud Tournant, has been forced to rethink his
Olympic ambitions because the kilometre has been axed from the
Olympic programme.


The possibility of another individual Olympic gold, in the
keirin, has given Hoy ideas. He admits there's work to do ahead
of Beijing, meaning his kilometre gold hopes in Palma could
suffer.


"It's certainly an event I have found some success in this year
and is one I have enjoyed," said Hoy, who won the Los Angeles
World Cup round of the often frantic and spectacular race earlier
this season.


"Although not a primary goal for this Worlds, it is an Olympic
event so if things go well, then you never know what could happen
in Beijing.


"I have had to prioritise and the kilometre is not the top one
for the Worlds."


Olympic 4km pursuit champion Bradley Wiggins, and sprint queen
Victoria Pendleton could be Britain's biggest hopes of gold
medals in the competition.


The championships would not be complete without the Australian,
French and Germans, and all three track powers will be keen to
set down markers ahead of next year.


Australia had a comparatively mediocre showing in Bordeaux having
paid, along with Britain, for their efforts in the 2006
Commonwealth Games in Melbourne some weeks previously.


Ryan Bayley, the reigning Olympic and Commonwealth champion in
both the sprint and keirin, failed to make the finals and will
expect to make amends.


While Ben Kersten won silver behind Hoy and Anna Meares won the
time trial silver behind Belarussian Natalia Tsylinskaya, the
Aussies' highlight was beating Britain in the men's team pursuit.


The team pursuit thriller saw Australia regain the team crown
they perhaps covet most, and this Friday's race will allow all
the contenders to see just how they are faring barely 17 months
from their Olympic showdown.


Australia are not known for lying down to a challenge and harbour
plenty of medal hopes in both men's and women's teams.


Bos meanwhile may finally unleash the new, super hi-tech racing
machine on which he will hope to keep on blazing a gold trail in
the speed events.


It will likely be up to Bayley, and French pair Gregory Bauge and
Tournant,  to cool him down.

