

European Union officials warned Tuesday of a surge in illegal
migration to Europe as warm weather returns, with the bloc's
southern borders as well as the eastern frontier at risk.


"We cannot expect migratory pressures on our southern borders to
diminish in the near future," European Commission Vice President
Franco Frattini of Italy, one of the EU countries hardest hit by
a massive wave of illegal migration from Africa, told a
conference at the EU's external border agency, Frontex.


"Demographic data show migration will rise as the population of
the world's 50 least developed countries is expected to double,"
Frattini said.


"The challenges ahead continue to be very important... we must
remain vigilant and also keep a look out for any change of
migratory movements" such as increased pressure from would-be
migrants on Europe's eastern borders.


German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, whose country
currently holds the EU presidency, also warned of an imminent
surge in illegal migration.


"This spring, we will again be confronted with increasing
migratory flows via the Mediterranean to Europe and the related
risks for the lives of many people," Schaeuble said.


"It is of paramount importance to cooperate closely on migration
issues with the countries of origin and transit along the EU's
southern and eastern borders," he added.


"At the same time the surveillance of Europe's external borders
should be intensified, not only because of the migratory pressure
along the southern borders but also given future scenarios of
eastern European migratory flows and the developments at air
borders.


"European border management agency Frontex has shown that it can
effectively support member states in coping with this task,"
Schaeuble told the conference, held at the inauguration of the EU
agency's new headquarters building in Warsaw.


Frontex went into operation in October 2005, with a brief to
coordinate the efforts of individual member states to secure the
EU's external borders.


The agency has been particularly active in the eastern
Mediterranean and off the coast of western Africa, from where
thousands of illegal migrants set sail each year for Spain's
Canary Islands on board unseaworthy boats.

