

Former Miss World Aishwarya Rai will marry actor boyfriend
Abhishek Bachchan next month in one of the most high-profile
Indian weddings of the year, reports said Tuesday.


The ceremony will be held on April 20 at the Bachchan residence
in Mumbai, where the country's Hindi-language film industry is
based, the Times of India reported on its front page.


Calls to Rai's media manager and the Bachchan household for
comment went unanswered.


"The wedding will be a small, private affair with only close
family and friends in attendance, and it will be held at the
Bachchans' residence," the    Press Trust of India quoted an
unnamed source as saying.


The two families have opted for a discreet wedding with a guest
list numbering around 15 as the groom's grandmother is unwell,
the Times of India said.


Rai, a leading Bollywood actress, and Bachchan, son of legendary
screen icon Amitabh Bachchan, got engaged on January 14, capping
months of media speculation about their relationship.


The couple have been dubbed "Abhiash," a melding of their two
names in the fashion of "Brangelina" for Brad Pitt and Angelina
Jolie.


Rai is widely regarded as one of the most beautiful women in the
world and Bachchan, who is one of Bollywood's leading men, was
voted the sexiest Asian man by a British newspaper last year.


Both had been previously linked to other Bollywood actors.


The expected sober tone of the wedding will contrast with the
opulent marriage ceremony of British model Elizabeth Hurley and
her businessman husband Arun Nayar in India earlier this month.


Hurley and Nayar hosted a series of lavish parties in the lead-up
to the wedding at a former maharaja's palace in Jodhpur, which
sparked a media frenzy.


Astrologers declared April 20 an "auspicious" date for Rai and
Bachchan.


"The date is free of bad combinations... and considered
auspicious for starting any new venture," said New Delhi
astrologer Naveen Khanna, according to the Times of India.


Astrologers are traditionally consulted in India before setting a
wedding date or for any other important occasion.


Rai and Bachchan struck up a friendship while acting in their
first Bollywood movie together seven years ago.


Their latest film "Dhoom 2" was the highest grossing Bollywood
movie last year, collecting 1.65 billion rupees (37 million
dollars) at the box office.

