

Gun and mortar attacks killed at least 13 Iraqis on Tuesday,
including women and children, as insurgent attacks homed in on
the war-torn capital, security officials said.


Two mortar rounds slammed into the capital's Abu Chir
neighbourhood, part of the southern militant stronghold of Dura
where Iraqi and US forces have been concentrated under a massive
new security crackdown, two officials said.


Two children, a man and a woman were killed from separate
families, while another 14 people, again women and children
included, were ferried to hospital with injuries from the attack,
the sources said.


A roadside bomb attack killed an Iraqi policeman in southeast
Baghdad, while another police officer was killed in a gun attack
in the heart of the capital.


A local soldier was killed by an insurgent sniper in central
Baghdad and four civilians were hospitalised following a mortar
attack near the finance ministry, also in the heart of the
capital, a security official said.


South of Baghdad, another four people perished in Iskandiriyah
when unidentified gunmen opened fire on a Sunni Muslim funeral
cortege, said Iraqi army officer Mohammed al-Tahi.


Iskandiriyah, a majority Sunni Arab town, has been rocked by a
series of attacks in recent days. The US military announced that
five Iraqi civilians were killed and another 11 wounded by mortar
attacks in the town on Monday.


Iraqi and American troops also battled insurgents firing guns and
a rocket- propelled grenade from a nearby Al-Wasafa mosque on
Monday, in a fight that pockmarked the mosque walls with bullet
holes and killed one insurgent.


Meanwhile, two elderly Armenian women who had lived in Kirkuk for
years were shot dead when gunmen broke into their house early
Tuesday in the restive northern oil capital of Kirkuk, said
police Captain Imad Jassim.


One of the women was aged 80 and the other in her 60s, the
officer said.


Mass emigration has seen Iraq's Christian community slump to
around 700,000, out of a total population of 27 million.

