

Developing Asia's fast-growing economies will slow this year
after a blistering 2006 but still face risks from overheating and
inflexible exchange rates, the Asian Development Bank said
Tuesday.


Sizzling China and India will continue to set the pace, although
the region's growth will ease to 7.6 percent this year after an
11-year high of 8.3 percent in 2006, the ADB said in its annual
outlook report.


The expected slowdown is mainly due to a more moderate expansion
in the major industrialised economies but growth should pick up
slightly to 7.7 percent in 2008, the Manila-based development
bank said.


Red-hot China will continue to set the pace although policy curbs
and softer external demand should limit its expansion to 10
percent in 2007 and 9.8 percent in 2008 after 10.7 percent last
year.


While the regional outlook remains upbeat, the developing
economies should act swiftly to tackle areas of overheating
resulting from the very rapid rate of growth in 2006, said ADB
chief economist Ifzal Ali.


Fast growth was fuelling sharp increases in house, equity and
consumer prices. The huge foreign currency reserves built up in
developing Asia were also inflating money supply, risking asset
market bubbles, he said.


"These overheating pressures which are simmering will need to be
addressed," Ali warned.


"I think the time has now come for developing Asian countries to
take a more open view on allowing greater flexibility in exchange
rates," he added.


A stronger currency usually makes imports cheaper, thus
encouraging domestic consumption while dampening export growth.


Falling oil prices and monetary tightening should help to take
some steam out of the economies but unless their currencies are
allowed to rise, interest rates will have to go up, choking off
investment, Ali said.


In India, steps taken by the central bank to cool inflation are
expected to slow the pace of investment and consumption spending,
the ADB said.


Indian economic growth is seen easing to 8.0 percent this year
and 8.3 percent next, after 9.2 percent in 2006. South Asia as a
whole will see growth ease to 7.7 percent and 8.0 percent from
8.7 percent in 2006.


"As output growth gently slows in industrial countries, there
will be modest knock-on effects in developing Asia," the ADB
report said.


"Although growth in most other countries will come off the pace
set in 2006, the region's economic pulse remains strong," it
said.


Southeast Asia's growth will slow to 5.6 percent this year and
5.9 percent in 2008 after 6.0 percent in 2006.


The ADB said prospects were now "much more uncertain" in certain
countries like post-coup Thailand, where consumer and business
confidence is slipping and growth is expected to slow in 2007
after capital controls in December unsettled markets.


Thai growth will likely fall to 4.0 percent this year and be back
at 5.0 percent in 2008, its 2006 rate.


The ADB also said developing Asia should also make better use of
its foreign exchange reserves which are together worth almost 2.3
trillion dollars.


Ali said about half of that could be invested in higher yielding
assets -- believed to be mostly US-dollar instruments -- than at
present, with the returns used to pay down debt or invest in
infrastructure and other projects.


"The potential is there," said Ali. "It is a question of
realising risk in an orderly and in a prudent manner. It is a
step, I think, which all countries in the region will move
towards in the next few years."

