

The Ferrari F1 team are top favourites in the hot climes of
Malaysia after Finland's Kimi Raikkonen won in the season-opener
in Australia, a rival race driver said Tuesday.


"It looks like Ferrari is on a completely different planet,"
Robert Kubica, the 22-year-old BMW Sauber driver told reporters
on the sidelines of a three-day testing here ahead of the April 8
Malaysian Grand Prix.


"I think McLaren and Ferrari ... especially Ferrari is not our
target. We have to be realistic. If I can finish top five, I will
be happy," he added.


Finland's Kimi Raikkonen led from start to finish at Melbourne
and immediately put to rest doubts about his abilities to fit
into seven-times world champion Michael Schumacher's shoes at
Ferrari.


It was the 27-year-old Finn's first Australian triumph after
three podium finishes with his previous McLaren team in 2002-03
and last year.


But despite Ferrari's dominance, resurgent McLaren took an early
advantage in the constructors' title with 14 points to Ferrari's
13 after the second Ferrari driver, Felipe Massa, fought his way
from the eighth row on the grid to finish sixth.


Ten drivers tested their machines under the tropical heat at
Sepang. Among them was Raikkonen, who set the sixth-fastest time
of 1:37.407 seconds during the early test session with 17 laps.


Williams' Alexander Wurz dominated the session with the best lap
time of 1:36.612 in 43 laps, while Kubica was 0.411 seconds
behind.


Other drivers that tested their cars included Rubens Barrichello
(Honda), Pedro De La Rosa (McLaren), Franck Montagny (Toyota),
Takuma Sato (Super Aguri), David Coulthard (Red Bull) and Nelson
Piquet (Renault).


Drives mainly concentrated on the set-up of their machines and
monitored tyre performance, which would be a key factor for
winning at Sepang.


Kubica said the testing at Sepang was crucial because in contrast
to the cold climate of Australia, the heat here would put extra
strain on tyres and cars, not to mention drivers.


"The test here allows the car and the driver to acclimatise to
this heat," he said.


The break between the Australian GP and Malaysia GP is an
unusually long one. There is an extra week between races, but
even with 11 days to go, the teams are hoping to fix their
problems and jump into the race again.


Kubica said he hoped to solve the gearbox problem faced in
Australia.


"We have to solve the problem this week. But we already faced a
small problem this morning. There was some gearbox problem," he
said.


But Kubica said he was confident the BMW Sauber F1 car will be
ready for the race next weekend, adding that "we hope for at
least one podium finish this year for me."


Bahrain is this year's third race, on April 15.


Sole supplier Bridgestone is providing tyres for the testing
session.

