

Iraq's government does not need a "diktat" from the Arabs on how
to amend its constitution and boost national reconciliation,
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said on Tuesday.


"Amendment of the constitution is an obligation written in the
text of the constitution, and we are determined to do it without
waiting to be told," Zebari told AFP.


Arab foreign ministers meeting ahead of an Arab summit in Riyadh
agreed on Monday to call for an amendment of Iraq's constitution
to give Sunni Arabs a greater share of power in the war-ravaged
country and prevent its breakup.


The call came in a draft resolution to be submitted to Arab heads
of state starting their annual summit on Wednesday.


"We have obligations toward our people and we know them. We don't
need a diktat from Arab countries. We tell them (Arab states)
that the idea of national reconciliation is ours, not yours,"
Zebari said.


The Iraqi government has initiated moves to review the de-
Baathification law, he added.


The Arab foreign ministers also called on Monday for "reviewing
the de- Baathification law in order to enhance the national
reconciliation process in Iraq", according to one minister.


What Iraq does need from fellow Arab states is their help in
"fighting terrorism and controlling the borders to stop arms
crossing" into the country, said Zebari, who is a Kurd.


Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani
on Monday sent to the cabinet a new de-Baathification law aimed
at promoting national reconciliation, the premier's office said.


Under a controversial de-Baathification law, tens of thousands of
members of Iraq's former ruling Baath party were stripped of
their posts in government, at universities and in business after
the 2003 US-led invasion.


The law has been a major source of grievance for the minority
Sunnis, who have waged a deadly insurgency against US troops and
the Shiite-led, American-backed government in Baghdad.


Iraq's once-ruling Sunnis also want an amendment of the federal
constitution adopted in October 2005.


They fear the arrangement leaves their central regions without
natural resources and Iraq's oil wealth in the hands of the
governing Shiites and the autonomous Kurds.


Maliki was not due to accompany Talabani to the Arab summit.

