

Sudan's two main governing parties have renewed their commitment
to peace and vowed never to resume the north-south war that
plagued Africa's largest country for two decades.


President Omar al-Beshir's National Congress and First Vice
President Salva Kiir's Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM)
made the pledge late Monday after a three-day meeting of their
leaderships.


"Both parties pledge to implement the peace deal and never to
revert to war for whatever reason," said a joint statement.


Beshir's party and the former rebel SPLM signed a peace deal in
January 2005 ending a 21-year civil war that had left around 1.5
million people dead and four million displaced.


The former foes then joined forces in a national unity government
but tension has simmered since as implementation of some major
points of the peace agreement has fallen behind schedule.


The statement said both parties vowed "to resort to dialogue to
overcome the challenges they face in implementing the peace
deal."


The agreement's provisions on wealth-sharing have been
paricularly contentious and the signatories remain at odds over
the fate of some oil-rich areas straddling the north-south
border.


The four-year-old violence in the western region of Darfur has
also driven a wedge between the governing coalition partners.


While Beshir -- whose regime stands accused of genocide by
Washington over Darfur -- has always rejected any UN
intervention, Kiir's SPLM has openly said it would welcome UN
troops.


Beshir has also been adamant he would not comply with a demand by
the International Criminal Court to bring Darfur war crimes
suspects to justice, while some members of the SPLM adopted a
more conciliatory tone.


Monday's joint statement said both sides promised to "step up
efforts to find a solution to the Darfur problem, which is a
priority issue."


According to the UN, at least 200,000 people have been killed
since the fighting erupted in Darfur in February 2003, also
prompting the world's worst ongoing humanitarian crisis.


Only one rebel faction signed a peace deal with Khartoum in May
2006 but the agreement failed to make an impact. Rebel splinter
groups has since flourished and violence continued unabated.


Kiir, who recently met non-signatory rebel leaders in Chad,
announced his intention to invite them to Juba, the capital of
south Sudan, in a bid to relaunch the moribund peace process.


The SPLM and some Darfur rebel factions have historical links and
Kiir has stepped up his mediation efforts.


Darfur rebels, who launched their uprising in a bid to obtain a
greater share of the country's resources, seek a similar
settlement to that obtained by the SPLM in the semi-autonomous
south.

