

American great Mark Spitz Tuesday attacked world governing body
FINA for not switching the Melbourne world championships program
to morning finals to fall in line with the Beijing Olympics.


The International Olympic Committee last October caved in to US
television rights holder NBC which had been lobbying hard for
early finals to coincide with peak evening viewing hours in the
United States.


Spitz, who won a record seven gold medals at the Munich Olympics,
said it was ludicrous the needs of the athletes were not put
ahead of revenue.


"Shame on FINA that they are not running the meet like that now,"
Spitz told reporters here at the world swimming championships.


"It seems like the athlete is always at the tail end of
(negotiations) and I find it disgusting and despicable that the
athletes are not taken care of and provided a platform to be able
to compete in a similar scenario that they are going to have to
in the Olympics next year.


"(IOC) made an announcement long enough and far enough in
advance, longer than a year, so that all the sports can get used
to and adapt to some of this and they should be starting to adapt
now.


"We don't have any other major meets after this that (are)
meaningful enough to put that kind of pressure on the athlete to
understand the concept of having to perform in the morning.


"It would have been advantageous to be able to adapt to this
program now.


"(FINA) are the ones that have the answers and if they're
refusing to give the answers then they are just hiding under
their own skin."


Spitz said it was ridiculous for swimmers who have spent careers
preparing to race in the evening to suddenly be forced to perform
equally well in the morning.


"My whole life has been based around the fact I don't do as well
in the morning," he said.


"It was always fortunate of me just to make it into the finals."


Spitz said American superstar Michael Phelps, who is planning to
chase Spitz's seven gold medal record in Beijing, will suffer
most from the schedule change because events will now be dragged
out over three days.


The Beijing program has yet to be released but it is likely
swimming heats will be in the evening, semi-finals next morning
and the finals the following morning - totalling three days for
one event.


Spitz said it was likely to be a tough program, but is hopeful
Phelps can equal his Munich 1972 record.


"I hope I live long enough to see it happen," he said.


"Records are made to be broken.


"I think it's great for the sport (athletes comt fascinating
myself.


"I think Michael Phelps does have a chance. But just as the same
happened for me, a lot of things have to go right."

