

India's cricket chiefs rallied around captain Rahul Dravid and
coach Greg Chappell on Tuesday even as they moved to probe the
team's World Cup debacle.


The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has called
former captains for a brainstorming session on April 6 and 7 that
will also hear Chappell's views on the team's dismal performance
in the Caribbean.


India, the 1983 champions and 2003 finalists, failed to advance
to the Super Eights round after losing two of their three matches
in group B of the preliminary stage.


India were stunned by Bangladesh in their first match, then
hammered first- timers Bermuda in the second before losing a
must-win game against Sri Lanka to bow out of the tournament.


It was India's worst World Cup performance since the second
edition in 1979 in England, where they had also won just one
match.


Inderjit Bindra, a former BCCI president and still one of its
most influential members, rubbished media speculation that the
board had already decided to sack both Chappell and Dravid.


"We are all disappointed but I can promise you there will be no
knee-jerk reaction," Bindra told reporters.


"We will hear both Chappell and Dravid and see how best we can
find a long-term solution. By making sweeping changes we are not
going to improve Indian cricket overnight.


Chappell, a former Australian captain, has served as India's
coach for a two- year term that was due to end after the World
Cup.


The Indian media predicted that Chappell would either be sacked
from the job or quit on his own after returning from the
Caribbean this week.


"The meeting next week has been called to essentially extend our
support to the team in this hour of despair," Bindra said.


"We are appalled at the manner in which the media, especially TV
channels, has reacted to the team's early exit, and the BCCI
cannot just sit back and allow the players to be torn apart in
public.


"The team never claimed it would come back with the World Cup. To
suit their commercial interests, some of these TV channels first
created unprecedented hype and now have been behaving in a
regrettable manner."


Bindra was referring to extensive coverage of publicity-seeking
stunts like street demonstrations, effigy burning and mock
funerals of cricketers that took place around the country last
week.


India must quickly settle the captaincy and coach issues since
the team travels to Bangladesh in May for a three-week tour
comprising two Tests and three one- day internationals.


The BCCI has finalised a gruelling schedule for the team till
March next year that includes a minimum of 15 Tests and 42 one-
day internationals around the world.


It remains to be seen if senior players like Sachin Tendulkar,
Dravid and Sourav Ganguly will continue playing limited-overs
cricket.


Veteran spinner Anil Kumble, India's most successful bowler in
both forms of the game, had said before the World Cup that he
would quit one-dayers after the tournament to concentrate on Test
matches.

