

Philippine President Gloria Arroyo Tuesday welcomed offers by the
European Union and the US to help solve a spate of political
murders in the country and "break the cycle of violence."


The president also welcomed a US offer to deploy forensics and
other experts to help authorities solve the more than 800 murders
of activists, journalists, church workers and members of the
judiciary in the past six years.


Local rights groups allege the killings were carried out by
elements within the armed forces, a claim repeated by a UN
special rapporteur Philip Alston, who visited the Philippines
last month, and backed up by a government inquiry.


"We have a sorry history in our nation of political violence. We
aim to break this cycle of violence once and for all," Arroyo
told a gathering of Asian newspaper publishers.


"We welcome the fielding of an EU team ... to help our law
enforcers get to the roots of this crime," she said.


Arroyo said she had "no tolerance for human rights violations"
and directly blamed the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP)
for the deaths.


"It must be said that the CPP and their armed insurgents must
also put down their arms and cease their mindless murders,"
Arroyo said.


The European Union said Monday it would dispatch experts to help
Philippine authorities solve the murders, which have drawn the
attention of the international community.


The CPP and its armed wing, the New People's Army (NPA), have
been waging a Maoist insurgency since 1969, one of Asia's
longest-running communist rebellions.


Despite the criticism of Alston and the impending visits of EU
and US investigating teams, the presidential human rights
committee said it did not expect the Philippines to suffer any
sanctions over the killings.


Foreign Undersecretary Coco Quisumbing said Alston would make his
final report on his investigation in the Philippines in Geneva
later in the day, but it was "unlikely that the report ... will
result in any sanctions."


She said there was no threat to cut assistance to the country,
adding "so much of the concern (over the issue) is positive.
They're worried but (they) want to help us solve (the problem.)


"We're very confident that assistance is not in any danger but is
going to increase," with developed countries helping the
Philippines boost its capability to investigate and prosecute
human rights abuses, Quisumbing said.


This showed that foreign governments recognised that the
Philippines was doing something about the problem.


She noted that in the wake of Alston's visit last month, the
Philippine military itself had established an office to
investigate extrajudicial killings by its forces and had already
brought three cases to court.


Quisumbing said the rash of investigations did not mean the
situation in the Philippines had suddenly worsened.


"It's a pack mentality. When something is hot, everyone wants to
get involved," she said.

