

A Saudi prince goes on trial in his absence Wednesday accused of
using his diplomatic immunity to smuggle two tonnes of cocaine
into France.


Prince Nayef Bin Fawaz Al-Shaalan is one of 10 people facing
charges relating to a shipment that allegedly arrived on his
private Boeing 727 at a Paris airport eight years ago.


None of the accused, who include three Colombian drug-traffickers
already convicted in the affair in the United States, will be
present in the courtroom in the Paris suburb of Bobigny.


The hearing is expected to last less than a day, with a verdict
scheduled for a future date.


Prince Nayef, a grandson of Saudi Arabia's founding monarch
Abdulaziz, is alleged to have made contacts with Colombia's
Medellin cartel via a woman whom he met while studying at the
University of Miami in the early 1980s.


According to the prosecution, in May 1999 he arranged for the
cocaine to be packed in briefcases and flown with him to Le
Bourget airport outside Paris where it was picked up by aides. As
he had diplomatic status, customs officers did not inspect the
baggage.


A few days later French police acting on a tip-off found a large
quantity of cocaine at a house in the Paris suburb of Noisy-le-
Sec and began their investigation.


In 2005 a Miami court handed down several convictions in the
affair, using evidence supplied by the three Columbians who had
entered a plea-bargain with the prosecution. The same evidence
forms the basis of the French case.


Prince Nayef's lawyer Jacques Verges is expected to argue that
his client is the victim of a conspiracy hatched in the US.


"The court is being asked to convict a man who has never been
seen or interviewed here, and who is accused on the basis of
statements by men who the French justice system has not seen or
interviewed either," said Verges, who specialises in high-profile
briefs.


Le Monde newspaper reported Tuesday that the affair is being
watched closely by French diplomats, who fear it could have
repercussions on relations with Saudi Arabia.

