

Thailand's cabinet Tuesday approved a free trade agreement with
Japan, clearing the way for the deal to be signed when army-
installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont visits Tokyo next
week, officials said.


"The cabinet has approved the Thailand-Japan free trade
agreement, so Prime Minister Surayud can go ahead and sign the
agreement," Pisan Manawapat, Thailand's chief negotiator on the
deal, told reporters.


"The signing ceremony will take place on April 2 in Tokyo," he
added.


Negotiations on the deal were completed last year, and former
prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra had been set to sign it in
September.


But Thaksin was ousted in a coup on September 19, leaving the
agreement in limbo.


After the coup, activists raised new concerns about provisions
that would allow Japan to send toxic waste to Thailand and to
patent genetically modified micro- organisms.


The cabinet on Tuesday rejected the activists' concerns and
approved the deal in its original form, after reassurances from
Japan that it would not turn Thailand into a dumping ground for
toxic waste.


Japan is the biggest foreign investor in Thailand. The free trade
deal is seen as key to the kingdom's goal of transforming itself
into the "Detroit of the East" by continuing to woo major
investments from Japanese automakers.


Dozens of activists from the anti-free trade group FTA Watch
protested against the deal outside Surayud's offices.


The group was among the loose coalition of activists that led
street protests against Thaksin last year, eventually leading to
the coup.


"This agreement is not transparent, lacked public participation
and is full of conflicts of interest," the group said in a flyer.


"By signing this deal, the prime minister and his cabinet will go
down in our country's history as the government that caused the
most damage to Thailand. It's as bad as, or even worse than prime
minister Thaksin Shinawatra," it said.


Thailand imports more from Japan than from any other country and
counts on Japan as the second biggest market for its exports,
largely agricultural products.


Under the deal, Japan and Thailand agreed that more than 90
percent of bilateral trade should be tariff-free in 10 years and
Bangkok vowed to step up transparency and legal protections to
help Japanese investors.


Both sides made some concessions but maintained reservations on
two heavily protected sectors -- automobiles for Thailand and
agriculture for Japan.

