

The fate of an 8.9 billion US dollar takeover bid for Qantas
remained in the balance Tuesday after two institutional investors
unveiled significant shareholdings in the Australian airline.


Deutsche Bank said Tuesday it had purchased an 8.4 percent stake
in the airline, hot on the heels of Swiss investment bank UBS
informing the market late Monday that it had increased its
shareholding from 8.94 to 10.4 percent.


The private equity consortium bidding for Qantas needs
shareholders holding at least 90 percent of the stock to accept
its 5.45 Australian dollars (4.39 US dollars) a share offer for
Australia's iconic Flying Kangaroo.


One institutional investor, Balanced Equity Management, has
already said it will use its 4.0 percent holding to vote against
the deal, meaning either Deutsche or UBS could sink the plan if
they deem the current price inadequate.


UBS is also reportedly concerned about the offer but neither it
nor Deutsche Bank have made any statement to the Australian
Stocks Exchange indicating how they will vote on the takeover.


Aequs Securities head of institutional trading Ric Klusman said
he believed UBS was angling for a higher offer, adding that it
and Deutsche would most likely sell a significant portion of
their shareholdings if the deal failed.


"You can imagine what that will do to the share price," Klusman
said.


The private equity consortium behind the bid, Airline Partners
Australia (APA), offered no update Tuesday on figures released
Friday that owners of 29 percent of Qantas shares had accepted
its offer.


APA released a statement late Sunday downplaying the impact of
Balanced Equity Management's rejection of its offer, which is
worth 11.1 billion Australian dollars.


"The fact that one institutional shareholder has declined the
offer in no way deters us from successfully completing this
transaction with the overwhelming majority of shareholders who
support it," it said.


"APA is actively considering a range of options to ensure
successful completion of its offer and will continue to keep the
market informed."


Qantas shares closed up six cents or 1.2 percent at 5.15 dollars
in  an overall market that was down 0.44 percent.


The Qantas board has unanimously backed the APA takeover bid.


If successful, Qantas will be 27 percent owned by Australia's
Allco Equity Partners while related Allco Finance Group Ltd will
have eight percent.


Leading Australian investment bank Macquarie will have about 15
percent, US buyout firm Texas Pacific 25 percent, Canada's Onex
Corp 12.5 percent, other foreign investors 11.5 percent and
Qantas management one percent.


Analysts have upgraded their expectations for Qantas since the
takeover bid was launched late last year and the airline itself
expects this year's annual net profit to be up to 40 percent
higher than the previous year.

