

Asia's developing economies must act quickly to contain
overheating and move towards more flexible currencies to ensure
sustainable growth, the Asian Development Bank's chief economist
said Tuesday.


"Macro-economic stabilisation is the immediate priority," Ifzal
Ali said as the ADB unveiled its annual outlook report
forecasting robust growth for developing Asia of 7.6 percent in
2007 and 7.7 percent in 2008.


"To stay on this high growth path, Asian countries will have to
quickly address macro-economic stresses that are arising because
of the very rapid (8.3 percent) rate of growth in 2006," he told
reporters in Tokyo.


Fast growth was fuelling sharp increases in house, equity and
consumer prices. The huge foreign currency reserves built up in
developing Asia were also inflating their money supplies, leading
to asset market bubbles, he said.


"These overheating pressures which are simmering will need to be
addressed," Ali warned.


"I think the time has now come for developing Asian countries to
take a more open view on allowing greater flexibility in exchange
rates," he added.


Falling oil prices and monetary tightening should help to take
some steam out of the economies but unless their currencies are
allowed to rise, interest rates will have to go up, choking off
investment, Ali said.


The ADB economist said developing Asia should also make better
use of its foreign exchange reserves which are together worth
almost 2.3 trillion dollars.


He said about half of that could be invested in higher yielding
assets than at present -- believed to be mostly US-dollar
instruments -- with the returns used to pay down debt or invest
in infrastructure and other projects.


One country that already has a policy of actively managing its
reserves is Singapore, which set up an investment management
company in 1981.


"The potential is there," said Ali. "It is a question of
realising risk in an orderly and in a prudent manner. It is a
step, I think, which all countries in the region will move
towards in the next few years."


East Asia as a whole will see growth of 8.0 percent this year and
next following 8.7 percent in 2006, the Manila-based ADB said.


China's growth will ease to 10 percent in 2007 and 9.8 percent in
2008 after 10.7 percent last year, Ali said, but noted that the
Chinese economy had turned in a better than expected performances
often in the past.

