

Malaysia Tuesday announced a further relaxation of policies
favouring ethnic Malays as part of efforts to attract foreign
funds into its growing Islamic banking sector.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said Malaysia would relax
rules imposed by the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC) on local
and foreign Islamic financial institutions applying for licenses
to conduct business in foreign currencies.


FIC rules include stipulations that Malays and indigenous groups
or bumiputras must hold at least 30 percent of a company.


Malaysia will "relax Foreign Investment Committee rules to allow
100 percent foreign equity ownership in Islamic financial
institutions established under this arrangement," Abdullah told
bankers and government officials.


"Such institutions are also allowed to acquire properties for
their own use," he added in a keynote address to an Islamic
finance forum here.


The announcement follows a similar move last week to relax the
politically- sensitive racial policies in a bid to draw
investment to the southern state of Johor.


FIC rules include enforced bumiputra participation in Malaysia's
economy so companies applying for a listing, for example, must
show that 30 percent of the shares are owned or allocated for
bumiputras, among other conditions.


Malaysia since the 1970s has maintained positive discrimination
measures for bumiputra -- literally sons of the soil -- to narrow
a wealth gap with the minority but economically-dominant Chinese
community.


Other changes announced by Abdullah include a 10-year exemption
on stamp duty on the institutions' foreign currency instruments,
as well as instruments related to ringgit and foreign currency
Islamic securities.


Foreigners who invest in non-ringgit Islamic securities,
including Islamic bonds issued in Malaysia, will be exempt from
withholding tax on any profits or income, Abdullah said.


He said Malaysia will also recognise approved interpretations of
Sharia or Islamic law in Islamic finance, in a reference to
differing interpretations between Southeast Asia and the Middle
East.


"In order to fulfil our objectives concerning the development of
Islamic finance, it is imperative that we transcend geography,
race, culture and religous edicts," said Abdullah.


Malaysian central bank governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said the moves
were aimed at attracting foreign Islamic financial institutions
and staking a position in the foreign currency sector.


The institutions "don't have a presence in our system and this is
a way for them to enter our system," Zeti told reporters.


"The foreign currency business is growing because our
corporations are going overseas and people now have a more
liberalised foreign exchange administration environment," she
said.

