

A banking dispute that stalled North Korean nuclear disarmament
talks could be resolved in a few days despite complex technical
problems, the chief US envoy to the negotiations said Monday.


The US Treasury is working with Beijing to transfer 25 million
dollars frozen in 2005 in Macau's Banco Delta Asia, which the
United States suspects are North Korea's proceeds from
counterfeiting and money laundering.


Christopher Hill, the top US envoy to the six-party nuclear
talks, said that based on his discussions with a senior US
Treasury official in Beijing the dispute could end this week,
paving the way for North Korea to shut down its main nuclear
reactor and allowing back into the country UN International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors.


"As we get through this banking issue -- I believe we will in the
next couple of days -- North Korea will have further discussions
with the IAEA and by the early part of April -- certainly by the
first half of April -- we will have the reactor shut down, sealed
and we will have international inspectors back," Hill told a
Washington forum.


Pyongyang has agreed to admit IAEA inspectors as part of an
agreement by the United States, Russia, China, the two Koreas and
Japan on February 13 setting a timetable for the North to begin
disarming.


The US effectively blacklisted the Macau bank on suspicion it was
handling the proceeds of North Korean counterfeiting and money-
laundering, but Washington cleared the way for the release of the
funds as part of the nuclear accord.


However, the fund's designated recipient, state-owned Bank of
China, has allegedly refused to accept the money for fear the
transaction may hurt its credit rating.


The latest round of six-party disarmament talks ended abruptly in
Beijing on Thursday after Pyongyang refused to negotiate until it
received the cash.


In Tokyo, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso said Tuesday a
resumption of talks was "extremely likely" once North Korea gets
the money.


"I think the six-way talks could resume next week as I heard that
transferring the funds will be complete in the next couple of
days," he told reporters.


Daniel Glaser, the US Treasury's deputy assistant secretary for
terrorist financing and financial crimes, flew to Beijing at the
weekend and held talks with officials from China's foreign
ministry, the central bank and the country's banking industry
regulator in a bid to break the financial impasse.


Glaser and his delegation met with North Korean officials at
Pyongyang's embassy in Beijing late Monday to discuss how to
implement last week's deal, his spokeswoman said.


"We are committed to working through this issue as quickly as
possible," spokeswoman Molly Millerwise said without giving
further details of the discussions or saying when a resolution
was likely.


Earlier in Washington, Hill said he had talked to Glaser.


"He is working very hard but it is a difficult process and there
are a lot of technical problems which were unforeseen by
everybody, including me," Hill told reporters after the forum.


"But we want to get it done so that the North Koreans will have
no excuse" but to shut down the Yongbyon reactor by the middle of
April as scheduled.


Hill stressed that the United States had done everything possible
for North Korea to end its nuclear weapons program and warned
Pyongyang that if it turned down the latest deal, it would face
the wrath of the international community.


"If the North Koreans turn down this process, if they ultimately
don't want to denuclearize, we can try another path," he said.


"When we do try another path, we won't be alone. We will be with
a lot of other countries that have seen we have done all we can
do," he said. "It is now up to the North Koreans."

