

Tamil Tiger rebels Tuesday drove a tractor and trailer loaded
with explosives on a suicide mission into an army camp in eastern
Sri Lanka, killing at least eight people, a day after their
spectacular first ever air raid.


Ten people were also wounded in the attack on the Chenkaladi army
camp, a military official in the area said.


The attack came a day after the Tigers carried out their first
air raid, using single-engined planes to bomb a military air base
adjacent to Sri Lanka's only international airport and killing
three airmen and wounding 16 others.


Two separate teams are investigating the air strike -- an
embarrassing blow to the country's defence establishment -- and
President Mahinda Rajapakse also held an emergency meeting with
political party leaders here on Monday night.


"The air power of a frenzied and desperate organisation as the
LTTE is a grave threat aimed not only to Sri Lanka but also to
the entire South Asian region," the president's office said in a
joint statement.


It said political parties in Sri Lanka urged the international
community to "make a proper assessment of this very real danger."


The Tigers said the military carried out retaliatory air strikes
inside rebel- held territory on Monday afternoon, but there were
no casualties.


Tuesday's suicide bombing was in the coastal district of
Batticaloa where government forces have been conducting intensive
operations against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
since December.


The office of the Eelam People's Democratic Party (EPDP), a pro-
government Tamil party which cooperates with security forces, was
also destroyed.


"Two soldiers and four EPDP men were killed and about 10 wounded
at the camp," a military official in Batticaloa told AFP. "There
are two other bodies to be identified."


Military sources said the Tigers had tried to stage a similar
suicide bombing against Chenkaladi last week, but that had failed
because the explosives had gone off prematurely.


Chenkaladi was attacked last week together with three other
military camps in Batticaloa district, leaving four soldiers dead
and 30 wounded, according to the military.


There was no immediate word from the Tigers about the latest
attack.


Relief workers also raised fresh concerns for the safety of
civilians in Batticaloa as more people fled their homes and
sought the safety of public buildings to avoid getting caught in
the cross fire between troops and rebels.


At least 150,000 people have been internally displaced within the
district, where troops and Tamil Tiger rebels have been trading
long-range attacks for weeks.


Security forces have vowed to flush out the Tigers from the
restive eastern region after the military captured the key Tiger
bastion of Vakarai earlier in January after several weeks of
intense battles.


Troops have also tried to capture a jungle base known as
Thoppigala from the Tigers, who are fighting for an independent
homeland for the island's ethnic Tamil minority.


More than 60,000 people have been killed in Sri Lanka's Tamil
separatist campaign since 1972. The two sides agreed to a truce
in February 2002, but subsequent peace talks have broken down.

