

The new commander of US forces in the Middle East said there was
a "sniff of progress" in efforts to pacify Iraq but that the
United States appeared to be facing its last chance for success
there.


The deployment of extra US troops and the naming of new top
officials have given what seems to be a last opportunity for
success, Admiral William Fallon told ABC television on Monday.


"We've got a lot of things lined up right now to make us
successful and I think we're going to be unlikely to have this
opportunity again," Fallon said, insisting that "We've got to
take it, make the best of it and be successful."


"We're seeing a sniff of progress right now in the last several
weeks but we need to really move (on this) because I think we're
not going to get another opportunity," he said.


President George W. Bush announced a last-ditch effort to pacify
Iraq in January with a plan to send 21,500 extra combat troops to
curb violence in Baghdad and the Al-Anbar province.


Fallon, who replaced General John Abizaid as head of the US
Central Command, said the level of sectarian strife had declined
that there was a drop in the number of killings and injuries.


With a debate raging in the Democrat-led Congress over the war,
he said, "It's going to be very difficult to be able to come back
and say 'we got this wrong and we need another chance.'"


"I don't think we've got a lot of time," he said. "Clearly, I
believe by before the end of this year, we're going to have
decided whether this is working and (whether) we're going to be
successful in achieving those expectations."


Otherwise, he said, the United States would need to decided "that
we're going to have to be doing something else."


The United States House of Representatives approved an Iraq war
funding bill Friday that includes a timetable to withdraw US
troops by August 31, 2008.


Bush has vowed to veto the legislation if it passes Congress,
accusing Democratic leaders of playing political games while US
troops are locked in battle.

