

Ivory Coast rebels said their leader Guillaume Soro will be named
prime minister on Tuesday by President Laurent Gbagbo as part of
a peace accord between the former arch-rivals.


Soro, a 34-year-old former student leader, led an attempted coup
against Gbagbo in 2002 sparking a civil war that left the west
African country effectively divided in two.


But the rebels announced that the two sides had agreed Soro would
become prime minister at a meeting in the Burkina Faso capital on
Monday.


New Forces spokesman Alain Lobognon announced on the rebel's
website that the two sides had signed a government accord in
Ouagadougou on Monday in the presence of Burkina Faso's security
minister, Djibril Bassole.


"This decision will be confirmed by a decree signed by the head
of state Laurent Gbagbo in the next few hours," said the
statement.


Gbagbo and the New Forces signed a peace accord in Ouagadougou on
March 4. Under the deal a new prime minister and government was
to be named.


Konan Banny, who was appointed prime minister by the
international community in 2005, said Monday that he was ready to
make a "sacrifice" for the country and stand down.


Banny was given wider powers under a UN Security Council
resolution in 2006 to pursue the peace process in Ivory Coast and
move toward new elections. He said he had succeeded in his
mission by "restoring trust between the protagonists."


Soro led an Ivory Coast student union from 1995 to 1998 and was
given the nickname "Che" because of his left-wing militant
activities. He was imprisoned several times for taking part in
demonstrations against the ruling party of the time.


After living in Britain and then France, Soro returned to the
Ivory Coast and appeared at the side of General Robert Guei who
overthrew President Henri Konan Bedie in 2000.


Soro was also close to former prime minister Alassane Ouattara
when he was banned from the 2000 presidential election.


In October 2002, Soro was the secretary general of the Ivory
Coast Patriotic Movement which took control of the north of the
country after the coup attempt against Gbagbo. He later became
leader of the New Forces rebellion which took control of 60
percent of the cocoa-rich country.


After a first peace accord in January 2003, Soro was part of a
national reconciliation government and was communications
minister from 2004 to 2005.


The New Forces has been demanding that Soro become prime minister
since late 2005. He was a minister for reconstruction in Banny's
government.


Soro accepted an offer in January for "direct dialogue" with his
former enemy Gbagbo to take the country toward a peace accord and
elections. The talks led to the March 4 accord.

