

The World Cup has been shorn of its fun by the early exit of
crowd-pullers India and Pakistan, former Sri Lanka captain Arjuna
Ranatunga said on Tuesday.


Ranatunga, who had tipped India to win the showpiece event, said
he was shocked to see the two former champions knocked out in the
first round.


"I was shocked the way India played, especially against
Bangladesh," Ranatunga, who was captain when Sri Lanka won the
World Cup in 1996, told AFP.


"Guys like Sachin (Tendulkar), Sourav (Ganguly), Rahul (Dravid)
and (Anil) Kumble will be disappointed as they might not play
another World Cup."


Ranatunga said the tournament's new format, which had 16 teams
divided into four groups with the top two in each advancing to
the second round, contributed to the ouster of 1983 champions
India and 1992 winners Pakistan.


"The format was such that one bad game was enough to send a team
out," he said. "India had a bad day against Bangladesh while
Pakistan were not up to their best against Ireland.


"Earlier, teams had an opportunity to bounce back. For instance,
Sri Lanka were beaten by Kenya in 2003 but still we went on to
qualify for the semi-finals.


"In the previous World Cup where 14 teams were divided into two
groups, we had six first round matches, but here it's just three
games."


Ranatunga praised the Sri Lankan team, which cruised through with
three straight wins against India, Bangladesh and Bermuda.


"The Sri Lankans have played smart cricket," he said. "They have
not only created opportunities but grabbed those opportunities as
well.


"There's enthusiasm in the squad. Look at Muttiah Muralitharan,
he's 34 now, but his exuberance is the same as that of a 20-year-
old."


Ranatunga also said he hoped the murder of Pakistan coach Bob
Woolmer would be solved soon.


"Bob was a great man, I had lot of respect and regard for him" he
said.


"At the moment, people are pointing their fingers at the betting
mafia. I am surprised at the things the betting mafia can do to
have their way.


"Officials and governments must take the initiative to safeguard
the sport, but I wonder if the best efforts are being made to
stop these people."

