

Oil prices eased slightly in Asian trade Tuesday with rising
tensions between the West and major crude producer Iran
dominating sentiment, dealers said.


Prices are not expected to fall much further, however, unless
Iran and the West reach an agreement over Tehran's disputed
nuclear enrichment programme, they said.


At 2:23 pm (0623 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 17 cents at 62.74
dollars a barrel from 62.91 dollars in late US trades Monday.


Brent North Sea crude for May was down 16 cents at 64.25 dollars.


"We see some profit-taking after the gains (Monday). The market
has certainly pushed oil prices to a high due to the Iranian
tension," said Daiwa Securities analyst Mark Pervan in Melbourne.


"Heightened risk in the Middle East has put a high floor in oil
prices," he added.


Aside from rising geopolitical risks, the increase in demand
ahead of the peak gasoline (petrol) season is also keeping prices
up.


The Iranian situation is "also coinciding with a jump in US crude
demand in the next few weeks due to increasing gasoline output
ahead of the driving season," Pervan said.


Iran is adding a "geopolitical risk premium to crude prices, with
many market participants concerned that the (nuclear) situation
could escalate, potentially leading to Iran using oil as a
bargaining tool," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said in London.


The White House on Monday urged Iran to rethink a threat to limit
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog and insisted Tehran bow
to international demands to freeze sensitive atomic work.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," said spokeswoman
Dana Perino.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, said Sunday it
would restrict its cooperation with the UN in retaliation for
fresh Security Council sanctions over its disputed atomic
program.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


The decision followed news Friday that Iran had seized 15 British
servicemen in the Gulf, a move that roiled the market.

