

Hyundai Motor chairman Chung Mong-koo, who is facing a three-year
jail term for creating a multi-million dollar slush fund, pleaded
Tuesday for another chance so he can continue leading the world's
sixth biggest automaker.


Chung told a South Korean appeals court he was not directly
involved in the embezzlement of company funds and did not know
details about it.


The tycoon was sentenced in February by a lower court for breach
of trust and embezzling 90 billion won (95 million dollars) in
company funds through fraudulent accounting.


He was also convicted of inflicting financial damage on
affiliates.


Chung, 68, appealed for another chance but expressed remorse for
unspecified faults, Yonhap news agency reported.


"If I can have another chance, as there are many challenges that
my company is confronted with, I will do my best to overcome
them," he told the Seoul High Court. "I'm ashamed and have been
reflecting on myself a lot."


Chung, one of the country's richest men, remained free on bail
pending his appeal. It was not clear when the appeal hearing
would end.


Chung is credited with transforming the Hyundai Motor group,
which includes Kia Motors, into a leading global carmaker by
focusing on quality.


"Chung is a 'field-type' CEO, whose role is very significant as
Hyundai faces lots of challenges in the global auto market," his
lawyer Seok Ho-Pil told the court.


Sok also said the embezzled funds were used only for company-
related activities over several years, including dinners for
employees and sales-boosting promotions.


Prosecutors insisted the original sentence was too light. They
said the embezzlement was not part of Chung's efforts to help the
conglomerate, but aimed at personal gain.


Hyundai Motor is beset by labour problems and faces increasing
competition from outside rivals.


Last week tax officials raided some of its affiliates over the
slush fund scandal. On Monday police arrested two former Hyundai
labor union heads for allegedly leading an illegal strike.

