

Medecine has scored a great success with statin drugs against
"bad" cholesterol, but the quest for a treatment to increase
"good" cholesterol vital for a healthy heart has fallen short.


Researchers unveiled Monday at the 56th annual meeting of the
American College of Cardiology (ACC) in New Orleans, Louisiana,
disappointing clinical trials of cholesterol drugs, including
Pfizer Inc's torcetrapib drug.


Once considered the most promising drug to boost beneficial HDL
cholesterol, the US pharmaceutical giant abandoned its 800
-million-dollar investment in December because of an increased
risk of heart attack and death.


A clinical trial on 1,188 patients published in the March 29
edition of the New England Journal of Medicine showed that a
group taking torcetrapib combined with another drug,
atorvastatine, saw its HDL cholesterol increase by 61 percent
compared with a group taking only atorvastatine.


But the rate of deaths, hospitalizations and heart attacks was
alarming, said Steven Nissen, ACC president and lead analyst of
the clinical trial.


Two other clinical trials on an experimental anti-diabetes
treatment by US pharmaceutical group Eli Lilly and Co. also
proved disappointing.


Eli Lilly's new drug, LY518674, raised HDL cholesterol but also
increased risks for the heart and kidneys, said Nissen, main
researchers for the studies appearing in the Journal of American
Medical Association (JAMA) on March 28.


Another study on 183 patients taking the drug CSL-111, by
Australian firm CSL, showed that the treatment did not show a
great difference in the accumulation of plaques in coronary
arteries, said Jean-Claude Tardif of the Montreal Heart
Institute.


"Whether this failure represents a problem unique to torcetrapid
or suggests a lack of efficacy for the entire class of similar
drugs remains to be determined," Nissan told reporters.


"Our findings demonstrate the great difficulty in developing
therapies to interrupt the atherosclerosis process," he said.
"Twenty years after the introduction of statins, we are still
waiting for the next breakthrough."


Despite the success of statins against bad LDL cholesterol, such
as Lipitor, many users still suffer from atherosclerosis that
increases the risks of heart attack.


Researchers are focusing on ways to boost HDL cholesterol, which
takes fat from blood to the liver where it is dissolved.


Heart disease killed 900,000 Americans in 2005, the top cause of
death.

