

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, wrapping up her Middle
East peace mission, said on Tuesday that Israeli and Palestinian
leaders had agreed to meet every two weeks, but that the time was
not ripe for final peace talks.


On the final day of four days of shuttle diplomacy, Rice also
urged Arab nations -- which have revived a five-year old peace
plan -- to reach out to Israel.


She said Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas "have agreed that they plan to meet
together biweekly," Rice said, adding that she would "talk to
each party in parallel."


"Israelis and Palestinians must clarify a political horizon
together," she told a press conference in Jerusalem.


But she added: "We're not yet at the final status negotiations,"
saying the parties "need to lay the groundwork so when the time
comes those negotiations succeed."


She also said efforts to jumpstart the peace process have been
complicated by the formation of a Palestinian unity government
led by the radical Islamic movement Hamas, considered a terror
group in the West.


"It did complicate things... the establishment of a government
that is not Quartet compliant is difficult and it causes
complications on the path to the Palestinian state."


The unity government has refused to abide demands set by the
international Middle East Quartet to renounce violence, recognise
Israel and abide by past peace accords. Israel has in turn
refused to recognise the government.


Rice spent four days shuttling between Israeli and Palestinian
leaders, as well as US Arab allies in Egypt and Jordan, as part
of what she called a new approach of "parallel" talks designed to
define a "common agenda" for advancing negotiations on a peace
accord and the creation of a Palestinian state.


"The Arab states must begin reaching out to Israel... to show
Israel that they accept its place in the Middle East," she said
on the eve of an Arab League summit in Riyadh.


According to Israeli media and US officials, she encountered
stiff opposition from Olmert on parts of her initiative,
specifically that he and Abbas start talking on "core issues" as
called for by the Palestinians.


From what Rice had revealed, her idea was to hold separate
negotiations with the two sides on the contours of a future
Palestinian state -- a "political horizon" she says must be
explored to maintain Palestinian hopes for a better future and
prevent Islamic rejectionists from gaining further influence.


At the same time Rice was seeking a parallel track to offer
Israel the "political horizon" of a possible blanket peace deal
with Arab states to make up for the concessions a deal with the
Palestinians will require.


The secretary of state began her tour Saturday by meeting leaders
of Washington's main Sunni Arab allies -- Egypt, Saudi Arabia,
Jordan and the United Arab Emirates -- to promote the revival of
a five-year Arab peace plan at an Arab League summit opening
Wednesday in Riyadh.


In a sign of a possible breakthrough, Arab foreign ministers on
Monday endorsed the plan, which would offer Israel recognition in
return for a full withdrawal from Arab land captured in 1967, the
establishment of a Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


The ministers suggested setting up working groups to advance the
plan, including via contacts with the Jewish state. The full
summit is expected to adopt the proposals later this week.


Olmert on Monday welcomed the initiative and said he was also
willing to attend a meeting that could bring Arab and Palestinian
leaders together with the Quartet -- the European Union, the
United Nations, United States and Russia.


"If such an invitation would come my way ... I would not hesitate
to participate," he said.


US officials confirmed the Quartet-sponsored meeting was under
consideration as part of the broader effort to promote the Arab-
Israeli "horizon," but said it was "premature" to talk about
issuing invitations until it was clear Saudi Arabia, the Arab
powerhouse, was ready to attend.

