

The fate of an 8.9 billion US dollar takeover bid for Qantas
remained in the balance Tuesday after two institutional investors
unveiled significant shareholdings in the Australian airline.


Deutsche Bank revealed Tuesday it had purchased an 8.4 percent
stake in the airline, hot on the heels of Swiss investment bank
UBS informing the market late Monday that it had increased its
shareholding from 8.94 to 10.4 percent.


The private equity consortium bidding for Qantas needs
shareholders holding at least 90 percent of the stock to accept
its 5.45 Australian dollars (4.39 US dollars) a share offer for
Australia's iconic Flying Kangaroo.


One institutional investor, Balanced Equity Management, has
already said it will use its 4.0 percent holding to vote against
the deal, meaning either Deutsche or UBS could scuttle the plan
if they deem the current offer inadequate.


UBS is also reportedly concerned about the offer but neither it
nor Deutsche Bank had made any statement to the Australian Stocks
Exchange indicating how they will vote on the takeover.


Aequs Securities head of institutional trading Ric Klusman said
he believed UBS was angling for a higher offer and he believed it
and Deutsche would sell a significant portion of their
shareholdings if the deal failed.


"You can imagine what that will do to the share price," Klusman
said.


The private equity consortium behind the bid, Airline Partners
Australia (APA), offered no update Tuesday on figures released
Friday that owners of 29 percent of Qantas shares had accepted
its offer.


APA released a statement late Sunday downplaying the impact of
Balanced Equity Management's rejection of its offer, which is
worth 11.1 billion Australian dollars.


"The fact that one institutional shareholder has declined the
offer in no way deters us from successfully completing this
transaction with the overwhelming majority of shareholders who
support it," it said.


"APA is actively considering a range of options to ensure
successful completion of its offer and will continue to keep the
market informed."


Qantas shares were up three cents or 0.6 percent at 5.12 dollars
in mid- afternoon trade in a falling overall market.

