

Two cars exploded in overnight attacks on an Ethiopian military
compound in Mogadishu, killing an apparent suicide attacker and a
taxi driver who was shot when Ethiopian troops retaliated,
officials said Tuesday.


"A suicide car targeted an Ethiopian military compound, crossed
the checkpoint and hit a wall at the main gate. The car exploded,
the driver was killed but we don't know if there was fatality on
the Ethiopian side," said a senior Somali military officer, who
requested anonymity.


"Another car in the same area which was abandoned exploded at
night without damaging anybody."


An Ethiopian officer confirmed the attacks had taken place at an
Ethiopian base in Darmole, in the northern outskirts of
Mogadishu, and said troops had fired back to defend themselves,
killing a taxi driver.


Residents said the taxi driver had not been involved in the
attack but had been near the second car that exploded.


"It was very difficult for everybody to tell whether he was an
attacker or not," said resident Ahmed Gutale.


"These kind of attacks will further complicate the situation in
Mogadishu," said another resident, Abdullahe Mumil.


Somali soldiers closed part of the road, a major highway leading
from Mogadishu to the northern Puntland region, to carry out
further checks after the attacks.


A shaky ceasefire has been in place in Mogadishu since Friday
after a week of some of the deadliest insurgent attacks since
Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out an Islamist movement from south
and central Somalia over the New Year.


Somalia's powerful Hawiye clan on Tuesday asked the government to
release an unknown number of its fighters a day after releasing
18 government forces captured during bloody clashes last week.


The Hawiye on Friday made a ceasefire deal with Ethiopian troops
backing the Somali government.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a full-scale civil war that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

