

The mighty United Auto Workers union opens its quadrennial
bargaining convention Tuesday under siege and fearing the loss of
some cherished bargaining power.


The 1,500 delegates to the convention will vote on a resolution
that sets the union's overall bargaining objective for workers in
various industries and sectors of the economy during the next
four years.


However, unlike in the past, this year's convention resolution,
with its broad call for better pay and richer benefits, may have
relatively little impact on negotiations.


A convention delegate, Gloria Jean Morgan, the president of the
UAW Local 594 in Pontiac, Michigan representing more than 2,500
General Motors Corp. workers, said she is bracing for a potential
fight with automakers this year over health care.


"It's showdown in Motown," she said, using Detroit's nickname.


GM, Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler have all signaled they
expect to push hard for changes in the companies' rich health
care plans, which traditionally have been one of the union's
signature benefits.


Auto manufacturers have complained in recent years that even
after recent concessions, autoworkers still pay for less than 10
percent of their health care costs, while the average workers
pays close to 30 percent of their costs.


Indeed, if the union manages to hang on to wage and benefit
packages in its current contract, which was signed in 2003, many
union members will count it as a victory.


Sean McAlinden, an analyst with the Center for Automotive
Research, predicted the increase in pension benefits, which has
been one of the hallmarks of recent UAW contracts with Detroit's
automakers, is probably a thing of the past.


"This will probably be the first contract in several years
without an increase in pensions," he said.


The generous payments placed in a so-called jobs bank -- a
program paying idled workers nearly their full salary while being
retrained -- are also likely to be restricted.


Harley Shaiken, a labor expert from the University of California-
Berkley, said the union is unlikely to surrender the principle
behind the job bank but is likely to approve changes.


The union also expected to face pressure to give up more ground
on work rules and on the pay for new hires, observers said.


UAW President Ron Gettelfinger admitted the union's influence has
been diminished by the increase in automobile production at non-
union plants operated by Toyota Honda and other Asian companies.


The transplants now account for about 30 percent of the
production in America.


"There is no doubt that our size or density in any particular
industry or workplace is directly related to our power or
strength," Gettelfinger said during a recent Internet
conversation with union members.


"Twenty years ago, we represented over 95 percent of the auto
industry in the US. That gave the UAW tremendous power to
negotiate great contracts," he said.


"Even though our density in auto is less today, our union still
sets the standard in wages, benefits and working conditions," he
said. "Organizing is such a large priority."


But the union has yet to score a major victory at any of the
transplants, with attempts at Honda, Toyota, Nissan and Subaru
plants repeatedly coming up short.


Union leaders also are likely to be challenged by union
dissidents this time.


Activists from Soldiers of Solidarity are vowing to demonstrate
in Detroit and demand union leaders resist the pressure for
concessions.

