

US forces in Iraq said on Tuesday they had arrested two leaders
of a network suspected of killing about 900 civilians and
wounding nearly 2,000 others in a series of high-profile car bomb
attacks.


Haytham Kazim Abdallah al-Shimari and Haydar Rashid Nasir al-
Shammari al-Jafar were arrested separately on March 21 in
Baghdad's Sunni district of Adhamiyah, the US military said.


"It is estimated that since November, the car bombs from this
cell have killed approximately 900 innocent Iraqi civilians and
another 1,950 have been wounded," the military said.


Shimari, the alleged leader of the network, was arrested after he
and his driver engaged in a shootout with US troops trying to
flag his vehicle down.


The US military said Shimari is suspected of "being involved in
the planning and execution of the majority of car bombs which
have killed hundreds of Iraqi citizens in Sadr City".


Sadr City, the impoverished Shiite district in Baghdad, has been
repeatedly hit by devastating car bombs carried out by Sunni
extremists in the Sunni-Shiite sectarian conflict that has
engulfed the capital.


In November, 202 people were killed and hundreds more wounded in
a coordinated car bombing in Sadr city, the biggest attack since
the US-led invasion in 2003.


Jafar, the network's second in command, was arrested in Adhamiyah
within 24 hours of Shimari's arrest following an intelligence
tip, the military reported.


He was detained along with two other suspected members of the
network, Ahmed Hassan Niami and Hamid Selman Allawi, while
driving through Adhamiyah.


Insurgents have continued to carry out high-profile car bombs in
and around Baghdad despite a massive security crackdown in the
capital since February 14.


The US military has maintained that although the daily execution-
style killings, a hallmark of Shiite militias, have fallen in
Baghdad, the trademark car bombs have remained a headache to
security forces.


US and Iraqi forces are now sweeping the outskirts of Baghdad for
car bomb factories in a bid to stop the movement of explosives
into the Iraqi capital.


Tens of thousands of people have been killed in Iraq's brutal
insurgency and sectarian bloodshed, mostly in Baghdad, over the
last four years.


To quell the bloodletting, nearly 80,000 US and Iraqi troops are
currently patrolling the streets of Baghdad as part of the latest
security clamdown.

