

Atsuko Sugimoto, 76, survived the earthquake that hit this quiet
peninsula. But now she worries about lasting damage -- that more
young people will abandon one of the greyest parts of Japan.


"I've experienced the war, horrible fires and so on but this
earthquake was the most frightening in my life," said Sugimoto,
who has spent her entire life in Wajima, around 300 kilometres
(200 miles) west of Tokyo.


"I've got through the quake but I'm wondering if it will only
give another good reason to young people to leave our hometown
and discard their elders," Sugimoto said, looking resignedly at
her devastated neighbourhood.


"From the beginning there was nothing here but nature and quiet.
The earthquake even took that away."


The 6.9-magnitude quake struck this fishing and craft-making city
on Sunday, killing one person and injuring around 200. More than
600 buildings were damaged.


Hundreds of aftershocks, including two 5.3-magnitude jolts, have
since rattled the region, leaving residents stuck in shelters and
hampering recovery work.


Kikuno Sugimoto, 86, a lifetime friend of Sugimoto, feels similar
desolation following the worst natural disaster in the city's
history.


"There is nowhere to go for us at this age," said Sugimoto, who
has lived alone since she lost her husband 17 years ago due to
illness.


"No one is waiting for me but maybe my husband, who is waiting in
Heaven," the widow said. "The earthquake's over but we have
nothing left. My life will end soon, and so will this place."


Even for Japan, Wajima is grey.


According to the city, the number of people aged 65 or older
accounted for 34 percent of its population last year, and the
ratio is forecast to jump to some 40 percent in five years, one
of the highest in the ageing country.


The elderly made up 19.5 percent of Japan's total population in
2004 -- and that number is expected to soar past 35 percent in
2050 unless young people can be persuaded to have more children.


"We may have to seriously consider the impact of the earthquake
on our community in terms of depopulation," said Kuniyuki
Kawasaki, an official of the city's welfare bureau.


"It is true that measures to prevent our city from becoming an
ageing society are one of our priority tasks. But it is also true
that due to a limited budget, we cannot take drastic measures to
do so."


Quake-prone Japan has developed advanced infrastructure and
rescue operations that limited casualties despite the widespread
damage from the latest tremor.


But however sophisticated the buildings, psychological pressure
continues to hit the elderly hard.


A 2004 earthquake in the central Niigata region killed 67 people.
Most of them died not from the initial damage but from heart
attacks and other stress-related illnesses among the elderly.


Younger residents say that economic realities are pushing them to
desert the countryside and their elders for youthful urban areas.


"It is very natural for us to think about leaving this place
after such an earthquake," said Kimie Morishita, a 38-year-old
mother of three, who lives in one of the worst-hit parts of the
city.


"There is no job in this town for people like me," said
Morishita, who commutes to a nearby town to work as a beautician.


"With no potential customers expected here, no one wants to take
risks. When my children grow up and work in the big cities, I may
leave my hometown."

