

Tamil Tiger rebels drove a tractor-trailer on Tuesday loaded with
explosives and bombed an army camp in Sri Lanka's east, killing
eight people, a day after their spectacular first-ever air raid.


Ten people were wounded in the suicide attack against the
Chenkaladi army camp, a military official said, as the defence
ministry reported other violence which left a soldier and three
rebels dead.


The suicide bombing by the driver and his assistant came a day
after the Tigers flew single-engined planes over the main
military air base adjacent to Sri Lanka's only international
airport and dropped bombs, killing three airmen and wounding 16
others.


Two separate teams are investigating the air strike -- an
embarrassing blow to the country's defence establishment -- and
President Mahinda Rajapakse also held an emergency meeting with
political party leaders here on Monday night.


"The air power of a frenzied and desperate organisation as the
LTTE is a grave threat aimed not only to Sri Lanka but also to
the entire South Asian region," the president's office said in a
joint statement.


It said political parties in Sri Lanka urged the international
community to "make a proper assessment of this very real danger."


The Tigers said the military carried out retaliatory air strikes
inside rebel- held territory on Monday afternoon, but there were
no casualties.


Tuesday's suicide bombing was in the coastal district of
Batticaloa where government forces have been conducting intensive
operations against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
since December.


The office of the Eelam People's Democratic Party (EPDP), a pro-
government Tamil party which cooperates with security forces, was
also destroyed.


"Two soldiers and four EPDP men were killed and about 10 wounded
at the camp," a military official in Batticaloa told AFP. "There
are two other bodies to be identified."


Military sources said the Tigers had tried to stage a similar
suicide bombing against Chenkaladi last week, but failed when the
explosives went off prematurely.


Chenkaladi was attacked last week together with three other
military camps in Batticaloa district, leaving four soldiers dead
and 30 wounded, according to the military.


There was no immediate word from the Tigers about the latest
attack. The defence ministry separately said three rebels were
shot dead in the country's north while the Tigers killed a
government soldier in a clash in Batticaloa.


Relief workers have raised fresh concerns for the safety of
civilians in Batticaloa as more people fled their homes and
sought the safety of public buildings to avoid getting caught in
the crossfire between troops and rebels.


At least 150,000 people have been internally displaced within the
district, where troops and Tamil Tiger rebels have been trading
long-range attacks for weeks.


Security forces have vowed to flush out the Tigers from the
restive eastern region after the military captured the key Tiger
bastion of Vakarai in January after several weeks of intense
battles.


Troops have also tried to capture a jungle base known as
Thoppigala from the Tigers, who are fighting for an independent
homeland for the island's ethnic Tamil minority.


More than 60,000 people have been killed in Sri Lanka's Tamil
separatist campaign since 1972. The two sides agreed to a truce
in February 2002, but subsequent peace talks have broken down.

