

Former NBA centre Wang Zhizhi is looking to lead his Bayi Rockets
to their eighth China Basketball Association title with a win
over the defending champion Guangdong Tigers on Wednesday.


Wang has vastly outplayed up and coming 20-year-old Guangdong
power forward Yi Jianlian in the best-of-seven series, with the
underdog Rockets jumping out to a 3-1 lead after Saturday's
overtime 103-100 win at home.


The former Dallas Mavericks centre had 34 points, 15 rebounds and
four blocks as the Rockets overcame a double-digit deficit to
clinch the win. He has averaged 22 points and nearly 11 rebounds
in the four games of the series.


"Everyone can see how important Wang Zhizhi is to Bayi," said
coach A Dijiang. "But our veteran players also put everything
they had into the games... and they have stood up at the crucial
times."


While the 29-year-old Wang hit a number of crucial shots in the
final quarter and overtime of game four, he also defended well,
holding Guangdong's imported American centre Jason Dixon to eight
points while helping contain Yi.


Yi, who has declared himself eligible for this June's NBA draft,
is viewed as the best NBA prospect out of China since Houston
Rockets star Yao Ming, and is being watched by several league
teams during the ongoing finals.


Although Yi has averaged 20 points and 11 rebounds in the series,
he has not been able to shake Bayi's defence late in the games
while also committing a total of 16 turnovers, including five in
Saturday's match-up.


The seven-foot (2.12-meter) Wang won six CBA championships with
Bayi before embarking on a four-year stint in the NBA, where he
saw limited playing time for Dallas, the Los Angeles Clippers and
the Miami Heat.


Since returning to China he has helped the national side into the
second round of last year's World Basketball Championships and
led the team to a gold medal in December's Asian Games.


Wednesday's game will be played on Guangdong's home court in
Dongguan city while a game six, if necessary, would return to
Bayi's home in Ningbo.

