

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe voiced hope Tuesday for
expanding cooperation with Beijing as his government said Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao will visit from April 11.


Wen will be the first Chinese leader to come to Tokyo since 2000
as the two countries work to improve relations which have been
badly strained over history issues and energy disputes.


During his three-day stay, Wen will meet with Abe and Emperor
Akihito and Empress Michiko, Japan's foreign ministry said.


The two nations also hope to hold a major energy seminar during
Wen's visit with participants drawn from government ministers and
leaders of some 100 Japanese and Chinese energy firms, officials
said.


"We are making efforts to make Sino-Japan ties a relationship of
strategic and mutual benefit," Abe told a press conference. "I
believe Premier Wen's visit will be an opportunity to advance our
effort."


China had refused summits with Abe's predecessor Junichiro
Koizumi due to his visits to a war shrine seen by China as symbol
of wartime atrocities.


Asked about the Yasukuni shrine, Abe stood by his position of
refusing to comment on whether he will go.


Abe said improved ties were crucial in pressing North Korea to
end its nuclear drive and resolve a row over its kidnappings with
Japan, a major bilateral dispute.


"I hope we will engage in dialogues over a broad range of issues.
We can cooperate especially in the environment and energy
sectors," Abe said.


Abe visited China in October just after taking office in a bid to
repair relations.


"If Prime Minister Abe's visit to China... can be described as an
ice breaker, then I hope my visit to Japan will be an ice
thawer," Wen said this month.


Japan and China had earlier announced the visit without giving
the exact dates. Wen will be the first Chinese leader to visit
since then premier Zhu Rongji in 2000.


South Korea's Yonhap News agency, quoting an unnamed Chinese
source, said Wen had originally planned a longer trip but cut it
short due to Abe's controversial remarks on World War II sex
slaves.


Japanese officials have declined comment on that report.


Abe earlier this month denied that Japanese soldiers directly
coerced so-called "comfort women" into army brothels.


His comments caused an uproar, in particular in the United States
and South Korea.


Abe, trying to contain the damage, on Monday renewed Japan's
apology to comfort women.

