

More gold is expected for Michael Phelps and Laure Manaudou as
the king and queen of this year's world championships crank up
their huge swimming schedules on Wednesday's fourth day in the
pool.


Phelps, test-running his ambitious quest to trump Mark Spitz's
seven Olympic gold medal record with eight golds at next year's
Beijing Olympics, is looking to add the 200-metres butterfly
title to his collection.


The American world record-holder has looked smooth in the water
and few obstacles appear to be in the way of him claiming his
third 200m butterfly title after not competing in the event at
the last championships in Montreal.


Manaudou, who has also taken on a punishing schedule of eight
events at the 12th FINA championships, is down for the 200m
freestyle on Wednesday with the enticement of breaking German
Franziska van Almsick's world record.


Van Almsick's record of 1:56.64 has stood since 2002 but such is
the French 20 -year-old's determination to break records that it
could be under attack.


The big question is whether the grind of Manaudou's huge
programme, where she swam in three events on Tuesday, including
the 30-lap 1500m freestyle, will have its toll.


While it is onwards and upwards for Phelps and Manaudou,
Australia's champion swimmer Grant Hackett is struggling to make
an impact and will be under pressure to hold on to his world 800m
title Wednesday.


Hackett relinquished his 400m freestyle world crown to emerging
Korean youngster Park Tae-hwan on Sunday's opening night,
settling for bronze, and he again looked sluggish in the heats of
the 800m.


He was fifth fastest into the final behind his teammate Craig
Stevens with 7:51.86, over 13 seconds outside his world record in
Montreal two years ago.


"I would like to think I can (defend the title). I'm not getting
up on the block to lose. I'll give it 100 percent and see what
the others can throw back at me," Hackett said.


"It's very competitive. I'm not in my peak form, I've got to push
everything out of myself and keep looking forward. It's going to
be a good race."


Hackett has had his worst preparation for a major championships,
switching coaches, recovering from shoulder surgery and moving to
Melbourne to be near his girlfriend, and he admits it has hurt
his chances.


South African Cameron van der Burgh will vie with American
Brendan Hansen for the 50m breaststroke final.

