

A Sydney-based dealer for Citigroup on Tuesday denied insider
trading charges brought against the world's biggest bank by the
Australian corporate regulator.


The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has
accused Citigroup's Australian arm of insider trading and failing
to manage a conflict of interest over stock trades in logistics
firm Patrick Corp in August 2005.


In a case which could have international implications for the way
investment banks deal in shares, ASIC charged Citigroup after one
arm of the bank bought Patrick shares while another was helping
organise a takeover of the firm.


Citibank was advising bidder Toll Holdings on the takeover and
ASIC alleges it had inside information when one of its traders
bought Patrick shares on August 19, a day before the bid was
announced.


The trader who bought the shares, Andrew Manchee, said he never
knew Citibank was advising Toll about the Patrick bid.


"It didn't cross my mind that Citigroup had any involvement," he
told the court, Australian Associated Press reported.


Manchee also denied offloading the shares before the end of the
trading day because Citigroup's head of equity derivatives Paul
Darwell advised him to stop buying Patrick shares as the pair
talked while smoking cigarettes outside the bank's Sydney
offices.


Manchee said he sold the shares to "take profits" and the
decision had nothing to do with his conversation with Darwell,
who knew about the Patrick deal.


He was questioned by ASIC lawyer Brett Walker about a statement
he gave to the regulators in the months after the incident, when
he said Darwell's advice "might have been one of the things I
thought about" when selling.


Manchee said that at the time, he thought he was answering a
hypothetical question.


When Walker suggested he was lying or being misleading, Manchee
replied: "I disagree."


Citigroup has denied ASIC's claims. If found guilty of the civil
charges, it faces a fine of up to one million dollars (805,000 US
dollars).


If upheld, the case could also force a revision of the so-called
"Chinese walls" used by investments banks -- the safeguards used
to stop information leaking between departments to prevent
insider trading.

