

Australia's top tennis player Samantha Stosur will spearhead a
full-strength team in their Fed Cup clash against Austria later
this month.


The two nations will face each other in a World Group II playoff
in Dornbirn, Austria on April 21 and 22.


In-form Stosur, the world's top-ranked women's doubles player and
rated 27th in singles, will lead the Australian team into battle
indoors on clay, Fed Cup captain David Taylor announced.


She will be joined by world number 45 Nicole Pratt, the 58th-
ranked Alicia Molik and doubles specialist Rennae Stubbs.


Nicole Bradtke will also return as assistant captain, while
promising West Australian teenager Jessica Moore has again been
selected as hitting partner.


"It will be a very challenging tie for the Optus Australian Fed
Cup team," Taylor said.


"Austria has a home court advantage and two players (Sybille
Bammer and Tamira Paszek) that have won singles titles on the
Sony Ericsson WTA Tour in the last 12 months. However, I like our
chances," he said.


"Australia has three players ranked in the top 60 in the world
and all our girls have some outstanding doubles accomplishments,"
he added.


Pratt has improved her ranking 32 places in three months after
starting the year at number 77, posting wins over leading
Russians Dinara Safina and Maria Kirilenko.


Molik, a former world number 8, has made considerable ranking
gains during the last few months following her return to the tour
last May.


So far this year, she has made the quarter-finals at Australia's
Hobart International and the third round at Indian Wells and the
Australian Open.


First representing Australia in the team competition back in
1992, Stubbs is Australia's most-capped Fed Cup player, having
amassed 13 years of participation and moving past the previous
record set by Wendy Turnbull.


A winner of 55 doubles titles, Stubbs is ranked number seven in
the world.


The Australians were promoted to World Group II following a 5-0
whitewash of Switzerland in Chavannes-de-Bogis last July.

