

While South Asian diplomats solemnly pledged a better future this
week for their 1.4 billion people, translating good intentions
into reality on the ground remains mired in difficulty.


As part of the effort to improve travel links, neighbours India
and Bangladesh have announced the resumption of a passenger train
service which was suspended more than four decades ago.


Both nations are members of the South Asia Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC), which wound up a two-day summit in
New Delhi on Wednesday with high- sounding promises to boost
regional connectivity.


The Indo-Bangladesh train which is due to have a trial run on
April 14 fits perfectly into the SAARC plans.


But here at the Indian village of Gede, the last stop from the
border where Bangladesh rail passengers will have to clear
customs, officials trot out a litany of woes.


Infrastructure, such as it is, is far from ready for the service
to start.


"The station needs to be overhauled to cater to passenger needs,"
said Gede station master Jitendranath Biswas, in his tin shed
office strewn with broken cane chairs.


"We need at least a second platform before the train chugs into
the station and foolproof security, immigration and customs
arrangements," he said.


The immigration office "is understaffed, lacks trained personnel
and facilities to cope with the rush of passengers," Biswas
added.


Passenger services were suspended following the 1965 war between
India and Pakistan, a casualty of mutual hostility, even though
goods trains have continued to ply the route.


Muslim-majority Bangladesh was then known as East Pakistan.
Bangladesh became independent in 1971 after India backed the
cause of the independence fighters.


But today New Delhi and Dhaka accuse each of harbouring militants
who stage cross-border attacks. India bemoans a flood of illegal
migrants from Bangladesh.


The lack of customs facilities in Gede, a dusty village of 15,000
people, is not the only problem facing the new passenger rail
service, officials say.


The train will only be able to run between Kolkata on the Indian
side to Joydevpur, 40 kilometres (25 miles) from the Bangladeshi
capital Dhaka due to track problems.


The track from Kolkata to Joydevpur is broad gauge but from there
on it is metre gauge and must be relaid.


"The train will be extended up to Dhaka. We will try to do that
as early as possible," said Bangladesh diplomat Syed A.B. Jafar
Ahmed who is posted in Kolkata.


Still, even though the service will not run immediately, it could
be a boon for the sick coming to India for more sophisticated
medical treatment and for Bangladeshi Hindus making pilgrimages
to shrines in mainly Hindu India, officials say.


"Over three million Bangladeshis visit Kolkata for medical
treatment and pilgrimage every year. Once the train service is
fully operational, it will be a cheap form of transport for
them", said diplomat Ahmed.


Right now, it is an arduous journey to India for Bangladeshis
from their impoverished homeland.


"An average of 100 Bangladeshis come on foot daily to Gede,
walking along the (goods) railway track linking the two
countries," said Indian immigration official Nirmal Biswas.


The sick are carried down the tracks on stretchers.


"They board Kolkata-bound trains at Gede after immigration and
custom checks," Biswas said, adding that very few Indians
travelled through Gede to Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest
nations.


Still some efforts are being made at the Gede station to revive
the passenger service.


The lone platform at the station which is dotted with hawkers'
stalls has been spruced up with a fresh layer of concrete.


"We're now trying our best to create the facilities, needed for
such an important event," said Indian customs superintendent
Manas Mukhopadhyay.

