

All Blacks flyhalf Dan Carter will be back for defending
champions Canterbury Crusaders against the Perth-based Western
Force in their Super 14 rugby match in Christchurch on Saturday.


Carter, considered by many pundits as the best player in world
rugby, was missing with a neck injury as the Crusaders scraped a
34-33 win over the New South Wales Waratahs last Saturday.


While the Crusaders scored six tries to four and dominated the
Waratahs, poor goalkicking from flyhalf Stephen Brett almost cost
them the match.


But with the accomplished Carter back in the number 10 jersey,
goalkicking will be the least of their concerns.


The Crusaders' main worry is the loss of All Black lock Chris
Jack with a serious knee injury.


Jack's loss will hamper Canterbury's line-out against a Force
outfit featuring Wallaby lock Nathan Sharpe and former
Queenslander Rudi Vedelago.


Crusaders coach Robbie Deans has brought winger Caleb Ralph in at
the expense of Scott Hamilton, while scrumhalf Andy Ellis
replaces Kevin Senio and Michael Paterson replaces the injured
Jack.


"While we've had to make a few changes, we've still been able to
enjoy a fair bit of continuity, with all but Dan Carter having
been involved in the match day 22 last week," Deans said.


Deans said he was not worried about Carter's readiness for the
top-four match.


"He was involved in most of the preparation for that (Waratahs)
match anyway, until we had to pull him out through injury," Deans
said.


The Force have shown good form away from home this season,
winning both their South African games and drawing with the
Waratahs in Sydney.


They are coming off a good 22-12 win against the Natal-based
Coastal Sharks last weekend but have lost scrumhalf Matt Henjak
with a serious knee injury.


The table-topping Auckland Blues should maintain their standings
lead when they host the Bloemfontein-based Central Cheetahs
Friday.


The Blues won a tough away trip against neighbours Waikato Chiefs
last Saturday, while the Cheetahs went down to the Otago
Highlanders in Dunedin.


Auckland winger Doug Howlett will make his 100th Super rugby
appearance against the Cheetahs, only the seventh New Zealander
to pass the century mark since tournament's inception in 1996.


"It's been an amazing 10 years," he said. "I've been extremely
fortunate to be able to continue playing in this great
competition all that time and I've really enjoyed it -- and I
still am."


Howlett last weekend also became the tournament's leading try
scorer with 58, going past the previous mark set by Australian
Joe Roff.


The Sharks will be aiming to secure third place when they travel
to Brisbane to take on the hapless Queensland Reds on Saturday.


The Sharks slipped to fourth spot following successive losses to
the ACT Brumbies and the Force but will fancy themselves against
a Queensland team rocked by injury and distracted by weeks of
speculation over the future of coach Eddie Jones.


Reds lock Hugh McMeniman, fullback Clinton Schifcofske, centre
Andrew Brown, flyhalf Berrick Barnes and hooker Sean Hardman will
be available after recovering from injuries.


If the Sharks go down to the Reds they will leave the door open
for the Brumbies to leapfrog them into fourth spot if they can
beat the Waratahs in Canberra on Sunday night.


The Waratahs, second from bottom, have regained confidence
following their narrow loss to the Crusaders, but they will find
the going tough against the Brumbies, who are coming off two
straight wins, both in South Africa.


In other matches, Otago Highlanders host the Waikato Chiefs,
while the Cape Town Stormers are at home to the Johannesburg-
based Lions.


The Hurricanes and the Pretoria-based Bulls have the bye.

