

Lawyers acting for former Tour de France winner Jan Ullrich
claimed Wednesday that nine blood bags seized in a Spanish doping
scandal and linked to the former German cycling star were not in
themselves proof of doping.


DNA tests on blood seized in the offices of Spanish doctor
Eufemiano Fuentes in 2006 were on Tuesday linked by prosecutors
in Bonn to Ullrich who becomes the first cyclist to be confirmed
as being linked to the blood doping ring investigated during
Operation Puerto.


"If all that is evoked is confirmed then all that has been found
is the blood of our client in Spain, but that does not in itself
mean that doping took place. We are a long way off being charged
with fraud," lawyer Peter-Michael Diestel, told the news channel
N24.


"My blood is also all over the place: I have a doctor in Rostock,
another in Berlin and another I don't know where yet," said
Diestel, a specialist in defending sportsmen and coaches accused
of doping in Germany.


Prosecutors in Bonn, meanwhile, dismissed earlier allegations by
Ullrich's legal team that the blood might have been tampered
with.


"There is no sign of manipulation," said Friedrich Apostel, a
spokesman for the Bonn prosecutor's office which is investigating
the rider for possible fraud.


Apostel pointed out that he was still awaiting an official
response from Ullrich's lawyers.


"I'm very hopeful that the preliminary investigation in this case
can be concluded between now and the end of the year," said
Apostel.


The Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper said in its Thursday edition
that the head of the sport committee of the German parliament,
Peter Danckert, wants to meet in May with "all the people
concerned in the case, employees and doctors".


German cycling team T-Mobile said they were "disappointed but not
surprised" by the revelations made against their former team
member.


"I'm disappointed that Jan has to finish his career in this way
but unfortunately not surprised," T-Mobile spokesman Christian
Frommert said.


"When we decided to pull Jan Ullrich from the team for the 2006
Tour de France, he insisted that contrary to elements which were
available to us that he had never been in contact with Fuentes.


"Information from prosecutors in Bonn proves the contrary," added
Frommert.


Ullrich retired from cycling in February, 10 months after his
name surfaced in Operation Puerto, leading to the 1997 Tour de
France winner being excluded from last year's race and sacked by
T-Mobile.


He has denied using any banned substances.


Meanwhile, Frommert urged sporting authorities to test all other
riders whose names appeared on the list of Fuentes' alleged
clients.


"The case of Ullrich proves that DNA comparisons are worth it,"
he added.


Ivan Basso, the 2006 Tour of Italy winner, was also implicated in
the Puerto affair and dropped by Danish cycling team CSC before
being authorised to race again by Italian sporting authorities.


He has since joined the American Discovery Channel team.

