

A US court Wednesday ruled that Boy Scouts should be allowed to
hold a mass camp at a US Army base, rejecting a claim that this
breached the constitution because the group was a religious body.


Five plaintiffs represented by the American Civil Liberties Union
had brought a lawsuit against the Department of Defense
challenging a 1972 law that allowed the Boy Scouts of America to
hold their jamboree on military land.


They initially won their case in 1999, arguing that the scouts
should not receive favors from the state because it is a
religious organization, on the grounds that one of the Scouts'
mottos refers to doing "Duty to God."


They said the army spends eight million dollars preparing for
each four-yearly Jamboree, a favor tendered to no other group.


The US Constitution stipulates an official separation between
Church and state.


On appeal, however, the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit on Wednesday overturned the victory on a technicality.


The court ruled that the plaintiffs, who claimed their right to
sue as taxpayers, had no basis to sue since they had suffered no
personal damages.


"The Jamboree Statute is primarily an exercise of Congress's
powers under the military and ... property clauses," the court
decision said.


"While the use of those powers necessarily requires some
incidental spending, the statute is not the kind of 'taxing and
spending' legislation identified ... as suitable for a taxpayer
challenge."


The Boy Scouts have held their jamboree at a military base
outside Washington for 25 years. In 2005 some 28,000 scouts and
7,000 adults attended. The next jamboree is slated for 2010.


The army builds infrastructure, lends blankets and refrigerators
and transports some participants to the event. The army says
these logistical activities represent training for its personnel.


"We are pleased that today's ruling preserves the training
opportunity for the military that Congress wanted it to have,"
said Robert Bork, spokesman for the scouts, in a statement
following the ruling.


It said the jamboree involved "activities emphasizing physical
fitness, appreciation of the outdoors, and patriotism."

