

A low-key former resistance fighter and a high-profile Nobel
laureate are strong contenders for the presidency in East Timor,
where voters will cast ballots Monday in a poll shadowed by
violence.


It will be the first election for the largely ceremonial post of
president since the country declared independence in 2002 after a
bloody separation from neighbouring Indonesia three years
earlier.


Current prime minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner Jose Ramos-
Horta, 57, is up against the powerful Fretilin party's chairman
Fransisco Guterres, 52, a former guerrilla who is popularly known
as Lu Olo.


A third candidate, Fernando "Lasama" De Araujo, the chairman of
the opposition Democrat Party, also stands a chance of winning
the contest, said Damien Kingsbury of Australia's Deakin
University.


"Ramos-Horta had a lot of popular support up to two weeks ago.
But his support has fallen," Kingsbury said, forecasting a run-
off. "It is a three-way contest."


Five other candidates are also vying for the presidency after a
largely peaceful two-week campaign set to end on Friday. More
than 520,000 people are registered to vote, and results should be
available later next week.


The charismatic Xanana Gusmao, who became the former Portuguese
colony's first president in a vote just prior to formal
independence, is not seeking re- election.


The election comes in an atmosphere of tension and uncertainty
after violence last year sparked the worst crisis in the
impoverished nation's short history.


"Political elites say that an election can resolve the situation.
But I do not trust this. A new president will not solve the
problems," said Jose Luis de Oliveira, of the human rights group
Yayasan HAK.


Security has been tightened ahead of the vote but clashes have
already taken place. Police were forced to fire warning shots
Wednesday after two officers were injured in unrest near the
Australian embassy in the capital Dili.


The poll also comes about one month after Australian troops
killed five armed supporters of a fugitive soldier, Major Alfredo
Reinado.


The Australians lead an international security force dispatched
after unrest in May last year that killed at least 37 people and
forced more than 150,000 to flee their homes. Some 37,000 people
are still displaced in Dili.


Last year's violence followed the sacking by then-prime minister
Mari Alkatiri of 600 army deserters after they complained of
discrimination. Reinado later declared himself their leader.


Firefights then broke out between factions of the military, and
between the army and police, and eventually degenerated into gang
violence in Dili.


Kingsbury said detaining Reinado could jeopardise the election.


"My feeling is that they don't want to catch him because they
don't want another shootout," he said.


Alkatiri resigned and was replaced by Ramos-Horta, co-winner of
the 1996 Nobel peace prize for his efforts toward resolution of
the conflict in East Timor, which Indonesia invaded in 1975.


Ramos-Horta, who is running with support from the new Undertim
party, spent 24 years in exile during the Indonesian occupation
and was the chief spokesman for East Timor's cause.


Guterres, another key challenger for the presidency, waged his
independence campaign from East Timor's mountains, where he was
the second-highest officer in the Falantil guerrilla movement.


Since independence, Guterres has been speaker of the parliament
dominated by his Fretilin party, which led the independence
struggle and which won 57 percent of the vote in pre-independence
legislative elections.


Alkatiri is still the secretary general of Fretilin, which
retains a solid base of support but has also been criticised for
a lack of political openness and use of intimidation.


"Many Timorese will vote Fretilin to the day they die," said
Andrea Bartoli, of the Centre for International Conflict
Resolution at New York's Columbia University.


"They are a strong, historic force in Timorese history. That
said, many people are disillusioned by the tactics they have
adopted to consolidate their stranglehold on power."


Fretilin has not done much for Maria Aleisu, 42, who struggles to
feed her five children by selling cigarettes, bananas and small
cakes.


"There is no work, there is no justice. The Fretilin party is
good but not the people who head it. We need someone good," she
said.


"Since 1975 we have been looking for peace," said Rita Amaral
Lino, 34, a civil servant. "With Mari Alkatiri, it ended up in a
crisis. Today I want Ramos- Horta."


The other presidential candidates are Avelino Coelho, Fransisco
Xavier do Amaral, Manuel Tilman, Joao Carrascalao and Lucia
Lobato.

