

The top US defense policy maker for Asia has quit at a critical
time for the administration of President George W. Bush under
pressure to devise a strategy to counter China's military
ambitions.


Richard Lawless, the deputy under secretary of defense for Asia
and Pacific security affairs, "has elected to retire from the US
government in July 2007 after four-and-a-half years of
distinguished service" in the Pentagon, the Defense Department
said in a statement.


Aside from dealing with China, Lawless had been a key figure in
handling the US security alliances with Japan and South Korea,
particularly in talks over the future of military bases in two
Asian allies.


"I appreciate the opportunity to serve the nation in a time of
war in the face of multiple challenges, and to have been able to
do so in the company of truly selfless patriots," Lawless said in
a brief statement.


Although Lawless, who had serious back problems and underwent
surgery, resigned due to personal reasons, his absence would be
felt, especially as the Pentagon considers strategies to cope
with an expanding Chinese military, experts said.


The Pentagon is soon expected to submit its annual report to
Congress on China's military power.


Lawless's departure "is an extraordinary loss," said Daniel
Blumenthal, the Pentagon's senior director for China, Taiwan and
Mongolia until November 2004.


"He does not see Asia through Sino-centric lenses like so many in
the administration. He is committed to a Japan and allies first
policy in Asia, where others think that what is good for China is
good for America," Bluementhal said.


"He is the rare policymaker with both a strategic vision and
operational capabilities," he added.


Richard Bush, an Asian expert at Washington-based Brookings
Institution, cautioned against "overreading the departure of one
person" and said he did not expect a big shift in policy and
direction in favor of China.


"This is happening at the same time when Congress is exerting
some pressure on the economic side of our relationship with China
and underlying all this is the reality of the situation and
reality of certain interests and the policies underway," he said.


One adjustment that has occurred over the last few months,
partially in response to a Democratic-controlled Congress, is
"more aggressiveness on economic issues, tougher enforcement of
China's economic obligations, tighter engagement with China with
respect to North Korea," Bush said.


"But all of this is at the margin," he pointed out.


Senior US officials have spoken critically of China's military
budget, expressing concerns that the Chinese are under-reporting
its size and that it is expanding too quickly.


China announced last month a 17.8-percent rise in military
spending for this year to 45 billion dollars.


US Vice President Dick Cheney said last month that China's
military build-up and its successful knocking out of one of its
ageing satellites with a ballistic missile in January were "not
consistent with Beijing's stated goal of a 'peaceful rise.'"

