

British Prime Minister Tony Blair welcomed Iran's surprise
announcement Wednesday that it was releasing 15 captured sailors,
saying there had been no negotiations to secure their freedom.


At the same time Blair paid tribute to "our friends and allies in
the region who played their part" amid unconfirmed reports that
Syria and Qatar had helped to bring about a peaceful resolution.


The British leader, who last week took the case to the UN
Security Council, said Britain had taken a "firm but calm"
approach, "not negotiating but not confronting either."


"To the Iranian people I would simply say this: we bear you no
ill will ... And the disagreements that we have with your
government we wish to resolve peacefully through dialogue," he
said in a statement outside his office at 10 Downing Street.


Iran, which remains at odds with the West over its plans to
develop nuclear power, has said that the sailors will fly out of
the country Thursday after the two-week-long crisis.


Defence Secretary Des Browne said: "It is vital that we get them
back home quickly and safely so they can be reunited with their
families and loved ones."


Asked whether any conditions had been attached to the release,
and about Ahmadinejad's claim that Britain had promised no repeat
of such incidents in a letter, a Downing Street spokesman
declined to comment.


Families of the released sailors and marines could not contain
their excitement at the news. "It's the best Easter present for
us all," Ray Cooper, uncle of Adam Sperry, one of the detainees,
told BBC television.


"It's just all ended up brilliant."


The family of another of the detainees, 24-year-old Mark Banks,
said they were planning a party for his return.


The eight sailors and seven marines were captured on March 23.
Britain insisted they were in Iraqi territorial waters, while
Tehran said they were in Iranian waters.


Britain pursued quiet diplomacy for the first few days, but after
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett hit a dead end in talks with
her Iraqi counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki on March 27, London's
patience snapped.


London gave a military briefing on its version of events the
following day and Blair vowed to ratchet up the pressure on
Tehran.


Hints of a resolution started emerging only as late as Tuesday.


Blair said then that the coming 48 hours would be crucial in
efforts to ensure the sailors' release, while Iran's top security
official Ali Larijani said there would be no need to try the
group in court.


Later that day, Larijani held talks with Blair's chief foreign
policy advisor Sir Nigel Sheinwald. That yielded a statement from
Downing Street saying both sides favoured an "early resolution".


But Ahmadinejad's announcement of the group's release at a press
conference Wednesday took even the most seasoned observers by
surprise.


William Hague, foreign affairs spokesman for Britain's main
opposition Conservative Party, welcomed the news.


"I'm sure their families and the whole country are greatly
relieved and we look forward to welcoming them home quickly and
safely," he said.


Former British foreign secretary Lord David Owen, who held office
from 1977-79, told Sky News the release could be a sign Iran
wanted to "turn over a new leaf".


He hoped that Ahmadinejad would now improve relations with
Britain and the United States and help stabilise Iraq.


"He's a hardliner. We shouldn't delude ourselves. But it's a good
step," he added.


But Mehdi Varzi, an Iranian ex-diplomat, cautioned that Iran
still felt under siege from the West.


"Iran wants to be recognised and seen as an actor in the area and
not ignored," he said.


"The message is that the Iran leadership has felt at the
receiving end of the world in the last few years."

