

Dilhara Fernando took a wicket with the last ball of the match to
seal a dramatic two-run win for Sri Lanka against England in
their World Cup Super Eights clash at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium here Wednesday.


England, set 236 to win, finished on 233 for eight when Fernando
(three for 41) bowled Ravi Bopara, whose career-best 52 off 53
balls so nearly set up an improbable win in only his fifth one-
day international.


But Sri Lanka, who'd lost a one-wicket nailbiter to South Africa,
held on with the 1996 champions moving a step closer to the semi-
finals.


England must now try to revive their ailing bid for a last four
spot against world champions Australia here Sunday.


Bopara and Paul Nixon took England to the brink of a sensational
win, after they's been down and out at at 133 for six in the 34th
over, with a stand of 87.


England needed 77 to win off the last 10 overs with four wickets
standing, Bopara and Nixon still in when 49 were required off
five.


But after wicket-keeper Nixon reversed swept Muttiah Muralitharan
for a six and a four, the target was 19 off two overs.


However, when Nixon holed out off Lasith Malinga to Sri Lanka
captain Mahela Jayawardene for 42 off 44 balls, England were 220
for seven - still requiring 16 off seven balls for victory.


But Bopara square cut Malinga's final ball for four and England
needed 12 off the last over.


His cheeky sweep for four off Fernando then made it seven off
four balls.


By the time Bopara faced the last ball three were still needed
only for the Essex all-rounder to be clean bowled.


Sajid Mahmood, who'd eearlier taken a career-best four for 50,
was two not out.


England were on course for victory at 101 for two.


But the unfortunate run out of Ian Bell (47) started a slump that
saw four wickets lost for 32 runs in 49 balls.


Together with Kevin Pietersen (58), Bell put on 90 for the third
wicket.


Well though England bowled, there was always the suspicion that
Sri Lanka, had enough runs to play with.


It certainly seemed that way as England lost both openers cheaply
to be 11 for two.


Before this match England skipper Michael Vaughan said it was
time he scored a hundred, having failed to reach three figures in
a limited overs international.


Instead the England captain, in his 82nd match at this level,
fell for nought when, shaping to glance Chaminda Vaas, he was
caught by wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara.


Pietersen, rated the world's best one-day batsman, counter-
attacked by lofting Vaas for a straight six.


Bell, the only survivor from the England side that suffered an
eight-wicket defeat at Headingley in July that saw Sri Lanka wrap
up a 5-0 one-day series victory, followed up by cutting the left-
arm quick for four.


Bell, almost run out for 39, went that way soon afterwards in
cruel fashion after a stand spanning 20 overs.


Pietersen drove left-arm spinner Sanath Jayasuriya down the pitch
and the bowler deflected the ball onto the stumps as Bell turned
to ground his bat.


Third umpire Rudi Koertzen took several minutes over the decision
before giving Bell, who'd faced 71 balls with four fours, out.


Pietersen then completed a 74-ball fifty with one six and three
fours


But two balls after sweeping Muttiah Muralitharan for four he
chipped a return catch to the star off-spinner


England were now 126 for four in the 31st over and the game was
in the balance.


It swung Sri Lanka's way when the next two wickets fell on 133.


Andrew Flintoff (two) miscued Fernando to Malinga at mid-on
before Collingwood was lbw to the paceman for 14.


Upul Tharanga (62) and Jayawardene (56) were the major
contributors in a Sri Lanka innings which stalled after
Jayasuriya, who scored 115 in the 113-run win over the West
Indies on Sunday, made a typically rapid 25.


Sri Lanka next play New Zealand, another side tipped to challenge
Australia, in Grenada on Thursday.

