

The UN aid chief on Wednesday warned of a humanitarian
catastrophe in Sudan's strife-torn Darfur region if attacks on
humanitarian workers there continue.


"Despite its scale and success in sustaining millions and saving
literally hundreds of thousands of lives, the Darfur humanitarian
operation is increasingly fragile," John Holmes, the UN emergency
relief coordinator, told the Security Council on his return from
a tour of Sudan, Chad and the Central African Republic (CAR).


"If things do not get better, or if there were more serious
incidents involving humanitarian workers, some organizations
could start to withdraw and the operation could start to
unravel," he added. "Then we could face a rapid humanitarian
catastrophe...We must do everything in our power to avoid it."


"Staff have been physically and verbally abused, offices and
residences raided and personal belongings stolen," Holmes said.
"Vehicles are routinely hijacked at gunpoint, often in broad
daylight."


He made it clear that all parties to the conflict -- government
forces and rebels -- "appear to be responsible for these
continuing and widespread violations of international
humanitarian law and abuses of human rights."


He noted that well over a third of the population of Darfur was
now displaced, at 2.2 million people and that at the current rate
over half of the population there could be in that situation in
another 18 months or so.


"Violations of humanitarian law and abuses of human rights
continue unchecked," he said.


At least 200,000 people have died since the Darfur conflict
erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death toll is much
higher.


The conflict broke out when rebels from minority tribes took up
arms to demand an equal share of national resources. This
prompted a heavy-handed crackdown by Khartoum and its proxy
militia called the Janjaweed.


Holmes, a former British ambassador to France, also underscored
the regional dimension of the Darfur conflict.


"The spillover effect from Darfur is clear, not least in eastern
Chad," he said. "If we are going to solve the individual
conflicts, in a lasting way, we therefore need a regional
approach where the issues are tackled as far as possible in
parallel."


He also called for better protection of CAR's border with Darfur,
through the deployment of an international peacekeeping force.


"It is clear that the state is no longer present (in northeastern
CAR)  under any form whatsoever," Holmes said.


He urged the UN, non-governmental organizations and international
donors to respond to the UN 54-million-dollar (41 million euro)
humanitarian appeal for CAR, which as of March 31 was funded only
by 18 percent.

