

Three days after clinching a mega free trade deal with South
Korea, the United States warned Wednesday it would not sign the
agreement unless Seoul allowed full access to American beef
imports.


"We would not sign it if we do not have a clear path on beef,"
said Sean Spicer, the spokesman for United States Trade
Representative (USTR) Susan Schwab, after a media briefing on the
deal clinched in Seoul over the weekend.


Seoul's ban on US beef over fears of mad cow disease is not
officially part of the free-trade agreement crafted after 10
months of negotiations but US lawmakers have warned they would
block any deal unless the issue is resolved.


Spicer said under US law, the deal -- the biggest free trade
agreement since the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement --
had to be signed before President George W. Bush's powers to
fast-track trade agreements expired at end June, and then sent to
Congress for approval.


But there was a need for a "clear path before we were to sign or
send out" the deal to Congress, he said.


Before a 2003 import ban imposed over fears of mad cow disease,
South Korea bought 850 million dollars' worth of US beef a year.


Seoul last year agreed to accept US boneless beef but rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments.


"We have made very clear and have been very clear all along that
we don't believe our Congress will feel comfortable approving
this deal without the Korean beef market being fully reopened,"
Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia told the briefing.


"And that is something I think both sides do appreciate," he
said.


Senior US Senator Max Baucus had said that the negotiators in
Seoul made only "vague promises to resolve this issue at some
point in the future" and added that he would block the trade
agreement until the South Korean beef market is reopened.


"I will oppose the Korea Free Trade Agreement, and in fact I will
not allow it to move through the Senate, unless and until Korea
completely lifts its ban on US beef," Baucus, head of the
powerful Senate finance committee, said this week.

