

Environmentalists lamented Wednesday plans to sink a Canadian
destroyer during a military training exercise in the Pacific next
month, saying the navy is "treating the ocean like a garbage
dump."


The decommissioned HMCS Huron will be struck by a barrage of
Canadian and US missiles, aircraft machine guns, naval cannons
and torpedoes until it sinks two kilometers (1.2 miles) to the
ocean floor off the west coast of Vancouver Island, the navy
said.


Environment Canada has approved the disposal plan.


But activist Jennifer Lash of Living Oceans, backed by opposition
New Democratic Party MP Nathan Cullen and Green Party leader
Elizabeth May, told AFP the navy is "treating the ocean like a
garbage dump."


"I think they assume that because it's deep sea, beyond the
continental shelf, there's nothing down there that could be
affected. But there's an important ecosystem down there and we
shouldn't be dumping ships there."


"People don't just drive their car off a cliff into the lake when
they're done with it," Cullen told the Ottawa Citizen.


The Iroquois-class destroyer, stripped down to 1,118 metric
tonnes of raw steel and longer than a football field, is believed
to be the first Canadian battleship to be sunk in a live-fire
exercise, a navy spokeswoman said.


"The decision to sink the Huron was made after an extensive
analysis of disposal options such as creating an artificial reef
or selling it as scrap metal," Lieutenant Carole Brown told AFP.


"It was decided that this exercise would give our navy valuable
training and test new weapons systems."


The attack will take place in clear weather to allow positioning
of the Huron outside any commercial fishery, and all petroleum-
based products such as oil and lubricants have been removed,
according to Environment Canada.


As well, missiles and torpedoes that hit the Huron will contain
no radioactive material, leaving only trace amounts of lead on
the ocean bottom.


"We're good environmental stewards," said Lieutenant Brown. "It
will be sunk in waters 2,000 meters (6,500 feet) deep and well
clear of known marine mammals and fishing grounds."


The Huron, commissioned in 1972, served on blockade patrols
during the 1991 Gulf War, intercepted illegal Chinese immigrants
in 1999 and was decommissioned in 2005 to furnish spare parts for
three other Canadian destroyers.


The date of its demise has not yet been announced.


While this live-fire sinking may be a first in Canada, US and
Canadian warships did take part in a similar exercise last year
off the coast of Hawaii, submerging a retired American warship,
the USS O'Brien.

