

Aid agencies on Thursday warned of a "race against time" to get
emergency supplies to thousands of victims of the Solomons
earthquake and tsunami as a lack of ships and high winds slowed
relief efforts.


Monday's disaster left an estimated 5,400 people homeless and
thousands more without drinking water and food in the isolated
western region of the impoverished South Pacific nation. At least
30 people were killed.


Aid organisations say the quick distribution of emergency
supplies -- especially clean drinking water -- is vital to
prevent widespread illness.


"This is a race against time and it is becoming clear that access
to clean water and proper sanitation will be crucial over the
next few weeks, as there are already reports of outbreaks of
water-borne disease," said Oxfam New Zealand's executive
director, Barry Coates.


Aid workers have reported cases of diarrhoea among children in
Gizo, the Western Province capital and a popular tourist spot
that was hit hard by the 8.0-magnitude quake and the subsequent
tsunami, with many buildings destroyed.


Only one of three shiploads of aid due to have left the capital
Honiara on Wednesday has left on schedule, as authorities have
had trouble gathering the needed supplies, government
communications director Alfred Maesulia said.


"The effort is to get those two boats to leave as soon as
possible (Thursday) but there are difficulties here because some
materials they would like to put on those boats are not
available," he said.


The distribution of aid in isolated areas around Gizo has been
further delayed due to a lack of boats and strong winds, which
have made sailing to remote coastal villages and small islands
difficult, he said.


Maesulia said the government believed aid would soon reach most
victims, many of who remain camped out on high ground because of
aftershocks that continue to rock the region.


"We believe by this weekend we should be able to get supplies to
most people in the affected areas," he said.


The aid effort was due to get a boost Thursday with the arrival
of an air force plane from Australia. A French military aircraft
carrying supplies from New Caledonia was also due to fly to Gizo.


At least 30 people have been confirmed dead, according to police,
but the official toll is expected to rise once the most recently
found bodies have been identified, Maesulia said.

