

A new drug that could offer a lifeline to HIV postive patients
who have grown resistant to the current arsenal of antiretroviral
drugs has shown promise in a longer-term study.


Darunavir -- marketed as Prezista -- sustained patients with
advanced HIV infection in good health nearly a year after
starting the regimen.


At present, more than a fifth of patients receiving combinations
of existing antiretroviral drugs experience "treatment failure"
within six years.


The drug is already licensed in the United States and the
European Union (EU) for use with an existing drug, ritonavir.


Approval was given on the basis of evidence from patients at the
24-week mark.


The new paper, which looks at data from the same research
initiative, said the improvement in patients was sustained after
48 weeks, with tolerable, low-level side effects.


In the ongoing Power 1 and Power 2 studies, patients with
advanced HIV infection are being assigned either to a "control"
group that takes existing antiretrovirals or to a group that
takes these drugs as well as twice-daily doses of darunavir and
ritonavir.


After 48 weeks, 61 percent of those taking the new drug achieved
a 1,000-fold drop in concentrations of the AIDS virus in their
blood, compared with only 15 percent in the control group.


Indeed, almost half in the darunavir reduced their viral level to
the lowest detectable mark, while only 10 percent in the control
group did this.


Also encouraging was the count of CD4 immune cells, which is a
good benchmark of disease progression.


The darunavir group increased their CD4 count on average by 102
cells per microlitre, compared to only 19 cells per microlitre in
the control group.


The paper appears in the upcoming issue of The Lancet on
Saturday.


Darunavir is in the class of so-called protease inhibitors --
molecules that interfere with an enzyme that helps the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to reproduce after it has penetrated
an immune cell.


Darunavir is made by Tibotec Pharmaceuticals Ltd., a division of
the pharmaceutical giant Janssen-Cilag. Tibotec is sponsoring the
drug study, whose data are assessed independently.

