

The world's most spectacular natural wonders, ranging from
Himalayan glaciers to the Amazon River basin, are threatened by
the ravages of global warming, the green group WWF said Thursday.


It singled out 10 micro-regions across the globe where climate
change has already taken a toll, warning that these delicately-
balanced ecosystems are, in many cases, in danger of disappearing
outright.


"While adaptation to changing climate can save some, only drastic
action by governments to reduce emissions" of greenhouse gases
can stop the "complete destruction" of others, said WWF scientist
Lara Hansen.


Up to 60 percent of the Amazon forest -- home to nearly a third
of the planet's land species -- could become semi-arid savanna if
average global temperatures rise 2 to 3 C (3.6-5.4 F) above 1990
levels, the WWF said.


It is very likely that some species will become extinct even
before they are identified.


The WWF report comes a day before the world's top climate
scientists in Brussels release a massive report, the second of
three, predicting dire consequences from global warming,
especially for poor nations and species diversity.


"There is high confidence that climate change will result in
extinction of many species and reduction in the diversity of
ecosystems," says the 1,400-page final draft report, a copy of
which was obtained by AFP.


The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's first report,
released in February, forecast temperatures would rise between
1.8-4.0 C (3.2-7.2 F) by century's end. A final volume, due to be
released in early May, will discuss how warming can be mitigated.


Australia's Great Barrier Reef along with other reef ecosystems
-- which take up only a quarter of a percent of ocean floor
surfaces but sustain 25 percent of all marine life -- are rapidly
declining, the WWF warned.


The IPCC report says that an increase of only 2 C (3.6 F) will
result in the bleaching of the world's reefs, with catastrophic
consequences for species diversity and local economies that
depend on them.


The world's largest remaining mangrove forest, located in the Bay
of Bengal where the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers converge in
Bangladesh, is also on the WWF's list of climate change
"hotspots".


Like other low-lying mega-deltas, this one -- home to the
endangered Bengal tiger -- is threatened by rising sea levels and
increasingly violent monsoons and rainstorms.


Other sites on the list include the Caribbean home to the
critically endangered Hawksbill turtle; Mexico's Chihuahua
Desert, North America's largest; and the Valdivian rain forests
in Chile and Argentina, sole habitat of the Fitzroya, also called
the alerce, a South American pine whose lifespan can exceed 3,000
years.


The WWF also sound the alarm for the Upper Yangtze River region,
one of only two native habitats for the panda; the Bering Sea,
which supports huge populations of fish, shellfish, birds and
marine mammals; and the coastal forests and marine eco-regions of
East Africa.


Greenhouse gases are invisible gases that trap heat from the Sun,
causing atmospheric temperatures to rise and eventually heating
up the oceans and land.


Man-made emissions come from the burning of fossil fuels -- coal,
gas and oil -- that are the backbone of today's energy supplies
and by land use in agriculture and forestry.


There are also natural sources of these gases, but those
emissions are discounted by scientists as the driver for today's
deeply troubling rise in global temperatures.

