

US PGA Tour event winners, who qualified for the Masters from
1972 through 1999, will once again receive invitations to the
year's first major championship starting next week.


Augusta National Golf Club chairman Billy Payne announced here
Wednesday on the eve of the 71st Masters that qualifying changes
for the 2008 Masters would revive the tradition with other
qualifying avenues eliminated.


"I can remember innumerable times where winners of tournament
events would be more excited to hear they had qualified for the
Masters than to receive the first-prize check," Payne said.


"It was an exciting component of golf that really only the
Masters could offer and we all thought it was appropriate that we
bring it back."


Winners of US PGA regular-season and playoff events that apply
full points toward the season-ending US PGA Tour Championship
will receive a spot in the Masters, starting at next week's
Heritage Classic and ending with the final Masters tuneup event
in 2008.


All players who qualify for the prior year's Tour Championship
will be invited as well. This marks the first year of a playoff
system culminating in a 30-man showdown in September at Atlanta.


Eliminated will be Masters invitations to players 31 to 40 on the
previous year's season-ending US PGA Tour money list and the top
10 on the money list the week before the Masters.


"Our goal is to have the strongest field possible and these
qualifications accomplish that objective," Payne said.


"We missed the excitement of a winner of a PGA event immediately
qualifying for the Masters. Our qualifications also reflect
golf's current landscape and we think they will serve the Masters
well."


Notably absent from the qualifying events are the seven
tournaments after the Tour Championship, which serve mainly to
determine the final money rankings for lower-level players trying
to assure spots on the next year's tour.


"We're trying to identify the best players in the world and at
the same time keep the field size within a manageable number.
Opening up the qualification any further than the Tour
Championship puts those numbers at risk," Payne said.

