

The parents of "American Taliban" John Walker Lindh Wednesday
called on US President George W. Bush to free their son,
contrasting his 20-year jail term with the nine-month sentence
given to Australian Guantanamo Bay detainee David Hicks.


Lawyers for Lindh's family told a press conference they would
file a petition with Bush and the Justice Department, calling for
the 26-year-old's sentence to be commuted.


They said Lindh's sentence was unduly harsh compared to the nine-
month sentence Hicks received at a US military hearing last week
which saw him agree to plead guilty to a terrorism charge.


"Given the result in the Hicks case we are filing with the
president and the Department of Justice a request for commutation
of John Walker Lindh's sentence," lawyer Jim Brosnahan told
reporters.


"It is very simple. It is a question of proportionality, it is a
question of fairness," he added, describing the plea as a "simple
cry for justice."


Lindh's mother Marilyn Walker said her son, who was detained in
Afghanistan in December 2001 while fighting for the Taliban
against Northern Alliance forces, had never fought against US
forces and never endorsed terrorism.


"We hope that President Bush will respond today with sympathy and
compassion ... we ask President Bush to please commute John's
prison sentence," she said.


"John has been in prison for more than five years and it is time
for him to come home," she added.


Asked if she felt her son's treatment was unfair in the light of
Hicks' nine- month term, she replied: "It's quite a difference
... what more can I say?"


Lindh's father, Frank Lindh, told reporters: "I think it is
unfair. Remember that John did not plead guilty to any sort of
terrorism offense.


"David Hicks pleaded guilty to assisting a terrorist organization
and yet he will be home with his family in nine months. We wish
John could be home with us in nine months time.


"We really do hope the president will commute John's sentence and
allow him to come home," he said.


Lindh pleaded not guilty to a 10-count indictment in early 2002
which included charges of providing support to foreign terrorist
organizations as well as contributing services to the Taliban and
Al-Qaeda.


In a later plea deal, however, all terrorist-related charges were
dropped in exchange for Lindh pleading guilty to two counts of
serving in the Taliban army and carrying weapons.


He was jailed for 20 years without parole in October 2002 and is
currently being held at the Supermax maximum-security federal
prison in Colorado.


Brosnahan said Lindh had been a victim of the climate of fear
that gripped the United States in the months following the
September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.


"The time following 9/11 was a time of tremendous turmoil, of
concern and worry," he said. "And there was a feeling that
anybody connected to the Taliban should be treated very harshly.
And John was treated very harshly."


Frank Lindh echoed Brosnahan's comments.


"In the atmosphere of the time, the best John could get was a
plea bargain and a 20-year sentence," he said. "We love our son
very much, he was wrongly accused when he was found in
Afghanistan."


Brosnahan said it was the third time Lindh's family had
petitioned the president and the Justice Department.

