

Didier Drogba kept Chelsea's Champions League challenge alive
with a second half equaliser to earn a 1-1 draw against Valencia
on Wednesday.


Drogba came to Chelsea's rescue after David Silva's stunning
strike had put Valencia in control of a hard-fought quarter-final
first leg clash at Stamford Bridge.


Jose Mourinho's side will feel they are still in with a chance of
reaching the semi-finals, but they will have to improve on this
tepid display if they are to overcome Valencia in next Tuesday's
return at the Mestalla.


Valencia were without a host of key players through injury and
suspension, but the Spanish side still coped comfortably with
Chelsea's sporadic threats.


The English champions never really found their stride and are now
in danger of not only losing their Premiership title to
Manchester United, but also missing out on Europe's elite club
competition for a third successive season under Mourinho.


With Valencia under-strength, Mourinho had opted to go for the
throat, fielding an attack-minded team that included strikers
Drogba, Andriy Shevchenko and Salomon Kalou.


Chelsea's players got the message and were on the front foot
immediately.


Drogba was just unable to reach Ashley Cole's cross before Kalou
rattled the crossbar in the 10th minute with a curling shot from
the edge of the area.


Valencia probed patiently at Chelsea's defence and Silva gave a
hint of their potential when he blasted into the side-netting
from a tight angle.


Silva squandered a much better chance midway through the half
when Joaquin's shot fell to him 10 yards from goal. The Spanish
forward had time to pick his spot but scuffed his effort tamely
wide.


The knowledge that failing to take a lead to the Mestalla could
be fatal seemed to pray on Chelsea and they started to rush their
attacks when more composure was needed.


Their aggressive game-plan was also leaving spaces at the back
for Valencia to exploit and Asier Del Horno, playing against his
former club, brought Petr Cech into action with a looping long
range shot.


Mourinho's side had been warned and Silva took full advantage of
those gaps with a goal of the highest quality after half an hour.


Picking the ball up wide on the left, Silva drove forward before
unleashing a ferocious 30-yard strike that arrowed into the top
corner of Cech's goal.


Chelsea grew increasingly frustrated at their failure to test
Valencia and Michael Ballack held his head in despair when he
glanced an effort wide just before the break. Drogba fared little
better as he shot hurried over with the last kick of the half.


Valencia keeper Santiago Canizares almost handed Chelsea an
equaliser when he palmed a cross to Ricardo Carvalho, but the
Portuguese defender couldn't react in time.


Quique Sanchez Flores's team had kept Drogba relatively quiet,
but an awful piece of defending from Roberto Ayala gifted the
Ivory Coast forward a goal in the 53rd minute.


Cole sent a long pass over Ayala and the veteran Argentina
centre-back missed his attempted clearance, allowing Drogba to
surge past him and loop a header over the out-of-position
Canizares.


With highly-rated Valencia forward David Villa completely
anonymous, the visitors struggled to pose any danger to the Blues
for long periods after the interval.


They were content to sit back and soak up Chelsea's attacks and
Mourinho knew he had to gamble to find a breakthrough.


He sent on Joe Cole, back after four months out with a foot
injury, and Shaun Wright-Phillips as he tried to increase the
pressure on Valencia.


Carvalho had a shot blocked in the 84th minute before
Shevchenko's over-head kicked flashed wide, but Chelsea had run
out of ideas.

