

Hundreds of inhabitants of this northern Polish town are on the
sharp end of a legal battle rooted in Germany's World War II
defeat, a case that has revived barely-buried fear and hatred.


Lidzbark Warminski, an unassuming community of 17,000 people, has
found itself in the spotlight because of a lawsuit at the
European Court of Human Rights by a German association seeking
the restitution of property that lies in present-day Poland.


The case, filed late last year by the small, privately-funded
Prussian Trust, has aggravated simmering resentment between
Poland and its little-loved western neighbour.


One of the 22 claimants represented by the trust is Felix Hoppe,
who was born in 1931 near what was then the German town of
Heilsberg in East Prussia.


The Hoppe family's holdings -- both land and buildings -- were
seized by the Polish authorities after World War II and are now
home to 2,000 residents of Lidzbark Warminski.


"I'm very worried. I live in a house which, so they say, belongs
to the town. The mayor keeps reassuring us, but I've heard it
said that the house is part of the lawsuit," said Maria, a forty-
something industrial worker who declined to give her surname.


The Prussian Trust lawsuit stems from the redrawing of borders
agreed by the Soviet Union, Britain and the United States at the
1945 Potsdam conference.


Cementing the defeat of the Nazis, the victorious Allies awarded
large parts of eastern Germany to Poland, in "compensation" for
the swathes of territory Warsaw lost to the Soviet Union.


Millions of Germans, including the teenage Hoppe, were forced
from their homes by the advancing Soviet army or later by Polish
security forces, often brutally.


The property and land they left was seized by Polish authorities
and repopulated largely by Poles who had been expelled from the
east.


At the time, the land loss was widely seen as a fair payback for
the bloody Nazi occupation of Poland, which cost the lives of six
million Polish citizens.


The regions, which had been German for centuries, make up around
a third of modern Poland.


According to a recent opinion poll, a quarter of Germans consider
that the former territories are still German and 40 percent
regret their loss.


Hoppe said it was high time for redress.


"I don't have any moral scruples. Why should I? This property was
stolen from Germany," he told AFP from his current home in
Muenster, in western Germany.


"It was a human rights violation. We suffered enormously from the
expulsions," he said.


Asked what his message is for the current inhabitants, Hoppe
said: "I would say to the people in Lidzbark Warminski, 'You live
on someone else's property.' This lawsuit is legitimate."


In Lidzbark Warminski, local historian Slawomir Skowronek
rejected Hoppe's stance.


"This case is immoral," Skowronek said.


"The Second World War destroyed the old world. Heilsberg would
have stayed a little German town and Hoppe would have kept his
property if the government elected by his parents hadn't made war
on the whole world," he said.


The property claims are seen by many in Poland as part of a wider
bid by Germans to portray themselves as victims of World War II.


A flood of suits is unlikely, however, because the Prussian
Trust's action is far from well-supported in Germany, even by the
powerful Confederation of the Displaced (BDV), which represents
two million Germans.


The trust's action has sparked a diplomatic dispute, as Warsaw
repeatedly calls on the German government to act to prevent
property lawsuits, saying they go against a 1990 treaty which
said that Germany had no territorial claims in Poland.


The treaty did not deal with the thorny question of claims by
individuals.


Poland's conservative President Lech Kaczynski has made a string
of scathing attacks on Germany over the issue.


He has previously warned that Warsaw could counter German
lawsuits with multi- billion-euro (dollar) cases for destruction
during the Nazi occupation.


But Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel, in line with all post-war
German governments, has remained as neutral as possible on the
issue to avoid clashing head on with the large numbers of
affected Germans.


"The German government is playing games," said Skowronek.


Skowronek said he agreed with the Polish government's position
that Berlin should pledge to meet the cost of all property claims
against Poland -- a solution ruled out by German authorities
because of the potentially colossal sums involved.

