

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene said he wasn't sure how many
more tight finishes he could take at this World Cup after his
side's nerve-jangling two-run win against England in the Super
Eights.


The 1996 champions survived a dramatic England rally at the Sir
Vivian Richards Stadium when pace bowler Dilhara Fernando clean
bowled Ravi Bopara off the last ball of the match.


England, who'd collapsed to 133 for six in pursuit of 236 for
victory, finished on 233 for eight.


For Sri Lanka, who'd lost by one wicket to South Africa last week
after fast bowler Lasith Malinga's record four wickets in four
balls almost set up an astounding win, victory meant they'd taken
a step nearer the semi-finals.


"I don't want to play this kind of cricket," a relieved
Jayawardene told reporters. "There was no strategy, I can't even
remember what I was thinking.


"The guys have a lot of character in the team and they showed it
today again. I'm very happy with the two points."


Bopara, who made a career-best 52 off 53 balls, put on 87 for the
seventh wicket with Paul Nixon (42) that nearly saw England home.


"The South Africa game was also too close for comfort but it just
shows that everyone is fighting for it. It's an important
tournament and finishes like this are good for cricket," said
Jayawardene.


"We had them at 133 for six and thought we were just one ball
away from exposing the tail. But Paul Nixon and Ravi Bopara
batted really well and took it to the last few overs."


One concern for Sri Lanka was the way in which their innings
stalled after dangerman Sanath Jayasuriya went for a brisk 25.


Opener Upul Tharanga top-scored with 62 and Jayawardene himself
scored 56. But the skipper was concerned by his side's failure to
press on.


"We were probably 20 runs short again today," he said after
Wednesday's match. "I threw away my wicket. In the last 10 overs
we did not capitalise and lost quite a few wickets. We need to
iron out all those problems," he said.


Sri Lanka's next match is against New Zealand, also on course for
the last four, in Grenada a week on Thursday.

