

Daisuke Matsuzaka makes his makes his much-anticipated Major
League Baseball debut here Thursday, when he will start to answer
the questions pulsating among baseball pundits.


Does Dice-K's fabled "gyroball" really exist? Or is it merely a
phantom haunting the minds of opposing batters?


How will Matsuzaka, a superstar since high school in Japan, mesh
with his major league teammates? And will he be worth the 103.1
million dollars the Boston Red Sox have spent on him?


The Red Sox spent 51.1 million dollars just for the right to
negotiate with Matsuzaka, then inked him to a 52 million-dollar
contract.


The 26-year-old right-hander, who powered Japan to victory in
last year's inaugural World Baseball Classic, went 108-60 for
Seibu with a 2.95 earned run average and struck out 1,355 batters
in 1,402 2/3 innings.


In spring training, he has appeared poised to live up to his
billing - and his hefty price-tag - gyroball or no.


"I could say, 'I have that ball.' Or I could say, 'What pitch are
you calling a gyroball?'" he said when asked in training camp
about the spiralling pitch, said to break sharply down and away
from right-handed hitters.


"Overall, I will say that, if I have that pitch, I will use it."


It would be just one of many Matsuzaka has at his disposal -
including four-seam and two-seam fastballs, a sinker, a
curveball, a slider and a devilish change-up prized by the Red
Sox.


"His ability to manipulate the baseball, change speeds, adding
and subtracting - he has all the things that make a good
pitcher," says Red Sox manager Terry Francona.


"He has a lot of different pitches that he throws for strikes at
different speeds. He can throw strikes when he is behind the
count with an off-speed pitch. There's a reason we got this guy."


The Royals, who send Zack Greinke to the mound on Thursday, were
looking forward to facing Matsuzaka.


"I watched him throw on ESPN," said Kansas City's Ryan Shealy.
"It looks like he's got good command. It looks like he throws a
lot of strikes with offspeed stuff. But we're the first team to
get to face him, so it's exciting."


Outfielder Mark Teahen said he wasn't expecting to see any secret
pitch from Matsuzaka. Whatever Matsuzaka shows on Thursday,
Teahan said, it will just be the start of a long season.


"I've heard about a 'gyroball', but you don't know anything until
you've seen it," Teahen said. "It's his first start. Maybe we hit
around or maybe he pitches well against us, but that's all it is,
his first start.


"You can't judge him off one start."

