

Jose Mourinho believes Chelsea are still on course to reach the
Champions League semi-finals despite failing to build an
advantage ahead of their testing trip to Valencia.


The last eight tie is finely poised at 1-1 after Didier Drogba's
second half equaliser - making him the first Chelsea player since
Kerry Dixon over 20 years ago to score 30 goals in a season -
cancelled out David Silva's stunning strike in the first leg at
Stamford Bridge on Wednesday.


While Valencia will be confident of going through in front of
their own fans next Tuesday, Mourinho has warned the Spaniards
that his side will thrive in the intimidating atmosphere at the
Mestalla Stadium.


And even if the English champions don't make it to a semi-final
showdown against Liverpool or PSV Eindhoven, Mourinho claimed it
wouldn't be the end of the world.


The Blues boss jokingly said he wasn't concerned about the result
because he will go to London's Earls Court arena to watch WWE
wrestling with his children on the day of the last four first leg
if Chelsea aren't involved.


While Mourinho had his tongue firmly in his cheek, he will be
well aware that his future at Chelsea could rest on his side's
ability to overcome a major hurdle in Spain.


He said: "It is 1-1. It is not 0-3. If you ask Ronald Koeman
about PSV I think he will say he does not think he can beat
Liverpool at Anfield 4-0.


"But Chelsea can win in Valencia, Chelsea can draw 2-2 or go to
extra-time. Of course it is difficult because they have a good
team and they play at home.


"It is not my biggest challenge. If we win we go to the semi-
final, if we lose I go to Earl Court for the wrestling. It is
April 24, the same day as the semi- final. So if I don't go to
the semi-final, I go to the wrestling with my kids."


Mourinho hopes Valencia will be overconfident after apparently
getting the hard work done in London.


"Chelsea tried to win and Valencia tried to draw," he said.


"They were a bit lucky with an amazing goal because they didn't
create a lot. We hit the bar and had chances around their goal,
but we have to accept that the result was fair.


"I think in Mestalla everybody is thinking they are one step
ahead and maybe everybody is enjoying this result. But if I was
in their place I would be very cautious.


"A team that plays at home normally has the advantage and I
imagine that the Valencia players feel more comfortable at the
Mestalla than here. But if we have a good referee there who is
not influenced by the enthusiastic atmosphere why can't we get a
result?"


Chelsea had started brightly and Drogba was just unable to reach
Ashley Cole's cross before Salomon Kalou rattled the crossbar
with a curling shot from the edge of the area.


Silva squandered a glorious chance midway through the half when
Joaquin's shot fell to him 10 yards from goal. The Spanish
forward had time to pick his spot but scuffed his effort tamely
wide.


But he made amends with a brilliant strike after half an hour.
Picking the ball up wide on the left, Silva drove forward before
unleashing a ferocious 30-yard strike that arrowed into the top
corner of Petr Cech's goal.


Valencia had kept Drogba relatively quiet, but an awful piece of
defending from Roberto Ayala gifted the Ivory Coast forward a
goal in the 53rd minute.


Cole sent a long pass over Ayala and the veteran Argentina
centre-back missed his attempted clearance, allowing Drogba to
surge past him and loop a header over the out-of-position
Santiago Canizares.


Valencia manager Quique Sanchez Flores admitted he was satisfied
with the result because it meant the tie would be decided on home
turf.


"I think we have got objective one achieved, which is to take the
game into the second leg," he said. "The tie will now be settled
as the Mestalla which is in our favour.


"We will have a more offensive approach because we will be
playing at home and David Villa will have a bigger role to play.
At home we will see the attacking side of David and he will be
creating chances for himself.


"We are going to set up in the same way we did in the second leg
against Inter Milan in the last round. We will try to forget we
have scored a goal.


"It would be foolish to try and sit back and defend against a
team like Chelsea."

