

Fast-rising New Zealand batsman Ross Taylor hopes the fickle
Guyana weather doesn't rain on the Black Caps' World Cup parade
when they face Ireland on Monday.


Torrential rain prevented New Zealand from training on Wednesday
and it also stopped Taylor from testing his recovery from a
hamstring strain which has sidelined him from the Super Eights.


"It could put us back a little bit if it was to rain and we were
to share the points with Ireland," said Taylor.


"But if we can continue with the way we have been playing, I am
sure we can overcome Ireland - if we do play."


Taylor admitted that he didn't know a lot about Cup debutants
Ireland who stunned world cricket by knocking out Pakistan in the
first round.


"It's obviously a team we don't play very often, if at all. We
just have to get information from the games they have played in
the tournament. Hopefully, that's enough to get us through," said
the 23-year-old batsman.


New Zealand, after their all-win finish in the group stages and
victories over the West Indies and Bangladesh in the Super
Eights, have a 100-percent record in the competition and look
well set for a place in the semi-finals.


"We are trying our hardest and just want to concentrate on
Ireland. If we can do that, then come semi-final time, we will be
ready to go," said Taylor, who termed his chances of playing on
Monday as "70 percent."


Taylor, who made his mark with a brilliant 117 against Australia
at Auckland in February, failed to score against England before
notching an attractive 85 against Kenya.


He was then struck down by the injury.


"It's getting better slowly. It's been quite frustrating, but
hopefully on Thursday, weather permitting, I can start sprinting
and give it more of a test. Hopefully I will have a better idea
of where I am.


"It's been quite furstrating. There was only a slight tear in the
game against Kenya and it has taken two weeks to get over it. I
ran at about 80 percent in Antigua. I am praying that I can start
sprinting on Thursday."


Taylor hoped New Zealand can concentrate on their semi-final goal
despite suffering a catalogue of injuries.


"There are always going to be injuries in the sport we are
playing. You just have to get used to of it," he said.


New Zealand have lost fast bowler Daryl Tuffey and opener Lou
Vincent through injuries, while pacemen Michael Mason and Mark
Gillespie are also on the injury list.


Taylor said New Zealand was also looking at other teams' progress
in the competition.


"We try not to, but I think it is just natural to do that (to
follow other teams). When you are in a tournament situation, it's
quite easy to look at how other people are playing and where you
are on the points table."

