

Three days after clinching a mega free trade deal with South
Korea, the United States warned Wednesday it would not sign the
agreement unless Seoul allowed full access to American beef
imports.


"We would not sign it if we do not have a clear path on beef,"
said Sean Spicer, the spokesman for United States Trade
Representative (USTR) Susan Schwab, after a media briefing on the
deal clinched in Seoul over the weekend.


It was the clearest indication yet that the administration of
President George W. Bush would tear apart the agreement if Seoul
does not relent and lift a ban on US beef over fears of mad cow
disease before the end of June.


Amid the strong beef lobby, several key US lawmakers have
threatened to kill the free trade deal crafted after 10 months of
negotiations without the full reopening of the Korean beef
market.


Spicer said under US law, the deal -- the biggest free trade
agreement since the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement --
had to be signed by the two sides before Bush's powers to fast-
track trade deals expired at the end of June, and then sent to
Congress for approval.


But there was a need for a "clear path before we were to sign or
send out" the deal to Congress, he said.


South Korea was a major market for American beef -- worth an
annual 850 million dollars -- before a 2003 import ban imposed
over fears of mad cow disease.


Seoul last year agreed to accept US boneless beef but rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments.


"We have made very clear and have been very clear all along that
we don't believe our Congress will feel comfortable approving
this deal without the Korean beef market being fully reopened,"
Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia told the briefing.


"And that is something I think both sides do appreciate," he
said.


Senior US Senator Max Baucus had said that the negotiators in
Seoul made only "vague promises to resolve this issue at some
point in the future" and added that he would block the trade
agreement until the South Korean beef market is reopened.


"I will oppose the Korea Free Trade Agreement, and in fact I will
not allow it to move through the Senate, unless and until Korea
completely lifts its ban on US beef," Baucus, head of the
powerful Senate finance committee, said this week.


Aside from beef, US auto industry supporters allege the trade
pact does little to address hidden Korean barriers to the auto
trade. There were also concerns that rice has been excluded from
the deal.


Bhatia defended the auto sector provisions in the pact, saying
"it is the strongest automobile package that exists in any free
trade agreement and has taken carefully into consideration views
expressed by industry and also by members of Congress."


Under the agreement, he said US auto manufacturers could be
assured of elimination of tariff and non tariff barriers in the
Korean market.


"Without this agreement, there is no such assurance. So, the
question becomes, are you are better off with it or without it."


But Democratic lawmaker Sander Levin of Michigan said the Koreans
got what they wanted -- immediate elimination of the US tariff on
most autos and on all auto parts as well as eventual elimination
of the tariff on trucks.


"The US did not get what was needed -- an agreement that assures
that the US automotive industry will no longer face the barriers
to their products, that trade will be truly a two-way street," he
said.


South Korea sells 700,000 vehicles in the US annually while the
US exports fewer than 5,000 to Korea.


On the exclusion of rice from the agreement, Bhatia said
Washington pushed "very hard" but "it became clear in the very
end that Korea was simply unable to accept the inclusion of rice
in this deal.


"We had therefore the decision to make between a very, very good
deal that was achievable or a perfect deal that would not be
achievable," he said.

