

Democratic newcomer Barack Obama has raked in 25 million dollars
so far for his presidential bid, almost matching Hillary Clinton
and presaging a tough fight to win the party's nomination.


"The Obama for America campaign today announced that it will
report raising at least 25 million dollars from more than 100,000
people in the first quarter of 2007, with at least 23.5 million
dollars eligible to be spent in the Democratic primary," his
campaign said in a statement Wednesday.


The announcement put the charismatic Illinois senator just a
million dollars shy of front-runner Clinton, who raised a record-
breaking 26 million dollars in the first three months of the
year.


Obama, 45, who formally declared his candidacy in the 2008 White
House race in February, has rocketed to political stardom, and
has high hopes of becoming the first African-American president.


Only just over two years into his first six-year term in the
Senate, with easy oratorical skills and a brilliant smile, Obama
leapt to fame with a speech that electrified the party's 2004
Democratic National Convention.


But he takes on a formidable opponent in Clinton, the former
first lady who together with her husband Bill, the former US
president, wields tremendous political clout.


The remarkable results in the dash for cash, given Clinton's
influence in the Democratic Party establishment, put the two
senators in a neck-and-neck race.


"This overwhelming response, in only a few short weeks, shows the
hunger for a different kind of politics in this country and a
belief at the grassroots level that Barack Obama can bring out
the best in America to solve our problems", said Obama for
America Finance chairwoman Penny Pritzker.


The Obama campaign also raised 6.9 million dollars over the
Internet from more than 50,000 donors, the campaign added.


Obama's numbers push the total figure raised by candidates well
past 100 million dollars, in what could be the United States'
first billion-dollar election.


Piling up fundraising dollars before a first-quarter 2007
fundraising deadline has been seen as a leading barometer of a
candidate's strength.


Clinton, seeking to maximize her front-runner's edge, smashed
records by raking in 26 million dollars and added 10 million from
her Senate account.


So far in the polls, Clinton is running first, but with nine
months still to go before the first party primaries for the
November 2008 election, Obama in second place has been steadily
nibbling away at her lead.


Running third for the Democrats is ex-senator John Edwards, the
2004 vice presidential candidate, who announced last month that
he was staying in the race even though his wife Elizabeth is sick
with incurable cancer.


Edwards has piled up 14 million dollars so far this year.


Among Republicans, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
sprung a surprise in the fund-raising stakes, pulling in more
than 20 million dollars and dealing a severe blow to rival
Senator John McCain, who raised 12.5 million dollars.


Romney's success has thrust him squarely into the top tier of
Republican candidates, and raised questions about the prospects
for McCain, who looked for months to be the party's heir apparent
but tied his fate to support for Bush's unpopular policies in
Iraq.


Republican front-runner and former New York mayor Rudolph
Giuliani, leaning on his cool-headed leadership during the
September 11 attacks in 2001, was happy with his 15 million-
dollar take despite a late start fund raising.

