

An economic slowdown in the United States would have only a
modest global impact if contained to the US real estate sector,
an International Monetary Fund report said Thursday.


The IMF report warned, however, that the shock to the global
economy could be more significant if the downturn spreads to
consumer spending and business investment.


The IMF made its comments in a portion of its semi-annual World
Economic Outlook. The full report, with projections for global
growth, is to be released next week.


The report said any slowdown in the US economy "can exert
spillovers" in both advanced and developing countries, especially
to those with strong trade ties to the United States.


It noted that the impact on other economies may depend on how
much of the slump extends beyond the US property markets.


"With the US slowdown to date largely driven by the cooling
domestic housing market, spillovers to growth elsewhere have been
limited," the IMF said.


"If the housing market downturn spread to consumption and
business investment, however, then cross-border spillovers could
be significantly larger, although still manageable, provided
affected countries respond promptly and flexibly."


Up to now, according to the US Federal Reserve, the world's
largest economy remains on track for moderate growth in 2007
despite a severe slump in housing, although some data suggest a
softening of business investment.


The Fed is predicting US gross domestic product growth in a range
of 2.5 to 3.0 percent for 2007.


The IMF said that the global effect of a US downturn would be
"most important for countries with close trade and financial ties
with the United States, particularly Latin America and some
industrial countries."


It said a one percentage point reduction in annual US growth is
associated with a loss of 0.2 percentage points in Latin America,
and 0.4 percentage points or more in Mexico and Canada. But the
impact would be "quite small" for Africa and the Middle East.


"Spillovers are larger during full-blown US recessions than
during mid-cycle slowdowns," the report said.


"In part, this arises because US import growth turns sharply
negative during recessions, and cross-country asset price
correlations increase significantly during financial market
downturns."


Some of the impact may be mitigated by "forward-looking" monetary
policy actions and flexible exchange rates, the IMF said.


"If the US slowdown continues to be largely driven by the cooling
domestic housing market, spillovers to growth elsewhere should
remain limited, particularly with activity in Europe
strengthening," the IMF said.


"Nevertheless, if the housing market downturn spreads to
consumption and business investment, then larger cross-border
spillovers could be expected. In that case, policymakers would
need to respond in a flexible, forward-looking and timely fashion
to help cushion the impact of weaker external demand."


The IMF report said separately that some of the global economic
imbalances may be corrected as the dollar's value declines. The
massive US trade gap -- of 763.6 billion dollars in 2006 -- is
among key concerns for finance officials as surpluses and
currency reserves mount in countries such as China.


"The US trade balance may be more responsive to changes in the
real value of the US dollar than often assumed," the IMF said.


The IMF concluded that "a real US dollar depreciation of less
than 10 percent could bring about a one percent of GDP narrowing
in the US trade deficit."


In another section, the report said the "effective global labor
force" has risen fourfold over the past two decades, reflecting
population growth and the increasing integration of China, India,
and the former Eastern bloc.


"The integration of workers from emerging market and developing
countries into the global labor force has produced important
benefits for advanced economies."


But the report appeared to acknowledge that globalization has
pushed down wages in wealthy countries.


"The labor share in advanced countries has declined by about
seven percentage points, on average, since the early 1980s, with
the drop being largest in European countries and in unskilled
sectors of the economy," it said.


"Looking ahead, it is important to maximize the benefits from
labor globalization and technological advancements, while working
to address the distributional impact of these ongoing changes."

