

The White House attacked House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to
Damascus and refuted her contention that the road to Damascus is
a road to Mideast peace.


Pelosi, the top Democrat in the US House of Representatives and
the most senior US official to visit Syria in years, shrugged off
the criticism by pointing out that Republican legislators were
not chided for visiting Damascus.


Pelosi "earlier today said that the road to Damascus is a road to
peace," White House spokesman Gordon Johndroe said aboard
President George W. Bush's plane en route to California.


"Unfortunately, that road is lined with the victims of Hamas and
Hezbollah, the victims of terrorists who crossed from Syria into
Iraq," he said.


"It's lined with the victims in Lebanon who are trying to fight
for democracy there. It's lined with human rights activists
crying for freedom and democracy in Syria," he said.


Vice President Dick Cheney said Pelosi's visit was tantamount to
a reward for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.


"Bashar Assad has been a -- I don't want to say -- a bad actor,
in many respects," Cheney told ABC News.


"He's been isolated and cut off because of his bad behavior, and
the unfortunate thing about the speaker's visit is it sort of
breaks down that barrier.


"It means without him having done any of those things he should
do in order to be acceptable, if you will, from an international
standpoint, he gets a visit from a high-ranking American anyway.
In other words, his bad behavior is being rewarded, in a sense,"
he told the ABC.


Pelosi said her trip was inspired by the bipartisan Iraq Study
Group, which urged Washington to engage Syria and Iran in
quelling the conflict in neighboring Iraq.


She said she also raised with Assad and other top Syrian
officials her "concern" about alleged support for militant groups
Hamas and Hezbollah and infiltrations into Iraq.


Bush on Tuesday condemned the visit as a unilateral move harming
his policies.


"Photo opportunities and/or meetings with president Assad lead
the Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of
the international community, when, in fact, they're a state
sponsor of terror," he said.


Washington slapped economic sanctions on Syria in 2004 over its
alleged ties to terrorism and withdrew its ambassador from
Damascus after the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese prime
minister Rafiq Hariri.


The Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah set off a devastating
34-day war with Israel last year after capturing two soldiers in
a cross-border raid, while gunmen linked to Hamas were involved
in the capture of another Israeli soldier at an army post on the
Gaza border.


Israel captured the Golan Heights in 1967 and annexed the
strategic plateau in 1981.

