

He may be Russia's fourth ranked player but captain Shamil
Tarpischev is counting on Marat Safin to keep the champions
winning streak on course in their Davis Cup quarter-final clash
against France in Moscow starting on Friday.


Plagued by injuries and poor form since winning his last title at
the 2005 Australian Open, Safin plummeted to as low as 104th in
the world rankings prior to last year's US Open but has since
risen to 27th.


But Tarpischev insists that in terms of grit and determination no
one can match the former world number one.


Russia, who won their second Davis Cup title in 2006 against
Argentina, are overwhelming favourites as they face off against
France for a third year in a row at the quarter-final stage.


At stake is a semi-final berth against either Germany or Belgium
in September.


"Safin will play because he has the most motivation," said
Tarpischev.


"We'll need to stay focused. They (France) have nothing to lose,
while we are defending our title. And this fact puts us under
tough pressure."


The Russian lineup for the indoor clay tie at the Luzhniki Arena
will be bolstered by the return of world number four Nikolay
Davydenko and 17th-ranked Mikhail Youzhny.


Davydenko and Youzhny both missed the holders' victory over Chile
in February in which Safin and 235th-ranked Igor Andreev played
key roles.


Safin's best result this year has been reaching the Las Vegas
semi-finals.


And he admitted that he was looking forward to the camaraderie of
the Davis Cup in which he has a 28-18 winning record.


"It's the only competition where I can still win matches," joked
Safin, who nevertheless warned against complacency.


"If we already think of the semi-final we have 99 percent chance
of losing."


Russia have a 4-2 record against the French - winning their past
three ties including 2002 when they claimed their first Davis Cup
title at the expense of the hosts in Paris.


France captain Guy Forget will be counting on world number 15
Richard Gasquet for the singles with the second tie to be decided
in a lineup which includes Paul-Henri Mathieu, Michael Llodra and
Arnaud Clement.


"On paper Russia are the favourites. We've lost to them twice in
the past two years. Everything is in their favour," admitted
Forget.


"But I'm not going over there beaten. There's always a chance to
seize when you have nothing to lose."


In Ostend, Germany will be counting on in-form Tommy Haas and
Florian Mayer to lead them to victory over hosts Belgium on clay.


Belgium will line out with the Rochus brothers, Olivier and
Christophe, along with Kristof Vliegen and Dick Norman.


Spain will, meanwhile, be without Rafael Nadal for their tie
against the United States at Winston-Salem, North Carolina, as
the world number two recovers from a foot problem.


The Spanish face an uphill task to overcome Andy Roddick and
James Blake in the singles and doubles specialists the Bryan
twins, Bob and Mike.


Tommy Robredo, David Ferrer, Fernando Verdasco and Feliciano
Lopez make up the Spanish squad for the hardcourt tie which will
decide who meets either Sweden or last year's finalists
Argentina, who play on carpet indoors in Gothenburg.


The South Americans enjoyed a 5-0 whitewash against the Swedes in
Buenos Aires in the opening round of last year's competition.


Fixtures


Russia v France at Moscow (indoor clay)


Belgium v Germany at Ostend, Belgium (indoor clay)


USA v Spain at Winston-Salem, North Carolina (indoor hard)


Sweden v Argentina at Gothenburg (indoor Taraflex Tennis carpet)

