

Thirty years ago, they would have taken their place on the
conveyor belt, the raw materials for the all-conquering West
Indies cricket machine.


Now young Caribbean men are more likely to be dreaming of making
vast amounts of money in America's NBA than making Test centuries
at the Kensington Oval here.


Cricket authorities in the region try to play down the
significance of a sporting exodus but the West Indies' almost
certain World Cup elimination has brought the problem back into
sharp focus.


A look at the figures is worrying.


It's estimated that an Australian Test player will take home
around 500,000 dollars a year; a West Indies player can earn
around 8,000 dollars a Test and 3,000 dollars for every one-
dayer.


In Grenada, where six Super Eights matches take place from next
week, many young men are desperate to leave an island still
recovering from the effects of Hurricane Ivan in 2005.


Basketball has provided scholarships for several Grenadian
players - East Central University in Oklahoma recruited Ian
Adams, Orson Thomas, Lyndon Daniels and Gary James.


All are expected to make it to the NBA.


That's a relief for the young men of an island where over 12
percent of the working population is unemployed and where poverty
and drug use are rife.


Washington Wizards centre Etan Thomas, whose roots are Grenadian,
recently donated 40,000 dollars to fund repairs to basketball
courts devastated by Ivan.


He persuaded other NBA players to chip in with another 100,000
dollars.


"I'm concerned that the court gets utilised in the way that it is
supposed to be, for young people to have a place where they can
play and take them off the streets," said Thomas.


In Guyana, meanwhile, one of the poorest nations in the region
and reeling from the collapse in demand for sugar, the situation
is just as worrying.


"Guyana has more Guyanese in the North American diaspora than in
Guyana itself," said an editorial in www.hardbeatnews.com, a
website of Caribbean news aimed at expats in the United States.


"The hegemony of the United States is all-persuasive. Young West
Indians grow up on a diet of the NFL and NBA. They aspire not to
be Garry Sobers but Michael Jordan."


The author claims that it's impossible to find cricket pitches in
Georgetown, which once went hand in hand with the sugar estates,
yet basketball courts are everywhere.


"The riches to be made in the NBA are far in excess of even the
inflated fees paid to those currently masquerading as West Indies
cricket stars," added the editorial.


"The choice for a young athlete is a no-brainer. The US every
time."


Golden State Warriors' Adonal Foyle was born in St Vincent but
has just become a US citizen.


The 6ft 10in player didn't touch a basketball until he was 16
after trying cricket.


"I played cricket, and I was pretty bad at it. And when I played
soccer, they stuck me in as goalkeeper," said Foyle.


"If I hadn't found basketball, I don't know what I would have
done."


The list goes on.


Arnold Henry, who grew up in St Lucia, now plays at the
University of North Florida after becoming converted to
basketball by watching Michael Jordan.


"I watched the 1998 NBA finals and the way MJ played, it inspired
me. I found a court near my home and I played every day. I even
played in the rain."


Even before Jordan, there was a NBA role model in Jamaican-born
Patrick Ewing who made his name with the New York Knicks and went
on to win two Olympic gold medals.


But West Indies great Sir Vivian Richards isn't convinced that
all Caribbean talent will end up in the USA.


"We had basketball in the 1970s and 1980s and even people like
Michael Jordan couldn't convince us we should all change to
basketball," said Richards.


"It's just for us to try and get certain things in place, our
preparation, our development programme. If we can give an avenue
for young individuals to play and make a decent living out of it,
then we could be back again."

