

Hundreds of police with water cannon were deployed Thursday as an
Indonesia court prepared to rule whether the editor of the local
version of Playboy was guilty of publishing indecent material.


About 100 militant Muslims were on hand for the verdict, shouting
"God is great!" and vowing "judgement our way" if Erwin Arnada
was acquitted.


Prosecutors have called for Arnada, 42, to be jailed for two
years in a case seen as pitting press freedom against
conservative Islamic mores in the world's most populous Muslim-
majority nation.


Heru Hendratmoko, the chairman of the Alliance of Independent
Journalists, said he hoped Arnada would be let go in the interest
of press freedom.


"I am fairly optimistic," he said, adding that the editor should
not have been subjected to a criminal trial.


But the hardline Islamic Defenders Front (FPI) warned it would
"declare war" against the adult magazine, which is still being
published in Indonesia, if the court in Jakarta failed to jail
Arnada.


"We will attack the Playboy office and sweep up copies of the
magazine, which will destroy the morals of Indonesian children,"
Irwan Asidi, one of the Front's leaders, told AFP.


Ahead of the verdict he had said about 1,000 like-minded Muslims
would be mobilised to the court for the verdict, but late
Thursday morning only about 100 were present.


About 20 FPI members were inside the courtroom itself as a panel
of judges began reading the verdict.


"Playboy destroyed the mentality of the Indonesian generation. We
have to fight against them. Islam not only protects Muslim
followers but also non-Muslim," FPI member Abdul Khodir said.


"We are going to do judgement our way," if the editor is
acquitted, said Muhammad al Khaththath, the secretary general of
Forum Umat Islam, an umbrella group containing FPI and other
hardline organisations.


Local police chief Donny Sabardi said 665 police officers had
been mobilised, including members of a paramilitary brigade who
arrived with water cannon.


Arnada's lawyer Ina Rachman said she hoped the court would rule
objectively despite the protests.


"I hope the judges will take a decision independently and free
from third-party influences. We all know that the FPI has
threatened all parties, including the judges and myself," she
told AFP.


Prosecutors said Arnada had upset society and damaged Indonesia's
morals. The charge of publishing indecent material carries a jail
term of up to 32 months.


Arnada has argued that Playboy Indonesia does not publish
photographs of naked women or do anything illegal.


He would appeal if found guilty and jailed, his lawyer said,
adding the magazine would not be pulled from the shelves if he
ended up behind bars.


Playboy's debut issue in April last year featured several models
on its cover and inside pages, showing ample cleavage and long
legs -- but nothing more explicit.


Racier men's magazines, newspapers and websites are available in
the country.


Playboy moved its Indonesian headquarters to the predominantly
Hindu resort island of Bali after protests by Muslim hardliners
and attacks on its offices in the capital, Jakarta.


Indonesians practise a very tolerant form of Islam, but religious
leaders have complained that the magazine is a corrupting
influence on society.

