

Asian Tour chief Kyi Hla Han believes the region must create more
golfing heroes to inspire more children to learn and excel in the
sport.


Han predicted exciting times for golf in Asia, with the Tour
expanding greatly and the region's players responding with eye-
catching performances on the international front.


He is counting on the Asian challenge to sparkle at this week's
Masters Tournament, the year's first Major, to reinforce the
growing standard of play.


"It's a growing period of time for Asia. Jeev Milkha Singh and
Yang Yong-eun earned invitations to the Masters on merit by being
inside the world's top-50 and I feel we need more players like
them to get into Majors," said Han, the Tour's Executive
Chairman.


"We now have more tournaments on the Asian Tour and our players
are gaining more experience.


"Through our World Ranking status, there's every opportunity for
our players to play their way into the Majors. That gives added
incentive for our guys to perform."


Han, who hails from Myanmar and is based at the Asian Tour's
headquarters in Singapore, attended his first International
Federation of PGA Tour meeting as the Asian Tour's Executive
Chairman in Sawgrass earlier this week before arriving at Augusta
National.


He hailed Singh and Yang for playing their way into the Masters,
joining former Asian Tour stalwart K.J. Choi in the elite field
this week.


"The way Jeev and Yang qualified for the Masters should provide
an inspiration to a lot of guys. It's a positive step. Jeev, in
particular, has played well over the past year and has reaped the
fruits of his labour," said Han.


"I think what Jeev has done will serve as a great inspiration. We
need to create more heroes where young players in Asia can look
up to them."


Han knows that hard work and dedication are the key to success
and he needs to only look at Fijian Vijay Singh as an example.


During the 1980s, Han and Singh, a former Masters champion, were
roommates on Tour for three years before the big Fijian made it
big in the United States.


"Vijay started his career in Asia. He played on the Malaysian
Tour, the old Asian circuit before moving on to Africa, Europe
and finally the PGA Tour and winning Majors," said Han.


"It's the right path to follow. The only way Vijay got to where
he is today was through pure hard work. All the young Asian
players should follow in that footstep, very much like how Jeev
has also worked so hard after his injuries."

