

Solomon Islands villager Hendrik surveys the devastation that
claimed his granddaughter's life and wiped out his home.


He vows never to return to a shoreline that he fears could again
unleash a deadly combination of earthquake and tsunami at any
time, following the double event Monday that destroyed the life
he had always known.


Hendrik is an elder at the tiny fishing village of Titiana on
Gizo Island, a home to 600 people that has been reduced to a
wasteland of twisted corrugated iron and rubble after the seismic
battering struck the Solomons early Monday.


Some houses were tossed 50 metres (yards) by the raging torrent,
ending up as splintered matchwood after the quake and tsunami hit
about 50 kilometres (30 miles) from this village near the town of
Gizo.


Still others were picked up then dumped almost untouched on the
other side of the village, only the crazy angle in which they
came to rest betraying something amiss.


The village's beach, once a straight line of white sand, is now
crescent shaped after the force of the tsunami scooped away
thousands of tonnes of sand in an instant.


Huge puddles of water in what was once the main street contain
saltwater fish dead and dying under the baking sun after being
stranded some 30 metres (100 foot) from the ocean when the
tsunami receded.


The wave's impact left fishing boats resting in trees and
scattered villagers' belongings far and wide.


They have set up camp on higher ground as tremors continue to
rock the island and Hendrik insists the villages have no desire
to return to the shore, preferring to create a new settlement in
the hills.


"This place, we should clear it, so the children have nothing in
their way if they need to run to the hills again," he said.


"We don't have the strength to rebuild, we just sit around and
ask each other 'what happened to you? what happened to you?'," he
added with a shrug.


Hendrik's granddaughter was swept away in the deadly ocean surge
and he cannot bring himself to say her name as he picks among the
wreckage of his former home looking of anything salvageable.


"She was just over one year old, my first granddaughter, just
washed away," he told AFP.


"There's plenty more people still missing under the sea, plenty
more bodies to find."


The official death toll in the village is three but Hendrik says
another eight are missing and searchers are scouring the debris
for bodies.


A total of at least 30 have so far been reported killed
throughout the western Solomons.


Fellow villager Komoe Tama is equally adamant that Titiana will
not be rebuilt on its current site, saying the roadside camp
where the population is now living should become permanent.


"No one will go back, we are all too scared. We don't understand
why this happened to us,"  he told AFP.


"We'll still fish down there and work there but the children
can't sleep, can't go to school there after this thing."


Uniting Church bishop Erona Tarakabu has close family ties to
Titiana and was visiting the village just days before the
tsunami.


As a young boy passes with a bag of clothes gathered from his
former house, Tarakabu points out the location of former
landmarks in a village where the landscape has been transformed
by the brutal natural disaster.


"This was where we used to sit in the shade and tell stories," he
said, pointing to an teetering tree swamped by seawater.


"That's all in the past now."

