

East Timor's history of violence, poverty and weak institutions
has derailed attempts to build the fledgling state and fuelled
crisis, observers say.


The country, which holds its first post-independence presidential
election on Monday, was created virtually from scratch with huge
international assistance.


It emerged after the violent departure in 1999 of Indonesian
forces, which invaded and occupied the former Portuguese colony
for 24 years.


But the struggle to rebuild the mountainous, sun-dappled land
beside the sea has been thrown off course since renewed violence
and political tension erupted last year.


"It seems things are moving in a wrong direction," said Hideaki
Asahi, the chief of the Japanese electoral monitoring mission.


He admits the United Nations withdrew too soon after helping East
Timor lay the foundation for nationhood in 2002.


"It's quite impossible to see a country grow up maturely in a
short period," Asahi said.


The list of East Timor's troubles is lengthy, said Jose Luis
Gutteres, the minister of foreign affairs.


"First there is instability. Secondly there is a high poverty
rate. Thirdly there is no investment in the rural areas. Fourthly
there is a high employment rate. Who wants to keep living with a
situation like that?"


Indonesia's 1975 invasion led directly to the deaths of more than
100,000 East Timorese, or 10 percent of the population, an
official investigative commission found.


At least 1,400 deaths came in violence surrounding the 1999
United Nations referendum, in which East Timorese voted
overwhelmingly for self-determination.


The vote unleashed an Indonesian military campaign of murder,
arson, looting and forced deportation of the population before
the occupiers pulled out, leaving much of the territory's
infrastructure destroyed.


Thousands of UN soldiers, police and administrative personnel
arrived to restore security and lay the groundwork for the new
country's infrastructure: a police force, a democratically-
elected government, a public service, an armed forces.


But after independence, the UN presence was gradually reduced to
a skeleton.


Then came the violence last May, which tore apart or severely
strained some of those key institutions.


The unrest followed the sacking by then-prime minister Mari
Alkatiri of 600 army deserters.


Firefights subsequently broke out between factions of the
military, and between the army and police, and degenerated into
gang violence in Dili, the capital.


At least 37 people were killed, more than 150,000 fled their
homes, and an Australian-led international security force landed
to help restore calm.


"There is a widespread culture of resistance, not of
reconstruction," said Andrea Bartoli, of the Centre for
International Conflict Resolution at New York's Columbia
University.


"There is a strong and clear need to constructively channel
energies toward shared positive purposes and so far this has been
the main failure."


Jose Luis de Oliveira, of the human rights group Yayasan HAK,
said the situation in East Timor now resembles 1975 or 1999.


"The crisis which erupted last year has not been solved well," he
said. "People do not learn from history."


Since last year's violence the UN has strengthened its presence
in East Timor with close to 1,000 UN police officers.


But sporadic unrest has continued and some 37,000 people are
still displaced in Dili.


With the return of the UN, East Timor's economy has perked up.


"The economy expanded this year but it's based on the return of
the UN. It's not real," said Eric Mancini, a businessman who
often travels to East Timor.


"This will collapse like a souffle."


The World Bank says East Timor, with a population of almost one
million, remains one of the world's poorest nations.


Urban unemployment reaches 43 percent, more than 20 percent of
the population live on less than a dollar a day and the country's
fertility rate is the highest in the world, the bank said.


"I regret that our government has done little to help the poor
over the last five years," said Jose Ramos-Horta, the prime
minister and a strong contender to win the election.


He vowed to "wage this war" against poverty, and also said last
year's crisis has placed the justice system under pressure.


New York-based Human Rights Watch researcher Charmain Mohamed
said long-term stability for East Timor depends on transparent
and credible prosecutions of perpetrators of the violence.


"Institutional weaknesses in the police, military and judiciary
have fuelled the current crisis in Timor-Leste," she said, using
the country's formal name.


She also called on presidential candidates to address "the
ongoing impunity for gross human rights violations perpetrated
during the Indonesian occupation."


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor failed to jail any of
them.

