

The European Union, United States and Russia on Wednesday agreed
on ways in which they can cooperate more closely to combat
terrorism, German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said.


"We have agreed on a range of concrete measures," Schaeuble said
after meeting with his Russian and US counterparts in Berlin.


Their plans include combating "the recruitment of younger
generations" by terrorist groups, fighting opium production in
Afghanistan and making Interpol more efficient in tracking people
who use false identities.


An advisor to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Victor Ivanov,
said a Russian proposal was adopted to set up a working committee
to fine-tune cooperation with the EU and the United States.


"We have agreed to produce a roadmap," he told reporters.


US Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said his
country's concerns had also become those of Russia and the EU in
the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.


"We are bound by the common agenda of protecting our people from
terrorism and we plan on strengthening the bonds forged by
difficult times."


The "worst nightmare" the countries could imagine was a nuclear
attack by terrorists, said Chertoff.


They had discussed ways of ensuring that radicals did not obtain
the material to make so-called dirty bombs.


"We need to find a global solution to the illegal trade in
nuclear materials. We need to improve our networks because the
terrorists are improving theirs," he said.


The officials said they agreed that the opium trade in
Afghanistan was financing international terrorism and that more
needed to be done to root it out.


"We need to help farmers to find an alternative way of producing
crops and we need to do more to fight drug smuggling," Schaeuble
said.


Afghanistan is expected to produce a record crop of opium poppies
in 2007.


EU Justice Commissioner Franco Frattini said opium production was
increasing rapidly in the south, where the Taliban is waging its
strongest insurgency since it was ousted in 2001.


"We therefore have to continue with the stabilisation of the
country and with efforts to establish the rule of law on the
ground and reform the justice system," he said.


The meeting was followed by the start of a two-day meeting of
interior and justice ministers from the United States, Germany
and Portugal -- the current and future EU presidents -- also
attended by Frattini.

