

They jeered in the east, they cheered in the west: the Ukrainian
president's order to dissolve parliament this week has brought
regional divisions in the country to boiling point.


Nowhere was the split more visible than among the angry crowd in
Donetsk, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych's heartland in eastern
Ukraine, where some 5,000 people rallied against President Viktor
Yushchenko on Wednesday.


"No to the coup!" and "The people are against you, president!"
shouted the protesters, as an emergency session of the local
parliament called on the president to revoke his order.


The bitter power struggle in Ukraine, which pits pro-Western
Yushchenko against Yanukovych and his pro-Russian governing
coalition, reflects deep differences between east and west in
this ex-Soviet republic.


The east has traditionally been under Moscow's influence -- a
historical legacy made up of family, economic and language ties
that has continued in post-Soviet times.


In western regions, Poland once held sway and many people there
are now lured by the goals of integration with the European Union
and NATO espoused by Yushchenko and the Orange Revolution that
brought him to power in 2004.


The mass protests of the revolution heightened the split:
Yushchenko's victory against arch rival Yanukovych, widely seen
as Moscow's man in the race, was hailed above all in western
Ukraine.


In the current stand-off, the initiative has come mainly from the
east, with several thousand people bussed in from provinces like
Donetsk and Kharkiv to take part in anti-Yushchenko rallies in
the Ukrainian capital Kiev.


"We don't like the Western model, we grew up in the Slavic
world," said Yury, a 52-year-old protester from the eastern
region of Kharkiv wearing a black bomber jacket at a protest in
Kiev.


"This orange revolution is a creeping revolution that is imposing
the Western way of life on us... I'm going to ask for political
asylum in Russia," said Yury, who declined to give his surname.


The reaction in western Ukraine to Yushchenko's dramatic
televised address on Monday announcing the dissolution of
parliament and early elections for May 27 was markedly different.


Dozens of inhabitants of the western city of Lviv came out of
their homes and set off fireworks. Local officials backed the
president and are preparing for the elections.


"I respect exclusively the orders and decrees of the president of
Ukraine," Lviv regional governor Petro Oliniik told journalists
on Wednesday, as regional mayors also voted to back Yushchenko at
an emergency meeting.


Even the lead singer of popular rock band Okean Elzy, which shot
to fame as  a feature of the Orange Revolution, gave a press
conference in Lviv to support the president.


"We should unite around the president to defend our
constitutional rights," Svyatoslav Vakarchuk said. "Ukraine needs
change. That's why President Yushchenko signed the order."


The anti-Yushchenko camp has accused the president of dividing
the country through his pursuit of NATO membership, unpopular
among many Ukrainians, and his defence of Ukrainian nationalism.


At the protest in Kiev, a massive sign reading "The Unity of
Ukraine is the Future of Ukraine" hung above a podium from which
speakers accused Yushchenko of undermining stability in Ukraine.


Yanukovych, speaking with foreign ambassadors in Kiev on
Wednesday, reinforced the point, saying: "The division of the
country, which would happen as a result of the illegal actions of
the president, must not be allowed."

