

The global banking and finance industry expects robust economic
growth in 2007 but also sees "anxiety amidst prosperity" due to
financial market turmoil and an uncertain US outlook, a report
showed Wednesday.


The Institute of International Finance (IIF), a grouping of major
global banks and finance firms, said some of the optimism on the
economic outlook is tempered by growing risks.


"Global growth continues to be strong and is likely to be close
to five percent this year," the IIF said in a report delivered to
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank ahead of
their semiannual meetings.


The report said the developing world is sharing in the expansion
amid strong investment in these countries.


"Net private capital flows to emerging markets are running at a
record annual rate of around 500 billion dollars," it added.


But IIF managing director Charles Dallara said his group's
research suggests "growing vulnerabilities to the outlook for
global growth."


"Geopolitical developments and persistent global imbalances cloud
the future, with the latter raising the prospects of
protectionism and disorderly adjustment," he said.


"In financial markets, events earlier this year involving a spike
in volatility and downward adjustments in global asset prices
reflected in part concerns about the outlook for the US economy,
sparked by deterioration in the subprime mortgage sector. These
events may also have signaled prospects of a return of risk
aversion, particularly as the current high levels of
international liquidity recede."


Dallara cited "an unusual sense of unease and anxiety amidst
prosperity."


In his letter, he called for the international organizations to
"build on current activities and engage more deeply with one
another on these issues and for the IMF to reassert the
leadership in our collective efforts to underpin global financial
stability."


He said finance ministers, central bank governors and the IMF
should "engage in an extensive dialogue with private finance to
secure the stability of the global financial system."


Such meetings may be useful since the global financial system has
become more complex due to the rise of market derivatives and
hedge funds that move across borders.


He suggested the banking industry leaders meet with IMF and other
global leaders starting at the October annual meeting of the
international organization.


"These meetings at senior levels could identify common interests
in areas of financial stability and market efficiency and enhance
mutual understanding of critical developments in financial
markets," the IIF said.

