

World oil prices were mixed Wednesday as news that major crude
producer Iran had decided to free 15 British sailors was partly
offset by disappointing inventory data from the United States.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dropped 26 cents to close at 64.38 dollars per
barrel after dipping as low as 63.56 dollars after the news from
Iran.


In London trading, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery rose 59 cents to settle at 68.40 dollars per barrel. The
contract had fallen to 66.93 dollars on news of the sailors'
release.


Iran announced on Wednesday that it was releasing 15 British navy
personnel captured by the Islamic Republic almost a fortnight
ago.


Concerns about the standoff caused by their detention had
propelled oil prices to seven-month highs above 69 dollars a
barrel in London on Monday.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil producer and traders are
concerned it might disrupt its exports.


"The fall in prices was much more aggressive after the news that
Iran would release the hostages," said Bart Melek at BMO Capital
Markets.


"Then the inventory data came out and they were fairly bullish
because of a big drop in gasoline that overpowered the big rise
in crude."


The weekly report by the US Department of Energy showed gasoline
(petrol) reserves fell by five million barrels to 205.2 million
last week, against a forecast drawdown of 300,000 barrels.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched ahead of the US
driving season, which sees Americans take to the roads for their
summer vacations.


The drop prompted a rise in overall prices even though US crude
inventories jumped by 4.3 million barrels to 332.7 million in the
week to March 30.


"At this time of the year, refiners are going to switch refining
of distillates to refining of gasoline and they're going to need
to increase their refining capacity," he said.


"We'll have to use more crude because inventories were lower than
expected."


Prices began retreating on Tuesday as hopes mounted for a
resolution of the two- week-old crisis with Iran. A formal
announcement came as markets opened in New York.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told reporters: "While
insisting on our rights, these 15 sailors have been pardoned and
we offer their freedom to the British people."


Iran had stalled over the sailors' release after Britain had
insisted that the 15 were seized in Iraqi waters on March 23.
Tehran maintains that they were in Iranian waters when captured.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over Iran's disputed nuclear program.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish warned that "the nuclear
issue has not gone away."


Traders said oil price rises were also pared Wednesday by the
release of four foreign oil workers abducted last week in
Nigeria, Africa's biggest crude producer, dealers said.


British High Commission and industry sources said Wednesday that
a Briton, a Dutch national and two Lebanese oil workers held
hostage in volatile oil-rich southern Nigeria since last Saturday
had been freed.


Nigeria has seen its oil production fall since last year owing to
disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.

