

China's head swimming coach says he will accept the axe with no
complaints following the nation's world championships debacle,
state media reported Thursday.


"If the officials have no trust in me and sack me, I will not
have any complaints," the China Daily quoted Zhang Yadong as
saying.


China's once-powerful swimming team sank to their worst
performance in 15 years at the just concluded world championships
in Australia, winning just one silver and one bronze medal.


With just 15 months to go before Beijing hosts the 2008 Olympic
Games, Zhang said time was running out for the under-performing
squad.


"People expected the team to show improvement and win medals. But
our performance was not up to scratch," he said.


"As a result, China's gold medal hopes at next year's Olympics
look remote."


Many Chinese swimmers are publicly blaming backward coaching
methods for their failure, and Zhang agreed that China was now
playing catch-up with leading countries such as the United States
and Australia.


"Swimming has become an underdeveloped sport in China. We are
lagging behind compared with four years ago," he said.


"It might have something to do with the new training methods."


Zhang Lin, who finished sixth in the men's 200m freestyle, echoed
many swimmers when he said he wanted to quit China and train
abroad.


"Our training methods have problems. I want to go abroad and get
new training," he said.


The swimmer said that he wanted to emulate South Korea's champion
Park Tae-Hwan, who took the bronze medal in the 200m freestyle.


"Before Park went abroad to train with an Australian coach, we
were almost neck and neck in the 200m. But now I am lagging
behind. He has improved mentally and physically," said Zhang.


China's Wu Peng was the best of a poor bunch in Melbourne,
swimming a respectable men's 200m butterly to claim a silver. But
he had the misfortune of sharing the pool with the seemingly
invincible US swimmer Michael Phelps, who shattered the world
record in the race.


China also took a bronze in the women's 4x100m medley relay.


But even Wu said he wanted to go to the United States and
confirmed that he would be heading there next month to train with
Phelps.


"I really want to learn from him," he said.

