

She fought her first cow at 12, killed her first bull at 16 and
now this shy, young Frenchwomen is set on facing another
adversary -- the very macho, closed, ritualized world of
bullfighting.


This Easter weekend, 19-year-old Marie Barcelo will walk into a
top-class arena to fight a bull, on foot, in her first major
holiday "corrida."


"In the arena you come alive," said Barcelo, who readily admits
to a moment of panic before the bull --  which can weigh 480 to
600 kilos (1,060 to 1,320 pounds) -- enters the ring. But when it
does, all fear evaporates.


"It's a pure moment, you shed all pretense and face the truth,"
she said ahead of what will be a closely watched performance in
the Roman amphitheatre in Arles, the southern town that hosts
some of France's most spectacular bullfights.


"To become a matador, you must overcome enormous difficulties,"
bullfighting specialist and chaplain for the amphitheatre in
nearby Nimes, Jacques Teissier, told AFP.


"For a woman, entering this still very male chauvinist world is
even more difficult."


But Barcelo, whose fine features are framed by shoulder-length,
chestnut- coloured hair, is not fazed.


"This is a man's world but there are women who have proven that
we are capable of bullfighting, like Cristina Sanchez," she told
AFP.


Sanchez, the most famous female matador in bullfighting capital
Spain, enjoyed a high-profile career in the 1990s before dropping
out to retire, mainly over her frustration at some of her male
colleagues' refusal to fight alongside a woman.


In France, no woman has yet passed, on foot like Sanchez, the
critical "alternative" - a rite of passage that separates
amateurs from professionals. France's best-know female matador,
Marie Sara, made it past the test in 1991, but on horseback.


"So far I haven't had any trouble at my level. Afterwards, if I
take the 'alternative,' it will be more difficult, but I'm ready
to face all that," Barcelo said.


In the classic bullfight, six beasts are successively battled
then put to death by the matadors, with the help of mounted
lancers or "picadors" and pages or "peones."


The duel as a show of male force and virility is embodied in the
Spanish phrase to describe the moment a matador dons his costly
"suit of lights": "apretarse los machos," which literally means
"squeeze the testicles."


But Barcelo's trainer Paquito Leal, himself a former bullfighter,
insists "the corrida has begun to evolve," noting that more and
more women were entering the sport in Spain.


His protege's passion was sparked at a young age on the farm of
her bullfight- loving parents, who make goat's cheese and breed
bulls for the  Provencal-style bull runs known as the "courses
camarguaises," in the Herault department west of Arles.


"One day, I was having fun fighting the cows during a branding
when Marie told me, 'I want to try.' She was 12 years old,"
recalled her father Michel.


"She wasn't afraid," he said, showing a picture he still carries
in his wallet capturing that moment.


By the end of 2003, Barcelo was enrolled in the bullfighting
school in Nimes, where she killed her first bull. It was
"impressive," she said.


Corrida opponents claim the practice is barbaric and amounts to
animal torture. They doubt matadors' claims that they "love" the
bulls they fight. But Barcelo, who is transformed when she enters
the ring, eyes blazing and body radiating confidence as she
struts through the passes, insists it is true.


"You love the bull so much that you want to help them show off
their courage and their grandeur in battle. It is painful for us
to send them off anonymously, without glory, to die at the
slaughter house," she said.


Unlike many other bullfighters, Barcelo holds a high school
diploma but dropped out of university to concentrate on
bullfighting. Today, she is enrolled in the corrida school in
Arles, has fought several bullfights in Spain, limits her social
life and conducts rigorous daily training.


"She is raising the bar for the boys," her trainer said.


She takes on odd jobs to survive financially, mindful that only
the world's top 50 bullfighters actually make a living at their
trade. And she has the wholehearted support of her parents who,
with relatives, offered Barcelo her first "suit of lights" on her
18th birthday.


They admit they fear for her every time she enters the ring but
accept that "this is her passion."


Barcelo knows she must "do the best possible" at this weekend's
"novillada de la feria," a holiday bullfight using animals under
four years old, to land future gigs.


Her mantra when she steps into the ring, she said, will be
comments from two of today's most famous matadors, Morante de la
Puebla and Sebastian Castella, applauding her bravery during a
recent training session in Spain.

