

The parents of "American Taliban" John Walker Lindh called on US
President George W. Bush to free their son Tuesday, contrasting
his treatment with Australian Guantanamo Bay detainee David
Hicks.


Lawyers for Lindh's family told a press conference they would
file a petition with President George W. Bush and the Justice
Department, calling for the 26 -year-old's 20-year sentence to be
commuted.


They said Lindh's sentence was unduly harsh compared to the nine-
month term Hicks had received at a US military hearing last week
which saw him agree to plead guilty to a terrorism charge.


"Given the result in the Hicks case we are filing with the
president and the Department of Justice a request for commutation
of John Walker Lindh's sentence," lawyer Jim Brosnahan told
reporters.


"It is very simple. It is a question of proportionality, it is a
question of fairness."


Lindh was detained in Afghanistan in December 2001 while fighting
for the Taliban against the Northern Alliance forces in the wake
of the US-led invasion of the country.


In 2002 he pleaded not guilty to a 10-count indictment which
included charges of providing support to foreign terrorist
organizations as well as contributing services to the Taliban and
Al-Qaeda.


In a later plea deal, however, all terrorist-related charges were
dropped in exchange for Lindh pleading guilty to two counts of
serving in the Taliban army and carrying weapons.


He was jailed for 20 years without parole in October 2002 and is
currently being held at the Supermax maximum-security federal
prison in Colorado.


Lindh's mother Marilyn Walker said her son had never fought
against US forces and never endorsed terrorism.


"We hope that President Bush will respond today with sympathy and
compassion ... we ask President Bush to please commute John's
prison sentence," she said.


"John has been in prison for more than five years and it is time
for him to come home," she added.


Lindh's father, Frank Lindh, said his son had been wrongly
accused of fighting against America and being involved in
terrorism.


"We really do hope the president will commute John's sentence and
allow him to come home," he said.


Brosnahan said Lindh had been a victim of the climate of fear
that gripped the United States in the months following the
September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.


"The time following 9/11 was a time of tremendous turmoil, of
concern and worry," he said. "And there was a feeling that
anybody connected to the Taliban should be treated very harshly.
And John was treated very harshly.

