

ASEAN finance ministers meet here Thursday, aiming to strengthen
measures to head off any repeat of the 1997-98 financial meltdown
that traumatised the region for years afterwards.


Thailand, the epicenter of the turmoil, hosts the one-day meeting
of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),
home to some of the world's most dynamic economies and a market
of 500 million people.


Apart from discussing how to help a member out of economic
problems, ASEAN also aims to address concerns affecting the
region's export-driven economy such as slowing global demand and
rising oil prices, a senior Thai official said.


"In this region, we are still doing better than others but we
have to be very cautious about the factors affecting our economy,
such as a slowdown in the world's growth and the possibility of
rising oil prices," Suparut Kawatkul, permanent secretary of the
Thai finance ministry, told AFP.


Suparut said ASEAN would discuss recent gains in regional
currencies against the dollar and ways to boost economic
integration in the group ranging from wealthy Singapore to
impoverished Cambodia and Myanmar.


Over the past year, major ASEAN currencies such as the Thai baht,
Indonesian rupiah, Singaporean dollar and Philippine peso have
all sharply appreciated against the dollar amid concern over the
slowing US economy.


"I believe the situations of ASEAN member countries are similar.
We are all affected ... We will discuss how best to handle the
situation," Suparut said.


Thailand has taken some of the most draconian steps to halt the
rise in its currency, imposing capital controls in December which
required 30 percent of all incoming investment to be withheld for
up to one year.


Foreign investors saw the rules as a steep tax on equity
investment and quickly dumped shares, triggering a massive sell-
off that month.


The debacle forced Thailand to reverse some of the controls but
senior officials, including Finance Minister Chalongphob
Sussangkarn, have repeatedly insisted that some measures are
necessary to curb the baht's rise.


The fear is that stronger currencies will make Thai exports, a
key driver for the economy, more expensive and other ASEAN
members are similarly dependent on overseas markets.


In 1997, the Bank of Thailand spent billions of dollars in
foreign reserves to defend the baht, which came under heavy
attack from international speculators when its current account
tumbled into the red.


Unable to cope with the onslaught, the central bank allowed the
currency to float, setting off a chain reaction of collapsing
Asian currencies and soaring interest rates throughout the
region.


In a bid to prevent a repeat of 1997, ASEAN, Japan, China and
South Korea agreed in 2000 to set up a bilateral currency swap
scheme known as the Chiang Mai Initiative.


Under this umbrella accord, an Asian country in trouble can
borrow foreign currency -- usually US dollars -- from another
country to bolster its international reserves until the crisis
passes.


Japan has bilateral currency swap measure worth one billion to
three billion dollars each with several ASEAN members, with South
Korea also supporting a similar scheme.


Suparut from the Thai finance minister ministry said ASEAN
finance ministers hoped to expand the scheme to a multi-lateral
system to make the region better prepared for a future economic
crisis.


"We have decided to move to the second stage. Under our plan, all
ASEAN members will put forward their own reserves for the
multilateral scheme. We believe it's a step forward for ASEAN,"
he said.

