

Paul Scholes was sent off in the first half as Manchester United
lost 2-1 to Roma in a highly-charged Champions League quarter-
final, first leg here on Wednesday.


United were reduced to 10 men in the 34th minute when Scholes
picked up a second yellow card, the first one having already
ruled him out of the second leg at Old Trafford.


Roma exploited their numerical advantage a minute before the
break when Rodrigo Taddei's deflected shot beat Edwin van der
Sar.


The goal sparked ugly scenes as United fans - reacting to
spiteful provocation from the home supporters - were baton-
charged by Italian police.


United coach Sir Alex Ferguson had said an away goal would be
vital if his side were to reach the semis.


And he got his wish on the hour as Wayne Rooney netted his first
Champions League goal for two-and-a-half years with a cool finish
after a swift United counter-attack.


But Roma refused to let their heads drop and substitute Mirko
Vucinic restored their lead in the 66th minute, hammering home
the loose ball after van der Sar had only half cleared Mancini's
venomous strike with his fists.


Roma's joy at defeating the English Premiership leaders was
tempered slightly by a booking for midfielder Simone Perrotta,
who like Scholes will miss next week's return match.


On Tuesday South Korean midfielder Park Ji-Sung became the latest
United player to join an ever-growing injury list after suffering
a twisted knee in league action at the weekend.


Ryan Giggs, who has been playing as a second striker this season,
dropped back on the left wing to replace Park and Ole Gunnar
Solskjaer, scorer of United's winning goal in the 1999 Champions
League final, partnered Rooney in attack.


Roma were deprived of their Chilean playmaker David Pizarro due
to a one-match suspension, meaning a place in midfield for
Swedish international Christian Wilhelmsson.


The home side made an aggressive start with Taddei screwing a
shot wide and Christian Chivu curling a free-kick the wrong side
of the post.


United were slow to get into their stride, but they gave their
hosts a warning of their attacking threat when Cristiano Ronaldo
left Daniele De Rossi for dead only to see his low cross towards
Rooney intercepted.


Francesco Totti drove a free-kick straight into the arms of van
Der Sar before Scholes picked up his first yellow card for
clattering into Wilhelmsson.


After Totti had tested van der Sar with an angled shot, Scholes
went for an early bath for bringing Totti's robust run to an end
with another crude challenge.


Perrotta was booked for diving to even the score in suspensions
for the return leg before Roma went ahead.


Mancini cut the ball back intelligently after a quickly-taken
corner and Taddei's shot hit Wes Brown before finding the net.


Ronaldo had a great chance to level the score two minutes after
the restart, but his lob lacked the height to get above Roma's
Brazilian keeper Doni.


Totti blazed over from a good position before United caught Roma
out with a lightning break in the 60th minute.


Solskjaer found himself in acres of space down the right, and his
pin-point cross found Rooney with time and space.


The England striker took the ball down cleverly and placed a low
shot past Doni.


Roma reacted positively and Vucinic equalised after van der Sar
had failed to deal with Mancini's blistering drive.


Totti might have given Roma a two-goal cushion but his 20-yard
screamer whistled wide.

