

The dollar slipped against the euro but held steady versus the
yen in Asian trade Thursday as the market waited for key US jobs
data after disappointing service sector figures in the world's
largest economy, dealers said.


The dollar was little changed at 118.68 yen in Tokyo morning
trade from 118.70 in New York late Wednesday.


The euro edged up to 1.3378 dollars from 1.3367 and to 158.67 yen
from 158.63.


The British pound was nearly flat at 1.9757 dollars after jumping
overnight in New York after Iran's surprise announcement it would
free 15 British sailors and marines after a nearly two-week
crisis.


Dealers said movement was limited on the market as many Western
investors were already absent ahead of the Easter holiday break.


"Trading is range-bound as players wait for the US payrolls
data," said Saburo Matsumoto, chief forex strategist for Sumitomo
Trust Bank.


"Since some US and European participants will be absent on Friday
due to Easter, if the (jobs report) is weaker-than-expected there
will be large movement but it will only be temporary," Matsumoto
said.


"There is no doubt that the US economy has reached the floor and
US employment has been slowly falling these past three months,"
he added.


The dollar was hit by soft economic data overnight, offsetting a
boost from news that Iran would free the British captives.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
in March, while the market had expected it to rise. The data
raised concerns that the US service sector could face trouble
along with manufacturing.


The market here is also watching a visit by Chinese Premier Wen
Jiabao next week to Japan in an effort to improve warming
relations between Asia's two largest economies.


It will be the first visit by a Chinese leader to Tokyo in seven
years.


"If the talks between the two leaders go well and relations
improve, then this is beneficial for the stability in Asia," said
Matsumoto.


"If so, then I think this would be positive for the yen," he
added.

