

Most coaches automatically say that they play for a win whatever
the circumstances but Tottenham Hotspur's coach Martin Jol
enhanced his reputation as an honest man on Wednesday.


"A 0-0 draw or better still a 1-1 draw would not be a bad result
for us. The tie can then be decided in London," said Jol at a
press conference ahead of Thursday's UEFA Cup quarter-final first
leg match against holders Sevilla.


"We have to play well, we have to play better than ever and still
have a good game but Spurs are a good team, we know how to attack
and we've got options," added the Dutchman, downplaying the
visitors' chances despite Sevilla's recent fluttering form.


Jol desperately tried to give Spurs the mantle of underdog in the
top matchup of the last eight in Europe's number two club
competition despite the optimism of the London club's 4,000
travelling fans.


"I remember the two times that they have beaten Barcelona in the
last year. I saw them against Barcelona and they were the better
team. They also played for the (European) SuperCup against
Barcelona and beat them 3-0," added Jol.


"They won the UEFA Cup, they are second in La Liga so what can I
say? They are even better than last year when they won the UEFA
Cup. I still feel they are probably the favourites again this
year."


The one man Jol is worried about in particualr is Sevilla
sharpshooter Fredi Kanoute, who spent two seasons at Spurs before
moving to Spain in September 2005.


This season's top scorer in the Spanish first division is widely
perceived to have not lived up to his potential at Spurs despite
scoring 14 goals in 42 league games.


"He's has always been a very good player but I think the
difference between him here and when he was at Spurs is that the
style of football played in Spain suits him better," reflected
Jol.


Kanoute is currently battling with a persistant groin problem
which has plagued him since the start of the 2007 but Jol has
injury problems of his own.


He will be without midfielder Tom Huddlestone, who picked up a
knee injury in the 1-0 win over Reading on Sunday.


Among the other injured players, England international defender
and Spurs captain Ledley King has not recovered in time from the
stress fracture to his left foot and remains on the sidelines.


Spurs have not won a major trophy since the 1999 League Cup and
the UEFA Cup represents their last realistic chance of ending
that barren streak this season.

