

Fifteen British sailors freed by Iran were flying home to London
on Thursday, in a dramatic end to a two-week ordeal in captivity
that had triggered a tense international standoff.


The sailors and marines left Tehran on a British Airways flight
14 days after they were seized by Iranian forces in the northern
Gulf accused of violating Iranian territorial waters.


Their departure wraps up a rapid succession of events that began
when President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday abruptly deflated
the escalating diplomatic crisis by pardoning them as a "gift" to
the British people.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said one
of the commanders, Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state
television.


Friends and relatives of the captured men and one woman spent
much of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement by Ahmadinejad, later seen on state
television chatting with the former prisoners.


"Although Iran has the right to prosecute them by following the
model of the prophet the 15 people were pardoned and their
freedom given as a gift to the British people," Ahmadinejad said
at a Tehran press conference.


His announcement was welcomed by Britain and governments across
the world as well as jubilant relatives of the captives, some of
whom had been paraded on state television "confessing" to
trespassing in Iranian waters.


The eight sailors and seven marines were seized at gunpoint while
patrolling the northern Gulf on March 23 and Iran had long
insisted the key to ending the crisis was a British admission
they had violated its territorial waters.


The standoff had further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's controversial nuclear programme, and had
sent jitters through world oil and financial markets.


British ambassador Geoffrey Adams and other British diplomats
were at the airport to see off the 15, whose flight is due to
touch down in London around midday (1100 GMT).


Prime Minister Tony Blair on Wednesday hailed their release and
thanked "our friends and allies in the region who played their
part" amid reports Syria and Qatar helped bring about a peaceful
resolution.


He said Britain, which took the issue to the UN Security Council
last week, had taken a "firm but calm" approach, "not negotiating
but not confronting either".


In London, the press said their liberation was a victory for old-
fashioned diplomacy, but also questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war," said The
Independent.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters in line with a UN mandate,
but Iran says the sailors' Global Positioning System (GPS)
devices show they intruded on Iranian waters.


US President George W. Bush also welcomed the release of the
Britons but Washington was at pains to deny any link to reports
that five Iranians captured by US forces in Iraq in January would
be granted their first consular access.


The crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations with the
West, with the United States refusing to rule out military action
over its nuclear drive and the United Nations imposing tough new
sanctions.


Oil prices had surged to near seven month highs above 69 dollars
over the standoff but in Asian trade, New York's main oil futures
contract down to 64.29 dollars a barrel.


Families of the Britons had erupted in joy and relief at the news
of their release, which came after 13 days of a heated propaganda
war.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


Iranian television showed the sole woman captive, Faye Turney,
telling an interviewer that the sailors "apologise for our
actions, but many thanks for having it in your hearts to let us
go free."


Ahmadinejad -- who saved his dramatic announcement until nearly
the end of the press conference -- lashed out at Britain over its
handling of the crisis and decorated a Revolutionary Guards
commander who had seized the Britons.


"The British government, in a letter, has vowed not to repeat
such incidents," he added.


His announcement came after Iran had applauded a "change of tone"
from Britain following talks between top security official Ali
Larijani and Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Sir Nigel
Sheinwald on Tuesday.


Syria -- Iran's top ally in the region -- had announced it was
mediating in the crisis after a call from Sheinwald.

