

A government-run primary school in Beijing has become the first
in the country to offer golf classes, a sport often attacked in
China for its elitist overtones, state media reported on
Thursday.


The Zhongguanxun Third School has brought in instructors from a
local golf club to teach optional classes for an extra fee of
3,000 yuan (388 dollars), the Beijing Times reported.


The fees is about one 10th of the average salary of an urban
worker in Beijing, based on the latest official income figures.


Separate courses in the classroom on the history and
understanding of golf will be mandatory for third-graders next
semester, the report said, adding they would not attract extra
fees as they would be part of the regular curriculum.


The school's headmaster, Wang Cuijuan, acknowledged concerns that
golf was "an aristrocratic sport", but said the classes would
help "nurture student etiquette and exercise a healthy influence
on their moral integrity".


"It's for the benefit of the children that we are doing this,"
Wang was quoted as saying.


She added that golf was an opportunity to get normally desk-bound
Chinese students out and into "nature" more often.


The paper described the school as a campus favoured by the
wealthy, whose parking lot is filled each morning with parents in
"brand name" cars dropping off their kids.


In Asia, golf is a game for society's rich and powerful, with
businesses often conducted on fairways and greens as well as in
board rooms.


Previous moves to introduce golf at the university level have
drawn harsh criticism as the sport was seen as an expensive
pursuit well out of the range of the vast majority of the
country's people.


Rampant golf course construction also has contributed to land-use
disputes that have resulted in violent protests by displaced
residents.


Bi Jianping, chairman of the Tianyi Golf Club that will teach the
courses at the campus in north Beijing, said the courses were an
opportunity to correct misunderstandings about the sport.


"By putting clubs in the hands of kids now, they could become
China's golf hopes of the future," he said.

