

The UN Security Council on Wednesday appealed to all parties in
East Timor to ensure that "free, fair and peaceful elections"
take place next week.


In a statement read by Britain's UN ambassador Emyr Jones Parry,
the council chair this month, the 15-member body expressed "full
support" for the polls scheduled for next Monday.


Council members described the polls as "a significant milestone
in the democratic process in the country" and urged all parties
"to adhere to the principle of non-violence and to democratic and
legal processes to ensure that the upcoming presidential election
have a unifying impact and contribute to bring the people of
Timor together."


They appealed to all Timorese parties "to ensure that free, fair
and peaceful elections take place."


Earlier Wednesday, East Timor President Xanana Gusmao warned of
violence during next Monday's election to choose his successor.


"There will be provocation from one group," Gusmao told AFP,
declining to identify it.


He was speaking at a rally for CNRT, a newly formed political
party which he says he intends to join with the aim of gaining
the prime minister's post, which holds much more power than the
presidency.


Gusmao is not running for re-election as president.


The CNRT, or National Congress of Reconstruction of Timor, has
the same initials in Portuguese as an umbrella group that sought
independence during a United Nations-supervised referendum in
which East Timorese voted to split from Indonesia in 1999.


Former prime minister Mari Alkatiri has alleged the new CNRT
party was deliberately given a misleading name to confuse and
deceive voters.


Alkatiri is secretary general of Fretilin, which led the
independence struggle and which is fielding a former senior
guerrilla fighter, Fransisco Guterres, as its presidential
candidate.


Five other candidates are running for election in the first
presidential ballot since the impoverished former Portuguese
colony became independent in 2002 after more than two decades of
Indonesian occupation.


Last year at least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced by
violence that led to the dispatch of Australian-led international
peacekeepers.

