

World oil prices were mixed on Wednesday after news that major
crude producer Iran had decided to free 15 British sailors and
official data that showed stockpiles of US motor fuel fell
heavily last week.


In London trading, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery rose 25 cents to 68.06 dollars per barrel in electronic
deals. It had fallen to 66.93 dollars on news of the sailors'
release.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dropped 34 cents to 64.30 dollars per barrel in
pit trading after touching 63.56.


Iran announced on Wednesday that it was releasing 15 British
sailors captured by the Islamic Republic almost a fortnight ago.


Concerns about the standoff caused by their detention had
propelled oil prices to seven-month highs above 69 dollars a
barrel in London on Monday.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil producer and traders are
concerned it might disrupt its exports.


On Wednesday, traders also digested a weekly report by the US
Department of Energy that showed gasoline (petrol) reserves fell
by five million barrels to 205.2 million last week, against a
forecast drawdown of 300,000 barrels.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched ahead of the US
driving season, which sees Americans take to the roads for their
summer vacations.


Altavest trader Tom Hartmann said the DoE report "should keep
(oil) prices well supported."


Regarding Iran, Britain and the United States welcomed the
unexpected announcement to free the sailors.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told reporters: "While
insisting on our rights, these 15 sailors have been pardoned and
we offer their freedom to the British people."


Iran had stalled over the sailors' release after Britain had
insisted that the 15 were seized in Iraqi waters on March 23.
Tehran maintains that they were in Iranian waters when captured.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish warned that "the nuclear
issue has not gone away."


Traders said oil price rises were also pared Wednesday by the
release of four foreign oil workers abducted last week in
Nigeria, Africa's biggest crude producer, dealers said.


British High Commission and industry sources said Wednesday that
a Briton, Dutch national and two Lebanese oil workers held
hostage in volatile oil-rich southern Nigeria since last Saturday
had been freed.


Nigeria has seen its oil production fall since last year owing to
disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.

