

Venus Williams' climb back toward the top of women's tennis
gained more momentum Wednesday as she ousted fourth-seeded Patty
Schnyder in the second round of the WTA tournamnent here.


The unseeded Williams improved to 9-0 against Schnyder with a
3-6, 6-3, 6-4 victory in the 600,000-dollar claycourt tournament.


Perhaps more importantly, she improved to 9-1 for the season. A
five-time Grand Slam champion, Williams has battled since late
last year to recover from a wrist injury and is playing in just
her third tournament of the season.


She ended a drought of almost two years with her triumph in
Memphis in February, but was eliminated in the third round at the
prestigious Tier One tournament in Miami.


Against Schnyder, who enjoyed a first-round bye, Williams
appeared to have a good chance to continue her comeback against a
player she had last beaten at the 2006 French Open.


Williams set up a third-round meeting with American Milen Tu, who
beat Germany's Martina Muller 6-3, 6-1


Second-seeded Jelena Jankovic of Serbia advanced to the third
round with ease, posting a 6-1, 6-2 triumph over Czech qualifier
Ivana Benesova.


The 22-year-old Jankovic improved on her performance here last
year, when she failed to make it out of the second round.


She booked a meeting with Ukrainian Alona Bondarenko, who beat
qualifier Yaroslava Shvedova of Russia 5-7, 6-3, 6-2


Sixth seed Ana Ivanovic of Serbia rallied to beat China's Peng
Shuai 1-6, 6-4, 6-3.


She advanced to a meeting with France's Nathalie Dechy, who
downed Greece's Eleni Daniilidou 6-3, 6-4


China also lost seventh-seeded Li Na, who fell 6-3, 6-3 to
unseeded Croatian Karolina Sprem on Wednesday morning.


Sprem's next opponent will be Austrian Sybille Bammer, who
cruised to a 6-1, 6-1 win over France's Virginie Razzano.


Eighth-seeded Tatiana Golovin of France also advanced, defeating
Catalina Castano of Colombia 6-0, 6-3.


Golovin next faces Australian Samantha Stosur, a 7-6 (8/6), 6-2
winner over Italy's Romina Oprandi.

