

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi discussed Iraq and the Palestinian
issue with King Abdullah on Wednesday after arriving in key
regional ally Saudi Arabia, official Saudi media said.


Pelosi, who was due to visit the oil-rich kingdom's all-male
Shura (consultative) Council, flew into Riyadh from Syria on the
latest leg of a Middle East tour.


She met with the Saudi monarch at his ranch in Janadriyah, some
40 kilometres (25 miles) northeast of the capital, SPA news
agency reported.


They discussed "the whole range of developments on the regional
and international scenes, chiefly those pertaining to the
Palestinian issue and the situation in Iraq," it said.


Her meeting with King Abdullah came one week after he slammed US
control of Iraq, describing it as "an illegitimate foreign
occupation."


Abdullah's remarks were made at a summit of Arab leaders in
Riyadh which relaunched a five-year-old blueprint for Arab-
Israeli peace.


The leading US Democrat had earlier been greeted in Riyadh by the
Saudi ambassador to the United States, Adel al-Jubair.


She was due to meet on Thursday with members of the Shura
Council, a 150-strong advisory body appointed by the king,
becoming the first US House speaker to do so.


Pelosi, who is expected to be received by speaker Saleh bin
Humaid, will not address a plenary session of the council as some
foreign leaders have done over the past year, but will have lunch
with a group of members.


The council does not include any women, who are subjected to a
host of restrictions in conservative Muslim Saudi Arabia.


But Mohammad Ibrahim al-Hulwah, who sits on the council's foreign
affairs committee and Saudi-US friendship committee, told AFP
that some female members of European and other parliaments had
visited the council before.


Pelosi met in Syria with President Bashar al-Assad and was
criticised by US President George W. Bush for sending "mixed
signals" that harmed his administration's efforts to isolate
Assad's regime over its alleged support for terrorism and
accusations of meddling in Iraq and Lebanon.

