

Aid agencies warned Thursday of a "race against time" to get help
to thousands of victims of the Solomons tsunami, as an outbreak
of disease raised fears of a humanitarian crisis.


The first emergency supplies began reaching camps where almost
5,500 survivors are sleeping out in the remote western region of
the impoverished South Pacific archipelago.


Government officials said they expected to reach most of the
stricken areas by the weekend but admitted problems were holding
up the distribution of much- needed aid.


More than three days after an 8.0 undersea earthquake and killer
tsunami devastated the western Solomon Island killing at least 32
people, the threat of disease is now menacing those who survived
the disaster.


"This is a race against time and it is becoming clear that access
to clean water and proper sanitation will be crucial over the
next few weeks, as there are already reports of outbreaks of
water-borne disease," said Oxfam New Zealand's executive
director, Barry Coates.


Cases of diarrhoea have been reported among children in Gizo, the
Western Province capital and a popular diving spot devastated by
the quake and subsequent tsunami. There are also fears of a
possible outbreak of malaria.


The first major consignment of aid was being distributed to about
2,000 victims sheltering in camps on the hill behind Gizo.


But a lack of drinking water was still a critical problem, said
Tanya Rad, programme manager of World Vision, the largest aid
group operating in the Solomons.


"We still badly need more drinking water as there are outbreaks
of diarrhoea among children in the camps where many people are
taking water from contaminated sources," she told AFP.


Only one of three shiploads of aid due to have left the capital
Honiara on Wednesday left on schedule, because of problems
gathering the needed supplies, government communications director
Alfred Maesulia said.


"The effort is to get those two boats to leave as soon as
possible (Thursday) but there are difficulties here because some
materials they would like to put on those boats are not
available," he said.


The distribution of aid in isolated areas around Gizo has been
further delayed due to a lack of boats and rough seas, he said.


Aid supplies were to be boosted Thursday with the expected
arrival in the western town of Munda of an air force cargo plane
from Australia carrying food and other emergency goods.


A French military aircraft carrying supplies from New Caledonia
was also due to arrive in Gizo.


A United Nations disaster response team was due to arrive in the
Solomon Islands to help coordinate relief efforts, according to
the world body's humanitarian coordination office (OCHA) in
Geneva.


Maesulia said the official death toll had reached 32 but this was
expected to rise as victims' bodies were identified.


Captain Jack Bana of the Solomon Islands Search and Rescue
organisation said he had received reports of 10 people still
missing at sea.


"It's difficult because we don't know exactly what their location
is," he said.


Police in patrol boats, helicopters and a plane continued to comb
long stretches of unroaded coastline and scores of small islands
to assess casualties and damage.


"Accounting for people is the police's primary role at the moment
and we're assisting where possible with the distribution of
relief," police spokesman Mick Spinks said.

