

The search for a first homebred major champion from Asia is just
around the corner, says Indian star Jeev Milkha Singh.


The reigning Asian Tour number one is competing in his maiden
Masters at Augusta National Golf Club this week and feels the
long wait could be over in the near future.


"I think the time is getting closer for an Asian to win a Major,"
said Singh on the eve of the year's first Major.


"For an Asian Tour player to win, I don't see that as being too
far away. It's basically your mind set, you have to believe in
yourself when you're playing out there and if you keep believing
in yourself you'll be as good as anybody else.


"Golf is a global sport now, that's great to see. It's good as
the Asians will know that we can play against the best. We are
good enough to play in big events and we're going to see a lot
more talent coming through."


Chinese Taipei's "Mr" Lu Liang-huan came close when he finished
second behind Lee Trevino in the 1971 British Open while Korea's
K.J. Choi enjoyed a third place finish at the 2004 Masters.


With the Asian Tour maintaining its growth with a record schedule
of over 27 million dollars on offer this season, Singh believes
the number of talent coming through will one day yield a Major
triumph.


The Indian stalwart, who inherited his sporting genes from his
father who was an Olympic sprinter, said Asian players were not
inferior to any of the global's elite when it comes to golfing
abilities.


"There's not much difference between the players," said Singh,
who enjoyed four wins on three different Tours last year.


"We need to handle the golf courses better. American courses are
a bit different from the golf we play in Asia. We normally dart
every shot at the flags, but in America, if you miss on the wrong
side, you've got no shot.


"You have to learn to hold back on some shots and play for the
middle of the green and just two putt. If you one putt, that's
good," said Singh, who will be joined at the Masters by Choi and
his compatriot Yang Yong-eun.


As the first Indian at the Masters, the 35-year-old has been
enjoying the spotlight from the international media, featuring in
Sports Illustrated and Augusta Chronicle, but come Thursday, he
will set aside the attention to focus on his routine and thought
process.

