

Greg Chappell chose to walk out than be shown the door after it
became increasingly evident that India's cricket chiefs would not
extend his tenure as coach.


Chappell, the former Australian captain, sent an e-mail to the
Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Wednesday saying
he did not want to seek an extension due to "family and personal"
reasons.


The decision came ahead of crucial BCCI meetings here on Friday
and Saturday to take stock of India's dismal World Cup
performance where they were knocked out of the first round.


Just last week, Chappell had told confidants he would not resign
and was keen to renew his two-year contract as coach that ended
with the World Cup.


BCCI insiders say Chappell changed his mind after growing media
speculation that he had fallen out with senior players, whom he
is reported to have described as "a mafia" in one newspaper
report.


Chappell distanced himself from the snowballing controversy,
saying he will not speak till he had sumbitted his report to the
BCCI on Friday.


The link finally snapped when senior pro Sachin Tendulkar
responded to media reports that Chappell had blamed the unhelpful
attitude of senior players for the disastrous World Cup campaign.


In a rare public outburst, the normally reticent Tendulkar said
he would be hurt if Chappell had questioned his or the team's
commitment.


"No coach had mentioned even in passing that my attitude was not
correct," said Tendulkar, statistically the most successful
batsman ever with a world record 35 Test and 41 one-day centuries


"It's not that we are defending ourselves. We do realise that we
played badly and, as a team, we take full responsibility for
that. But what hurt us most is if the coach has questioned our
attitude."


Former India players and television experts, Ajay Jadeja and Arun
Lal, were convinced Chappell's days were numbered ever since the
World Cup ended.


"If Tendulkar was forced to speak, things must have been really
bad between Chappell and the senior players," said Jadeja.


"I will believe Tendulkar more than Chappell. And the BCCI also
would rather stick with the players."


Lal said he had also not expected Chappell to continue.


"His mandate was to make a team for the World Cup. Maybe two
years was not enough, but no one also expected such a poor
performance," he said.


Under Chappell, India won 32 of their 62 one-day internationals
and seven of 18 Tests. But the team faltered when it mattered
most.


India, one of the pre-tournament favourites, were upset by
Bangladesh in the first match and also lost to Sri Lanka to
record their worst World Cup performance since 1979.


Chappell will get his chance to apprise the BCCI of what went
wrong in the Caribbean - including his assessment of all players
- at the brainstorming session here on Friday.


The outspoken Australian batting great generated more heat,
controversy and headlines in two years as India's coach than his
genial predecessor John Wright did in five years on the job.


Chappell became the media's whipping boy early in his tenure when
criticism of Sourav Ganguly's laid-back attitude saw the
country's most successful captain being thrown out of the team.


Chappell's displeasure at the exclusion of juniors like Suresh
Raina for the World Cup, as revealed in a text message to a
journalist, raised the heckles of both the selectors and senior
players.


"If Greg had his way, even Sachin Tendulkar would have been
dropped," the Kolkata-based Telegraph newspaper quoted an unnamed
selector as saying.


Influential cricket officials believe the team has not moved
forward in the two years that Chappell has been coach. Many say
the 2003 World Cup finalists have fallen behind other teams.


India must find Chappell's replacement quickly since they are due
to tour Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three one-day
internationals.

