

The dollar fell against the other main currencies Wednesday as
weaker-than- expected economic data curbed early enthusiasm for
the greenback following news of Iran's release of 15 British
sailors.


The euro edged up to 1.3367 dollars at 2100 GMT, from 1.3329
dollars late in New York on Tuesday.


The dollar fell to 118.70 yen, compared with 118.89 late on
Tuesday.


An early lift for the greenback came from the news on Iran which
also resulted in a temporary drop in oil prices. But the impact
quickly faded.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
to 52.4 in March, down from 54.3 in February, while analysts had
expected a reading of 54.7. A reading above 50 percent signifies
expansion.


Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets said the dollar losses accelerated
after the ISM report, "offsetting any upside reaction from Iran's
decision to free the 15 British sailors."


Laidi added: "The fact that the much touted services sector is
now joining its manufacturing counterpart into slowdown mode
raises questions about the prospects of a soft economic landing."


"There's been a rash of disappointing US data this afternoon
which has put pressure on the dollar," said Mitul Kotecha, head
of forex strategy at Calyon.


"The data also gives us a bit of a clue for Friday's jobs report
and it's pointing towards the downside," he added, referring to a
key jobs report by the US Labor Department on Friday.


Other data showed US factory orders rose 1.0 percent in February
after falling a revised 5.7 percent in the previous month.
Economists had expected new orders to rise 1.9 percent in
February.


The euro was boosted by data that showed growth in the service
sector of the 13 countries that share the European single
currency remained at a high level in March, despite a loss of
steam last month.


The eurozone purchasing managers index (PMI) for the service
sector, compiled by the research group NTC Economics, slipped
marginally to 57.4 points in March from 57.5 in February.


Private economists had forecast an increase to 57.6 points.


Elsewhere, the yen struggled to recover as players continued to
take advantage of Japan's low interest rates to raise funds to
invest overseas, dealers said.


In so-called carry trades, investors buy currency from countries
with low interest rates, such as Japan, in order to invest in
assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as Britain
or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


Pressure on the yen eased somewhat after Australia's central bank
left interest rates on hold, despite market speculation of a rate
hike that had lifted the Australian dollar to a 10-year high
against the US unit.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood 1.2197 Swiss francs
after 1.2224 Tuesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9759 dollars from 1.9738 late on
Tuesday.

