

A top criminal lawyer announced Wednesday that his commission
found no evidence of collusion over the rapid winding down by
police of the investigation into Ireland's worst-ever terrorist
atrocities.


Some 33 people, including a French woman and an Italian man, were
killed in car bombings in Dublin and the border town of Monaghan
in May 1974.


No one has every been charged for what was the worst single day's
death toll during Northern Ireland's "Troubles" on either side of
the border.


Lawyer Patric MacEntee was appointed by the government in 2005 to
review aspects of the bombings.


He said he had received submissions alleging collusion "on the
part of persons in this State and persons in the United Kingdom"
that "adversely affected" the Garda (Irish police) investigation
into the bombings.


The police investigation was wound down in July 1974.


MacEntee reported that the police commissioner believed this was
because senior officers felt nothing more could be done with the
information then avaiable. to the police.


MacEntee said he was "satisfied that there is no evidence
available to it (the inquiry) which is capable of establishing
any connection between the collusion alleged and the 'winding
down' of the Garda investigations".


Two senior judges, who had previously been involved in probes
into the bombings, had complained about lack of co-operation by
the British.


McEntee says the British government had helped his inquiry "by
disclosing material relevant to certain of the matters under
investigation".


Nevertheless, he said his report had been limited "by not having
access to original security and intelligence documents in the
possession of the British government".


A relatives and survivors group, Justice for the Forgotten (JFF),
has been campaigning for a full public inquiry.


Prime Minister Bertie Ahern described McEntee's 249-page report
as "a further step on the way to uncovering the truth of what
happened on that terrible day in 1974 when so many people lost
their lives or were injured".


There have been allegations down the years that British forces in
Northern Ireland colluded with Protestant terrorist groups in the
planting of the bombs.

