

The US Wednesday welcomed Iran's release of 15 British naval
personnel, but remained evasive about the fate of five Iranians
held incognito since being seized in Iraq three months ago.


President George W. Bush "welcomes the news," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino said, after Tehran announced it was
releasing the 15 captured on March 23 in Gulf waters.


But the US administration was at pains to deny any link between
the release, and reports Wednesday that five Iranians captured by
US forces in the northern Iraqi city of Arbil in January would be
granted their first consular access.


On Tuesday Bush appeared to rule out any deal to win the Britons'
release, saying he agreed with British Prime Minister Tony Blair
"that there should be no quid pro quos when it comes to the
hostages."


"There is no link whatsoever. Neither we nor the British nor
anyone else, as far as I know, has made that link," State
Department spokesman Tom Casey said when asked if there was a
connection between Wednesday's events.


"It would be pure speculation on my part to try and ascribe
motive to any of this stuff. I simply don't know and I don't
think anyone does short of the Iranians," the spokesman added.


Blair also insisted Wednesday there had been "no negotiation" to
secure the freedom of the captured British sailors and marines.


"Throughout we have taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not
negotiating but not confronting either," he said.


But he thanked Britain's partners, including "friends and allies
in the region," for their efforts, amid reports that he had
called on Syria to help mediate with Iran.


The surprise announcement by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad that the 15 were being freed coincided with the
release on Monday in Baghdad of Iranian diplomat, Jalal Sharafi,
kidnapped at gunpoint in Iraq in early February.


Iranian state media also said earlier Wednesday that the five
Iranian officials captured in January in Iraq were expected to
receive their first visit by an Iranian diplomat.


But US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell told
reporters in Baghdad that a consular request to visit the five
was still being examined.


"There is a consular request and it is being assessed," he said.


The five were arrested by US forces in Arbil in Iraqi Kurdistan
on January 11, with the United States accusing the men of being
members of the elite Al-Quds brigade of Iran's Revolutionary
Guards.


In both cases, the US administration has denied any linkage to
the release of the British sailors and marines.


The United States was not behind the kidnapping of Sharafi and
therefore was not responsible for his release, State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said Tuesday.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said however the foreign
ministry had been working to secure Sharafi's release for some
time saying the ministry had pursued the matter with "all the
relevant authorities."


"We approached, contacted, followed that case with both Iraqi
entities and American entities with the same vigor to ensure the
release," the minister said.


But asked about the Sharafi case, McCormack expressed surprise at
any US involvement: "Certainly not to my knowledge. I don't think
we have had or have anything to do in any respect with this
case."


As for the timing of the announcement of the Britons' release and
the granting of consular access to the five detained Iranians,
the State Department said it was pure coincidence.


The US administration has so far remained vague about the fate of
the five, who Theran has said were diplomats working in a
consulate office in Arbil.


"They are being treated as any other security detainee in Iraq,"
McCormack said.


"Let's remember why they are being detained. They are being
detained because they were involved in networks that were
providing EFDs (explosive foreign devices) to individuals in Iraq
for using those EFDs against our troops."


Washington has accused Iranian groups of arming Iraqi insurgents
with sophisticated explosives capable of penetrating armored
vehicles and fomenting trouble in Iraq.


But despite repeated questions neither the State Department or
the Pentagon has provided answers as to where the five Iranians
are being held, their status or the charges which could be
leveled against them.

