

The White House on Wednesday sharply condemned US House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi's trip to Syria, saying the road to Damascus was
"lined with the victims" of Syrian-backed extremists.


Vice President Dick Cheney said in a radio interview that the
visit undermined US-led efforts to isolate Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad and instead rewarded his "bad behavior" in
Lebanon, Iraq and elsewhere.


"He's been isolated and cut off because of his bad behavior. And
the unfortunate thing about the Speaker's visit is it sort of
breaks down that barrier," Cheney told ABC radio.


"It means without him having done any of those things he should
do in order to be acceptable, if you will, from an international
standpoint, he gets a visit from a high-ranking American anyway.
In other words, his bad behavior is being rewarded," the vice
president said.


Pelosi, the top Democrat in the US House of Representatives and
the most senior US official to visit Syria in years, has shrugged
off such criticisms and pointed out that some of US President
George W. Bush's Republican allies met Assad days ago without
drawing a public White House rebuke.


Bush aides say they objected privately to those visits -- but the
White House on Wednesday fiercely assailed Pelosi's trip in
public, playing off her reported comment that the road to Middle
East peace goes through Damascus.


"She, earlier today, said that the road to Damascus is a road to
peace. Unfortunately, that road is lined with the victims of
Hamas and Hezbollah, and the victims of terrorists who cross from
Syria into Iraq," said national security council spokesman Gordon
Johndroe.


"It's lined with the victims in Lebanon, who are trying to fight
for democracy there. It's lined with human rights activists
trying for freedom and democracy in Syria," he said. "We don't
think these meetings are productive."


Still, Johndroe told reporters, "we'll listen to what she has to
say after she returns from the Middle East."


Pelosi has said her trip was inspired by the bipartisan Iraq
Study Group, which concluded late last year in a report to Bush
that directly engaging Syria and Iran was critical to any effort
to quell deadly violence in Iraq.


She said she also raised with Assad and other top Syrian
officials her "concern" about alleged support for militant groups
Hamas and Hezbollah and infiltrations into Iraq.


Bush on Tuesday condemned her trip as "counterproductive" and
said it sent "mixed messages" that undermine US-led efforts to
isolate Assad.


"The United States has been working in multilateral forums with
countries in the region and countries in Europe, to send a
message to the Syrians that they need to change their behavior,"
Johndroe said aboard Air Force One as Bush headed here to speak
to US soldiers.


"And it's unfortunate that she took this unilateral trip that we
only see as counterproductive," he said.


Pelosi's voting record suggests no particular fondness for the
government in Damascus: she co-sponsored and voted in favor of
the "Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration
Act" of 2003 which Bush signed into law and later relied on to
impose broad sanctions on Damascus.


Washington slapped a bevy of economic sanctions on Syria in 2004
over its alleged ties to terrorism and withdrew its ambassador
from Damascus after the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese
prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


A UN probe has implicated Syrian officials in the murder despite
Damascus' denials.


The Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah set off a devastating
34-day war with Israel last year after capturing two soldiers in
a cross-border raid, while gunmen linked to Hamas were involved
in the capture of another Israeli soldier at an army post on the
Gaza border.


The key issue between Israel and Syria is that of the Golan
Heights, captured by Israel in 1967 and annexed in 1981. Previous
peace talks have faltered on the issue of the strategic plateau.

