

The United States on Wednesday welcomed Iran's release of 15
British naval personnel, but remained evasive about the fate of
five Iranians held since being seized in Iraq three months ago.


President George W. Bush "welcomes the news," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino said, after Tehran announced it was
releasing the 15 captured on March 23 in Gulf waters.


But Washington was at pains to deny any link between the release
and reports that five Iranians captured by US forces in Iraq in
January would be granted their first consular access.


On Tuesday Bush appeared to rule out any deal to win the Britons'
release, saying he agreed with British Prime Minister Tony Blair
"that there should be no quid pro quos when it comes to the
hostages."


"There is no link whatsoever" between Wednesday's events, said
State Department spokesman Tom Casey. "It would be pure
speculation on my part to try and ascribe motive to any of this
stuff."


Blair also insisted Wednesday there had been "no negotiation" to
secure the freedom of the captured British sailors and marines.


"Throughout we have taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not
negotiating but not confronting either," he said.


He thanked Britain's partners, including "friends and allies in
the region," for their efforts, amid reports that he had called
on Syria to help mediate with Iran.


The surprise announcement by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad that the 15 were being freed followed the release on
Monday in Baghdad of an Iranian diplomat, Jalal Sharafi,
kidnapped at gunpoint in Iraq in early February.


Iranian state media also said earlier Wednesday that the five
Iranian officials captured in January in Iraq were expected to
receive their first visit by an Iranian diplomat.


In Baghdad, US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell
told reporters that a consular request to visit the five Iranians
"is being assessed."


The five were arrested by US forces in the northern city of
Arbil, in Iraqi Kurdistan, on January 11. US officials said the
men were members of the elite Al-Quds brigade of Iran's
Revolutionary Guards.


Concerning Sharafi, US officials were not behind his kidnapping
and the country was therefore not responsible for his release,
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Tuesday.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said however that his
office had "approached, contacted, followed that case with both
Iraqi entities and American entities ... to ensure the release."


McCormack Wednesday expressed surprise at the suggestion of US
involvement in Sharafi's release. "I don't think we have had or
have anything to do in any respect with this case," he said.


He said it was pure coincidence that the announcement of the
Britons' release came the same day consular access was granted to
the detained Iranians.


US officials have remained vague about their fate, declining to
say where they are being held. "They are being treated as any
other security detainee in Iraq," McCormack said.


"They are being detained because they were involved in networks
that were providing EFDs (explosive foreign devices) to
individuals in Iraq for using those EFDs against our troops."


Tehran has said the five were diplomats working in a consulate
office in Arbil.


Washington has accused Iranian groups of arming Iraqi insurgents
with sophisticated explosives capable of penetrating armored
vehicles and fomenting trouble in Iraq.


In a separate case, State Department spokesman Tom Casey said
that Tehran has asked Washington for details on a retired FBI
agent missing in Iran for weeks.


The Iranians "have said that they were looking into this matter
and asked us for additional information including our best
understanding of when he arrived," Casey said, stressing that
Washington saw no connection between the man's disappearance and
the case of the British personnel.


US officials have said the man went missing while visiting Kish,
a small island off Iran's southern coast that has grown into a
major resort and consumer duty- free trade zone. Press reports
said he was researching a documentary.


Washington and Tehran broke diplomatic ties 27 years ago and US
interests in Iran are conducted via Switzerland.

