

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was due to visit an all-male
advisory council in key ally Saudi Arabia Thursday after
discussing Iraq with King Abdullah on the last leg of a
controversial Middle East trip.


Pelosi, whose earlier stop in Syria has been fiercely criticised
by the White House, met with the Saudi monarch late Wednesday,
one week after he slammed US control of Iraq as "an illegitimate
foreign occupation" and warned that the country could slide into
a sectarian civil war.


Abdullah and the leading US Democrat discussed "the whole range
of developments on the regional and international scenes, chiefly
those pertaining to the Palestinian issue and the situation in
Iraq," official Saudi media said.


Abdullah blasted the US occupation of Iraq during an Arab summit
in Riyadh which revived a five-year-old Arab plan that offers
Israel normal relations if it withdraws from all land seized in
the 1967 war and allows the creation of a Palestinian state and
the return of Palestinian refugees.


Oil powerhouse Saudi Arabia led the drive to relaunch the Saudi-
authored blueprint amid concern in the Sunni-dominated kingdom
about the ongoing violence in Iraq between the once ruling
minority Sunnis and the majority governing Shiites who are close
to Iran, the region's Shiite heavyweight.


Analysts said the king's criticism reflected a belief that the US
administration's strategy in Iraq is doomed as well as
frustration that President George W. Bush has rejected a Saudi-
brokered power-sharing deal between US-backed Palestinian
moderates and the militant Islamist group Hamas.


The Bush administration, which is fighting attempts by the
Democratic-controlled Congress to set a timetable for the pullout
of US troops from Iraq, has accused Pelosi of undermining efforts
to isolate the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over
its alleged support of terrorism and purported meddling in Iraq
and Lebanon.


Pelosi has shrugged off the accusation and said after meeting
Assad on Wednesday that she wanted to help promote peace between
Syria and Israel.


But the Jewish state promptly issued a string of demands it
wanted satisfied over Syria's alleged support of terrorism and
close links to Iran before any "real" peace talks could begin.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has said he was ready to
attend a meeting with Arab leaders to discuss the revived peace
plan but has been accused by the Arab League of seeking
normalised ties without making concessions.


Pelosi was due to meet on Thursday with members of Saudi Arabia's
Shura (consultative) Council, a 150-strong advisory body
appointed by the king, becoming the first US House speaker to do
so.


Pelosi, who is expected to be greeted by speaker Saleh bin
Humaid, will not address a plenary session of the council as some
foreign leaders have done over the past year, but will have lunch
with a group of members.


The council does not include any women, who are subjected to a
host of restrictions in conservative Muslim Saudi Arabia.


But Mohammad Ibrahim al-Hulwah, who sits on the council's foreign
affairs committee and Saudi-US friendship committee, told AFP
that some female members of European and other parliaments had
visited the council before.


Pelosi, who met Israeli and Palestinian leaders and also visited
Lebanon during her tour, was due to leave Saudi Arabia early
Friday.

