

Philippine fans are in an uproar over a bid to ban national
boxing hero Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao's next fight from TV over
concern it could give him an unfair edge in next month's
elections.


Broadcast outlets have been flooded with calls and text messages
over the attempt to block the upcoming title bout of Pacquiao, a
superfeatherweight known as the "National Fist" who is standing
for Congress.


The 27-year-old World Boxing Council (WBC) champ will take on
undefeated Mexican challenger Jorge Solis in Texas on April 14 in
a title bout expected to be shown in his native Philippines.


But Darlene Antonino-Custodio, whose seat Pacquiao is out to win,
filed a petition with the election commission this week, seeking
to stop the broadcast of the fight to prevent him having an
"undue advantage."


Elections Commissioner Resurreccion Borra said the commission
would debate the merits of the petition, but fight fans and
supporters of Pacquiao have been infuriated.


"There are rules in elections but Pacquiao is a phenomenon. He is
the only thing right now that excites the whole country," boxing
columnist Recah Trinidad told AFP.


"How can you sacrifice that just because of some silly political
exercise?"


Pacquiao is seeking Custodio's congressional seat representing
South Cotabato province in Mindanao island, where the boxer
traces his roots.


The Manila Times reported that residents in the south have been
angered by Custodio's attempt and suggested it could backfire.


Pacquiao, a former construction worker, is regarded as the most
sensational fighter ever produced by the Philippines. The Boxing
Writers Association of America and The Ring magazine named him
2006 fighter of the year.


But political polls show he is so beloved that many do not want
the millionaire brawler stepping into the rough-and-tumble world
of politics in the Philippines, ranked as one of the most corrupt
nations on the planet.


"People do not want Pacquiao in this dirty political game. They
are afraid it would ruin him," Trinidad said. "So they might vote
for his opponent, just to save him from falling into that pit."

