

President Kay Rala "Xanana" Gusmao will soon cease to be East
Timor's head of state, but the charismatic former rebel leader
already has his eye on the troubled country's most powerful job.


Gusmao says he will join a new political party and seek to become
prime minister, a job with much more clout than the largely
ceremonial position he currently holds but has decided to vacate.


The bearded Gusmao, a hero for many East Timorese because of his
exploits as a guerrilla who fought occupation by neighbouring
Indonesia, became the tiny country's first president in 2002.


His landslide victory came after a three-decade personal journey
from peaceful campaigning against Portuguese colonialists, to
guerrilla warfare against Indonesia and political imprisonment in
Jakarta.


Gusmao was already involved with a group seeking East Timor's
independence when Indonesian troops poured into the territory in
1975 and the Portuguese withdrew.


The invasion was a turning point for the future president, who
took to the hills to fight the occupiers, leaving behind his wife
and two children to become a guerrilla leader.


The rebels, despite limited resources, managed to stretch
Indonesia's military with small-scale attacks across East Timor.
But in 1992 Gusmao was captured, accused of subversion and
jailed.


He continued to direct the resistance movement from behind bars
in Jakarta. He also painted and wrote poetry, earning him the
sobriquet of the "poet warrior.'


It was during his incarceration that Gusmao began corresponding
with the woman who would become his second wife, Australian aid
worker Kirsty Sword, with whom he has three young children.


The downfall of the dictator Suharto ushered in a new era of
democracy for Indonesia, and allowed Gusmao to glimpse freedom.


He was moved from jail and placed under house arrest in 1999,
before being freed altogether that same year, hours after his
compatriots voted for independence in a UN-administered
referendum.


He received a hero's welcome on his triumphant return to the
capital, Dili.


Gusmao made it his policy to forgive and forget the injustices
meted out to the half-island under Indonesia's often brutal rule
-- a stance many of his supporters found challenging.


Despite the presidency's weak powers under East Timor's
constitution, Gusmao also managed to wield influence.


He threatened to resign last year during violent turmoil, the
worst in the nation's short history since its formal independence
in 2002, unless the prime minister at the time, Mari Alkatiri,
took responsibility.


The president's stance helped to push Alkatiri out. The
leadership passed to Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta, a
frontrunner to win the presidential poll on Monday.


The 60-year-old Gusmao, grey with age but still trim and
sprightly, said he was tired of politics when he decided against
seeking re-election.


Publicly Gusmao has always insisted he did not want to be
president. Pressure from colleagues led him to run for the post
in 2002.


"I always said I would like to be a pumpkin farmer. It is still
my dream," he has said. "I never ever wanted to be president. I
still don't want to be president."


But it seems he does not feel that way about the most powerful
job in the country.

