

Commonwealth Games 400 metres champion Christine Ohuruogu lost
her appeal against a year-long suspension for missing three anti-
doping tests, sport's top court announced on Wednesday.


A panel of judges at the Court of Arbitration of Sport (CAS)
ruled that the 22 -year-old British sprinter had committed a
doping offence under the rules of the International Association
of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and that the suspension was
valid.


"The Panel considered that the suspension was proportionate and
should not be disturbed," said CAS in a statement.


"This case should serve as a warning to all athletes that the
relevant authorities take the provision of whereabouts
information extremely seriously as they are a vital part in the
ongoing fight against drugs in the sport."


Ohuruogu remains ineligible to compete until 6 August 2007
although theoretically she could still compete in this summer's
World Championships which will be held in Osaka, Japan, and start
on August 25.


Despite upholding the ban, CAS did have a few crumbs of comfort
for Ohuruogu.


"There is no suggestion that she is guilty of taking drugs in
order to enhance her performance or otherwise and, indeed, this
case can be viewed in all the circumstances as a busy young
athlete being forgetful," added CAS.


The comment by CAS that there is no suggestion that she is guilty
of deliberately taking drugs gives Ohuruogu hope that she may yet
compete in the Olympics despite the British Olympic Association's
hardline stance.


Under current British Olympic Association rules she faces a
lifetime ban from the Olympics.


However, Ohuruogu has suggested she may also appeal against that
particular situation, and she may possibly be backed by the
sport's national governing body UK Athletics.


Ohuruogu had been touted as a potential star of the 2008 and 2012
Olympics after her Melbourne victory a year ago.


"We welcome CAS' confirmation that there is no suggestion that
Christine is guilty of taking drugs, and would like to see her
return to competition following the conclusion of her ban,"
commented UK Athletics chairman Ed Warner on Wednesday.


UK Athletics' backing for Ohuruogu in her Olympic appeal could be
crucial to her staying in the sport.


The runner said last September that there would be no point in
continuing to compete if she could not run in the Games.

