

Sajid Mahmood took a career-best four for 50 as England held Sri
Lanka to 235 all out in their World Cup Super Eights match at the
Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here Wednesday.


Mahmood received good support from Lancashire team-mate Andrew
Flintoff (three for 35) in a disciplined England bowling display.


Upul Tharanga (62) and Sri Lanka skipper Mahela Jayawardene (56)
were the major contributors in an innings which never took off
after dangerous opener Sanath Jayasuriya had made a typically
rapid 25.


England, after captain Michael Vaughan won the toss and elected
to field on a pitch with moisture still in it, saw James Anderson
begin with a maiden to Tharanga.


But, at the other end, Sajid Mahmood's first ball was off target
and leg-glanced for four by Jayasuriya who later produced a
trademark square cut for four through backward point when the
bowler was off-line.


Jayasuriya, who scored 115 in Sri Lanka's 113-run over the West
Indies on Sunday, then top-edged a pull off Mahmood which still
had enough on it to fly over fine leg for six.


Last year Sri Lanka beat hosts England 5-0 in a one-day series,
culminating in an eight-wicket win at Headingley in July where
left-handers Tharanga (109) and Jayasuriya (152) shared a world
record first-wicket stand of 286.


But Mahmood ensured there was nothing like a repeat of that
partnership.


Jayasuriya, playing defensively with an angled bat, inside-edged
Mahmood onto his stumps for 25, made off just 26 balls with one
six and four fours.


But his side were now 37 for one off eight overs after England
had captured Sri Lanka's prize wicket.


New batsman Kumar Sangakkara, on 17, chipped a full toss from
Mahmood to Paul Collingwood at point and Sri Lanka were 69 for
two.


Tharanga, who had been patient, went down the pitch to loft left-
arm spinner Monty Panesar for a first four in 79 balls.


After completing a 91-ball fifty, Tharanga looked to up the tempo
with a dashing late cut four off Flintoff.


But going for a pull against England's star all-rounder,
Tharanga's 103-ball innings when he top-edged to Kevin Pietersen,
running round from mid-on to leave Sri Lanka 160 for three in the
35th over.


Jayawardene, fresh from his 82 against West Indies, was in
composed form during a 61-ball stay featuring four fours.


But going for a big shot against medium-pacer Paul Collingwood,
he holed out to Ed Joyce on the mid-wicket boundary.


Tillakaratne Dilshan was the brilliantly run out by Ian Bell at
mid-off for five after the fielder half-stopped the ball and got
up to throw down the stumps at the bowler's end.


Sri Lanka's late collapse continued when Flintoff bowled Chamara
Silva for 23 with a full-length delivery.


And when he had Chaminda Vaas superbly caught by a diving
Collingwood at backward point. Mahmood struck twice late on
before the innings ended with a last ball run-out.

