

The parents of "American Taliban" John Walker Lindh called on US
President George W. Bush to free their son, on Wednesday
contrasting his 20-year sentence with the nine months handed
Australian David Hicks.


Lawyers for Lindh's family told reporters they would petition
Bush and the Justice Department, calling for the 26-year-old's
sentence to be commuted.


They said Lindh's sentence was unduly harsh compared to the nine-
month sentence Hicks received at a US military tribunal at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba last week, after he pleaded guilty to a
terrorism charge.


"Given the result in the Hicks case we are filing with the
president and the Department of Justice a request for commutation
of John Walker Lindh's sentence," lawyer Jim Brosnahan told
reporters.


"It is very simple. It is a question of proportionality, it is a
question of fairness."


Lindh's mother Marilyn Walker said her son, who was detained in
Afghanistan in December 2001 while fighting for the Taliban
against Northern Alliance forces, had never fought against US
forces and never endorsed terrorism.


"We hope that president Bush will respond today with sympathy and
compassion," she said. "We ask president Bush to please commute
John's prison sentence."


"John has been in prison for more than five years and it is time
for him to come home," she added.


Asked if she felt her son's treatment was unfair in the light of
Hicks' nine- month term, she replied: "It's quite a difference
... what more can I say?"


Lindh's father, Frank Lindh, told reporters: "I think it is
unfair. Remember that John did not plead guilty to any sort of
terrorism offense.


"David Hicks pleaded guilty to assisting a terrorist
organization, and yet he will be home with his family in nine
months. We wish John could be home with us in nine months' time."


Lindh pleaded not guilty in early 2002 to a 10-count indictment,
which included charges of providing support to foreign terrorist
organizations as well as contributing services to the Taliban and
Al-Qaeda.


In a later plea deal, however, all terrorist-related charges were
dropped in exchange for Lindh pleading guilty to two counts of
serving in the Taliban army and carrying weapons.


He was jailed for 20 years without possibility of parole in
October 2002 and is currently being held at a Supermax maximum-
security federal prison in Colorado.


Brosnahan said Lindh had been a victim of the climate of fear
that gripped the United States in the months following the
September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.


"The time following 9/11 was a time of tremendous turmoil, of
concern and worry," he said. "And there was a feeling that
anybody connected to the Taliban should be treated very harshly.
And John was treated very harshly."

