

Tokyo's outspoken nationalist Governor Shintaro Ishihara looks to
be on his way to securing a third term this weekend as leader of
the world's largest city as Japan rides a wave of patriotism.


The novelist-turned-politician, an independent who is supported
by Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party, is well ahead in
opinion polls despite growing criticism over a series of
scandals.


Some 10.42 million Tokyo residents are eligible to vote Sunday in
one of 13 prefectural elections across Japan in the run-up to
July elections for the upper house of parliament.


Ishihara has long courted controversy with blunt remarks such as
using racial slurs to deride Chinese and Korean residents and
describing women past childbearing age as "hags."


But he has grown popular through strong-armed leadership such as
banning diesel engines to improve air quality.


His platform calls for tougher measures against crime and -- his
pet project -- bringing the Summer Olympics to Tokyo in 2016.


"I want to continue steering as if my life is at stake," the 74
-year-old said of seeking another four years in office. "I still
have a lot of things to do. Please give me support."


The wall of his election office has a portable Shinto shrine with
an amulet of a god for samurai warriors with a banner reading:
"Never surrender, Shintaro!"


Ishihara, whose 1999 election was a harbinger of a national tilt
right, may face difficulties after uproar over a public works
project being awarded to his son and the governor's high spending
on overseas trips.


But he remains well ahead in polls in what experts attribute not
only to his ideas but to his straight-shooting style.


"If he is re-elected, people especially overseas would regard it
as another sign of a reemergence of Japanese nationalism," said
Tetsuro Kato, a professor of international politics at
Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo.


Asian countries haunted by Japan's past aggression were outraged
after conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last month denied
Japan coerced Asian women into World War II brothels. He later
apologised to the women.


"It is true that there is a certain move to nationalism among
some groups in the country," said Susumu Takahashi, professor of
politics at the University of Tokyo.


"Electing Ishihara means, to some extent, voters in Tokyo give
approval for his leadership as well as his views," said
Takahashi.


The popular governor is often compared to former prime minister
Junichiro Koizumi, who won record popularity for his stubborn
leadership in a country where ruling by consensus is the norm.


Abe has faced sagging popularity due largely to questions about
his authority, raising anxiety in the Liberal Democratic Party
about the July national elections.


But it is uncertain whether the party would enjoy a sizable boost
from a victory by Ishihara, a former Liberal Democrat who turned
down any party endorsement.


Ishihara is up against 13 candidates including a street musician,
a taxi driver, a feng shui expert and even a fortune teller.


His most prominent opponents are Shiro Asano, a former governor
of northern Miyagi prefecture backed by the opposition who
denounces Ishihara for "arrogance," and renowned architect Kisho
Kurokawa.


Ishihara, who recalls disliking US troops as a child after World
War II, entered the political spotlight two decades ago with a
book demanding Japan "say no" to Washington.


As governor, he has led a high-profile battle for commercial
planes to use a sprawling US air base in Tokyo's suburbs.


On his official website, www.sensenfukoku.net, meaning
"declaration of war" in Japanese, Ishihara wrote: "The Japanese
have some odd sense of sin towards China, but we should get rid
of it and play the game with China on even ground."


"Ishihara has successfully created the image that he has strong
leadership by using his rhetorical talents as a novelist,"
Takahashi said.

