

Women who take multivitamin supplements during pregnancy have
significantly lower risk of giving birth to an underweight
infant, according to a study in the Thursday edition of the New
England Journal of Medicine.


Tests carried out in Tanzania on 8,468 pregnant women who were
not infected with the AIDS virus "demonstrated that multivitamin
supplements significantly reduced the risks of low birth weight
and a birth size that was small-for-gestational age, by 18
percent and 23 percent, respectively," the researchers said in a
statement published Wednesday.


Test participants enrolled at 12 to 27 weeks gestation. Half of
the group took multivitamins -- vitamins C, E and a variety of
vitamins B -- every day while the other half took a placebo until
six weeks after delivery.


Vitamin A and zinc were not added into the vitamin cocktail
because previous studies failed to show a beneficial effect of
those nutrients.


Women from both groups also received iron and folate
supplementation and malaria prophylaxis, which is standard
prenatal care in Tanzania.


Birth weight is influenced by factors that include maternal
health, nutritional status and micronutrient deficiencies,
according to the study's authors.


"Each year an estimated 20 million children are born with low
birth weight worldwide, more than 95 percent of them in
developing countries," the statement read.


Low birth weight -- 2,500 grams (5.5 pounds) or less -- "is
associated with increased risk of negative health outcomes,
including neonatal and infant mortality, poor growth and
cognitive development, and morbidity due to chronic diseases
later in life, such as diabetes and heart disease."


The study, the largest to date on the subject, was conducted by
researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) and
Muhimbili University College of Health Sciences in Dar es Salaam.


Wafaie Fawzi, professor of nutrition and epidemiology at HSPH and
the study's main investigator, said his team recommends "that
multivitamins be considered for all pregnant women in developing
countries, regardless of their HIV status."

