

Teeing off in the Masters at Augusta National is a nerve-jangling
experience at the best of times, but hitting off the first tee in
the first round in the company of Tiger Woods is doubly daunting.


England's Paul Casey, who has the dubious distinction at 1:52
p.m. of partnering the World No.1 on Thursday, insists he can
cope with the pressure.


"I don't have his mobile number or anything, but we're good
friends and I enjoy his company. I like playing with him," said
Casey, who enjoyed a breakthrough year in 2006 that has seen him
climb into the world top 20.


"It's a huge compliment to me. It clearly means I am doing
something right and I don't see it as a hindrance, not on a stage
like this."


The 29-year-old Casey has played with Woods before, notably in
the HSBC Champions event in Shanghai last November, but he feels
that the big crowds at Augusta, while enthusiastic, are very
well-behaved and marshalled.


And he says he will not make the same mistake as he made when he
first played with him in a competition at the Dubai Desert
Classic three years ago.


"On that occasion, I spent the first nine holes watching him
rather than worrying about what I was doing.


"Now there's 100 percent effort on what I am doing, but I try to
kind of feed off him. If you want to win, you might as well be up
close to him and try to sneak a shot or two.


"We've talked when we've played in the past, but I think in a
major it's slightly different. It's going to be good."


Joining Woods and Casey in the third-to-last grouping to go out
on Thursday will be up-and-coming Australian Aaron Baddeley.


Another young golfer likely to feel the Masters heat on Thursday
is Scotland's Richie Ramsay, who qualified by winning last year's
US Amateur title.


The 23-year-old from Aberdeen tees off with defending champion
Phil Mickelson in a group that also contains world No. 3 Adam
Scott of Australia.


Mickelson sang Ramsay's praises after the youngster beat him over
nine holes of a practice round they played together on Sunday
saying he was "a tremendous player".


Ramsay has said he will not be intimidated by playing alongside
the man many see as the main threat to Woods winning a fifth
green jacket as he bids to become the first amateur to make the
cut since Ryan Moore in 2005.


"I've just enjoyed coming here and getting that wow factor out of
the way and now it's Masters time. I'm ready to get on and start
the tournament," Ramsay told the BBC.


"I was very fortunate, I played nine holes with Phil on Sunday so
that was a great experience, and we got the introductions out of
the way.


"There'll be nerves there, I think that's probably to be
expected.


"But I'm fortunate I've played in big tournaments before and I
know what to expect, and hopefully I can focus on that first tee
shot and get it out of the way."


Ramsay will be one of five amateurs who will tee-off on Thursday.


Julian Guerrier is the lone French representative, thanks to his
win in last year's British Amateur Championships, and his reward
is a tee-time alongside three-time former winner Gary Player, who
at 71 is 50 years his senior.


The others are US Amateur runner-up John Kelly, US Public Links
champion Casey Watabu and US Mid-Amateur champion Dave Womack.


The 28-year-old Womack, a Georgia resident, has drawn two
veterans in former winner Mark O'Meara and Fred Funk, but he
insists he will be keeping his feet firmly on the ground.


"These guys, they play golf for a living," he said. "I sell
insurance for a living."

