

Fifteen British sailors freed by Iran after President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad dramatically pardoned them for violating the Islamic
republic's waters were to fly home Thursday, ending a two-week
ordeal.


The sailors and marines were expected to fly out of Tehran at
8:00 am (0430 GMT) after Ahmadinejad on Wednesday deflated a
growing diplomatic crisis by pardoning them as a "gift" to the
British people.


Friends and relatives of the captured men and one woman spent
much of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement by Ahmadinejad, later seen on state
television chatting with the former prisoners.


"Although Iran has the right to prosecute them by following the
model of the prophet the 15 people were pardoned and their
freedom given as a gift to the British people," Ahmadinejad said
at a Tehran press conference.


The announcement was welcomed by Britain and governments across
the world as well as joyous relatives of the captives, some of
whom had been paraded on state television "confessing" to
trespassing in Iranian waters.


Later on Wednesday, the group met with Britain's ambassador to
Tehran Geoffrey Adams, after having been denied consular access
for the duration of their detention, a foreign ministry spokesman
told AFP in London.


The spokesman added that the naval personnel had not been
transferred to the British embassy.


The eight sailors and seven marines were seized at gunpoint while
patrolling the northern Gulf between Iran and Iraq on March 23.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Wednesday hailed the release
and thanked "our friends and allies in the region who played
their part" amid unconfirmed reports that Syria and Qatar helped
bring about a peaceful resolution.


He said Britain, which took the issue to the UN Security Council
last week, had taken a "firm but calm" approach, "not negotiating
but not confronting either".


The families of the detainees erupted in joy and relief at the
news, which came after 13 days of a sometimes heated propaganda
war.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


Iranian state media said the 15 had "shouted for joy" on news of
their release.


"We are grateful for your forgiveness," one sailor was heard
telling Ahmadinejad, who in turn wished them good luck. The men
were wearing suits while the sole woman captive, Faye Turney, was
in trousers and a headscarf.


The BBC broadcast footage originally aired by Iranian television
following Ahmadinejad's announcement showing Turney telling an
interviewer that the group "apologise for our actions, but many
thanks for having it in your hearts to let us go free."


The standoff had further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's controversial nuclear programme, and had
sent jitters through world oil and financial markets.


Oil prices had surged to near seven month highs on fears Iran
could disrupt supplies and fell on news of the release.


However, Iran's hardline president -- who saved his dramatic
announcement until nearly the end of the press conference --
still lashed out at Britain over its handling of the crisis and
decorated a Revolutionary Guards commander who had seized the
Britons.


"The British government, in a letter, has vowed not to repeat
such incidents. But this release is not linked to this letter. It
is due to Islamic goodwill," he said.


His announcement came after Iran had applauded a "change of tone"
from Britain following talks between top security official Ali
Larijani and Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Sir Nigel
Sheinwald on Tuesday.


Syria -- Iran's top ally in the region -- had announced it was
mediating in the crisis after a call from Sheinwald.


Iran had insisted the key to resolving the crisis was an
admission from Britain that the sailors and marines violated its
territorial waters.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters in line with a UN mandate,
but Iran says the sailors' Global Positioning System (GPS)
devices show they intruded on Iranian waters.


US President George W. Bush welcomed the release of the Britons
but Washington denied any link to the sudden granting of consular
access to five Iranian officials held in Iraq for allegedly
stoking unrest.


The crisis had come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over its nuclear drive and the United Nations imposing
tough new sanctions.

