

Fidel Castro on Wednesday warned that US energy policies could
spark a global "holocaust," in his second newspaper column in a
week, a hint the convalescing Cuban leader is back to his feisty
self.


Castro said making fuel from grain would divert food from the
world's poor in order to satisfy the demands of drivers in
wealthy countries.


"The worst may yet be to come: a new war to ensure gas and oil
supplies, which could consume the entire human race in a total
holocaust," Castro said in the Cuban Communist Party paper,
Granma.


The article, titled "The Globalization of Genocide," condemned US
President George W. Bush for pushing the global production of
grain-based alternative fuels.


It continued the theme of a March 29 piece in which Castro said
Bush's promotion of ethanol fuel was condemning "more than three
billion people" to premature starvation.


The writings are another sign that the iconic 80-year-old Cuban
leader could be on the road to recovery after eight months out of
the public eye.


In July, Castro handed over power to his brother Raul, the
country's defense minister, while recovering from a
gastrointestinal operation.


In the Granma article on Wednesday, Castro took note of recent
discussions Bush held with Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, in which the subject of promoting biofuels from grain
crops arose.


"This colossal waste of cereals for producing fuel ... will save
the rich countries less than 15 percent of the annual fuel
consumption of their voracious automobiles," Castro wrote.


"Who will supply the more than 500 million tonnes of corn and
other cereals that the United States, Europe and the rich
countries need to produce all the ethanol that the big US
companies demand?


"Where will the poor countries of the Third World obtain the
minimal resources to survive?" Castro asked.


"Bush in Camp David declared his intention to apply this formula
around the world, which means nothing else but the globalization
of genocide," he said.


"It is not my intention to harm Brazil, nor interfere in the
domestic affairs of this great country" without mentioning
specifically US-Brazilian cooperation on ethanol production, in
which Brazil is a global leader.


US ethanol is made mostly from corn, the price of which is at its
highest in decades.


If it appears Cuba opposes ethanol production, Havana does not:
it has been increasing its own production, from sugar cane waste,
as in Brazil. Cuba and Venezuela are planning to boost
cooperation on large-scale biofuels production -- but from
sugarcane waste, to spare food crops.


The two articles in recent days come after more frequent comments
by Cuban officials and Castro's friends that he is recovering
from his ailments, the nature of which has never been disclosed
in detail. Cuba considers Castro's health a national security
issue.


Several officials have said over the past month that they
expected him to return to work soon, and even stand for re-
election to the presidency in early 2008.


The Cuban leader, who has led the Caribbean nation of 11 million
for nearly five decades, wrote in Granma that he had been
spending his recuperation period thinking about global problems
like energy, the environment and the survival of mankind.

