

Visions of corpses and the scent of blood haunt Norway each year
at Easter, when people in this tranquil country traditionally
curl up with a thrilling crime novel at their cabin retreats.


In what is undeniably an odd tradition -- and a far cry from the
cheerful image of the Easter bunny hopping across fields to
deliver chocolate eggs -- the Easter holiday in Norway is a time
for crime.


Bookstore displays are full of detective novels, television and
radio stations run crime serials and newspapers publish special
literary supplements, all catering to Norwegians' thirst for
thrills.


Even the backs of milk cartons offer mysteries that need solving.


"Along with chocolate bars and oranges, the crime novel has its
special place in Norwegians' backpacks as they head off for their
Easter holiday," said journalist Nils Nordberg, a specialist on
the subject.


In order to be properly devoured, the Easter crime novel should
be read in the glow of a cozy fireplace at a secluded cabin that
one can only get to by donning a pair of skis.


"The setting is ideal. You're in the mountains, far from
everything. Outside, it's snowing and windy. What could be better
than a few chills running down your spine," said Nordberg.


Getting goose bumps is a natural part of Easter, said Birgitte
Lund, a 35-year- old advertising executive.


"When I was nine and we went to our family chalet I wasn't
allowed to watch television, except for the half-hour of
children's programming and the special crime serials shown on
public service," she said.


But why does Norway, where bloodbaths, it must be said, are rare,
choose Easter to delve into crime solving?


According to one widely accepted theory, the tradition began in
1923 as the result of a marketing coup.


Breaking with a longstanding tradition under which new novels
were only released in the autumn, the Gyldendal publishing house
chose to launch a book by two young authors, entitled "The Train
To Bergen Was Robbed Last Night" and set at Easter, during the
holiday period.


Advertisements that resembled news items were published on the
front pages of several newspapers, shocking readers who failed to
grasp that it was a publicity stunt.


The initiative spread like wildfire among other publishing
houses, and the crime novel became one of the few forms of
entertainment available during the Easter break.


"Cafes, restaurants, cinemas ... at the time, everything was
closed at Easter, which was supposed to be a time of
introspection and repentance. There was no radio, and of course
no television either. But everyone could read," said Nordberg.


And so the Easter crime novel was born. And with it came a bevy
of renowned crime authors, including Jo Nesboe, Karin Fossum,
Anne Holt and Jon Michelet.


According to Jan Mehlum, a sociologist who has also written seven
thrillers, "the genre has acquired so much respect that everyone,
even intellectuals, can say that they read crime novels without
blushing."


Over time, the setting has changed: the cabin retreats have gone
from spartan to more comfortable, the isolated cabins are not so
secluded anymore as little villages pop up along the
mountainsides, and Norwegians increasingly choose sunny holiday
destinations over wintry cabins.


But the tradition lives on.


"The crime novel is just part of the holidays," said Anniken
Dingsoer, 50, after stocking up on good thrillers at an Oslo
bookstore.


"When I was younger, my father read Jean Valjean to us. Since
then, I've spent my entire life reading crime novels," said
Dingsoer, a fan of PD James, Robert Wilson and Minette Walters.


She has only one regret: that her children prefer Harry Potter
over Hercule Poirot.

