

Old-fashioned diplomacy won plaudits from the British press after
Iran announced it would be releasing 15 sailors after detaining
them for two weeks, but papers questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said that the eight Royal
Navy sailors and seven marines would fly home Thursday, after
Tehran detained them on March 23, accusing the group of violating
its territorial waters.


Though Britain has insisted that the naval personnel were in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, the group have regularly been
paraded on television, shown apparently apologising for their
actions.


The two differing outlooks on the impasse were summed up by The
Independent on its front page, featuring Ahmadinejad next to the
word "Victory" on the top half.


Turning the paper upside-down, however, showed British Prime
Minister Tony Blair next to the word "Rejoice" on the bottom
half.


"We may never know what bargain, if any, was struck to obtain
their freedom," the paper's editorial read.


But, it noted, the release of the 15 "shows that good old-
fashioned diplomacy, for all the scorn it sometimes attracts,
still has its uses."


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war."


The Guardian echoed those sentiments, claiming in its editorial
that "the real lesson to draw from yesterday's (Wednesday)
theatre is that quiet diplomacy does work and that it can work in
the future."


"There is no substitute for direct negotiation, especially with a
revolutionary Islamic regime in Iran, for whom the popularly held
grievance about past American and British interference in the
Gulf is as important as the issue in hand."


According to The Times, Blair's government acted correctly for
the most part, and exerted the right kind of diplomatic pressure.


"Mr Blair was right to make clear the consequences," the paper's
editorial read.


"He was also right to push for a strong statement of condemnation
by the UN Security Council and to invoke the support of Britain's
European partners."


Despite the difficulties in determining how much pressure to put
on Iran, The Times estimated, "Britain probably got it right."


Similarly, the Financial Times said in its editorial that the
"best lesson to take away from this affair was how rapidly it was
resolved once empowered officials on both sides talked directly."


"The US and its allies should confront Iran's nuclear and
regional ambitions the same way."


For some of the press, however, the relief of seeing the British
sailors return home was juxtaposed with the humiliation the
country suffered by seeing its naval personnel paraded on
television to apologise, and by the mere fact that they were
seized at all.


"Relief at the freeing of the British sailors and marines in Iran
is tempered with dismay at the humiliation to which they and the
country they serve have been subjected," The Daily Telegraph's
editorial read.


"The satisfaction of a diplomatic challenge eventually handled
with skill is soured by the string of psychological humiliations
that Britain has suffered."


For the Daily Mail, the jubilation was tempered instead by
suspicion over whether Britain had in fact reached a compromise
with Iran and, if it had, what it had agreed to.


"In our euphoria ... we shouldn't overlook the deeply awkward
questions raised by this sorry affair," the paper's editorial
said.


"Has some compromising deal been done behind the scenes?"


For The Sun, though, that was clearly a lesser priority, topped
by the relief that 15 British naval personnel would soon be back
in Britain, bringing to an end the stand-off.


"Tony Blair insists there have been 'no negotiations'."


"But who will be surprised if half a dozen Iranian insurgents are
quietly set free in a few months time?"


"Those are questions for later. Today, let's be joyful that our
people are coming home at last."

