

Global stock markets struggled Friday to recover from the latest
equities sell- off as anxious investors assessed the outlook for
the US economy, dealers said.


Analysts said that trading would remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's interest rate calls from the US Federal Reserve and the
Bank of Japan.


"Today investors will focus their attention on the US consumer
price inflation data to indicate future direction and for hints
on the state of the US economy," said analysts at the Sucden
brokerage in London.


A rout on global equity markets, sparked by fears of a meltdown
in the US housing market, was checked Thursday with solid share
price gains in the United States, Europe and Asia.


However, markets in Frankfurt, London and Paris fell back on
Friday in cautious late morning trade, after Tokyo finished in
the red amid a mixed performance across Asia.


Overnight Thursday, New York made modest gains as participants
appeared to put concerns about failures in the risky "sub-prime"
mortgage sector on the back burner for now.


Analysts said that it was no surprise markets were taking a
breather after the recent large swings, particularly ahead of the
weekend.


In subdued European trade, London's FTSE 100 index of leading
shares slipped 0.51 percent to 6,101.90 points.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 fell 0.51 percent to 6,551.66 points and in
Paris the CAC 40 shed 0.34 percent to 5,371.54.


Other markets drifted lower, with Zurich down 0.11 percent, Milan
falling 0.65 percent and Amsterdam losing 0.17 percent.


The latest remarks from Alan Greenspan caused some jitters after
the former Federal Reserve chief told a conference that US home
loan problems could spill over into the wider economy -- but that
there was no evidence of it yet.


The dollar plumbed a three-month low against the euro in the wake
of Greenspan's cautious comments, which jangled investors' nerves
over the US economy.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," added Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
in Tokyo, where the Nikkei-225 index ended down 0.69 percent on
Friday.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight also led some in the market
to speculate that a US interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon." American borrowing costs currently stand at 5.25
percent.


China's shares prices closed down 0.72 percent on Friday as the
latest batch of strong data kept alive worries the authorities
there may announce further measures to tighten credit and cool
the economy, dealers said.


Elsewhere, Sydney ended 0.29 percent lower and Singapore was down
0.86 percent, while Hong Kong, Seoul and Kuala Lumpur were almost
flat.


But Taipei added 0.31 percent, Jakarta was up 0.40 percent and
Manila put on 0.61 percent.


"The volatility of the past week provides a reminder that the
share market correction is not necessarily over and that the US
economy is the real issue, not the Chinese share market," said
AMP Capital Investor strategist Shane Oliver in Sydney.


Oil prices edged up on Friday as traders weighed up the impact of
a widely- forecast decision by the OPEC crude producers' cartel
to keep its production levels steady.

