

Brazil, India, the European Union and the United States need to
put concrete offers on the table in WTO trade talks if
negotiations are to succeed by June, EU trade chief Peter
Mandelson said Friday.


"We need to see those numbers" on reductions in farm support and
agriculture and industrial tariffs, the EU trade commissioner
said at the European Business Summit in Brussels.


"It is the responsibility of the G4 to put the numbers on the
table," he said, referring to the four big players in the current
round of World Trade Organisation negotiations.


Mandelson warned that "the clock is ticking" for progress to be
made in the talks with the US administration's powers to
negotiate trade deals set to expire at the end of June.


WTO negotiators are struggling to revive the faltering round of
talks on breaking down barriers to trade in agriculture, services
and industrial goods which were launched in the Qatari capital
Doha in 2001.


An agreement between the world's two biggest trading powers, the
US and EU, and the two leading developing or emerging nations
Brazil and India, is widely regarded as crucial to the hopes of
brokering a compromise among the WTO's 150 members this year.


On the EU's offers on agriculture, Mandelson told AFP later that
"with the flexibilities we have been offering, I believe we can
meet all reasonable demands."


"We are getting close to an agreement on market access and also,
to a lesser extent, on domestic subsidies," he said in reference
to the most sensitive aspects of the talks on agriculture.


The key to an agreement on agriculture depends on the level of
tariff reductions the EU is ready to grant and whether the United
States will commit to strict ceilings on domestic aid to its
farmers.


"A lot of intensive, detailed work remains to be done," said the
assistant US trade representative for Europe and the Middle East,
Shaun Donnelly.


"It is not going to be easy for any of us. We should not kid
ourselves," he added.


Donnelly said that while the EU and the US had "a special role to
play" in the negotiations, big developing countries "have a
leadership role to play."


The prospect that the US administration could see its authority
to negotiate trade deals curbed is adding a sense of urgency to
the long-floundering talks, although Donnelly was "optimistic"
that the powers could be renewed.


US Trade Representative "Susan Schwab is working with the new
leaders of the Congress and I am optimistic that we will get an
extension," he said.

