

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad refused again on Friday to
stop sensitive nuclear work and prepared to confront the UN
Security Council face to face over a proposal for wider sanctions
against Iran.


"The Iranian nation possesses the nuclear fuel cycle and will not
go back on that," he told a rally in central Yazd province, cited
by the semi-official Fars news agency.


"Don't think you can block Iranian nation's pathway with these
sittings and meetings," Ahmadinejad told world powers, which fear
Iran's nuclear programme could be diverted towards weapons
development.


On Thursday, six major world powers agreed on a package of new UN
sanctions against Iran for its repeated refusal to suspend
uranium enrichment -- a process that can be used to make nuclear
fuel as well as atomic weapons.


Ambassadors from the six countries reached a deal on a new
sanctions resolution that was submitted to the Security Council's
10 non-permanent members ahead of a vote expected next week.


News of the agreement set the stage for a dramatic confrontation
with Ahmadinejad, who has formally asked to attend the Council
meeting, although he slammed the world body as illegitimate on
Thursday.


As a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Iran says
it has a right to uranium enrichment, insisting its nuclear
programme is aimed at peaceful energy ends.


Under the provisions of the UN Charter a country that is not a
member of the council is entitled to attend council deliberations
that directly concerns it and to speak, but without the right to
vote.


"The Iranian nation is moving speedily on the path to progress
and the enemies' pressures and threats do not affect the nation's
will," state new agency IRNA quoted the fiery president as
saying.


Ahmadinjad's defiant tone was echoed by Tehran's Friday prayer
speaker Ayatollah Mohammad Emami Kashani, who said "our country
will not retreat from its slogan that 'nuclear energy is our
undeniable right.'


"Even if you issue ten resolutions, it will not trouble the
country," he told the faithful in a sermon carried live on state
radio.


The compromise text appeared after 10 days of negotiations by the
Council's five veto-wielding permanent members -- Britain, China,
France, Russia and the United States -- plus Germany.


The agreement virtually ensures that measures to broaden existing
sanctions and impose some new ones will be approved by the
15-member Council when the draft is put to a vote.


"It's a good, balanced, incremental step," acting US ambassador
Alejandro Wolff said. In Washington, the White House said US
President George W. Bush hoped for a vote soon.


The draft builds on sanctions imposed by the Security Council in
December after Tehran ignored repeated UN demands to freeze
uranium enrichment.


Those measures included a ban on the sale of nuclear and
ballistic missile- related materials to the Islamic republic and
a freeze on financial assets of Iranians involved in illicit
atomic and ballistic missile work.


The new resolution would bar Iran from exporting arms and
restrict the sale or transfer to Tehran of equipment including
battle tanks, combat aircraft, attack helicopters and missiles.


It calls for a voluntary travel ban on additional officials and
companies involved in Iran's "proliferation sensitive" nuclear
and ballistic missile programmes.


It also urges voluntary restrictions on "new commitments for
grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to Iran" as
well as extending an assets freeze to additional entities and
individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and missile programs.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply with repeated UN
demands or face "further appropriate measures" (economic
sanctions but no military action) under Article 41 of the UN
Charter.


The United States, which accuses Iran of seeking to secretly
develop atomic weapons, says it wants a diplomatic solution to
the standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option to
curb Iran's nuclear drive.


French Defence Minister Michele Alliot-Marie on Friday called for
diplomacy to resolve the Iranian nuclear crisis, warning that
military action risked inflaming the Islamic world.


"This crisis should be resolved through diplomatic pressure," she
said in Tokyo. "One cannot completely rule out military
intervention, but that represents a real risk."


Iranian leaders have repeatedly said the country's armed forces
are ready for any eventuality in the nuclear stand-off.


"If our bullying enemy wants to do something insane, it will
surely be taken by surprise," army chief Major General Ataollah
Salehi said on Friday.

