

Britain's Labour Party is to meet next week to finalise plans for
the internal election to replace Tony Blair and a new leader
could be in place by the end of June, the BBC reported on Friday.


A Labour Party spokesman told AFP the ruling National Executive
Commitee (NEC) is to meet on Tuesday but refused to confirm the
BBC report they will be agreeing procedures for the leadership
and deputy leadership contests.


Blair is widely expected to step down in either June or July
after a decade in power, with Chancellor Gordon Brown the
frontrunner to succeed him in 10 Downing Street.


The party spokesman refused to comment on the BBC's report that
Brown would still have to prove his worth to Labour members, even
if he is the only candidate.


Sections of the Labour Party are opposed to a straight
"coronation" of Brown, without him first setting out his
leadership agenda to parliamentary colleagues, the party's union
backers and its grassroots membership.


Brown himself indicated in an interview published in the
Financial Times on Friday that he would outline his government
programme during any leadership campaign.


"The time for setting out one's stall for the future will be when
actually there is a leadership election," he said.


As head of the country's biggest party in parliament, Brown would
become prime minister without a general election having to be
called.


Two other Labour members of parliament, left-wingers John
McDonnell and Michael Meacher, have said they want to stand
against Brown but each need the backing of at least 44 Labour MPs
before their names can be put on the ballot.


Britain's domestic Press Association news agency said the NEC
will consider staging an "affirmative" ballot in the event of
only one candidate securing enough nominations for the leadership
race.


That would allow party members, MPs and unions to support or
oppose the candidate's election as leader and indicate the
candidate's level of backing.


The BBC said the NEC has agreed to a seven-week campaign for the
leadership and deputy leadership posts and that the results would
be announced at a special conference.


It claimed that the party's new leaders -- and therefore
Britain's new prime minister and deputy prime minister -- could
be announced by June 22 if Blair announces his resignation on May
4, as many political observers predict.


May 4 is the day after elections are held for English and
Scottish municipal council and the devolved Scottish Parliament
and Welsh Assembly.


A seven-week leadership and deputy leadership campaign would then
ensue and end on June 22 -- the final day of the European Union
summit in Brussels which Blair said he expected to attend.

