

A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday hailed US moves to resolve
financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark event",
raising hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


North Korea has yet to give an official response to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars of North Korean funds
frozen in a Macau bank.


However a column in the Japan-based Chosun Sinbo gave the first
hint that North Korea may accept the US deal and proceed with a
six-nation accord signed last month that would see it begin
dismantling its nuclear programme.


"In a rare development, the United States has delivered, even if
for form's sake, its promise made at six-party talks," the
newspaper said.


"This is no less than a landmark event because the most
overbearing and vicious regime in US history did so, kneeling
down before a small country in the east which cannot match it in
terms of national power."


In its ruling, the US Treasury barred US banks from dealing with
Banco Delta Asia, the Macau-based institution it said had
laundered money for reclusive North Korea.


But the move allowed Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the cash after the bank was left in receivership.


The chief US envoy on North Korea, Christopher Hill, insisted
earlier Friday in Beijing that the United States had effectively
ended the dispute with its sanctions-busting strategy.


"I think they (the North Koreans) want assurances that the
financial issue is resolved," Hill told reporters.


"Frankly I think it has been resolved. We have already resolved
it pursuant to our obligations."


Hill, who had breakfast with Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the
UN nuclear watchdog, said on Friday evening he remained happy
with proceedings, without speaking directly about the report in
the pro-Pyongyang newspaper.


"We are in a pretty good situation after 30 days," he said, in
reference to the period since the six-nation disarmament accord
was signed.


The sanctions issue was one of the major hurdles to the February
13 accord under which Pyongyang promised to begin shutting down
its nuclear programme within two months in exchange for energy
aid and diplomatic concessions.


A follow-up round of disarmament negotiations, which group the
two Koreas, China, the United States, Russia and Japan, begins
here Monday.


Preparatory working groups have already started, including one on
Friday aimed at setting up a permanent dispute resolution and
security mechanism for Northeast Asia.


ElBaradei, for his part, emerged Wednesday from a rare visit to
Pyongyang saying North Korea had told him it was committed to
disarmament as long as the financial sanctions issue was
resolved.


It was his first trip to the North since International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors were thrown out of the country in
December 2002.


North Korea conducted its first atomic test in October last year
but under global pressure signed the deal last month.


Under the accord, North Korea has 60 days to close down its main
Yongbyon nuclear facility in exchange for 50,000 tonnes of heavy
fuel and diplomatic concessions.


South Korea would provide the initial 50,000 tonnes while the
United States would share the cost of the first shipments to the
North, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported late Thursday.


The North would eventually receive the equivalent of one million
tonnes of fuel aid if it completely disbanded its nuclear weapons
programme.

