

Pakistan may have to think twice about taking Ireland lightly
when the two sides meet in their World Cup Group D match on
Saturday at Sabina Park.


After losing the World Cup opener to hosts West Indies on
Tuesday, Pakistan need to win this match and their final contest
against Zimbabwe on Wednesday to guarantee a place in the Super
Eights.


They may have considered the Irish pushovers, but the ICC
Associate side showed great fighting qualities to tie their
opening match with Zimbabwe on Thursday.


"Our game against Ireland will be a tough one as they have proved
that they are one of the best equipped of the Associate sides and
are very keen and well- organised," said Pakistan coach Bob
Woolmer who has refused to panic over the opening loss to West
Indies.


"The opening match of the World Cup was the type of game we can
expect from all the sides here.


"It was a tough game. In the end, West Indies deserved to win. I
had wondered, before the game, if the pressure of the occasion
might get to them. I had also wondered if the occasion would spur
them on to greater deeds. The wondering is now over."


Woolmer has admitted that Pakistan's batting was disappointing
against the West Indies.


"But it's too early to talk about being in tight corners," he
said.


"Let's make sure we remain positive for the rest of the
tournament."


Pakistan are considering opening the batting with Kamran Akmal
allowing Mohammad Hafeez to drop down the order, and Mohammad
Sami may also take the place of Rana Naved-ul-Hasan in the
starting eleven.


Saturday is St. Patrick's Day, the perfect platform for Trent
Johnston and his side cause an upset.


Johnston believes his side can compete and even upset Pakistan if
they can improve on their performance against Zimbabwe.


"If we bowl well up front against Pakistan, and if we bat well,
we could be competitive," he said.


"We will get out there and give it everything that we've got. If
we're going to beat Pakistan we'll have to play out of our skins,
and give it 120 per cent.


"We're going to get out there and fight hard. Who knows what is
possible? We beat the West Indies a few years ago, so anything is
possible in sports.


"We have to play for 100 overs if we're going to beat Pakistan
and do the same against West Indies. We will have to bring our
A-game to all three disciplines."


The last time Pakistan played an ICC Associate side in a World
Cup match, they beat Namibia by 171 runs, and Wasim Akram
collected five wickets for 28 runs.


In 1987, Pakistan batsman Manzoor Elahi hit 109 off 65 balls,
including 10 sixes, during a limited-overs (60 overs) tour match
against Ireland in Dublin. jg/dj07

