

Pakistani security forces rounded up dozens of lawyers and
Islamists ahead of protests Friday over President Pervez
Musharraf's internationally condemned sacking of the country's
top judge.


Riot police threw a ring of steel around Islamabad, where Chief
Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry was due to attend a second
hearing into misconduct charges brought by military ruler
Musharraf.


Around 30 people including several hardline Muslim MPs were
seized in overnight raids in the capital, while police in the
eastern city of Lahore detained more than 50 people, officials
said.


Those held in Lahore included the president of the high court bar
association, who was later freed, and a senior leader of the
Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) or United Action Front, an alliance
of Islamic parties.


"We will struggle against the dictator's attempts to prevent us
from agitating against the unconstitutional action against the
chief justice," said the detained Islamist leader, Liaqat Baluch.


An AFP reporter saw paramilitary troops deployed outside the
Supreme Court in Islamabad, where Chaudhry was due to appear
later in the day.


Meanwhile around 1,000 lawyers chanting "Go Musharraf, go"
gathered near the high court in Lahore, where clashes between
attorneys and riot police on Monday left more than 40 people
injured.


Islamabad police banned gatherings of more than five people and
had 4,000 police on duty "to maintain law and order," a senior
interior ministry official told AFP.


Security forces used concrete barricades and barbed wire to seal
off the area containing parliament and the supreme court. Police
set up roadblocks at all entry points to the city and checked
every passing vehicle.


Opposition leaders vowed to defy the ban and to hold a protest
led by Islamic alliance president Qazi Hussain Ahmed.


"We will carry the holy book in our hands and assemble outside
the Supreme Court building to offer Friday prayers and register
our protest over action against the justice," MMA spokesman
Shahid Shamsi said.


The Pakistan Muslim League party of exiled former prime minister
Nawaz Sharif, whom Musharraf ousted in a coup in 1999, and the
party of former cricket hero- turned-politician Imran Khan have
said they will join the protest.


Urging the opposition not to politicise the issue, Information
Minister Mohammad Ali Durrani told AFP the government would "not
allow anyone to flout the law and will protect the life and
property of citizens."


The opposition says Musharraf aimed to intimidate the judiciary
before they hear key issues -- including his planned re-election
by the present parliament and his dual position as president and
army chief -- later this year.


Musharraf's close ally the United States said the judicial
dispute was a "matter of deep concern".


"We believe that the resolution of this matter should take place
in a way that is completely transparent and strictly in
accordance with Pakistan's laws," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said.


A group of 70 British lawyers, including the wife of Prime
Minister Tony Blair, said the reports of the "humiliating
treatment of the chief justice of Pakistan is causing great
international unease."


Musharraf spoke about the issue for the first time on Thursday,
telling a public meeting that he would accept whatever decision
emerges from the ongoing judicial inquiry and that he would
address the nation on the outcome.


Chaudhry has denied the charges against him and questioned the
constitutionality of the judicial council, as well as saying he
was roughed-up by police after refusing an official car on the
way to an earlier hearing.


Pakistani media said they were under pressure not to portray
Chaudhry as a "hero". A private television channel said it had
been barred from airing a popular news programme which featured
discussions of the crisis.

