

Italian clothing company Benetton announced on Friday that it had
appointed a director from US record label Warner Music as its new
chief executive.


Caccia Dominioni, 52, is to take over on June 1 to replace
Silvano Cassano, who resigned late last year after a disagreement
with the Benetton family on the group's development strategy.


Caccia Dominioni is currently vice chairman and chief operating
officer of Warner Music International, part of Warner Music
Group, the company said.


Benetton cited the new CEO's experience in the fast-moving
entertainment sector as well as his ability to motivate a
management team as particularly important for his selection to
the post.


Caccia Dominioni has worked for Warner Music International for 10
years, Benetton said.


He has "built up considerable international experience in a
sector, entertainment, that is in constant, complex change," the
company said.


Caccia Dominioni was Warner Music International's president for
southern Europe, then for Europe, before taking on his current
job.


He was involved in the company's development activities in 40
countries including several developing countries. Earlier he
worked for Time Warner and the Italian subsidiary of Philips.


When Cassano left, Benetton decided that the priority for the
next CEO would be development overseas, in particular in Asia and
other regions with rapidly growing populations.


After struggling in 2003 and 2004 in the face of rivals Zara and
H & M, Benetton has returned to growth and began extending
its network, notably in Mediterranean rim countries and South
Korea.


It has also increased the frequency of changing its collections.


Group president Luciano Benetton announced in 2006 that he would
hand over to his son Alessandro this year.


Benetton's turnover was 1.913 billion euros (2.55 billion
dollars) in 2006, an increase of 8.4 percent, with a net profit
of around 125 million euros. The group was expected to publish
final figures later Friday.

