

A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday hailed US moves to resolve
financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark event"
which clears the way for progress in dismantling its nuclear
weapons.


The US Treasury announced that it had arranged for the release of
some 25 million dollars in North Korean funds frozen in a Macau
bank since Washington imposed financial sanctions on North Korea
in 2005.


"In a rare development, the United States has delivered, even if
for form's sake, its promise made at six-party talks," the Japan-
based Chosun Sinbo said in a column published on its website.


"This is no less than a landmark event because the most
overbearing and vicious regime in US history did so, kneeling
down before a small country in the east which cannot match it in
terms of national power," it said.


Release of the money was one of Pyongyang's key demands and
allows progress in a February 13 six-nation accord under which
North Korea promised to begin shutting down its nuclear programme
within two months in exchange for energy aid and diplomatic
concessions.


"This (the promise to release the North Korean cash within 30
days from the February accord) can be called a very positive sign
in that the US showed its will to carry out the February 13
agreement under the principle of action for action," the paper
said.


The move by the US Treasury Department came within a 30-day
deadline stemming from a February 13 six-nation accord.


In a ruling late Wednesday, the US Treasury barred US banks from
dealing with Banco Delta Asia, the Macau-based institution it
said had laundered money for reclusive North Korea.


But crucially, the move allows Macau authorities to decide what
to do with the cash after the bank was left in receivership.


"By putting the onus of unlocking the frozen accounts on the BDA,
the United States saved its own face while punishing the bank
with strong sanctions by banning all transactions with it," the
paper said.


"This is a typical US," it added.

