

NATO troops opened fire on a police patrol in southern
Afghanistan, apparently mistaking them for hostile forces, and
killed five policemen, a senior police official said Friday.


Another six policemen were missing after the shooting late
Thursday in the volatile Gereshk area of the southern province of
Helmand, provincial deputy police chief General Isau Khan told
AFP.


They had been travelling in a vehicle that was not a conventional
police type, he said.


Khan was unable to say what had prompted the soldiers to open
fire, adding that "the incident is being investigated."


The media office of NATO's International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) could not confirm the incident.


However, a military official in southern Afghanistan said on
condition of anonymity that there had been an incident between
NATO forces and the police overnight which was believed to have
caused police casualties.


The circumstances of the incident were unclear, the official
added.


There have been a rash of incidents this year in which troops
from ISAF or the separate US-led coalition have shot and killed
civilians fearing they were attackers, especially suicide
bombers.


On Wednesday, an Afghan truck driver was killed Wednesday in the
southern province of Kandahar, which adjoins Helmand, after NATO
troops opened fire on his vehicle when he ignored warnings to
move away from their convoy.


In one of the most serious incidents, eight civilians were killed
in the eastern province of Nangarhar on March 4 following an
ambush on a US convoy that prompted troops to open fire.


The coalition says the ambush involved a suicide car bombing and
small arms attack to which the troops returned fire.


It says the civilians were killed during the series of events,
but Afghan witnesses and officials have said they all died under
the soldiers' fire. An investigation is under way.


On the same day, nine Afghans were killed when US-led coalition
warplanes bombed a compound in the province of Kapisa, near
Kabul, that insurgents were seen to enter.


Five women and three children were among the dead in the bombing,
which was in response to a rocket attack on a base.

