

China is always willing to talk to the Dalai Lama, Premier Wen
Jiabao said Friday, but he indicated a reconciliation remained
distant due to lingering distrust of the exiled Tibetan spiritual
leader.


"As long as the Dalai Lama acknowledges that Tibet is an
inalienable part of Chinese territory... and gives up his efforts
to split the country, the door is always open," Wen told a press
conference.


The Dalai Lama has in fact in recent years backed off a push for
Tibetan independence, now an "autonomous region" of China,
acknowledging instead that the Himalayan region is a part of
China that should enjoy "genuine autonomy".


But Wen indicated deep-seated wariness of the Tibetan leader.


"Where the Dalai Lama is concerned, we have to observe what he
says but also what he does," Wen said during his traditional
press briefing at the close of the annual session of the National
People's Congress, China's parliament.


Wen questioned whether the Dalai Lama was really committed to
national unity, in remarks similar to regular official
descriptions of the spiritual leader as a "splittist."


Wen had been asked whether China would grant the Dalai Lama's
reported wish to visit China, and perhaps for his trip to
coincide with next year's Beijing Olympic Games.


The spiritual leader and other Tibetan exiles claim that
oppression by Beijing and an influx of Chinese settlers is
extinguishing the mountainous  region's traditional Buddhist
culture.


Talks launched in 2002 between China and the Dalai Lama's
representatives have broken down recently amid the autonomy push
by the Buddhist leader, who has waged a non-violent campaign for
greater rights for Tibet's six million people since he fled into
exile in 1959.


China's army moved in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951, two years
after the current Communist government took control of the
country.


Members of the US Congress said this week they were drafting a
letter to Chinese President Hu Jintao asking him to invite the
Dalai Lama to Beijing for a dialogue ahead of the Olympics.

