

Philippine police Friday arrested a fugitive legislator and ex-
communist rebel leader wanted for allegedly ordering the murder
of 15 party cadres during a purge in the 1980s.


Satur Ocampo, of the left-leaning Bayan Muna (Nation First)
political party, was arrested after he resurfaced to petition the
Supreme Court to have the warrants overturned.


Some 100 of his supporters carrying placards saying "No to
political harassment" and "Justice for Satur" scuffled with riot
police who quickly deployed around the court compound. Ocampo was
later arrested and taken away in a police convoy.


Ocampo went into hiding last week after police named him,
Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) founder Jose Maria Sison
and Luis Jalandoni as among dozens of communist rebel leaders
wanted for murder. Jalandoni is head of the CPP's political wing.


They were indicted on 15 counts of murder allegedly committed
during a purge of suspected "spies and counter-revolutionaries"
within the ranks of the CPP and its armed wing the New People's
Army (NPA) between 1985 and 1991.


Sison and Jalandoni are in self-imposed exile in the Netherlands.


The remains of the 15 murder victims were among 67 bodies exhumed
by forensic investigators from the NPA "killing fields" on the
central island of Leyte on August 26, 2006.


The three however have denied any involvement.


Ocampo accused the government of "political harassment" over the
allegations. He was also among six leftist legislators implicated
in a failed coup against President Gloria Arryo in February last
year.


"I have said it before, I will not run away from this case. I
will show them that they are lying," Ocampo told AFP as he filed
his petition.


"I am asking the Supreme Court to intervene and to overturn the
warrants of arrest and stop the criminal proceedings against me,"
he said.


"My counter-charge is that this is political harassment from the
security establishment."


He said there appeared to be a clear attempt from the government
to clamp down on Bayan Muna, which the military had earlier
branded a front for the NPA.


The CPP and the 7,000-member NPA have been waging a nearly four-
decade Maoist insurgency to seize power in the Philippines.


Arroyo has said she intended to break the CPP before she steps
down from office in 2010.

