

Asian stocks were narrowly mixed on Friday, struggling to extend
a recovery from the latest global sell-off as investors remained
wary about the outlook for the US economy, dealers said.


Overnight Thursday, Wall Street eked out modest gains as
participants appeared to put concerns about failures in the risky
"sub-prime" mortgage sector on the back burner for now.


Analysts said that it was no surprise markets were taking a
breather after the recent large swings, particularly ahead of the
weekend, with European stock markets falling slightly in cautious
opening trade on Friday.


The latest remarks from Alan Greenspan caused some jitters after
the former Federal Reserve chief told a conference that US home
loan problems could spill over into the wider economy -- but that
there was no evidence of it yet.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
in Tokyo, where the Nikkei-225 index ended down 0.69 percent.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight also led some in the market
to speculate that a US interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon."


US producer prices jumped by 1.3 percent in February, twice the
amount the market was forecasting.


Dealers said investors will likely remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


China's shares prices closed down 0.72 percent as the latest
batch of strong data kept alive worries the authorities there may
announce further measures to tighten credit and cool the economy,
dealers said.


Fixed-asset investment in China rose 23.4 percent in the two
months to February year-on-year, official figures showed, a day
after industrial output figures revealed growth rebounding to
18.5 percent in the same period.


"The prospects of more austerity measures being taken by Beijing
in the short term have made many investors cautious," said Kitty
Chan, director at Celestial Asia Securities Holdings in Hong
Kong.


Elsewhere, Sydney ended 0.29 percent lower and Singapore was down
0.86 percent, while Hong Kong, Seoul and Kuala Lumpur were almost
flat.


But Taipei added 0.31 percent, Jakarta was up 0.40 percent and
Manila put on 0.61 percent.


"The volatility of the past week provides a reminder that the
share market correction is not necessarily over and that the US
economy is the real issue, not the Chinese share market," said
AMP Capital Investor strategist Shane Oliver in Sydney.


Oil prices were weaker in late Asian trade after the OPEC oil
cartel decided, as expected, to maintain its output quotas, with
New York's light sweet crude for delivery in April down nine
cents at 57.46 dollars a barrel.


In Europe, London's FTSE 100 index of leading companies shed 0.17
percent in early deals while Frankfurt's DAX 30 index fell 0.31
percent and in Paris the CAC 40 index lost 0.18 percent.

