

US consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in February, the Labor
Department said Friday, signaling inflation that is slightly
above most market expectations.


The consumer price index (CPI) was stronger than the 0.3 percent
expected by Wall Street analysts.


But the "core" CPI index, which excludes volatile food and energy
costs, was up a more modest 0.2 percent, in line with market
forecasts.


Over the past 12 months, consumer prices have risen 2.4 percent
and the core index is up 2.7 percent.


In February, a 0.9 percent leap in energy prices drove up the CPI
index after energy costs fell 1.5 percent in January.


Food prices rose 0.8 percent in February after rising 0.7 percent
in January.


Apparel prices were up 0.5 percent in the month, while
transportation prices rose 0.1 percent.


Friday's data should come somewhat as a relief a day after a
separate report showed an unexpected 1.3 percent surge in
wholesale prices.


Robert Brusca at FAO Economics said the CPI report was "as
expected but still not good."


Consumer prices do not always reflect higher wholesale costs
because these are sometimes absorbed by retailers, and CPI has a
major component of services that do not involve goods at the
wholesale level.


But Brusca said inflation trends may be hotter than the Federal
Reserve would like.


"International competition is doing little to tame the inflation
pressure in the services sector," he said.


The Federal Reserve halted a string of rate hikes in August with
its base rate at 5.25 percent, but has warned it may resume rate
increases if inflation is a threat. But some economists are
expecting the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to cut rates
later this year to stimulate flagging economic conditions.


Marie-Pierre Ripert at IXIS Corporate and Investment Bank, said:
"Today's readings on inflation, coupled with other strong
inflation indicators (PPI, average hourly earnings, unit labor
costs), suggest that the Fed will keep its tightening bias at the
next FOMC on March 21."


However, she said the  tone of the statement "could be more
dovish than the last time" because of a slightly less optimistic
economic outlook.

