

Pope Benedict XVI will visit Brazil May 9-14, the Vatican
officially announced Friday, confirming that he will go to Sao
Paolo and open a conference of Latin American bishops in
Aparecida.


The trip will be the first of Benedict's nearly two-year-old
pontificate to the Americas.


The Vatican did not give details of the pope's programme, but
local church sources said he would celebrate an open-air mass in
Aparecida, near Sao Paulo, on May 13 before opening the 18-day
Latin American Episcopal Conference.


The event's agenda will include poverty and exclusion in Latin
America, the proliferation of evangelical sects competing with
the Catholic Church, and the impact of globalisation.


The announcement came two days after the Vatican took new aim at
Latin America's broadly popular liberation theology, issuing a
warning to one of its leading lights, Spanish Jesuit priest Jon
Sobrino.


Sobrino's books, widely distributed in the heavily Catholic
region, contain passages that are "either erroneous or dangerous
and may cause harm to the faithful," the Vatican said.


The conservative pope, 79, is a strong opponent of liberation
theology, which took root in Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s
and focuses on Christ as the liberator of the oppressed.


It emphasises the Christian mission of bringing justice to the
poor and oppressed, particularly through political activism.


As head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith for
more than two decades before becoming pope, the then Cardinal
Joseph Ratzinger locked horns with Brazil's leading advocate of
liberation theology, Franciscan Leonardo Boff, in 1985, silencing
him for a year.


During his visit, according to Brazilian church sources, Benedict
will canonise Brazil's first Roman Catholic saint, 18th-century
friar Antonio de Sant'Ana Galvao, at a mass in Sao Paolo on May
11.


Friar Galvao, who lived from 1739 to 1822, founded monasteries
and convents throughout Brazil. He was beatified -- the step
before canonisation -- by pope John Paul II in 1998.


The pope has travelled twice to his native Germany as well as to
Poland, Spain and Turkey since succeeding John Paul.

