

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government said Friday it did not
believe there was proof Japan forced women into World War II
brothels, reiterating remarks that caused an uproar earlier this
month.


"The government did not find evidence showing forced recruitment
by Japanese military authorities or bureaucrats," Abe's cabinet
said in a policy statement in parliament responding to a question
by an opposition lawmaker.


It said, however, that Abe's cabinet would not change a landmark
1993 apology that the Japanese government issued to former sex
slaves.


The 1993 apology "was not endorsed by the then cabinet of Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa but successive Japanese cabinets have
inherited it," the statement said.


Abe, known for his conservative views on history, caused outrage
earlier this month when he said there was no evidence that so-
called "comfort women" were forced into sexual slavery "in the
strict sense of coercion."


He later elaborated, saying he was talking about physical
coercion, such as kidnappings of women by Japanese soldiers to
put them into brothels.


After an uproar, Abe has said repeatedly that he stands
"sincerely" by the 1993 apology.


Abe's remarks have provoked a furore in Asian countries that were
invaded by Japan and in the United States, where the US Congress
is considering a bill that would demand Japan make an outright
apology to comfort women.


South Korean lawmaker Yoo Ki-Hong on Friday visited Tokyo to
demand a "forward- looking settlement" to the comfort women row.


"The grudge and hatred of about 200,000 comfort women mobilised
from Korea, China, the Philippines, Australia, et cetera, are
being revived now," Yoo said in a statement he handed to Japanese
government officials.


"We strongly ask the prime minister to pay attention to and
sincerely listen to the voice of the world," said the statement
by Yoo, a member of South Korea's ruling Uri party.


"Abe, as the prime minister of Japan, should come face to face
with the victims of sex slavery and see the historical truth,"
the statement said.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


The 1993 statement, issued by the top government spokesman at the
time, apologised to comfort women and said the imperial army was
involved "directly or indirectly" in their recruitment and in the
management of the brothels.


Japan has been fighting against the US bill demanding action on
comfort women, which is seen as more likely to pass since the
Democrats took power from President George W. Bush's Republicans
in January.


Abe's government made its latest statement in response to a
critical question from the left-wing Social Democratic Party.


"The government should stand by the (1993) statement and
implement concrete measures to assume historical responsibility,"
said Social Democratic lawmaker Kiyomi Tsujimoto.


A left-leaning government in 1995 set up a fund to compensate
former comfort women. But it uses money collected from private
donations, leading many victims to shun it because they believe
it is a way for the government to avoid responsibility. The fund
is due to expire at the end of the month.

