

A British soldier who died in a high-profile "friendly fire"
incident by US forces during the Iraq war was unlawfully killed
in an assault which was entirely avoidable, a coroner ruled
Friday.


Coroner Andrew Walker said the attack on Lance Corporal Matty
Hull's convoy near the start of the 2003 conflict was criminal,
and hit out at the US military for failing to co-operate with the
inquest.


"The attack on the convoy amounted to an assault. It was unlawful
because there was no lawful reason for it and in that respect it
was criminal. I believe that the full facts have not yet come to
light," he said.


Hull's widow, Susan, who on Thursday made a direct appeal to US
President George W. Bush for help in revealing exactly what
happened on the day, burst into tears as Walker delivered his
verdict.


In a press conference immediately after the ruling she hailed the
coroner's findings.


"All of our family feel that it was the right verdict," she said,
voicing a "great sense of relief" and saying she had waited for
four years for the ruling.


Of the US pilots responsible, she added: "I hope that they are at
peace with themselves ... I am sure that they are feeling remorse
for what they did. I hope so anyway."


The high-profile inquest, in Oxford, southern England, heard that
the pilot of one of two US A-10 "tankbuster" planes swooped and
opened fire on Hull's clearly-marked armed vehicle convoy in
southern Iraq on March 28, 2003.


The 25-year-old died and four other British soldiers were injured
in the attack, which was recorded on cockpit footage that the US
initially refused to release to the inquest.


The inquest made headlines around the world after The Sun
newspaper secured a leaked copy of the cockpit recording. In it,
the pilot of one of the jets says after realising their mistake:
"We're in jail, dude."


The other, who opened fire, was heard weeping and saying:
"Goddammit."


Walker has criticised the US military's refusal to co-operate
with his inquiry. The British government also put pressure on the
Pentagon for them to send someone in person to give evidence but
they refused.


US policy is to send a statement, not witnesses, to such
inquests.


It also emerged Monday that the United States has failed to
provide a full version of its investigation into the incident and
turned down a request to give details of their rules of
engagement.


Susan Hull wanted Bush to help the inquiry by producing 11
censored lines from an interview between a ground controller and
one of the pilots.


In the recording, the pilots are heard convincing themselves that
the orange panels on top of Hull's convoy marking them out as
coalition forces were rocket launchers.


Walker said Friday: "I don't think this was a case of honest
mistake. There is no evidence the pilots were acting in self-
defence."

