

A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday hailed US moves to resolve
financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark event",
raising hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


North Korea has yet to give an official response to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars of North Korean funds
frozen in a Macau bank.


However a column in the Japan-based Chosun Sinbo gave the first
hint that North Korea may accept the US deal and proceed with a
six-nation accord signed last month that would see it begin
dismantling its nuclear programme.


"In a rare development, the United States has delivered, even if
for form's sake, its promise made at six-party talks," the
newspaper said.


"This is no less than a landmark event because the most
overbearing and vicious regime in US history did so, kneeling
down before a small country in the east which cannot match it in
terms of national power."


In a ruling late Wednesday, the US Treasury barred US banks from
dealing with Banco Delta Asia, the Macau-based institution it
said had laundered money for reclusive North Korea.


But the move allowed Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the cash after the bank was left in receivership.


The chief US envoy on North Korea, Christopher Hill, insisted
earlier Friday in Beijing that the United States had effectively
ended the dispute with its sanctions-busting strategy.


"I think they (the North Koreans) want assurances that the
financial issue is resolved," Hill told reporters.


"Frankly I think it has been resolved. We have already resolved
it persuant to our obligations."


Hill, who had breakfast with Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the
UN nuclear watchdog, said he hoped to hold talks later in the day
with Chinese officials to allay their concerns.


China, which hosts the six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear
programmes and is Pyongyang's closest ally, said on Thursday it
deeply regretted the US decision, and Hill sought to be
reassuring.


"I hope to see the Chinese some time today," he said. "I think we
are just trying to explain some of the modalities and procedures
about how this has been resolved."


Hill confirmed that a senior Treasury official, Daniel Glaser,
was going to Macau, a former Portuguese colony returned to China
in 1999, for talks with officials over the weekend, and could
stop over in Beijing.


The financial sanctions issue was one of the major oustanding
hurdles to a February 13 accord under which Pyongyang promised to
begin shutting down its nuclear programme within two months in
exchange for energy aid and diplomatic concessions.


A follow-up round of disarmament negotiations, which group the
two Koreas, China, the United States, Russia and Japan, begins
here Monday.


Preparatory working groups have already started, including one on
Friday aimed at setting up a permanent dispute resolution and
security mechanism for North East Asia.


ElBaradei, for his part, emerged Wednesday from a rare visit to
Pyongyang saying North Korea had told him it was committed to
disarmament as long as the financial sanctions issue was
resolved.


It was his first trip to the North since International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors were thrown out of the country in
December 2002.


North Korea conducted its first atomic test in October last year
but under global pressure signed the deal last month.


Under the accord, North Korea has 60 days to close down its main
Yongbyon nuclear facility in exchange for 50,000 tonnes of heavy
fuel and diplomatic concessions.


South Korea would provide the initial 50,000 tonnes while the
United States would share the cost of the first shipments to the
North, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported late Thursday.


The North would eventually receive the equivalent of one million
tonnes of fuel aid if it completely disbanded its nuclear weapons
programme.

