

A senior British minister said on Friday that attempts by
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe to suppress opposition to his
regime were "bordering on crimes against humanity".


Amid international condemnation at the arrest and beating of
opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, Foreign Office minister Lord
David Triesman said those involved needed to be hit with tough
sanctions.


He also called on African leaders to be "completely explicit" in
condemning Mugabe and the international community, in particular
the United Nations Human Right Council, to do more to end the
violence.


In a BBC radio interview, Triesman said: "I do think the actions
(of Mugabe's government) over quite a period now... look to me to
be bordering on crimes against humanity."


That included his suppression of Morgan Tsvangirai's Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) and the forced eviction of thousands of
people in Harare slums in 2005, he added.


Tsvangirai, who suffered head injuries, himself vowed in an
article published in The Independent newspaper here Friday to
fight on until his country is free and urged the world to
maintain pressure for democratic change.


The president of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) left
hospital Friday after being told he is out of danger and had
suffered no brain damage following his arrest for trying to
attend a banned demonstration on Sunday.


In his letter, he wrote: "Yes, they brutalised my flesh. But they
will never break my spirit. I will soldier on until Zimbabwe is
free."


Tsvangirai said he had not expected the extent and violence of
the suppression, despite knowing Mugabe had banned all opposition
political party meetings and rallies -- and described the current
situation in Zimbabwe.


Mugabe -- who has said critics of his government can "go hang" --
had "criminalised" Zimbabwe's police force and other national
institutions, creating "serious mistrust", he said.


"It shall take our nation decades of retraining the police and a
radical shift in mindset to rebuild that trust...


"I seek a comprehensive transformation of our society to restore
democracy and the rule of law.


"Democratic change in Zimbabwe is within sight. Far from killing
my spirit, the scars they brutally inflicted on me have re-
energised me. I seek no martyrdom.


"I only seek a new dispensation in my country in which citizens
live freely in prosperity and not in fear of their rulers."

