

A British soldier who died in a US "friendly fire" attack during
the Iraq war was unlawfully killed in an incident which was
entirely avoidable, a coroner ruled Friday.


Coroner Andrew Walker said the attack on Lance Corporal Matty
Hull's convoy near the start of the 2003 conflict was criminal,
and hit out at the US military for failing to cooperate with the
inquest into the soldier's death.


"I find there was no lawful authority to fire on the convoy. The
attack on the convoy therefore amounted to an assault. It was
unlawful because there was no lawful reason for it and in that
respect it was criminal," he said.


Hull's widow, Susan, who on Thursday made a direct appeal to US
President George W. Bush for help in revealing exactly what
happened on the day, burst into tears as Walker delivered his
verdict.


"All of our family feel that it was the right verdict," she told
a news conference after the ruling.


Of the US pilots responsible, she added: "I hope that they are at
peace with themselves and they can move on in their lives. I am
sure that they are feeling remorse for what they did. I hope so
anyway.


"And perhaps it sends a message to other pilots about how they
need to be trained and the enormity of what they're doing in the
skies."


She added: "There have to be lessons learnt. It's very clear that
after such a death evidence is required, full evidence, right
from the beginning...


"If that doesn't happen in circumstances like this then this will
all have been in vain."


The high-profile inquest, in Oxford, southern central England,
heard the pilot of one of two US A-10 "tankbuster" planes swooped
and opened fire on Hull's clearly-marked armoured vehicle convoy
in southern Iraq on March 28, 2003.


The 25-year-old died and four other British soldiers were injured
in the attack, which was recorded on cockpit footage that
Britain's defence ministry initially said did not exist and the
US then refused to release.


The hearing made headlines around the world after The Sun
newspaper secured a leaked copy of the classified recording and
it was broadcast on television.


In it, the pilot of one of the jets said after realising their
mistake: "We're in jail, dude."


The other, who opened fire, was heard weeping and saying:
"Goddammit."


Walker has criticised the US military's refusal to co-operate
with his inquiry. The British government also put pressure on the
Pentagon to send someone in person to give evidence but they
refused.


US policy is to send a statement, not witnesses, to such
inquests.


It also emerged Monday that the United States failed to provide a
full version of its investigation into the incident and turned
down a request to give details of its rules of engagement.


Susan Hull wanted Bush to help the inquiry by producing 11
censored lines from an interview between a ground controller and
one of the pilots.


In the recording, the pilots, who were hunting Iraqi forces, are
heard convincing themselves the orange panels on top of Hull's
convoy marking them out as coalition forces were rocket
launchers.


Walker said Friday: "The pilots chose not to take steps to
confirm the identity of the vehicles in the convoy that they
could easily have taken.


"The pilot who opened fire did so with disregard for the rules of
engagement and acting outside the protection of the law of armed
conflict... I don't think it was a case of an honest mistake."


Susan Hull said she and her late husband's family wanted to draw
a line under events and their lawyer, Geraldine McCool, said the
verdict did not mean the US pilot could face a criminal
prosecution, nor would they be seeking it.


No disciplinary action was taken against the pilots, from the
Idaho Air National Guard, by the US military.

