

Nigeria coach Berti Vogts is looking for a style and substance
from his team in next week's 2008 African Nations Cup qualifier
against Uganda.


"Obviously we need the maximum three points from this game to
help our qualification for the Nations Cup but I'm not only
interested in the result, I also expect a good performance from
the team," Vogts said at a reception party in his honour here
late Thursday.


"German teams are known to be only interested in results but with
the huge talent in Nigeria, it's equally important for me that
they also put up a good performance," the former Scotland manager
added.


Nigeria lead Group Three of the Nations Cup qualifying series
with six points from two games while nearest rivals the Cranes of
Uganda are two points adrift.


Niger and Lesotho are the other teams in the group with the
overall winner qualifying automatically for the Nations Cup in
Ghana next year.


The last time Nigeria and Uganda clashed at full international
level was 14 years ago when the Eagles were held to a goalless
draw in Kampala.


Vogts, who arrived the country Tuesday ahead of the March 24
match against Uganda, also said that he will lay emphasis on
respect, organisation and discipline to make a success of his job
in Nigeria.


"With respect, good organisation and discipline both on and off
the pitch, we can take Nigerian football to the next level," he
said.


The former Scotland coach announced that he will spend a lot more
time in Europe than Nigeria because most of the country's best
players are based there.


"I will probably spend about 10 days a month in Nigeria while I
will mostly be in Europe monitoring the performance of our top
players and talking to them as well as to their club officials,"
Vogts said.


"When I'm in Nigeria, I will also look out for players in the
domestic league as well as work with the other national teams."


Vogts disclosed that he will accompany the country's team to the
FIFA World Youth Championship in Canada in June because he
believes that for Nigeria to fulfil their potentials, football at
that level has to be encouraged.

