

Palestinians welcomed Friday the long-awaited announcement of a
unity government after a turbulent 12 months of deadly power
struggles, international isolation and economic hardship.


Prime minister-designate and Hamas leader Ismail Haniya will
present the new government and its political programme to
parliament on Saturday.


Lawmakers are expected to give a near unanimous vote of
confidence to the incoming coalition that unites the radical
Islamist Hamas and president Mahmud Abbas's secular Fatah party.


"There is national agreement between all the factions," Hamas MP
Ahmed Bahr told AFP.


After Saturday's vote, incoming ministers will take the oath of
office in Gaza City at 5 pm (1500 GMT). Those West Bank
appointees unable to travel to Gaza because of Israeli
restrictions will be sworn in the following day in the West Bank.


Hamas will take 12 of the 25 portfolios in the incoming cabinet,
while Abbas's Fatah faction will take six. Seven ministries,
including the powerful finance, foreign affairs and interior
posts, will go to independents and smaller factions.


Palestinians hope the new government will usher in an era of calm
and economic prosperity after a year of bloodshed and boycott.


"The Palestinian people, all their leaders, factions and parties,
have passed the stage of barbaric fighting and realised a
historic and important national achievement," the Palestinian Al-
Quds daily said.


It underscored the optimism in a cartoon that depicted the new
unity government marching through cracks in a stone wall
labelled: "International Boycott."


In the teeming streets and impoverished refugee camps of the Gaza
Strip, where the Fatah-Hamas power struggle has been fiercest,
residents voiced rare optimism.


"We are so happy about the unity government because we don't want
more fighting between Hamas and Fatah," said Sana al-Masry, 40, a
housewife from Khan Yunis in the south of the territory.


"What's important is that this government succeeds in ending the
siege, providing jobs, opening our borders and paying its
employees," she added.


In the Shati refugee camp, poultry farmer Zuhair Abdullah, 52,
heaved a sigh of relief.


"We are sick of the problems and the suffering we have endured
for over a year," she said. "The time has come to improve the
situation for the people."


Despite the landmark Palestinian agreement, however, relations
between Hamas and Fatah footsoldiers on the ground remain tense.


After a Fatah-linked intelligence official was killed by masked
gunmen in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah overnight,
security sources were quick to insist the shooting stemmed from a
family dispute and not from Fatah-Hamas differences.


The nervous reactions underscored the fragile peace bridging the
longtime rivals.


The West, meanwhile, has given few indications that it will end
its punishing aid boycott.


Israel on Thursday called the unity government agreement a step
backwards, and immediately ruled out any concessions. The United
States and European Union were noncommittal, saying they would
withhold judgment until they study the new cabinet's platform.


Israeli Deputy Defence Minister Ephraim Sneh reiterated his
government's uncompromising stance in an interview with public
radio on Friday in which he urged continued cooperation with
Abbas to undermine Hamas.


"Israel cannot give legitimacy to the Palestinian unity
government by cooperating with it while it rejects the principles
of the Quartet," he said.


"To cause the failure of Hamas, we need a moderate Palestinian
alternative and for that purpose we must negotiate only with Abu
Mazen (Abbas)."


The so-called Quartet of major players in the peace process --
the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United
States -- slapped an aid freeze on the Palestinian government a
year ago when Hamas, considered a terror group by Israel and the
West, came to power.


The Quartet insisted the Palestinian government renounce
violence, recognise Israel and agree to abide by past interim
peace deals if the flow of funds is to resume, although Russia
has since distanced itself from the demands.

