

A majority of voters want Finland's centre-left government headed
by Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen returned to power in Sunday's
general election, a fresh poll published on Friday showed.


Forty-three percent of 2,002 Finns surveyed said they wanted the
current coalition, consisting of the Centre Party, Social
Democrats and tiny Swedish People's Party, re-elected to a second
four-year term, according to a Gallup poll conducted March 9-13
and published in the Helsingin Sanomat daily.


Less than a quarter of voters, 24 percent, want to see a centre-
right coalition made up of the Centre Party and the Conservative
National Coalition Party, while 16 percent prefer an alliance
between the Conservatives and the Social Democrats.


Sixteen percent said they were undecided.


The election campaign has been a largely lacklustre affair --
Finland is characterised by a general political consensus, where
all of the big parties have governed together in broad coalitions
at some point in recent history.


But the campaign has gained intensity in recent days, with health
care and care for the elderly in the spotlight.


The Nordic country has one of Europe's most rapidly aging
populations. Two- thirds of Finns say they are not worried about
their future pension, but there is widespread concern about a
future shortage of caregivers for the elderly, and Vanhanen has
vowed to hire 30,000 people over the next four years.


The Centre Party remains the biggest party in the polls, and the
biggest party traditionally forms a parliamentary majority and
occupies the post of prime minister.


Should the Centre retain its lead, it could theoretically
continue its coalition with the Social Democrats, or switch to a
centre-right alliance with the Conservatives.


According to another Gallup poll published on Thursday, the
Centre Party garnered 23.3 percent of voter sympathies, the
Social Democrats 22.6 percent and the Conservatives 22.1 percent.


None of the three biggest parties has indicated which parties it
would seek to collaborate with if it wins Sunday's election.


In the last general election in 2003, the Centre Party won by
just 6,000 votes, and in 1999 the Social Democrats won by a
margin of 10,000.

