

A British soldier who died in a US "friendly fire" attack during
the Iraq war was unlawfully killed in what a coroner ruled on
Friday was an entirely avoidable incident.


Coroner Andrew Walker said the attack on Lance Corporal Matty
Hull's convoy was criminal, and criticised the US military for
failing to cooperate with the inquest into the soldier's death.


"I find there was no lawful authority to fire on the convoy. The
attack on the convoy therefore amounted to an assault. It was
unlawful because there was no lawful reason for it and in that
respect it was criminal," he said.


Hull's widow, Susan, who on Thursday made a direct appeal to US
President George W. Bush for help in revealing exactly what
happened on the day, burst into tears as Walker delivered his
verdict.


"All of our family feel that it was the right verdict," she told
a news conference afterwards.


Of the US pilots responsible, she added: "I hope that they are at
peace with themselves and they can move on in their lives. I am
sure that they are feeling remorse for what they did. I hope so
anyway.


"And perhaps it sends a message to other pilots about how they
need to be trained and the enormity of what they're doing in the
skies."


She added: "There have to be lessons learnt. It's very clear that
after such a death evidence is required, full evidence, right
from the beginning...


"If that doesn't happen in circumstances like this then this will
all have been in vain."


The high-profile inquest, in Oxford, south central England, heard
how the pilot of one of two US A-10 "tankbuster" planes swooped
and opened fire on Hull's clearly-marked armoured vehicle convoy
in southern Iraq on March 28, 2003.


The 25-year-old died and four other British soldiers were injured
in the attack, which was recorded on cockpit footage that
Britain's defence ministry initially said did not exist and the
US then refused to release.


In a statement Friday, Britain's Ministry of Defence (MoD) said
it was "very sorry for the confusion and upset caused" over the
footage and was "carefully considering" the coroner's comments
and ruling.


The hearing made headlines around the world after The Sun
newspaper secured a leaked copy of the classified recording and
it was broadcast on television.


In it, the pilot of one of the jets is heard saying "We're in
jail, dude" after realising the mistake.


Walker has criticised the US military's refusal to co-operate
with his inquiry. British government requests for the Pentagon to
send someone in person to give evidence were also refused.


US policy is to send a statement, not witnesses, to such
inquests.


The United States also failed to provide a full version of its
investigation into the incident and turned down a request to give
details of its rules of engagement.


Susan Hull wanted Bush to produce 11 censored lines from an
interview between a ground controller and one of the pilots.


In the recording, the pilots, who were hunting Iraqi forces,
convince themselves the orange panels on top of Hull's convoy
marking them out as coalition forces were rocket launchers.


Walker said Friday: "The pilots chose not to take steps to
confirm the identity of the vehicles in the convoy that they
could easily have taken.


"The pilot who opened fire did so with disregard for the rules of
engagement and acting outside the protection of the law of armed
conflict... I don't think it was a case of an honest mistake."


Susan Hull said she and the family wanted to draw a line under
events and their lawyer said the verdict did not mean the US
pilot could face a criminal prosecution, nor would they be
seeking it.


The US military took no disciplinary action against the pilots,
from the Idaho Air National Guard.

