

The chief of a small Palestinian Islamist group has denied
allegations that it is linked with the Al-Qaeda terror network
and that it was responsible for deadly recent bombings in
Lebanon.


"Our movement is not allied with any regime, nor with any
organisation on earth," Fatah al-Islam leader Shaker Abssi was
quoted as saying in Friday's edition of L'Orient Le Jour daily.


Earlier this week, a Lebanese government official said members of
an Al-Qaeda- linked Palestinian splinter group had admitted
carrying out the February 13 deadly Lebanon bus bombings.


Lebanese Interior Minister Hassan al-Sabeh and police chief
General Ashraf Rifi also said this week that Fatah al-Islam was
an alias for Fatah-Intifada, a radical Palestinian group they
said works closely with Syrian intelligence.


Sabeh said four Fatah al-Islam members carrying Syrian
nationality had been arrested and a fifth wanted suspect was
still at large.


Fatah al-Islam swiftly denied any involvement and accused the
government of preparing an offensive against the dozen or so
camps in Lebanon, which house more than half of the country's
nearly 400,000 Palestinian refugees.


Abssi, who is holed up with armed supporters in the Nahr al-Bared
Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon warned that "if an
offensive is launched against us, our response will be fierce."


And he challenged the authorities to present proof of the group's
involvement in last month's bombing.


"Since the birth of our movement was announced, we have been
under tight surveillance by the security services," he said. "I
challenge them to prove that we have had any encounters with the
people that are accused or that they are really part of our
movement."


Abssi denied accusations by Syrian Interior Minister Bassam Abdel
Majid that the Palestinian militant has been jailed in Syria
because of links with Al-Qaeda and for planning terrorist
attacks.


"I was jailed in Syria, but not over links with Al-Qaeda as he
has claimed," Abssi said.


"I was jailed because I was accused of having planned to carry
out an operation in the (Syrian) Golan (territory occupied by
Israel), as well as of having carried and smuggled arms into
Palestine (Israel)," he said.

