

Five members of an Afghan police patrol were killed when troops
opened fire on them in southern Afghanistan, police said Friday,
as the NATO force denied involvement.


The deputy police chief of Helmand province, where the incident
occurred late Thursday, said troops from NATO's International
Security Assistance Force had mistakenly shot the Afghans, but
this was rejected by ISAF.


Another six policemen were missing after the shooting in the
Gereshk area of the province, Helmand deputy police chief General
Isau Khan told AFP.


They had been travelling in a sedan of the type not often used by
police, he said.


"NATO forces mistakenly opened fire at (an) Afghan police patrol
in a misunderstanding as they did not recognise they were
police," he said.


"Five police in a Toyota Corolla car were killed and six others
in a second police vehicle are still missing.


"We have launched an investigation to find out the main reasons
resulting in this incident and how it happened."


But an ISAF spokesman said there was no ISAF involvement.


"We have closely reviewed various reports and the positions of
ISAF forces.  All indications are that no ISAF forces were
involved in this unfortunate incident," spokesman Colonel Tom
Collins said.


The separate US-led coalition, which works alongside ISAF, also
said it had no involvement.


With details still vague, a NATO spokesman in Helmand province
said it seemed increasingly likely only Afghan forces were
involved.


"The two parties appear to be some form of Afghan convoy and some
form of Afghan national security forces checkpoint. No one really
knows yet what happened," he said on condition of anonymity.


Helmand has seen serious fighting this year between the troops
and the Taliban and their allies. A major operation, Achilles,
was launched in the province two weeks ago to secure its largely
lawless northern areas.


There has also been a rash of incidents this year in which troops
from ISAF or the separate US-led coalition have killed civilians,
either fearing they were attackers or in bombing raids.


In one of the most serious, eight civilians were killed in the
eastern province of Nangarhar on March 4 following an ambush on a
US convoy that prompted troops to open fire.


It is unclear how many died in the attack and how many returned
fire, although police and witnesses said immediately afterwards
that all were killed by the troops. An investigation is under
way.


On the same day, nine Afghans were killed when US-led coalition
warplanes bombed a compound in the province of Kapisa, near
Kabul, that insurgents were seen to enter. Five women and three
children were among the dead.


The rising number of civilians being killed by international
forces who are here to help the government crush the insurgency
has raised criticism, and President Hamid Karzai has often urged
the forces to take more care.


The insurgency, in which the Taliban are supported by the Al-
Qaeda terror network, was its bloodiest last year. More than
4,000 people were killed, most of them rebels.


Human Rights Watch has said more than 1,000 civilians were among
the dead.

