

Big-hitting Chapchai Nirat raced into a commanding six-shot
halfway lead at the TCL Classic en route to matching the Asian
Tour's opening 36-hole record on Friday.


The overnight Thai leader maintained his sparkling form at Yalong
Bay Golf Club, firing a six-under-par 66 for a 17-under-par 127
total to equal the two-day record held by Briton David Howell and
Frankie Minoza of the Philippines.


On Thursday, Chapchai smashed the course record with a sizzling
61 which also equalled the 18-hole record in Asia.


The 23-year-old kept on course in his bid for a maiden Asian Tour
triumph, sinking one eagle and five birdies against a lone bogey,
and leads comfortably from Frenchman Jean-Baptiste Gonnet (66),
Rafael Echenique (69) of Argentina and the Australian trio Simon
Nash, Adam Blyth and David Bransdon, who all carded error-free
66s.


Taiwan veteran Lu Wen-teh, Japan's Taichi Teshima and Australian
Brad Kennedy were amongst those bunched on 134 in tied seventh
place, seven off the lead, going into the weekend rounds of the
one million dollar event co-sanctioned by the Asian Tour and
European Tour.


Chapchai, whose best finish on the Asian Tour was a runner-up
outing in the 2005 Taiwan Open, dropped his first bogey of the
tournament at the fourth hole but was delighted to double his
overnight lead.


"The only thing on my mind was to keep hitting fairways and keep
making putts. I just wanted to ensure I didn't make any mistakes.
Today my irons were good, my putting was good. Everything was
very good," he said.


"I just want to make as few mistakes as possible."


The 24-year-old Gonnet enjoyed three closing birdies, including a
chip-in on the par four 18th to head the chasing pack.


"I hope to begin tomorrow morning like that," he said.


With Yalong Bay yielding birdies and eagles from all corners of
the course, swashbuckling Englishman Nick Dougherty is not ruling
himself out despite going into the third round trailing by eight
shots.


"There are a lot of birdies out there and every time you don't
make one you feel you've given up a good opportunity," he said.


China's Liang Wen-chong, last week's winner in Singapore, carded
a 68 to lie on 137 while veteran Zhang Lian-wei bounced back with
a 65, an eight shot improvement from his opening round effort to
safely make it into the weekend rounds.


The halfway cut was set at five-under-par 139, the joint second
lowest in Asian Tour history, with 66 players moving into the
final two rounds. Welshman Ian Woosnam, Filipino Frankie Minoza,
Spaniard Ignacio Garrido and India's Shiv Kapur were among the
big names who missed the cut.

