

Britain stepped up its criticism of Zimbabwe's President Robert
Mugabe on Friday accusing him of action "bordering on crimes
against humanity" in his attempts to suppress opposition.


Foreign Office minister Lord David Triesman called for African
and European nations to step up action against Zimbabwe after the
police beating of opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai.


In a BBC radio interview, Triesman was asked whether military
action should be considered against Mugabe, given Britain's
interventionist policy against oppression elsewhere in the world.


"I don't think it would be easy or very practical to engage in
military intervention in Zimbabwe," he said.


"But I do think the actions over quite a period now... look to me
to be bordering on crimes against humanity."


That included Mugabe's suppression of Tsvangirai's Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) and the forced eviction of thousands of
people in Harare slums in 2005, he added.


Triesman's comments came amid growing international calls for
tougher action against Mugabe's regime after the arrest and
assault of Tsvangirai who suffered serious head injuries.


Tsvangirai vowed in a letter published in The Independent
newspaper here Friday to fight on until his country is free and
urged the world to maintain pressure for democratic change.


Triesman echoed Beckett's view Thursday that people involved in
the violence against opposition leaders must be properly
identified and hit with sanctions.


He also called for African leaders to be "completely explicit" in
condemning Mugabe and the international community, in particular
the European Union and the United Nations, to stand firm.


Tsvangirai left hospital on Friday after being told by doctors he
is out of danger and had suffered no brain damage following his
arrest for trying to attend a banned demonstration on Sunday.


In his letter, he wrote: "Yes, they brutalised my flesh. But they
will never break my spirit. I will soldier on until Zimbabwe is
free."


Tsvangirai said he had not expected the extent and violence of
the suppression, despite knowing Mugabe had banned all opposition
political party meetings and rallies -- and described the current
situation in Zimbabwe.


Mugabe -- who has said critics of his government can "go hang" --
had "criminalised" Zimbabwe's police force and other national
institutions, creating "serious mistrust", he said.


"It shall take our nation decades of retraining the police and a
radical shift in mindset to rebuild that trust...


"I seek a comprehensive transformation of our society to restore
democracy and the rule of law.


"Democratic change in Zimbabwe is within sight. Far from killing
my spirit, the scars they brutally inflicted on me have re-
energised me. I seek no martyrdom.


"I only seek a new dispensation in my country in which citizens
live freely in prosperity and not in fear of their rulers."

