

Ferrari boosted their chances of a morale-boosting victory in
Sunday's season- opening Australian Grand Prix with both their
cars the quickest in free practice here Friday.


The Italian giants, who dominated Formula One for six years
before being dethroned by Renault in 2005-06, looked in
threatening shape as the teams prepare for Saturday's qualifying
for grid positions.


Brazilian Felipe Massa and Finland's Kimi Raikkonen confirmed
their winter pre- season testing times by dominating the second
practice session to give Ferrari the early edge ahead of the
weekend.


Massa clocked the fastest lap of one minute 27.353 seconds around
the 5.3-kilometre Albert Park street circuit.


The Brazilian shaded his teammate Raikkonen by 0.397secs in the
second session, with reigning world champion Fernando Alonso,
driving for his new McLaren team, seventh best with 1:28.040,
some 0.687secs behind.


"This was a positive start to the weekend," Massa said. "But of
course what counts is tomorrow's qualifying, and most of all
Sunday's race."


Raikkonen, recruited last season by Ferrari to replace retired
seven-times world champion Michael Schumacher, was timed at
1:27.750.


"The car seems to be well balanced at this track and we managed
to pick up a good baseline of data to analyse," Raikkonen said.


Raikkonen was runner-up behind Alonso in a Renault in last year's
Australian GP and was also third for McLaren in the 2002 and 2003
Melbourne races, while Massa has only finished once in four
Australian race starts.


McLaren rookie Lewis Hamilton posted the third-best lap time of
1:27.829 ahead of Renault's Giancarlo Fisichella on 1:27.941.


"I was so excited when I drove out of the garage for the first
time this morning," 22-year-old Hamilton said.


"It was an incredible feeling as I have wanted to be a Formula
One driver since I started karting, and now I am enjoying every
single moment.


"Back at the McLaren Technology Centre we have done a lot of
simulation work to prepare me for this weekend, but it was good
to actually drive it for real."


Alonso, at his first GP for McLaren, said he almost completed all
the work he intended to in Friday's practice.


"We almost completed the planned programme but the track
conditions (rain) in the first session obviously had an impact,"
the Spaniard said.


"We are heading in the right direction, which is positive, and
I'm looking forward to the next two days."


World champion team Renault experienced fuel pressure problems
with the cars of both Fisichella and rookie Heikki Kovalainen.


Fisichella, who won the 2005 Australian GP for Renault, was
fourth fastest while Kovalainen languished in the 18th spot.


"It was a mixed day for us," Fisichella said. "The performance of
the car looked quite encouraging, especially on the longer runs,
but our problems meant we didn't complete the programme.


"We still need to fine-tune the set-up, but the handling is okay
and now we need to try and match our long-run performance, on the
first lap with new tyres."


BMW-Sauber's German driver Nick Heidfeld clocked in fifth
quickest with 1:27.970.


"It looks like we have been able to confirm the positive
impressions we had from our pre-season testing," Heidfeld said.

