

Pakistani riot police fired tear gas and arrested a top Islamist
leader Friday amid protests in Islamabad against the sacking of
the country's top judge, AFP reporters and witnesses said.


The demonstrations came hours before Chief Justice Iftikhar
Mohammad Chaudhry was due to attend a hearing at the Supreme
Court in the capital into misconduct charges laid by Pakistan
President Pervez Musharraf a week ago.


The opposition says Musharraf is trying to intimidate the
judiciary before they hear key issues -- including his planned
re-election by parliament and his dual position as president and
army chief -- later this year.


The United States, military ruler's close ally in the "war on
terror", said the judicial dispute was a "matter of deep concern"
while rights groups have warned of a constitutional crisis in
Pakistan.


Some people in a crowd of around 500 hardline Islamists, lawyers
and opposition political activists threw stones and bottles at
police several hundred yards from the Supreme Court building.


As police sirens wailed, other protesters ran from billowing
clouds of choking tear gas across a patch of open ground just
outside a security cordon set up by security forces.


Police seized Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the president of Pakistan's
main alliance of religious parties, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal
(MMA) or United Action Front, after he tried to break through the
security cordon, witnesses said.


He tried to resist arrest but was placed into an elite police
jeep. The vehicle could not drive out through the crowd and
activists then pulled him out of the car again before he was
detained once again, they said.


Another eight Islamist activists were also arrested, officials
said.


Ahmed had earlier led a session of Friday prayers in front of
parliament lodges.


Police also baton-charged 50 lawyers and political activists who
were shouting anti-Musharraf slogans to push them back from a
road outside the nearby Supreme Court building, an AFP reporter
said.


They shouted "Go Musharraf, go" and "Shame, shame" when security
vehicles passed by.


"This is the begining of the end of president Musharraf, his
cronies and collaborators," said Khwaja Asif, a senior leader of
former premier Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League party.


The leader of the secular Awami National Party, Asfandyar Wali,
said: "I hope good sense will prevail. The order against the
chief justice must be withdrawn. This is the only honourable way
out."

