

Laos confirmed its second human death from bird flu on Friday, a
woman who died earlier this month, after results from a lab used
by the World Health Organisation (WHO).


Unlike neighbouring countries China, Vietnam, Thailand and
Cambodia, the country had been spared any human deaths from the
virus, which has killed nearly 170 people, until this year.


But the unidentified 42-year-old woman who died from the virus on
March 4 near the capital Vientiane is the second death from the
virus here this year -- both of them this month. A 15-year-old
girl died on March 8.


The woman, from Saka village, had previously tested positive for
the H5 strain at the National Laboratory and Epidemiology Centre
and had been treated as a probable H5N1 infection.


Laos and the WHO said that a duck in her household had tested
positive for H5, and that on Thursday "culling activities were
completed" in the village.


Ducks can carry and spread the killer virus without showing
symptoms.


"Hospital staff that treated the patient and close family
contacts are being monitored daily," the health ministry said in
a statement. "None have shown signs of infection."


Laos, a landlocked and poor country, has reported H5N1 cases in
birds in 2004, last July and early this year and moved to contain
each outbreak by slaughtering tens of thousands of birds and
disinfecting the areas.


But Laos is seen as a lower risk for human cases, in part because
it has fewer than six million people spread out across
mountainous terrain, and only an estimated 20 million head of
poultry on mostly small, scattered farms.


WHO and the Lao communist government on Thursday stressed the
importance of strengthening human and poultry surveillance and
rapid reporting.


"We ask the Lao people to join together to halt the spread of the
disease," said Health Minister Ponmek Dalaloy. "Doing so will
help protect our children, our neighbours and our country's
economy."


He stressed that people should wash their hands with soap after
handling eggs or poultry, eat only well-cooked chicken, duck and
eggs, avoid contact with sick or dead birds, and quickly report
all suspicious cases.


WHO says the virus has now killed 169 people worldwide.


Experts have warned that the H5N1 virus could lead to a global
pandemic if it were to mutate into a form easily transmitted
between humans.


The WHO said on Friday that "the virus has not mutated to a form
that is easily transmissible among humans" and that the latest
death "does not indicate a significantly changed risk for
pandemic influenza at this time."

