

Ireland's cricketers were hailed as the country's latest sporting
heroes on Friday after their thrilling tie with Zimbabwe in their
debut World Cup match in Jamaica on Thursday.


The small but growing number of cricket fans in the Irish
Republic revelled in glowing newspaper coverage of the draw that
is giving the game a profile that it has not had for more than a
century.


Though the Irish Cricket Union is an all-Ireland body, Northern
Ireland has been the stronghold for the game on the island and it
is a minority sport in the Republic.


RTE state radio described the Zimbabwe encounter as "incredible"
and said the game must have arrived because taxi-drivers were now
discussing the team's progress in Jamaica.


"Unbelievable. No other way to put it. Ireland's cricketer's came
back from the dead to tie their first ever World Cup game," says
the Irish Times.


"While most people did not even know that Ireland had a cricket
team until recently, there are about 18,000 registered players
and officials," according to the newspaper.


Traditionally a country of emigration until the new prosperity of
the so-called Celtic Tiger economic boom began to attract
immigrants, Ireland now has players from countries like New
Zealand, Australia, South Africa, India and Pakistan.


The main hero of the team is 33-year-old Australian-born fitness
instructor Jeremy Bray, who carried his bat for 115 off 137
balls.


"The great Irish trait of never giving in earned the cricketers a
stunning tie," says the Irish Independent, "It sparked scenes of
jubilation both on and off the field."


It said Bray's performance "must count as Ireland's finest ever
innings" and the match was "Ireland's finest ever cricketing
day".


The game is very much a minority sport in the Republic with
attitudes only changing in recent years following the Northern
Ireland peace process and the arrival of immigrants from
cricketing countries boosting the game.


In the past, playing cricket had a political dimension. It was
known as a "garrison" sport because it was associated with
British army barracks around the country during colonisation.


It was brought to Ireland by the English and initially thrived
when it also spread through landed estates.


The progress of the game was then hammered by two developments --
"land wars" of the late 1800s against mainly Protestant British
landlords and the 1884 founding of the Gaelic Athletic
Association (GAA) to nurture the native games of hurling and
Gaelic football.


In 1890s the GAA brought in a ban on "foreign games" like
cricket, hockey, rugby and soccer. The ban was not rescinded
until 1971.

