

Thousands of workers at aircraft maker Airbus went on strike
across Europe on Friday in a rare show of cross-border union
power against 10,000 job cuts.


Mass protests were underway or planned from northern Germany to
southern Spain, from Britain to company headquarters in Toulouse,
southwest France.


"Today we have big demonstrations in Germany, in Britain, in
Spain and in France," the head of the European Metalworking
Federation, Peter Scherer, said.


"It's important to show that European workers stand together ...
and that we are all against job cuts and selling sites."


Union voices warned of much toucher action to come, even to the
halting of production lines, if Airbus and its parent EADS did
not back down on their "Power8" restructuring plan to save 5.0
billion euros (6.6 billion dollars) by 2010.


An official of the CGT union, Xavier Petracchi, said here that a
refusal by management to negotiate could lead to "stoppages of
the production lines."


Scherer, participating in a march of a few hundred workers
outside the headquarters of Airbus parent EADS in Paris, warned:
"We have to increase the pressure on the management to rethink
the Power 8programme.


"If they don't want to talk to us about the withdrawal of the
10,000 job cuts, we will continue to make pressure."


But at Airbus headquarters here, the number of people downing
tools for two hours -- 5,500 according to police and 7,000
according to unions -- was about half the 12,000 to 15,000 people
who had marched in the city in a strike on March 6.


Since then EADS has reported results showing that Airbus slumped
into operating loss for the first time last year, insisting that
restructuring is now urgent and the situation is "extremely
serious."


But it has also reassured investors and customers that although
delays in production of the A380 superjumbo jet have caused a
massive drain on funds, the group does not face an imminent cash
crisis.


At Hamburg in Germany, the IG Metall union said it expected about
10,000 people in the city centre. "We cannot accept the plan
that's been put forward," said IG Metall trade union leader
Juergen Peters.


In the German state of Lower Saxony where Airbus has two sites,
regional premier Christian Wulff expressed support for the
workers, and at a factory at Laupheim, south Germany, 2,000
workers and sympathisers formed a chain around the plant.


But, in remarks pointing to underlying tensions between German
and French interests over the plan, Hamburg senator Gunnar Uldall
complained that French politicians and unions had "turned Airbus
into a national project, we have to do the same."


In Toulouse, Jean-Francois Knepper of the French Force Ouvriere
(Worker Strength) union declared: "It's a success, there are
7,000 of us ... to defend our company which is clearly in
danger."


The cutbacks amounted to "a plan to dismantle Airbus ... the
management's only project is to sell Airbus bit by bit," he said.
"We are ready for even tougher action."


Knepper warned that "the effects of the action today will be felt
for months ... the workers have slowed down and the planes are
not being made at the usual rate."


Asked about the turnout, Knepper acknowledged that it was lower
than during a day of strikes in French factories alone on March
6.


He said this was because it was difficult to mobilise people on a
Friday and because an election of union officials had ended late
on Thursday and many delegates were tired.


The previous demonstration had taken the form of a march through
the city centre, and the demonstration on Friday attracted fewer
townspeople and staff from subcontracting companies, an AFP
reporter observed.


At two factories in the west of France at least 1,400 workers
stopped work and at a factory at Meaulte in northern France about
80 percent of 1,300 workers stopped work for two hours.

