

Pakistani media and international watchdogs Friday accused the
government of fresh attempts to censor their coverage of an
escalating row over the sacking of the country's top judge.


The private Geo television station said the Pakistan Electronic
Media Regulatory Authority had ordered it to stop airing its
flagship daily news programme "Today with Kamran Khan" until
further orders.


Other outlets said they had been pressured not to show Chief
Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry, who was suspended by
President Pervez Musharraf a week ago, in a positive light.


"We have been told not to make Chaudhry a hero and to avoid undue
coverage of lawyers' protests," said Talat Hussain, head of the
news section of Aaj television, another private station.


"We are working under tremendous pressure. We are being
threatened with being taken off air or even with the cancellation
of our licence if we give undue coverage to the chief justice
trial," Hussain said.


Geo broadcast an apology to viewers Thursday night saying the
banned programme, which had included debates on the judicial
issue, could not be aired due to media restrictions.


"I never knew that the government would get so desperate and
would lose patience so soon with this free flow of information,"
host Kamran Khan, an investigative journalist, said in a
statement.


Irfan Ahmed, a cable operator in the southern port city of
Karachi, said he had been told to "cut off news channels which
violate the instructions."


The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ)
denounced the government's moves.


"The rush to roll back press freedom in Pakistan is
accelerating," said Bob Dietz, CPJ's Asia programme coordinator.


"Under increasing political pressure at home and abroad, the
Musharraf government is resorting to heavy-handed tactics in
dealing with critics and the independent media.


"We call on President Musharraf to live up to his stated
commitment to freedom of the press and stop what appears to be
retaliation against Geo TV for critical coverage."


Global media watchdog Reporters Without Borders this week slammed
Pakistani authorities for allegedly suspending broadcasts by Geo
and Aaj television after they screened footage on Monday of
clashes between police and lawyers.


The United States on Thursday expressed "deep concern" at the
judicial crisis. Police detained nearly 100 opposition activists
overnight ahead of Friday's protests.

