

Angelina Jolie says she is sorry her adoption of a Vietnamese boy
has thrown him into the global media glare but will ensure he
stays in touch with his culture, a news report said Friday.


The Hollywood star on Thursday picked up three-year-old Pham
Quang Sang from his orphanage in Ho Chi Minh City and said she
wants to rename him Pax Thien, combining the Latin word for peace
and the Vietnamese word for heaven.


"Pax is only three years old, and he spent his childhood in the
orphanage," said the 31-year-old superstar and partner of fellow
screen idol Brad Pitt, according to the Vietnamese-language Phap
Luat (Law) newspaper.


But Jolie said she worried that photographers would now chase her
new son and said: "I want to say sorry for bringing this into
Pax's life."


Jolie was pursued Thursday by the media as she took the boy from
the orphanage to the adoption ceremony at the Ho Chi Minh City
justice department, which publishes the Law newspaper.


In an interview with the paper, Jolie said Pax speaks no English
and that "we have to learn to adapt to each other and study each
other's languages."


"We will also pay regular visits to your country. To the best of
my ability I want to understand more about your country, to see
what I can do to help," added Jolie, a goodwill ambassador for
the UN refugee agency.


The Academy Award-winning actress said she is not working on any
movies at the moment and wants to concentrate on her family,
which also includes five-year-old son Maddox, adopted from
Cambodia, who was travelling with her.


Jolie and Pitt also have a two-year-old daughter, Zahara, who was
adopted in Ethiopia, and a biological daughter, Shiloh, born last
May in Namibia.


"I will stay at home to help Pax integrate into his new life,"
she said.


"I have four children, and caring for them is the most important
thing for me right now. I am proud and happy to be their mother."


She said she had wanted to adopt children since she had been
young because children "always need a warm shelter and a family,"
adding: "I have the ability to realise their wish, so why not?"


Jolie, who owns a house in neighbouring Cambodia, where she shot
the movie "Laura Croft: Tomb Raider," also said she "feels at
home" in Southeast Asia.


"During this trip I want to visit Hanoi and hope to get a chance
to take my children to the sea," she told the newspaper. "Many
people have told me that Vietnam has beautiful coasts."

