

The injury-plagued Waikato Chiefs steamrolled the error-ridden
Golden Lions 34-7 here Friday to register their first win in this
season's Super 14 rugby series.


The Chiefs were spurred by feisty fly-half Stephen Donald, who
scored two tries, the tactical smarts of inside centre Tasesa
Lavea and a never-say-die forward pack missing most of its big
names.


Play was often scrappy but in the end the home side ran in five
tries to one, and were unlucky not to score at least two more.


As well as several missing All Blacks, injuries meant the absence
of Chiefs captain Jono Gibbes, centre Richard Kahui, utility back
Soseni Anesi, flanker Stephen Bates and lock Keith Robinson.


But the Chiefs looked less makeshift than the South Africans, who
were unable to maintain any attacking momentum due to poor
handling and frequent turnovers.


"The basic stuff cost us," skipper Andre Pretorius said.


The New Zealand side have a small chance of bringing themselves
back into Super 14 contention after a dreadful start to the
season which returned just a draw from their first five matches.


"It's nice to come into the shed with a win under our belts after
what have been some tough times for us," stand-in Chiefs captain
Tom Willis said.


Little went right for the Lions, who attempted to play a tight
game, using their bigger forward pack to bulldoze through the
Chiefs defence.


But their few attacking opportunities fizzled out amid handling
errors and turnovers at crucial times.


The enterprising Chiefs made more of their chances with Donald
opening the scoring after nine minutes, toeing through a chip
kick from halfback Brendon Leonard to force down the ball in the
corner.


Lions No. 8 Jacques Cronje was yellow carded after 21 minutes and
the home side immediately capitalised, with flanker Marty Holah
diving through a Chiefs' driving maul to score.


Neither try was converted but an early Donald penalty ensured the
Chiefs a 13-0 halftime advantage.


Donald added another try nine minutes into the second spell,
thanks to a turnover courtesy of former All Black Holah.


The South Africans hit back with six minutes remaining with
flyhalf Andre Pretorius converting his own try.


But any hopes of further reducing the deficit in the dying
minutes were snuffed out when Chiefs No. 8 Liam Messam finished
off a move sparked by yet another Lions turnover in their own
territory.


The embarrassment was compounded in the final minute when outside
centre Tane Tuipulotu intercepted a loose Lions pass and ran more
than 80 metres to score.

