

China's investment in urban infrastructure eased slightly in the
first two months of the year, government figures showed Friday,
but other key data suggest economic activity is actually picking
up.


China's fixed asset investment rose 23.4 percent in the first two
months of the year, said the National Bureau of Statistics, a
level marginally lower than the 24 percent rise registered for
all of 2006.


"Fixed assets are lower than the market expected because the ...
tightening policies issued last year are still working," said Shi
Lei, an economist with Tianxiang Consulting in Beijing.


"But in fact, fast credit and loan growth and better enterprise
profitability are all signs of a rebound in investment," he said.


In January and February of 2006 -- China publishes combined
figures for the first two months to minimise the distortion of
the week-long New Year holiday -- investment in fixed assets
increased 26.6 percent.


Total new fixed investment, a key indicator of state-funded
spending on major projects such as factories and power plants,
for the two months was 653.5 billion yuan (84 billion dollars),
the statistics bureau said.


Friday's headline figure amounts to a slight economic reprieve
for the Asian juggernaut but other data released this week paint
a picture of an economy that continues to grow apace.


Huge amounts of liquidity in China's financial system is driving
investment, generated by record exports and hot money betting on
a stronger yuan. This is turn results in loose credit conditions
despite the government's best efforts to slow an economy which
grew at a breakneck 10.7 percent last year.


In remarks made Friday after the close of China's annual two-week
parliamentary session, Premier Wen Jiabao warned that the world's
fourth largest economy had to wean itself off its credit and
investment binge.


"This is not sustainable," Wen told press in Beijing.


"Now we have an excessively high investment ratio and we have
excessively large extension of credit and excessive liquidity in
the market."


Beijing has progressively tightened monetary policy since early
2006 and taken administrative measures to cool overheated
property and auto markets but the economy is still bounding
along.


This year, China's regulators have again pledged a more even-
keeled course at 8.0 percent growth but economists said the slew
of economic data released this week clearly point to a pick-up in
Asia's second largest economy.


Growth in exports, which China has acknowledged it must do more
to slow and rebalance its trade relations, jumped 51 percent in
February while loans grew 36.8 percent in the two month period.


Meanwhile, a sharp rise of 18.5 percent in industrial output
followed news that February's inflation rate of 2.7 percent, was,
according to the central bank chief, "relatively high".


In a breakdown of the investment figures, the statistics bureau
said state financed investment for the two months to February
totalled 294.6 billion yuan, a rise of 17.96 percent from a year
ago.


Real estate, a sector that regulators have long worried is
overheated, received fresh funds of 178.6 billion yuan, up 24.3
percent, it added.


Gao Shanwen, chief economist with Everbright Securities based in
Shanghai, said the challenge for regulators would be to prevent
another spike.


"As time goes by, the effect (of previous measures) will fade
while credit and loans are picking up; I think investment will
increase again in the next half of the year," Gao said.

