

David Beckham, axed by England coach Steve McLaren following last
year's World Cup, says he'd walk back from the United States if
he was given the chance of playing for his country again.


The former England captain was tipped to be in line for a recall
ahead of next week's Euro 2008 qualifiers against Israel and
Andorra after a series of spirited showings for Real Madrid.


But an ill-timed knee injury scuppered that hope and with Beckham
due to take up a lucrative contract with Los Angeles Galaxy in
the summer, it appears his England days are now firmly over.


The 31-year-old accepts the situation is not in his hands, with
the odds heavily against him wearing the England shirt again.


But, in an interview with Sport magazine on Friday Beckham
confirmed he has not totally given up hope and feels his move to
the USA should be no barrier.


"I would walk back from the United States to play for England
again," he said.


"I am sure if I am doing well over there, it will not go
unnoticed. I will always be available to play for my country if I
am needed. I am a fit person and a fit player.


"Getting a recall is not my decision is it?


"If it does happen, then amazing. But, if it doesn't, then I am
honoured to have played the games I have played, and to have
captained my country so many times."


With numerous offers to continue his career in Europe, Beckham
stunned the world when he announced he was going to move across
the Atlantic. Critics have claimed the Londoner has taken the
easy option at a time when he could still have been competing at
the highest level in one of the major leagues.


However, as he sets about using his vast fame to try to raise the
profile of Major League Soccer, Beckham has admitted playing
against his beloved Manchester United, where he made an emotional
non-playing return in midweek, was something he just could not
contemplate.


"I don't really want to name the clubs I spoke to, because it
wasn't only in England - there were two big clubs in Italy, and
one big club in France as well, and they were all very tempting.


"But I have always said that I am a Manchester United fan - that
is how I was brought up, and that is how I will always be.


"I feel so passionate for United, even now, that it would have
been virtually impossible for me to play for another English
team.


"They are my team and I don't think I could have brought myself
to play against them for anyone."


Having seen Real crash out of the Champions League to Bayern
Munich last week and watched his team-mates suffer another
untimely stumble in the league, it appears Beckham will end his
four-year stint at Real empty-handed.


However, even if such a scenario eventually arises, Beckham will
not look back on his time in Spain with regret.


"We might still win something this season, and it would be
amazing to go out on a high," he said.


"But if that is not the case I won't look back and think of my
time at the club as being anything other than successful.


"I have spent four years at one of the biggest clubs in the
world, and I have been able to play with so many great players,
Zinedine Zidane to name but one.


"Just to be on the same pitch as Zidane was an absolute honour
for me. I have had an incredible time and will have no regrets at
all."


It has been suggested in some quarters Beckham will pocket a
staggering 125 million from his time in Los Angeles, rocketing
him into the echelons of the highest-paid sports stars of all
time.


Yet he insists money is not a prime motivating factor in his life
and that his desire to play remains as strong as it has ever
been.


"I always dreamt of wearing the number seven shirt for United and
England, and I have achieved that. Everything else has been more
than I could have ever dreamt about," he said.


"I know it is easy for me to say at this stage of my career and
in the position that I am in, but at no point has money been my
motivation for playing football.


"I dreamt about being a professional footballer from the age of
six or seven. That is why I got into the game, and that is what
continues to drive me on.


"Obviously it is an amazing - and groundbreaking - contract they
have offered me, but the challenge of making a difference was far
more important."

