

Eight people were injured, including seven policemen, and 56
rioters were detained late Thursday after police clashed with
violent far-right demonstrators in Budapest, national police
chief Laszlo Bene told a press conference on Friday.


"Seven policemen were injured, of whom one suffered serious
injuries and six were lightly injured. One civilian, who took an
active part in the riots, was also injured," Bene said.


He said 56 rioters were detained on various charges.


Bened added that authorities were not expecting new disturbances
in the coming days.


Police used tear gas and water cannons against radicals who
erected and set fire to barricades, smashed car windows and threw
stones and bottles at police.


Some protestors waved the Hungarian Arpad flag that has become a
symbol of the far-right since the country's pro-Nazi regime used
a similar one during World War II.


Others raised their arms in Nazi-like salutes.


The late evening violence ended hopes that the national day --
marking the country's 1848 revolution against Habsburg rule and a
traditional day of rallies -- could end peacefully.


There had been warnings that violence could erupt, after
intelligence services said last week extremists were stocking up
on weapons and planning coordinated attacks.


Security was tight as police aimed to prevent a repetition of the
riots that rocked Budapest in September and October.


Those riots were triggered by the leak of an audio tape in which
Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said he knowingly
misled voters on the economy to win in parliamentary elections.


Authorities in particular feared a repeat of October 23, when
violent far-right protestors tried to join a peaceful rally by
the opposition right-wing Fidesz party on the 50th anniversary of
a failed anti-Soviet uprising.


But although far-right supporters also joined a Fidesz rally on
Thursday, that gathering ended peacefully, drawing an estimated
200,000 altogether.


Fidesz leader Viktor Orban, who lost his second consecutive
parliamentary election last April, reiterated demands that the
government resign because it backtracked on campaign promises of
tax cuts to push through an austerity package.

