

Environment ministers from 13 nations responsible for most of the
world's greenhouse gas pollution began a two-day meeting near
Berlin on Friday, seeking a way forward in the global-warming
crisis.


The meeting at the Cecilienhof chateau -- the venue of the 1945
Potsdam agreement that reshaped Europe -- gathers the Group of
Eight (G8) countries and five major developing nations: Brazil,
China, India, Mexico and South Africa.


Together, their economies account for more than two-thirds of the
world's carbon emissions, the invisible gases that trap heat from
the Sun and threaten havoc with the planet's delicate climate
system.


German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel said the goal was to
find common ground ahead of a G8 plus Five summit in June in the
Baltic resort of Heiligendamm.


"It's not a negotiation today, it's only a discussion about two
issues, biodiversity and climate change, that we will prepare for
the G8 summit," Gabriel told reporters.


"The last treaty that we had in this building was a little bit
complicated, -- we don't want to have do that today," he quipped.


Earth's surface temperatures have been steadily rising for the
last few decades, driven by the release of billions of tonnes of
carbon gases from burning fossil fuels.


The only worldwide pact for reducing these dangerous emissions is
the UN's Kyoto Protocol.


The treaty runs out in 2012 but it will deliver just a tiny cut
of a few percentage points compared with 1990.


And that reduction will apply only to industrialised countries,
not big developing ones, which do not have binding, targeted
pledges under the present format and are now becoming hefty
polluters in their own right.


Worse, Kyoto has been virtually crippled by a walkout by the
United States, which by itself accounts for nearly a quarter of
world pollution.


Negotiations are underway for Kyoto's post-2012 format.


But for it to provide the massive cuts that experts are
demanding, it needs to coax an agreement from the oil-addicted
United States.


And it must secure tough commitments from big developing
countries, which fear their dash for growth could be wrecked by
the cost of switching to cleaner, more fuel-efficient technology.


The Potsdam meeting is the first chance to see whether the US and
the Big Five developing countries are spurred into concessions by
the European Union's new offer on greenhouse-gas cuts.


At a summit last week, the 27-nation European Union (EU) pledged
to cut its own greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and
deepen it to 30 percent if "international partners" follow suit.


British Environment Minister David Miliband, whose last week
unveiled the most ambitious national legal blueprint for curbing
greenhouse gases, said the EU's offer was "a significant attempt
to break the logjam."


"I hope there will be some new thinking, some new ideas, some
openness, because that is what the G8 plus Five process is
designed to contribute," he told reporters.


Miliband hoped the United States would join a global emissions
reduction deal as it could economically benefit from it.


He said developing countries also realised that, even if they
were least to blame for the greenhouse-gas problem, they were
badly exposed to it and also had to contribute to fixing it.


"(The) choice is whether they have a high-carbon path of
development, repeating the mistakes of the industrialised
countries, or whether they are helped to choose a low-carbon path
of development," and rich countries had to help them choose the
latter, he said.


Meanwhile, the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) reported on Thursday that the Earth had its warmest
December-February period since records began 128 years ago.


A record warm January worldwide pushed average temperatures in
December-February to 0.72 C (1.3 F) above normal for the 20th
century.


In January, the UN'S Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) pointed to loss of alpine glaciers and snow cover,
retreating permafrost and shifting rainfall patterns as signs
that global warming had started to interfere with the climate.


By 2100, global average surface temperatures could rise by
between 1.1 and 6.4 C (1.98 and 11.52 F).

