

World oil prices edged up on Friday as traders weighed up the
impact of a decision by the OPEC crude producers' cartel to keep
its production levels steady.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added eight
cents to 60.76 dollars per barrel in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, gained 19 cents to 57.74 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


"OPEC's agreement to leave production restraints unchanged was
widely anticipated, but the impact of the decision is still being
debated," said Deutsche Bank analyst, Adam Siemski.


Crude futures had fallen on Thursday after OPEC maintained its
daily output target at 25.8 million barrels after a ministerial
meeting in Vienna, arguing that global supply levels were
healthy.


"The market is stable, the market is healthy, we do not need to
touch (output) at this time," OPEC secretary-general Abdullah al-
Badri told a press conference after the meeting.


The 12-nation cartel -- which had cut production at its two
previous meetings in October and December -- decided against an
explicit output announcement in its official written statement.


Instead, the cartel addressed market volatility.


"Although all indicators clearly show that the market remains
well-supplied with crude oil ... overall oil market volatility is
likely to continue," OPEC said in the statement.


In its monthly report, OPEC added that world oil demand would
grow by 1.5 percent in 2007, matching its forecasts in January
and February.


OPEC's only surprise was its announcement to meet in September,
skipping an expected June meeting, analysts said.


The cartel said its next meeting would be an ordinary session, in
Vienna on September 11.


The move suggested "they are in no hurry to raise output again,"
said Tim Evans, Citigroup analyst.


The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Counties supplies
more than one third of global crude.


Crude oil prices began the week in negative territory on Monday
as traders had digested forecasts of warmer weather across the
United States, which is the world's biggest energy consumer.


They regained ground amid fresh turmoil on global equity markets
and patchy US energy reserves.


Prices also found support after the International Energy Agency
warned of a potential supply crunch in many industrialized
nations during the first quarter of 2007.

