

Asian stocks closed easier Friday after a volatile week saw
global markets roiled by fears growing problems in the US housing
market could halt the stellar run of the past few years, dealers
said.


They said most bourses were little changed for the week, having
recovered from very heavy losses on Wednesday, but investor
sentiment has been rattled by the second round of global turmoil
since late February.


On the day, there was little to be gained from taking any fresh
positions going into the weekend and ahead of key central bank
meetings in the United States and Japan.


Dealers said no one is expecting any change in US or Japanese
interest rates but investors want to see what both banks have to
say on the economic outlook, especially after warnings from
former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan about the dangers
of a recession.


Confidence, which appeared to have recovered from the late
February sell-off sparked by heavy losses in Shanghai, once more
has been undercut but this time by potentially more worrying
long-term problems in the key US housing market.


News of a sharp rise in US mortgage loans, especially in the
riskier sub-prime segment, did the damage mid-week and left
investors fearful that the problem could have a negative knock-on
effect on the wider US economy.


Much now depends on US consumer inflation data due later Friday
after uncomfortable wholesale price figures Thursday raised the
prospect that US interest rates will remain at least on hold for
some time to come.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
in Tokyo, where the Nikkei 225 lost 0.69 percent.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices closed down 0.69 percent as
investors remained wary about a stronger yen and problems brewing
in the US housing sector, dealers said.


They said the market was cautious despite modest overnight gains
on Wall Street, with sentiment still fragile after the recent
sharp falls on global bourses and ahead of a slew of US data and
a Federal Reserve meeting next week.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares fell 116.24 points to 16,744.15. The TOPIX index of all
issue on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section dropped 17.12
points or 1.01 percent to 1,677.06.


Decliners beat gainers 1,320 to 329, with 81 stocks flat.


Volume rose to 2.4 billion shares from 2.3 billion on Thursday.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight led some in the market to
speculate that a Fed interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon."


US producer prices jumped by 1.3 percent in February, twice the
amount the market was forecasting.


Dealers said investors will likely remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


Hiroyuki Nakai, chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Research Center,
said that since investor attention is currently on the US housing
market, housing-related economic indicators due out next week
will be closely watched.


He said the market widely expects the Fed to keep interest rates
on hold next week but its statement at the end of the meeting
would be carefully assessed for clues to US monetary policy
direction in coming months.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed little changed after a
choppy session as investors turned cautious ahead of  results
announcements from blue chip heavyweights next week, dealers
said.


The market opened lower on worries over possible economic
tightening measures in China but recovered soon on hopes of solid
earnings from top stock China Mobile and some short-covering
activity.


Another late turn, saw the market slip back as investors were
reluctant to take fresh positions ahead of the weekend and a US
central bank meeting next week.


After heavy losses earlier in the week on concerns at news of
mounting problems in the key US housing market, investors were
both cautious and anxious to hear what the US central bank has to
say on the economic outlook.


Losses on the mainland and Tokyo bourses also weighed on
sentiment.


Hutchison Whampoa, Cheung Kong, China Mobile and PetroChina are
among the companies due to announce their 2006 results next week.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 15.94 points at 18,953.50, after
a low of 18,770.28 and a high of 19,130.10, on turnover of 43.35
billion dollars (5.56 billion US).


For the week, the Hang Seng Index was down 181.38 points or 0.95
percent, marking the third straight weekly fall.


"The market's gains were eroded in late trade ... following the
Japanese market's fall and as China's A-share markets reversed
early gains amid concerns over economic tightening measures,"
said Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial group.


Pang said worries over the unwinding of yen carry-trades have
also been re- ignited as the Japanese currency is again showing
signs of strengthening.


Peter Lai, sales director at DBS Vickers, said sentiment was
dampened after losses in Japan and China.


"Overseas markets remain unstable, which will likely continue to
affect the local market in the near term. I expect the market to
see a correction again before it becomes stable," he said, adding
that the benchmark index may fall to the 18,300-18,400 level.


SEOUL: South Korean shares inched up as corporates and brokerages
built positions after a firmer close on Wall Street eased some of
the recent concerns about the US economic outlook, dealers said.


The market recouped early losses and briefly touched 1,430 points
in late trade but the rally was not strong enough to convince
cautious investors looking to central bank meetings in both the
United States and Japan.


The KOSPI index added 0.95 points at 1,427.88, after trading
between 1,416.30 and 1,431.75. It ended the week with a gain of
4.3 points or 0.3 percent.


Volume was 295 million shares worth 2.5 trillion won (2.64
billion dollars). Gains led falls by 413 to 319, with 98 stocks
unchanged.


Institutions and retail investors were net sellers of shares
worth 49.6 billion won and 25.9 billion won each. Foreign
investors were also net sellers of 8.6 billion won.


"The upside momentum was not very strong, partly due to continued
sell-offs by foreign investors and investment trusts," said
Bookook Securities analyst Kim Min-Sung.


He said concerns over developments on overseas markets were
expected to continue depressing the bourse.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 0.31 percent higher as
investors took comfort from Wall Street's modest gains overnight
and a recovery in Hong Kong after early losses, dealers said.


They said, however, the gains were capped by worries over the
volatility in global markets and news that some local firms are
being probed by authorities.


In the latest instance of corporate troubles, Veutron Corp's
premises were searched by prosecutors Thursday. The company said
it has no knowledge of what the authorities were looking for.


Earlier this week, Benq's offices were searched over an insider
trading probe.


The weighted index closed up 23.84 points at 7,719.80, off a low
of 7,676.39 and high of 7,743.37, on turnover of 118.75 billion
dollars (3.60 billion US).


Risers led decliners 578 to 535, with 191 stocks unchanged.


A total of 35 stocks closed limit-up, while nine were limit-down.


The food sector was up 2.48 percent while financials added 0.98
percent and the key electronics slipped 0.10 percent.


"The local bourse was divided -- between Wall Street's advance
overnight and weakness in some Asian markets this morning," said
Stanley Hsu, a manager with First Taisec Securities.


"The uncertainties regarding neighbouring markets kept investors
from chasing prices much higher."


He said concerns over recent investigations into listed firms by
prosecutors were somewhat offset by a significant recovery by
BenQ.


SHANGHAI: Chinese shares prices closed 0.72 percent lower as
investors took profits, seeking to secure some gains after
another volatile week, dealers said.


They said the market reversed course in late trade as a fresh
round of capital inflows was not enough to maintain indices in
positive territory amid uncertainty about the Chinese economy and
nervousness in global markets.


A raft of economic data released this week shows that the economy
is still bounding ahead, sparking fresh fears that regulators
will have to take more measures to slow growth, prompting the
Shanghai market to fall two percent on Wednesday.


Sharp falls in overseas market midweek on concerns that the US
housing market may be in trouble also rattled investor sentiment
in China before shares recovered some of the lost ground to close
out the week 0.25 percent lower.


Chinese stocks, up about 150 percent from January last year, are
also approaching key technical levels that some analysts believe
will need significantly more momentum to break through.


Volumes were once again very heavy, running just short of 20
billion dollars.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai stock exchange, closed down 21.22
points at 2,930.48 on volume of 104.62 billion yuan (13.5 billion
dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index ended down 22.15 points or 0.71
percent at 3,079.09 on turnover of 104.06 billion yuan and the
Shenzhen A-share Index lost 11.89 points or 1.45 percent to
808.77 on turnover of 51.57 billion yuan.


"The market was weighed down by profit-taking as investors are
getting cautious with the key index moving close to the 3,000
points level," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


"There are also lingering fears about the possibility that the
central bank might tighten credit over the weekend."


Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment, said the market had
little momentum and expected stocks to stall around current
levels.


"I think the Shanghai composite index will consolidate around the
2,950-points level in the short run," Zhang said.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed down 0.29 percent as
sentiment remained cautious following the heavy sell-off earlier
in the week on concerns at mounting problems in the US housing
market, dealers said.


They said investors were likely to remain wary given the
uncertainty over the US economic outlook as defaults on US
mortgages increase, raising questions over the wider possible
fallout on the economy.


The key S&P/ASX 200 dropped 16.7 points at 5,836.3 while the
broader All Ordinaries index fell 14.0 points to 5,817.8.


Turnover was 1.74 billion shares worth 7.92 billion dollars (6.27
billion US) as falls led gains 596 to 574, with 361 stocks
unchanged.


AMP Capital Investor head of investment strategy Shane Oliver
said the market was helped by the strength in consumer and health
care stocks as well as resources, supported by strong commodity
prices.


"The volatility of the past week provides a reminder that the
share market correction is not necessarily over and that the US
economy is the real issue, not the Chinese share market," Oliver
said.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 0.84 percent weaker,
with sentiment dampened by a weak export performance for February
and investor caution on the outlook for the US economy, dealers
said.


The main Straits Times Index fell 25.85 points to 3,068.75.
Volume was 1.11 billion shares worth 1.25 billion dollars (822
million US). Losers led gains 360 to 272, with 755 stocks
unchanged.


Figures released Friday showing a sharp 17 percent slump in key
electronics exports weighed down market sentiment, dealers said.


"The tech slump is past its worst, but the tech recovery is
slow," said Chua Hak Bin, an economist with Citigroup in
Singapore.


"Electronics will be a drag on manufacturing in the first
quarter," he said.


Fresh concerns over whether the US was heading into a slowdown
also affected market sentiment, with investors waiting on US
inflation data later Friday, dealers said.


"Short-term sentiment will will hinge on the data ... and
inflation (above market expectation) is never good for stocks,"
said Yeo Kee Yan, retail market strategist at DBS Vickers.


"I would say investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude until
the current uncertainties clear up," he said.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 0.16 percent higher
in cautious trade ahead of the weekend after falls in Tokyo and
fears of a slowing US economy further dampened sentiment, dealers
said.


They said the late buying of selected blue-chips nudged the key
index back into positive territory.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index gained 1.89 points at 1,182.20
on turnover of 992.08 million shares worth 1.3 billion ringgit
(370.37 million dollars).


Losers led gainers 467 to 341, with 273 stocks unchanged.


"There were no fresh leads; investors were in a cautious mood and
the WiMax factor was just not big enough to move the market as it
involved small-cap companies," said MIMB Investment bank research
head Pong Tong Siew.


Pong was referring to the government's decision to award WiMAX
licenses to four telecommunication operators to provide fourth
generation (4G) wireless high speed Internet services nationwide
this year.


He said the performance in recent days "does not favor the market
going up next week."


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.48 percent lower as investors
sold export- linked stocks in the face of a rising baht, which
hit new nine-year highs against the dollar, dealers said.


They said investors also sold bank stocks, with sentiment
cautious after recent volatility sparked by concerns over the US
economic outlook.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index fell 3.26
points to 671.05 while the blue-chip SET 50 index lost 2.79
points to 469.42.


Losers led gainers 190 to 115, with 138 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.6 billion shares worth 8.2 billion baht (234
million dollars).


The Thai baht extended its gains against the dollar, closing at a
new nine-year high of 34.92-93 from Thursday's 34.98-35.01.


"The baht's appreciation against the dollar pressured the market,
especially export-linked stocks," said Kavee Chukitkasem,
assistant managing director of Kasikorn Securities.


The strong baht makes Thai exporters less competitive in overseas
markets and slashes the value of firms' repatriated profits.
Exports are the driving force of the Thai economy.


The Thai unit was boosted by sustained speculation that the
government will soon lift controversial currency rules aimed at
curbing gains in the baht, which has soared nearly 12 percent
over the past year.


Although Thai central bank governor Tarisa Watanagase and new
Finance Minister Chalongphob Sussangkarn have repeatedly said the
government would keep the capital rules, dealers said investors
were betting the opposite.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed little changed as
continued strong gains in mining stocks were offset by profit-
taking ahead of a long-weekend, dealers said.


Miners such as Inco and Aneka Tambang were lifted by gains in
metals prices, particularly nickel.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index edged up 1.529 points
at 1,777.890, off a low of 1,771.696 and a high of 1,786.939.
Volume was 1.87 billion shares worth 2.08 trillion rupiah (225.35
million dollars).


For the week, the main index gained 1.3 percent.


Decliners led gainers 70 to 58, with 61 stocks unchanged.


The market is closed Monday for a public holiday.


Rafdi Prima analyst Sarijaya Permana said the market traded in a
tight range, with most investors avoiding aggressive positions
ahead of the long-weekend.


"Strong gains in mining stocks, however, helped the market close
in positive territory," he said, referring to the index's slight
0.09 percent rise.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 0.61 percent higher on
bargain hunting after a two-day slide, dealers said.


Investors were also encouraged by the government's better fiscal
performance in the first two months of the year but thin turnover
indicated many remained cautious after the recent volatility on
global markets.


The Philippine Stock Exchange composite index rose 18.64 points
at 3,062.25 after trading between 3,043.61 and 3,066.13. The
index was down 1.2 percent for the week. Gains led losers 60 to
34 losers, with 60 stocks unchanged.


Turnover was 2.8 billion shares worth 1.8 billion pesos (37
million dollars), compared to 2.7 billion shares worth 2.4
billion pesos (50 million dollars) on Thursday.


Shortly before the market opened, the government said it incurred
a budget deficit of 18.6 billion pesos in the first two months of
the year, less than half of the 40.4 billion pesos deficit
recorded in the same period last year.


"The smaller budget deficit for the first two months of the year
is good news for the market and ... means less crowding-out
pressure on interest rates," said Jose Vistan at AB Capital
Securities.


"It gives us an assurance that borrowing costs will remain low,"
said Vistan, who expects the news to support follow-through
buying on Monday.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.41 percent lower,
with sentiment remaining uncertain after sharp falls in world
markets earlier this week, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index fell 16.61 points to 4,037.59 on
turnover of 124.7 million dollars (86.7 million US). Rises and
falls were equal at 51 among the 143 stocks traded.


Joe Gallagher, institutional adviser at Goldman Sachs JB Were,
said the tone remained weak following the recent volatility.


Market leader Telecom eased three cents to 4.62 dollars.
Investors were increasingly concerned about the impact of new
government regulations on the company's profitability, Gallagher
said.


Dealers also noted strong housing data out Friday might
strengthen the case for another interest rate rise.


MUMBAI: Indian shares closed 0.9 percent lower as investors
unwound positions ahead of the weekend on fears of a further
weakening of global markets, dealers said.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index fell 113.45
points to 12,430.40.


Dealers said sentiment was also hit by concerns of more monetary
tightening after India's inflation jumped for a second straight
week to 6.46 percent for the week ended March 3.


"Investors are nervous as there's no clarity on which way global
markets will move next week. Higher inflation has raised fears of
a further tightening in monetary policy," said Advait Date,
dealer with brokerage BHH Securities.

