

Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was set to leave
hospital on Friday after doctors gave him the all clear and to
push on with his campaign to topple President Robert Mugabe.


Movement for Democratic Changer (MDC) president Tsvangirai was
badly beaten in police custody earlier this week but was told by
doctors on Thursday he had suffered no long-term damage from his
head injuries and was now out of danger.


In an article published on Friday he vowed that veteran president
Mugabe would not deflect him from the campaign to "free"
Zimbabwe.


"Yes, they brutalised my flesh. But they will never break my
spirit. I will soldier on until Zimbabwe is free," Tsvangirai
wrote in an article published in the British Independent
newspaper.


Mugabe has brushed aside international condemnation sparked by
the images of a badly-beaten Tsvangirai, saying Western
governments could "go hang" themselves and accused the MDC of
instigating the violence.


But one of his chief critics, former colonial power Britain,
called for those responsible for the violence to be subject to
the same sanctions already in place against Mugabe and his
immediate coterie.


A spokesman for Tsvangirai confirmed the MDC leader was expected
to leave the private Avenues hospital and then address a press
conference.


"I have just spoken to him and definitely, he is coming out this
morning," Nelson Chamisa told AFP.


"After that he is expected to attend a press conference with
other leaders from the Save Zimbabwe Campaign," he added.


In the newspaper article, Tsvangirai said he had been surprised
by the brutality of the treatment he received at the hands of the
security forces who arrested him and dozens of supporters on the
way to a banned protest on Sunday.


"Although Robert Mugabe had banned all opposition political party
meetings and rallies, I had never anticipated that he could go as
far as ruthlessly crushing a peaceful prayer meeting," Tsvangirai
wrote.


Mugabe however has been unapologetic about the use of force,
accusing the MDC of going "out of their way to effect acts of
violence".


"When they (Western governments) criticise the government when it
tries to prevent violence and punish perpetrators of that
violence, we take the position that they can go hang," Mugabe
said on Thursday after meeting Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
who is trying to mediate in the crisis.


Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said those behind
the violence needed to be identified and then hit with a travel
ban and assets freeze which is already in place against Mugabe
since he allegedly rigged his 2002 presidential election victory
over Tsvangirai.


"What we want to do is identify as accurately as we can the key
people actively involved in the violence over the last few days,"
she said.


Analysts have warned a bigger threat to Mugabe comes not from the
MDC but within the ranks of his own ZANU-PF party which had been
expecting him to stand down at the 2008 elections.


Comments in a weekend interview that he hoped to stand for
another six-year term further inflamed an already volatile
situation in a country where inflation now stands at 1,730
percent and fuel and basic foodstuffs are scare.


There was a show of support on Friday from his deputy president
Joyce Mujuru who Mugabe had formerly annointed as his successor.


In comments published by the state-run Herald newspaper, Mujuru
defended the use of force to deal with revolts against the
government.


"There is need to reaffirm the position of the party to
successfully deal with such insurgencies to safeguard the gains
of our hard-won independence," she said.

