

Australian share prices are expected to face another volatile
week after the market slumped and surged in line with global
bourses on jitters about the US economy, dealers said Friday.


They said investors will be keeping one eye on overseas markets
for their leads, especially with the US Federal Reserve ending
Wednesday amid growing concerns at problems in the US housing
market.


The fear is that if the fallout from growing mortgage defaults
hits US consumer spending, then the wider economy could be in
trouble, which would be bad news for all.


For the week to March 16, the benchmark SP/ASX 200 eked out gain
of 6.1 points or 0.10 percent at 5,836.3 after losing more 2.0
percent on Wednesday in a global markets sell-off sparked by the
US housing lead.


Head of investment strategy and chief economist at AMP Capital
Investors Shane Oliver said Australian and global markets had
endured a rough week but that the volatility may not be over.


"Our assessment remains that it is too early to call the all-
clear for share markets," he said.


"Uncertainty over US and global growth may linger for a while
yet; the crisis in the US mortgage market has further to run;
investor sentiment has yet to reach bearish extremes that
normally signal market bottoms and the last three significant
corrections in global/Australian shares (March/April 2005,
October 2005 and May/June 2006) all lasted about a month or so.


"Nevertheless, our view remains that recent share market weakness
is just another correction in an ongoing bull market."


Oliver said the Australian market remained well above recent lows
and has been helped over the last week by strength in consumer
and health care stocks as well as resources shares bouyed by
strong commodity prices.


Valuations remained reasonable and profit growth was solid, he
said.


"As such, global and Australian share markets are likely to
provide solid gains for the rest of the year, notwithstanding
occasional bouts of volatility like at present," he said.


CommSec chief equities economist Craig James said recent jitters
had dampened celebrations about the bull market's fourth
consecutive year.


"Still, it has been an amazing ride since 2003. The Australian
ASX 200 has lifted by 113 percent with total returns on
Australian shares rising by 148 percent. The world (as judged by
the Morgan Stanley Capital International index) has risen by 105
percent over the same period."


But he said the bull run has not ended.


"Australian sharemarket returns are expected to rise by 13-15
percent over 2007 and similar returns are expected for most major
equity markets."

