

Afghanistan's Taliban movement told AFP Friday it could allow
more time for talks to free an Italian hostage, while a media
report said his driver had already been killed.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo, 52, was kidnapped with two Afghan
colleagues -- a driver and a guide -- in southern Afghanistan on
March 4.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah told AFP last Saturday the
Italian would be killed in seven days unless two captured Taliban
spokesmen were released and Italy set a date for the withdrawal
of its 2,000 troops in Afghanistan.


"The ultimatum is over," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP
by telephone Friday.


However, the Taliban had told "the Italians we are in contact
with" that the deadline could be extended. "We told them if you
request for time via media, we will give you more time," he said.


"There has been some progress in negotiations and if our demands
are accepted, we will release the journalist."


Ahmadi said he was trying to find out the fate of the Afghan
driver.


The independent Pajhwok Afghan News agency cited a man claiming
to be Dadullah's spokesman as saying the driver had already been
killed on charges of being a spy and the fate of the other two
men would be decided at nightfall.


AFP could not independently confirm whether the man, identified
as Shahbuddin Atal, was a spokesman for Dadullah, said to be the
Taliban's operational commander in the south.


An AFP correspondent who has been in contact with Dadullah could
not reach him by telephone Friday to confirm the Pajhwok report.


In a recorded message obtained by Pajhwok on Thursday,
Mastrogiacomo begged for negotiations for his release.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days,"
Mastrogiacomo is heard saying in the poor quality recording,
which was forwarded to AFP.


"Tell them I'm alive. Today is the 13th, and if they fail to do
anything till the 16th, it will create problems for me," the
reporter says.


Pajhwok did not say how it received the tape. In its report it
quoted a Taliban spokesman as saying Dadullah could be heard in
the background ordering the Italian to talk.


Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders said it was appalled by
the report of the driver's killing.


"We appeal again to the Italian authorities and the journalistic
community throughout the world to step up efforts to save the
lives of Mastrogiacomo and his guide, Ajmal," it said in a
statement.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema said Thursday his
government was not negotiating with the Taliban but that there
were "humanitarian sources which maintain the contacts."


Mastrogiacomo's employer, the Rome-based La Repubblica newspaper,
on Thursday made an appeal for the "necessary time" to allows the
negotiations to continue.

