

Worries about the US economy are likely to cast a cloud over
Japanese share prices next week but even so some dealers said
Friday they are optimistic that the market may have found a
bottom for now.


For the week to March 16, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 declined 419.89 points or 2.45 percent to 16,744.15,
giving a loss of 2.80 percent since the start of the year.


The broader-based TOPIX index of all first-section companies shed
53.25 points or 3.08 percent to 1,677.06.


Many stock market strategists have remained unwaveringly
optimistic during the recent global market plunges and this week
is no exception.


"I think stock prices fell to a bottom nearing the 16,600 level
for the Nikkei-225 and it's time for investors to begin to buy
back," said Hiroaki Hiwata, strategist at Toyo Securities.


"There is no serious concern about the domestic economy so
individual investors should come back to the market," he said.


But Hiwata said a shortage of major players as well as some
concerns over the outlook of the US market would cap the upward
movement of share prices.


"Institutional investors will not be able to trade actively as
now is the time to prepare for the end of the financial year this
month," he said.


"Prospects for the US economy are another concern, so some
investors may take a wait-and-see position ahead of the (Federal
Reserve monetary policy) meeting next week," he added.


Hopes that world stock markets were out of the woods were dented
this week after Japanese share prices tumbled 2.92 percent on
Wednesday alone as investors fretting about more signs of trouble
in the US housing market.


Kenichi Azuma, an analyst at Cosmo Securities, was upbeat about
the outlook for Tokyo stock prices next week.


"There is a good chance of seeing the Nikkei aim at higher levels
next week as the market managed to absorb another wave of global
turmoil," he said.


"In general, buying tends to pick up toward the end of March as
investors try to secure dividends by holding shares at this
time," said Azuma. "This trend may help raise shares next week."


On the domestic front, Bank of Japan monetary policymakers gather
on Monday and Tuesday of next week but they are widely expected
to leave interest rates on hold at 0.5 percent after February's
quarter point hike.

