

US plans to install part of a missile shield in Europe, despite
Russian hostility, have accelerated debate at NATO about
developing a similar system, alliance diplomats say.


In a sign of developments, NATO and Russia will discuss the US
shield -- to be set up in Poland, the Czech Republic and the
Caucasus -- in two meetings on April 19 at the level of
ambassadors and technical experts.


"These two meetings of the North Atlantic Council and NATO-Russia
Council are important because experts from capital cities will,
with the 26 ambassadors (27 with Russia), take stock for the
first time," a NATO diplomat told AFP.


Until now, US officials have informed rather than consulted
Russia, which is sceptical about Washington's real intentions,
and the scheme is also reviving old worries in Europe.


"The deployment in Europe of an anti-missile system is raising as
many fundamental questions as nuclear arms did at the time of the
Cold War," a European diplomat said, on condition of anonymity.


"It could, like those times, change the strategic balance and
alter the political climate."


Since January, the United States has been negotiating to build 10
interceptors in Poland to knock down missiles mid-flight at
extremely high altitudes fired by "rogue states" like Iran.


The interceptors, which would not have an explosive war-head,
would home in on information provided by a tracking station in
the Czech Republic, as well as a forward operating radar at an
undisclosed location in the Caucasus.


Last year NATO completed a feasibility study which concluded that
Europe does face the threat of missile attack and that it is
technically possible to build a defence system, but no action has
been taken on it.


The diplomat said the US shield "influences relations across the
Atlantic, relations between NATO and Russia, among the (NATO)
allies themselves, and finally influences the system that NATO is
studying separately."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel insisted again this week that
NATO was the forum to discuss the US plans, but most allies agree
that it is a bilateral matter for the countries involved and not
one to be debated at the alliance.


"There is a procedural problem. First the three countries must
finish their discussions. Then NATO can study the question," a
Spanish diplomat said.


In the meantime, diplomats say, the military alliance should
analyse the ramifications that any future NATO missile shield
might have, and ensure that all 26 member countries are
protected.


Those are the threat analysis, the cost -- estimated at between
20 and 30 billion dollars (15-23 billion euros) -- and the
dangers posed by falling debris or radioactivity, should a
nuclear warhead be hit.


Other issues include how the US shield might be integrated into
NATO's, what the rules of engagement would be and who would have
final responsibility to press the launch button.


All these factors have made NATO extremely cautious about how it
moves ahead because, as well as annoying Moscow, there could be
important fallout if the system is "badly sold" to the public.


Some alliance members, Norway and Canada among them, have opposed
making statements about the feasibility study for fear of
panicking their publics, diplomats told AFP.


That was one of the reasons that NATO leaders quietly ordered in
November a "general analysis" of the political and military
implications of such a project, which will be discussed by
alliance defence ministers in June.


This approach has annoyed countries like Britain and Denmark,
which are already hosting part of the US system.


"It's a question that is dividing the alliance," one diplomat
conceded, adding that "in the months to come we will have to make
sure that no stone is left unturned" in this debate.

