

After admitting he is widely disliked, Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert fought for political survival on Friday as he
struggled to make good on a promise to continue serving the
country.


In a rare confession by a leader considered to be a slickl
operator, Olmert conceded to supporters of his Kadima party on
Thursday that he was "very unpopular" -- but he still vowed to
stay in power.


"I know that I am a very unpopular prime minister. Polls, the
opposition and its leader (Benjamin) Netanyahu say so regularly,
and even among you there are some who also say it," Olmert told
members of the centrist Kadima in Peta Tikva, north of Tel Aviv.


In recent days the Israeli media have highlighted Olmert's
spiralling approval ratings with photographs comparing the
demoralised and gaunt-faced Olmert of today with pictures from
just eight months ago, showing a beaming prime minister flushed
with the success of his election victory.


Widely regarded as a savvy political operative, Olmert pleadged
to party loyalists he would use his political acumen to fight
back from dismal poll results showing that just two percent of
Israelis trust him.


"I think it's true, and that I am indeed an unpopular premier.
But I am also an old political fox," he said to applause.


"I know very well how I could have been popular," he added,
defending his economic policies, his handling of last year's
34-day war against Hezbollah, and his "total engagement in the
affairs of the state" of Israel.


"Every day I get up to do my work, and that work is the state of
Israel. That's why I was elected. Politics is an assault course,
and the truth counts more than popularity... I will continue this
work for a long time," he said.


Despite mounting discontent from the media, public and even
within his own party ranks, Olmert still has a comfortable
78-seat majority in the 120-member parliament.


It is still too early to pen his epitaph, the Haaretz newspaper
said on Friday.


Olmert told the party gathering that "I have nothing to hide,"
referring to a series of financial scandals in which he has been
implicated.


He also called for an end to persistent rumours over the findings
in the upcoming report of the commission of inquiry headed by
retired judge Eliahu Winograd about the conduct of the war in
Lebanon.


The high-level commission, appointed by Olmert to deflect public
anger over the war, said on Tuesday that its interim report will
assess the prime minister's personal responsibility, as well as
that of Defence Minister Amir Peretz and former army chief of
staff General Dan Halutz who has already resigned.


The commission's partial findings may not be published until
April and its conclusions are yet to be written, but newspapers
said Kadima is already preparing for Olmert's possible
resignation amid demands by opposition opposition leaders for
snap polls.


The Jerusalem Post predicted Olmert would be forced to quit after
the commission issues its report.


His speech did little to placate the Israeli media, which have
upped the pressure on the premier as his support has flagged.


"It is doubtful whether there is a word today that can be said, a
sentence that will penetrate the hearts, a speech that will make
an impression, which can help Olmert change his standing or
lengthen his term of office," a senior writer for Israel's Yediot
Aharnot daily wrote.


"The Kadima members embraced Olmert yesterday with one hand, and
with the other they held knives behind their backs."

