

Sir Alex Ferguson has insisted that there is no 'desperation' on
Manchester United's part over contract talks with Cristiano
Ronaldo, despite signs Real Madrid have embarked on a fullscale
offensive aimed at luring the winger to Spain.


Ronaldo confirmed earlier this month that he is ready to thrash
out a new deal at Old Trafford that could tie him to the
Premiership outfit until 2012.


Spanish giants Real and Barcelona have both expressed an
intention to fight it out for the Portuguese winger this summer
and Spanish press reports have suggested that the 22-year-old is
ready for a move.


But United manager Ferguson claims that club and player are both
on course to settle negotiations over a deal which is likely to
see Ronaldo join 100,000-pound-a-week star Rio Ferdinand as
United's top earner.


Ferguson said: "Negotiations are on-going with Cristiano and
that's the way it is. It is the same with all the top players.


"We have got our idea of what we want, Ronaldo and his agent have
their idea, but with negotiations you eventually come together
with something that satisfies both parties and a deal is
concluded and agreed.


"We have already got him contracted until 2010 anyway, so there
is no desperation on our part. Everything is amicable and I am
confident.


"Ronaldo knows that we want him to sign and we have spoken to his
people and they say that he is happy here, so we want to get him
contracted until 2012.


"He is at the right club. He is 22, he has developed since he has
been here and there has never been a time when he hasn't enjoyed
it."


Premiership leaders United face local rivals Bolton Wanderers at
Old Trafford on Saturday with Wayne Rooney the only fully fit
striker available to Ferguson.


Henrik Larsson has now returned to his Swedish club Helsingborgs
following the end of his two-month loan spell, while Louis Saha
and Ole-Gunnar Solskjaer are both set to be sidelined until the
end of month due to injury.


But despite the pressure being placed on Rooney's shoulders,
Ferguson insists that the England striker is more than capable of
delivering the goods.


He said: "Wayne has been working his socks off in recent games.
He has a great attitude and you can see that his confidence is
coming back.


"Some of his play against Middlesbrough last week was terrific,
but he is so young and players like Wayne and Ronaldo are the
type that are ready to play every day of the week and we are
lucky to have them on our side.


"I'm sure that Wayne isn't worried by the striker situation,
though. We're obviously sorry to lose Henrik Larsson, but
Solskjaer and Saha will soon be back.


"Wayne's contribution can sometimes be overlooked, but we have
analysed videos this week and some of his movement has been
fantastic.


"Just like every striker, he wants to score goals, but he gives
us more than that anyway."


Ferguson admits that United must claim three points on Saturday
in order to keep in-form Chelsea at arm's length in the race for
the title.


He said: "This is a very important, massive game for us.


"We are six points clear of Chelsea with a fantastic goal
difference, but we can only look at ourselves and do what is in
front of us.


"The players have shown the composure they need to do that and
they certainly have the guts and determination to do it."


The Scot said Ferdinand would play against Bolton, denying
reports that the England centreback had cracked a rib.

