

Trade unions from across the world met in Paris on Friday in a
show of unity to call for a clampdown on "cold-blooded"
investment funds which they see as a serious and growing threat
to companies and jobs.


"We are looking at the feasibility of an international response
that includes information and consultation rights for workers and
appropriate regulation and taxation by governments," the unions
said in a statement.


Calls for tougher regulation of hedge funds, a trillion-dollar
industry that has grown rapidly in recent years, have mounted in
recent months. Concern has also grown because ostensibly
conservative pension funds have joined the rush to invest in
hedge funds despite their secretive trading practices.


The value of corporate acquisitions by investment funds hit a
record global total of nearly 600 billion dollars (455 billion
euros) in 2006, over half of which were chalked up in the United
States, up a hefty 70 percent from 350 billion dollars in 2005.


"Amid the spectacular growth of private equity deals and
investment by hedge funds ... union concern has mounted at the
employment impact of buy-outs by what are often shadowy investors
using borrowed money," said the unions meeting in Paris on
Friday.


Union leaders from the European Trade Confederation, the
International Trade Union Confederation, and others from the
United States, Canada and Japan, were attending the event at the
headquarters of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development.


Damon Silvers, of the American Federation of Labor and Congress
of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), said that after buying out
a company a private equity fund usually wants to sell it on three
to five years later.


"They cut jobs and stop investment in the productive capacity of
the company and that has long-term negative consequences for the
people," he warned.


"The workers who face this kind of buy-out must understand that
the kind of employers they are dealing with is a particulary
'cold-blooded variety' that may not play by the rules that they
have understood employers to play by in the past," he said.


Peter Rossman of the IUF, an international union for workers in
the food, agricultural, hotel, catering and tobacco industries,
gave the example of Britain's Automobile Association (AA), a
roadside car-repair company.


It was bought last year by the private equity firm Permira.


"They have quickly eliminated close of one third of all the jobs,
3,500 jobs exactly (out of 13,000)," he said. "The employees have
been pressed to work more hours, to the point that last December,
the company declared that there will be no vacation time for
employees until March."


And on top of all that, he said, "there has been a noticable
decrease in the quality of the service."


Silvers of the AFL-CIO warned that there was much concern in
United States about whether hedge funds were "contributing to a
short-term mentality in the managment of American business that
in the end make us less able to compete in the world economy
where complexity and long term thinking are extraordinary
important."


US Treasury officials said last month that hedge funds did not
require fresh regulation.


In Europe, Nicolas Sarkozy, the rightwing candidate leading the
polls for France's April-May presidential elections, said last
month that if elected he would seek a European tax on
"speculative movements" by entities such as hedge funds.


"Who can tolerate a hedge fund buying a company with debts,
firing 25 percent of staff and then reimbursing them by selling
it in pieces? Not me," he said in an interview.


Finance ministers from the Group of Seven rich nations last month
debated the risks to the global financial system posed by hedge
funds and urged greater vigilance of the industry.

