

In under a decade, Ferrari-driving maverick tycoon Takafumi Horie
built one of Japan's top Internet empires with a brash business
style that earned him stardom but few friends in the
establishment.


The 34-year-old Livedoor founder, who was sentenced Friday to two
and a half years in jail for financial fraud, revelled in
thumbing his nose at the establishment during his meteoric ascent
as a leading Internet star.


Few in the corporate old guard will be crying into their sake at
news of his tough prison sentence, which capped a dramatic fall
from grace for the chubby, spiky-haired whizkid.


The university drop-out, who once boasted he could take over
Sony, has been criticised by some traditional managers for
following a ruthless, Wall Street style of capitalism.


Along with another fallen corporate agitator, the fund manager
Yoshiaki Murakami, he symbolised a new way of doing business,
bringing hostile takeover bids to a nation that has traditionally
avoided corporate confrontation.


Affectionately nicknamed 'Horie-mon' by the public after a
Japanese cartoon cat robot, the erstwhile tycoon once declared:
"All the evils come from aged business managers" and "I will kill
newspapers and television."


"Definitely his flamboyant lifestyle, his razzing of the fusty
business establishment, did him no favours," said Professor
Jeffrey Kingston, director of Asian Studies at Temple University
in Tokyo.


"Because of what he did, he exposed problems in the regulatory
system which I believe are being addressed," Kingston said,
describing Horie as an "inadvertent reformer".


Horie, 34, built Livedoor by buying up companies from financial
services to real estate to publishing.


He tried to take over the nation's most watched TV network and to
buy a baseball team. Both bids failed -- but earned him more
valuable publicity.


The tycoon was even tapped by then prime minister Junichiro
Koizumi to run for parliament.


But his bid for Fuji television also angered many in the
corporate old guard, who labelled him a corporate raider.


News of his arrest sent the Tokyo stock market briefly into
freefall last year, forcing Asia's largest bourse to close early
for the first time ever as a flood of sell orders threatened to
swamp the computer system.


Horie took corporate Japan aback by wearing a T-shirt as he
negotiated with older men in suits, and by complaining loudly of
being bored with the business world's slow decision-making.


He wrote several books on how to be a successful entrepreneur and
make a fortune -- providing ammunition for critics who charge he
is motivated purely by greed.


He was a member of the "Roppongi Hills tribe," an elite circle of
rich young entrepreneurs who work and play in a glitzy modern
residential and business complex towering over central Tokyo.


And after steadfastly maintaining his innocence, the fallen
Internet star defied convention to the bitter end with a rare
not-guilty plea in a country which has a near 100-percent
conviction rate.

