

The new Palestinian unity government provides a "golden
opportunity" for lasting peace in the Middle East, but will be
scuppered by Western powers and Israel, Gulf Arab media said on
Friday.


Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas and Palestinian prime
minister-designate Ismail Haniya on Thursday finalised an
agreement on a national unity government combining their rival
Fatah and Hamas factions.


The Saudi daily Al-Watan greeted the deal with optimism, saying
it gave Israel "a golden opportunity to achieve a lasting and
comprehensive peace in the region."


Peace, based on Israel's withdrawal from Arab lands seized in the
1967 war, is now possible because the new government "represents
the overwhelming majority of the Palestinian people and is in a
position to deliver on any commitments required by a peace deal,"
the paper wrote.


Arab leaders are due to hold a summit in the Saudi capital,
Riyadh at the end of the month. The paper said the Arab League is
expected to re-endorse a plan agreed in 2002 that would recognise
Israel and establish normal ties with her in return for a full
Israeli withdrawal to the June 4, 1967 borders.


Al-Watan said US hunger for foreign policy success following its
failure in Iraq, coupled with Europe's renewed appetite for
diplomacy in the region, boost prospects for lasting peace.


But a note a scepticism was struck elsewhere in oil-rich Gulf
region.


The United Arab Emirates' Al-Khaleej predicted both Israel and
Western nations would seek to derail the Hamas-Fatah cabinet.


Israel would attempt to keep the Palestinian government "busy
with its differences" by allowing some ministers to carry out
their job while hindering others, the newspaper said.


The United States would exacerbate disputes inside the
Palestinian government "through its demands that serve Israeli
goals," and the European Union would impose debilitating
conditions, the newspaper added.


The paper counseled the unity government to concentrate on day-
to-day political affairs until it formulates a "unified
programme" that would end Israeli occupation and recover
Palestinian rights.

