

Singapore will invest more than 110 million US dollars to develop
a "clean energy" industry with solar energy as a key area of
research, the government announced Friday.


The tropical island-state with average temperatures of 26.8
Celsius (80 Fahrenheit) is hoping that the five-year programme
will generate more than a billion dollars in annual value-added
income and create 7,000 jobs by 2015.


The programme was announced at the close of a Research Innovation
and Enterprise Council meeting chaired by Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong.


"Green energy or clean energy is something which is in great
demand worldwide because of climate change. Growth is dramatic,"
Lee told reporters.


"There is a lot of investment going in around the world, in
America, including Silicon Valley," he said. "And we believe this
is an area where technology will move and the market
opportunities will grow and investments are likely to come."


The term "clean energy" refers to energy derived from
environmentally-friendly and renewable sources such as solar
power, biofuels and wind, as opposed to oil and gas.


Lee said international investors had already expressed interest
in joining the programme.


"This whole process from the research part to the manufacturing
part to the economic part are areas that we already have basic
capabilities (in) because we have developed our scientific know-
how to support our manufacturing industry in Singapore," he said.


The research council's other key research programmes include
biomedical sciences, environmental and water technologies and
interactive and digital media.


The council also announced initiatives to attract more foreign
scientists to do research work in Singapore.


"To transform Singapore into a knowledge-intensive economy, we
have to build up our capabilities, enhance our competencies in
existing technologies," Lee said.


"This means strengthening our human capital in (research and
development) by grooming local research talents and attracting
top-rate scientists to work here."

