

Unions and politicians in Germany voiced their opposition Friday
to the massive restructuring plans at European aircraft maker
Airbus at the start of a day of protests across Europe.


At a news conference ahead of a demonstration by some 10,000
Airbus workers in the centre of Hamburg, the powerful IG Metall
labour union vowed to resist the plans.


"We cannot accept the plan that's been put forward," said IG
Metall chief Juergen Peters.


It was "unacceptable that competence is being lost" with the
axeing of 3,700 jobs in Germany, he said at a joint news
conference with leading political figures from the region.


The opponents to Airbus's "Power8" restructuring plans demand
that all of the plane maker's German sites be maintained and
their future secured by way of investment.


Christian Wulff, the regional premier of the state of Lower
Saxony where two of the sites affected are based, suggested that
the plans were conceptually flawed and he expressed solidarity
with the workers and his confidence in Airbus's "European
future."


Under the plans, Airbus, a unit of EADS, is to axe 10,000 jobs
across Europe, with 3,700 German jobs on the line and the sale or
partial sale of three plants in Varel, Laupheim and Nordenham.


At Laupheim in south Germany, more than 2,000 employers and
sympathisers formed a human chain around the factory as part of
their protest.


German union representatives signalled their willingness to
negotiate with management.


"We will present (Airbus chief) Louis Gallois with a catalogue of
questions," said Ruediger Luetjen, head of Airbus's German works
council. And employee representatives would team up with
politicians to draw up concepts for saving the plants, he said.


Hamburg's economy and labour senator Gunnar Uldall complained
that French politicians and unions had "turned Airbus into a
national project. We have to do the same, via political and media
support."


The head of IG Metall's northern branch, Jutta Blankau, insisted,
however, that there was good cooperation between the German and
French Airbus unions.

