

People who suffer from fragmented sleep due to a condition called
obstructive sleep apnea are at increased risk for subtle,
creeping brain damage, according to a Japanese study published in
the US.


In a small study involving 65 men, researchers at the Showa
University School of Medicine in Tokyo found the men with
moderate to severe obstructive apnea had significantly more
lesions on brain scans than those who had mild or no sleep
disorders.


The men with the greatest sleep disturbance also had
significantly elevated markers for inflammation and blood
clotting compared with the other men in the study.


The higher rates of inflammation and blood platelet activity,
which correlated closely with oxygen deficiency, may explain why
these men had more brain damage, the Japanese researchers said.


People who suffer from obstructive sleep apnea wake up repeatedly
during the night because of a blocked airway, preventing them
from reaching the deep, refreshing stages of slumber. Some
sufferers endure 100 or more arousals a night.


Previous research has shown that people with the disorder are at
higher risk for high blood pressure and stroke, but this study
reveals the sub-clinical or "silent" cerebrovascular damage that
may precede a major event such as a stroke.


However, the investigative team also showed that a treatment with
a CPAP machine lowered the levels of inflammation and blood
clotting.


Tests on 24 volunteers with moderate to severe apnea, who used a
CPAP machine for three months, showed they had significantly
lower levels of C-reactive protein, the marker for systemic
inflammation, and two other platelet-activating proteins.


A CPAP machine supplies continuous airway pressure by means of an
air compressor attached to a mask.


"CPAP may be an important intervention for decreasing the stroke
risk in this susceptible population of obstructive sleep apnea
patients," said Kenji Minoguchi, the lead author of the paper
which appears in Thursday's issue of the American Journal of
Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine.

