

Pakistani authorities ordered an inquiry Friday after policemen
smashed up the offices of a television and newspaper group during
protests over the sacking of the country's chief justice.


Television footage showed riot police in helmets entering the
office of private Geo Television in Islamabad and breaking
windows. The channel said police also "manhandled" its staff.


"We have ordered an inquiry into this very unfortunate incident,"
Information Minister Mohammad Ali Durrani told AFP. "The
government believes in the freedom of the press."


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao however said activists from an
Islamic group grabbed a policeman and took him into the Geo
building.


"The police chased those miscreants in order to recover the
police constable," Sherpao told AFP. "It was not an attack on
Geo, it was not an attack on the media."


The incident came a day after Geo said Pakistani regulators had
ordered it to stop airing its flagship daily news programme
"Today with Kamran Khan" until further orders.


"The police damaged our infrastructure. This attack on the
freedom of the press is unprecedented in the 60-year history of
this country," Khan, who presents the programme, said after the
police incident on Friday.


The offices of The News, an English language-daily, and the Urdu-
language Jang, which are both part of the same media group as
Geo, were also damaged, sources at the group said.


Another channel and an international watchdog accused the
government of fresh attempts to censor their coverage of the row
over Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry, who was sacked by
President Pervez Musharraf on March 16.


"We have been told not to make Chaudhry a hero and to avoid undue
coverage of lawyers' protests," said Talat Hussain, head of the
news section of Aaj television, another private station.


"We are working under tremendous pressure. We are being
threatened with being taken off air or even with the cancellation
of our licence if we give undue coverage to the chief justice
trial," Hussain said.


Irfan Ahmed, a cable operator in the southern port city of
Karachi, said he had been told to "cut off news channels which
violate the instructions."


Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders this week slammed
Pakistan for allegedly suspending broadcasts by Geo and Aaj after
they screened footage on Monday of clashes between police and
lawyers.


The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ)
denounced the government's moves.


"We call on President Musharraf to live up to his stated
commitment to freedom of the press and stop what appears to be
retaliation against Geo TV for critical coverage," said Bob
Dietz, CPJ's Asia programme coordinator.

