

Japan on Friday deployed its first ballistic missile defence
system managed by its own military amid concerns over North
Korea, which tested missiles and an atom bomb last year.


The United States last year installed Japan's first anti-missile
system, but the interceptors deployed Friday were the first
installed by Japan on its own.


Two Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) surface-to-air
interceptors were installed early Friday at Japan's Iruma air
force base north of Tokyo, a defence ministry spokesman said.


The ministry plans to deploy the US-developed PAC-3s, which can
cover a 20-kilometre (12-mile) radius, at a total of 11 bases in
eastern and western Japan by March 2011.


The ministry deployed the launchers, designed to protect the
capital Tokyo, earlier than initially scheduled in response to
North Korea's launch of missiles in July and its nuclear test in
October.


"We had initially planned to complete the deployment by March
next year, but we accelerated the plan following North Korea's
missile launch," the spokesman said.


It was Japan's first deployment of a ballistic missile
interceptor since the nation became officially pacifist following
its defeat in World War II.


The United States separately deployed its own ballistic missile
system last year on Japan's southern island of Okinawa, raising
protests among some local leaders opposed to the US troop
presence.


Japan and the United States started working on a more advanced
missile shield after North Korea in 1998 fired a missile over
Japan's main island.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has championed a greater military
role for Japan, agreed to step up work on missile defence when he
met with US President George W. Bush in November, their first
meeting since Abe took office.


Last week, the Japanese government approved emergency response
guidelines that will allow the armed forces to fire interceptor
missiles without the prime minister's prior approval.


The new guidelines will allow the defence minister to order the
interception of incoming ballistic missiles.

