

Japan on Friday reported the first fall in consumer prices for 10
months as it struggles to defeat its decade-old deflation
scourge, further dousing prospects of a near-term interest rate
rise.


Core consumer prices, which exclude volatile prices of fresh
food, fell by 0.1 percent in February compared with a year
earlier, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
said.


Overall consumer prices declined 0.2 percent. Both were down for
the first time since April last year.


The return to negative inflation -- which had been expected by
economists after a cooling of world oil prices -- came after the
Bank of Japan raised its super low interest rates to 0.5 percent
in February as part of efforts to put monetary policy on a more
conventional base.


Richard Jerram, chief economist at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo,
said it would be difficult for the central bank to justify
raising interest rates again while consumer prices are falling.


"It looks as if you should see negative numbers (for consumer
price changes) running through much of this year," he said,
predicting that the BoJ would have to lower its inflation
forecasts next month.


"It suggests that monetary policy is too tight and that must be
having a drag on the domestic revival," Jerram said.


The core consumer price index (CPI) for Tokyo alone -- a leading
indicator for nationwide price trends -- pointed to a continued
easing of consumer prices, dropping by 0.1 percent in March from
a year earlier.


Investors were unfazed, however, with the benchmark Nikkei-225
index up 0.43 percent by lunch, tracking Wall Street higher after
an upgrade to US economic growth.


Japan also reported a 0.2 percent fall in industrial output in
February versus January but this was enough to beat market
expectations for a 0.6 percent decline. Year-on-year, production
was up 2.6 percent.


Looking ahead, manufacturers forecast 1.5 percent growth in
industrial production in March and a 1.3 percent gain in April.


Meanwhile average monthly household spending rose 1.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, the government said.


The unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.0 percent while the
total number of unemployed dipped by 70,000 to 2.7 million in
February.


Asia's largest economy had been trapped in a deflationary spiral
since the late 1990s but is now in the midst of its longest
sustained recovery since World War II.


The Bank of Japan in February doubled its key interest rates to
0.5 percent, the first rise since last July when it ended its
highly unorthodox policy of virtually free credit.


Government ministers have urged the central bank not to tighten
monetary policy too quickly for fear of tipping the economy back
into deflation.


But central bank governor Toshihiko Fukui has made clear his
desire to raise Japan's low interest rates, which he says may
store up trouble for the future. He says consumer prices remain
broadly positive despite the recent downturn.


Economists said it was hard to say whether Japan was yet out of
deflation because consumer prices are falling again even as asset
prices rise, with the value of Japanese land up for the first
time in 16 years.


"It is a very interesting situation because we have asset
inflation and price deflation going hand in hand," said Noriko
Hama, a professor at the Doshisha Business School in Kyoto.


"In this world of globalised competition, companies still remain
in a very weak bargaining position in terms of price setting,"
she added.

