

Hotels have hiked their rates, bars have ordered in extra stocks
and planes are disgorging rugby fans from all over the world as
Hong Kong prepares for the biggest event of its social calendar,
the Hong Kong Sevens.


More than just a sporting extravaganza, The Sevens, which starts
Friday, is a weekend-long party and a goldmine for local
businesses.


"This is without doubt the biggest weekend of the year -- it's
even bigger than Christmas," said Toby Cooper, manager of The
Globe, a popular bar in the downtown SoHo district.


"It gets bigger each year," Cooper added. "People have started
coming here early and making their Sevens drinking holidays last
all week."


Since the first tournament in 1976, the Hong Kong Sevens has
grown into a major sporting event that makes up part of the
International Rugby Board's annual sevens competition.


This year 24 teams from around the world will compete for the
trophy over three days of rugby, including title holders England
and favourites Fiji.


If the level of competition on the field has intensified over the
years, competition to cash in on Sevens fever off the field has
gone off the chart.


Bars and restaurants pull out all the stops to win the custom of
thousands of sports fans who gather for the weekend and
authorities close off streets in the city's bar districts to
accommodate them.


The potential riches to be earned from the Sevens are huge.


A study by Hong Kong Polytechnic University found that during the
2006 event, 40,000 fans spent some 25.4 million Hong Kong dollars
(3.5 million US dollars) -- an average of 635 dollars each -- on
food and drink inside the stadium alone.


By comparison, it found, those who attended the Hong Kong Open
golf that year spent an average of 154 dollars.


Outside the stadium, the Hong Kong Tourism Board estimates some
500 million dollars will be pumped into the local economy by
revellers.


It's not just for rugby's traditional beer-loving ordinary fans,
however. The Sevens has also become a major corporate event, a
chance to wine and dine and impress clients.


"It's big business for the whole town," Ilona Yim, communications
manager for the Island Shangri-La, one of the city's top five-
star hotels, which has sold out over the Sevens weekend.


"Companies hold their conferences in the week before the
competition and the Sevens becomes an incentive event at the end
of it," she added.


Increased demand for rooms during the weekend has allowed the
Shangri-La, like practically all hotels, to hike its rates.


A harbour-view room that would normally go for 3,600 Hong Kong
dollars a night sells for 4,500 dollars this weekend.


The corporate nature of the tournament is noticeable all around
town, with sponsors airline Cathay Pacific and financial house
Credit Suisse both raising their profile in adverts and
billboards.


Within Hong Kong Stadium, where the matches are played, the
world's largest companies jostle for advertising space while
banks and financial services fill the corporate boxes.


Corporations are apportioned a large share of the 40,000 ticket
allocation, with just 6,000 of the three-day passes made
available on general sale.


They were snapped up within hours of going on sale in mid-
December, bought by hardy fans who had camped out overnight.


Most tickets are sold overseas through travel packages or via
rugby clubs both in and outside Hong Kong, meaning the best way
for local fans to join in is to join a club.


Thousands of others lose out though. "Every year it gets worse,"
said Sean O'Meara, 45, an expatriate Irish advertising executive
who claims to have been to every Sevens up to 2002.


"Then it changed and the big businesses started getting tickets.
It means the real fans like me can't get in any more," added
O'Meara, who said he would be forced to watch this weekend's
matches on TV in his local pub.

