

Qatari voters appeared apathetic ahead of Sunday's municipal
elections in the gas-rich Gulf state as it awaits its first-ever
partial legislative polls, expected to be held some time this
year.


Electoral centres housed in large tents were almost empty, amid
calm debates and uninspiring speeches, ahead of elections for the
capital's municipal council -- the sole local government in the
tiny country.


"Certainly, attendance is very weak in some districts, but
excellent in others. Most importantly, these debates are a good
exercise and a progressive practice for democracy," said the vice
president of the emirate's electoral commission, Sheikh Khaled
bin Jabr al-Thani.


Others were less optimistic.


"Enthusiasm is nil among a large number of citizens," said Yussef
Mohammad Darwish, editor of Al-Raya newspaper. "Disappointment is
a common factor among the candidates and voters because of the
absence of confidence in the council's role."


His Al-Raya paper organised two dozen evenings in a gigantic tent
where candidates were invited to present their platforms and
field questions from potential voters. Most often, people did not
turn up.


Darwish said that the highest turnout was around 50 people, who
showed up to listen to three female candidates out of a total of
118 hopefuls.


More than 28,000 eligible voters have registered to vote in the
wealthy state, which has an indigenous population of 174,000 out
of a total of 750,000 inhabitants.


In the 2003 municipal polls, 38 percent of 24,125 registered
voters took part. Some 22,000 voters registered for the first-
ever ballot held in 1999.


"Voters increase, turnout decreases," said a banner headline in
the English daily Qatar Tribune.


"The enthusiasm died down not just among voters but among
candidates themselves," it said, adding that loss of trust in
members of the Central Municipal Council (CMC) seemed to be the
main reason behind voter apathy.


Less than a third of the CMC's recommendations have been
addressed by the authorities concerned, said Fahd bin Abderrahman
al-Thani, a professor of geopolitics and a lawyer.


"This caused embarrassment to the representatives of 29
constituencies in front of voters," he added.


But in a country anticipating its first partial legislative
ballot this year, many Qataris do not hide their hope of having a
more representative assembly.


Asked about the date of the legislative polls, Sheikh Khaled said
that some "laws which complement the constitution are not ready
yet," but stressed that they will take place "in the near
future".


In June 2005, Qatar, a close US ally, adopted a constitution for
the first time since independence from Britain in 1971,
establishing democratic reforms in a country long ruled by an
absolute monarchy.


The constitution clears the way for the separation of the
executive, legislative and judiciary branches. It provides for
legislative power to be vested in a Shura (consultative) Council
made up of 45 members, two-thirds of whom would be elected and
the rest appointed by the emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-
Thani.


Current Shura members are all appointed by the ruler.


The Al-Thani family has been dominant in Qatar -- a peninsula
bordering Saudi Arabia that is abundant in natural gas and oil --
since the mid-1800s, and until now has retained absolute control
over all aspects of government.

