

Japan reported Friday its first fall in consumer prices for 10
months as the world's second-largest economy struggles to defeat
its decade-old deflation scourge.


Core consumer prices, which exclude volatile prices of fresh
food, fell by 0.1 percent in February from a year earlier, the
Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications said.


Overall consumer prices declined by 0.2 percent in February from
a year earlier. Both were down for the first time since April
last year.


The return to negative core inflation -- which had been expected
by economists after a cooling of world oil prices -- came as the
Bank of Japan raised its super low interest rates to 0.5 percent
last month.


The core consumer price index (CPI) for Tokyo alone -- the
leading indicator for national price trends -- pointed to a
continued easing of consumer prices, dropping by 0.1 percent in
March from a year earlier.


Meanwhile, Japan's industrial output fell 0.2 percent in February
from the previous month, beating market expectations for a 0.6
percent decline, the government reported.


On a brighter note, average monthly household spending rose 1.3
percent in February from a year earlier, while the unemployment
rate remained unchanged at 4.0 percent.


The total number of unemployed dipped by 70,000 from a year
earlier to 2.7 million in February, the Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications said.


The Bank of Japan in February raised its key interest rates by a
quarter-point to 0.5 percent, the first increase since last July
when it ended its highly unorthodox policy of virtually free
credit.


Asia's largest economy had been trapped in a deflationary spiral
since the late 1990s but is now in the midst of its longest
sustained recovery since World War II.


Even so government ministers have urged the central bank not to
tighten monetary policy too quickly for fear of tipping the
economy back into deflation.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has previously said that core
consumer prices may show small year-on-year dips depending on the
impact of falling oil prices, but that the general trend for
inflation remains positive.

