

Rugby legend Jonah Lomu, back in the city where he first made his
name, said he was delighted just to be playing despite seeing his
brilliant career tragically curtailed by illness.


The former All Black, 31, said his appearance at a 10-a-side
tournament in Hong Kong had confounded doctors who warned him
never to play again after his 2004 kidney transplant.


"I was professionally told I would not play again, and here I
am," he said.


"Specialists told me to retire or I would be in a wheelchair, and
I am playing rugby, so it's great.


"I had not touched a ball since last year so it's good to get on
the pitch and get knocked around about a bit. Now I just want to
continue playing."


Lomu, who first turned heads at the Hong Kong Sevens and shot to
worldwide fame at the 1995 World Cup, astonished medical experts
and fans by returning to top- class rugby in Wales only a year
after his transplant.


But continuing problems associated with his rare kidney disorder,
and a series of other injuries, have taken their toll.


Any ambitions Lomu had of appearing in this year's World Cup in
France were dashed when he failed to secure a Super 14 contract,
and his future remains uncertain.


After his brief appearance for the New Zealand Legends in the
Hong Kong Football Club Tens tournament, Lomu said he had
survived the workout in good order.


"It has been great," he said. "I was only asked three weeks ago,
and I feel all right afterwards. I like to play with all the
emerging young talent.


"And it was in Hong Kong where it all started for me, so this is
a special place.


"Many coaches would never have seen me without the Hong Kong
Sevens, which is still a great stepping stone for people who want
to be spotted."


The hulking Lomu was an 18-year-old unknown when he first
appeared here in 1994, helping New Zealand to the first in a hat-
trick of Hong Kong Sevens wins.


He soon progressed to the All Blacks, for whom he starred at the
1995 World Cup. The next year he was diagnosed with nephrotic
syndrome, but he fought back to play in the 1999 World Cup.


In all he made 73 appearances for the full New Zealand side.


Lomu refused to dwell on the lost years of his career, or the
fact that he will be in France in September only as a spectator.


"The World Cup is full of memories that I cherish," he said.


"Of course I'm happy to go as a supporter of the All Blacks. New
Zealand seem to be favourites but rugby is a funny game.


"It could go any way, and we are too far out from the tournament
to predict the winner at this stage.


"South Africa are showing good form while Australia always turn
up for the big games and you can't rule out the English or the
French.


"New Zealand had a good year last year but I think they realise
they now have to make a new start. I hope the All Blacks win. The
team definitely has a great chance."


As for his own playing days, he said: "No teams are making
arrangements until after the World Cup. I have some plans but we
will see what teams are looking for players."

