

Being two tenths faster over a year in track cycling's blue
riband event of the sprint may not seem a lot.


But for Victoria Pendleton, one of Britain's gold medals hopes
for the 2008 Beijing Olympics, it is a positive sign of her
emergence as one of the world's fastest over the final 200 metres
of the tactical sprint event.


Pendleton, who only began track competition in 2002, won the
world title in 2005 in Los Angeles but had to settle for silver
in 2006 when Belarussian Natalia Tsylinskaya's experience and
power proved enough for the gold.


But going into Friday's tournament here at the world track
championships, Pendleton could hold the psychological edge.


On Thursday's opening day, helped by 18-year-old former BMX star
Shanaze Reade, she grabbed one of two gold medals for Britain, in
the women's inaugural team sprint event.


Given Pendleton's recent performances - winning the sprint,
keirin and 500 metre time trial at the Manchester leg of the
World Cup - she has every right to feel confident.


However she knows it will not be easy.


"It's the worst event in the world as far as pressure is
concerned. It's a one- on-one battle all day," said Pendleton,
who has nevertheless been making giant strides towards her goal
of world and Olympic gold.


The 26-year-old Englishwoman has increased the workload in the
weights room which is vital to sprint event trackies, and she has
also been working with retired German track great Jan van Eijden.


Van Eijden's experience could prove crucial, and will also be
handy in the keirin, which could give her another chance of a
medal chance in China next year.


However it is the 0.20sec improvement that has given Pendleton
the biggest boost in her bid to beat the likes of Tsylinskaya,
Australia's Anna Meares and emerging Chinese ace Shuang Guo in
the sprint, in which riders are timed over the last 200 metres.


"It is a bigger jump than I made last year from the year before.
At Palma I am hoping to post a quicker time than I have in recent
Worlds and move myself up the ranking," she said.


The women's 500 metre is also held on Friday, but despite her
strengths her bid for sprint gold means she has been forced to
pull out of the time trial event.


Tsylinskaya beat Meares, the reigning world record holder and
Olympic champion, to the 500 metre title last year when Pendleton
missed the bronze by 0.005sec.


Meares, like Pendleton, has also been working on her tactical
prowess in the sprint and is a potential rival for the Briton, as
is China's Shuang Guo, who took bronze in both the sprint and
keirin last year.


The 23-year-old Meares fought her way through a tough World Cup
sprint competition at Los Angeles in January to finally win ahead
of France's Clara Sanchez.


Meares, whose older sister Kerrie recently pushed her into second
for the Australian national sprint title, has also recently
posted a personal best for the sprint.


Like Pendleton, she has knocked nearly 0.20sec off her previous
best. And with Kristine Bayley, she won the bronze in the women's
team sprint on Thursday.

