

Nearly 400 people have been killed over the past three days in
violence-wracked Iraq as insurgents and sectarian militias rip
through a much-touted US security crackdown concentrated in
Baghdad.


A series of coordinated bombings of Shiite marketplaces in and
north of the capital flouted a latest plea from embattled Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki for a joint effort to curb the bloodshed
threatening to tear his country apart.


"The country is facing many challenges which need a consolidated
front in which all Iraqis must participate," Maliki said just
hours before 125 people were killed in marketplace bombings in
Baghdad and the Shiite town of Khalis.


Although US and Iraqi officials claim violence has fallen in
Baghdad where nearly 80,000 troops are deployed to curb the
bloodletting, two suicide bombers tore through a popular market
on Thursday and killed 82 people.


Men, women and children were slaughtered as they shopped before
the evening curfew and ahead of Friday, the Muslim day of rest.


The bombings in the Al-Shaab district, close to the Shiite
bastion of Sadr City, bore the hallmark of Al-Qaeda linked Sunni
extremists waging sectarian attacks on Shiites in a bid to keep
alive the brutal communal warfare.


The attacks are seen as the latest challenge to the Mahdi Army
militia made up of impoverished Shiite youths who have led the
counter-attack on Sunnis but who have recently melted into rural
villages to escape the Baghdad crackdown.


Hours before the Baghdad bombings, a string of vehicle bombs,
roadside bombs and mortar attacks killed another 43 people and
wounded dozens in Khalis.


The restive town lies in Diyala province, which has become the
most dangerous stretch of country outside the capital. Four
coordinated car bombings and mortar attacks there struck a
market, courthouse and a new army base.


As in Baghdad, the explosions unleashed mayhem, killing young and
old indiscriminately as they shopped in a favourite tactic of
Sunni extremists bent on inflicting maximum civilian casualties.


But as brutal bomb attacks rattled security forces in and around
Baghdad, a combined bout of insurgent and sectarian warfare in a
northern town -- once hailed as a symbol of a stable Iraq by US
President George W. Bush -- left authorities scrambling for
measures to control a fresh outbreak of violence.


On Tuesday, a suicide bomber blew up a truck loaded with flour
amid a crowd of Iraqis waiting for food supplies after a week of
shortages in a Shiite area of Tal Afar and killed 85 of them.
Nearly 200 were wounded in the blast.


What followed was a chilling example of Iraq's gruesome tit-for-
tat communal killings in which government security forces have
been at least complicit.


A group of armed men, many of them police officers, went on a
rampage in a Sunni district of the town and killed 75 Sunni Arab
men, dragging them out of their homes and executing them in the
street with a gunshot to the head.


Grief-struck women and relatives of the dead men were further
dissuaded from obtaining death certificates by local Shiite
authorities in Tal Afar hospital and had to rush to the
provincial capital of Mosul for the certification before they
buried the victims on the outskirts of the town.


A group of 13 policemen was initially detained but later freed by
the Iraqi army now deployed in the town.


Maliki has launched a probe into the Tal Afar killings, but no
details have since been provided.


Dozens of people have also been killed in different attacks
across Iraq over the past 72 hours and the US military on Friday
announced the death of another American soldier in a roadside
bomb attack in the capital.


The killing brought the US military's losses in Iraq since the
March 2003 invasion to 3,243, according to the Pentagon, in a
rising toll fuelling US domestic pressure on Washington to bring
the forces home.

