

Sir Alex Ferguson believes Paul Scholes is ready to give fresh
impetus to Manchester United's treble challenge.


United midfielder Scholes will return to action against Blackburn
on Saturday after three weeks on the sidelines while he served a
suspension for his red card at Liverpool.


Scholes, in self-imposed exile from England duty, was given an
additional break by the recent international fixtures and
Ferguson expects the 32-year-old to make up for lost time as the
Premiership leaders resume their bid to win the title for the
first time since 2003.


Only the magnificent form of United's imperious winger Cristano
Ronaldo have overshadowed Scholes' impressive contribution this
season and he is certain to play a major role in his side's push
for a triple trophy haul.


As well as trying to maintain their six-point advantage over
Chelsea, the Premiership leaders also face a Champions League
quarter-final against Roma and an FA Cup semi-final against
Watford next month, so Scholes's rest was perfectly timed.


Ferguson said: "Paul regards family life as very important. He
knows what the travelling with the international team is like
and, coming to his age, I think he felt it was time to give more
time to his family. That is the reason he gave up international
football.


"His form this season has been absolutely fantastic and now we
are getting him back fresh after a little break."


A United victory over Rovers would pile the pressure back on
Chelsea, who travel to struggling Watford in Saturday's late game
knowing they can't afford a single slip in their final eight
matches.


But Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho just wants his players to focus
on their own game and not worry about United.


"I keep saying to the players that we have to do our job,"
Mourinho said. "The only three points of Manchester United that
we can control is the game we have against them.


"After that we don't have a direct relation with them. We have to
do our job and win every game. Hopefully we can then play against
them when we have chances."


Liverpool winger Jermaine Pennant believes victory against
Arsenal would be enough to ensure his side finish third in the
Premiership.


Rafa Benitez's team will kick-off against Arsenal at Anfield a
point behind the third-placed Londoners, who have a game in hand,
but Pennant is convinced the match will effectively decide who
ends up directly behind United and Chelsea.


Pennant wants to finish above Arsenal to gain a measure of
revenge for the FA and League Cup defeats, as well as a 3-0
league beating, that Arsene Wenger's side inflicted on the Reds
earlier this season.


"Whoever wins this game will finish third," he told Liverpool's
website. "For that reason this is one of our biggest games of the
season.


"They have beaten us a few times this season so it's time for us
to get a victory."


History could be made at Craven Cottage, where Portsmouth
goalkeeper David James will try to get the one cleansheet he
needs to break David Seaman's Premiership record of 140 shutouts.


Charlton's hopes of avoiding relegation will get a massive boost
if they can beat fellow strugglers Wigan at The Valley. Alan
Pardew's third-bottom side have shown signs of mounting a
sustained fight for survival and a win would close the gap on
Wigan to three points.


Fixtures (1500GMT unless stated):


Saturday


Bolton v Sheffield Utd, Charlton v Wigan, Fulham v Portsmouth,
Liverpool v Arsenal (1245GMT), Manchester Utd v Blackburn,
Newcastle v Manchester City, Watford v Chelsea (1715GMT), West
Ham v Middlesbrough


Sunday


Tottenham v Reading (1600GMT)


Monday


Aston Villa v Everton (2000GMT)

