

US and South Korean negotiators sat down Friday for their final
full day of free trade talks before a weekend deadline,
encouraged by strong messages of support from their presidents.


But in a sign of the domestic pressures which each leader faces,
leading US Democrats in Congress have demanded a tougher US line
and denounced current proposals as "completely inadequate."


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun, who returned home Friday
from a Middle East visit, earlier discussed the free trade deal
with President George W. Bush in a 20-minute telephone
conversation from Qatar.


Roh was to be briefed by Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong and call a
meeting of economic-related Cabinet members before deciding
whether to sign the agreement, Yonhap news agency reported.


The two sides have until 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, or 6:00 pm
Friday in Washington, to reach a deal. Reports say there may be
an announcement around 1:00 am Saturday (1600 GMT Friday).


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday if it is to be
passed while Bush still has authority to "fast-track" trade
legislation -- meaning legislators can approve or reject the deal
but cannot amend it.


Roh and Bush agreed to empower their negotiators to conclude a
deal in time with "maximum flexibility," South Korea's
presidential spokesman said.


They "exchanged views on the remaining obstacles, including
automobiles, agriculture and textiles, and shared the view that
the deal should be concluded in a mutually beneficial manner."


Roh faces hunger strikes and other protests from legislators,
even though one survey this week showed that a majority of MPs
support it.


Since the tough negotiations began 10 months ago, tens of
thousands of Korean farmers and other activists who fear for
their jobs have taken to the streets in occasionally violent
protests.


The Korean Alliance Against the Korea-US FTA said it plans an
evening candlelight protest in Seoul with more than 10,000
farmers, workers and activists.


Police said about 10,000 riot police will be deployed in the
city.


Bush is also under pressure. US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and
other senior Democrats describe the proposed deal as a "one-way
street" in Seoul's favour.


In a letter Wednesday to US Trade Representative Susan Schwab,
they highlighted the auto market. Seoul sold some 800,000
vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the United States last
year, while US firms exported only some 4,000 vehicles the other
way.


The letter said the proposed deal "is completely inadequate in
the face of Korea's longstanding iron curtain to American
manufactured products."


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006 and some studies show this
could rise by about 20 percent with a free trade agreement.


Apart from autos, agriculture has been a key obstacle. South
Korea insists rice be excluded from any deal and is resisting
pressure for quick tariff cuts on other sensitive food items.


The US wants Korea to open its markets to US beef, both by
cutting tariffs and scrapping other barriers.


Before a 2003 import ban imposed over fears of mad cow disease,
South Korea was the third largest market for US beef with annual
purchases worth 850 million dollars.


Seoul last year lifted the ban and agreed to accept US boneless
beef but it then rejected three shipments after discovering tiny
bone fragments.

