

AFP news calendar


Monday, April 2 to Sunday, April 29:


------------------------------------


Monday, April 2


----------------


BANGKOK: Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud
Chulanont visits Japan for free trade talks (to April 5).


BOGOR, Indonesia: International Muslim clerics' conference (and
3).


BUENOS AIRES: Ceremonies to mark 25th anniversary of Argentine
landings on tiny islands off its southern coast, leading to the
Falklands War.


CAIRO: Resumption of the trial over the ferry disaster in the Red
Sea in 2006 that killed about 1,000 people.


CARDIFF: A ban on smoking in enclosed public places and
workplaces comes into force in Wales.


JERUSALEM: The Jewish holiday of Passover begins at sunset, lasts
until April 10.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia (ICTY) delivers verdict on appeal on Miroslav Bralo,
38, a Bosnian Croat sentenced to 20 years for having taken part
in the rapes and murders of Muslims during the 1992-95 Bosnian
War.


KUALA LUMPUR: Court application by blogger Ahirudin Attan, who is
seeking to strike out a defamation suit filed by government-
linked New Straits Times Press.


LONDON: Extradition hearing for four men accused of having taken
part in the 1994 Rwandan genocide.


LONDON: New measures come into force for foreigners who wish to
establish themselves permanently in Britain.


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays, each week).


MONROVIA: Supreme court to decide whether or not to cancel the
trial of former interim president Gyude Bryant.


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of death of pope John Paul II.


PARIS: Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr to meet French
counterpart Philippe Douste-Blazy.


SANAA: New hearing in the trial of 36 Al-Qaeda suspects.


SINGAPORE: Sea Asia conference (until April 4).


SINGAPORE: World Health Organisation holds a panel discussion
about international health security.


TOKYO: Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont
visits (until April 5).


Tuesday, April 3


----------------


CAIRO: International contact group on Somalia meets.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia (ICTY) delivers appeal court verdict on former Bosnia
Serb leader Radoslav Brdanin, sentenced to 32 years for crimes
against humanity and war crimes.


THE HAGUE: Status conference in new trial of Serb ultra-
nationalist leader Vojislav Seselj before the ICTY.


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council to hear charges
registered by President Pervez Musharraf against the country's
top judge.


MOSCOW: Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso visits.


NEW DELHI: The start of a two-day summit of the seven-nation
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation with Afghanistan
expected to gain membership.


PARIS: Trial of five Italian and Spanish far-left activists for
on terrorism- related charges.


TAIPEI: Opposition leader Ma Ying-jeou goes on trial on
corruption charges.


SINGAPORE: Singapore court to hand down verdict in trial
involving a former Malaysian national football coach charged with
match fixing in the local professional league.


YEREVAN: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visits (and 4).


Wednesday, April 4


------------------


ANTANANARIVO: Referendum on revising the constitution to
strengthen the powers of the president and introduce English as
the country's official language.


CHIANG MAI, Thailand: ASEAN finance ministers begin a two-day
meeting.


HELSINKI: Official negotiations begin to form a new government,
after March 18 legislative elections.


MOSCOW: Auction of Yukos assets in the Russian oil group Gazprom
Neft.


SINGAPORE: Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Embraer to announce
investment and expansion plans for the Asia Pacific region.


Thursday, April 5


-----------------


GROZNY, Russia: New Chechen president Ramzan Kadyrov sworn in.


JAKARTA: Playboy magazine trial verdict.


LONDON: Three images of the Volkswagen Beetle from 1977 by Andy
Warhol to be auctioned by Christie's.


MANCHESTER, England: Queen Elizabeth in traditional Maundy
Thursday ceremony of the giving of alms to the poor, at
Manchester Cathedral.


SINGAPORE: Opening night of the play "251" about former Singapore
porn actress Annabel Chong, who set a record in 1995 for having
sex with 251 men in 10 hours.


Friday, April 6


---------------


KATHMANDU: First anniversary of the start of the "People's
Movement" of nationwide protests that led King Gyanendra to end
direct rule on April 24.


MANILA: Annual Good Friday real-life reenactments of the
crucifixion of Jesus Christ in the northern city of San Fernando.


PHNOM PENH: Appeals court hearing in case of murdered labour
leader Chea Vichea amid claims that the wrong suspects are in
custody.


RABAT: The trial of Akoudad, a Moroccan thrown out of Spain
suspected of terrorism.


ROME/VATICAN CITY: Good Friday celebrations.


Saturday, April 7


-----------------


BAIKONUR: Soyuz vessel lifts off carrying a new space tourist,
American billionaire Charles Simonyi.


KATHMANDU: Report into the killings of 29 Maoist supporters on
March 21 in south of country expected.


LUCKNOW, India: Start of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, India's
largest state, to be held in seven phases ending on May 3 to
manage around 100 million voters.


Sunday, April 8


---------------


ATHENS/JERUSALEM/VATICAN CITY: Easter celebrations.


BAMAKO: Official start of Mali's presidential election campaign.


LONDON: Jonathan Evans, new head of MI5, Britain's intelligence
service, takes up his post.


Monday, April 9


---------------


BAGHDAD: Fourth anniversary of the downfall of Saddam Hussein's
regime in Iraq.


DILI: East Timor presidential election.


DOHA: Two-day forum for gas exporting countries where a gas
cartel could be announced.


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays, each week).


PARIS: Campaigning officially gets underway for first round of
French presidential election.


TEHRAN: National Iranian holiday to mark its progress in nuclear
technology.


TOKYO: Bank of Japan begins two-day policy board meeting.


Tuesday, April 10


-----------------


COPENHAGEN: WHO Director General Margaret Chan visits, to take
part in a conference on women and health in developing countries.


HANOVER, Germany: World's biggest industrial fair opens (to 20).


SEOUL: Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits South Korea (and 11).


SEOUL: Red Cross officials from North and South Korea meet at
Mount Kumgang in the North to discuss those who went missing
during or after the Korean War (to 12).


TOKYO: Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui holds a press
conference following policy board decision.


Wednesday, April 11


-------------------


BISHKEK: Opposition demonstration in Kyrgyz capital.


COPENHAGEN: A Danish court to decide whether 26 Danes are
entitled to sue Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, whom they
accuse of violating the constitution by involving Denmark in the
war on Iraq.


WARSAW: Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey visits.


AMMAN: The trial continues of three suspected Islamists accused
of conspiring to assassinate US President George W. Bush during a
visit to Jordan last year.


RABAT: Trial of two British suspects in Kent robbery.


TOKYO: Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits Japan (until April 13).


Thursday, April 12


------------------


DHAKA: Tareque Rahman, high-profile son of ex-premier Khaleda
Zia, appears in court on extortion allegations.


TALLINN: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits.


WARSAW: Moroccan Prime Minister Driss Jettou visits (and 13, to
be confirmed).


Friday, April 13


----------------


ABUJA: Gubernatorial elections.


YANGON: Myanmar begins its annual Water Festival, the only time
of year when people are allowed to move freely on the streets (to
17).


Saturday, April 14


------------------


MOSCOW: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


SEOUL: Deadline for North Korea to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear
reactor as part of a February 13 nuclear disarmament agreement.


Sunday, April 15


-----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel marks Holocaust memorial day.


SAINT PETERSBURG: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


TOKYO: Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi visits Japan (until
April 17).


Monday, April 16


----------------


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia opens trial of Macedonian former interior minister
Ljube Boskovski, accused of war crimes over the killings of
ethnic Albanians during an uprising.


LONDON: Trial opens of Levi Bellfield, suspected of having murder
French student Amelie Delagrange in London, August 2004: and of
the kidnap and attempted murder of five other women.


LONDON: Trial at the Old Bailey of five men accused of having
hidden information on terrorist attacks.


LUXEMBOURG: EU agriculture ministers meet (and 17).


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays, each week).


VATICAN CITY: Pope Benedict XVI marks his 80th birthday.


Tuesday, April 17


-----------------


GENEVA: International conference on displaced people in Iraq,
organised by UN High Commissioner for Refugees (and 18).


HELSINKI: Finland's new prime minister elected in parliament.


ROME: Opening of trial of US marine Mario Lozano for the fatal
shooting in Iraq in March 2005 of an Italian secret agent.


SINGAPORE: World Continuity Congress on business continuity and
disaster recovery (until April 18).


Wednesday, April 18


-----------------


TEHRAN: Iran marks Army Day.


Thursday, April 19


------------------


BRUSSELS: Opening of trial of a Rwandan soldier for the 1994
killing of former Rwandan prime minister Agathe Uwililgiymana and
10 UN soldiers who were protecting him.


HELSINKI: Finnish President Tarja Halonen to appoint a new
government.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that claimed 257
lives.


NOUAKCHOTT: Mauritania's newly elected president sworn in,
marking the final stage in transition from military to civilian
rule.


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of election of Pope Benedict
XVI.


Friday, April 20


----------------


RABAT: Trial of two Belgians of Moroccan origin on terrorism
charges.


Saturday April 21


----------------


LONDON: Queen Elizabeth celebrates 81st birthday. (Official
celebrations will be June 17.)


ABUJA: Presidential and legislative elections.


Sunday, April 22


----------------


DAMASCUS: Syria holds legislative election.


SANAA: Yemeni appeal court to rule in the case of 23 nationals
sentenced to jail for trying to get to Iraq to join the
insurgency.


TRIPOLI: The trial resumes of six foreign medics on death row in
a Libyan AIDS case who face new charges of slandering police they
accuse of torture.


PARIS: First round of presidential election.


Monday, April 23


----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel celebrates Independence Day marking the 59th
anniversary of the state's founding in 1948.


LUXEMBOURG: EU foreign ministers meeting.


Tuesday, April 24


----------------


KATHMANDU: One-year anniversary of end of 2006 "People's
Movement," massive nationwide protests that led to King Gyanendra
ending his direct rule.


LUXEMBOURG: EU-Russia meeting.


YEREVAN: Day of commemoration of Armenian genocide. Declared a
national "Democracy Day" holiday.


Wednesday, April 25


----------------


PARIS: World Water Congress (until 28).


Thursday, April 26


----------------


GUERNICA, Spain: 70th anniversary of bombing of Guernica.


Friday, April 27


----------------


International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia holds
status conference for trial of Ante Gotovina and two other Croat
generals, charged with war crimes committed at the end of the
1991-1995 Serb-Croat War.


PARIS: Campaigning opens officially for the second round of the
presidential election.


Sunday, April 29


----------------


BAMAKO: First round of presidential election.

