

The week-old standoff between London and Tehran over 15 detained
naval personnel has sent world oil prices surging to a six-month
high -- with warnings they could rise further.


Crude prices hit a high of 69 dollars a barrel this week, as
traders fretted over escalating tensions between major crude
supplier Iran and the West, a week after the standoff started
with the seizure at gunpoint last Friday.


"It wouldn't surprise me if we saw 70 (dollars a barrel) quite
easily or beyond," said Simon Hayley, senior international
economist at Capital Economics.


In early London trade on Friday, the price of Brent North Sea
crude for May traded close to 69 dollars.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, Thursday surged 1.95 dollars to close at 66.03
dollars a barrel, topping the 66-dollar mark for the first time
since last September. The contract traded at one point as high as
66.50 dollars.


Crude futures had Tuesday soared to 69 dollars in London and
68.09 in New York -- levels last seen in early September -- on
rumours of military conflict in Iran. They fell back after the
stories were unfounded.


But in the last couple of days prices have again risen strongly
after Britain froze ties with Iran, the world's fourth largest
producer of crude.


Initially this was in response to the Islamic country's refusal
to release 15 British sailors it had captured last week. Iran
insists that the personnel were detained for being in Iranian
waters, but Britain denies this, claiming they were inside Iraqi
waters.


Further fuel was added to oil prices on Thursday after Iran
decided against releasing the only female British sailor held
among the group of 15.


A defiant Iran said it would not release as promised Faye Turney
because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude in the growing crisis
between the two countries.


Oil prices are meanwhile being supported also by Iran's refusal
to bow to international pressure over its disputed nuclear
programme.


Bache Financial trader Christopher Bellew said some people were
guilty of "widening the geopolitical premium by pushing the price
up prematurely."


Hayley of Capital Economics said the premium was currently at
about 5.0 dollars a barrel. Therefore with the premium stripped
out, and if the market reacted solely to oil's demand-supply
balance, prices would likely be trading at between 60 and 62
dollars.


Despite the week's spike to crude -- prices have shot by as much
as nearly 6.0 dollars or 9.0 percent since last Friday -- they
remain a long way off record highs of above 78 dollars a barrel
struck last year.


"I'd be surprised (if we got a new record high)," because of the
present Iran situation, Hayley told AFP on Thursday.


"It would have to get pretty hot... You would have to have a
fairly strong probability that there would be a very substantial
interruption to supplies either from Iran or the whole Gulf.


"If you get that then you could certainly see new highs but I'd
be surprised if the Iranians let it blow up to quite that level"
of unrest, he added.


In mid-2006, amid an already tight supply situation, concerns
about geopolitical instability in producer regions pumped prices
higher and led to the all-time highs above 78 dollars per barrel.


The threat of UN sanctions against Iran over its nuclear stand-
off with the West led the Islamic Republic to hint at threatening
disruption to its oil exports, which in turn sent prices surging.


But symbolising the volatility of oil trading during the past
year, they went on to fall below 50 dollars in New York in mid-
January, the lowest point for 19 months, owing to strengthening
energy stockpiles in the United States.

