

Australian Open champion Serena Williams ousted Shahar Peer in
straight sets here Thursday to book a clash with world No. 1
Justine Henin in the final of the 6.9 million-dollar Sony
Ericsson Open.


Williams, seeded 13th, downed Israel's 14th-seeded Peer 7-6
(7/4), 6-1 in a rematch of their epic quarter-final clash in
Melbourne in January, when Williams triumphed en route to her
surprise Aussie Open championship.


Henin, seeded second here, had already advanced with a 6-2, 6-3
victory over ninth-seeded Russian Anna Chakvetadze.


The Belgian, who took over the world number one ranking earlier
this week, improved to 15-1 in 2007.


She'll be meeting Williams for the first time since the Wimbledon
semi-finals in 2003, when the American posted a straight-set
victory.


"It's a long time we didn't play each other," Henin said. "She
looks like she's healthy now - that's the biggest difference -
and very focused on her tennis."


Williams is 14-1 this season, displaying a renewed commitment to
the sport after over a year of injuries and distractions.


Playing in her first event since winning the Australian Open, she
clearly has not missed a beat, posting straight-sets victories in
each of her first four matches.


"I wasn't really surprised the way she came back in Australia,"
Henin said. "When she's healthy and really focused, she's a great
champion. She has nothing to prove to anyone. She did it in the
past."


En route to the final here, Williams dismantled top-seeded
Russian Maria Sharapova and eighth-seeded Czech Nicole Vaidisova.


The American will try to solve Henin, the defending French Open
champion who also reached the final in the other three Grand
Slams last year.


"No one really writes about her getting the four Grand Slam
finals, and that's an incredible feat," Williams said. "I think
she was the Player of the Year last year. She had a Grand Slam,
and four finals is not easy on four different surfaces."


"We will see what's going to happen," said Henin, who has won 13
straight matches and two two tournaments since a semi-final loss
to Lucie Safarova in Paris. "It's certainly a long time ago. We
had a couple of good fights in the past."


Against Chakvetadze, Henin had five aces and five service breaks,
closing out her foe in 71 minutes.


"I had the solution to every ball she was hitting today, and I
used my slice a lot," Henin said. "I could change the rhythm. I
was running a lot and I was moving well."


In the depleted men's draw, unseeded Argentinian giant-killer
Guillermo Canas continued his run, upsetting sixth seed Tommy
Robredo of Spain 7-6 (7/5), 6-1 in the quarter-finals.


Canas rocked the tennis world for the second time in less than
three weeks Tuesday, holding on for a thrilling 7-6 (7/2), 2-6,
7-6 (7-5) victory over top- seeded Roger Federer in the fourth
round.


On March 11, Canas upset Federer in straight sets in the second
round at Indian Wells, ending the Swiss superstar's 41-match
winning streak.


Canas will face seventh seed Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia, who
defeated Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina 6-3, 7-5.


"I think I played Canas once, here, seven years ago, maybe,"
Ljubicic said. "It was a long time ago.


"But that match doesn't mean anything. I saw him with Roger the
other day - he is rock solid on the baseline. His short swings,
he's not missing anything.  You give him a short ball, he can go
for it."


Second-seeded Rafael Nadal of Spain and third-seeded American
Andy Roddick also failed to make out of the quarter-finals.


Nadal lost in straight sets to Novak Djokovic, hours after
Roddick retired from his quarter-final match against Andy Murray
with an apparent hamstring injury.


Serbia's Djokovic and Scotland's Murray, both 19, will battle it
out in the other men's semi-final on Friday.

