

India has delayed the approval of British telecom giant
Vodafone's multi- billion-dollar deal to buy Hutchison Essar
while it decides whether the Indian cellular company's
shareholding structure meets foreign investment rules.


The announcement came after a meeting of the Foreign Investment
Promotion Board which was examining if the shareholding structure
breached regulations allowing foreign ownership of up to 74
percent in a domestic telecom firm.


"I have sought more comments from the companies. They have agreed
to give us more details. The decision has been deferred," Finance
Secretary Ashok Jha told reporters late on Thursday.


He gave no time frame for a decision.


Last month, Vodafone agreed to buy Hong Kong-based Hutchison
Telecommunications International Ltd's (HTIL) controlling
interest in India's fourth-largest cellular player Hutchison
Essar for 11.1 billion dollars.


Vodafone Group Plc, the world's largest mobile phone company by
sales, has insisted the deal conforms with Indian rules and that
it expects the purchase to close in the second quarter.


HTIL holds 52 percent of Hutchison Essar directly and has an
"economic interest" in another 15 percent held by Asim Ghosh,
Hutchison Essar managing director, and Analjit Singh, chairman of
healthcare group Max India, officials say.


The balance -- 33 percent -- is held by Indian steel-to-shipping
conglomerate Essar but two-thirds of its stake is controlled
through an offshore company for tax reasons, making it foreign.


Hutchison Telecom stood guarantor for the loans for minority
stakeholders Ghosh and Singh, the Press Trust of India reported.
If India decides this arrangement makes the minority stakes
foreign owned, the FDI cap of 74 percent in Hutchison Essar may
be breached.


Both Singh and Ghosh say they are the real owners of the stake
and not a front for HTIL.


The shareholding arrangement was approved by the Foreign
Investment Promotion Board -- the decision making body for
foreign investment in the country -- last year.


The board was believed on Thursday to have sought details of the
loans taken by Ghosh and Singh for acquiring their stake in
Hutchison Essar, the Press Trust of India reported.


Vodafone's director for external Relations Mathew Kirk said the
company was "happy to be offering" the government any information
they want.


Vodafone, which is aiming to offset saturation in Western
markets, has said it wants to make Hutchison Essar India's number
one cellular operator by 2010.


HTIL was represented by a law firm at the meeting.

