

Jose Mourinho has told his Chelsea players to forget about
Manchester United as they try to overhaul the Premiership
leaders.


Chelsea could be nine points behind United by the time they kick-
off at Watford in Saturday's late match as Sir Alex Ferguson's
side host Blackburn earlier the same day.


A victory at Vicarage Road is essential regardless of how United
fare and Mourinho believes Chelsea must focus on their own game
rather than worry about matters out of their control.


There is currently a six point gap between the two sides and
Mourinho wants to see more of the spirit which has kept his men
in the challenge for a third successive league title success.


"I keep saying to the players that we have to do our job,"
Mourinho explained. "The only three points of Manchester United
that we can control is the game we have against them.


"After that we don't have a direct relation with them. We have to
do our job and win every game. Hopefully we can then play against
them when we have chances."


Chelsea's last outing saw them beat Tottenham 2-1 to set up an FA
Cup semi-final date with Blackburn. They have already won the
League Cup and face a Champions League quarter-final tie with
Valencia next week.


But the cup competitions will be put to the back of their minds
this weekend as they attempt to keep their league ambitions on
track.


Six successive wins in the Premiership have given them further
hope of winning this season's title, and the prospect of facing a
side who have won just three games all season will not strike any
fear into the players.


Frank Lampard is the biggest injury concern for the west London
outfit, after suffering a hairline fracture to his wrist while on
international duty with England.


He is expected to be given the go-ahead to play by Chelsea's
medical team however, as Mourinho's men attempt to keep pace with
United.


Watford are deep in the relegation battle, bottom of the table,
and are facing the drop into the Championship.


They hope to have Jay DeMerit available despite a long-haul
flight back from USA, where he has been on international duty, on
Thursday afternoon. Hungarian Tamas Priskin is also expected to
start up front.


Manager Adrian Boothroyd knows his side are up against it as they
try to stay in the top-flight, but he is desperate for his
players not to be overawed by their more illustrious opponents.


"Man for man Chelsea are a better team than us, I know that," he
said. "But we have been star struck before and we have to make
sure that doesn't happen again. It is easier said than done.


"I ask myself what has been bad about this season, and obviously
there is a massive list. But I also ask what has been good, and
there is another list, not quite as big but there are positives.


"It can only make the players better to have the experience they
have had."

