

UN chief Ban Ki-moon was meeting leaders on both sides of
Lebanon's political divide on Friday after calling for dialogue
to end the country's most damaging crisis since the civil war.


Ban's talks are expected to cover the months-old political crisis
in Lebanon and plans for the creation of an international court
over the 2005 murder of former premier Rafiq Hariri and the
status of the UN probe into the killing.


"I came at an important time where all are trying to pressure for
peace and security. The challenge is particularly serious in
Lebanon," the secretary general said after his arrival from an
Arab summit in Riyadh on Thursday.


"We hope that dialogue and reconciliation will prevail. I hope
that the efforts of Lebanese and Arab mediators will prevail. All
will lose from an escalation. Dialogue and compromise are the
only ways toward national unity."


On Friday, Ban was first meeting parliament speaker Nabih Berri,
an influential leader of the Syrian-backed opposition.


Ban was also set to meet Western-backed Prime Minister Fuad
Siniora and parliamentary majority leader Saad Hariri as well as
pro-Syrian Hezbollah official Mohamad Fneish, who was among six
Shiite ministers who quit the cabinet in November.


On Saturday, he is expected to travel to southern Lebanon to
visit the UN peacekeeping force monitoring a ceasefire that ended
last year's war between Israel and the Lebanese Shiite Muslim
movement Hezbollah.


Since the 34-day conflict, the UN force has been beefed up to
12,997 peacekeeping soldiers from 30 countries -- including
11,302 ground troops and 1,695 naval personnel -- according to a
statement on Thursday.


In an address to the Arab summit on Wednesday, Ban said "the
situation in Lebanon must be another of our priorities" and that
he regretted "that Lebanon continues to go through internal
political turmoil."


Ban also told the Arab leaders that Siniora had "displayed
impressive leadership under difficult circumstances, and I urge
you to support his democratically elected government."


His remark triggered a grimace from Siniora's rival, the pro-
Syrian President Emile Lahoud.


Lahoud and the Damascus-backed opposition consider Siniora's
Western-backed government "illegitimate" after all Shiite Muslim
ministers resigned last November.


The country has since been paralysed as the opposition insists on
an enlarged cabinet in which it would wield a veto -- a demand
rejected by the ruling majority.


The government accuses the opposition of acting under Syrian
pressure to paralyse political institutions and block the
creation of an international tribunal to try suspects in Hariri
murder, widely blamed on Damascus.


His killing triggered domestic and international protests which
forced Damascus to end 29 years of military presence and
political domination of its neighbour in April 2005. Syria denies
any involvement in Hariri's death.


The UN team probing the assassination has also been investigating
a series of attacks that targeted Lebanese figures hostile to
Syria's role in the country.

