

Malaysia says that militants captured in insurgency-hit southern
Thailand with a cache of weapons and money are not Malaysian
citizens and were not trained here, according to reports Friday.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said there was little
evidence the group of 11, caught Wednesday by Thai soldiers in
Narathiwat province, were Malaysians.


"They could be Thai nationals. It is only that they had Malaysian
currency with them when they were arrested. Maybe they wanted to
enter Malaysia," Abdullah was quoted as saying by the New Straits
Times.


"However, without any other solid evidence, I deny that those
people were Malaysians or that they were trained in Malaysia," he
was quoted as saying from Saudi Arabia during a trip there.


Violence in southern Thailand is a sensitive bilateral issue and
Thai officials have in the past accused Malaysia of failing to
prevent insurgents from crossing the porous border to stage
attacks.


Malaysia has denied those charges, as well as accusations of
insurgency training camps within the country.


Thailand also believes that militants behind the insurgency are
abusing dual citizenship to escape across the border with
Malaysia after committing attacks.


In the raid on a mosque in Narathiwat, Thai soldiers captured the
militants and seized about 2,500 dollars worth of Thai baht and
Malaysian ringgit, as well as weapons, radio communication
equipment and medical supplies.


Abdullah said Malaysia was not ignoring information passed on
from Thailand about suspected militants, but pointed to
difficulties in tracking them down.


"It is not a question of having easy access as many of these
people follow the procedures and enter the country using legal
travel documents," he was quoted as saying in the Star daily.


Abdullah said the countries were exchanging lists of people with
suspected dual citizenship.


"By exchanging the name lists of both sides we will be able to
determine how many people actually hold dual citizenship," he
said.


The two countries last month agreed to boost cooperation to end
three years of separatist unrest in the Thailand's south in which
2,000 people have died.

