

Former prison guard Charl Langeveldt may not have the pace of
South Africa team- mates Shaun Pollock and Makhaya Ntini, but
he's second to none when it comes to delivering in crunch
situations.


South Africa were fortunate to find Langeveldt in superb form in
their opening World Cup Super Eights match against Sri Lanka,
just when they needed it most.


Sri Lanka were poised to launch a closing-overs onslaught when
they ran into Langeveldt, who grabbed three wickets in his second
spell to restrict the opposition to a modest total of 209.


He finished with a career-best haul 5-39 off 10 disciplined
overs, only the second time he had grabbed five wickets in an
innings in 42 one-day internationals since making his debut in
2001.


He shared the man-of-the-match award with Sri Lanka paceman
Lasith Malinga, who became the first bowler in the one-day
history to take four wickets off successive balls.


South Africa captain Graeme Smith was all praise for Langeveldt,
saying he played a crucial role with both ball and bat in a tense
match.


"Charl has been bowling well for a while. He is a superbly-
skilled bowler and he showed that," said Smith, whose team
completed a thrilling one-wicket victory in the maiden one-day
international at the Providence Stadium.


"He got the ball to swing and he bowled very well at the death
for us and he blocked out ten balls with the bat in the last few
overs."


Langeveldt came in to bat in pressure situation after Malinga had
rocked South Africa with four wickets in his second spell. He
faced nine balls in scoring just one run before team-mate Robin
Peterson hit the winning four.


"When I was batting there at the end, my heart was in my ... I
don't know where it was. I was just thinking to get bat on ball
but I never expected that I would have to bat," said Langeveldt,
32.


"I had been saying to the other guys that I would not have to
bat. But that's cricket. You learn every day."


Langeveldt, who combined his first-class cricket with his job as
a prison warder early in his career, caught the selectors' eye
with his ability to swing the ball. It was his movement that
caught the Sri Lankans on the wrong-foot.


When asked whether he would like to open the bowling, Langeveldt
said: "No, I prefer first change. I like it when the ball's
swinging and it was moving around against Sri Lanka in overcast
conditions but I prefer first change."


The Caribbean seems to be a happy hunting ground for Langeveldt,
who took a hat- trick to script his team's sensational one-run
victory over the West Indies at Bridgetown in Barbados in 2005.


The West Indies were strongly placed at 281-6 chasing South
Africa's total of 284 before Langeveldt changed the course of the
match with his maiden five- wicket haul.


Langeveldt has given his skipper more options with his variations
as he has the ability to strike at crucial moments. He has so far
bagged 56 wickets in 42 one- dayers.

