

The Japanese government on Friday approved a two-year extension
of its air force mission supporting US-led operations in Iraq,
despite growing criticism of the war at home and abroad.


The cabinet of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gave the go-ahead in the
run-up to his first summit in Washington with US President George
W. Bush, expected to take place in late April or early May.


"We have made the decision considering the contribution that
Japan can provide," chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki
told a news conference.


The bill was sent to parliament, where its approval is virtually
assured as Abe's Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition holds a
comfortable majority.


The bill would extend the mission, which flies people and
supplies into Iraq on behalf of the US-led coalition and United
Nations, by two years to July 31, 2009.


The cabinet approval came less than a day after the Democratic-
controlled US Senate tied funding for the war to a timetable to
withdraw US troops by August 2008. Bush has said he plans to veto
the bill.


Abe has vowed to extend the Iraq mission as part of his quest for
officially pacifist Japan to take a more assertive role in global
security.


But a poll published last week by the liberal Asahi Shimbun
showed that a mere 19 percent of the Japanese public approved
extending the mission, while 69 percent were opposed.


Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma caused a stir earlier this year when
he said the United States was wrong to invade Iraq, despite
Japan's strong backing for the decision at the time.


Japan last year ended its landmark deployment of troops in Iraq.
The reconstruction mission marked the first time since World War
II that Japan had sent troops to a country where fighting was
underway.


Despite the troop withdrawal, Japan maintained the air force
mission, which includes some 210 personnel based in Kuwait.


The extension also comes ahead of a visit to Japan by Iraqi Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki, reportedly planned for April.

