

A South Korean parliamentary panel on Friday called for a US
fund's takeover of a local bank to be cancelled after a state
audit body said the deal was flawed.


The Legislation and Judiciary Committee in a resolution also
urged the government to punish officials responsible for the sale
of Korea Exchange Bank (KEB) to Dallas-based Lone Star, the
panel's investigator Lee Wook Hee said.


"The 2003 approval for Lone Star to own an unduly excessive stake
in KEB should be immediately cancelled," read the resolution,
according to Lee.


Lee told AFP the panel is not empowered to cancel the deal but
"the resolution will put political pressure on the government."


The full parliament will vote on the resolution on Monday, he
said.


Lone Star took over KEB, South Korea's fifth largest bank, by
buying a 50.5 percent stake for some 1.5 billion dollars in 2003.
It increased its stake to 64.62 percent.


But the state Board of Audit and Inspection said this month Lone
Star was "not qualified" to be KEB's largest shareholder and the
bank's losses had been deliberately inflated to undercut its sale
price.


The board recommended financial authorities take "proper"
measures to remedy the problem but did not specify whether the
deal should be cancelled.


The US fund has rejected the audit results.


Prosecutors have investigated Lone Star, among others, for
allegedly conspiring with local officials to drive down the
bank's price.


State auditors accused former KEB chief Lee Kang-Won of helping
Lone Star acquire the bank cheaply by inflating its debt figure.


They also said US investment bank Morgan Stanley had "improperly"
served as an adviser to the Seoul government by intentionally
underestimating the bank's value. Morgan Stanley has insisted it
acted properly.


Prosecutors also accuse Lone Star officials and others of
manipulating the share price of KEB's separate credit card unit
so it could be acquired cheaply by the bank.


In November Lone Star said it had to withdraw from a 7.4 billion
dollar deal to sell KEB to South Korea's largest lender, Kookmin
Bank, after judges granted prosecutors arrest warrants for two
US-based Lone Star executives.


On Monday the head of Lone Star's local unit went on trial on
charges of stock manipulation bur protested his innocence.


Lone Star says the cases are driven by latent hostility to
foreign investors. There is resentment of foreign companies which
made fat profits by selling off South Korean assets acquired
cheaply during economic downturns.

