

Australia will urge Indonesia to process claims from asylum-
seekers on its shores rather than allow them to travel south and
arrive here illegally as boat people, a senior minister said
Friday.


Indonesia, seen as a regional hub for people-smugglers, would be
required to process the refugees under United Nations protocols,
Immigration Minister Kevin Andrews said.


"What we are seeking is better cooperation to allow people who
have a refugee claim to have that claim processed under the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees protocols in
Indonesia," he said.


The proposal would be an expansion of Australia's controversial
immigration plan, known as the Pacific solution, under which
arrivals are processed offshore.


Under this scheme, asylum-seekers are sent to the Pacific island
of Nauru, Papua New Guinea or to islands legally excised from the
Australian mainland's immigration jurisdiction for processing.


Andrews, who will travel to Jakarta later this month to push his
request, would not rule out sending boat people back to Indonesia
if intercepted at sea or even if they reached Australian
territory.


But he said the main purpose of the talks with Indonesian
officials was to achieve a regional solution to the people-
smuggling problem affecting many Asian nations.


"The primary purpose is to see whether or not anybody who ends up
in Indonesia and has got a refugee claim, that that claim could
be dealt with in Indonesia," he said.


"If we could achieve that, then we would go a long way towards
putting out of operation the people smugglers and we would do a
lot in terms of the safety of people that might otherwise be
endangered by being put on a leaking fishing boat into the Indian
Ocean."


Canberra raised the issue of Jakarta taking asylum-seekers after
a boatload of Sri Lankans were intercepted nearing Australia in
February after staging their journey through Indonesia.


Amnesty International's Australian branch said because Indonesia
has not signed on to the UN refugee convention there could be no
guarantee about how people would be processed.


"If Indonesia signed the refugee convention then you can have
some sort of faith that they would actually keep their word,"
Graham Thom told ABC radio.


"But remember Australia has signed the refugee convention and
we're now talking about sending people to Indonesia.


"So what sort of faith can you have in a country that refuses to
sign the refugee convention?"

