

Washington is set to announce a new policy that will allow
American companies to appeal for punitive tariffs on state-
subsidised goods made in China, the Financial Times reported
Friday.


The George W. Bush administration is expected to rule Friday that
duties can be applied to products that benefit from state
subsidies in non-market economies, the newspaper cited an unnamed
official as saying.


The decision is likely to prompt a barrage of tariffs slapped on
a wide range of imports from China.


Industries as varied as steel and consumer goods could initiate
action for punitive duties to be levied on products supported by
government grants, bailouts and low-interest loans, the paper
said.


The initial test case for the change in policy was brought before
the US Commerce Department by paper company Newpage.


Gilbert Kaplan, a lawyer for Newpage, said the new approach to
tariffs "is a very important precedent for US manufacturers and
workers."


Washington's expected move follows accusation made Thursday by a
senior US official that Beijing had made "little to no progress"
in opening key market sectors, warning that the United States was
losing patience with China.


After the steps taken to liberalise its economy during its first
five years in the World Trade Organisation China needed to do
more US Undersecretary of Commerce Frank Lavin said in Beijing


"In a number of critical sectors there has been little to no
progress in market opening," he said.


"Our point is that the world economy is moving, so we should
always look ahead. We can't simply say in 2002, we fixed a
problem, in 2004 we fixed another problem. We have to say, what
are we fixing in '07 and '08."


China accounted for 28 percent of the US record 763.6 billion-
dollar deficit in 2006 and Lavin warned that concerns in
Washington about the imbalance were growing stronger.


Tim Stratford, the assistant United States trade representative
for the Asia region, confirmed to the newspaper Washington's
increasingly combative mood.


He told the Financial Times that the administration was prepared
to launch more government-led trade cases against China.


After a five-year honeymoon since China joined the WTO, "the time
has come to hold China accountable to WTO standards", Stratford
said.

