

Japan on Friday deployed its first missile defence system in the
Tokyo area one year ahead of schedule as its relations remain
tense with nuclear-armed North Korea.


The United States last year installed Japan's first anti-missile
system on the southern island of Okinawa, but the interceptors
deployed Friday were the first installed by Japan on its own.


Two Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) surface-to-air
interceptors were installed early Friday at the Iruma Air Self-
Defence Force base in suburban Tokyo, a defence ministry
spokesman said.


The ministry plans to deploy the US-developed PAC-3s, which can
cover a 20-kilometre (12-mile) radius, at a total of 11 bases in
eastern and western Japan by March 2011.


"We would like to go fully ahead with our plan," Defence Minister
Fumio Kyuma told a news conference.


Kyuma also said his ministry would speed up deployment of a
missile defence system on its Aegis warships to give Japan a two-
phased anti-missile shield.


The ministry deployed the launchers, designed to protect the
capital Tokyo, earlier than initially scheduled in response to
North Korea's launch of missiles in July and its nuclear test in
October.


"We had initially planned to complete the deployment by March
next year, but we accelerated the plan following North Korea's
missile launch," the defence ministry spokesman said.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has built his career campaigning for a
tough line against North Korea, particularly over its past
kidnappings of Japanese civilians.


Jiji Press, quoting an unnamed source, said his government had
decided to extend tough sanctions against North Korea when they
expire in mid-April to keep the pressure on Pyongyang over the
abductions.


The continued tough line would come despite an increasingly
conciliatory approach by the United States, which has agreed to a
six-way deal providing fuel aid in return for North Korea
freezing its nuclear programme.


Japan has taken the hardest line at the six-way talks and has
refused to fund the deal, saying it will not help North Korea
until the kidnapping dispute is resolved.


Japan says the secretive Stalinist state abducted Japanese
nationals in the 1970s and 1980s to train its spies.


Abe has also championed a greater military role for Japan and is
seeking to revise the pacifist constitution imposed by the United
States in 1947. Due to the constitution, Japan calls its military
the Self-Defence Forces.


Friday's deployment was the first by Japan's military of a
missile interceptor since World War II.


The United States separately deployed its own Patriot anti-
missile system last year in Okinawa, raising protests among some
local leaders opposed to the US troops.


Japan and the United States started working on a more advanced
missile shield after North Korea in 1998 fired a missile over
Japan's main island.


Last week, the Japanese government approved emergency response
guidelines that will allow the armed forces to fire interceptor
missiles without the prime minister's prior approval.


The new guidelines will allow the defence minister to order the
interception of incoming ballistic missiles.

