

Herewith the texts of two letters attributed to Faye Turney, the
sole female detainee among 15 sailors and marines detained by
Iran in the Gulf last Friday.


The Foreign Office voiced concern over "coercion" after the first
letter, while Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett described the
second as a "blatant attempt to use leading seaman Turney for
propaganda purposes."


1. The first letter was released on Wednesday, at same time as a
video of Turney and her colleagues:


"Dear Mum and Dad,


"I am writing to you from Iran where I am being held.


"I will try to explain to you the best what has happened.


"We were out in the boats when we were arrested by Iranian forces
as we had apparently gone into Iranian waters.


"I wish we hadn't because then I would be home with you all right
now.


"I'm so sorry we did because I know we wouldn't be here now if we
hadn't.


"I want you all to know that I am well and safe. I am being well
looked after,I am fed three meals a day and I'm in constant
supply of fluids.


"The people are friendly and hospitable, very compassionate and
warm.


"I have written a letter to the Iranian people to apologise for
us entering into their waters.


"Please don't worry about me. I'm staying strong. Hopefully it
won't be long till I'm home to get ready for Molly's birthday
party and with a present from the Iranian people.


"Look after everyone for me, especially Adam and Molly, I love
you all more than you will ever know.


All my love


Faye xxxxxxxxxxxxx"


2. The second letter was released Thursday, addressed to her
local member of parliament.


"Representative of the House of Commons,


"I am writing to inform you of my situation. I am a British
service person currently being held in Iran.


"I would like you all to know of the treatment I have received
here. The Iranian people are kind, considerate, warm,
compassionate and very hospitable.


"They have brought me no harm but have looked after me well. I
have been fed, clothed and well cared for.


"Unfortunately during the course of our mission we entered into
Iranian waters.


"Even through our wrongdoing, they have still treated us well and
humanely, which I am and always will be eternally grateful.


"I ask the representatives of the House of Commons, after the
Government have promised that this type of incident would not
happen again, why have they let this occur, and why has the
Government not been questioned over this?


"Isn't it time for us to start withdrawing our forces from Iraq
and let them determine their own future?


"Faye Turney 27/3/07."

