

European Union foreign ministers meet Friday to discuss how best
to achieve the goal of supervised independence for Kosovo, aware
that failure could imperil security in the volatile Balkans.


The ministers, holding two days of informal talks in Bremen,
northern Germany, will study a new paper by EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana and Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn on
plans for a massive EU civilian mission there.


On Saturday, the second day of their talks, the foreign ministers
will turn their attention to the issue of dealing with the new
Palestinian unity government, and how to push forward a renewed
Arab League Middle East peace initiative.


The EU is hoping that a meeting of the international Quartet on
Middle East peace -- the US, the UN and Russia are the other
partners -- can be held next month.


While not on the agenda for this informal meeting, British
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett is likely to seek solidarity
from her EU partners over the issue of 15 British naval personnel
detained by Iran.


Solana has promised that London can expect full support on the
issue.


The UN Security Council on Thursday adopted a watered-down
statement expressing "grave concern" at the detention of 15
British crew members but stopped well short of a British call to
criticize Tehran.


On Kosovo, the focus of Friday's discussions, the foreign
ministers will hold their first major talks since UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari presented the UN with his final proposals for the
breakway Serbian province's future status.


After over a year of fruitless talks between Serbian and Kosovar
authorities, Ahtisaari recommended that the Serbian province be
awarded "independence, supervised by the international
community".


Solana warned Thursday that any European Union failure to help
Kosovo achieve its new status could imperil security in the
volatile Balkans.


"We do not have the right to fail. We are talking about the
stability of the Balkans," he told lawmakers at the European
Parliament in Brussels.


The EU has a key role to play in Kosovo under Ahtisaari's plan.
Most of the responsibility for ensuring the smooth transfer of
power from the UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to the province's
nascent institutions will fall to the EU, with NATO playing the
key security role.


Also an as-yet unnamed "EU special representative" would "oversee
the implementation of the settlement, and have some clearly
defined and reviewable executive powers".


The future presence from the EU's point of view would involve
some 1,300-1,500 international police, judges, prosecutors, and
customs officials based in Pristina.


The total cost to the whole international community of
supervising the move to independence is estimated at between
1.3-1.5 billion euros in the three years from 2008-2010 and one
issue for the EU foreign ministers is where will the money come
from.


Rehn said last week that he would ask in Bremen for EU member
countries and others to help fund the mission. The EU's executive
arm, the European Commission, sees Kosovo as a potential future
member.


The UN Security Council is set to debate Ahtisaari's plan next
month, and tensions are high in the Balkans region, with the
ethnic-Albanians impatient for independence and Belgrade
determined to hold on to part of its territory.


Russia, which wields a Security Council veto, opposes Kosovan
independence and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said
Thursday that Ahtisaari "will fail" if he pursues his current
plan for the province.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the large separatist
minded ethnic-Albanian majority.

