

North Korea's nuclear programmes and wartime sexual slavery will
be among the agenda items when the Japanese and South Korean
foreign ministers meet this weekend, officials say.


Song Min-soon and Japan's Taro Aso will hold talks Saturday on
the South Korean holiday island of Jeju, in a follow-up to Song's
visit to Tokyo last December.


The two Koreas, Japan, China, Russia and the United States make
up a forum negotiating the scrapping of the North's nuclear
programmes in exchange for aid and diplomatic benefits.


North Korea agreed in principle last month to denuclearise, under
a deal which also foresees normalisation of relations with Japan
and the US. But progress has been stalled by a dispute over its
frozen bank accounts.


A meeting this month on normalising Japan-North Korea relations
broke down when Tokyo insisted on getting answers about the fate
of kidnapped citizens.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies. It returned five victims and their
families and says the rest are dead.


Japan says the other abductees are alive and that more Japanese
were snatched than Pyongyang has admitted. It says that until
there are "positive developments" on abductions, it will not help
fund aid promised under the February 13 six-nation accord.


Seoul in the past has criticised Tokyo's insistence on raising
abductions during six-party talks.


A senior Japanese diplomat told reporters the two countries have
the same basic approach on North Korea and Aso would seek
understanding of his country's position on abductees.


Japan, in turn, had "no explicit complaint" about South Korea's
decision to resume bilateral aid to the North even before
denuclearisation.


The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Aso would
also seek a briefing on a US-South Korea free trade agreement
expected to be clinched early Saturday.


He said this could hit Japanese exporters competing with South
Korean firms in the US market.


South Korea has said it will raise recent comments by Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which angered Asian nations occupied
by Japan in the 1930s and 40s.


Abe was quoted as saying there is no evidence that Tokyo had
coerced "comfort women" to serve in wartime brothels for its
troops.


South Korea, which still has bitter memories of its brutal
1910-45 colonisation by Japan, expressed "deep regrets" at the
remarks.


Abe has since said he sincerely stands by a previous Tokyo
government's 1993 apology for wartime sex slavery.


"I don't think this matter will take up much time (in Jeju)," the
diplomat said.


He said Abe's remarks had been taken out of context. Aso was
expected to "make a clear explanation of Mr Abe's reported
comments and we hope this explanation will be well received."


The ministers will also discuss the second phase of a joint
historical research project aimed at healing old wounds.


A dispute over a chain of islets called Dokdo in Korea and
Takeshima in Japan is also expected to be raised. The two sides
want to agree rules for marine surveys around the islands "to
avoid any unfortunate incident or clash in the future," the
diplomat said.

