

US and South Korean negotiators continued to haggle Friday over a
free trade agreement just hours before a deadline expires as
opponents in both nations stepped up their protests against any
accord.


Talks were expected to go down to the wire and there were
conflicting reports on how wide the negotiating gap was.


"Except for some of the issues, the two have made substantial
progress," the finance and economy ministry said in a report to
parliament.


Presidents Roh Moo-Hyun and George W. Bush, in a telephone
conversation Thursday, agreed to empower their negotiators to
conclude a deal in time with "maximum flexibility," South Korea's
presidential spokesman said.


The negotiators briefed Roh Friday after he returned from a
Middle East trip.


"During the briefing session, the Korean negotiators reported a
little progress, though key disputes remained in place," said
spokesman Yoon Seung-yong.


The president told them "to do their best for the national
interest until the last moment," he said.


"The Korean government will not seal a low-level FTA with the US,
with key disputed issues excluded," the spokesman said.


The two sides have until 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, or 6:00 pm
Friday in Washington, to reach agreement.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday if it is to be
passed while Bush still has authority to "fast-track" trade
legislation -- meaning legislators can approve or reject the deal
but cannot amend it.


Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-seok, quoted by Yonhap
news agency, said "some progress" was made on farm products but
differences were still wide over how to cut tariffs on beef and
oranges.


The auto trade, which hugely benefits Seoul, was the focus of
complaints by US Democrats in Congress while Korean protesters
have tended to focus on agriculture.


US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other senior Democrats
described the proposed deal as a "one-way street" in Seoul's
favour.


In a letter Wednesday to US Trade Representative Susan Schwab,
they highlighted the auto market. Seoul sold some 800,000
vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the United States last
year, while US firms exported only some 4,000 vehicles the other
way.


The letter said the proposed deal "is completely inadequate in
the face of Korea's longstanding iron curtain to American
manufactured products."


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006 and some studies show this
could rise by about 20 percent with a free trade agreement.


But tens of thousands of Korean farmers, workers and other
activists who fear for their jobs have taken to the streets in
occasionally violent protests since the tough negotiations began
10 months ago.


The Korean Alliance Against the Korea-US FTA said it plans an
evening candlelight protest in Seoul with more than 10,000
people. Police said about 10,000 riot police will be deployed in
the city.


Apart from autos, agriculture has been a key obstacle. South
Korea insists rice be excluded from any deal and is resisting
pressure for quick tariff cuts on other sensitive food items.


The US wants Korea to open its markets to US beef, both by
cutting tariffs and scrapping other barriers.


Before a 2003 import ban imposed over fears of mad cow disease,
South Korea was the third largest market for US beef with annual
purchases worth 850 million dollars.


Seoul last year lifted the ban and agreed to accept US boneless
beef but it then rejected three shipments after discovering tiny
bone fragments.

