

Slovenia's left-wing opposition, having regrouped after a split
in its main party, is poised to challenge the ruling centre-right
coalition at next year's general elections with a new and
stronger leadership.


The Liberal Democracy party (LDS), which took credit for the
country's swift transition to democracy following independence
from communist Yugoslavia in 1991, and remained in power until
2004, has now been overtaken by a more moderate centre-left
rival.


Earlier this month, four Liberal deputies, including former prime
minister Anton Rop, joined the rival opposition Social Democratic
party (SD), after six LDS deputies had already split to form a
new group in parliament, Zares.


Another deputy left the LDS this week amid rumours in local media
that more departures were expected in the following days.


The desertion of 11 MPs -- amid criticism of the party's hardline
leadership -- put the Social Democrats in the opposition driving
seat, with European deputy Borut Pahor as party leader.


This 44-year-old professor, now the de facto opposition leader,
is charismatic, enjoying the limelight as a former fashion model
and as an adept of a gruelling sport, triathlon.


"This is a great day. I expect great success at the next
elections", scheduled for autumn 2008, Pahor said following the
switch of four Liberal MPs to his party.


Unlike the LDS, which opposed any cooperation with the
government, the Social Democrats are prepared to compromise with
Prime Minister Janez Jansa's centre- right coalition in order to
carry out much needed financial and social reforms.


With 14 seats in the 90-seat assembly, Pahor's SD is now the
second largest party in parliament, behind the ruling centre-
right Slovenian Democratic Party (SDS) with 29 deputies.


Meanwhile, the Liberals have dwindled from 23 to 12 seats.


If elections were held today, the Social Democrats and Jansa's
"Democrats" -- currently in decline -- would each have 19 percent
of the vote, a survey published last week by the social science
faculty at Ljubljana University showed.


But the failure by Jansa's Democrats to deliver on promised
reforms has increased support for the left again, Vlado Miheljak,
a leading political analyst, told AFP.


"After a period of support for centre-right ideas, a strong
majority in Slovenia is again identifying with the left," he
said.


The LDS, led by Slovenia's current President Janez Drnovsek, won
the first parliamentary elections in an independent Slovenia in
1992, claiming victory again in 1996 and 2000.


But it lost popularity after Drnovsek left the party in 2002 to
run for president.


His successor Anton Rop failed to reorganise the party and he was
replaced by a more radical faction led by Jelko Kacin, whose
hardline approach was one of the reasons many LDS deputies
recently deserted the party.


"I believe there are no challenges for me in the LDS as it is
today," Rop told journalists as he left the Liberals to join the
Social Democrats.


Slovenia will elect a new president at the end of the year.


This small, prosperous country of two million, which smoothly
joined the euro- zone last January, will also face a major
challenge when it holds the European Union presidency in the
first half of 2008.

