

A dissident Catholic priest defiantly shouted "Down with the
Communist Party" as he went on trial in Vietnam on Friday with
four co-defendants for spreading propaganda against the state.


Father Nguyen Van Ly, 60 -- who has already spent a total of 14
years in jail for his activism -- could face up to 20 more years
behind bars if convicted by the court in the central city of Hue.


Police say he is a founding member of the outlawed "Bloc 8406"
pro-democracy coalition, named after its April 8 launch last
year, and a driving force behind the banned Vietnam Progression
Party and another political group.


The other defendants all admitted to be members of the Vietnam
Progression Party, one of several grassroots organisations to
emerge last year in Vietnam, where the government controls the
media and all political activity.


Ly's co-defendants -- founding committee chairman Nguyen Phong,
32, office secretary Hoang Thi Anh Dao, 21, technical advisor
Nguyen Binh Thanh, 51, and teacher Le Thi Le Hang, 44 -- all face
the same charge.


Authorities in Hue took the unusual step of allowing foreign
media and diplomats into the courtroom for the first few minutes
of the trial and letting them watch proceedings via closed-
circuit television.


But the sound feed from the court to the media room was briefly
cut after a gaunt-looking and handcuffed Ly twice yelled "Down
with the Communist Party" before a policeman could cover his
mouth with his hand.


Judge Bui Quoc Hiep reprimanded Ly, saying, "If you violate the
rules for a third time, if you don't keep silent, we will ask the
police to take you out of the courtroom." Ly was later moved to a
separate holding area.


Phong told the court he had drafted the party's charter and
platform, and written a "call for the establishment of non-
communist political parties" in Vietnam, citing documents that
have been published online.


The trial, set to last just one day, will be the first of several
expected in coming months against prominent pro-democracy
advocates, also including two Hanoi human rights lawyers detained
this month.


Ly -- who has been jailed three times since the 1970s for
peaceful activism against the state -- is accused of resuming his
political activities after he was freed from jail in a 2005
amnesty and placed under house arrest.


He has in the past drawn the ire of the government by submitting
written testimony to the US Commission on International Religious
Freedom.


Diplomats from the European Union, the United States, Australia,
Sweden and Switzerland attended the trial in Hue, the former
royal capital.


Media rights watchdog Reporters Without Borders called on the
court not to impose prison sentences in the case.


"Father Ly's trial is a very important test for the credibility
of the Vietnamese judicial system," said the Paris-based group in
a statement.


"Vietnam's constitution protects free expression, but the
Communist Party does not tolerate criticism. We call on the
judges to adhere to the law and acquit the defendants."


Police raided Ly's residence on February 18 and seized computers,
mobile phone cards, Internet connection devices and stacks of
documents, and moved him to the Ben Cui parish, about 20
kilometres (12 miles) from Hue.


Computers, equipments and printers were exhibited as evidence in
court on Friday.


Under article 88 of Vietnam's criminal code, which bans
"propagating against" the state, he would face three to 12 years'
jail if found guilty, or a 20-year sentence for "particularly
serious crimes."


In coming months two other dissidents, arrested on March 6, are
expected to be tried on the same charges -- Hanoi human rights
lawyer Nguyen Van Dai and his colleague Le Thi Cong Nhan, also a
member of the Vietnam Progression Party.


Vietnam -- one of the world's five remaining communist-ruled
states alongside China, North Korea, Laos and Cuba -- has been
adamant that it will prosecute those who oppose the government.


"The Vietnamese constitution states that Vietnam has a one-party
political system," Deputy Public Security Minister Senior
Lieutenant General Nguyen Van Huong was quoted as saying by the
Thanh Nien daily last week.


"It's illegal if some people want to establish another party, not
to mention secretly inciting other people to join their
organisation and aim to overthrow the existing government."

