

Struggling world champion Grant Hackett said Friday he was
undecided whether to swim in the 1500-metres freestyle at the
world championships, but his sponsors are expected to stick by
him.


Hackett has lost his 400/800m freestyle world titles and said he
will wait until Saturday before deciding whether to defend his
1500m world crown, which he has held for the last four world
championships.


The Australian superstar admits he is struggling to come to terms
with the biggest form slump of his career after he was a distant
second-last in the 800m final on Wednesday.


"I am not going to speculate whether I will swim or not," world
record holder Hackett told a press conference.


"It is in question and I am going to have a consultation with
management and (Australian head coach) Alan Thompson and see how
I feel after my swims today and play it by ear."


He said he wanted to swim but would see how he was feeling before
making a final decision.


"I am not feeling fantastic, it is not an ideal situation heading
into the meet, I was always honest and up front about my
preparation and I didn't think it was this bad.


"I have had to be honest with myself in the last 24 hours."


When Hackett's anguished face was shown after finishing seventh
in the 800m, host broadcaster the Nine Network cut to a string of
advertisements featuring the star.


The sponsors were expecting to feed off images of the swimming
legend punching the air victoriously, having won the race.


Instead, the advertising images of a smiling Hackett were a stark
contrast to the pictures beamed out of Melbourne's Rod Laver
Arena.


Hackett earns more than 1.5 million dollars (1.2 million US) a
year from sponsors and ranks as one of the leading money-earners
in Australian sport.


One sponsorship expert said the advertising space would have been
bought at a premium specifically to milk the moment.


Barry O'Brien of Total Advertising and Communications said
Hackett's value could not be undone by one bad meet.


"He is a class act in the pool and outside of the pool so
sponsors should not change anything," O'Brien told The Australian
newspaper.


O'Brien said he expected sponsors were again expected to book the
advertising space immediately after the finish of the 1500m on
Sunday, even if Hackett fails to qualify or doesn't even swim in
the event.


Australian swimming is facing a testing time ahead of next year's
Beijing Olympics with the highly-marketable Ian Thorpe now
retired and the other poster boy Hackett in the midst of a career
crisis.

