

Park Ji-Sung claims Manchester United are ready to win all eight
of their remaining Premiership games this season in order to
guarantee title glory.


United, six points clear of closest challengers Chelsea at the
top of the table, face Blackburn at Old Trafford on Saturday
aiming to avenge last season's shock 2-1 home defeat against Mark
Hughes's team.


Six wins from their remaining fixtures would be enough to seal
the club's ninth Premiership title, but South Korean midfielder
Park insists that United have no intention of taking their foot
off the pedal.


And the former PSV Eindhoven star admits that Sir Alex Ferguson's
men are determined to round off the season in style by racing to
the title.


Park said: "Everybody at United has a great desire to win the
Premiership title this season, but in order to do that we know
what we have to do and it's plain to see that we need to keep
winning.


"We enjoy the pressure of maintaining our good form and we expect
pressure on us in every game between now and the end of the
season.


"But rather than let that bother us, we are ready for it and we
have the confidence to know that we can win every game.


"When I won the Dutch league title with PSV Eindhoven it was a
similar situation, but having to win every game isn't a burden.
We just tried to enjoy each game and in the end we won the
title."


Blackburn striker Benni McCarthy, who once scored a crucial
Champions League goal against United for Porto, admits that the
Lancashire club's focus is now firmly fixed on beating Chelsea in
April's FA Cup semi-final to seal a possible Final clash against
United at Wembley.


But the South African insists that Rovers are capable of
repeating last season's Old Trafford win, despite the absence of
key midfielder David Bentley due to suspension.


McCarthy said: "I think United will win the league this year, so
playing them at Old Trafford is about as difficult as it gets in
the Premiership. But Blackburn have done well against United
under Mark Hughes so we'll look to continue that.


"Everybody is excited about the semi-final, though. It doesn't
matter that we'll face Chelsea, we're playing to win.


"We know it will be tough, but it's a one-off game and we're
genuinely confident of reaching Wembley. We knocked Arsenal out
and have enjoyed a really good run in the Cup.


"When I was a kid in South Africa, I always dreamed of playing in
an FA Cup final at Wembley. Now that the stadium is open it could
come true - and it might be against Manchester United, but I've
always said that dreams can come true."


United face AS Roma in the Champions League quarter-final first-
leg next Wednesday, but boss Ferguson is backing his players to
handle the pressure of chasing trophies on three fronts.


He said: "It's an exciting time, there is no question about that,
and hopefully we can capitalise on the players' form and
determination to do well.


"If we do that, I'm sure we'll be OK. The players, and their
attitude to the way they're playing at the moment, gives me
confidence and encouragement that they are enjoying their
football."

