

A Vietnamese court on Friday sentenced dissident Catholic priest
Nguyen Van Ly to eight years in jail for spreading propaganda
against the state.


"The behaviour of the defendants amounts to the crime of
spreading propaganda against the Socialist state," judge Bui Quoc
Hiep said in the court in the central city of Hue.


Police said Ly was a founding member of the banned "Bloc 8406"
pro-democracy coalition, named after its April 8 launch last
year, and a driving force behind the outlawed Vietnam Progression
Party and another political group.


Prosecutor Tran Ly Thao called Ly's behaviour an "extremely
dangerous violation of national security" that also breached
church rules, and had demanded a sentence of seven to eight
years.


Ly's four co-defendants -- two men and two women -- received
lesser punishments ranging from six years in prison to an
18-month suspended sentence.


They all admitted membership of the Vietnam Progression Party,
one of several grassroots organisations to emerge last year in
Vietnam, where the government controls the media and all
political activity.


At the start of the trial, which only lasted for a few hours, a
gaunt-looking and handcuffed Ly twice yelled "Down with the
Communist Party" before a policeman could cover his mouth with
his hand.


Ly, 60, has been jailed three times since the 1970s for a total
of 14 years for peaceful activism against the state.


He stood accused of resuming his political activities after he
was freed from jail in a 2005 amnesty and placed under house
arrest.


Police raided Ly's residence on February 18 and seized computers,
mobile phone cards, Internet connection devices and stacks of
documents, and moved him to the Ben Cui parish, about 20
kilometres (12 miles) from Hue.


Computers, equipments and printers were exhibited as evidence in
court on Friday.


The trial was the first of several expected in coming months
against prominent pro-democracy advocates, including two Hanoi
human rights lawyers detained this month.

