

Japan on Friday reported the first fall in consumer prices for 10
months as it struggles to defeat its decade-old deflation
scourge, clouding prospects for another interest rate rise.


Core consumer prices, which exclude volatile prices of fresh
food, fell by 0.1 percent in February compared with a year
earlier, in line with market expectations after a cooling of
world oil prices.


Overall consumer prices declined 0.2 percent. Both were down for
the first time since April last year.


The return to negative inflation came in the same month as the
Bank of Japan's raised interest rates to 0.5 percent as part of
efforts to return to a more normal monetary policy after years of
virtually free credit.


Richard Jerram, chief economist at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo,
said it would be difficult for the central bank to justify
raising interest rates again while consumer prices were falling.


"It looks as if you should see negative numbers (for consumer
price changes) running through much of this year. It suggests
that monetary policy is too tight and that must be having a drag
on the domestic revival," he said.


But Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief economist for Japan at Credit
Suisse First Boston, said markets were mistaken if they believed
that the BoJ would be deterred by the soft consumer inflation
figures.


"As long as the economy remains stable and there's a limited risk
of going into recession again, the BoJ can hike interest rates at
a steady pace, like 25 basis points every six months," he said.


The core consumer price index (CPI) for Tokyo alone -- a leading
indicator for nationwide price trends -- pointed to a continued
easing of consumer prices, dropping by 0.1 percent in March from
a year earlier.


Japan also reported a 0.2 percent fall in industrial output in
February versus January but this was enough to beat market
expectations for a 0.6 percent decline.


Year-on-year, production was up 2.6 percent and manufacturers
predicted gains for the following two months.


Meanwhile average monthly household spending rose 1.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, the government said.


The unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.0 percent while the
total number of unemployed dipped by 70,000 to 2.7 million in
February.


Asia's largest economy had been trapped in a deflationary spiral
since the late 1990s but is now in the midst of its longest
sustained recovery since World War II.


The Bank of Japan in February doubled its key interest rates to
0.5 percent, the first rise since last July when it ended its
highly unorthodox policy of almost free credit.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has made clear his desire to raise
Japan's low interest rates, which he says may store up trouble
for the future.


He says consumer prices remain broadly positive despite the
recent downturn, while asset prices are rising, with the value of
Japanese land up for the first time in 16 years.


"It is a very interesting situation because we have asset
inflation and price deflation going hand in hand," said Noriko
Hama, a professor at the Doshisha Business School in Kyoto.


"In this world of globalised competition, companies still remain
in a very weak bargaining position in terms of price setting,"
she added.


Faced with fierce competition, notably from China and the rest of
Asia, Japanese companies are still reluctant to award pay rises.


Average monthly cash earnings for regular employees fell 0.7
percent in February, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare
said.


"This may reflect an accelerated shift in the employment
structure from baby boomers to younger workers," suggested
Barclays Capital economist Takuji Aida.

