

Global warming will hit the Americas hard, generating more
violent storms and heatwaves and threatening native Inuit habitat
in the north, while Latin America will face a heightened risk of
water shortages, species extinction and even hunger, UN experts
say in a report to be unveiled next week.


By the end of this century, each hemisphere can expect severe
water stress and unless governments prepare, rising temperatures
are likely to cause "heat- related mortality, pollution, storm-
related fatalities and infectious disease," the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warns.


With much of its population located on or near coasts, the United
States is exposed to extreme weather events -- as Hurricane
Katrina showed in 2005 -- and drought may affect cities that have
sprung up in its deserts.


In Latin America, global warming is melting Andean glaciers and
threatening the Amazonian forest, swathes of which may gradually
become savannas in the worst scenarios.


The report, which deals with the impacts of global warming, is
the second in a three-volume review of the evidence for climate
change, the most recent since 2001.


A final draft of the 1,400-page document obtained by AFP says
that even if dramatic measures are taken to reduce the carbon
dioxide (CO2) emissions that drive warming, temperatures
worldwide will continue to climb for decades to come, unleashing
unwelcome changes across the planet.


And if nothing at all is done to mitigate climate change, the
impact in some of the world's regions could be catastrophic by
century's end.


By 2080, the report says, it is likely that 1.1 to 3.2 billion
people worldwide will experience water scarcity, 200 to 600
million will suffer from hunger, and each year, an additional two
to seven million people will be victims of coastal flooding.


The human toll will be heaviest, experts say, in Africa and Asia,
where hundreds of millions in low-lying "mega-river deltas" are
threatened by rising sea levels, and tens of millions more by the
spread of infectious disease.


Some regions of north America -- especially the northernmost
reaches of Canada and Alaska -- will likewise be severely
challenged. But overall the continent is less vulnerable than
others, because it has the resources and skills to adapt more
easily than poorer counterparts.


Latin America may have between 100 and 400 million inhabitants
struggling to procure fresh water by 2080, according to the
report, and tens of millions at risk of hunger. Even in the
United States, climate change will put tremendous pressure on the
country's heavily utilized water resources.


Over the two last decades, Alaska and Siberia have been among the
fastest- warming spots on the planet. As a result, native Inuit
say their way of life is now in peril.


In some areas, melting permafrost -- today a misnomer -- is
wrecking the foundations of their homes, while shorter seasons of
ice cover and thinner ice make fishing and hunting for seals
difficult and dangerous.


Farther south, if global temperatures rise no more than 2 C (3.6
F)  compared to 1990 levels, parts of the United States and
Canada may actually enjoy higher crop yields, milder winters and
expanding forests.


But as the 21st century unfolds, those benefits are very likely
to be swamped by the negative impact of warming.


Rising sea levels in both North and Latin America will place
enormous stress on low-lying and heavily populated delta regions,
swamping delicately-balanced mangroves in Brazil, Ecuador and
Colombia while accelerating shoreline erosion and flooding in the
United States.


In the first volume of its report, issued in February, the IPCC
predicted world temperatures would rise by 1.8 C to 4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F) by 2100, depending on how much greenhouse gas is
emitted into the atmosphere. A third volume, issued at the end of
April, will look at ways of reducing those emissions.


In the Brussels meeting next week, the second volume will be
issued on Friday after delegates hammer out a "summary for policy
makers," distilling in a couple of dozen pages their most
important findings.


The draft summary concludes that global warming is "unequivocal,"
that human activity is the main driver, and that "changes in
climate are now affecting physical and biological systems on
every continent."


Across the planet, 20 to 30 percent of animal and plant species
face extinction if temperatures rise 1.5 C to 2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5
F).


Increases greater than 4 C (7.2 F) above 1990-2000 levels would
lead to "major increases in vulnerability" that would exceed "the
adaptive capacity of many systems," the report says.

