

Zimbabwe's main opposition said Friday it was ready to meet
President Robert Mugabe's party under South Africa's mediation,
but holds no hope the dialogue will stem the country's spiralling
crisis.


Southern African leaders meeting in Tanzania on Thursday
appointed South African President Thabo Mbeki to facilitate talks
between the Zimbabwe's feuding political parties in a bid to end
the escalating political and economic crisis gripping the
country.


But the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said
while it was prepared to hold talks with Mugabe's party, it did
not expect the talks to bring immediate relief to the country's
woes.


"We will definitely meet him but there is no illusion," Tendai
Biti, secretary general of the main MDC faction told AFP,
referring to longtime mediator of the Zimbabwe crisis.


"Even if you have dialogue tomorrow, how does that reduce
inflation from 1,730 percent to, say, two percent, or reduce an
unemployment rate of 80 per cent," he said.


The MDC which called for Mugabe's removal from office if the
fortunes of the country are to be turned around.


"The crisis is with us for some time with or without dialogue,"
he added.


Spokeswoman of a breakaway faction of the MDC, Priscilla
Misihairabwi, said they welcomed the proposed dialogue if there
were a detailed timetable and agenda on the talks.


"Until that dialogue is linked to the elections .. then we will
continue to be where we are," said Misihairabwi.


Mbeki, who has been blamed for his quite diplomacy approach to
the Zimbabwe crisis, has mediated in the crisis for years, but
opposition say nothing much has come out of it.


"We have been on this road before. It's not the first time that
President Mbeki has been appointed to mediate in this crisis and
we wonder what is different now that will bring any hope when our
leaders are being butchered, our offices are being raided and our
equipment destroyed," said Biti.


"What kind of dialogue can you have under such circumstances," he
said.


The state-run Herald daily cited Mugabe as saying Mbeki would
talk to the opposition and see whether there is need for
dialogue, but warned the opposition against "engaging in
violence,".


Asked if the MDC was disappointed at the outcome of the regional
talks which also called for lifting of travel bans on Mugabe and
his aides, Biti said: "I am not disappointed because I was not
expecting anything from the summit."


He also expressed concern at the SADC summit's hyping of the
sanctions and land reforms as the root cause of the country's
crises.


"The truth of the crisis is bad governance, violence, fascism ...
the first thing is to say Robert Mugabe go away," he said.

