

Newcastle defender Craig Moore admits the club's players cannot
allow their season to fizzle out despite being left with nothing
to play for following the UEFA Cup exit at the hands of AZ
Alkmaar.


Glenn Roeder's side face relegation-threatened Manchester City at
St James' Park on Saturday with only a slim chance of bridging
the nine-point gap between themselves and the top six spot that
would guarantee European football.


Having under-performed this term, Newcastle's days as a club with
Champions League aspirations appear little more than a distant
memory.


But Australia international Moore insists that Roeder's squad
have a duty to the club's supporters to ensure that they end the
season on a high.


Moore said: "Going out in Europe earlier this month was a major
disappointment, but you need to pick yourself up for the home
fans. If we don't do that, our fans will not be happy.


"They cannot see us moping about and we need to get back to
business and do that as quickly as possible. That is all you can
do in this situation.


"So we need to try to get back to winning ways immediately and
that has to be our mentality in the last few games of the season.


"We are professional footballers and you have to go out to try to
win games. Although we are coming to the end of the season, it is
still important for Newcastle United to finish in the best
possible way."


Former Newcastle defender Stuart Pearce remains under pressure as
Manchester City manager due to the club's flirtation with
relegation this season.


Victory at Middlesbrough in their last league game has taken the
heat off Pearce, but defeat at Newcastle would raise the stakes
again ahead of the vital Good Friday clash with fellow strugglers
Charlton at Eastlands.


The City boss admits his team has under-performed this term and
he conceded that this weekend could be crucial for the club's
hopes of avoiding the drop.


Pearce said: "It is a tough league to carry out your trade in and
the pressures are always the same in this league. I am under
pressure to get a result at Newcastle and then it will be the
same next Friday.


"But in my opinion any three teams from eight can still get
relegated. This Saturday, with the games ticking away, it will be
a pointer as to who can and who can't go down.


"We just have to make sure that we aren't one of those bottom
three and finish top of the pile of that eight.


"We are probably a couple of wins shy of what we should have been
this season and we have to make sure that between now and the
summer we get enough wins under our belt to make to ensure we
have a decent finish to the season."

