

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said in interviews published
on Friday that the Jewish state could clinch a comprehensive
peace deal with its enemies within five years.


"There is a real possibility that Israel can sign a global peace
accord with its enemies within five years," Olmert said in an
interview with the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot.


Asked whether he meant "all of the Arab world," Olmert said
"yes."


Olmert was speaking after Arab leaders revived a five-year-old
peace plan for comprehensive peace in the Middle East at a Riyadh
summit.


The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of relations if it
withdraws from all land occupied in the 1967 war and allows the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


"There are things that are happening, which have not happened in
the past, which are developing and ripening," he said, adding
that Israel had to "know how to profit from this occasion,"
Olmert said.


Israel has not accepted the document as it stands, saying
negotiations were needed, notably on the refugee issue.


In an interview with the Maariv newspaper, Olmert said: "I have a
dream. That within five years there will be a global peace accord
in the Middle East."


"There are interesting ideas and we are ready to discuss with the
Saudis their approach and explain to them ours... We will react
prudently and wisely the the aim of creating a dynamic that will
reinforce the process."


Israel currently has peace treaties with only two Arab countries
-- its neighbours Egypt and Jordan.


Although Israel rejected the Arab initiative when it was first
unveiled in 2002, officials have said in recent weeks that the
plan could be a good basis for negotiations if the clauses
granting Palestinian refugees the right of return are dropped.


Israel fiercely opposes allowing refugees to return to lands they
occupied prior to the 1948 war, arguing that the possible influx
of up to four million people would effectively erase the Jewish
character of the state.


But Olmert said late on Thursday that the revived peace
initiative reflected a "revolutionary change" in Arab thinking.


"The countries who count in the Arab world have started to
understand that Israel is not their biggest worry," he said.

