

Rangers assistant manager Ally McCoist has urged his team to halt
Inverness Caledonian Thistle's run of success at Ibrox when the
sides meet on Saturday.


The Highland side have taken five points from their last three
Scottish Premier League games at the home of the Glasgow giants
with a victory and two draws.


Charlie Christie's Caley also defeated Rangers 2-1 in their last
meeting in Inverness in December.


With the Ibrox side chasing second place in the SPL to ensure
Champions League football next season McCoist, assistant to
Walter Smith, is determined there are no further slip ups against
Inverness at Ibrox on Saturday.


He said: "There's no danger of us underestimating Inverness as we
know they have caused us no end of problems this season.


"We are aware of the threat they can cause but we have been in
good form recently and we have to be confident we can win.


"Our aim is to secure second place in the league as soon as
possible and that means we have to keep winning every game.


"Since Walter and I came in we've had a tremendous reaction from
the players but we need to keep it going."


Smith and McCoist have steadied the ship after the disastrous
reign of French boss Paul Le Guen, which led to Rangers
effectively falling out of the championship race in November.


Now the Rangers legend and assistant manager believes it is time
teams, once again, were taught to fear playing at Ibrox.


McCoist said: "When Rangers have been successful in the past
Ibrox has always been like a fortress and a very hard place for
teams to come.


"Recently the opposition have not feared coming here to play us
and have even said so before the match.


"Hopefully we are beginning to change that because we have done
well at Ibrox recently."


Rangers are currently on 61 points, 13 behind Champions-elect
Celtic and seven ahead of third placed Aberdeen with seven games
left to play.


Jimmy Calderwood's Dons have only an outside chance of beating
the Gers to second spot but they will want to ensure they finish
at least third to guarantee UEFA Cup football next season.


On Saturday Aberdeen are away to sixth placed Kilmarnock, who
will be looking to bounce back from their 5-1 thrashing against
Hibernian in the Scottish League Cup final.


The following day the two other sides who are chasing UEFA Cup
football next season - Hibs, on 43 points and Hearts, on 48 -
play each other in the third SPL Edinburgh derby of the season at
Easter Road.


Following the game Hibs will celebrate their League Cup triumph
by parading the trophy in front of their fans.


However, Hearts - under a new interim head coach, Ukrainian
Anatoly Korobochka - will hope to kill off Hibs' European hopes
and ruin their Cup winning party by taking all three points.


SPL leaders Celtic will hope to avoid their third straight SPL
defeat, after losing at home to Rangers and away to Falkirk, when
they take on Dundee United at Tannadice.


Although Gordon Strachan's side will be favourites to take
another step towards their second consecutive SPL title, Craig
Levein's team will be in confident mood after they won 4-0 away
to Hearts in their last match.


In the other SPL games on Saturday bottom of the table
Dunfermline will look to cut the six points advantage second
bottom St Mirren enjoy by winning away to Motherwell.


St Mirren, who have a game in hand over the Pars, can ensure they
maintain the gap with victory away to Falkirk.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Dundee United v Celtic (1130), Falkirk v St Mirren, Kilmarnock v
Aberdeen, Motherwell v Dunfermline, Rangers v Inverness
Caledonian Thistle.


Sunday


Hibernian v Hearts (1300)

