

An unscheduled appearance by a deadly jellyfish has halted
shooting on Hollywood star Kate Hudson's latest feature "Fool's
Gold" in Australia, the film's publicist said Friday.


Hudson and co-star Matthew McConaughey had to cancel filming the
final scene of the adventure picture at Hervey Bay in Queensland
state when a potentially fatal irukandji jellyfish was found in
the water, publicist Fiona Searson said.


"We have a marine expert on the film to ensure everyone's safe
and he found the jellyfish," Searson told AFP.


"We decided not to put the cast into the water because of the
jellyfish."


Searson said the surprise appearance by the jellyfish had not
altered the film's scheduled release date early next year and the
climactic scene would be shot at an alternative location.


"It's an unusual problem to come across," she said. "It's
certainly the first film I've ever worked on where jellyfish have
stopped filming -- only in Australia, I suppose."


The irukandji jellyfish has a thimble-sized translucent body with
30 centimetre (12 inch) trailing stingers containing venom
described by scientists as among the deadliest in the animal
world.


No antidote has been found for the irukandji sting, which causes
excruciating pain and can lead to paralysis and a potentially
fatal rise in blood pressure.


It became the subject of serious research when two tourists, an
American and a Briton, died of so-called "irukandji syndrome" in
Queensland in 2002.


The jellyfish is normally found in warm tropical waters hundreds
of kilometres north of Hervey Bay, and its discovery so far south
has raised concerns that global warming could be extending its
range.


The marine biologist working with the film crew said swimmers
needed to be warned and may have to adopt precautions taken on
northern beaches, where swimmers wear lycra "stinger suits" in
jellyfish-infested waters.


"You're going to at least have to inform tourism and tourists
that there is the potential... I mean these animals have the
potential to kill you," Seymour told ABC radio.

