

Former Australian captain Ian Chappell on Friday suggested what
millions of Indians had been dreading to hear - the great Sachin
Tendulkar should hang up his boots.


Chappell, whose younger brother Greg could be sacked as India's
coach next week following the team's first round exit from the
World Cup, said Tendulkar was past his prime and must retire.


"At the moment he looks like a player trying to eke out a career;
build on a glittering array of statistics," the senior Chappell
wrote in the Mumbai-based Mid-Day newspaper.


"If he really is playing for that reason and not to help win as
many matches as he can for India then he is wasting his time and
should retire immediately."


Tendulkar, one-day cricket's most successful batsman, managed
only 64 runs in three World Cup matches, falling for seven
against Bangladesh and clean bowled for zero against Sri Lanka.


India's stunning loss to Bangladesh and the subsequent defeat to
Sri Lanka saw the 1983 champions and 2003 finalists crash out of
the tournament in their worst World Cup performance since 1979.


India's cricket chiefs will meet in Mumbai on April 6 and 7 to
discuss the World Cup debacle and decide if coach Greg Chappell's
two-year tenure is to be extended.


Ian Chappell said Tendulkar, who turns 34 next month, must decide
soon if he wanted to continue or end a brilliant 18-year career
that has seen him score a record 35 Test and 41 one-day
centuries.


He compared the Indian to another ageing veteran, 37-year-old
West Indian captain Brian Lara, who is Test cricket's leading
batsman with 11,953 runs from 131 matches.


"When you think that for a decade Lara and Tendulkar went head to
head in a wonderful battle of stroke play to establish who was
the best batsman in the world, they are now worlds apart in
effectiveness," Chappell wrote.


"The amazing thing about Lara's brilliant career is the fact that
he hasn't changed his style at all over 17 years.


"This is a credit to his technique and mental strength, as the
ageing process generally makes a player more progressively
conservative.


"Tendulkar hasn't worn as well; his last three or four years have
been a shadow of his former self."


Chappell said a string of tennis elbow, back and shoulder
injuries in recent years had taken a toll on Tendulkar's batting.


"The Indian has suffered a lot of injuries where his play has
deteriorated and there is nothing that melts your mental approach
quicker than physical handicaps," he wrote.


"For whatever reason, Tendulkar hasn't been able to maintain his
extremely high standards for the last few years and unless he can
find a way to recapture this mental approach he's not doing his
team or himself any favours.


"If Tendulkar had found an honest mirror three years ago and
asked the question: 'Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is the best
batsman of all?'


"It would've answered: 'Brian Charles Lara.'


"If he asked that same mirror right now: 'Mirror, mirror on the
wall, should I retire?'


"The answer would be: 'Yes.'"

