

Parents of children held hostage on board a Manila bus refused
Friday to press charges against the hijacker, saying he was a
good man who helped their impoverished community and should be
released.


Some parents said they planned to rally outside the capital's
police headquarters later Friday where Armando Ducat is being
held.


Ducat, who owns a pre-school day centre in a Manila slum
district, and his accomplice, Cesar Carbonell, held 26 of the
children and four teachers hostage Wednesday in a 10-hour
standoff as he railed against corruption in government and
demanded free housing and education for his charges.


Public sympathy is such that the government's department of
social welfare and development, which will represent the children
on behalf of the state in any prosecution, is finding it
difficult building a case without the parents' help.


One of the teachers who was held, Elmer Calleja, told reporters
they would rally to demand the men's release. "We respect Ducat's
beliefs," he said.


Lara Moreno, mother of one of the children, told the Philippine
Star daily that parents have "no plans" to file charges against
Ducat.


She said that while they did not agree with his actions, he was
still seen as a "good man" who tried to help Manila's urban poor.


"We owe him a lot. He gave our children free education, free food
and clothing. He is always there to help," said Rosita Osita,
another parent.


Osita said they could not act against Ducat out of a "sense of
gratitude."


"We don't want him in jail," said Mirabelle Moreno, whose six-
year-old son was on the bus.


"He was just doing what he thought was right and just for us ...
the poor," she told the Philippine Daily Inquirer.


Another parent, Mary Jane dela Cruz, said Ducat was a "good man
who only wanted to help us," and told the Inquirer she would not
press charges.


However, President Gloria Arroyo has told authorities to take
tough action against Ducat and Carbonell to avoid attracting
copycat hostage-takings.


The men are currently in police custody awaiting charges for
kidnapping and carrying illegal firearms.


"The parents are not interested in filing a case against Ducat,"
Marcelino Pedroza, the police superintendent leading the inquiry,
told reporters.


But Justice Secretary Raul Gonzales said the reluctance of the
parents to have charges laid would not prevent the state doing
so.


"What he did was a public offence," he told a press conference,
adding that what Ducat did was an act of terrorism.


To many in the sprawling slum where the children live, Ducat, a
56-year-old civil engineer, is seen as a hero rather than a
criminal.


The day centre he built and owns is regarded as a beacon in the
network of dark, musky alleys and cardboard and tin shacks where
he hoped to mould grimy children into future leaders, or at least
college-educated workers.


He released his hostages after he was allowed on radio and
television to deliver a rambling discourse on poverty, tainted
politics and how the public should join hands in fighting
corruption.

