

China is standing firm against critics hoping to use the Beijing
Olympics to pressure the communist government on human rights,
with tensions expected to rise as the Games draw closer.


China has been forced in recent days to repeatedly defend itself
against moves to link its policies on individual freedoms and
rights, as well as its rule of Tibet, to the hosting of the
world's biggest sporting event from August 8-24 next year.


Beijing's latest defensive efforts came in response to a boycott
call from a French politician and an appeal from a Hollywood star
who said the Beijing Olympics risked being remembered as the
"genocide games".


French presidential candidate Francois Bayrou said last week that
if Beijing continued to block UN Security Council resolutions
condemning Sudan, then "France will do itself honour by refusing
to take part in the Olympic Games".


US film star and UN Goodwill Ambassador Mia Farrow this week
urged firms sponsoring the Olympics to press China over its ties
to the Sudan government, which is accused of involvement in
genocide in its Darfur region.


Farrow's appeal, in a commentary published in the Wall Street
Journal, focused on Hollywood producer Steven Spielberg, a
special artistic consultant to the Beijing organising committee,
as well as corporate Olympic sponsors.


She accused Spielberg, famous for his Nazi holocaust blockbuster
"Schindler's List," of helping to "sanitize Beijing's image" for
the Games.


China's foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said on Thursday that
calls for a boycott and efforts to link the Games to China's
support for the Sudan government were totally wrong.


"People who try to connect the Olympics with Darfur in an attempt
to win ballots or increase their prestige or reputation are
totally wrong," Qin said.


The week before, Liu Jianchao, China's most senior foreign
ministry spokesman suggested that Bayrou and others were ignorant
about China's policies on Sudan.


"The people who put forward such a proposal are not very clear on
China's position on the Darfur issue," Liu said when asked about
Bayrou's boycott call.


China has previously rebuffed other attempts to try to use the
Olympics to force it to improve its domestic human rights record.


In one case China launched a counter-attack against Amnesty
International after the human rights group issued a report
critical of the country's record on freedoms ahead of the Games.


In another case Reporters Without Borders, the Paris-based press
freedom advocate, lifted a boycott call of the Games after China
pledged to remove some reporting restrictions on the foreign
media during the Olympics, while maintaining curbs on the
domestic press.


Brian Bridges, a specialist in sports politics at Hong Kong's
Lingnan university, said that more campaigns will inevitably be
launched in the lead-up to the Games, but that they will have
little impact on China or sponsors.


"China has its own national interests which are predominantly
about energy and national resource supplies, and I think those
protests related to the Olympics are not likely to seriously
disturb Chinese policy," he said.


In her commentary Farrow targetted Olympic sponsors such as Coca-
Cola and Macdonald's by name, as well as Spielberg.


"This commentary will make the sponsors and Spielberg sit up and
listen,"  said Bridges.


"But they already know that China has a rather dismal domestic
human rights record and have already factored that in to the
decision, thinking the commercial positives or other benefits
outweigh the negatives."

