

Anti-coup protesters Friday brushed off warnings from security
forces and vowed to hold the biggest rally yet against Thailand's
junta, despite the announcement of elections for December.


Army-installed Premier Surayud Chulanont late Thursday laid out
the most detailed plan yet for Thailand's transition back to
democracy, saying a referendum would be held on a new
constitution in September, followed by parliamentary polls in
December.


He also rejected calls from the junta leader, General Sonthi
Boonyaratglin, to declare a state of emergency in Bangkok to
crack down on swelling anti-coup protests.


Nattawut Saikuar, one of the protest organisers, praised Surayud
for standing up to the junta but said the demonstration Friday
evening would go ahead to draw public attention to the
"irregularities" of military rule.


"We saw a democratic spirit in Prime Minister Surayud, in that he
chose not to declare an emergency in Bangkok and in his
announcement on polling dates," he said.


"Even though government is clearly trying to ease the pressure by
setting election dates, there could still be a backlash because
people will closely watch to see how the junta and government
work to achieve that goal," Nattawut said.


Nattawut is the director of People Television (PTV), a satellite
station set up by allies of ousted prime minister Thaksin
Shinawatra but blocked by the military.


The station has joined with pro-democracy activists in staging a
series of small but growing protests in recent weeks, with some
2,000 people rallying against the junta last weekend.


Authorities in Bangkok closed a major park on Thursday in a bid
to thwart the protest, but Nattawut said the demonstration would
be moved to a location near the city's municipal centre and
predicted it would draw the biggest crowd yet.


"We will speak about the irregularities under military
dictatorship," he said.


Chief among the concerns of the protesters is the new
constitution being drafted by a panel hand-picked by the junta,
which critics fear will merely cement the military's role in
government.


Sonthi and other generals have publicly called for a provision to
allow an appointed prime minister, despite opposition from
Surayud.


Other officials have called for an appointed Senate, and for
establishing Buddhism as an official religion -- something
critics fear could exacerbate a three-year separatist insurgency
in Muslim-majority provinces.


The protest movement is beginning to create an odd coalition of
allies, with some pro-democracy groups who last year had
protested against Thaksin now joining forces with his allies in
rallying against the junta, analysts said.


"A lot of pro-Thaksin (people) have turned against the coup,
understandably. But a lot of anti-Thaksin (people) have turned
against the coup, the military and the government," political
analyst Thitinan Pongsudhirak said.


"This coalition (of protesters) is going to grow because the coup
has gone wrong," he added, pointing to a series of missteps by
the government ranging from bungled economic policies to
confusion over the management of Bangkok's new airport.


Michael Nelson, a political science lecturer at Chulalongkorn
University, said the announcement of election dates would do
little to appease them.


"For them, the problem is the coup government. Its announcement
of December elections is irrelevant. They want the military
government to step down now," he said.


"Given the record of this government, protesters were not
convinced by Surayud's announcement," he said.


"It's just April, and December is a long way to go. Anything can
happen."

