

Canada's conservative government blasted as "cheap politics"
opposition bids Thursday to curb greenhouse gas emissions.


"This is clearly more about politics than it is about serving the
environment," John Baird, the environment minister, told
journalists, referring to amendments made by left wing opposition
parties to the Clean Air Act.


The minister, visibly ruffled, said the opposition's moves
amounted to "cheap politics, theatrics and a lot of talk."


The governing conservatives presented in October, 2006 their bill
to reduce Canada's carbon emissions by 45-65 percent by 2050, but
it was panned by the three opposition parties for setting no
deadlines on cuts before 2020.


The conservatives agreed to have a special committee work on
changes to the bill, which was then re-drafted by the opposition
in a version that would make Canada meet the international Kyoto
Protocol for reducing carbon emissions.


The Kyoto targets commit countries to reduce emissions to six
percent below 1990 levels by 2012. Prime Minister Stephen
Harper's ruling conservatives say the targets, agreed to by the
previous Liberal government, are unattainable.


The leader of one of the opposition parties, Jack Layton of the
Neo-Democrats (NDP), said the amendments made "a piece of
legislation that can put Canada into the forefront in dealing
with the climate change crisis."


"Now what we have is one of the best pieces of legislation that
Canadians could possibly put together. Let's hope that the prime
minister will respect the work that was done and find a way to
make sure that it's implemented."


"I have real problems with the change of this bill," Baird said.
"We'll take a period of time to look at the entirety of the
damage that the Liberals have done, and make a call in the
future," he added.


"I can tell you that I'm not happy."


The Liberal party this month also unveiled a plan to fine
polluters who release more than their share of greenhouse gases,
if it is returned to power in 2008.

