

Australian Stuart Appleby launched his title defence at the 5.5
million-dollar Houston Open by seizing a share of the first-round
lead on Thursday.


Appleby carded a 6-under-par 66 to join a trio topping the
leaderboard that also included Americans Kevin Sutherland and
Johnson Wagner.


Trying to get his game in shape for The Masters - the first major
of the season that starts in a week - Appleby completed a solid
round that included seven birdies and one bogey.


"I got off to a good start, teed off on 10 and squeezed some
birdies out early, really set the theme for the day," Appleby
said. "You know, I played decent all day."


Appleby also opened with a 66 last year and cruised to a wire-to-
wire victory. He also won this event in 1999 but has not been
playing anywhere near well enough lately to think about a third
title.


In 20 rounds prior to Thursday, Appleby had not broken 70. He
tied for 13th at the season-opening Mercedes Championship but has
finished no better than 33rd and missed a pair of cuts in six
events since.


However, a return to the Redstone Golf Club may have gotten his
game back on track.


Despite posting his best round of the season, Appleby will be
looking to improve on a round in which he took 28 putts but hit
only half of the fairways.


"I didn't drive the ball that great as often I felt that I should
have, and I need to get a bit more comfortable on the putting
green," Appleby said.


"I shot 6-under. That's good, but I've got some more work to do."


Both Sutherland and Wagner had bogey-free rounds.


Sutherland, seeking his second PGA Tour victory, had six birdies,
including three in four holes starting at No. 1. He started his
round at the 10th and carded birdies on 11 and 13 on his front
nine.


Sutherland finished second earlier this season at Pebble Beach
but came into Houston struggling. He had missed the cut in his
last two events and tied for 62nd at the Nissan Open.


"I've been a little bit on the erratic side," Sutherland said.
"It usually hasn't been my nature in the past, but, you know, I
think the biggest reason is I've had stretches where I've driven
the ball very poorly.


"I did everything pretty well today. I hit my irons really well
and I putted very well, drove the ball good enough."


Wagner, a rookie who won twice on the Nationwide Tour last
season, also nabbed six birdies to grab a share of the lead.


"First round means nothing," he said. "With 54 holes left,
anything is possible, and I'm going to go out and treat each day
like this one."


Justin Leonard, Jeff Maggert, Vaughn Taylor, Kyle Reifers, Matt
Hendrix and Bob Estes were all are at 5-under 67.


Most of the top players have chosen to practice their way into
form leading up to The Masters. Tiger Woods, defending Masters
champion Phil Mickelson, South African Ernie Els and three-time
Houston Open champion Vijay Singh of Fiji all are taking this
week off.


The highest ranked player in the field is No. 5 Adam Scott, an
Australian who signed for a 69.


Previously held in late April, the Houston Open was moved up to
the week before The Masters as the tour shuffled the schedule in
the offseason.


The date change did not lure the big names, but there are a
number of international players in the field who are tuning up
for next week.


Englishman Lee Westwood enjoyed a solid first day, shooting a
bogey-free 68. Irishman Padraig Harrington signed for a 71 and
former Masters champion Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain carded a
disappointing 76.

