

EU foreign ministers, meeting in Germany, are expected to adopt a
statement deploring Iran's seizure of 15 British naval personnel
in the Gulf, a European diplomatic source said Friday.


Iran's detention of the sailors was set to force itself on to the
agenda of an EU foreign ministers' informal meeting in the
northern German port town of Bremen, otherwise mainly devoted to
Kosovo and the Middle East.


Britain's Margaret Beckett was due to attend the two-day meeting
which starts the day after the UN Security Council expressed
"grave concern" at the detentions but declined to back Britain
with a call for their immediate release.


"I can't imagine that there won't be something that comes out of
this meeting (on the detainees) either today or tomorrow," the EU
diplomat said, when asked whether the meeting would come up with
a joint statement.


Such informal meetings, meant as a chance for the ministers to
discuss the top issues of the day without being constrained by
the need to reach agreed conclusions, do not normal deal in such
statements.


"With the current situation with the British soldiers there is a
particular case," the diplomat added.


On Thursday the security Council agreed a non-binding statement
voicing "grave concern" and urging Tehran to allow "consular
access" to the 15 British sailors and marines.


The council also backed UN chief Ban Ki-moon's call in talks with
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki in Saudi Arabia
Thursday for "an early resolution of the problem, including the
release" of the 15 detainees.


But the statement fell well short of what the British initially
sought: censure of the Iranians for seizing the Britons,
including a female sailor, last Friday in two boats during what
London claims were anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


The initial British draft circulated Wednesday asked the council
to "deplore the continuing detention by the Government of Iran of
15 UK naval personnel" and to back "calls for (their) immediate
release".


In London, the Foreign Office put a brave face on the UN
developments.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
Foreign Office spokeswoman told AFP.


"We now need to move forward to get our 15 people released as
soon as possible," she added.


Beckett can expect plenty of high level EU support over the
issue.


Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, which holds the EU's
rotating presidency, on Wednesday said Iran's seizure of the
British sailors was "unacceptable", and called on the Islamic
republic to release them immediately.


On Thursday EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he had
told the Iranian foreign minister that the seizure of 15 British
sailors was "unacceptable" and promised Britain "solidarity".


Speaking before the European Parliament, Solana said that he had
raised the issue of the escalating crisis on Wednesday with Iran
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki in Riyadh.


"I told him very clearly and very plainly that for the European
Union it is unacceptable that these British sailors are held," he
told EU lawmakers. "European solidarity will work fully for their
liberation."

