

Jermaine Pennant is ready to condemn Arsene Wenger to one of his
worst Premiership finishes as Arsenal manager by helping
Liverpool to victory over his former club at Anfield on Saturday.


Six weeks of the season still remain yet Wenger has already
resigned himself to a second successive trophy-less campaign.


Turfed out of the Champions League by PSV Eindhoven and
eliminated from the FA Cup by Blackburn after losing in the
League Cup final to Chelsea, it is fair to say Arsenal cannot
wait for the season to end.


The Gunners trail Premiership leaders Manchester United by 20
points and Liverpool winger Pennant knows victory this weekend
will prolong Wenger's agony.


Only once have Arsenal finished outside the top three since the
Frenchman took charge in September 1996.


But Rafa Benitez's Liverpool will leapfrog Arsenal into third
spot if they beat them for the first time in four attempts this
season.


Pennant, a six million pounds signing from Birmingham last
summer, believes victory would leave Liverpool firm favourites to
finish above Wenger for the second season running.


That would be sweet revenge for the 24-year-old, still bitter
that he made just two top-flight starts in almost six years under
Wenger at Arsenal.


"I always wanted a chance to try and fulfil my potential at
Arsenal, but I hit a brick wall," said Pennant, who was signed at
the age of 15 by Arsenal from Notts County for two million
pounds, a record fee for a trainee at the time, but failed to
fulfil his promise amidst a string of disciplinary problems.


"Whoever wins this game will finish third in my opinion. For that
reason this is one of our biggest games of the season.


"Apart from this game I don't think either side has a difficult
run-in and that's why this is a big, big match.


"Arsenal have to come to Anfield which, apart from the Manchester
United game in the league, has been a fortress for us. If we play
as well as we can then we can get the right result.


"They have beaten us three times this season so it's time for us
to get a victory."


Despite Arsenal's disappointing season, Anfield holds no fear for
Wenger. And why should it after his side hit nine goals there in
the space of a few days in January to eliminate Liverpool from
both the FA Cup and League Cup.


Those two defeats resulted in fierce criticism for Benitez yet
three months on it is Wenger who is feeling the heat.


"We should have sacrificed the FA Cup this season. It is a
competition we love but last year, when we went out early, we
reached the final of the Champions League," said the Arsenal
manager.


"So this year, once we knew we were in the final of the League
Cup, we should have completely sacrificed the League Cup because
in the end it caught up with us. We had two replays in the FA
Cup, one just before the PSV tie and one right in between it.


"We had already given a lot, playing 17 games in December and
January. Also, we had no possibility to rotate the side because
we had many injuries and then all the suspensions.


"So I think it was a mistake on my part. When we drew Blackburn
at home we didn't think we would go to a replay.


"When you have 60,000 fans in your own stadium you can never say
you will sacrifice the game. But the replay? Perhaps I should
have sacrificed it.


"This is the first time in my time here that we do not have
anything to look forward to.


"We have had years where we didn't win trophies, but we have
always had a cup final or a title race to come."

