

A newly organized dissident coalition in Cuba launched a campaign
Thursday to free political prisoners, promising to take its fight
to international courts.


The National Constitutionalist Alliance groups 225 organizations
with a total of some 3,000 members, according to its director
Angel Polanco.


Polanco said the campaign would seek to gather 250,000 signatures
in the only one-party communist nation in the Americas, and pass
them on to the International Court of Justice and the
International Criminal Court.


He also said that if the Cuban government rejects the request,
the group would call for a day of peaceful civil disobedience
across Cuba, something that has never happened in almost half a
century of communist rule.


The outlawed but officially tolerated Human Rights and National
Reconciliation Commission says there were 283 political prisoners
at the end of 2006, 50 fewer than the previous year.


After almost five decades under the tight grip of Fidel Castro,
80, who called them "mercenaries" at the service of the United
States, government opponents initially kept a low-profile when
the ailing strongman handed over to his younger brother Raul
Castro, 75, on July 31, four days after undergoing intestinal
surgery.


Dissidents have since become increasingly vocal, distributing
statements to foreign media, politicians, governments and human
rights groups.


And the death on January 10 of political dissident Miguel Valdes
Tamayo, who had been released from prison in 2004 for medical
reasons, has helped galvanize opposition.


But they also remained cautious, and pessimistic of significant
reforms under the younger Castro, who has stressed the Communist
Party is the true successor to his older brother.


Oswaldo Paya, a Cuban dissident who won the European Union's
Sakharov Prize in 2002 for his efforts to achieve peaceful
democratic opening, unveiled a new plan almost a year ago called
"All Cubans," seeking a democratic and legal transition in Cuba.


Inspired by the Varela Project he spearheaded earlier, the plan
calls for a Cuban transition that would begin from within the
current system, with a referendum vote.


Many other Cuban dissidents support change only outside the
existing system.


The referendum Paya is promoting calls for amendments to the
existing constitution and other laws, to pave the way for
peaceful transition in Cuba.


Paya's earlier attempt for a referendum saw thousands of
supporters' signatures delivered to the National Assembly in a
bold move that was the first of its kind in decades in Cuba.


Fidel Castro's government rejected that effort.

