

Fear and confusion reigned in Russia's markets ahead of a
government ban against tens of thousands of foreign stallholders
that comes into force on Sunday.


"I don't know what to do!" said Lida, a tearful Ukrainian spice
vendor at the Vyatsky market in central Moscow. Traders from
Azerbaijan, Moldova, Tajikistan and other ex-Soviet republics
across Moscow echoed her despair.


President Vladimir Putin last year called for measures to aid
Russian producers. The government promptly decreed that all
foreigners be banned from working in markets from April 2007 and
that Russian nationals take their place.


In Moscow alone, city authorities estimate there are currently
between 18,000 and 20,000 foreign nationals working in city
markets. All will be banished from working in the markets
starting from Sunday.


"From April 1, there won't be a single foreign stallholder in any
market in Moscow," said Larisa Korzhneva, deputy head of a city
administration department dealing with retail markets.


In January, officials began reducing the proportion of foreigners
working in markets to a 40 percent share. The raids wreaked
havoc, shutting down markets in Siberia and far eastern Russia,
and emptying stalls across the country.


Foreigners, many from former Soviet republics who do not need
visas to enter Russia, have long formed the bulk of the workforce
in Russian markets, flocking to large cities like Moscow and
Saint Petersburg.


Millions of foreign migrants come to Russia every year looking
for work.


While the colour of their skin may not always be tolerated in a
country where racist sentiment is widespread, there is a grudging
acceptance of foreign vendors working here.


Many locals say that Russians simply would not work in the
markets for the salaries and conditions that foreigners, often
coming from countries that are far poorer than Russia, agree to.


"No Muscovite would work 13 hours a day, every day without any
holiday for 500 rubles (19 dollars, 14 euros) per day," said
Lyudmila, a Ukrainian who has been selling meat at Butyrsky
market for the past four years.


At the stall next to hers, Irina, another Ukrainian, points to a
sign a few metres away reading "We Are Looking For A Vendor With
A Russian Passport" in big letters. "That sign's been there for
three years!" Irina said.


Some traders are hoping that an increase in checks on Sunday will
not be followed up by a full ban after the authorities see the
fallout that closure of local markets could bring.


"I think there will be a grand raid in all the markets on Sunday
but then afterwards I think they'll let us work. We haven't done
anyone any harm," said Nasiba, a literature graduate from
Tajikistan selling fish at Vyatsky market.


But migration officials are vowing they will make no allowances.


"The measure will be applied fully. We have already started raids
at the markets. All the foreign vendors, and especially the
market directors, have been warned," said a spokeswoman for
Russia's migration service.


"This is to defend Russian traders, who have long been chased out
of markets or relegated to second class level by the foreigners,"
said the spokeswoman, who declined to give her name.


Anti-racism campaigners in Russia are accusing the government of
taking the xenophobic policies advocated by far-right groups into
mainstream politics in order to boost ratings in an election
year.


"These new rules are populist," said Galina Kozhevnikova, an
analyst from the Sova think tank in Moscow.


"They're presented as a defence of Russian traders against
illegal competition but actually they're dividing ethnic Russian
citizens from the others."


Elena Burtina from Civil Assistance, a non-governmental group
that assists immigrants, said: "This measure is tragic. Markets
are the only sector where people without status can work and earn
money."


Another fear is that the ban will simply boost rampant corruption
in the Russian bureaucracy as foreign market vendors desperately
seek to dodge the new rules by acquiring Russian nationality.


"Before, illegal vendors paid bribes to police officers in the
markets, now the problem is just going to move straight to the
passport offices," Kozhevnikova said.


Lida worked as an accountant in Ukraine for 20 years. Then she
sold up and set up a spice stall in Moscow in 1999. The money she
earns paid for the studies of her daughter, an economist, and her
son, a computer science student.


"In a year, when he'll have his diploma, I'll stop working. Do
you think police officers are going to stop me working on Sunday?
Look, I have the right to work here," she said, showing her
Russian work permit.


Then she blushed. "Don't look at the picture on the work permit.
It was taken seven years ago. I was beautiful then. Working at
the market without any holidays, it ages you."

