

Japan on Saturday winds up a compensation fund for wartime sex
slaves that has failed spectacularly in its goal of putting the
episode to rest, with the international uproar over the past as
strong as ever.


The Asian Women's Fund was established in 1995 by a left-leaning
Japanese government to help former "comfort women," a euphemism
to describe those forced to provide sex to Japanese troops during
World War II.


Japan decided to scrap the fund at the end of the fiscal year on
March 31, acknowledging that its role was finished as only a
minuscule number of women had accepted payments.


"We have to admit the fund was not sufficient and unable to
overcome difficulties," the fund's head Haruki Wada told AFP.


The fund expires in the wake of a wave of criticism after
conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe denied that Japan had
directly coerced the comfort women, although he later renewed an
apology to them.


Donations were collected from the Japanese public while the
government gave money for accompanying medical and welfare
programmes and other administrative costs.


Because it uses private money, critics say that the Japanese
government is not taking responsibility.


"The victims are not asking for money to shut them up," said
Rumiko Nishino of the Japanese activist group Violence Against
Women in War Network.


"This issue will never be solved unless Japan sincerely stands on
principle to consider what the victims really want," she said.


The US Congress is considering a bill, strongly opposed by Abe's
government, that would demand Japan make an unambiguous apology
to former sex slaves and offer direct compensation.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan and the
Netherlands, were forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army
brothels.


The Asian Women's Fund offered two million yen (17,000 dollars)
in compensation per person, with a letter of apology signed by
the prime minister at the time of the claim, as well as some
medical and welfare services.


But only 364 women have accepted the offer -- mostly Filipinas
and Dutch women who were forced into brothels in Indonesia.


China, which gave up its right to claim compensation from Japan
when it established diplomatic relations in 1972, refused to be
part of the programme, and Indonesia only accepted medical and
welfare services.


Cases in South Korea and Taiwan became more complicated and
emotional as activists there accused women who accepted payments
of selling out.


Some activists, as well as the South Korean government, even
offered larger amounts of money to those who promised not to bend
down before the Japanese money.


"It became like a competition over cash," said Wada.


But he also said Japan was making slow but sure progress towards
better relations with its Asian neighbours.


"Until 1993, Japan did not do a single thing about this issue,"
he said. "But now Abe at least declares officially that he would
follow the 1993 apology."


In 1993, nearly half a century after Japan surrendered, the
country for the first time apologised officially to former
comfort women and acknowledged that it was involved "directly or
indirectly" in causing their suffering.


The fund was created two years later by then prime minister
Tomiichi Murayama, the only socialist to lead Japan in recent
times.


With the expiry of the fund, Murayama said that Japan still
needed to work "to ensure former comfort women can live in
peace."


"It is the Japanese people's responsibility to remember the issue
of comfort women as a lesson from history," Murayama said in a
statement.


But Yoshiaki Yoshimi, a Chuo University historian whose research
led to the 1993 apology, said the fund's very nature led to its
failure.


"I cannot give it high marks," Yoshimi said. "Many of the former
comfort women could not accept the compensation from the fund."

