

Lyon chase their first silverware of the season when they take on
Bordeaux in the final of the French League Cup at the Stade de
France here on Saturday.


Lyon were knocked out of the Champions League by Roma in the
first knockout round this month and were dumped out of the French
Cup in January by Marseille and victory in Paris would at least
go some way to compensate them for their earlier failures.


Lyon president Jean-Michel Aulas was in doubt that the final was
of utmost importance for the club, who need only five more
victories from their remaining nine matches to sew up a sixth
straight league title.


The current league leaders are hunting a second League Cup title
after first winning it in 2001, a precursor to their precocious
run as undisputed kings of the French championship between 2002
until present.


"After the championship, this League Cup has always been our
second objective," Aulas said.


"The Champions League has always been a plus. But like all cups,
it's a knockout competition and we can be knocked out in each
round.


"Today, as it was at season's start, the League Cup is Lyon's
goal."


Aulas said the players would not need any motivation for
Saturday's showdown.


"We have 18 or 19 'A' internationals in our squad and these
players know that the competition is one of a high standard.
Believe me, motivation and desire to win is innate in them."


But he added that Bordeaux were a dangerous team, "which probably
has the most potential in France with Lyon".


"Bordeaux are a good team. They are used to playing in these
competitions, but it's also their last chance to win something
this season, so we have all to fear from this adversary."


Bordeaux coach Ricardo said his team must strike a balance going
into the game, although he admitted that he was in no doubt that
Lyon were the stronger side.


"Even someone not passionate about football knows that," he said.
"But a final, that's different, all down to one match.


"To play in a final, it's always about finding the right mix
between pressure and confidence. I think the confidence is there.


"We're on a good run and confidence comes from that," he added of
his team who were league runners-up last season and currently
stand third in the championship.


Bordeaux president Jean-Louis Triaud, having overseen his team
get to three previous League Cup finals and victory in 2002,
said: "It's always good to get to a final. A lot of teams would
love to be in our place.


"It's true that Lyon is a very good team," Triaud said. "It's
always a pleasure to play this team and rate oneself against a
team of this level.


"In any case, we're going there to win."

