

Bayern Munich coach Ottmar Hitzfeld will pull out all the stops
for Saturday's clash with Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04 - despite
their European quarter-final with AC Milan just three days later.


Fourth-placed Bayern host Schalke on Saturday at the Allianz
Arena, desperate to close the nine-point gap with Hitzfeld
demanding a win - or the German giants can forget picking up
their 21st Bundesliga title.


Hitzfeld has key midfielders German international Bastian
Schweinsteiger and aggressive Dutchman Mark Van Bommel fit to
face Schalke and will pick his best side, despite the Champions
League showdown in Milan on Tuesday.


Saturday's game at the Allianz Arena is crucial for Bayern's
aspirations, but they need to leap-frog VfB Stuttgart into third
to guarantee a Champions League berth next season.


"We're not making any concessions to the Milan game," said
Hitzfeld.


"The three points are utterly vital. We want to play in the
Champions League again next year.


"Schalke is a decisive match, like all our matches at the moment.
Every match is a final for us. We need a place in the top three
as soon as possible."


Having lost at Eintracht Frankfurt and drawn with second-placed
Werder Bremen in the last two games, Hitzfeld lamented his side's
lost points.


"The points we've thrown away in the last two weeks is just
incredible, we are in a critical situation and we must be in the
Champions League next season, every single player is clear on
that."


Bayern welcome back French centre-back Valerien Ismael who is set
to make his first appearance since breaking a leg in training
last August.


While all eyes will be on the result in Munich, second-placed
Werder Bremen travel to mid-table Energie Cottbus, hoping to
close the three-point gap on Schalke.


Coach Thomas Schaaf is still waiting to see if he will hold onto
German internationals Miroslav Klose and Torsten Frings, with
Klose out of contract at the end of the season.


Third-placed VfB Stuttgart, in the last crucial automatic
Champions League spot, are at home to ninth-placed Alemannia
Aachen after a disrupted week of training with eight of their
squad involved in internationals.


Coach Armin Veh is still without key defender Serdar Tasci and
the Bundesliga's joint top-scorer Mario Gomez who has a knee
injury.


And at the bottom of the table, Germany's international striker
Oliver Neuville and head coach Jos Luhukay both announced this
week they have re-signed for Borussia Moenchengladback until
2009.


'Gladback are at home to Eintracht Frankfurt, while relegation
candidates Arminia Bielefeld entertain Borussia Dortmund on
Friday night.


And VfL Bochum, who are also in the bottom three, host seventh-
place Hanover, whose goalkeeper Robert Enke made his debut for
the German side in their 1-0 defeat at home to Denmark on
Wednesday.


Fixtures


Friday


Arminia Bielefeld v Borussia Dortmund


Saturday


Energie Cottbus v Werder Bremen, Bayern Munich v FC Schalke 04,
Mainz 05 v Bayer Leverkusen, Nuremberg v Hertha Berlin, Borussia
M'gladbach v Eintracht Frankfurt, VfB Stuttgart v Alemannia
Aachen


Sunday


VfL Bochum v Hanover, Hamburg v VfL Wolfsburg

