

After the UN Security Council expressed "grave concern" at Iran's
detention of 15 British sailors, Britain on Friday took its
diplomatic campaign to a key EU meeting.


But one week after the eight sailors and seven marines were
seized in the Gulf, both sides seemed entrenched. Iran is
refusing to release even Faye Turney, the sole woman among the
captives, and Britain has insisted the sailors were not in
Iranian waters and should not have been detained.


A statement passed by the UN Security Council on Thursday was
only a watered down version of a British proposal.


After more than four hours of haggling and strong Russian
reservations, the statement voiced "grave concern" and urged
Tehran to allow "consular access" to the 15 Britons who are being
held in secret.


The council backed UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's call in
talks with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on
Thursday for "an early resolution of the problem, including the
release" of the 15.


Britain had wanted the statement to call for the sailors'
"immediate release" and to note that they were in Iraqi waters
when detained.


But Russia refused to back a call for the "immediate" release of
the 15 and the council did not want to be seen to be taking sides
over where the Britons were, diplomats said.


Britain insists the 15 were in Iraqi waters carrying out routine
anti-smuggling operations when seized. Iran says the sailors were
in their territory.


The British Foreign Office put a brave face on the non-binding UN
statement.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
Foreign Office spokeswoman told AFP.


"We now need to move forward to get our 15 people released as
soon as possible," she added.


Britain is now hoping to get a statement of support at an EU
foreign ministers meeting in the German city of Bremen on Friday.


Germany, as the current EU president has already expressed
support for Britain's case as has EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana and French President Jacques Chirac.


But speaking on Iranian state television Thursday, Iran's foreign
minister made it clear that London must recognize a violation of
Iranian territorial waters if it wanted to help resolve the
crisis.


Meanwhile Britain confirmed that its embassy in Tehran has
received a "formal note" from the Iranian government, but
declined to provide details about the message.


"Such exchanges are always confidential, so we cannot divulge any
details. But we are giving the message serious consideration, and
will soon respond formally to the Iranian government," a Foreign
Office spokeswoman said.


Both Britain and Iran have produced maps and global positioning
system (GPS) coordinates to back their cases over where the
sailors were.


Britain has called the detentions an "ambush" and said that Iran
had changed the GPS coordinates of the two British patrol boats
to make it appear they were in Iranian waters.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett told the Daily
Telegraph that she believed the sailors' detention to be "clearly
very much like a cock-up" and not a conspiracy.


The United States, which is conducting naval exercises in Gulf,
reiterated its strong backing for its British ally.


"The British government, I think, has gone out and demonstrated
that these people were in international waters," US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice told US television.


"I think they need to be released and the international community
needs to say to Iran that they need to be released and that is
what we're doing. We're trying to do anything that we can with
other parties to help the British," she added.


Iran meanwhile released the text of a second letter written by
the British female captive in which she was quoted as saying that
British troops should leave Iraq.


"Isn't it time to start withdrawing our forces from Iraq and let
them determine their own future?" Turney was quoted as saying in
the letter to her member of parliament, which was published by
the official IRNA news agency.


London was quick to condemn the letter, with Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett calling it "outrageous and cruel".


Britain also complained after Iran showed television footage of
Turney and the other captives on Wednesday. Turney was then
quoted as having acknowledged that the Britons had gone into
Iranian territory.

