

A week after Iran captured 15 British naval personnel in the
Gulf, the UN Security Council Thursday expressed "grave concern"
at their detention but declined to back Britain with a call for
their immediate release.


After more than four hours of haggling and strong Russian
reservations,   South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the
current council chair, read a non- binding statement voicing
"grave concern" and urging Tehran to allow "consular access" to
the 15 British sailors and marines.


The council also backed UN chief Ban Ki-moon's call in talks with
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki in Saudi Arabia
Thursday for "an early resolution of the problem, including the
release" of the 15 detainees.


But the statement fell well short of what the British initially
sought: censure of the Iranians for seizing the Britons,
including a female sailor, last Friday in two boats during what
London claims were anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


The initial British draft circulated Wednesday asked the council
to "deplore the continuing detention by the Government of Iran of
15 UK naval personnel" and to back "calls for (their) immediate
release".


It noted that "the UK personnel were operating in Iraqi waters as
part of the Multinational Force-Iraq under a mandate from the
Security Council under Resolution 1723 (2006) and at the request
of the government of Iraq."


In London, the Foreign Office put a brave face on the UN
developments.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
Foreign Office spokeswoman told AFP.


"We now need to move forward to get our 15 people released as
soon as possible," she added.


But the council was clearly divided on the issue, with Russia
leading opposition to the tough stance toward Tehran pushed by
the British.


"We will not be able to accept a call for the immediate release
of the 15 UK naval personnel," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
Churkin said, according to a Western diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity.


Several diplomats said Russia, backed by some other council
members such as Indonesia, was keen to avoid giving the
impression that the council was taking sides in what is seen as a
bilateral dispute, particularly on the issue of exactly where the
15 Britons were seized.


Tehran insists that they were operating in Iran's territorial
waters, and claimed that positioning equipment from the British
crew indicated that.


Speaking on Iran state television Thursday, Mottaki made it clear
that London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial
waters if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.


Meanwhile Britain confirmed that its embassy in Tehran has
received a "formal note" from the Iranian government, but
declined to provide details about the message.


"Such exchanges are always confidential, so we cannot divulge any
details. But we are giving the message serious consideration, and
will soon respond formally to the Iranian government," a Foreign
Office spokeswoman said.


Responding to Iran's claims on the location of the 15 Britons,
London's UN envoy Emyr Jones Parry told reporters earlier
Thursday that Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two
British boats were changed by Iran to make it appear they were in
Iranian waters.


"It was only when we point out that the detention was
inappropriate and in our view unlawful that the coordinates were
then changed by the Iranian government to be coordinates within
Iranian waters," Jones Parry said.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett told the Daily
Telegraph that she believed the sailors' detention to be "clearly
very much like a cock-up" and not a conspiracy.


A YouGov poll of 2,042 people taken between March 26 and March 28
found that more than half would support military action to rescue
the prisoners, the British newspaper said.


The United States reiterated its strong backing for its close
British ally.


"The British government, I think, has gone out and demonstrated
that these people were in international waters," US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice said told Fox television network.


"I think they need to be released and the international community
needs to say to Iran that they need to be released and that is
what we're doing. We're trying to do anything that we can with
other parties to help the British," she added.

