

India may not be seen as the easiest place to sell a 1,000-dollar
handbag, but top luxury brands from France say the country holds
the key to a major boost in global sales.


The per capita income in India hovers just above 700 dollars,
according to the World Bank, but with a one-billion-plus economy,
increasing numbers of people are crossing into the category of
super-rich.


India now has the highest number of billionaires in Asia,
accorded to Forbes magazine, and approximately 1.6 million
households earn more than 100,000 dollars a year, making them all
potential customers of luxury goods.


"Right now the numbers are very marginal. But India is one of the
markets where growth will be exponential," Damien Vernet, general
manager for Louis Vuitton in the Middle East and India, told AFP
on Thursday.


"We're very happy with our numbers in Europe but the future is in
places like India, the Middle East, China, Eastern Europe."


Vernet, as well as other top officials of French brands
represented on the Comite Colbert, an association of some 70
luxury houses, was in India ahead of a two-day luxury goods
conference beginning Friday.


The Indian luxury market is currently thought to be worth some
two billion dollars and is growing at some 20 percent a year,
according to figures from India's main trade federation FICCI.


According to retail consultancy Technopak, which last year
surveyed some 4,000 affluent consumers across the country, the
market in India could potentially be worth up to 14 billion
dollars a year.


The consultancy said there were 1.6 million families who could
spend up to 9,000 dollars on items including fashion goods and
jewellery.


Xavier Bertrand, managing director for Chanel in India, said the
company had recorded sales growth of "between 40 and 50 percent"
last year, and will next week open its fifth Indian store in the
southern high-tech hub of Bangalore.


"What makes India unique is a young population that also aspires
more and more to luxury products," Bertrand told AFP, adding that
he expected to see similar growth figures for the next three to
four years.


Part of the change is cultural, with many of the young, who have
come of age during the economic liberalisation of the 1990s,
eschewing the independence struggle-inspired "buy Indian" ethos
of their parents and grandparents.


"I would like to call it traditional modernism," said Shimul
Mehta Vyas, head of India's top fashion school, the National
Institute of Design, at a pre- conference event.


"On the one hand we still uphold our traditional culture but on
the other hand we aspire to be global consumers."


But the retailers said it is sometimes difficult to find the
right location for their stores.


Currently many companies sell in five-star hotels, with some
venturing out to top malls, but stay away from the "high street,"
with most markets even in urban India a chaotic scene of crowded
small shops on potholed roads.


"There is a lack of selective retail environments," said Vernet,
whose company has two shops in India, both in top hotels.


"If it was not for that obstacle we probably would have a few
more stores in India."


But unlike lower-end global American brands such as McDonald's --
which in India serves spicy concoctions of mashed potato and
cottage cheese for the largely vegetarian population -- the
French say they will not "Indianise."


"What we propose is Chanel style, whether you like it or not. If
you don't like it, don't buy it," Chanel chairman Francoise
Montenay, who also heads the board of the Comite Colbert, told
AFP.

