

Two elderly California women are to stand trial on charges of
killing two homeless men to collect 2.8 million dollars from
their insurance policies, a US court ruled on Thursday.


Helen Golay, 76, and Olga Rutterschmidt, 74, are accused of
running down the men in a car in separate incidents after making
them sign multiple life insurance and accidental death policies
in the women's names.


The two women from Hollywood, dubbed the "black widows" by local
media, pleaded not guilty to charges of murder and conspiracy at
Los Angeles Superior Court. They may face the death penalty if
convicted.


Kenneth McDavid, 50, and Paul Vados, 73, who were homeless, were
killed in hit- and-run crashes in June 2005 and November 1999.


The prosecutor, Deputy District Attorney Shellie Samuels, told
the court that for two years the women paid rent and life
insurance premiums for the destitute men, so they could collect
on the policies when the men died.


"These women had taken out life insurance policies on these two
individuals ... at great expense to themselves ... and the only
way to collect on these policies is for these two individuals to
die," Samuels said.


The two lied about their relations to the men in order to get the
multiple insurance policies, claiming on occasions to be a
fiancee or cousin, she said.


The two are also charged with murder for financial gain and
multiple murders, crimes which are punishable by death.


They maintained their innocence.


"The bottom line is Ms. Golay is not guilty of this crime, she is
innocent, and she hopes to win in court," Golay's attorney, Roger
Diamond, said following Thursday's court appearance. He called
the case against Golay "very weak."


He argued there were no eyewitnesses to the men's deaths and the
driver of the Mercury Sable car used to run down McDavid could
not be identified from surveillance tapes.


The prosecution claimed a woman identifying herself as Golay
called for assistance to tow a Mercury Sable on the night McDavid
was killed. They say the car was later found abandoned near
Rutterschmidt's home.


Diamond, Golay's defense lawyer, said the driver of the tow truck
could not identify his client as the woman who asked for her car
to be towed on the night of McDavid's death.


Tests showed that blood found on the car's undercarriage matched
McDavid's DNA profile.


As well as the 2.8 million dollars of claims paid on the men's
deaths, several other insurance policies worth more than two
million dollars were pending but had not been paid out, according
to testimony by a state investigator.


The women were first charged in September 2006 and have been
detained without bail. The case against Golay has already been
dismissed once, when a judge ruled in January that her right to a
speedy hearing had been violated.


Diamond said he would request that the case against Golay be
dismissed again, arguing she was deprived of sleep during this
week's four-day hearing.


The court ordered that the two women stand trial based on
Thursday's preliminary hearing. Prosecutors are due to decide on
May 2 whether they will seek the death penalty.

