

Grant Hackett's moment of truth comes at the world championships
on Saturday as world record-shattering Michael Phelps wrestles
with teammate Ian Crocker to keep his gold medal assault on
track.


Hackett is in a career crisis after relinquishing both his
400-800m freestyle world crowns and he is to decide on Saturday
whether to contest the heats of his signature 1500-metres
freestyle event in which he is unbeaten in a decade.


The Australian great is paying a huge price for a disrupted
preparation and he foreshadowed Friday that he was ailing and not
in the best shape to defend his four-time world title.


"I am not feeling fantastic, it is not an ideal situation heading
into the meet, I was always honest and up front about my
preparation and I didn't think it was this bad," Hackett said.


"But I have to be honest with myself and if my body is at a
certain level then I have to make a very tough decision."


Hackett, who was a well-beaten seventh in the 800m final, is
being challenged by a group of eager, fresh sub-15minute rivals,
led by American    Larsen Jensen, Briton David Davies, Russian
Yuri Prilukov and South Korea's Park Tae-hwan into Sunday's
final.


While Hackett is looking where his next win is coming from,
Phelps can't stop breaking world records and faces a test against
teammate Crocker in the 100m butterfly.


Phelps is over halfway to realising his ambitious target of
winning eight gold at the world titles in a test-run of his
programme for next year's Beijing Olympics.


But world record holder Crocker is bidding for his third win over
Phelps in a world 100m butterfly final and he swam strongly in
the heats and semi-finals.


If Crocker wins he will be the most successful individual
butterfly swimmer in the history of the world championships, with
three gold medals and four silvers.


"This race gives me a sort of a new goal," Phelps said, while
Crocker's view is "having him behind me is not the most
comfortable position to be in, but it brings out the best in me."


Laure Manaudou's extraordinary fluctuating world championships
looks pitched for another high in the 800m freestyle after a near
championship record qualifying time.


The 20-year-old French star, who has already claimed the 200/400m
freestyle double, swam 8:25.65 to go into Saturday's final ahead
of America's new 1500m world champion Kate Ziegler (8:28.11).


The two may push each other towards Janet Evans's world record of
8:16.22, which has stood for 18 years.


Gold medals will also be on offer on Saturday in the women's 50m
butterfly, men's 50m freestyle, women's 200m backstroke and
women's 4x100m medley relay.


Australian Danni Miatke, American Rachel Komisarz and Inge Dekker
of the Netherlands are the favourites for the 50m butterfly,
while American Cullen Jones is vying with Poland's Bartosz
Kizierowski and Australian Eamon Sullivan in the men's 50m
freestyle.


Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry is defending her 200m backstroke world
title, while Australia and United States should fight it out in
the women's medley relay.

