

Greenpeace appealed Friday to Japan to let a boat of anti-whaling
protesters dock, accusing Tokyo of trying to stifle debate as the
vessel drifted outside Tokyo for a third day.


The Dutch-flagged "Esperanza" was unable to arrive as scheduled
Wednesday due to objections by the sailors' union, which led the
agent handling the paperwork to pull out.


But the environmental group said it believed the Tokyo government
was behind the decision to bar the Espernaza, which is on a
mission to build sympathy for whales in Japan.


"It would be easy for them to say that we should be allowed in,"
Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara Holden said of the government. "It's
convenient that the seamen's union is objecting, but I think it
goes further than that."


"It's as much a question of the way that the government views the
idea of freedom of speech as anything else," she said by
telephone from the Esperanza.


"We don't plan to leave, we plan to continue trying to get in,
because we believe we have a right to do so," she said.


The 23 crew members of 10 nationalities have asked their
respective embassies to intervene, she said.


The Esperanza trailed home Japan's whaling fleet, which returned
early after an embarrassing fire on board the mother ship left
one crew member dead.


The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, a hardline offshoot of
Greenpeace, had thrown acid on the mother ship, the Nisshin Maru,
although both sides said the crippling fire was unlikely to be
connected to the protesters.


The All Japan Seamen's Union cited the protests to bar the entry
of the Espernaza, saying that it had no desire for dialogue with
Greenpeace, which Japan calls a "terrorist" group.


Greenpeace has condemned more militant activists and said the
Esperanza helped the troubled Nisshin Maru, although Japanese
authorities denied accepting any help.


Japan, which argues that whale meat is part of its culture, has
set a quota to hunt around 1,000 whales a year, mostly in the
Antarctic Ocean.


It uses a loophole in a global ban on whaling that allows killing
the animals for research.

