

Six Islamic militant leaders accused of masterminding a string of
deadly bomb attacks across Bangladesh were hanged early Friday,
two weeks ahead of schedule, the national prison chief said.


Authorities in the emergency-ruled country immediately stepped up
security following the executions, with extra police and members
of the elite Rapid Action Battalion seen patrolling Dhaka's main
streets.


The six included Shaikh Abdur Rahman, the leader of the outlawed
Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), and his deputy Siddiqul
Islam Bangla Bhai.


"They were hanged in four different jails and their dead bodies
were handed over to their families," inspector general of prisons
Brigadier Zakir Hassan told AFP.


"They did not show any emotion during the hangings. We informed
their relatives and took measures to send their bodies to the
village homes."


The Islamists were specifically sentenced to death last year over
bombings that killed two judges in November 2005.


However, authorities say the group was also behind 400 almost
simultaneous blasts that shook this country of 144 million people
on August 17, 2005.


The attacks were part of a campaign apparently aimed at forcing
Bangladesh to replace its Muslim but secular legal system, which
dates from the British colonial period, with traditional Islamic
or sharia law.


At least 28 people were killed and hundreds injured in the
attacks, and an ensuing crackdown saw some 1,000 JMB members
arrested.


The hangings were carried out more than two weeks before their
scheduled dates.


"We maintained total secrecy about the hangings because of
security reasons. We also did not break any laws by hanging them
earlier," the national prison chief said.


Bangladesh's national police chief said security had been stepped
up in the country, which has been under emergency rule since
January when political violence between supporters of the rival
mainstream parties forced elections to be cancelled.


"We beefed up security across the country immediately after the
executions," Nur Mohammad said, adding that raids have also been
conducted to prevent any revenge attacks.


"Some militants are still out there and they can launch small-
scale attacks. But we don't think that the group is now capable
of launching any big-scale attack," he added.


When they were sentenced, the militants said they would not
appeal, claiming they had acted in the name of Islam. Four later
changed their minds, while the two who did not, Rahman and Islam,
sent letters justifying their actions which authorities treated
as pleas for clemency.


In the end the appeals were all rejected.


A seventh man was also sentenced to death in absentia over the
November 2005 bombings and is on the run.


A total of some 30 people, including the seven in this case, have
been sentenced to death over the JMB bombing campaign, while 10
have received life terms of 40 years. Twenty others are serving
20 year sentences.

