

Mira Nair's just-released epic movie "The Namesake", tracing 30
years in the life of an Indian couple who move to the United
States, "gave me in one rhythm the opportunity to link the two
cities in which I grew up, Calcutta and New York", she said in an
interview.


"The big key for me is the unique and stunning similarities of
the two," said the acclaimed 49-year-old film-maker who has a
taste for exploring the intersection of cultures.


"The state of living between worlds is such that you can look out
of your window in New York city, and instead of seeing the Hudson
you see the Ganges."


Nair's debut 1988 feature about a boy selling tea in the street,
"Salaam Bombay", was nominated for an Oscar for Best Foreign Film
and won the Cannes filmfest's prize for best first feature, the
Camera d'Or.


Her 1991 feature "Mississippi Masala", which picked up several
awards, is an inter-racial love story set in the US and Uganda,
home of her husband.


"Also, the emotion of the story is something I have lived," said
Nair, born in India and educated in Delhi before leaving for
Harvard at 19.


'I still don't wear socks in the winter in America," she said.
"And to see Ashima (the wife in the movie) in her cotton sari,
with her husband's coat, oversized gloves, not knowing what to
put on her feet, and carrying her laundry through the snow in New
York, is an image I have seen for 30 years in America but have
never seen on screen."


"The Namesake", screened at film festivals but released to the
public this week, follows the life of an Indian couple in an
arranged marriage who move to New York, where they raise two
children. The death of the father sees the son go back to his
roots.


"This story gave me the chance of filming the old world but also
the very new contemporary Asian cool that is now in New York
City. The explosion of art and literature, and music, and
fashion, all of that is a very confident time now for the south-
Asian people in the West," she said.


In "The Namesake" the parents' arranged marriage works out while
the son's romantic passion for a US girl flounders.


"That is the unpredictability of life," she told AFP. "That's
what I love about life, it's often much stranger than fiction!"


"It is a gamble, but the whole principle of arranged marriages is
that parents belive that marriage is a terrible adjustment at the
best of times. So they might as well marry you to a family that
is a lot like your own. But it also comes from a culture where
once settled in a marriage you have no choice, you have to make
it work."


"But in the younger generation, if you snore and the other one
doesn't like it, you get divorced, that is freedom."


The twist in the plot of "The Namesake", which is based on the
novel by Pulitzer-prize winner Jhumpa Lahiri, is that with or
without a cultural divide there is no easy formula to make a
relationship work.


"Life is not that simple," she said. "There is no formula... so
that's what I like, the unpredictability of it."


Because of the success of her previous films, which also include
"Monsoon Wedding" and "Vanity Fair", Nair said she had had little
trouble raising funds for the movie, financed by Indians,
Japanese and Americans.


"It is easier to raise money like this, for a 9-10 million dollar
film, with no white stars, about Indians. One Hollywood guy told
me 'This is a non-Caucasian film on a Caucasian budget'. That's
how he put it!"


"The film business really responds to money," she added. "If you
are successful, they will finance you. So that is the trick.


"It's just that I've always made my films about what gets under
my skin. And "The Namesake" really got my heart beating faster
and I loved making something that unites the worlds that I know."

