

Fresh battlelines were drawn Friday as the Democratic-led US
Congress and the Republican White House faced off again over Iraq
after both chambers approved a timetable for withdrawing US
troops.


With the Pentagon saying its money to continue the war is likely
to run out in just a few weeks' time, the Senate on Thursday
approved a fresh infusion of cash, but tied the money to a
timetable for withdrawing US troops.


Congress's upper chamber approved the 122 billion dollar spending
bill along a mostly party line vote of 51 to 47.


The legislation sets a mandatory start to a troop pullout within
120 days of its final passage, and a guideline of March 31, 2008
for withdrawal of most US combat forces.


"This legislation serves the best interests of our troops," said
Democratic Senator Robert Byrd on the Senate floor after the
vote.


"With passage of this bill, the Senate sends a clear message to
the president that we must take the war in Iraq in a new
direction," he said.


But the bill, and the days of impassioned debate leading up to
its passage, have set up the sharpest confrontation yet between
the Democratic-led Congress and the US president, who adamantly
rejects time restrictions on the presence of US troops.


Although a showdown with Bush is looming larger than ever,
Democrats urged the president to sit down with lawmakers to find
common ground.


"I hope that the president will drop his rhetoric and instead
work with Congress to craft a responsible plan to transition our
forces from Iraq," said Byrd, the main author of the Senate
legislation.


The White House on Thursday again condemned the vote, and blamed
the absence of an emergency Iraq spending bill for a Pentagon
decision this week to reallocate funds from other defense areas
to the war-torn country.


"This re-programming of funds is only necessary because Congress
has failed to act in a timely manner on the president's emergency
funding request," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"This again underscores the need to get the show on the road, get
the bill to the president. He will veto it and then we'll take it
from there."


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq," Bush said after meeting Thursday with Republican
congressional allies.


So far neither side has shown a willingness to back down in the
impasse, but neither side wants to be perceived as the party
responsible for denying troops in Iraq the materiel and supplies
they need.


The bill prevailed in part because of key Republican defections,
including longtime Iraq war critic Senator Chuck Hagel and
Senator Gordon Smith. Independent Democrat Joseph Lieberman voted
against the bill.


Democrats were able on Tuesday to turn back Republican attempts
to remove  the deadline from the spending bill.


Measures on early troop withdrawal have now squeaked by in both
chambers by razor-thin margins, but Democrats concede that they
are unlikely to muster the two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto.


Still, they said, the vote was a powerful message of the "new
direction" demanded in Iraq by the Congress and the US public.


Republicans could have "filibustered" Tuesday's vote, by refusing
to end debate and call the question. They did so earlier this
month on a non-binding resolution criticizing Bush's January
decision to send extra troops to Iraq.


But minority leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it.


"This bill is the document of our defeat. The president knows
this. That's why he's said for weeks that he isn't going to sign
it," the Republican leader said. "No bill has deserved the veto
pen more than this one."


Democrats say they are obligated to instigate the policy change
after being swept to power in November elections on a wave of
deep public resentment over the Iraq war, which has cost more
than 3,200 US lives and left tens of thousands of Iraqis dead.


The Senate bill now needs to be reconciled with a similar one
approved last week in the House of Representatives, which would
send 124 billion dollars for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and
links the money to removing troops from Iraq by August 31, 2008.

