

Zimbabwe's ruling party was expected to pick Robert Mugabe again
as its candidate Friday for next year's presidential election
after the beleaguered leader won strong public backing from his
peers.


The central committee of the Zimbabwe African National Union
Patriotic-Front (ZANU-PF) was to meet in Harare where it was set
to rubberstamp a decision by its politburo earlier this week to
extend the 83-year-old leader's tenure.


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since independence in 1980 and
is widely blamed for the political and economic crisis rocking
Zimbabwe, would be 90 years of age if he were to be re-elected in
2008 and serve a full six-year term.


While there have been rumblings of discontent within ZANU-PF over
Mugabe's reluctance to retire, sources close to the politburo
said no-one was so far putting their head above the parapet and
challenging his nomination.


"We are supporting the old man because we need continuity. There
is a lot of unfinished business," said one party source, adding
"it's a deal done".


The central committee meeting "is a formality and it's almost
certain no-one will stand up against him," said another source.


Opposition within Zimbabwe towards Mugabe has soared in recent
weeks with inflation now the highest in the world at 1,730
percent and four out of five people out of work.


He was also widely condemned by his long-time critics in the West
for the arrests and assaults of senior members of the main
opposition Movement for Democratic Change this month as they
tried to stage an anti-government rally.


But any hopes of the MDC that southern Africa would stand up
publicly to Mugabe were dashed at a regional summit in Tanzania
when leaders expressed "solidarity" with his government, called
for the lifting of Western sanctions and chose South African
President Thabo Mbeki to act as a mediator.


Mugabe has tried to blame Zimbabwe's economic woes on the West,
although the sanctions programme currently in place only targets
Mugabe and his inner circle by restricting their travel and
freezing their bank accounts.


The sanctions were imposed after the European Union and United
States said Mugabe rigged the 2002 elections but the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) leaders made a point of
declaring the ballot free and fair.


They also called on old colonial power Britain to "honour its
commitments" dating back to the independence agreement to resume
payments to fund land redistribution, money London says has been
used to line pockets in the past.


The choice of Mbeki to try to promote dialogue between the
Zimbabwean government and opposition was also likely to have
pleased Mugabe given that the South African leader has
consistently refused to publicly criticise his northern neighbour
and instead advocates "quiet diplomacy".


Summit insiders said the southern African leaders were more
critical of Mugabe behind closed doors but caved in to demands to
issue a statement that was favourable to his leadership.


"Zimbabwe was quite uncomfortable with a harsh communique so it
had to be adapted," a Tanzanian official said.


Asked if he was pleased at the outcome of the summit, Mugabe
replied: "Yes, I have good neighbours."


The MDC said it was prepared to meet with ZANU-PF representatives
under Mbeki's mediation but held out little hope the dialogue
would help matters.


"Even if you have dialogue tomorrow, how does that reduce
inflation from 1,730 percent to say two percent, or reduce an
unemployment rate of 80 per cent," Tendai Biti, secretary general
of the main MDC faction told AFP.


"We have been on this road before. It's not the first time that
President Mbeki has been appointed to mediate in this crisis and
we wonder what is different now that will bring any hope when our
leaders are being butchered, our offices are being raided and our
equipment destroyed."

