

London-based stand-up comedian Tommy Campbell's iPod is packed
with recordings made by a mother-of-one who lives in China's
southernmost island of Hainan.


The two have never met, but every week they spend three hours in
each other's company, as Tommy struggles to form the distinctive
tones and sounds of Mandarin Chinese.


Lily Huang is Tommy's Mandarin teacher. Rather than pay
exorbitant prices for a UK-based face-to-face tutor or hide in
the back of the class at night school, Tommy can take Lily's
lessons in the comfort and privacy of his own home via the
Internet, direct from China.


Lily teaches students across the globe via Skype, the Internet
telephony system that allows people to communicate for free
across the world, often using webcams.


The videophone service was set up in 2003 by two Scandinavian
entrepreneurs and sold to Ebay in September 2005 for 4.1 billion
dollars. It is now available in 27 languages. Asia reportedly
represents 30 percent of its 171 million subscribers and has
become its fastest growing market.


Such is the strength of the technology that a broadband
connection means the 34 -year-old from the island's capital city
of Haikou can meet the huge demand for Mandarin teachers in
countries as far away as the United States, New Zealand and
Malaysia, something that would have been impossible even five
years ago.


"Most of my students are very busy. They have no time to go to
the classes and they want to work from home, where they can be
very relaxed," said Huang, who is a qualified English teacher and
previously taught in Chinese schools.


"If you sit in a class with many students and just one tutor, the
student cannot talk too much, you cannot practise that much, but
(with Skype lessons) he or she can talk as much as she wants."


Huang is also able to undercut private tutors in the West.


Such is the dearth of qualified Mandarin teachers in Britain that
they can easily charge 150 dollars an hour, and even more for
business clients.


Huang's lessons cost around 20 dollars an hour, which her
students pay via PayPal, the online banking service.


She says it's a good income in China, and affords her the
flexibility to stay at home and look after her six-year-old son.


Huang's husband came up with the idea of using the Internet for
lessons a year ago and she tentatively started putting her
details on a few expat websites.


She also set up a page on the social networking site myspace,
which is where Tommy found her after a simple Google search for
private Mandarin tutors.


-- Online learning brings education into the home --


"Learning a new language takes a tremendous amount of confidence
and having the stability to learn at home makes things a lot
easier," said the 28-year-old comic.


"A lot of teachers don't feel comfortable coming to your home so
they arrange a 'neutral' place to meet. It sounds like a bad
blind date, but I once took Spanish lessons where the teacher
wanted to meet in a coffee shop.


"Try sitting in Starbucks struggling to make all these new sounds
without looking like a right jackass!"


While Tommy took the class for the challenge of learning a new
language -- he plays gigs across the world -- Huang's students
range from people who want to learn for business, to a second
generation Chinese expat who wanted to learn how to communicate
with relatives in Taiwan.


Eric Atherton, who has run companies providing components for the
oil industry, lives in the rural English county of Oxfordshire
and, reluctant to attend classes, could not find any private
Mandarin tutors locally.


"I have done a bit of business in China and I already recognised
that not being able to speak Chinese was (adding to the
difficulty) in establishing and building relations with
customers," he said.


"The other driver was that I wanted to do something completely
different and had never been much good at languages."


Again, Atherton found Huang via Google after steering clear of
more formal Chinese language tutors online, but he admits the
technology also appealed.


"As soon as I came across the possibility I thought I have got to
try this because it makes so much sense -- and it works," he
said.


"Although you don't have someone in the room with you, face to
face, you are actually talking to someone in China right now,
that is the compensation."


As well as the videophone, Skype also provides a chat facility
where Huang's students can check the spelling of the words and a
digital whiteboard, where she can draw characters.


Huang now works around 20 hours a week preparing for and tutoring
her students, but she admits that her reliance on technology is a
built-in vulnerability.


In December, a strong earthquake struck off the coast of Taiwan
ripping through the undersea Internet cables, crippling services
across southeast Asia.


Skype relies on a good connection to transfer smooth images and
sound, but the entire Internet into China was debilitated for the
following four weeks -- and so was Huang's teaching business.


"If the Internet cuts off we can do nothing. Last month, after
the Taiwan earthquake I was going crazy. The Internet itself is
the only thing that is difficult," she said.


Huang tailors her classes to each student individually, sending
an outline of the next lesson the day before. After the lesson
she sends, or "Skypes," an MP3 recording of the new material that
was covered.


"At the end of each lesson she'll ask me what I'd like to learn
next time, she'll then compile the material based on my desires,"
added Tommy.


"It's very important to have this freedom. A lot of teachers will
restrict you to a textbook, which is too rigid.


"I want to know how to do things a bit more rock n' roll. Where
is the post office? Who cares! Teach me how to how to get a beer
after hours."

