

An emotional dispute over the fate of 41 captive tigers in
Vietnam has pitted a beer company owner against a coalition of
environmental groups who are describing it as a test case in
conservation.


The headline-grabbing battle started more than two weeks ago when
the prime minister ordered authorities to take action against
four families who were keeping the endangered cats in unofficial
private zoos near Ho Chi Minh City.


Since then the tigers have rarely been out of the news as the
owners have fought back, claiming they are taking better care of
the tigers than the government could in its poorly-funded zoos.


Spokesman of the group Ngo Duy Tan, owner of Pacific Brewery, and
of 24 tigers, has drawn much public support while threatening to
sue for libel those who have accused him of breaking the law.


Many Vietnamese have backed him in the media, and ex-prime
minister Vo Van Kiet said Tan should be applauded for helping
conserve the species, despite the fact he has contravened
international treaties.


As Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is expected to make a final
decision, a coalition of environmental groups has written to him,
demanding that Vietnam enforce its laws, confiscate the
endangered cats and punish the owners.


"The public should be left without doubt that no one should be
allowed to keep tigers as pets or breed this endangered species
and that all effort should be focussed on the conservation of
this animal in the wild," they said.


The group includes the wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC,
the Worldwide Fund for Nature, the World Conservation Union,
Fauna and Flora International and local groups Wildlife At Risk
and Education for Nature.


The coalition pointed to reports that the tigers were illegally
trafficked from neighbouring Cambodia, breaching the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, which Vietnam ratified in 1994.


The treaty aims to stop the use of wildlife products, mainly in
traditional Chinese medicine and as food, an illegal trade in
which Vietnam is both a destination country and trans-shipment
hub to China and beyond.


The environmental groups stressed that habitat degradation and
fragmentation, hunting and the illegal wildlife trade had pushed
tigers "close to extinction in Vietnam" with only about 100 left
in the wild.


They also rejected claims that the tigers were being bred for
conservation purposes, saying their genetic origin was unknown
and that there have been no known successful introductions of
captive tigers into the wild.


The letter was immediately leaked to the media, fuelling the
heated debate, and Tan has since threatened to sue the groups for
having "seriously hurt his dignity, honour and prestige".


Amid the row, all sides admit there are few good options.


Releasing the animals into the wild is not feasible since few
virgin forests remain, the tigers are not accustomed to fending
for themselves, they would be under threat from poachers, and
would present a danger to humans.


Giving them to a zoo is equally tricky since no facility in
Vietnam exists that could absorb more than three dozen tigers.


A third option mentioned by officials would be to euthanise them,
a step certain to cause a public outcry.


For now, the fate of the tigers is in limbo amid signs Hanoi's
stance has softened since newspapers and TV crews stormed the
tiger farms and reported how well the animals were being cared
for.


Tan said he bought five ailing tiger cubs in 2000 and bred them
to a group of 24 now, claiming he was motivated by his love of
the animals, not profit.


He said he had kept provincial authorities informed all along and
applied to set up a conservation park but received no response.


"I am just an ordinary man who wants to protect the animals from
being killed," he told AFP. "I have created a friendly
environment for the tigers. Each month, I spend 100 million dong
(6,200 dollars) on them."


Agriculture Minister Cao Duc Phat, who oversees the forest
protection department that is meant to police the illegal
wildlife trade, visited last week and reportedly said he was
impressed at "how healthy the tigers are".


Many letters to newspapers also backed Tan, the tiger man.


"Those who proposed the confiscation of the tigers should go into
early retirement," fumed reader Thien Phat.


"The prime minister should think carefully before making a
decision if he does not want to upset and lose his prestige
before the people."


For their part, the six conservation groups are trying to agree
on a publicly acceptable solution while getting their message
across.


"This is a tipping point for conservation," said Sulma Warne,
Greater Mekong coordinator of TRAFFIC. "If inappropriate
decisions are made here, we're setting a precedent for other
endangered species."

