

Oil prices rose to fresh 2007 highs in Asian trade Friday as
tensions over Iran's detention of British military personnel
increased further, dealers said.


At 2:40 pm (0640 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 67 cents to 66.70 dollars
a barrel from 66.03 dollars in late US trades Thursday, the
highest price since early September.


Brent North Sea crude for May was up 70 cents at 68.58 dollars.


Geopolitical risk in Iran, the world's fourth biggest oil
producer, remains the key factor applying upward pressure on
crude futures, analysts said.


"Iran is more aggressive in handling the issue of the detained
sailors. They won't beg. They're making a pretty tough stance,
driving up the possibility of military conflict in the Gulf,"
said CFC Seymour senior investment strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk
in Hong Kong.


He said the market was pricing in the possibility of further
risks over the weekend.


"The market will continue to reassess the risk to supply ... the
potential for conflict and the disruption of oil supply is real
because Iran is directly involved and oil could hit record highs
if anything happens," he said.


"The market is just very nervous so any sort of headline or
rumour that suggests that the situation between the West and Iran
-- between Britain and Iran -- might be getting worse is going to
have a bullish impact on prices," Bache Financial trader Tony
Machacek said in London hours.


Oil prices are being supported also by Iran's refusal to bow to
international pressure over its disputed nuclear programme.


Simon Hayley, senior international economist at Capital
Economics, said the premium was currently at about 5.0 dollars a
barrel. With the premium stripped out, and if the market reacted
solely to oil's demand-supply balance, prices would likely be
trading at between 60 and 62 dollars.


Despite this week's spike in crude, prices remain a long way off
record highs of above 78 dollars last year.


The 15 Royal Navy sailors and marines were detained in the Gulf
last Friday, leading Britain to freeze ties with the Islamic
republic.


Prices rose even higher on Thursday after Iran decided against
releasing the only female sailor held among the group.

