

England captain John Terry led a chorus of approval for Steve
McClaren as the beleaguered coach fights to save his job.


McClaren's future as England manager has come under increasing
scrutiny in the aftermath of yet another lacklustre display by
his side against Andorra.


England laboured for long periods before seeing off their part-
time opponents 3-0 in a Euro 2008 qualifier played out to a
backdrop of furious protests from large sections of the 15,000
English fans in Barcelona.


Their calls for McClaren to be sacked were echoed in the English
media, but Terry and Steven Gerrard, who scored twice against
Andorra, both believe the former Middlesbrough chief is still the
right man for the job.


Terry said: "Fifteen minutes into the game we heard certain
things and every one of us took it in - and it's not nice. During
the game that is not going to help the England players or us
going forward to the finals.


"It is fully worth it coming here and playing for your country.
There is nothing better. But it is not fair what they were
singing about the manager on Wednesday night.


"We came here as a group of players, came out and said 'it's us,
not the manager who is to blame.' He has prepared us and did
everything he could coming into these games with Israel and
Andorra.


"We felt as a group of players coming out and saying that, it was
us who should have taken the flak. It is just not fair on the
manager especially during the games. I would like to reiterate we
are behind him 100 per cent."


Terry saluted Gerrard's display - which was the only bright spot
on a dispiriting evening for England - and he said: "Steve was
magnificent and again showed what a world class player he is."


Liverpool midfielder Gerrard insists England's players are united
behind McClaren despite reports of dressing room unrest,
including a row between the boss and striker Wayne Rooney after
last Saturday's draw in Israel.


He said: "We are in it together. Steve McClaren is our manager,
we believe in him. We are the players he has picked and we are
the players that have let the country down over the last seven or
eight performances.


"He is getting all the stick from the fans and media and as a
player you want to help him and stick together and that is what
we are trying to do to turn it around.


"It is difficult to concentrate when the manager is getting so
much stick. As a player you try and focus on the game and try and
blank out what the fans are singing but you can't.


"You can here it but you've got to get on with it. I've never
played in that kind of atmosphere before but I understand it."

