

The UN Human Rights Council was set to decide Friday on a follow
up to a report that accused Sudan of orchestrating war crimes in
Darfur, amid signs that differences between European and African
countries on the issue have narrowed.


The two sides could arrive at a joint position which "takes note"
of the report by Nobel laureate Jody Williams, a European
diplomatic source told AFP.


A senior UN official observing the behind-the-scenes negotiations
also signalled a closing of ranks in the 47-member rights
assembly.


"The positions are starting to come together," the official said.


Two draft resolutions on the strife-torn region of Sudan are
currently before the Council, one from Algeria on behalf of the
African group, and one from Germany as current president of the
European Union.


Both texts have been revised in recent days in a bid to bring
them closer together.


Any agreement between the Africans and Europeans would be a major
blow for Sudan, which had earlier sought to bar any discussion of
Jody Willliams's report for its perceived "bias".


Online news agency Info Sud reported on Thursday that the EU had
presented a new modification of its resolution to the Africans,
seeking a more conciliatory note by citing Sudan's proclaimed
willingness to improve the human rights situation in Darfur.


The consensus resolution would lead to a new group, headed by the
UN Special Rapporteur for human rights in Sudan, Sima Samar, that
would work with the Sudanese government and the human rights
protection bodies of the African Union, a European diplomatic
source said.


The group would both report on the situation on the ground, and
press for the implementation of resolutions by the Council and
other UN human rights bodies, the source added.


A senior EU official said last week that positions were moving
closer together and several major African countries were already
supporting the European stance.


The bid failed, not least because it did not win the support of
all African countries.


The high-level report by Williams and her team earlier this month
found that Sudan's government had "orchestrated and participated
in" war crimes and human rights abuses such as rape and torture
across the strife-torn region.


It urged the international community to adopt a "fully unified
approach" in addressing Darfur, and called on it to implement
measures such as travel bans and the freezing of assets for those
identified as rights violators.


The president of the Human Rights Council, Mexican ambassador
Luis Alfonso de Alba, said on Thursday it was crucial the council
remained "engaged," both for the situation on the ground and the
UN body's own credibility.


"It's not the question of just taking note of the report and
moving on. It is neither the question of sending back a mission
... I think we have a comprehensive report with specific
recommendations and we need to look for their implementation," de
Alba said.


The United Nations estimates at least 200,000 people have been
killed in Darfur with a further 2.5 million displaced since the
conflict began in 2003.

