

Malaysia will not meet a Saturday deadline to name a strategic
partner for ailing national automaker Proton while German giant
Volkswagen said Friday talks on a tie-up continue.


Second Finance Minister Nor Mohamed Yakcop said the government
was still reviewing options and could not meet its March 31
deadline, according to state media and a senior official in the
minister's office.


"What he effectively said is that (the government) could not meet
the end of March deadline as the government was still evaluating
options and that no final decision could be made," the official
in the minister's office told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"He said he expected that the government could bring final
closure to this matter soon," the official said, adding the
minister made no reference to a report on Friday that VW had
pulled out of talks with Proton.


Volkswagen, Europe's biggest car maker, said Friday it was still
negotiating with Proton over a possible accord after a Singapore
newspaper reported that the German company had pulled out of the
talks.


"There are still talks. We're still negotiating," a VW spokesman
in Germany said.


Singapore's Straits Times earlier quoted a senior Malaysian
government official as saying Volkswagen had informed Khazanah
Nasional, Proton's major shareholder, of its decision to withdraw
on Thursday.


"Clearly, they don't want to pour any resources into turning
Proton around," the newspaper cited the unidentified official as
saying.


Proton shares hit a low of 6.20 ringgit (1.79 dollars), a fall of
6.8 percent or 0.45 ringgit, during the morning session before
recovering to 6.30 ringgit in the afternoon as Volkswagen's
statement came through.


Proton officials Friday refused to comment on the Singapore
report.


Earlier this month, negotiations with French car giant PSA
Peugeot-Citroen collapsed in what has turned into a long running
saga to find a partner for the struggling Malaysian company.


Analysts say a foreign partner is crucial to Proton's survival as
it battles sliding sales due to growing competition from local
and imported autos.


It posted a third consecutive quarterly losses, of 281.45 million
ringgit (80.40 million dollars), in the three months to December
compared with a net profit of 86.51 million ringgit a year
earlier.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi late last week said that
while Proton was in talks with Volkswagen it could turn to US
auto giant General Motors if those discussions failed.


Auto analyst with Alliance Investment Bank, Mohamad Hanafi, noted
a key problem in forging a deal -- the government is reluctant to
cede control of a national company to foreign hands.


"It's a delicate balance for the government to try to retain
Malaysia's interest as far as possible and at the same time give
sufficient control to the strategic partner," Hanafi said.


"The Malaysian government regards Proton as a national asset and
it's not ready to surrender control to a foreigner," he added.


TA Securities analyst Rosnani Rasul said a partner would be able
to make use of Proton's under-utilised production facilities.


"The most important thing that a foreign partner would be able to
do is to bring in technology," Rosnani told AFP.


An auto analyst from a local brokerage, who asked not to be
named, said that apart from a foreign partner, Proton would have
to dig deep within the organisation to turn around its fortunes.


"Proton cannot depend on a foreign partner alone. It has to come
up with its own initiatives," he said.

