

German Chancellor Angela Merkel heads to the Middle East on
Saturday to lend Europe's support to the fresh Arab-led momentum
in efforts to find peace between Israel and the Palestinians.


Merkel will stop in Jordan, Israel, Lebanon and the Palestinian
territories over three days.


After recent visits to the region by US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Merkel
wants to "make her contribution" as the head of the country which
currently holds the six-month presidency of the European Union,
German officials said.


Her trip comes hot on the heels of a meeting of the Arab League
that ended in Riyadh on Thursday with agreement among Arab
leaders to relaunch a five-year-old peace plan that has been
rejected by Israel as it stands.


The proposal, offering Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 war, allows the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


Israel refused to accept the initiative, although Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert acknowledged that it represented a "revolutionary
change" in Arab thinking.


Germany sees the plan as a chance to increase the "momentum"
behind the peace process, officials said.


Merkel will discuss the outcome of the Arab League meeting with
Saudi King Abdullah in the Jordanian capital Amman on Saturday.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana returned from addressing
the Riyadh meeting hailing the "new consensus" among Arab states
for a peace process.


One of the German leader's main aims on her trip is to get "a
picture of the situation" following the naming in mid-March of
the new Palestinian unity government of Hamas militants and
Western-backed Fatah, officials said.


She will hold two meetings with Olmert, either side of talks with
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


Merkel will carry an uncompromising and unchanging message to
Abbas on behalf of Europe: unless the new Palestinian government
implements the conditions laid down by the Quartet on the Middle
East, the international community will not work with it.


The unity government has refused to meet demands set by the
Quartet -- the EU, the United States, Russia and the United
Nations -- to renounce violence, recognise Israel and abide by
past peace accords.


Germany has made reviving the work of the Quartet one of the
priorities of its EU presidency and oversaw a meeting in Berlin
in February which produced little apart from a promise to meet
again soon.


European sources said this week that initial plans were being
made for the next Quartet meeting to take place soon, possibly at
the Egyptian resort of Sharm el- Sheikh in the second half of
April.


As the Quartet resumes its multi-lateral efforts to find peace,
Washington has switched tactics, with Rice spearheading a new
approach of "parallel" talks between the Israelis and
Palestinians.


Merkel discussed Rice's latest visit with US President George W.
Bush by telephone on Tuesday. Germany welcomed the agreement
struck during her visit that Abbas and Olmert will meet every 14
days.


In Lebanon, Merkel is scheduled to meet beleaguered Western-
backed Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and Nabih Berri, the
parliament speaker and an influential pro-Syrian leader.


The chancellor is also expected to visit one of the German ships
taking part in the UNIFIL peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon
which was reinforced after last year's devastating war between
Israel and the Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah.

