

A Vietnamese Catholic priest and pro-democracy activist went on
trial Friday on charges of undermining the communist state, a
charge that could see him return to jail.


Nguyen Van Ly, 60, could face up to 20 years in prison if
convicted of spreading propaganda against the state by a court in
the central city of Hue.


Activists say the case, in which four other dissidents are in the
dock with Ly, is part of an intensified crackdown by the Hanoi
authorities on civil liberties.


At the start of the trial, a gaunt and handcuffed Ly defiantly
yelled "down with the communist party" twice before a policeman
covered his mouth and moved him to a separate room.


The trial, set to last just one day, is the first of several
expected in the coming months against prominent pro-democracy
advocates, including two Hanoi human rights lawyers detained this
month.


More than a dozen diplomats and foreign journalists attended
Friday's trial.


In an unusual step, authorities allowed foreign observers to be
in the court for the first and last five minutes of the
proceedings. They were to watch the remainder on closed-circuit
television.


Ly -- who has spent a total of 14 years in prison since 1983 for
acting against the state -- is accused of resuming his political
activities after he was freed from jail in a 2005 amnesty and
placed under house arrest.


Police say he is a founding member of the outlawed "Bloc 8406"
pro-democracy coalition, named after its April 8 launch last
year, and was active in the banned Vietnam Progression Party and
another group with overseas links.


Police raided his residence on February 18 and seized computers,
mobile phone cards, Internet connection devices and stacks of
documents, and moved him to the Ben Cui parish, about 20
kilometres (12 miles) from Hue.


Under article 88 of Vietnam's criminal code, which bans
"propagating against" the state, he would face three to 12 years
in jail if found guilty, or a 20-year sentence for "particularly
serious crimes."

