

Australian energy infrastructure group Alinta recommended
acceptance Friday of a 6.0 billion US dollar takeover bid by a
consortium involving Babcock and Brown and Singapore Power.


Alinta's board said the recommendation was conditional on an
independent expert's valuation of Alinta shares and the absence
of a superior bid.


The cash and scrip offer values Alinta at 7.4 billion Australian
dollars (6.0 billion US) or 15 dollars a share.


The board has spent the past week deciding on offers for the
company following a bungled management buyout proposal at the
start of the year.


Alinta shares were suspended from trade earlier and were last
quoted at 14.15 dollars.


The board said in a statement that the offer represents a 39
percent premium to the stock's 30-day average price.


"While it will be sad to see the end of Alinta as a listed
company, the consortium's offer is an attractive one," chairman
John Akehurst said.


The bidding for Alinta began after former chief executive Bob
Browning and former chairman John Poynton proposed a management
buy-out in January.


Investment and advisory firm Babcock and Brown's chief executive
Phil Green said the offer was unique.


"Through our partnership with Singapore Power we have been able
to structure a unique offer which delivers benefits to all
stakeholders," he said.


"The transaction delivers Babcock and Brown's specialised funds
and asset management platform access to high quality,
strategically important assets, which are complimentary to
existing asset portfolios and deliver significant scale and
synergies.


"The cash generative nature of the assets will allow the funds to
continue to focus on a strong cash distribution profile," Green
said.


The offer will be made via a scheme of arrangement which will
require the approval of 75 percent of Alinta's shareholders.


The board decided on the Babcock and Brown/Singapore Power
proposal over what was believed to have been a more complex
proposal from investment bank Macquarie.


Akehurst confirmed the board had received proposals to acquire
the company from two consortia and had been in negotiation with
them over the last six days.


"There has been a thorough and rigorous evaluation in which due
regard has been given to the value of the considerations offered
and to the conditions and risks associated with the proposals,"
Akehurst said in a statement.


He said the proposals were also compared against possible
internal restructuring alternatives which led the board to
conclude that the Babcock and Brown/Singapore Power consortium's
proposal was superior.


Since its listing on the ASX in 2000, Alinta has grown from a
small, Western Australia-based gas distributor and retailer to
become Australia's largest energy infrastructure company.

