

Finance minister Gordon Brown, likely to be Britain's next prime
minister, suffered a double blow in the opinion polls on Friday,
with a survey showing his Labour party lost ground nationally,
and in Brown's native Scotland.


With elections for local councils, as well as the Scottish and
Welsh assemblies due in early May, the YouGov survey in The Daily
Telegraph showed Labour unchanged from a month ago on 32 percent
in the national poll, while the main opposition Conservatives
gained two percentage points to 39 percent.


The Liberal Democrats, Britain's third-biggest political party,
were unchanged on 17 percent.


When asked to choose between a Labour government led by Brown or
a Tory government led by Conservative Party leader David Cameron,
44 percent opted for the latter, compared with 34 percent who
backed Brown.


In Scotland, meanwhile, the poll showed support for the Scottish
National Party (SNP), which supports full independence, at 35
percent, while support for Labour was at 25 percent.


If reproduced in the election, the SNP would have 46 seats in the
129-seat parliament, while Labour would have 39. The
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats would each have 18, while
the Greens would have five, and independents would take the
remaining three seats.


At the moment, Scotland is governed by a Labour-Liberal Democrat
coalition.


The SNP, which is committed to holding a referendum on
independence if elected, as the biggest party in the Scottish
parliament, would be able to either search for a coalition
partner, or form a minority government.


Under British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Scotland was in 1999
granted powers to re-establish its own parliament and pass laws
in health, education, housing and the environment, but not in
defence, foreign and economic policy.


Scottish parliamentarians are elected in two ways -- 73 are
chosen in local constituency elections where the candidate with
the most votes wins, and the remaining 56 are chosen via a
proportional representation system on a wider regional basis,
meaning every Scottish voter casts two votes.


YouGov questioned 2,042 people between March 26 and 28 for the
survey.

