

A top US military prosecutor defended the case against Australian
David Hicks on Thursday amid fresh doubts about the future of the
"war on terror" tribunals in Guantanamo.


The chief prosecutor for the tribunals, Colonel Morris Davis,
dismissed criticism that Hicks did not qualify as a serious
terror suspect or that his guilty plea was merely a way of
getting out of the Guantanamo detention camp.


Davis said it was not merely terrorist ringleaders who needed to
be prosecuted but men like Hicks, who has admitted to training at
Al-Qaeda camps and volunteering to fight in support of the
Taliban.


"It's those tactical soldiers out on the front line that need to
be held accountable, just like the strategic thinkers," Davis
told reporters at the US naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


"So when you ask why are people like David Hicks being held to
account, it's because they play an important part in the war on
terrorism," he said.


As Davis portrayed the case as an important first step in the
life of the new tribunals, the secretary of defense overseeing
the commissions questioned if the trials would hold credibility
in the eyes of the world.


"My own view is that because of things that happened earlier at
Guantanamo there is a taint about it," Defense Secretary Robert
Gates told lawmakers in Washington.


Gates said he had lobbied to have the trials moved to the United
States "because I felt that no matter how transparent, no matter
how open the trials, if they took place in Guantanamo in the
international community they would lack credibility."


Gates's candid assessment of Guantanamo's dismal image marked a
dramatic break with past policy, and underlined the legal
uncertainty surrounding the controversial tribunals and heavily-
guarded prison.


The tribunals, or commissions, have been reconstituted under a
new law after the US Supreme Court declared an earlier version
unconstitutional. But rights groups say the tribunals flout the
rules of regular US courts and deny the accused a fair trial.


Gates said resolving the future of Guantanamo posed a challenge
because the approximately 385 detainees included a "hard core" of
terror suspects who pose a genuine threat and should never be
released.


Hicks was one of the first detainees to arrive at Guantanamo more
than five years ago, at a time when the inmates were described by
the US administration as "the worst of the worst."


But charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the enemy
were dropped against Hicks. And prosecutors settled for a plea
deal on a watered-down charge of providing "material support to
terrorism," following heavy lobbying from the Australian
government to expedite his case.


Davis rejected criticism that Hicks's plea was less than sincere,
saying the former ranch hand on the Australian outback will be
under solemn oath when he appears in court on Friday.


Dressed in civilian clothes, Hicks will appear before a military
judge on Friday to affirm the facts of the charge. Once the judge
approves the guilty plea, a panel of commissioned officers will
hand down a sentence -- the first ever by the tribunals.


Australian media, citing government officials, said the sentence
might require Hicks to serve an additional one to three years
behind bars in his home country.


Although the prosecutors had spoken about a possible 20-year
sentence for Hicks, Davis said the prosecution would seek
"substantially less" than that and take into account the five
years he has already spent behind bars.


Such an outcome will be sure to prompt more criticism from rights
advocates, who say Hicks could have been tried in a regular US
court given the nature of the charge.


In Washington, Democratic lawmakers warned Gates that there was
no room for error in trying terror suspects.


"The bottom line is that we must prosecute those who are
terrorists with the full force of the law, but we must also make
sure that the convictions stick," said House Armed Services
Committee Chairman Ike Skelton.

