

At least 11 people were killed as fighting raged between
Pakistani tribesmen and foreign Al-Qaeda militants in a troubled
region bordering Afghanistan, officials and residents said
Friday.


Both sides used mortars, heavy guns and rocket-propelled grenades
in battles overnight in South Waziristan, following the collapse
of a week-long ceasefire. Intermittent firing continued on Friday
morning.


Violence first erupted in the region on March 19 when a Taliban
commander- turned-government supporter ordered Uzbek and Chechen
militants led by wanted rebel Tahir Yuldashev to disarm, leaving
160 people dead last week.


Tribesmen on Thursday seized control of a school which the Uzbeks
were using as their base in Ghawakha, a town near the regional
capital Wana. "Seven Uzbeks were killed in the building," a
security official said.


Another official said three tribal fighters were also killed and
six wounded in the fighting. Three Uzbeks were wounded and four
captured in different incidents.


Foreign militants also shot dead a local man who was travelling
in the area on his motorbike, residents said.


The government says the latest developments reflect the success
of its policy to encourage local tribesmen to expel foreign Al-
Qaeda militants, instead of costly and politically damaging army
operations.


Thousands of Al-Qaeda and Taliban militants fled into Pakistan's
tribal areas after the fall of the fundamentalist Taliban regime
in Afghanistan in late 2001.


Yuldashev, the Uzbek leader, was formerly a close confidant of
Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, officials say.


The latest clashes were concentrated in the mountainous Azam
Warsak, Shen Warsak and Kalusha areas near the Afghan border.
Residents say between 300 and 500 Uzbeks and Chechens are holed
up in the area.


The Uzbeks were effectively under seige in the mountainous
terrain as all roads leading to the troubled towns were being
controlled by tribal commander Mullah Nazir, whose men are said
to number around 1,500, they said.


A tribal leader, Haji Sharif, late Thursday ruled out any
negotiations.


"We gave them shelter under our traditional Pashtun hospitality
but they misused it and killed our people including tribal
leaders," he said.


"We advised them to change their behaviour but they did not
listen. Now we cannot tolerate them on our soil."

