

Troubled pop star Britney Spears reached a divorce settlement
Thursday with Kevin Federline less than two years after the pair
married, People magazine reported on its website.


The terms of the deal, reached in a five-hour meeting attended by
the former couple and their lawyers at the Los Angeles office of
Spears' attorney, were not revealed, People said.


"The parties signed a global settlement on all issues of their
marriage and the custody of the children," Michael Sands, a
spokesman for Federline's attorney Mark Vincent Kaplan, told the
celebrity news magazine.


Spears, 25, and Federline, 29, got married in a surprise ceremony
in September 2004. They have two sons, aged 18 months and six
months. The singer filed for divorce in November, citing
irreconcilable differences.


News of the settlement emerged days after Spears left a
rehabilitation center on March 20.


Spears "successfully" completed the program at the Promises
Malibu Treatment Center in California, her manager, Larry
Rudolph, was quoted as saying by People last week.


She had first checked herself in on February 20, after she shaved
her head at a hair salon within view of paparazzi, and then
briefly checked out again the next day.


But she returned to the center in Malibu reportedly after
Federline, a former back-up dancer, threatened a custody battle
over their two children.


The estranged husband, who took care of the children during her
treatment, had declined to return custody to Spears until he was
satisfied with her follow- through to rehab, People said.


The singer stunned staff at a suburban Los Angeles beauty salon
last month by walking in and demanding they cut off her mane of
brunette hair extensions.


When staff refused, Spears grabbed a set of clippers and shaved
her head to the delight of a crowd of paparazzi who had gathered
outside to watch.


Spears has never been far from the media spotlight ever since she
announced plans to divorce Federline last November.


Entertainment media have followed her every misstep since then,
including her appearance in public in a short dress without
panties, clearly evident in unflattering photographs which
quickly flew over the Internet.

