

Volkswagen, Europe's biggest car maker, said Friday it was still
negotiating with ailing Malaysian auto group Proton over a
possible tie-up, despite a newspaper report which said that the
German giant had pulled out of the talks.


"There are still talks. We're still negotiating," a VW spokesman
told AFP.


According to a report in the Singapore-based daily Straits Times,
VW has ditched its plans for a tie-up with Proton.


"Clearly, they don't want to pour any resources into turning
Proton around," the newspaper quoted an unidentified Malaysian
government official as saying.


Proton already saw similar tie-up talks with French car giant PSA
Peugeot- Citroen collapse earlier this month.


Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi indicated last
week that Proton might turn to US auto giant General Motors if
the discussions with VW failed.


Three Malaysian automotive firms have also expressed interest in
taking a stake in the company, which reported a loss of 80
million dollars (60 million euros) in the last three months of
2006.


Proton's passenger car sales fell by 11 percent to 490,000 units
last year and its market share fell to 32 percent from 40
percent.


The government had set a deadline of this Saturday for announcing
a partner for Proton but Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Najib
Razak said Wednesday the the deadline might not be met.


Earlier this month, VW's head of international sales, Kevin Rose,
had told the Financial Times that the German auto giant was "very
close" to striking a deal that would give VW a large slice of
southeast Asia's biggest passenger car market.


The Malaysian government wants to sell a 50-percent stake in
Proton and transfer management to a western group in order to
help shore up the company, FT had said.


Buying Proton would complement VW's plants in China and its Skoda
factory in India. The German giant sees the fast-growing
southeast Asian region as a big hole in its expansive Asian
strategy, FT said.


Rose told the newspaper that VW intended to build a new small
sedan and other models targeted at the Asia-Pacific region at
Proton plants if it secured the deal.

