

The giant A380 superjumbo has been put through its paces here to
demonstrate the features troubled Airbus says make this flagship
project a world beater that no airline can afford to be without.


Arriving from Frankfurt on a route-proving flight by Lufthansa,
which has ordered 15 of the planes, the A380 dwarfed Boeing 747s
nearby at Hong Kong's Chek Lap Kok airport which was designed
with such huge aircraft in mind.


Ground crew crowded round, getting their colleagues to snap their
picture with the plane as the backdrop while passengers stopped
to look and point in the bustling terminal where it made an
undeniable impact.


It is simply very big -- the biggest passenger jet ever built,
the tallest, the widest, the quietest, the most comfortable and
most economical, a series of superlatives Airbus says make it so
unique that it will radically alter how we travel, just as the
original 747 jumbo did when it first flew in 1969.


The A380 "is changing the game ... a plane that will give
airlines a competitive advantage" over their rivals in a fast
growing industry being led by Asia, said Ian MacDougall, deputy
vice president for marketing.


Expanding 4.8 percent a year globally, 22,000 aircraft worth 2.6
trillion dollars will be built by 2025, of which 1,665 will be
wide-bodied models worth 20 percent of the total, MacDougall
said.


Stressing Airbus' strategy of building planes to fly between
major hubs, and with Hong Kong slated to emerge as the largest in
Asia, he said the A380 was "designed for world growth."


Rival Boeing, while upgrading the venerable jumbo to a larger
747-8 model, is instead counting on a lower-density, point-to-
point strategy based on its 787 Dreamliner which has attracted
hundreds of orders so far.


The A380 has 156 but it has run into serious delivery delays
after technical problems in making the plane which led US
logistics giant UPS to drop an order for 10 of the freighter
versions earlier this month.


Airbus officials reiterated Saturday that those technical issues
have been resolved and that the project was back on track, with
first delivery to launch customer Singapore Airlines due in
October.


Significantly missing on the roster of A380 customers is Cathay
Pacific, the high profile Hong Kong flag carrier whose biggest
single order to date was for 36 long-range Boeing 777-300ER
aircraft in late 2005.


At the time, the deal was seen as a blow for the A380. Asked
about the issue Saturday in its home base, MacDougall would only
say: "Cathay Pacific is the sort of airline that needs 380s for
the future."


Analysts say the problem for Airbus is that Cathay Pacific's
strategy is based more on the point-to-point model espoused by
Boeing.


An official at the Sydney-based Centre for Asia-Pacific Aviation
told AFP that Airbus was pitching the A380 strongly in Asia,
highlighting its capacity for huge passenger numbers and long
range hub connections.


However, some Asian airlines such as Cathay Pacific wanted to
pursue a different strategy, he said.


"They're looking at flying smaller numbers of passengers on more
frequent flights. So where you might only have one service a day
to a particular city on the A380, you could have two or three on
a smaller aircraft, offering business passengers more
flexibility."


As for the A380's virtues? On a two-hour demonstration flight for
the press Saturday, there was no denying the smoothness of the
ride, the quiet of the cabin -- set up for 525 passengers, not
the maximum 840 -- and the soothing tones of the pastel coloured
interior, all light yellows, lilacs and greens.


There was the novelty too of actually going for a walk on board,
upstairs and downstairs, which seemed obligatory, and standing up
against the small bar in the first class section, also a must.


It all seemed very calming and comfortable, like a flight should
be but so often is not when one is crammed into economy class.


The passengers on the incoming flight wandered around a lot when
they first came on board to check out all the new features, said
one Airbus official.


"After that, they just settled down and went to sleep for the
journey."

