

A unanimous Security Council vote slapping fresh UN sanctions on
Iran over its suspect nuclear program signals Tehran's growing
isolation, envoys of major powers say, while offering to resume
talks to defuse the crisis.


The council's 15 members voted Saturday to expand UN punitive
measures imposed on the Islamic Republic in December after it
repeatedly refused to halt uranium enrichment, which major powers
suspect could be a cover to develop nuclear arms.


France's UN Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere said the
council's united stand left Tehran with "a very clear choice:
either suspend enrichment and then the council suspends its
measures or increase its isolation . . . We hope Iran will make
the right choice."


In Washington, US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns hailed
the vote as "a significant international rebuke to Iran and a
significant tightening of the international pressure" on the
Islamic Republic.


"The international community is united, it's time for Iran to
comply or potentially face harsher measures in the future," said
Gordon Johndroe, spokesman for the White House's National
Security Council.


The six powers trying to rein in Tehran's nuclear ambitions --
Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States --
also urged a negotiated way out of the crisis.


In a statement, their foreign ministers proposed "further talks
with the Islamic Republic of Iran to see if a mutually acceptable
way can be found to open negotiations."


Reiterating that the package of economic, diplomatic and security
incentives they offered Tehran last June was still on the table,
the statement read: "We urge Iran to take this opportunity to
engage with us all and to find a negotiated way forward. Our
proposals would bring far-reaching benefits to Iran and to the
region."


Burns said European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana and
other EU diplomats would contact the Iranian government "in the
days and weeks ahead to see if they might reconsider their
obstinate refusal to renegotiate."


There was no early sign that Iran was willing to back down.


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki swiftly dismissed the
UN sanctions as "unlawful" and "unjustifiable actions"
orchestrated by Western members of the council.


"This is the fourth time in the last 12 months that in an
unwarranted move orchestrated by a few of its permanent members,
the Security Council is being abused to take an unlawful,
unnecessary and unjustifiable action against the peaceful nuclear
program of the Islamic Republic of Iran," he told the Council
after the vote.


"As we have stressed time time again, Iran's nuclear program is
completely peaceful," Mottaki said. "We have expressed our
readiness, taken unprecedented steps and offered several serious
proposals to address and ally any possible concern."


Russia, which along with China has energy interests in Iran but
has recently taken a tougher line against Tehran, urged the
Iranians to respond to the offer of the six powers.


"The cumulative effect of the unanimous adoption of the
resolution and the strong positive signal of the six foreign
ministers should be properly appreciated and responded to by
Iranian authorities," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said.


Iran had hoped for stronger support within the Council from
fellow non-aligned nations such as South Africa, and fellow
Muslim countries such as Indonesia and Qatar.


But despite their reservations about the resolution, and their
sympathy for Iran's argument that it has the right to enrich
uranium for peaceful purposes, South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar
voted in favor because of the "lack of international confidence"
in the nature of the Iranian nuclear program.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to generate electricity. Enriched uranium can provide the raw
material for both military and civilian nuclear use.


The new resolution, agreed after days of closed-door bargaining,
blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the overseas assets
of 28 additional officials and institutions linked to Iran's
nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.

