

After struggling to find a voice in the post-apartheid era, South
Africa's Afrikaner population has latched onto an anthem about a
long-dead general to express their identity.


From Amersfoort to Zeerust, at bars and barbeques, Afrikaners
from all walks of life are electrified when they hear the
rousing: "De La Rey, De La Rey, will you come lead the Boers?"


"We are proudly Afrikaans, proud of our language, proud of our
culture. Are you?" singer Bok van Blerk asked the crowd at a
concert, eliciting a loud cheer of approval.


The nostalgic, catchy tune musically recounts the tale of
Afrikaners hunkered down on a dark, bloody battlefield in the
pouring rain, hoping that Anglo-Boer General Koos De La Rey will
lead them forward in war.


That was in the early 1900s. But the scene and song have taken on
contemporary significance for Afrikaners, who fear they might
slip into political and cultural obscurity as the country
transforms in the post-apartheid era.


At the concert in Krugersdorp, outside of Johannesburg, a crowd
of more than a thousand Afrikaners roared as the opening notes of
the song fill the air. In unison they stood and punched the air,
or held their hand over their heart.


Above the sea of white faces, the old South African flag whipped
in the wind alongside the orange, red, white and blue "Vierkleur"
-- literally four colours banner considered the official flag of
the Boer.


Van Blerk, who has said he is opposed to the flying of the old
flags, said his song was meant to tell a story and pull the
Afrikaans nation together -- not to trigger this fierce show of
nationalism.


"Some people say it is a need for a leader, somebody to represent
the Afrikaner and stand up for things they would like. Maybe
people are fed up with the situation they find themselves in,
with the crime, and it's just the right time," he told AFP before
the show.


Earlier this month, former president FW De Klerk said that non-
blacks felt like second-class citizens in South Africa, a
sentiment felt by many of the country's roughly three million
Afrikaners who believe they are being marginalised in terms of
culture, language and history.


Although he is against shows of nationalism, Van Blerk said he
was happy his song has sent people back to their history books.


"In South African history textbooks, there are only four lines
about the Anglo- Boer war. It has been wiped away like it never
happened."


Tim du Plessis, editor of the Afrikaans weekly, Rapport, said the
song was a conduit for Afrikaner frustration that came at the
right moment, with the right lyrics and the right tune.


He said it was the Afrikaans people's way of saying: "We are
here, we are a bit sick and tired of being delegitimised and
being seen as solely responsible for all the terrible things that
happened under apartheid.


"People are also saying, things are starting to go wrong in this
country, the government's capacity is diminishing and you cannot
blame apartheid indefinitely," he told AFP.


Outspoken columnist Max du Preez disagreed with this explanation
saying Afrikaners -- traumatised at seeing their "once cosy white
Afrikaner world collapsing around them" -- were craving a sense
of belonging.


"I think they simply feel unwanted, isolated, insecure, confused,
rudderless."


South Africa's right-wing element has also latched on to the
song, which has brought a warning from the Arts and Culture
Department that it could be hijacked by extremists, who would see
it as a call to arms.


Afrikaner nationalism mostly disappeared after the fall of
apartheid, save for a few oddball antics by right-wing
organisations like the Boeremag, but the latest swell in tribal
thinking is worrying to some.


Despite the controversy, the song and the nationalism it has
fired up has found support in some unlikely political quarters.


Deputy president of the ruling African National Congress (ANC),
Jacob Zuma -- whose followers are whipped into a frenzy when he
sings the song 'Awuleth umshini wam (Bring me my machine gun)' --
said Afrikaners were as entitled to remember their heroes as are
his fellow Zulus.


"Mshini Wam is a song of my history. Why should Afrikaners not
remember their heroes?" he said.

