

A spokesman for Britain's Prince Harry denied the young royal was
once again involved in a drunken scuffle with a photographer
outside a nightclub, following newspaper reports Sunday.


A red-faced Harry, third in line to the throne, was pictured
stumbling to the ground and being helped to his feet outside an
exclusive west London nightclub at 3:00 am Saturday.


In another shot he is seen standing leaning forward with his arms
outstretched, closely behind running photographer Nirach Tanner
-- who claimed the army officer tried to assault him.


Clarence House, Harry's official residence, denied any suggestion
that the 22 -year-old was involved in a fracas.


Harry scuffled with a paparazzi photographer outside a nightclub
in 2004 and has earned a reputation for boisterous antics.


"He was very drunk. I took a few shots of him and he just came
for me," Tanner told News of the World, Britain's biggest-selling
newspaper.


The prince "grabbed me and tried to shove me over. He had his
hands around my collar and back.


"It was an assault. I've never known anything like it before."


Another photographer told the weekly tabloid: "His bodyguard
tried to stop him getting hold of Tanner but then things went
pear-shaped when Harry tried to change direction.


"He turned sharply left, completely lost his footing and fell on
his backside. He was all over the place."


A Clarence House spokesman said: "He was out with friends and on
the way out of the nightclub he stumbled on the kerb and fell on
the photographer.


"There was no aggressive intent, they were laughing at it at the
time."


Pictures of Harry and his fellow army officer brother Prince
William, 24, exiting London nightclubs regularly appear in
British newspapers, which revel in the young royals' late-night
antics.


William was pictured in the Sunday Mirror with a blonde student
Lisa Agar in a nightclub in Bournemouth on the southern English
coast, near the Bovington Camp army barracks.


The 19-year-old said the prince knocked back sambuca and lager
before dancing with her on a podium.


Agar also claimed he later invited her back to barracks -- where
the tired prince soon went to bed.


"He was very merry and danced non-stop. Him and his mates were
doing silly dances -- singing along loudly and doing ridiculous
moves," she told the newspaper.


Clarence House declined to comment.

