

The Canadian company that sold tainted pet food blamed for at
least 14 pet deaths expanded its product recall Saturday, saying
it worried consumers could still find the products on store
shelves.


Toronto-based Menu Foods said some of its pet foods, possibly
tainted with a toxin used as rat poison, were still being sold.


The company said store owners should remove all of its products,
regardless of the production date.


"As a result of reports from the FDA (US Federal Drug
Administration) and various media outlets that some recalled lots
of 'cuts and gravy' style wet pet food remain on store shelves,
Menu Foods has asked all retail outlets to immediately remove all
impacted varieties of wet pet food posted at www.menufoods.com,
regardless of the date code," the company said in a statement.


"Menu Foods remains concerned that consumers are able to purchase
recalled items," it said.


"There is no known risk from items not listed on the recall list
but an abundance of caution is called for in this situation. FDA
has been apprised of this action," it said.


Last week the Menu Foods recalled 60 million cans and pouches of
food made in the United States and sold under 95 different brand
names after reports that house pets were falling sick and dying
after eating the some of their products.


On Friday US scientists in New York identified a toxin used for
rat poison in the tainted pet food.


The toxin, called aminopterin, can cause cancers and birth
defects in humans and kidney damage in cats and dogs.


Stephen Sundlof, who leads the US Food and Drug Administration's
veterinary medicine center, said at least 14 pets have died from
the tainted food.


Menu Foods President Paul Henderson said Friday the company would
compensate owners of animals that died or became ill from its
products, but did not know how the toxin got into their products.


ABC television reported that the toxin had been found in wheat
imported from China used in the pet food.


Several lawsuits have been filed in US and Canadian courts
following the pet deaths.

