

Indian batting superstar Sachin Tendulkar may be the world's
leading one-day scorer, but his dream of winning the World Cup is
unlikely to be realised.


His future as a World Cup player appears uncertain after India
were pushed to the brink of elimination after suffering defeats
against Sri Lanka and Bangladesh in the four-team group here.


Ace leg-spinner Anil Kumble, and batsmen Sourav Ganguly and Rahul
Dravid also may not get a chance to win the Cup for India as all
of them are in their mid- 30s and one more tournament will be one
too many for them.


Tendulkar turns 34 next month and may not be there when the Cup
arrives in the sub-continent in 2011. But he will be disappointed
with the way he performed in his fifth World Cup.


He hardly did justice to his stature in important group matches,
scoring seven against Bangladesh and a duck against Sri Lanka in
a must-win game.


His team expected a lot more from a batsman who was the highest
scorer in the 2003 edition in South Africa with 673 runs in 11
matches.


It is not yet certain whether Tendulkar will follow Pakistan
skipper Inzamam-ul- Haq and West Indies captain Brian Lara in
quitting one-day cricket and concentrating on Tests alone after
the ongoing World Cup.


What is certain is that it will be impossible to replace
Tendulkar, who has been dominating the bowling on all surfaces
with his exciting stroke-play since his international debut in
1989.


He is the top scorer in one-day internationals with 14,847 runs
in 384 matches with a record 41 centuries and the fourth-highest
in Tests with 10,688.


Stylish left-handed batsman Ganguly and Dravid are the other
batsmen in the 10,000-club, who have been serving the team
remarkably well for more than a decade in the shorter version of
the game with their consistency.


Ganguly has solved India's major problem of finding an effective
opener as he has given sound starts on a number of occasions with
his shrewd shot-selection, while Dravid has provided solidity to
the middle order with his sound technique and temperament.


Kumble has won many matches for his team in both forms of the
game with his intelligent bowling. He is not a big turner of the
ball, but has the accuracy and subtle variations to test the best
on any surface.


Like Tendulkar, Kumble also had a forgettbale World Cup having
figured in one of his team's three games, against debutants
Bermuda. He is seventh-highest wicket- taker in one-dayers with
337 in 271 matches.


India will shed much of their bowling strength when Kumble quits
international cricket, but they have the batsmen for the future.


It will be impossible to find the replacements for Tendulkar,
Ganguly and Dravid for the next World Cup, but there are some
talented batsmen who have proved they can serve India for a long
time.


Yuvraj Singh, 25, has been fast emerging as an excellent finisher
in the shorter version of the game with his ability to win
matches for his team from tight situations. He has the shots to
dominate any attack when on song.


Wicket-keeper Mahendra Dhoni, 25, is another explosive batsman
who can alter the course of a match in a few overs with his
breath-taking shots. He rose to fame with a blistering century
against Pakistan at Visakhapatnam in 2005.


Robin Uthappa and Dinesh Karthik, both 21, are other batsmen for
the future, having the temperament to excel in the tough
international arena.


With hard-hitting opener Virender Sehwag, 28, having plenty of
cricket left in him, India will have the batting to compete with
the best in future, but they will have to find match-winning
bowlers soon.

