

Palestinians hope to solidify support for their new unity cabinet
during an upcoming Arab summit in Riyadh, while Israel will watch
from afar for changes to a Saudi-inspired peace plan that it says
are necessary to jump-start talks.


With their rival factions united in a government after months of
deadly clashes, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas of Fatah and
premier Ismail Haniya of Hamas will travel together to the summit
in the Saudi capital on March 28.


There they will aim to shore up support against a year-old
Western aid freeze to the Palestinian Authority, imposed after
Hamas formed a cabinet alone last year, and to warn against any
changes to the Saudi peace plan, as called for by Israel.


"Financial assistance to the Palestinians should be one of the
priorities of the Arab summit as the situation in the Palestinian
territories is becoming dramatic," Haniya's spokesman Ghazi Hamad
told AFP.


The so-called Mideast Quartet -- the European Union, Russia, the
United Nations and the United States -- have refused to resume
aid to the Palestinian Authority until the new cabinet renounces
violence, recognises Israel and agrees to past peace deals.


The new government has not agreed to abide by the conditions,
saying it would "respect" past peace accords, but affirming the
Palestinians' right to resistance.


After a year of shunning all diplomatic contacts with a
government of Hamas, which it considers a terror group, the West
has reached out to non-Hamas members of the new cabinet, meeting
with independent moderates like finance minister Salam Fayyad and
foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr.


The Quartet has also said that the new government would not be
judged solely on its "composition and platform, but also its
actions."


Palestinians are hoping their Arab allies can push the West to go
further.


"The Arab countries should help the Palestinian national unity
government break the embargo and expand political relations by
using their relations with the Americans and other countries,"
Hamad said.


The Palestinian delegation will also push for Arab states to
stand firm on their initiative for comprehensive Middle East
peace, proposed by Saudi Arabia and approved during a summit in
Beirut in 2002.


The plan calls for the Arab world to normalise relations with the
Jewish state in exchange for Israel withdrawing from occupied
Arab territory and the creation of a viable Palestinian state.


Israel had initially rejected the plan, but during the past few
weeks officials have repeatedly mentioned it as a possible
starting point for talks.


"The Saudi initiative is interesting and contains many parts I
would be ready to accept ... not all of them," Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert said last week.


"It could certainly form a convenient basis for future talks
between us and moderate Arab elements," he said. "Israel is ready
to make big and painful concessions in order to encourage" peace
negotiations.


But Israeli officials have insisted that two clauses that deal
with the right of return of Palestinian refugees be changed
before talks begin.


One calls for the return of Palestinians who fled or were forced
out in 1948 -- at the creation of the state of Israel -- while
the other rules out their permanent settlement in the Arab states
where they or their descendants currently live.


The Palestinians are hoping that the Arabs will stand firm in not
amending those clauses.


"The Arab initiative should remain as is, without any revision,"
foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr told AFP, echoing the position
expressed previously by Abbas and Egypt.

