

Four weeks ahead of France's presidential election, AFP is filing
a package of stories covering the personalities and issues at
stake.


We will shortly file the following:


France-vote


PARIS


With four weeks ahead of election day France's presidential
campaign begins in earnest, with polls showing the race is wide
open for the two front-runners, right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and
Socialist Segolene Royal.


690 words by Hugh Schofield. Graphic. Picture.


France-vote-issues


PARIS


Key presidential campaign proposals of the four top candidates --
Nicolas Sarkozy of the right-wing Union for a Popular Movement,
Segolene Royal of the Socialist Party, Francois Bayrou of the
centrist Union for French Democracy and Jean-Marie Le Pen of the
far-right National Front.


990 words. Graphic.


France-vote-change,SCENE


PARIS


Philippe Jacquot surveys the two dozen books on the French
presidential race in a Paris bookstore and declares that after
years of aversion to politics, he had decided to vote in next
month's election.


680 words by Carole Landry. Graphic. Picture.


France-vote-Sarkozy,PROFILE


PARIS


Nicolas Sarkozy, the tough-talking right-wing front-runner for
the French presidency, casts himself as a moderniser and the
natural candidate to lead France into a "clean break" with a
discredited past.


425 words. Graphic. File Picture.


France-vote-Royal,PROFILE


PARIS


Segolene Royal, the Socialist Party (PS) candidate who shot to
political stardom thanks to a highly personal campaigning style,
has lost much of her shine since the start of the year but still
sees herself as on course to becoming France's first woman
president.


450 words. Graphic. File Picture.


France-vote-Bayrou,PROFILE


PARIS


Francois Bayrou, who has emerged as a surprisingly strong
challenger in the presidential race, is a former teacher who
believes France must jettison the "prehistoric" left-right
political divide.


400 words. Graphic. File Picture.


France-vote-LePen,PROFILE


PARIS, March 25, 2007 (AFP) - French far-right leader Jean-Marie
Le Pen, who is standing in his fifth and probably last campaign
for the presidency, is a veteran politician who sees immigration
as the source of France's ills.


430 words. Graphic. File Picture.


France-vote-candidates,PROFILE


PARIS


The race for the French presidency is dominated by four
contenders, but eight other candidates, most of whom are on the
left, have a voice in the campaign.


430 words. File Picture.

