

French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who is standing in his
fifth and probably last campaign for the presidency, is a veteran
politician who sees immigration as the source of France's ills.


The head of the National Front became a force to be reckoned with
in French politics when he qualified for the runoff vote in the
2002 election against Jacques Chirac, beating Socialist Lionel
Jospin.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years, calling for an
end to immigration and a halt to European integration.


In this campaign he has sought to soften his image as a xenophobe
by featuring a woman of African origin on his posters, meeting
with black-rapper-from-the- suburbs Rost and visiting a Chinese
World War I cemetery.


A gifted orator, Le Pen rails against the establishment parties
of the left and right, accusing them of leading the country to
the brink of disaster.


But his signature issue is immigration. His election platform
calls for cutting off social benefits to foreigners and deporting
illegal immigrants, a stance that he has defended for decades.


Born in the Brittany village of La-Trinite-sur-Mer, Le Pen is the
son of a seamstress and fisherman. As a teenager, he became a
ward of the state when he was orphaned after his father died when
his boat hit a mine.


At age 27, he was first elected to parliament and went on to form
the National Front 16 years later in 1972.  He ran for the
presidency for the first time two years later.


He has been accused of promoting xenophobia and anti-Semitism
with his shock statements.


In 1987, he described Nazi gas chambers as a "detail" of history
and about the same time referred to AIDS "as a kind of leprosy."


In February, he dismissed the September 11, 2001 attacks as an
"incident," saying the death toll of 3,000 was equal to the
number of people killed in Iraq in a month.


Le Pen however maintains that his views, once dismissed as
extremist, are now part of mainstream politics. He claims that
right-wing rival Nicolas Sarkozy is copying his ideas.


Le Pen was treated for prostate cancer in 2002 and underwent hip
surgery in February 2005. While he has said he has no plans to
retire, there has been speculation that his failing health may
soon lead to him leaving political life.

