

Sinn Fein's chief negotiator Martin McGuinness, nominated to be
deputy leader in the Northern Ireland Assembly, is one of the
most controversial but recognisable figures in Irish politics.


According the script by London and Dublin, McGuinness would be
installed Monday as deputy first minister.


With Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, he has helped make the once
outlawed Irish republican cause an integral part of the political
establishment in the British- run province.


James Martin Pacelli McGuinness, 56, identified with militant
republicanism since the start of the 30 years of sectarian
violence in Northern Ireland.


He joined the Catholic Civil Rights Movement in his home city of
Derry (Londonderry) in 1968 aged 20 and Sinn Fein, now the main
Catholic political party, two years later.


As someone unionists once labelled him "the IRA godfather of
godfathers," it surprised few followers of Northern Ireland
politics that in May 2001 he confirmed his membership of the
Irish Republican Army in the 1970s.


That included being the IRA's second-in-command in Derry on
"Bloody Sunday", when 13 unarmed civil rights protesters were
shot dead by British paratroopers on January 30, 1972.


But he later declined to divulge further information to a British
government inquiry into the events of Bloody Sunday about IRA
members or operations in the city that day.


Accusations have flown around McGuinness ever since, including
that he had ordered the murders of Catholic informants, spied for
the British and has never relinquished his IRA membership.


Although he escaped internment -- a British policy in the 1970s
of detaining anyone thought to be a member of an illegal
paramilitary group without charge or trial -- he was convicted in
the Republic of Ireland.


He was sentenced to six months in prison in 1973 after being
caught with 250 pounds (113 kilogrammes) of explosives and nearly
5,000 rounds of ammunition in a car.


McGuinness refused to recognise the court and proudly declared
his membership of the IRA. A year earlier, he and Adams had had
their first negotiations with the British government.


His transformation to elected politician came in 1982 when he was
voted in to the short-lived Northern Ireland Assembly in Belfast,
but then banned from entering Britain under anti-terrorism laws.


He was involved in secret talks with British officials between
1990 and 1993 and then headed the Sinn Fein delegation to London
after the IRA ceasefire on August 31, 1994.


It was a role he also played in the landmark 1998 Good Friday
peace accords, that largely brought an end to the violence in
Northern Ireland and set up the power-sharing assembly.


McGuinness, a father of four, is also a Sinn Fein member of the
British parliament in London but has followed his party's
abstentionist policy and refused to take his oath of allegiance
to Queen Elizabeth II, the head of state.

