

Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on Saturday dismissed
the UN sanctions adopted by the Security Council against Iran as
"unlawful, unnecessary and unjustifiable actions" orchestrated by
some of its permanent members.


"This is the fourth time in the last 12 months that in an
unwarranted move orchestrated by a few of its permanent members,
the Security Council is being abused to take an unlawful,
unnecessary and unjustifiable action against the peaceful nuclear
program of the Islamic Republic of Iran," he told the Council.


Mottaki, who arrived late for the Council session, reiterated
that "Iran's nuclear program is completely peaceful" and did not
respond to an offer by the sponsors of the resolution to resume
negotiations to end the standoff.


He spoke after the council's 15 members unanimously adopted a
resolution expanding the sanctions imposed on Iran in December
for spurning repeated demands to freeze its uranium enrichment
program.


The new resolution bans all Iranian arms exports, freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to the Islamic Republic's nuclear and ballistic missile
programs, and restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran.


It gives Iran 60 days to comply with the repeated UN demands or
face "further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


The six major powers which crafted the resolution -- Britain,
China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States -- offered
to suspend the UN sanctions once the UN nuclear monitoring agency
verifies that Iran has complied with demands that it halt uranium
enrichment activities.


Mottaki replaced Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who late
Friday canceled his plans to address the council, as Tehran
blamed Washington for delaying his visa, a charge denied by US
officials.


"The Security Council's decision to try to coerce Iran into
suspension of its peaceful nuclear program is a gross violation
of the (UN) Charter, and contradicts the Iranian people's right
to development and the right to education," the Iranian minister
said.


He reaffirmed Iran's right to conduct uranium enrichment as
enshrined by the nuclear Non-Proliferaton Treaty which Tehran
signed.


Mottaki said the sanctions resolutions "do not even reflect the
views of the council's own 15 members, since most of them were
not thoroughly informed about, let alone, engaged in, the
discussions held in secret meetings where only a few, among them
non-members of the Council, decide for the whole Security
Council."


South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar, three non-permanent council
members expressed reservations about the resolution but decided
to vote in favor.

