

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on Saturday announced he was to
swear-in the first members of a new political party that would
unify his coalition of leftist supporters.


He also called on politicians that disagree with his decision to
create the Unified Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV) to "step
aside."


"I continue calling for unity over everything and those who do
not want this should step aside, but we are charging forth like
the cavalry," he said at an event for socialist women. "Unity is
absolutely necessary."


Chavez was re-elected in December with 63 percent of the votes.
His supporters have full control of the unicameral legislature,
the National Assembly.


In February the assembly granted him sweeping authority to decree
changes in 11 key state sectors, including the economy, the
military, transportation and oil.


Chavez was elected with support from his own organization, the
Fifth Republic Movement -- a coalition of small leftist parties
-- as well as three more established parties: the social-
democratic Podemos, the pro-labor Motherland for All, and the
Venezuelan Communist Party.


He has called for all those parties to be dissolved and merged
into the new Unified Socialist Party to further his goal to build
"a 21st century socialism" in Venezuela.


The unifying move "strengthens the revolution, because we know
how much damage a rotten orange does in a sack of oranges -- it
weakens," he said.


While the Fifth Republic group is no more, leaders of the other
parties are reluctant to dissolve their parties, much to Chavez's
annoyance.


Chavez said that his new Unified Socialist Party "is the starting
point of a new stage" that pushes in depth "all aspects of the
Venezuelan revolution."


The secretary general of Podemos, Ismael Garcia, in early March
rejected the "sole thought" and "state socialism" that he said
Chavez is pushing. A governor, mayors and legislators from
Podemos have since resigned from their posts.


Some 2,000 new Unified Socialist members are expected to take
their oath at the Saturday ceremony. On Independence Day, April
19, some 10,000 more members are scheduled to take their oath,
and the party is expected to hold its first formal meeting on
August 15.

