

Kenya captain Steve Tikolo said it was vital the Africans played
more major international matches if they were to progress as a
cricket nation after they went out of the World Cup with a seven-
wicket defeat against England.


Whoever won Saturday's clash at the Beausejour Cricket Ground
were assured of joining Group C winners New Zealand in the Super
Eight stage of the tournament.


But although the experienced Tikolo scored 76, after winning the
toss and batting, no other Kenyan made more than 17 as they were
bowled out for 177 in a match reduced by rain to 43 overs per
side.


"We need more games. I've been saying this since time
immemorial," a frustrated Tikolo told reporters. "You can't come
here without playing at this level consistently.


"If you look at our calendar now we have the Twenty20 World Cup
(in South Africa) in September. But between now and September
there's nothing for us. You can't compete like that."


Tikolo said the Test nations had to make room in their own
schedules, drawn up in response to the International Cricket
Council's 10-year plan if the likes of Kenya were to improve
their standards.


"I think our board has been talking to the ICC but the excuse we
always get is that the Test countries are busy with their 10-year
calendar. But if you want the other countries to come up you need
to give them more games."


Tikolo, asked if he would play in a fifth World Cup in 2011 when
the tournament will be staged in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh,
said: "That's a tough one. We'll see how my body goes.


"But I still want to play for Kenya for the next few years and
see this team grow into a good unit."


And he insisted he took little personal satisfaction from his
innings against England, his 20th fifty in 94 matches at this
level.


"I would have been happy if the team had done well. I'm looking
at the team goal and that's more important than personal
landmarks."


Reflecting on Saturday's match, Tikolo - whose team beat Canada
by seven wickets and lost to New Zealand by 148 runs - said: "I
thought the guys played well given we had a relatively young team
but looking at game we didn't get the partnerships going and that
was the key. 177 on this wicket wasn't enough."


Many observers were surprised by the 35-year-old's decision to
bat first on a ground where rain may well have freshened up the
pitch.


"I thought the wicket looked fairly good for batting. The
decision to bat was valid, we just lost wickets at regular
intervals," Tikolo explained.


Both Kenya and England suffered convincing defeats against New
Zealand.


But Tikolo said England could make an impact during the Super
Eights.


"They are a professional unit and anything is possible in the
one-day game. We saw them do well in Australia so they are
capable."

