

New York police mounted a massive operation ahead of the 2004
Republican National Convention with undercover agents collecting
information on peace activists at home and abroad, The New York
Times reported on its website late Saturday.


Citing unspecified police records and interviews, the newspaper
said the New York City Police Department intelligence operation
started at least a year before the Republican gathering.


Undercover New York police officers attended meetings of
political groups across the United States, as well as in Canada
and Europe, posing as sympathizers or fellow activists, the
report said.


They made friends, shared meals, exchanged e-mail messages and
then filed daily reports with the department's intelligence
division, the paper noted.


Other investigators mined Internet sites and chat rooms.


According to The Times, these operations helped the police
identify a handful of groups and individuals who expressed
interest in creating disturbances during the convention.


But potential troublemakers were not the only ones to end up in
the files, the paper said.


In hundreds of reports stamped "NYPD Secret," the intelligence
division chronicled the views and plans of people who had no
apparent intention of breaking the law, the report said.


These included members of street theater companies, church groups
and anti-war organizations, as well as environmentalists and
people opposed to the death penalty, globalization and other
government policies, The Times said.


In at least some cases, intelligence on what appeared to be
lawful activity was shared with police departments in other
cities, the paper pointed out.


A police report on an organization of artists called Bands
Against Bush noted that the group was planning concerts on
October 11, 2003, in New York, Washington, Seattle, San Francisco
and Boston.


"Activists are showing a well-organized network made up of anti-
Bush sentiment; the mixing of music and political rhetoric
indicates sophisticated organizing skills with a specific
agenda," The Times quoted the police report as saying. "Police
departments in above listed areas have been contacted regarding
this event."


The operation was mounted in 2003 after NYPD won greater
authority from a federal judge to investigate political
organizations for criminal activity, the paper said.

