

Central bank governors from Iran to Saudi Arabia are to attend
Malaysia's first international Islamic finance forum this week as
the nation works to cement its future as an Islamic financial
hub.


The four-day Global Islamic Finance Forum starting Monday is
expected to attract about 800 regulatory authorities and industry
players.


Malaysia's central Bank Negara, the event organiser, said it aims
to highlight business opportunities as the nation ramps up
efforts to draw foreign money -- Muslim and Middle Eastern funds
in particular.


"The forum will provide an avenue for global investors, issuers
and financial industry players to discuss investment and business
opportunities in Asia," Bank Negara said in a statement.


Islamic finance fuses principles of sharia or Islamic law and
modern banking. Funds are banned from investing in companies
associated with tobacco, alcohol or gambling considered taboo by
Muslims.


Malaysia has been promoting itself as a centre for Islamic
finance but faces rivalry from neighbours Singapore and Brunei.


The mainly Muslim nation has 10 fully-fledged Islamic banks,
after establishing its first in 1983, while a series of
conventional banks also offer Islamic financial services.


Malaysia fast-tracked the liberalisation of its Islamic banking
sector three years ahead of schedule in 2004, encouraging
domestic financial institutions to set up Islamic banking units.


It also opened up the industry to foreign players. Licences have
been awarded to Kuwait Finance House, Saudi Arabia's Al Rajhi
Bank, and the Asian Finance Bank, owned by a consortium led by
Qatar Islamic Bank.


Meor Amri Meor Ayob, who rates Islamic financial instruments at
Rating Agency Malaysia, said the conference will promote Malaysia
to foreign players amid regional competition for the Muslim
dollar.


"This will showcase Malaysia as a country with the capability,
capacity and human resources to provide Islamic financial
services," Meor Amri told AFP.


Malaysia has the infrastructure and a vibrant capital market that
is "very conducive" for the growth of Islamic finance, he said.


"There is a lot of opportunities for Islamic banking" because the
industry in Malaysia is still young, Meor Amri said.


Bank Negara has said the forum will also tackle contemporary
issues relating to Islamic finance including regulatory
standards, which analysts say are crucial for development of the
sector in Malaysia.


Senior economist at Malaysia's Bank Islam, Azrul Azwar, said a
major topic likely to be discussed is differences in the
interpretation of compliance with sharia, which bans the earning
of interest.


Countries in the Middle East have a more strict interpretation of
sharia rules, compared to Southeast Asian nations, he said.


"I think this is one of the challenges that Malaysian regulators
should address. We should work towards higher convergence of
sharia interpretation," Azrul told AFP.


As part of the forum, the Islamic Financial Services Board -- an
international standard-setting body that regulates the Islamic
financial industry -- will hold its annual meeting as Malaysia
assumes the 2007 chairmanship of the board's council.


Bank Negara governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz will chair the high-level
meeting to be attended by 15 central bank governors or their
representatives, and the president of the Islamic Development
Bank, a Saudi Arabia-based institution set up to promote economic
development in Muslim countries.


Governors expected to attend include those from Bangladesh,
Egypt, Iran, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and the
United Arab Emirates.


Malaysia's Islamic banking assets amounted to 117.4 billion
ringgit (33.9 billion dollars) as of June 2006.


Total worldwide assets of Islamic financial institutions exceed
an estimated 250 billion dollars and are growing 15 percent
annually, according to the International Monetary Fund.

