

European Union leaders were set to endorse Sunday a declaration
aimed at helping the EU past the impasse over its constitution,
as the bloc marks the 50th anniversary of its founding treaty in
Berlin.


In the political centrepiece of a weekend of celebrations around
the EU, German Chancellor Angela Merkel will present a "Berlin
Declaration" that praises Europe's achievements and commits the
leaders to confront future challenges.


Merkel, along with the heads of the European Parliament and
commission, will sign the text at 10:30 am (0830 GMT) in the name
of the 27 EU countries, after a night of festivities across the
continent.


Written in the name of "We, the citizens of the European
Union...," the two-page text outlines Europe's successes, from
bringing peace and stability, to the introduction of the euro and
border-free travel.


It lists common ideals, and warns of the need to confront
challenges ranging from global warming to fighting terrorism, all
with the aim of restoring confidence in the EU project among its
half a billion citizens.


After it is signed -- weather permitting -- heads of state and
government from the 27 EU countries will pose for a family
photograph at the Brandenburg Gate in a symbol of unity near
where the Berlin Wall once divided Europe.


The leaders will then hold a working lunch focused on the themes
of Europe and the future, and Europe in the world, while veteran
British singer Joe Cocker will top the bill at a concert in front
of the gate.


The declaration and working session are expected to mark an end
to the period of "mourning and reflection," in the word's of
Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi, over the EU's moribund
constitution.


In the text, the member nations note that they "are united in our
aim of placing the European Union on a renewed common basis
before the European Parliament elections in 2009."


Merkel said Saturday the time had come to jump-start stalled
efforts to repair the bloc's creaking institutions.


"We're approaching the issue with optimism without overburdening
anyone. We take seriously the atmosphere in the various countries
and we take seriously the views of people in the various
countries," she told reporters.


Britain, the Czech Republic and Poland all expressed doubts about
the 2009 date, when the Czech's take up the EU's rotating
presidency, and the timing is likely to surface again on Sunday's
lunch menu.


Germany, which holds the presidency until the end of June, has
been tasked with drawing up a roadmap on how to end the stalemate
caused when French and Dutch voters rejected the constitutional
treaty in referendums two years ago.


But German officials have said the best "window of opportunity"
to revive debate will come after the French elections in May, and
that including any mention of the constitution now could
undermine progress.


On a more personal note, Merkel is expected to use the dinner to
say "adieu" to French President Jacques Chirac, in what is his
last EU summit meeting.


The "Berlin Declaration" is the political highlight of a weekend
of concerts, exhibitions and night-clubbing from Rome to Brussels
to Berlin.

