

China's red-hot stock markets soared to record highs this week as
investors ignored concerns of a speculative bubble that could pop
at any time amid fresh efforts to cool share prices.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed Friday at 3,074.29
points, rising 4.91 percent in a week when Chinese regulators
clamped down with new restrictions on firms investing share sale
proceeds and an interest rate hike.


The regulatory actions were part of recent moves aimed at cooling
a stock fever that has driven prices ever higher despite the
government's repeated attempts to temper the enthusiasm.


The speculative binge has driven equity prices up by more than
150 percent over the last 15 months, with the gains in turn
enticing more people, many of them with relatively limited means,
to try their luck in stocks.


That exuberance has prompted officials to repeatedly warn that a
major bubble has formed and that investors, especially
inexperienced retail punters, stand to lose everything if the
markets crash.


But investors have continued to sink in fresh funds so as not to
miss out on the latest upturn only three weeks after a nine-
percent slump in Shanghai sparked turmoil on global exchanges.


"The market is still in an upwards trend, being driven by
capital," said Zhang Qi, an analyst with Haitong Securities based
in Shanghai, who estimated that 100,000 new trading accounts were
opened last week.


Setting aside any residual nervousness over the biggest single-
day fall in 10 years on February 27, investors shrugged off the
central bank's decision to raise interest rates a week ago.


The central bank's hike in key rates -- its third in a year --
was the latest in a long campaign to slow the runaway growth in
the Chinese economy, which last year expanded 10.7 percent.


The decision by the People's Bank of China came after a slew of
economic data showed inflation on the rise, exports bounding
ahead and another boom in bank lending.


In most stock markets a rate rise would have helped temper
investment as it raises companies' borrowing costs, in turn
impacting their profits.


Analysts partly attributed investors' defiance of economic logic
to already built-in expectations that the central bank would hike
rates.


But they also said the 27-basis point rise on one-year deposits
to 2.79 percent and one-year lending to 6.39 percent would not be
effective.


"A 27-basis point move is far too small to impact the market,"
said Shen Jun, an analyst at Shangzhenglian Consulting in
Shanghai, adding that most investors had dismissed the
possibility of another short-term move.


The rate increase has had the added effect of increasing the pace
of the yuan's appreciation.


"The pressure for yuan appreciation will exist for a long time so
there is little space for China to use interest rates as a tool,"
Northeast Securities said in a note to clients.


Investor expectations that the yuan will strengthen against the
dollar renews the flow of speculative funds betting on the
currency's appreciation, which in turn end up in the stock
market.


"Hot money is the main power in the market now," said Shen.


"The risks are accumulating at the same time, but as long as
liquidity is excessive, and the expectation toward the yuan
appreciation is high, the power of the hot money will overlap the
concern of future risks," said Shen.


The yuan ended the week at 7.7273 against the dollar from a close
of 7.7330 a week earlier.

