

Hong Kong's China-backed leader Donald Tsang was headed for
another term in office on Sunday as the handful of city elites
allowed to vote were casting their ballots in a brief election.


The 800 members of Hong Kong's election committee are the only
people in this territory of nearly seven million people allowed
to vote for chief executive, and most will support Tsang, China's
chosen man.


But for the first time since Britain handed Hong Kong back to
China in 1997, the race for leader is being contested -- and the
challenger, Alan Leong, hopes his presence will help nudge Hong
Kong down the road to full democracy.


The 62-year-old Tsang, a career civil servant rarely seen in
public without his trademark bow tie, said he had the backing of
641 committee members.


His reappointment was expected to be announced soon after the
two-hour vote, which was being held in a convention centre on the
edge of the city near Hong Kong international airport. Reporters
were not allowed into the polling area.


"I am a serious, responsible, conscientious and even a stiff
man," Tsang said in the last of his public rallies Friday night.
"But I can promise you that I will do this job well."


Hong Kong, one of the world's main hubs of international finance,
has been facing growing competition from cities in mainland China
and grappling with a serious pollution problem that has made it
less attractive to business leaders.


Governed by the rule of law and driven by the freest of free
markets, Hong Kong has unique status in China -- a policy former
Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping described as "one country, two
systems" when the 1997 handover took place.


But the universal suffrage envisioned in the Basic Law that was
written for post-handover Hong Kong has not come to pass, and
only some citizens are allowed to vote for some members of the
election committee.


Challenger Leong, a 49-year-old, Cambridge-educated lawmaker and
barrister, forced his way into the race when more than 100 pro-
democracy supporters won seats on the committee. Leong said he
had the backing of 132 members.


Tsang was even compelled to hold two debates with Leong and
campaign harder to make his case to the people -- steps toward
democracy unthinkable in the Communist Party-ruled mainland.


"The open debates were unprecedented. This has changed Hong
Kong's political dynamism. This is something that Beijing
couldn't have imagined," said Allen Lee, a Chinese lawmaker
turned political commentator.


"The biggest contribution Alan Leong gave us was the debates. I
think Hong Kong people wouldn't accept an election that is not
competitive in future."


At his final rally with supporters on Saturday, the challenger
said he thought he had won people round to the idea of a
competitive vote.


"A lot of people said to me, 'You are definitely going to lose,
but that doesn't matter,'" he said.


Outspoken Hong Kong lawmakers Emily Lau and Leung Kwok-hung,
better known as "Long Hair", said they would continue to protest
over the leadership vote.


"What is the point of this meaningless, small-circle election
that gives the Hong Kong people no power to decide on its
leader?" asked Leung.


Tsang will win a five-year term in office. He became chief
executive after the resignation of Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's
first post-colonial leader, in 2005 and secured a mandate from
the election committee that year.


He had been expected to serve five years outright, but amid huge
debate and following a controversial intervention by Beijing, it
was decided he would simply serve out the rest of Tung's term.

