

Thousands of red and yellow umbrellas flew in the air as
Montenegrin forward Igor Burzanovic scored a penalty to help seal
victory against Hungary in what was their first international
appearance Saturday.


Burzanovic's decisive goal in the 2-1 friendly win capped a long-
awaited match for the tiny Adriatic republic, which proclaimed
independence from Serbia last June.


Since early morning, hundreds of people, mostly dressed in the
red and yellow colors of the national team, braved heavy rain and
strong winds to pour towards the main stadium in the capital of
Podgorica.


Montenegrin red flags with golden eagles covered every shop and
cafe window in the capital, while cars circled the town square
beeping their horns to the rhythm of the national team's hymn.


"Viva Montenegro" and "Forza Montenegro" were the only greetings
football fans, but also those not really interested in sport,
exchanged during the day.


Even two hours before the match was scheduled to start, more than
11,000 people had packed the stadium.


As kick-off approached hundreds of young supporters unwrapped a
huge white flag with Montenegrin insignia.


The sounds of the drummers and enthusiasm of the crown barely
abated even when Hungary's Tamas Priskin scored for the visitors
in the first minute.


"We will win, trust me, two goals in the second half," predicted
Novica Djurovic, a 25-year old student who travelled for two
hours from northern town Kolasin to see the game.


When Montenegro's captain Mirko Vucinic levelled the score from
the penalty spot, the noise from trumpets, drums and thousands of
fans roaring "Goal!" was almost unbearable.


"Red heat is unstoppable," shouted a group of teenagers, all
dressed in red and yellow, with their faces painted in the same
colours.


Montenegrin politicians and local celebrities joined in, with
Prime Minister Zeljko Sturanovic proudly accompanying UEFA chief
Michel Platini.


"This is an historic day for Montenegro, a new chapter in its
history," said Montenegrin coach Zoran Filipovic, a former
striker with Red Star Belgrade and Benfica.


To crown Montenegro's first appearance on the international
football scene, Red Star Belgrade forward Burzanovic scored
another penalty, with crowds erupting in more than two-minute
long shout "Goal!"


"Let them hear us in Heaven, Montenegro is unstoppable," chanted
the supporters.


The only ones worrying were Podgorica's bookies.


Just a week ago, most of those betting were favouring Hungary's
victory. On Wednesday, most of the bets reversed the scores,
favouring Montenegrin victory.


Fearing large losses, the bookies decided to close the books on
all bets favouring a Montenegro win on Friday.


"I will lose a lot, that is for sure. But who cares, the victory
is more important than the money," said one of the bookies after
the match.

