

India only have themselves to blame for their World Cup problems,
for they lacked courage and conviction to excel at the biggest
one-day stage.


They had batting superstars in Sachin Tendulkar, skipper Rahul
Dravid, Sourav Ganguly and Virender Sehwag, but took just one
match to realise that big names alone are not enough to win
important matches.


What mattered was performance but India could only under-perform
in big games against Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, with Dravid also
conceding his side did not deserve to be in the next round.


Coach Greg Chappell's "Vision 2007" promised more, but delivered
little.


It was in a shambles after his team's 69-run defeat against Sri
Lanka in the must-win match here on Friday which left them
needing a miracle win by Bermuda over Bangladesh on Sunday to
progress.


India could beat only Bermuda in the four-team group in what was
their worst Cup performance since the 1979 edition in England.
They were the champions in 1983, semi-finalists in 1987 and 1996,
and runners-up in 2003.


India looked flat and uninspiring in the field, although the
coach and the captain stressed it was not true because the team
had been working really hard for the tournament.


"I think there is a need for a serious introspection, but I don't
think it should start today," Chappell said after his team's
defeat against Sri Lanka.


India were let down by what was considered their main strength --
batting. They could not even cross the 200-mark against
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka on pitches which offered bounce and
movement only early in the innings.


Opening an innings remained a big headache, with Ganguly having
two different partners against Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in Robin
Uthappa and Virender Sehwag. On both the occasions, India failed
to make a solid start.


With Tendulkar making just seven (against Bangladesh) and a duck
(against Sri Lanka), the pressure was soon on the middle-order
batsmen who failed to show the resilience to rise to the
occasion.


India's seamers and spinners failed to defend a total of 191
against Bangladesh, but looked impressive in patches against Sri
Lanka which was simply not good enough. The fielding also left a
lot to be desired.


India were aware they just could not afford to have an off-day in
group matches as each side played three games, with the top two
advancing to the next round.


Unfortunately for them, it came on the very first day.


"The lead-up to the tournament was pretty good. The confidence
was quite high and the boys were playing good cricket. We had a
bad game against Bangladesh where we did not really bat well
upfront," said Dravid.


"That put pressure on us. Again (against Sri Lanka), we did not
play well enough. The way the tournament is structured you have
one banana skin game and you can be out of the tournament quite
quickly."


Millions of fans back home had been expecting their team to
complete just a formality in group matches as Sri Lanka were the
only team which could have seriously tested Dravid's side.


They were in for a shock when the star-studded Indian team went
down to Bangladesh after putting in one of their most dismal
performances in the tournament history.


India had three batsmen -- Tendulkar, Ganguly and Dravid -- with
more than 10,000 runs each. The entire Bangladeshi side had fewer
runs than the Indian trio, but raised their performance when it
mattered most.


The big guns did not boom, with Tendulkar contributing seven and
Dravid 14. Only Ganguly (66) and Yuvraj Singh (47) managed to
score more than 20 in the match which put India under tremendous
pressure.


Bangladeshi teenagers Tamim Iqbal, Mushfiqur Rahim and Saqibul
Hasan upstaged the Indian stars with impressive half-centuries to
help their team pull off an upset five-wicket victory.


Just one nightmarish day at the office pushed India on the brink
of elimination and pressure became the name of the game as they
had no option but to beat in- form Sri Lanka in their final
match.


And it was expecting too much of a team playing much below their
potential.

