

Swiss superstar Roger Federer launched a title defence - and
perhaps another winning streak - with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over US
wild card Sam Querrey Saturday at the rain-soaked Sony Ericsson
Open.


World No. 1 Federer was playing for the first time since his
41-match winning streak was snapped by Argentina's Guillermo
Canas on March 11 at the ATP Masters Series tournament at Indian
Wells, California.


With another Masters Series title on the line at this 6.9
million-dollar men's and women's hardcourt tournament, Federer
was pleased just to get past the first hurdle.


He said rainy weather had made it hard to stick to his normal
tournament routine as he waited for his opening match, which came
four days into the event.


"I'm just happy I came through, because I didn't know what to
expect tonight," Federer said. "I didn't know my opponent. I've
known since a long time when I'm going to play, So (there were)
kind of a bit of expectations, too, from the fans and everybody.
So I'm happy I'm through, and I think I played OK, actually."


Federer could meet Canas again in the round of 16. The
Argentinian defeated 19th-seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain 6-7
(5/7), 6-3, 7-5.


Women's top seed Maria Sharapova of Russia, playing her first
match in 11 days, dispatched Yung-Jan Chan of Taiwan 6-3, 6-2 to
set up a third-round clash with unseeded Venus Williams, a 6-3,
6-3 winner over Russian Maria Kirilenko.


On a day where rain suspended play for a total of more than six
hours, Sharapova cruised through her first match since losing to
Vera Zvonareva in a fourth-round matchup in Indian Wells.


"It was a little bit up and down," Sharapova said of her game. "I
felt like I was in control. I was happy that with the break
points she had, I was able to come up with a good defensive play.


"Overall, it's the first match. It's never completely there,"
Sharapova added. "But I'm sure it will get better."


Venus Williams had won the first set from Kirilenko and dropped a
game in the second when rain stopped play for several hours.


The delay meant her sister, 13th-seeded Australian Open champion
Serena, took the court hours later than scheduled, but she took
the wait in stride and posted a 6-3, 6-3 victory over Russian
Anastasia Rodionova.


Serena said the long wait wasn't a problem.


"I've played night matches before," she said. "It was just a long
rain delay. But it didn't really bother me too much.


"I just sat down, and I got on the computer, and I sat down, and
I ate something, and I sat down. That was about it."


When she did finally get on court, she said the weather
conditions were "weird".


"It was windy, then it wasn't windy, and then it was, like, side
wind. Then at some points there wasn't any wind at all. And it
was very humid. So it was very strange."


However, she was glad to be back in action for the first time
since her unexpected Australian Open triumph.


"It feels good," she said. "I'm so ready. I've been training
every day - and I'm tired of it. The easiest part of tennis is
playing the tournaments for me."


Defending women's champion and third seed Svetlana Kuznetsova of
Russia reached the third round with a 7-6 (7/4), 6-7 (5/7), 6-3
victory over Kateryna Bondarenko of Ukraine.


A year ago, Kuznetsova beat Sharapova, 6-4, 6-3, in the final
here for her biggest victory since her 2004 US Open triumph.


Elsewhere in the women's draw, fifth-seeded Martina Hingis of
Switzerland advanced with a 6-3, 6-2 triumph over Czech Iveta
Benesova.


Eighth-seeded Nicole Vaidisova of Russia also advanced, downing
Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands 4-6, 7-5, 6-2.


On the men's side, seventh-seeded Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia beat
Filippo Volandri of Italy 6-3, 6-2, while lucky loser Alejandro
Falla of Colombia surprised German ninth seed Tommy Haas 6-4,
6-4.

