

Top seed Maria Sharapova made a triumphant start at the WTA and
ATP Masters Series hardcourt event here Saturday by defeating
Taiwan's Yung-Jan Chan 6-3, 6-2 in a second-round match.


The Russian star, who received a first-round bye, was last year's
runner-up at this 6.9 milion-dollar event, losing to compatriot
Svetlana Kuznetsova 6-4, 6-3 in the final.


Sharapova, who had not played since a fourth-round loss to Vera
Zvonareva at Indian Wells 11 days earlier, might have to defeat
eighth-seeded compatriot Nicole Vaidisova and US 13th seed Serena
Williams to reach the semi-finals.


Williams blasted Sharapova in January's Australian Open women's
final.


"It was a little bit up and down," Sharapova said of her game in
the windy weather that was followed later by lengthy rain delays.


"I felt like I was in control. I was happy that with the break
points she had, I was able to come up with a good defensive play.


"Overall, it's the first match. It's never completely there,"
Sharapova added. "But I'm sure it will get better."


In the third round, Sharapova will play either American Venus
Williams or Russian Maria Kirilenko. Kirilenko is seeded 29th
here, while Williams, a three- time Wimbledon and two-time US
Open champion, is unseeded as she plays just her second
tournament of the year.


Venus had won the first set 6-3 when the match was halted by
rain.


Serena Williams was due to start her campaign with a second-round
clash against Anastasia Rodionova.


And Swiss world number one and men's top seed Roger Federer was
set to begin his title defense Saturday night against US wild
card Sam Querrey with hopes of doing better than his first-match
exit from Indian Wells.


The match will be the first for Federer since his 41-match
winning streak was snapped by Guillermo Canas of Argentina on
March 11 at Indian Wells.


Canas, a qualifier here, could face Federer again in the round of
16.


Among those who beat the rain early Saturday were men's seventh
seed Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia, who beat Filippo Volandri of Italy
6-3, 6-2, and women's fifth seed Martina Hingis of Switzerland,
who downed Czec Iveta Benesova 6-3, 6-2.

