

The US Treasury's top official on financial crime was expected in
China Sunday to try to solve a banking dispute that has stalled
negotiations on North Korea's nuclear disarmament.


Daniel Glaser, also Washington's point man on terrorist finance,
is part of efforts to keep the six-nation nuclear talks on track,
after an impasse over frozen North Korean led Pyongyang to break
off negotiations last week.


"The policy and diplomatic issues have been solved -- this is now
down to implementation," Glaser said in a statement issued by the
Treasury.


That means finding a bank willing to receive 25 million dollars
of North Korean funds frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia.


The United States has cleared the way for the release of the
money but the designated recipient, state-owned Bank of China,
has allegedly refused to accept the money for fear the
transaction may hurt its credit rating.


"Although the Bank of China will be able to undertake this
transaction, we need to consult with them," Chinese chief
negotiator Wu Dawei said after last week's talks went into
recess.


"The bank has its own concerns, and the government needs to help
them in addressing these concerns."


Glaser said that authorities in Macau and Beijing had made clear
that they wanted to ensure implementation of the agreement was
"consistent with their own laws and with their international
obligations."


"We are bringing Treasury expertise to help the Macanese and
Chinese wade through some of these implementation issues," he
said.


The latest round of six-party disarmament talks -- involving the
two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- ended
abruptly in Beijing on Thursday after Pyongyang refused to
negotiate until it received the cash.


In late 2005, the United States effectively blacklisted Banco
Delta Asia on suspicion it was handling the proceeds of North
Korean counterfeiting and money- laundering, prompting Macau to
freeze the North's accounts there.


Envoys to the six-party talks came together last Monday for their
first meeting since a February 13 accord that set a timetable for
the North to begin disarming.


The talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the North's
nuclear weapons ambitions. But they have been plagued by
disputes, amid which Pyongyang shocked the world by conducting
its first atomic test in October.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
insisted Friday the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill said.

