

The dream of home ownership could turn into a living nightmare
for millions of Americans in the next couple of years as home
foreclosures are expected to skyrocket.


Alarmed lawmakers, such as Republican Senator Richard Shelby of
Alabama, say the recent spike in home repossessions is just "the
tip of the iceberg."


The fizz came out of the US housing boom last year after several
years of stellar growth, fueled in part by a speculative binge,
but also by sales of "exotic mortgages" including adjustable rate
mortgages (ARMs).


Consumer advocates say such loans are costing many working class
families an "ARM and a leg," and that buyers were often unaware
ARMs can start out with a low "teaser" interest rate that fast
kicks into a much higher rate.


Pressure is mounting on Congress to rein in unscrupulous lenders.


"Predatory practices need to end immediately and solutions must
be designed to help the millions of distressed Americans who have
mortgages they cannot afford," said Kirsten Keefe, a consumer
lawyer and the executive director of Americans for Fairness in
Lending.


Democratic presidential contender Senator Chris Dodd says the
emerging "crisis" could see over two million Americans lose their
homes to foreclosure in the next few years. Such grim predictions
are backed by some industry analysts.


Over 500,000 mortgages, or 1.19 percent of all loans, were in
foreclosure at the end of the fourth quarter 2006, according to
the Mortgage Bankers Association which reported over 43 million
loans in total outstanding at the end of last year.


A main focus has been "subprime" loans, or mortgages marketed to
people with poor credit histories, now seeing the worst problems.


Jennie Haliburton, a 77-year-old widow, told a congressional
hearing chaired by Dodd on Thursday that she took out an ARM loan
with Countrywide Financial Corporation, one of the US' biggest
mortgage lenders, without realizing her monthly repayments would
leap from an initial 700 dollars to 1,100 dollars.


Federal banking regulators have also told Congress they are
worried about rising foreclosures, especially in the subprime
sector.


Mortgage executives promised Congress they would tighten up their
standards, but cautioned against tighter regulation.


Top Federal Reserve officials have tried to soothe fears about
the housing downturn and the National Association of Realtors
(NAR) reported a surprise 3.9 percent rise in February existing
home sales Friday.


But, as the sum of delinquent mortgage loans has swelled to
around 150 billion dollars' worth, some like Democratic senator
Robert Menendez believe the country could be on the cusp of a
foreclosure "tsunami."


Pessimists seeking evidence of a gathering storm do not have to
look far.


Several mortgage lenders, who mainly sold subprime loans,
including People's Choice Home Loan, Inc., Ownit Mortgage
Solutions Inc., and ResMae Mortgage Corp, have filed for
bankruptcy in recent months.


British banking giant HSBC has set aside over 10 billion dollars
to guard against sour home loans, and H&R Block Inc announced
over 15 million dollars in mortgage-related losses earlier this
month.


Aside from rising consumer complaints, such as those voiced by
Keefe and Haliburton, concern is also increasing that major Wall
Street banks could see their profits dented by the mortgage
market.


A spokeswoman for Dodd said the senator is mulling whether to
back legislation to improve lending standards and media reports
suggest House lawmakers are moving to author a bill to check
industry excesses.


Speculators "flipped" houses to make a quick profit during the
boom, but the NAR report showed prices in some regions have
fallen.


As a result, some speculators could owe more to a mortgage firm
than they might be able to sell their properties for.


The wealthy are also feeling the squeeze and being forced to
offer sales "carrots," such as a new Porsche, golf membership or
free plasma televisions in a bid to sell million dollar mansions.


Some analysts argue, however, that it is not all doom and gloom.


Standard mortgage rates have fallen to near historic lows,
according to the NAR which said rates on a 30-year conventional
fixed rate mortgage had dropped to 6.16 percent in the last week,
down from an average of 6.29 percent in February.

