

As Europe's leaders celebrated the European Union's 50th birthday
with some of the finest ingredients the continent can offer here
on Saturday, ordinary Europeans were sampling simpler fare.


The wide avenue leading up to the German capital's best-known
monument, the Brandenburg Gate, has been turned into a multi-
national street restaurant this weekend, designed to satisfy the
most jaded of palates.


All 27 EU countries are represented at the food stalls, serving
everything from crisp Belgian waffles to Greek kebabs and a
cholesterol-heavy Austrian speciality of smoked sausage coated in
cheese which would surely have most EU health ministers up in
arms.


"We've sold 150 kebabs and we've only been open a couple of
hours," said Ludwig Ausker, a German running the Greek stall.


"We've not sold much ouzo yet, but the day is young," he said of
the aniseed drink beloved by Greeks.


Over at the Spanish stall, Karin Klausnitz, 55, from Berlin, had
polished off a plate of paella, which she said was a bargain at
4.50 euros (six dollars).


"I can feel the benefits of European integration when I eat
this," she said. "Like a lot of Germans I got a taste for it on a
holiday in Spain and now I can go there more often on cheap
flights."


She was less impressed at rumours that the 27 EU leaders were
washing down their gala dinner on Saturday with one of Germany's
finest red wines, a heavy-hitting pinot noir which can cost
hundreds of euros a bottle for the best vintages.


"That is so typical of all the European leaders," Karin said.
"They are busy making sure they are alright and lining their
pockets."


Dominique Tardeck, 26, was enjoying a glass of sangria at the
Spanish stand. She said she was looking forward to tucking into
the food from the French stall, but admitted reluctantly she
would not be sampling any Italian specialities.


"I try to be a good European, but I have to admit since Italy
knocked us Germans out of the World Cup last year I just can't
bring myself to eat pizza and pasta!"


As their citizens stood at tables to eat their food, German
President Horst Koehler was hosting a gala dinner for the leaders
in a sumptuous four-course feast at his official residence.


A starter of pickled trout was to be followed by creamed spinach
soup and a main course of ox filet braised in Burgundy wine, all
rounded off with an intriguing- sounding "semi-frozen" apple
dessert.


The celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the signing of the
Treaty of Rome reach a climax on Sunday when the EU releases a
"Berlin Declaration", praising the EU's past achievements -- like
bringing peace, prosperity and unity to much of the continent --
while setting out the major challenges for the future.

