

Four weeks from France's presidential election, here are the key
proposals of the top four candidates -- Nicolas Sarkozy of the
right-wing Union for a Popular Movement, Segolene Royal of the
Socialist Party, Francois Bayrou of the centrist Union for French
Democracy and Jean-Marie Le Pen of the far-right National Front.


-- JOBS AND WAGES --


All the candidates are under pressure to fight unemployment --
currently at 8.6 percent -- and boost low incomes.


Sarkozy's flagship measure is to scrap payroll tax and social
charges on overtime pay, to circumvent the 35-hour week. People
who turn down work could lose their unemployment benefits.


Royal proposes lifting the minimum monthly wage to 1,500 euros
(1,900 dollars). She would create 500,000 state-backed "stepping
stone" jobs for youths, seniors and long-term unemployed.


Both claim their measures would have a knock-on effect on job
creation by boosting consumer spending.


Bayrou's key proposal is to allow companies to create two new
jobs without paying social charges.


Le Pen plans to abolish the 35-hour workweek, and bring in a
state salary for stay-at-home mothers.


-- ECONOMY AND TAX --


Bayrou's byword is frugality: he wants a constitutional ban on
current expenditure budget deficits to tackle France's heavy debt
burden, equivalent to 64.6 percent of GDP.


Sarkozy would set a ceiling of 50 percent on personal taxation
and hopes in the long term to cut overall tax by four percentage
points of GDP. He would replace only one in two retirees from the
civil service -- whose five million employees account for almost
half the state budget.


Royal would cancel tax breaks for the highest earners and tax
companies that pay share dividends instead of investing profits.
On state spending, her motto is "every euro spent must be a euro
well spent."


Le Pen wants to cut income tax by half to boost growth.


-- IMMIGRATION --


Sarkozy, Royal and Bayrou all rule out a blanket amnesty for
France's estimated 200,000 to 400,000 illegal immigrants and
pledge to boost development aid.


Sarkozy would create a ministry for immigration and national
identity to implement the skills-based selection for legal
migrants, tougher rules of entry for their families and
deportation for illegals. But he also wants to give foreigners
the vote in local elections.


Royal would create a multiple-entry visa for migrant workers and
restore the right -- scrapped under Sarkozy -- for illegals to
acquire French citizenship after 10 years.


Bayrou plans to bring in integration courses on the French
language and values, and crack down on people-trafficking and
employers who hire illegal immigrants.


Le Pen's anti-immigrant platform calls for welfare to be reserved
to French nationals and for migrants to lose the right to bring
their families to France.


-- THE SUBURBS --


Bayrou and Royal both promise major drives to reimplant public
services in the poor suburbs hit by the 2005 riots.


Royal, Sarkozy and Bayrou want to create a civic national service
for school- leavers, to replace the obligatory military service
abolished 10 years ago.


On crime, Royal would reintroduce community policing, introduce
military-style boot camps for young offenders and ban prison
sentences for minors -- which Sarkozy wants to extend.


Sarkozy, the son of a Hungarian immigrant father, is alone in
calling for US- style affirmative action to tackle discrimination
against ethnic minorities.


-- EUROPE --


Sarkozy wants a scaled-down mini-treaty, ratified by European
parliaments, to replace the draft European constitution rejected
by French voters in 2005.


Bayrou and Royal both want to call a new referendum after
amending the existing treaty: adding a stronger social component
in Royal's case, paring it down to a simpler version in Bayrou's.


Royal says the European Central Bank should broaden its focus to
boosting growth and jobs, and both she and Sarkozy say the bank
should do more to drive down the euro.


Le Pen wants to renegotiate the major European Union treaties and
return to a "Europe of nations."


-- INSTITUTIONS --


Both Royal and Bayrou call for the advent of a "Sixth Republic,"
overhauling government institutions to make them more accountable
to the public.


Bayrou would give the president more say in day-to-day affairs,
and make parliament more representative, while Royal would have
citizen's juries assess the work of elected officials from the
president down. Both would end the government's right to push
laws through parliament by decree.


Sarkozy wants to keep the current institutions, but make the
president more accountable to a stronger parliament, and limit
the number of ministers to 15.


-- ENVIRONMENT --


All the main candidates have pledged to put the environment at
the centre of their presidency.


Royal wants to boost the share of renewable energies and cut back
on nuclear power, phase out VAT on eco-friendly industries and
stop field trials of genetically-modified organisms.


Sarkozy wants to slash VAT on green products and services and
backs the creation of a world environment agency.


Bayrou promises to develop renewable energies and biofuels,
encourage lower national energy consumption, and tax polluters.


Both Sarkozy and Bayrou want to maintain nuclear power at its
current level.


-- GAY RIGHTS, EUTHANASIA --


Royal says she will legalise gay marriage and adoption. Both
Bayrou and Sarkozy are against, supporting the current system of
civil unions.


Royal -- whose party wants to legalise medical euthanasia -- has
called for a national debate on the question. Both Sarkozy and
Bayrou say the current law, which allows doctors to stop treating
terminally-ill patients, goes far enough.

