

The United States Saturday said new UN sanctions imposed on Iran
Saturday over its nuclear program were a global rebuke which
would leave Tehran even more internationally isolated.


"We are obviously very pleased by the strength of this
resolution. It is a significant international rebuke to Iran and
is a significant tightening of the international pressure on
Iran," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters.


He spoke after the UN Security Council Saturday unanimously
adopted the resolution -- its second in three months -- slapping
penalties on Iran to pressure it into suspending its nuclear
program, which some powers fear masks a bid to develop atomic
weapons.


The new resolution "is substantially stronger than the first and
we do believe it is going to leave Iran even more isolated than
it has been," Burns said.


"We believe the second resolution is a significant blow to the
Iranian government," he said.


The new resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


"The international community is united, it's time for Iran to
comply or potentially face harsher measures in the future," said
Gordon Johndroe, spokesman for the White House's National
Security Council.


He said the resolution sent a "strong message" to Iran's leaders:
"stop isolating your country and your people, suspend your
program and come to the table."


Burns warned that if Iran did not comply with the Security
Council conditions within 60 days, "a trigger mechanism will ask
the council to adopt further sanctions -- open the way for a
third resolution in the month of May."


He said the blocking of Iranian arms exports was a critical
component of the new sanctions.


It was "significant because Iran had been a major arms supplier
to (militant groups) Hezbollah and Hamas and has used these arms
supplies to stoke terrorism in the region," he said.


"We are particularly pleased with this and it was one of the
major US objectives in four weeks of negotiations," he said.


Burns also said that sanctions freezing the foreign assets of
Iran's state-owned Bank Sepah were also significant as the
Islamic republic's fourth largest bank "has been the conduit for
money from the Iranian government to subsidize and transfer money
to support the ballistic missile and WMD (weapons of mass
destruction) industries in Iran itself."


He said although a particular restriction on export credit to
Iran was "not a strong sanction," it "opens up the door for
further action."


"We have already seen Italy, France, Germany and Japan
significantly reduce their export credit to Iran over the past
four to five months," said Burns, who is scheduled to leave for
Brussels for talks, including on Iran with his European
counterparts.


European Union envoys will prod Iran to reconsider its refusal to
halt sensitive nuclear activities in defiance of the
international community, he said.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and other EU diplomats
"would be in touch with the Iranian government in the days and
weeks ahead to see if they might reconsider their obstinate
refusal to renegotiate," Burns said.


Burns said the door was still open for Iran to suspend its
nuclear work and return to talks with the international
community.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to help meet the country's energy needs. Uranium is the basic
material for both military and civilian nuclear programs.

