

Michael Vaughan looked back at the end of the World Cup group
stages and admitted he had a "week he didn't want to have".


But the one consolation for the England captain was that his team
had advanced beyond the first phase of the World Cup for the
first time since 1996.


There are no survivors in the current England squad from the one
beaten by Sri Lanka 11 years ago in the quarter-finals but a
seven-wicket win against Kenya here Saturday saw Vaughan's men
into the Super Eights in the Caribbean.


It was a win achieved against an extraordinary backdrop of off-
field drama.


First England had to cope with the fall-out that saw Andrew
Flintoff stripped of the vice-captaincy and dropped from the team
that beat Canada last Sunday.


Then came the news that Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer had been
murdered.


The former England batsman, who'd been in charge of county side
Warwickshire, was a familiar figure to many current England
players.


However, England - with Flintoff back in the side - bowled out
Kenya for a modest 177 in a match reduced by rain to 43 overs per
side and then knocked off the 178 they needed to win with 10
overs left.


Dublin-born Ed Joyce top-scored with 75 to set up a Super Eight
opener against Ireland, the team he helped reach this World Cup
before qualifying for England, in Guyana on Friday.


"It's been a week as an England captain you don't want to have,
"said Vaughan. "It's been tough for everyone."


James Anderson led England's attack with two for 27 but fellow
Lancashire quick Flintoff wasn't far behind with two for 35.


And Vaughan said he was happy to have Flintoff, one of England's
standout match- winners along with batsman Kevin Pietersen, who
made 56 not out against Kenya, back concentrating on cricket.


"When you have your premier all-rounder back in your team we look
a better team for that. He'll be happy with the way he bowled."


Joyce, who scored 66 in the 51-run win over Canada after a nought
against New Zealand, made his England debut against Ireland in
Belfast in June.


And he said that experience would help him come Friday.


"It's obviously a bit of a strange one, being an Irishman," the
left-hander admitted.


"My first game for England was against Ireland so hopefully I've
got that one out of the way. I'm just pretty happy with the way
I'm playing at the moment."


The defeat by New Zealand means it is the Black Caps and not
England who carry two points through to the Super Eights.


England have never won the World Cup although they have been the
losing finalists three times - in 1979, 1987 and 1992.


Vaughan, asked about England's chances at this World Cup,
replied: "We are just looking at playing some good cricket over
the next few weeks, trying to surprise a few teams and seeing how
far we can go."


England undoubtedly caused a surprise by beating world champions
Australia 2-0 in their own backyard in the final of last month's
triangular series.


However, Vaughan insisted Ireland - who knocked Pakistan out of
the World Cup with a three wicket win the day before Woolmer's
death - would not be under- estimated.


"They deserve to be there. They've won a big game and look a
professional, well- organised unit."


But Joyce said Ireland could struggle if England started
strongly.


"With all the minnow sides their biggest strength is that if they
get on top of you they can create a lot of pressure. But if you
get on top of them, they haven't got much to come back with."

