

Damascus is no world business hub, but housing prices are now
rivalling those in European capitals, putting a squeeze on a
society where salaries average only 200 dollars, observers say.


Part of the problem arises from the gradual opening up of Syria's
long-time state-controlled economy, with the arrival of more
foreign companies, particularly banks, and the demand for world-
class housing their executives bring with them.


However, those expatriates account for only a small portion of
the increased demand for housing, experts say. Even more
significant is the number of Lebanese who fled to Syria during
last summer's war with Israel and the massive influx of refugees
from Iraq.


Since the 2003 war to unseat Saddam Hussein, and as civil strife
has followed in the aftermath, more than a million Iraqis have
poured into Syria, according to UN figures. That is no small
amount in a country whose population is just under 19 million.


In some of the more sought after districts of the Syrian capital,
such as Malki or Mazzeh, housing prices are "nearly the same" as
in Paris or London, said one foreign diplomat.


In Malki, for example, estate agent Abu Ayman said a 200 square
metre (2,150 square foot) apartment with a view that was selling
for 75 million Syrian pounds (1.5 million dollars, 1.1 million
euros) only two months ago was now going for 90 million pounds, a
20 percent hike.


At the same time, estate agencies say rental prices in the
capital are now 40 percent higher than they were two years ago.


And the prices for housing in the suburbs, even though properties
are not nearly as nice, have also skyrocketed.


A man who gives his name only as Louai, who works for an
international agency in Damascus, said he doubled the two million
pounds he paid for his apartment in the suburb of Jaramana two
years ago.


Louai blames the higher prices on the Iraqi refugees, many of
whom have chosen to live in Jaramana.


"Three years ago," he said, "furnished apartments were renting
for between 6,000 and 10,000 pounds. Now they are starting at
15,000."


And further out, in such nearby towns as Yaafur, Sabbura and Khan
al-Snih, there is a major construction boom underway, with the
well-off seeking a bit more fresh air and building luxury villas.


Estate agent Abu Ayman disagreed with Louai, saying the Iraqis
are not really the problem. Moreover, he said demand for housing
is only one side of the equation in rising prices, the other
being inadequate supply.


Abu Ayman points to more basic problems, such as the poor
structure of the real estate market and to the fact that
construction costs are soaring. He said the price for cement had
tripled to 9,000 Syrian pounds a tonne in just a year.


This has been attributed to wholesalers buying from the country's
three cement producers and then selling at inflated prices.


It is the government's job to monitor cement sales. Prime
Minister Mohammed Naji Otri told the cabinet on Tuesday that the
ministries of economy and industry should "take rapid steps to
assure (supplies of) cement, either through increased production
or imports."


Economist Samir Seifan points to more problems. One is the fact
that the legal caps that had been put on rental prices were
removed in 2001.


Another is the lack of a modern banking system and the general
hesitation of people with capital to invest it in anything
productive. Banks are short of capital and are simply not in a
position to finance major projects.


As for individuals with capital, Seifan said "people are
disinclined to risk their money in anything other than land."


The problem is further compounded by the fact that 90 percent of
housing is generated by the private sector. And it is almost
impossible for the most needy, such as young people, to gain
access to what state-subsidised housing there is because of
corruption and speculation.

