

The Auckland Blues were reinstalled as Super 14 leaders at the
weekend after the ACT Brumbies defied the odds and inflicted the
first defeat of the year on the Coastal Sharks.


The shock 21-10 result, the Brumbies' first ever away win against
the Sharks, allowed the Blues to open up a three-point lead over
the Natal-based side, with the Canterbury Crusaders moving up to
third, three more points back.


The Crusaders benefitted most from the injection of elite All
Blacks into the second half of the competition, while the
Wellington Hurricanes failed to capitalise on their
reinforcements.


But it was the the Brumbies from neighbouring Australia who
provided the greatest service for the New Zealand franchises, as
their forwards nullified the potent rolling maul and pick-and-
drive of the Sharks.


"We came up with what we needed to do to beat them and
fortunately we were able to act it out," said elated Brumbies
coach Laurie Fisher.


Led by a charging Jone Tawake and Stephen Hoiles, the men from
Canberra dominated the first half to lead 18-0 at the turn-
around.


The Sharks, who salvaged some respectability with a late
converted try, now undergo an arduous four-match Australasian
tour starting next week against the fifth-placed Western Force
followed two weeks later by a clash with the Blues.


Both the Sharks and Blues have six wins from seven matches, but
the more enterprising Blues also have four bonus points to one
for the Sharks.


On Friday, the Blues thumped the New South Wales Waratahs 34-6,
with their clever switches of play and running on to the ball
from depth allowing them to claim a four-try bonus point.


Against the Waratahs, who are having an atrocious season, the
Blues had the luxury of not needing the services of their four
returning All Blacks, with only hooker Keven Mealamu getting a
20-minute cameo on the field.


The Crusaders, however, used all six available All Blacks and
immediately shifted into a higher gear as they scored four tries
in putting away the Western Stormers 36-11.


Although Richie McCaw and his cohorts showed some signs of
rustiness, their class was evident as the competition's most
successful side displayed their trademark talents of capitalising
on turnover ball and creating space.


McCaw came out ahead of Schalk Burger in the murky world of the
breakdown, Chris Jack was in charge in the lineouts and flyhalf
Daniel Carter stamped his mark by setting up two tries and
kicking 16 points.


However, the Hurricanes failed to capitalise on the return of
their six All Blacks, getting mauled by the Lions 30-7 at
Johannesburg.


It was an outstanding performance from the Andre Pretorius-led
Lions, who were expected to struggle after the long flight home
from New Zealand where they suffered back-to-back defeats.


Instead, their young pack dominated their more seasoned opponents
up front, forcing errors and thriving on turnover ball.


The Northern Bulls remained in the top four, level with the
Crusaders on 22 points, notching their first-ever win in the
Otago Highlanders' notorious House of Pain.


Although the South Africans only managed to score one try, their
territorial advantage allowed flyhalf Derick Hougaard the range
to land five penalties in their 22-13 victory.


A penalty goal three minutes from full-time by flyhalf Stephen
Donald gave Waikato Chiefs a 21-19 victory over the bottom-placed
Queensland Reds in a fluctuating match where the lead changed
three times in the second half.


The Western Force and the Central Cheetahs had the weekend off.

