

With four weeks ahead of election day France's presidential
campaign began in earnest this weekend, with polls showing the
race is wide open for the two front-runners, right-winger Nicolas
Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal.


Latest indications suggest that the challenge from the "third
man" in the election -- Francois Bayrou of the centrist Union for
French Democracy (UDF) -- may have peaked, as he has fallen back
in opinion polls to around 18 percent of the multi-candidate
first round vote.


However in an absorbing contest that has already seen sharp
swings in voting intentions, all three leading candidates -- as
well as far-right leader Jean- Marie Le Pen -- are fighting hard
to secure a place in the decisive second round.


In two ballots on Sundays April 22 and May 6, France is electing
a successor to Jacques Chirac, 74, who has been in office since
1995 and two weeks ago announced that he will not run for a third
term.


The vote is seen as one of the most exciting and important in
recent French history, marking the transfer of the baton to a new
generation of leaders and defining the country's response to
issues of globalisation and national identity.


Sarkozy, 52, the hyperactive head of the ruling Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP), has campaigned for a "rupture" -- or
clean break -- from the policies of past governments, calling for
financial incentives to encourage work, curbs on union powers and
a new policy of selective immigration.


On Monday he steps down from the post of interior minister, which
he has held for four of the last five years. During this time he
claims to have successfully brought down crime, but he was also
in charge during the 2005 riots and he is openly hated in the
high-immigration suburbs.


Royal, 53, was an little-known former junior minister before she
shot to fame last year in a brilliant promotional campaign. Using
an Internet forum and nationwide "participative debates," she
convinced many that she is a new kind of politician, with a
listening ear and disdain for party taboos.


In her 100-point "presidential pact" Royal marked herself clearly
on the left with pledges to create half a million state-backed
jobs, increase the minimum wage and "consolidate" the 35-hour
week. If elected she would be France's first woman president.


Bayrou, 55, has surged in the opinion polls in recent weeks as
Royal appeared to stumble. A former Latin teacher who raises
horses at his home in the Pyrenees, he positions himself as an
outsider representing the broad centre of the electorate that is
tired of the left-right divide.


Polls show that Bayrou would win the election if he made it
through to round two, but the chances of that receded last week
as his first round rating fell. Analysts said the public was
looking more critically at his programme and at his lack of
support in parliament, where the UDF has just 30 deputies.


According to one survey on Friday, Royal has pulled back ahead of
Bayrou and is now even on level pegging with Sarkozy. The CSA
poll for Le Parisien newspaper put Royal and Sarkozy both on 50
percent in the decisive second round -- the socialist's best
score since January.


Uniting the three front-runners is the calculation that to win a
candidate must pose as opponent of France's status-quo. All
accept the premise that the country is in crisis thanks to an
underperforming economy and angst over a world increasingly
dominated by "Anglo-Saxon" free market ideas.


Nine other candidates propose radical solutions to the same
problems. Le Pen, the 78-year-old leader of the National Front,
is fighting his fifth election, promising to halt immigration and
defend French jobs by protectionism.


In addition there are three Trotskyite candidates, a Communist, a
Green and the anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The last two
runners are a hunters' party candidate who champions rural
interests and the Catholic nationalist Philippe de Villiers.

