

Northern Ireland's largest Protestant party would form a landmark
power-sharing government with Catholic foes if Monday's crunch
deadline to do so was put back six weeks, party sources said
Saturday.


But the British government seems unwilling to waver as the
province's future hangs in the balance amid last-ditch wrangling
as the clock ticks down.


Around 90 percent of the 120-member executive of the Democratic
Unionist Party (DUP), which met in Belfast on Saturday, want
British Prime Minister Tony Blair to agree to the delay, the
officials told AFP.


The conservative DUP is under pressure to state that it will
share power with socialists Sinn Fein, the largest Catholic
party, by the midnight Monday (2300 GMT) deadline. Failing that,
the devolved Northern Ireland Assembly will be axed indefinitely,
the British government has warned.


London also wants the DUP, led by Ian Paisley, to put forward
nominations for ministerial posts in a devolved executive by
midnight Saturday (0000 GMT Sunday).


Instead, the DUP sources, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said the executive had offered to sign up to power-sharing in May
-- if Blair was prepared to blink first and accept a six-week
delay.


No nominations for ministerial posts, including Paisley as first
minister, would be made -- but on the understanding that they
would be made in six weeks' time, they added.


But sources in Britain's Northern Ireland Office (NIO) told AFP
that Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Peter Hain was to go
ahead regardless Sunday and implement subordinate legislation.


That would mean he signed a restoration order for a devolved
assembly -- essentially clearing the way for the political
parties to nominate ministers and for them to be appointed
Monday.


"There cannot be a vacuum," said an NIO spokesman. Either the NIO
or a devolved executive had to take charge of Northern Irish
matters on Tuesday, he added.


Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said the DUP could only persuade
them to back a delay through direct dialogue. He urged Hain to
dissolve the assembly Tuesday if the DUP did not come forward.


The DUP refuses to talk to Sinn Fein because it is not yet
convinced the party is fully committed to democracy, law and
order -- a major reason they are calling for the delay.


In any case Paisley, who is also a preacher, will not talk
politics on a Sunday.


Sinn Fein is the political wing of the Irish Republican Army,
which was responsible for hundreds of deaths before it renounced
paramilitarism in 2005.


Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, former IRA commander Martin
McGuinness, would be in line to become Paisley's deputy if the
executive went ahead.


Adams said: "If the DUP wants a functioning assembly after March
26, this can only happen through direct dialogue and agreement
with Sinn Fein and the other parties."


Following the DUP executives' meeting, Paisley said only: "We
will deliver to you later on the full content of the resolution
and I think as the hours proceed, you will have a closer
conception and perception of what we are after."


If the Belfast assembly is dissolved, devolution could still go
ahead if Northern Ireland's parties come to an agreement on
forming a government and inform London they wish to proceed.


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said in Dublin that this
weekend was a "landmark moment in Irish history".


"The final steps are there to be taken and I hope that they'll be
taken fairly quickly," he added.


"All of the key outstanding issues have been painstakingly
addressed."


The 1998 Good Friday Agreement, which largely ended three decades
of sectarian bloodshed in Northern Ireland and set the province
on the path to peace, involved frantic last-minute wrangling that
went through the night past the deadline.


The scenario may repeat itself this time.

