

South Africa captain Graeme Smith insists his quest for a first
World Cup title is still on track despite a shattering 83-run
defeat to reigning champions Australia.


Both teams had already made sure of their places in the Super
Eights second round, but it's Ricky Ponting's Australians who go
into the next stage with a valuable extra two points now tucked
under their belts.


"A victory would have been terrific, but there is still so much
cricket to be played in this tournament. We know how many games
we have got to win to make the semi-finals," said Smith whose
team now face Sri Lanka in their second round opener in Guyana on
March 28.


"One of our strengths is our ability to pick ourselves up.


"It was a cracking game today and all credit to Australia, they
played well," said Smith whose side tried in vain to chase 378 to
win.


"We certainly had opportunities. They had 20 runs too many. It
was a cricket reason, nothing else. We still move on with
confidence."


Chasing a daunting target, South Africa lost their last nine
wickets for just 74 runs after being well placed at 220-1 in 31.3
overs.


Smith, who made 74 despite cramps in his left leg, in the company
of AB de Villiers (92) put on a quickfire 160 before the middle-
order collapsed to some tight bowling from left-arm spinner Brad
Hogg (3-61) and two wickets apiece to pacemen Shaun Tait and
Nathan Bracken.


"The turning point was when AB and I, the two batters in, ended
up being 'out' at the same time. It was a terrific run-out. AB
was really playing well but then losing both of us at made it a
rough point for us," said the skipper.


Once De Villiers was gone, and Smith retired, the South Afric
innings lost its way.


"Even going into the 35th over, we were right in there. But it
was just too much to do in the end," said Smith, who had to
retire at 184-2. He returned with the score of 5-264 only to fall
three runs later.


Australia opener Matthew Hayden hit the fastest hundred of World
Cup history with his ton coming off 66 balls while Michael Clarke
scored a 75-ball 92 and captain Ricky Ponting smashed run-a-ball
91.


Smith, whose team successfully chased a world record target of
435 against Australia at Johannesburg last year, said his
opponents' total was reachable.


"It was a 'gettable' total. But we lost our way at times. Hayden
played a superb knock. He really took the game to us and the
wicket played well," added Smith.


"We just left ourselves too much to do in the last ten overs.
It's disappointing but we still had opportunities to win the
game, which is good to know."


Smith disagreed that the small Warner Park ground devalued the
World Cup.


"It's a very difficult ground to defend on. When batters get
going its difficult. It doesn't devalue. Both teams have to play
on that wicket. It just creates a different sort of spectacle,
and I think people enjoyed their day."

