

On the bad streets of Iraq's Sunni Arab insurgent stronghold
Ramadi, Lieutenant Colonel Ahmed Shaker al-Alwani swaggers around
with axe in hand and gun at the hip. His nickname? Man With The
Axe.


Tribal-leader-turned-cop, Alwani cuts a imposing figure as he
strides around the city where insurgents still unleash havoc on
the security forces four years after the US-led invasion to oust
Sunni hero president Saddam Hussein.


"I was born in Ramadi, just like my great, great, great
grandfather," Alwani told AFP as hundreds of policemen spread out
in a district to hunt rebels.


While his men climb into blue and white unarmoured police
vehicles mounted with machine guns, The Man With The Axe prefers
to walk.


"All my men come from the same tribe. Wherever I go, they follow
me," he says, adjusting his axe as he readies for any emergency.


He and his men belong to the Sunni Alwani tribe, one of the
biggest in Ramadi, the capital of the vast Al-Anbar province and
the epicentre of the anti-American Sunni insurgency in war-torn
Iraq.


A prominent tribal elder, Alwani decided to become a policeman
four months ago and is now patrolling the streets of Ramadi.


Hundreds of Sunni Arabs like him are enlisting in the government
security forces in a bid to take on Al-Qaeda-led insurgents who
have pressed a harsh campaign to force their brand of Islamic
fundamentalism on Anbar province.


Alwani earnt his nickname after breaking into a deserted house by
smashing down the door with his trademark tool during a search
operation, earning instant fame and becoming a household hit
despite his relatively short tenure.


Unlike the crowbars usually carried by American soldiers to break
into targeted buildings, the axe also allows Alwani to intimidate
his foes.


On this particular day, 500 policemen take part in a pre-dawn
operation in downtown Ramadi, which the local officers know like
the back of their hands.


The policemen spread quickly across the target area as they carry
out search operations of houses they consider suspicious,
potential insurgent hideouts or possible recruiting grounds for
rebel informants.


"We pay extra attention when entering closed or empty houses,
because a lot of them are traps," one Iraqi policeman told AFP on
condition of anonymity, reeling off the latest insurgent tactic.


Many empty buildings in Ramadi are booby-trapped with explosives
buried in their walls which in the past caused heavy casualties
to probing Iraqi or US forces.


As the policemen continue their search, a radio in one vehicle
crackles with shouts of joy and celebratory singing. Alwani's men
have found a large cache of weapons, including mortar shells and
Kalashnikovs in an old petrol station.


"We are happy. We keep the Kalashnikovs and the ammunition and
use them," said another police officer also reluctant to disclose
his name.


"We don't have enough weapons. Sometimes we have to bring our own
weapons," he says complaining about shortages hamstringing the
local police.


He accused the Shiite-led interior ministry in Baghdad of failing
to provide enough arms to them, their Sunni brothers.


"We get nothing from the ministry of interior. It is run by gangs
and Mahdi Army militia," he said referring to fighters loyal to
radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, an ally of Shiite Iraqi
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


The United States has branded the militia the most dangerous
element in the crushing sectarian war concentrated in Baghdad.
Sadr's fighters are routinely accused of executing and torturing
hundreds of Sunni Arabs.


By midday the operation ends and the booty is significant: 45
detainees and five apparent rebels killed. Nevertheless, 10
police officers have been wounded in explosions and shootings
underscoring the danger of their profession.


But for US Marine Captain Sean Dynan of 1st Battalion, 6th Marine
Regiment it is still a successful operation, a result of bringing
locals into the rapidly expanding police force.


"IPs (Iraqi Policemen) are so effective here, because it's a
matter of survival for them, they have to defend their homes."


Dynan believes that the presence of American marines gives
additional strength to the raid, although his men mainly observed
and guarded against insurgents fleeing the areas of operation.


"The operation is designed to disrupt the enemy in an area
considered to be a safe haven and also for the people to see that
Iraqi policemen are willing to go anywhere in the city," said
Dynan.


"It will build confidence in the Iraqi police."

