

Second half substitute Craig Beattie struck a late winner to hand
Scotland a precious 2-1 home win against Georgia in their Euro
2008 qualifier here on Saturday.


It was Alex McLeish's first game in charge of the national team
since taking over from Walter Smith, and this welcome win will
give the Scots a huge boost ahead of a potentially trickier
fixture in Italy in midweek.


Rangers striker Kris Boyd had put the hosts ahead however a
former star of the Ibrox club, Shota Arveladze, equalised for
Georgia before the break.


Scotland dominated a shaky second half and in the last 20 minutes
spurned at least two chances to pull ahead.


With less than two minutes to full time a share of the points
looked on the cards before Beattie, who had replaced Boyd in the
75th minute, smashed in a dramatic winner to send the Tartan Army
into raptures.


The new Scotland boss was relieved of the win ahead of their
match away to World Cup winners Italy on Wednesday.


"After we scored our first goal we missed a couple of chances and
could have been two or three up," said McLeish.


"Georgia had not really got a foothold in the game at that point
so to lose a goal before half-time was disappointing.


"Some of the boys were a bit down at the break but showed great
character to come back.


"It's a great feeling to have won my first game as Scotland
manager and we can now go to Italy and be as positive as we can."


Georgia's German manager, Klaus Toppmoeller, thought his side
unlucky and admitted the result ended their chances of qualifying
- although he vowed to try and help Scotland.


"We were very unfortunate to lose. I thought we played very well
technically and gave a good account of ourselves.


"Before the game we knew Scotland were better in the air than us
and they scored both goals through winning headers in our penalty
box.


"To be realistic we needed to win the match to have a chance of
qualifying but we can still cause problems for France and Italy
to help Scotland."


Scotland were looking for their fourth win out five games to stay
top in Group B and took the lead in the 11th minute.


Gary Teale collected the ball wide on the right looked up and
curled in a cross towards the penalty spot where Boyd was
lurking.


The Rangers forward threw himself at the ball to send a powerful
header into the corner of the net beyond Georgia goalkeeper
George Lomaia.


Scotland should have been two up in the 19th minute.


Lee McCulloch's shot from 20-yards was deflected into the path of
Teale, unmarked six-yards from goal.


As the Georgia defenders waited for an offside decision which
never came, the Derby County player also seemed surprised and his
weak effort was comfortably saved by Lomaia low to his right.


However, in the 40th minute the visitors were level.


Giorgi Demetradze received the ball wide on the left, twisted
away from Scotland right-back Graham Alexander before swinging in
a perfect cross for Arveladze to head past goalkeeper Craig
Gordon from six yards.


Boyd almost scored a second in the 69th minute when his downward
shot from 18 yards bounced over Lomaia and rebounded off the
crossbar.


A minute later the Rangers striker missed a sitter when Gary
Naismith's cross found him unmarked at the back post only for
Boyd to completely miss the ball.


With time running out it appeared Scotland would have to settle
for a share of the points before their super-sub struck in the
89th minute.


As Georgia attempted to clear from another Scotland attack
Naismith sent a looping header back into the penalty area which
was flicked on by Miller into the path of Beattie.


The striker took a touch before sending a low left-foot shot into
the net and to the delight of the Tartan Army making up the
majority of the 50,850 crowd.

