

The European Union and the United States are headed for a
dogfight over transatlantic air travel, with Britain determined
to ensure that an "open skies" agreement will not leave Europe
grounded.


But however much Britain might complain, Washington is seen as
unlikely to cede much ground going forward on key issues such as
lifting limits on foreign control of US airlines or offering EU
airlines the right to fly between US cities.


European transport ministers gave a big boost on Thursday to
plans to create a more open transatlantic air traffic market by
backing a draft EU-US deal for a first round of liberalisation.


But Britain only signed onto the agreement after securing a five-
month delay in its application and an option to suspend the US
traffic rights under the deal if Washington does not commit to
further market opening in future talks.


British Transport Secretary Douglas Alexander stressed that the
suspension threat "sends a very clear signal to the US that we
are serious about making early progress to a second stage deal."


London wants a hard line against Washington because British
Airways and Virgin Atlantic are probably the biggest losers from
the draft deal, which is to go into effect at the end of March
2008.


The two companies, along with United Airlines and American
Airlines, are the only carriers currently allowed to fly
lucrative transatlantic routes from London's Heathrow airport
under an existing bilateral EU-Britain aviation pact, that will
be replaced by the new deal.


Under the open skies deal, the EU has obtained fewer concessions
from the United States than originally hoped and the bloc's
airlines are eager to redress the perceived imbalance.


In particular, the deal stipulates that any EU carrier will be
able to fly from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United
States and vice versa.


However, after completing a transatlantic flight, US airlines can
then fly on from one EU airport to another while European
carriers cannot do the same in the United States.


Although the deal will lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, their voting rights in a US carrier
will remain capped at 25 percent.


Peeved at the loss of its privileged position at Heathrow,
Europe's busiest airport, BA is cranking up pressure on the
British government to seek a better bargain in the next round of
negotiations by playing hardball.


"With the EU having given away their most valuable negotiating
asset -- Heathrow -- the UK government must stand by its pledge
to withdraw traffic rights if the US does not deliver further
liberalisation by 2010," said BA chief executive Willie Walsh.


However, Europe is likely to face stiff resistance in the
upcoming talks after the US administration was already forced to
withdraw proposed concessions on airline ownership due to
opposition in Congress.


Jim Oberstar, the Democratic chairman of the House of
Representatives transportation committee, reaffirmed his
opposition to the open skies pact in an interview with the St.
Paul Pioneer Press.


"I want to ensure this agreement does not lead to a greater
foreign control of US airlines. Decisions would be made far away
from us about which US markets would be serviced," he said.


Airline ownership has always been a sensitive issue on Capitol
Hill, in part because any US aircraft can be called into service
by the government during a period of crisis.


"Also after 9/11 the Hill is much more sensitive to foreign
ownership of key assets -- remember the big thing about Arab
investment in the ports," commented Barbara Beyer, analyst at
Avmark Inc, in reference to Dubai Ports World's abortive takeover
of some US port operations.


"Imagine what would happen if Arabs bought airlines with access
to planes and airports," she said.

