

The spectacular rise of greenhorn conservatives ahead of
elections Monday in the once hard-left Canadian province of
Quebec has moved the long feud between federalists and
separatists toward compromise.


For the first time in decades, an alternative has emerged to the
staunch federalist Liberals and hardline separatist Parti
Quebecois, dousing early hopes of either forming a majority
government.


Midway through the campaign, Mario Dumont's rightist Action
Democratique du Quebec (ADQ) surged within a few percentage
points of the frontrunners.


"Mario Dumont represents something radical, not extremist," said
political scientist Christian Dufour, at the National School of
Public Administration.


"In a society that is consensual and compromising like Quebec,
it's something new," he said, seeing in Dumont possibly Quebec's
greatest leader, albeit right- wing.


"Political elite and pundits tend to view Dumont as a negative
influence, a reflection of a fed-up electorate, a parking lot for
people who do not know who to support, reactionary," Dufour said.


"But he actually represents something positive, hope."


French-speaking Quebec has long been a battleground between
Francophones who want to break away from Canada and form their
own state, and others who want to stay firmly in mainly English-
speaking Canada.


ADQ held only five of 125 seats in Quebec's National Assembly
before the election, but is now poised to win more than 30 seats,
according to pollsters, fueled by vows to prune government,
reform welfare and partly privatize health care.


The party's neutral position between staunch federalism and
Quebec independence, a recurring debate in Canadian politics, has
also seduced many Quebecers who dream of nationhood but are wary
of letting go of Canada.


The ADQ favors more autonomy for Quebec, but not independence.


Parti Quebecois leader Andre Boisclair meanwhile has promised to
hold a plebiscite on breaking away from Canada, the second-
largest country in the world geographically, if his party wins
the March 26 provincial election.


Quebec voted twice against independence in 1980 and 1995.
Federalists led by Liberal leader Jean Charest narrowly won the
second ballot.


"Quebec autonomy implies a more decentralized Canadian
federation, which is what we want, instead of outright
independence," Dumont told AFP after shaking hands with voters at
a local restaurant.


During the campaign, the ADQ seized on voters' fatigue over
growing demands from immigrants to reconcile their ethnic
cultures, while refusing to integrate into Quebec society.


He denounced those who allowed Quebec traditions to be watered
down, creating divisions between multicultural and cosmopolitan
Montreal, and the rest of the province, mostly rural, with roots
in northern France.


In doing so, Dumont has cleverly pushed Quebec nationalism, but
stopped short of jumping into an uncertain future without the
rest of Canada for the largest French-speaking community in North
America.


A recent poll showed the ADQ with 26 percent support, versus 30
percent for the Liberals and 32 percent for the Parti Quebecois.


In Montreal, the ADQ trailed in third spot, but Dumont is the
dark horse outside Canada's third largest metropolis with 41
percent support.


Political analysts say the contest Monday is too close to call,
forcing observers in Ottawa, Canada's capital, to the edge of
their seats.


But regardless of which wins, a likely minority government in
Quebec with the ADQ holding the balance of power could mean a
softening of the separatist threat to break up Canada -- at least
until the next Quebec election.

