

A Chinese-born engineer will go on trial in a California court on
Tuesday charged with smuggling sensitive technology about US Navy
submarines to China.


Chi Mak, 66, an engineer working for a US company with several
Navy contracts, is accused of trying to export intelligence about
silent submarines in October 2005 in a plot that involved four
members of his family.


Mak, who is also charged with acting as an agent of China in the
United States and making false statements, was arrested after
agents swooped on two relatives at Los Angeles Airport as they
prepared to board a flight to Hong Kong.


According to Justice Department documents, the duo were caught
with a disk containing sensitive encrypted data on US submarines
hidden in a English- language CD course.


Mak's trial opens in Santa Ana on Tuesday with jury selection
while his relatives, including a brother, are expected to stand
trial in May.


Mak has not been formally charged with espionage because the
information on the disk has not officially been deemed
classified.


Instead prosecutors say the data relates to weapons-related
technology that requires an appropriate export license, which Mak
never sought.


Mak, a US citizen who was born in Guangzhou, China, has denied
the charges. Defense lawyer Ronald Kaye has described his client
as having an "unblemished" character.


Kaye has also said all the data referred to in the case was made
available at a public conference, and so cannot be described as
secret.


The investigation into Mak began in early 2004, when federal
agents began audio and video surveillance of the engineer and his
family.


Although the case is not an espionage trial, prosecution
documents give an insight into a shadowy world of intrigue,
revealing Chinese intelligence's use of code names such as Red
Flower, Winter Chrysanthemum and Autumn Orchid.


After raiding Mak's home, prosecutors say they also discovered a
'wish-list' of US military technology, including information on
missile defense and torpedo systems.


The trial comes amid increasing concern in the United States
about the activities of Chinese intelligence agencies.


A senior official said in remarks published earlier this month
that Chinese agents were the most active in the world and were
aggressively pursuing advanced technology.


"The technology bleed to China, among others, is a very serious
problem," Joel Brenner, the new head of the Office of National
Counterintelligence Executive, told The Washington Times.

