

Arab leaders hold a summit in Riyadh on Wednesday with attention
focused on reviving a contentious initiative offering Israel
peace in return for withdrawal from captured Arab lands.


The Arab League summit will take place amid a flurry of diplomacy
in the region, including tours by US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and UN chief Ban Ki- moon, but hopes of a peace
breakthrough are limited.


On Saturday Rice held talks with officials from Egypt, Saudi
Arabia, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates in Egypt during which
she tried to get the five-year- old initiative reinvigorated.


The plan offers recognition of the Jewish state if it returns to
its 1967 borders, permits the creation of an independent
Palestinian state and allows the return of Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative when it was
first made by Saudi Arabia at the Beirut Arab summit in 2002, but
Israeli leaders have recently spoken more positively of the ideas
as a starting point for negotiations.


While declining to say whether Washington also wants changes,
Rice said the plan should turn from a set of static "principles"
that leaves all the work to Israel into an active diplomatic
endeavour involving negotiations with the Jewish state.


"This is going to be a process of coming to a place where the
Arab initiative is really an active initiative -- that is
structured discussions between parties," she said. "I don't think
we're there yet."


But Mohammed Subeih, the league's assistant secretary general for
Palestinian affairs, insisted that the plan's details were not up
for discussion.


"This plan represents a unified Arab position and discussions
have shown that this plan will remain as is and there will be no
amendment," he said on Saturday.


The summit will instead reaffirm the league's commitment to the
plan and adopt measures to publicise it around the world, Subeih
said.


War-torn Iraq and Somalia, politically divided Lebanon, the
crisis in Sudan's Darfur and Iran's controversial nuclear drive
will also be discussed at the summit, Deputy Secretary General
Ahmed ben Helli said on Saturday.


Ahead of the summit, Saudi Arabia hosted a reconciliation meeting
between rival Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas, and launched
talks with non-Arab Iran aimed at solving the political crisis in
Lebanon.


Arab leaders are also expected to encourage amendment of the
Iraqi constitution which in its current form would split Iraq
into federal regions.


Iran's nuclear activity and its negative effects on its Arab
neighbours will also be on the agenda, with the Iranian foreign
minister due to attend the opening session, an Arab official
said.


Nevertheless, there is little expectation of a breakthrough at
the summit, with one Arab official telling AFP that "the issues
to be discussed are important but expectations of results are
modest."


Following Riyadh's hosting of rival Palestinian factions, a new
power-sharing cabinet including the Islamist Hamas and secular
Fatah faction was sworn in early this month in a bid to end
infighting and a crippling Western aid freeze to the Palestinian
Authority.


Saudi King Abdullah and Jordanian King Abdullah II agreed last
week that the summit must "re-adopt" the Beirut initiative,
despite demands by Israel for modifications.


Israel wants clauses concerning the right of return of
Palestinian refugees to be amended.


One calls for the return of Palestinians who fled or were forced
out in 1948. The other rules out their permanent settlement in
the Arab states where they or their descendants currently live.


In the run-up to the summit, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
said his country was ready to make "big and painful" concessions
to advance the peace process and that the Saudi-inspired Arab
plan could be a starting point.


Arab officials feel the bid should be better explained and
packaged.


"The problem is that the 11-member committee that was entrusted
in 2002 to promote the initiative did not do anything," one Arab
government official said.

