

The case of the boss of France's oil giant Total being hauled in
for questioning by the financial police this week has once again
raised the issue of bribes made to secure international deals.


Total's chief executive, Christophe de Margerie, was detained by
French police on Wednesday.


He was released on Thursday but not before being placed under
formal investigation on suspicion he had paid bribes to win a
contract in Iran.


The company is suspected of paying top Iranian officials nearly
100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80 million dollars)
through two Swiss bank accounts to win a contract in 1997.


Total says that it had signed the Iran deal "in compliance with
applicable law."


"The group is confident in its belief that the investigation will
establish the absence of any illegal activities," it said
following Margerie's release.


The World Bank estimates that a trillion dollars (750 billion
euros) changes hands every year in suspect deals. According to
the United Nations, the cost of corruption in some countries may
amount to as much as 30 percent of gross domestic product.


And some, such as Transparency International, a group that
monitors corruption around the world, believe that globalisation
has increased, not decreased, its prevalence.


"In the 1990s, there was growth in corruption with the
globalisation of financial circuits that facilitated the
establishment of accounts in tax havens," said Jacques Terray,
vice president of Transparency International's branch in France.


Typically, it is large infrastructure deals that are susceptible
to bribery. There are large sums involved and a lot of interest
in securing the deals and often poorly paid but well placed
officials who get to sign off on a contract.


Oil contracts, arms deals or large public works projects are all
obvious candidates for underhand shenanigans.


But water contracts are also increasingly suspicious according to
Severine Teissier, president of French anti-corruption
organisation Anticor.


She says that the exploitation of scarce water resources in some
countries is a "web of corruption" and that water itself is
becoming something of a "blue gold" not unlike oil, long known as
black gold.


To combat the scourge international organisations have attempted
to limit graft in recent years.


The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development drafted
an agreement in 1997 banning companies in those countries that
signed up to the deal from paying bribes to foreign government
officials.


Thirty-six countries have signed it including the OECD's 30
members plus Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Estonia and
Slovenia.


The United Nations put together an anti-corruption convention in
2003 that has been signed by 140 states, though not all have
ratified it. The Council of Europe and the World Bank have
developed anti-corruption plans as well.


But even nations that regularly appear at the respectable end of
Transparency International's list of corrupt states can find
themselves in the spotlight.


In mid-March, the OECD criticised Britain for dropping an
investigation into suspected bribery involving arms deals between
BAE Systems and Saudi Arabia.


The British government said it dropped the investigation on the
grounds of "national interest," saying Saudi Arabia had
threatened to sever its security links if the probe continued.


But some see good news in the fact that the Total deal is being
investigated.


"The Total scandal is proof that the (OECD) convention works," an
OECD spokesman said on Friday.


But the convention has its limits. It does not extend to bribes
paid to private intermediaries, nor does it apply to new economic
powers that have not signed, including China and India.

