

The banned drug that plunged the 1998 world swimming
championships into crisis will not be tested for in Melbourne, a
report said Sunday, as a former coach said it was impossible to
believe the sport was drug free.


At the 1998 championships, Chinese swimmer Yuan Yuan was found
with human growth hormone in her luggage on arrival at Perth
airport.


Four more Chinese swimmers tested positive for drugs at the meet,
leaving their reputation in tatters and the event in crisis.


Yet the Sunday Herald Sun reported that blood tests, which detect
human growth hormone, will not be conducted in Melbourne because
they are too expensive. Instead, only urine tests will be carried
out.


"We never test for blood during competition and that's standard
across a range of sports," FINA executive director Cornel
Marculescu was quoted as saying.


"We are extremely happy with our testing program and we've been
extremely pro- active in increasing testing procedures. It's very
rare we have a problem."


Only 300 drug tests will be carried out at the championships
which began in earnest Sunday with the main swimming events, the
report said.


Staunch anti-doping campaigner Raelene Boyle, an Australian
Olympic silver medallist, said it was a mistake not to test
blood.


"We are talking about an elite sport with the best in the world
competing and to say it's a money thing is just unacceptable and
a cop-out," she told the paper.


In a separate report, Australia's former head coach Don Talbot
said it was ridiculous to think the sport was drug free.


"You are looking through rose-coloured glasses if you think the
sport is drug free," he told the Sunday Age newspaper.


"I think everything's being done that is possible at the moment,
(but) I'm cynical enough to say if you believe that there's no
one there then you believe in fairies."


Persistent suspicions about doping have haunted the German team
here after their previously-unheralded women, led by Britta
Steffen, broke three world records at the European championships
in Budapest last year.


German head coach Orjan Madsen has called for more drug testing
in a bid to stamp out any lingering concerns, but said the
scepticism was understandable given the systemic doping in East
German sports teams in the 1970s and 1980s.


On Saturday, American head coach Mark Schubert said he believed
the level of testing being conducted at major meetings is better
than before.


"My personal opinion is that I think the testing is much more
thorough than years past so I think the chances of getting
through the meet with a clean competition are very good," he
said.


"It would be naive of us to think that any sport is completely
clean but I think we are really on guard against any cheaters."

