

Belarus's opposition was set to hold a massive rally Sunday
against President Alexander Lukashenko to mark a year since a
wave of unprecedented protests swept Minsk.


Frequently targeted by the KGB security service, the opposition
accused Belarussian authorities of a series of preemptive arrests
over the past few days, with nearly 50 activists put behind bars
in a bid to cripple the demonstration set to begin at midday
(0900 GMT) in downtown Minsk.


Vyacheslav Sivchik, one organiser of last year's camp tent set up
by the opposition in downtown Minsk to protest Lukashenko's
reelection, was seized by police late Saturday.


"They arrested me and are taking me to a provisionary detention
center," Sivchik told AFP by telephone, adding that "they accuse
me of organising mass unrest" at Sunday's rally.


The website of Belarus's opposition leader Alexander Milinkevich
Saturday published a list of 48 opposition activists arrested in
the past few days, including many young leaders of last year's
protest in which several hundred protestors occupied Oktyabrskaya
Square for four days, before being arrested en masse.


Arrests have also taken place in the provinces, including the
cities of Grodno and Gomel, opposition members say.


Police officials could not be contacted to confirm the reports.


Washington Friday voiced concern about the arrests, calling on
Belarus to end "harassing" the opposition.


"The United States is deeply concerned about ongoing intimidation
by the authorities of Belarus toward NGO activists, political
party leaders and young people in advance of a planned peaceful
demonstration in Minsk on March 25," State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack said in a statement.


The Minsk regime took no chances, also setting up "national
celebrations" -- or open-air concerts -- to coincide with the
rally, as part of celebrating the anniversary of Belarus's
fragile independence first declared on March 25, 1918.


The holiday is much loved by Belarussians, particularly the
opposition, but generally not recognised by the authorities.


Opponents have been banned from gathering on Minsk's vast central
Oktyabrskaya Square and have instead been allotted a small square
on the city outskirts.

