

Cameroon, South Africa and Tunisia scored three goals each as the
giants flexed their muscles in African Nations Cup qualifiers on
Saturday.


The 'Indomitable Lions' of Cameroon made it three wins in three
Group 5 outings with two goals from Spain-based striker Achille
Webo setting up a 3-1 win over Liberia in Yaounde.


France-based striker Issam Jomaa went one better for 2004 Nations
Cup holders Tunisia, snatching a hat-trick in the 3-0 rout of
Seychelles on the Indian Ocean island.


And former Brazil World Cup-winning coach Carlos Alberto Parreira
celebrated his first match in charge of South Africa with a 3-0
victory over Chad in hot and dusty N'Djamena.


The commanding performances came as the third round of qualifiers
for the 2008 Nations Cup in Ghana kicked off with intense
competition expected as only the 12 group winners are guaranteed
places at the biennial tournament.


Perhaps the biggest surprise in Yaounde was that Barcelona
superstar Samuel Eto'o, back in the starting line-up for four-
time African champions Cameroon, did not feature among the
scorers.


But Jules Nyongha, standing in after Dutch coach Arie Haan quit
early this year, had nothing to worry about as Webo once again
demonstrated his pedigree  by scoring twice within 25 minutes of
the kickoff.


His first was a soft tap-in and he eluded his Liberian 'minder'
to snatch the second by connecting with a free kick from Geremi
of English Premiership champions Chelsea.


Liberia, who beat Rwanda last October after losing their opening
fixture in Equatorial Guinea, silenced the home crowd seven
minutes before half-time when Greece-based Francis Doe reduced
arrears with a soft goal.


Cameroon dominated the second half exchanges with desperate
Liberia resorting to fouls and Dioh Wiliams was shown a yellow
card for a clumsy challenge on three- time African Footballer of
the Year Eto'o.


It got worse for Liberia when George Gebro was shown red after
being cautioned twice and Idrissou Mohamadou, who plays his club
football in  Germany, settled the outcome by connecting with a
Geremi cross.


Tunisia recalled midfielder Slim Benachour and defender Riadh
Jaidi came out of retirement as the 'Carthage Eagles' shook off
Group 4 cobwebs from the early rounds to win with surprising
ease.


Former Esperance star Jomaa opened the scoring with a shot from
the edge of the penalty area after 18 minutes and Haykel
Guemamdia wasted a chance to add a second before half-time.


A defensive blunder gifted Jomaa his second goal after 77 minutes
and the hat- trick was completed soon after when a rapid
counterattack caught the home defence napping.


Sibusiso Zuma had three chances to put South Africa ahead before
striker Surprise Moriri claimed his first international goal and
impressive midfielder Delron Buckley added a second in first half
stoppage time.


Zuma finally hit the target with 14 minutes left, scoring from
close range, and the match was marred in the closing stages when
a missile struck a Benin assistant referee causing a five-minute
delay.


Arsenal striker Emmanuel Adebayor scored twice as Togo welcomed
back coach Stephen Keshi with a 3-1 win over Sierra Leone in Lome
to move two points  clear of Group 9 pacesetters Mali, who host
Benin on Sunday.


Olufade Adekanmi was also on target for the Togolese, who fired
former Nigeria star Keshi after disappointing results at the 2006
Nations Cup tournament in Egypt, and who also had a blazing row
with Adebayor during the tournament where they had to be
prevented by the other players and officials from coming to
blows.

