

Northern Ireland's largest Protestant party was waiting to see
Sunday if London would budge and accept a six-week delay on
Monday's deadline for striking a power-sharing deal with Catholic
foes.


Sources in the hardline Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) told AFP
the group is now prepared to make the landmark jump and form an
executive with Sinn Fein, the largest Catholic party -- if London
gives them six weeks' breathing space to overcome remaining
hurdles.


However, London seems unwilling to waver as the clock ticks down,
leaving the British-ruled province's future hanging in the
balance.


The situation could develop into a stand-off between the DUP and
the government of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who is
desperate to see self-rule restored in the province before he
quits office as promised later this year.


And the wait is all the more nervy because DUP leader Ian
Paisley, an 80-year- old firebrand preacher, refuses to talk
politics on a Sunday.


The DUP plan was backed by 90 percent of its 120-member executive
at a crunch meeting in Belfast on Saturday, party chiefs
announced, without officially disclosing the details.


The conservative DUP remains under pressure to state that it will
share power with socialists Sinn Fein by the midnight Monday
(2300 GMT) deadline. Failing that, the devolved Northern Ireland
Assembly will be axed indefinitely, Britain has vowed.


"The government's position is consistent and unchanged," Northern
Ireland Secretary Peter Hain was quoted as saying in The Observer
newspaper.


"We have not agreed to emergency legislation. If the March 26
deadline does not happen, the assembly will dissolve.


"And after that the parties will have to come back to us with an
agreed position before we can move forward. How long that takes
is up to them.


"In the meantime, direct rule (from London) will continue,
working closely with the Irish government."


Government sources told the BBC that Hain was yet to be informed
of the DUP executive's resolution.


Sources in Britain's Northern Ireland Office (NIO) told AFP that
Hain was therefore to go ahead Sunday and implement subordinate
legislation.


That would mean he signs a restoration order for a devolved
assembly, clearing the way for the political parties to nominate
ministers and for them to be appointed Monday.


"There cannot be a vacuum," said an NIO spokesman. Either the NIO
or a devolved executive had to take charge of Northern Irish
matters on Tuesday, he added.


Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said the DUP could only persuade
them to back a delay through direct dialogue. He urged Hain to
dissolve the assembly Tuesday if the DUP did not come forward.


The DUP refuses to talk to Sinn Fein because it is not yet
convinced the party is fully committed to democracy, law and
order -- a major reason why they are calling for the delay.


Sinn Fein is the political wing of the Irish Republican Army,
which was responsible for hundreds of deaths before it renounced
paramilitarism in 2005.


Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, former IRA commander Martin
McGuinness, would be in line to become Paisley's deputy if the
executive went ahead.


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said in Dublin that this
weekend was a "landmark moment in Irish history".


"The final steps are there to be taken and I hope that they'll be
taken fairly quickly," he added.


The 1998 Good Friday Agreement, which largely ended three decades
of sectarian bloodshed in Northern Ireland and set the province
on the path to peace, involved frantic last-minute wrangling that
went through the night past the deadline.


The scenario may repeat itself this time.

