

The UN Security Council's five permanent members and Germany
Saturday called for further talks with Iran to end the row over
its nuclear program, after the UN slapped fresh sanctions on
Tehran.


"We are committed to seeking a negotiated solution that would
address the international community's concerns," the foreign
ministers of members China, France, Russia, Britain and the
United States plus non-member Germany said in a statement
released here.


"We propose further talks with the Islamic Republic of Iran to
see if a mutually acceptable way can be found to open
negotiations."


The council's 15 members earlier voted unanimously to adopt a new
resolution that broadens UN sanctions on Iran in a bid to
pressure it into freezing its uranium enrichment program.


Some powers fear the program masks a bid to develop atomic
weapons, but Iran defiantly insists it is only aimed at producing
energy.


"We deplore Iran's failure to comply with the earlier resolutions
of the Security Council and the IAEA," said the statement
referring to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN
nuclear watchdog.


"We call upon Iran once again to comply fully with all its
international obligations."


The statement was released by the US State Department and
endorsed by the European Union.


Saturday's resolution broadens sanctions passed in December
against Iran for spurning repeated demands to suspend the
sensitive nuclear fuel work.


The new measures are to block all Iranian arms exports and freeze
the overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


"We recognise Iran's rights under the NPT (Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty) to develop research, production and use of
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes," the ministers' statement
added.


"In this respect, future arrangements, modalities and timing will
be dealt with in negotiations."


"We urge Iran to take this opportunity to engage with us all and
to find a negotiated way forward. Our proposals would bring far-
reaching benefits to Iran and to the region."

