

The UN Security Council Saturday slapped new sanctions on Iran to
pressure Tehran into suspending its sensitive nuclear program
which some powers fear masks a bid to develop atomic weapons.


The council's 15 members adopted Resolution 1747, co-sponsored by
Britain, France and Germany, that broadens UN sanctions imposed
on Iran in December for spurning repeated demands to suspend
sensitive nuclear fuel work.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to help meet the country's energy needs. Uranium is the basic
material for both military and civilian nuclear programs.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had demanded to be allowed
to address the Council, but he canceled his travel plans late
Friday as Tehran blamed Washington for delaying his visa, a
charge denied by US officials.


The draft resolution was worked out last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus non-member Germany.


They had to overcome objections from South Africa, Indonesia and
Qatar, which had sought amendments calling for a nuclear-free
Middle East -- an oblique reference to Israel which is believed
to the sole, if undeclared nuclear power in the region.


The new resolution builds on the December sanctions which
included a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic missile-
related materials to Iran, foreign travel restrictions on
Iranians involved in sensitive atomic and ballistic missile work
and a freeze on their overseas assets.


An annex to the new resolution details the diplomatic and
economic incentives which the six powers presented to Iran last
June to coax it into giving up uranium enrichment.


The vote comes amid deteriorating relations between Iran and
Western powers such as the United States and Britain.


Washington has toughed its tone against Tehran in recent months,
accusing it of fomenting sectarian unrest in Iraq.


Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said last week that the
new sanctions would act as a "vise" that would start to isolate
Tehran from the rest of the world.


"Iran needs to think carefully about its options on the nuclear
issue," Burns said at a conference on Iran grouping policymakers
and experts.


"In my judgment they have made a series of miscalculations," he
said.


Britain is also locked in diplomatic row with Iran, after 15
British navy personnel were seized by Iranian forces in the Gulf
on Friday.


Iran said on Saturday that the 15 had admitted under questioning
in Tehran to violating its territorial waters and rejected
demands from London for their swift release.


But former Iranian president Mohammad Khatami called during a
visit to New Delhi for talks to settle the crisis over Iran's
controversial atomic program.


"Iran will never go for nuclear weapons," Khatami told a press
conference in the Indian capital, according to the Indian Express
newspaper. "Weapons of mass destruction have never been our
objective."


Iran was always ready to give an "objective guarantee" on its
commitment not to develop nuclear weapons and the issue should be
solved "through negotiations," he added.

