

With 500 days to go from Tuesday before the curtain rises on the
2008 Olympic Games, China is busy ironing out every potential
blemish to the perfect staging of the world's biggest sporting
event.


Construction of venues, training facilities and accommodation for
more than 16,000 athletes and delegation officials remains on
schedule to be completed more than six months ahead of the August
8-24 Games.


Before then, the venues will host more than 40 test events in the
most comprehensive preparations for a sports event the world has
ever seen.


The National Stadium, known as the Bird's Nest, stands at the
centre of a vast Olympic complex that symbolises China's new face
as Asia's superpower and the world's fourth largest economy.


"The architecture of the stadium is fantastic and to see it grow
you really feel you want to be inside and feel the Olympic
spirit," said Gunilla Lindberg, vice president of the
International Olympic Committee.


She has watched the National Stadium emerge from a large hole in
the ground during her 15 visits to the Chinese capital over
several years.


"All the venues are coming on very well," she told AFP here last
week. "Everything is going according to plan."


Close to the Bird's Nest stands the National Aquatics Centre, the
squat blue box known as the Water Cube with its energy-saving
outer membrane that mimics bubbling water.


These symbols of the new China stand astride an ancient axis that
cuts the city in two, running north-south through the centre of
the Imperial Palace in the Forbidden City and the heart of
Beijing's famous Tiananmen Square.


IOC president Jacques Rogge has praised Beijing's preparations,
saying they will have a positive effect on China's relationship
with the outside world.


But Rogge added a word of caution during his last visit here in
October when he said that shiny new venues would not add up to a
successful Games.


China had to look out for "less tangible elements that will
ultimately shape the world's image of China and the Beijing
Games," he warned.


For China's leadership, the Olympics presents the country with
the chance to showcase a new image to the world.


"We want to show that China is a country rich in history and
civilisation," organising committee president Liu Qi told AFP
last week.


He recalled that some travel restrictions on foreign reporters
operating in China had been lifted for the Olympics.


"We want the whole world to see the economic and social progress
of China," he said.


Those "less tangible elements" mentioned by Rogge may include the
kind of problems it was hard for the IOC to gauge six years ago
when it voted for Beijing to host the 2008 Games.


Economic growth of more than 10 percent a year has triggered a
massive construction boom and 9,000 building sites with more
construction cranes than in the whole of Europe dot the Beijing
skyline.


Newly affluent Beijingers buy more than 1,000 new cars a day,
adding to gridlock on Beijing's streets and pouring out exhaust
fumes that mix with construction dust and factory smoke to turn
Beijing into one of the world's most polluted cities.


Organising committee president Liu told AFP he had no magic wand
to eliminate pollution but promised clean air at least for the
two weeks of the Olympics -- by invoking emergency powers to shut
all factories if necessary.


Liu, also a member of the politburo, the Communist Party inner
sanctum that holds the reins of power in China, stressed the
importance of Beijing residents to the success of the Games.


"One of our slogans is 'I participate, I contribute, I enjoy',"
he said. "The Beijing government hopes to involve the people in
the preparatory work for the Olympics and make them happy to do
so."


Campaigns, that hark back to mass movements of China's
revolutionary past, include a drive to clean up Beijing's image
by persuading residents to smile, and to stop spitting,
littering, and queue-jumping.


"We want to be on our best behaviour for the Olympics," said
Zhang Huiguang, director of Beijing's Capital Ethic Development
Office, which is running the campaign.

