

The United States Saturday described the new UN sanctions imposed
on Iran as an international rebuke against the Islamic Republic
which would leave it even more internationally isolated.


"We are obviously very pleased by the strength of this
resolution. It is a significant international rebuke to Iran and
is a significant tightening of the international pressure on
Iran," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters.


He spoke after the UN Security Council Saturday unanimously
adopted a second resolution in three months slapping new
sanctions on Iran to pressure it into suspending its sensitive
nuclear program which some powers fear masks a bid to develop
atomic weapons.


The new resolution "is substantially stronger than the first and
we do believe it is going to leave Iran even more isolated than
it has been," Burns said.


"We believe the second resolution is a significant blow to the
Iranian government," he said.


Burns said foreign ministers of the five veto-wielding security
council permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus non-member Germany were to issue a
statement later Saturday reaffirming their offer to negotiate
with Iran to resolve the nuclear stalemate.


"Our objective is a peaceful resolution to the problem," he said.


The new resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to help meet the country's energy needs. Uranium is the basic
material for both military and civilian nuclear programs.


The new resolution expands sanctions already imposed on Iran in
December after the Islamic Republic spurned international demands
to freeze its uranium enrichment program.

