

Philippe Jacquot surveyed the two dozen books on the French
presidential race in a Paris bookstore and declared that after
years of aversion to politics, he had decided to vote in next
month's election.


A 50-year-old father of four, Jacquot said he had given up on
politicians "who never tackle France's fundamental problems"
until a new crop of contenders emerged to stand for office in the
April and May votes.


"There is a candidate out there who is saying things that are
interesting to me," said Jacquot, an employee for a social
housing agency.


Rarely have candidates in a French election gone to such lengths
to cast themselves as the face of change, in a country that has
long prided itself with being an "exception" in the world.


No one believes that French voters are about to stage a
revolution at the ballot box, but the next president will be the
man -- or woman -- who best succeeds in addressing a yearning for
change.


After years of high unemployment that has only recently come down
to 8.6 percent and a huge debt (equivalent to 64.6 percent of
GDP) that is calling into question the future of the welfare
state, the French are taking a dim view of the state of their
nation.


"Everyone agrees on the diagnosis, even the people on the left,"
said Bertrand Dehelly, 59, a bank director who leafed through the
large number of new releases on offer in the politics section of
the bookstore.


"We have been wasting a lot of time. We kept thinking that we
were happy and rich and didn't realise that we needed to get
moving so that we could continue to be competitive," said
Dehelly.


Dehelly's daughter a year ago left France for Spain -- "one of
those European countries where it's possible to do something," he
explained -- joining the estimated one million French under the
age of 35 who are working abroad.


"There is a strong feeling in France that a job will not
guarantee you a good life," said 27-year-old Michael Erdibou, a
bank employee.


"My generation is not guaranteed a life that will be better or as
good as that of our parents."


Youth unemployment in France is hovering at close to 22 percent,
among the highest in Europe.


The campaign is also giving way to a lot of soul-searching over
France's place in the world as factories close and jobs are lost
in the new globalised economy and the future of Europe after the
French said 'no' to the EU constitution in a 2005 referendum.


Despite a big push by candidates to show they can lead a
turnaround, polls show at least one in three voters is still
undecided, one month before the first round of voting on April
22.


Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing right-wing party,
has promised a "clean break" with the past, saying there should
be no taboo subjects for debate such as immigration and national
identity.


His main rival Socialist Segolene Royal wants to become France's
first woman president, promising "deep change" for the country
under a Sixth Republic that would usher in new institutions of
government.


So far the biggest surprise in the campaign has been centrist
Francois Bayrou who says the "dramatic crisis "in France can only
be tackled by a national unity government that would breach the
left-right divide.


"What's clear is that there is a real willingness to change"
among French voters, said pollster Bruno Jeanbart of the private
firm Opinion Way.


"A majority of French voters want change even if they don't have
a clear idea about what this change is supposed to be."


Polls show scepticism among voters about the proposals put
forward by the candidates to get France back on track.


"The campaign speeches are designed to make us believe that we
are at turning point, but I don't think much will change," said
Jean-Claude Pons, 52, an insurance company manager.


"We'd be very satisfied if we managed to fill in a bit the hole
that we have dug for ourselves."

