

China coach Zhu Guanghu faced down growing calls to quit after
the tame defeat to second-string Australia which raised early
doubts about their Asian Cup chances.


Sections of the crowd chanted for Zhu to step down as the home
side lost 2-0 against a visiting Australian team missing many of
its first-choice players.


The match was played days after the coach's car was attacked by
dozens of angry fans as he left a match in the southeastern city
of Xiamen.


Zhu said he realised fans were upset but pointed to a spirited
second-half revival, led by Manchester United's Dong Fangzhuo, as
cause for optimism.


"The fans didn't want China to lose this match, that's why they
said those things," Zhu said.


"In the second half some players played very well, but they just
weren't strong enough, so the crowd reacted.


"My job is to try my best, to fight for my country and make our
football team much better in Asia."


China made an abominable start as Australia, orchestrated by a
sparkling Mark Viduka, cut through them twice in the opening 30
minutes and threatened to humiliate Zhu's men in front of their
home fans.


But Dong, 22, made an instant impact when he came on late in the
first half and proved a constant threat down the right flank.


"Dong was very useful in this match and I'll use him much more in
the future," Zhu said, also praising Energie Cottbus midfielder
Shao Jiayi and Charlton's Zheng Zhi.


"Blending our overseas and home-based players in one team is the
key to making our team much better," he said.


Meanwhile Australia coach Graham Arnold, who is assured of his
job only until the end of the Asian Cup, was delighted with the
work-out just three months away from their tournament debut.


Viduka, tipped to quit international football after the Asian
Cup, was in superb touch while there were encouraging debuts for
Carl Valeri and Shane Stefanutto, and a first international goal
for Brett Holman.


"He's such an important cog for the way we want to play," Arnold
said of Viduka.


"I'm delighted with the couple of young boys who came out, and
Brett Holman's work-rate was phenomenal defensively as well as in
attack."


China, runners-up to Japan in the last Asian Cup, face another
friendly against Uzbekistan in Macau on Tuesday.


Zhu took over the national team in March 2005 after their failure
to qualify for last year's World Cup under his predecessor Arie
Haan.

