

Thailand's tough capital controls have failed to keep the baht
from rising to nine-year highs against the dollar as investors
are betting the government will soon rescind the rules, analysts
say.


The Bank of Thailand imposed the currency rules three months ago
in a bid to rein in the baht, which jumped by more than 10
percent over the past year.


But the Thai unit has risen again over the past month, breaking
the 35 level barrier in March and hitting new nine-year highs on
speculation that the central bank will soon let go the draconian
rules, analysts said.


"Investors are betting on the fact that officials will have to
remove the currency controls soon," said Philip Wee, a currency
strategist at DBS Bank in Singapore.


"Foreign investors think that the capital control measures are
not sustainable for a long time because these measures discourage
new capital inflows. The capital controls are hurting the
economy," Wee said.


The currency rules required 30 percent of all incoming investment
to be held by financial institutions for up to one year.


Foreign investors, who make up 40 percent of the Thai market, saw
the rules as a steep tax on equity investments and quickly dumped
shares, triggering the bourse's biggest-ever one-day drop in
December with market losses worth 23 billion dollars.


While the stock debacle later forced the army-backed government
to reverse some of the currency rules in an embarrassing U-turn,
the baht weakened to the 36 level to the dollar from the level of
35.12 seen in late December.


As the baht began rising again this month, central bank governor
Tarisa Watanagase and Finance Minister Chalongphob Sussangkarn
repeatedly insisted the government would keep the capital
controls.


But Albin Liew, a senior economist at United Overseas Bank in
Singapore, said market players believed just the opposite.


"The capital controls were meant to keep the Thai baht low. But
they were not so effective as we saw a steady increase in the
currency and investors were expecting an eventual removal" of the
measures, Liew said.


The baht is now firming in line with gains in regional currencies
against the dollar amid concern over a slump in the US economy,
as well as foreign demand for Thai equities, analysts said.


"Investors are trying to get into the Thai market because it is
relatively cheap compared with other regional stock markets in
Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia," Wee from DBS said.


JP Morgan last week put a "buy" recommendation for Thai banking,
contractor and property stocks, noting in a report that investors
were "underestimating the combined impact of a strong currency
and pro-growth monetary policy on Thai GDP and profit growth
going into 2008."


The US investment bank even called Thailand's U-turn on the
capital controls "positive" so that "central banks in the region
will be very cautious when using non-conventional means to
control currency strength."


Among 19 emerging markets including Brazil, India and the
Philippines, JP Morgan put Thailand the cheapest, while warning
that the kingdom's military-installed government was "still
struggling to gain investors confidence."


Six months after a military coup in September, the Thai stock
market has still not recovered to the pre-putsch level of 700
points, hovering around the 670 level.


But exports, the key driver of the Thai economy, have so far
appeared resilient to post-coup political uncertainty and a
strong baht, which makes Thai exports less competitive abroad.


Exports jumped by nearly 18 percent in January, giving Thailand a
solid trade surplus, although the baht traded at 36 to the dollar
on average in the month, up 10 percent a year earlier.


But Pichai Lertsupongkit, a senior vice president at Thanachart
Securities in Bangkok, warned against a further rise in the baht
and its negative impact on exports in the upcoming quarters.


"If the baht keeps rising, it will hurt our exports in the second
quarter, and exports also may tank due to a slowdown in the US
economy," Thailand's biggest export market, Pichai said.

