

Brilliantly led by their captain Andre Pretorius the Lions put
back to back defeats in New Zealand behind them to score an
emphatic 30-7 Super 14 win over the Wellington Hurricanes here
Saturday.


The Lions, who led 17-7 at the break, scored a try either side of
half-time to bounce back after losing to the Auckland Blues and
Waikato Chiefs in their previous outings.


The Hurricanes, who had included all six of their resting All
Blacks - Rodney So'oialo, Chris Masoe, Jerry Collins, Jason
Eaton, Andrew Hore and Piri Weepu - were no match for the team
from Johannesburg who also beat the Highlanders and Crusaders
earlier in the competition.


The Lions also got the better of the Queensland Reds and Western
Force on their Australsian tour of the southern hemisphere inter-
provincial rugby union tournament.


The victory takes the Lions into sixth spot on the log, while the
Hurricanes remain in eight place after their fifth defeat.


The Lions dominated through their young pack, which at times
toyed with the more experienced Hurricanes front eight. Not only
did they enjoy superiority at scrum time, with Heinke van der
Merwe all powerful, but as a unit they put the visitors under
tremendous pressure at the breakdowns.


And not only were the home side more clinical in attack, they
defended better than the Hurricanes and their ball control,
protection and execution was also of the highest standard.


"The Lions were just better than us today and full credit to
them," said Hurricanes captain So'oialo. "We simply made too many
errors to be competitive."


Home team captain Pretorius was well-pleased with his side's
fifth win of the season. "Our pack was phenomenal this evening.
All credit to them ... they provided us with a fantastic base to
play from."


The home side's driving maul caused all sorts of problems for the
visitors and it was through this route that the Lions scored
their first try on 27 minutes. Lock Anton van Zyl won the ball at
the lineout and his teammates quickly gathered around him to
drive hooker Ethienne Reynecke over the line.


Together with two early Pretorius penalties and a further two on
37 and 39 minutes the Lions deservedly led 17-0 a minute from the
break.


The Hurricanes though made a rare entry into Lions territory on
the stroke of half-time and scrumhalf Weepu found the tiniest of
gaps to force his way over the line. Blair Stewart added the
extras, but those would be the only points for the match for the
men from Wellington.


Pretorius struck a drop-goal and a fifth penalty moments after
the turn-around before his clever stab through kick on 70 minutes
allowed centre Jaque Fourie to grab his team's second try.

