

Ian Paisley, the hardline Protestant preacher who leads Northern
Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), has earned the
nickname "Doctor No" for his fierce opposition to compromise with
Catholic opponents.


Now DUP sources say his party has agreed on the principle of
entering a power- sharing government with his sworn enemies Sinn
Fein, formerly the political wing of the Irish Republican Army
(IRA).


If it happens, it would be a potent symbol of how far Northern
Ireland has come since the 1998 peace deal which largely ended
the Troubles -- the 30 years of Protestant-Catholic conflict in
which some 3,500 people died, many at the hands of the IRA.


But Paisley's history of pledging "no surrender" to republicanism
makes some sceptical that an agreement can be struck.


The man who could become Northern Irish first minister is one of
the most recognisable figures in British politics.


Although bowed by age, the 80-year-old is a giant figure with a
booming voice and a ringing line in Biblical rhetoric straight
from the pulpit.


An evangelical Christian who founded the Free Presbyterian Church
in 1951, he has condemned the Catholic Church, which he once
reportedly labelled "the whore of Babylon," and the republican
movement with equal vigour.


Neither does he shrink from attacking homosexuality and alcohol
-- which he is said to refer to as "the devil's buttermilk."


Paisley was first elected to the British parliament's House of
Commons in London in 1970 and co-founded the DUP, which
vociferously guards the union between Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the following year.


Nationalists and Republicans, overwhelmingly Catholics, want the
province to be integrated into the Republic of Ireland.


Paisley was a vocal opponent of both the 1973 Sunningdale
Agreement and the 1985 Anglo-Irish Agreement -- efforts brokered
by then-prime ministers Ted Heath and Margaret Thatcher to end
the violence in Northern Ireland.


And when the 1998 Good Friday peace deal ushered in Northern
Ireland's assembly, his intransigence led many to write off
Paisley, who was against this deal too, as a dinosaur.


But the DUP took 20 seats in the subsequent elections -- making
it the third largest party, ahead of Sinn Fein -- building up to
30 out of 108 in the 2003 poll, and 36 in the March 7 election
this year.


It also has nine lawmakers at the House of Commons after the 2005
general election, compared to just one for the more moderate
Ulster Unionists, whose electorate has been swallowed up by the
DUP.


With increasing electoral success came hints of a willingness to
compromise not previously associated with Paisley.


Amid reports that he had suffered an undisclosed serious illness,
he held a historic first meeting with Irish Prime Minister Bertie
Ahern in 2004.


This was a major reversal from the time in 1965 when he threw
snowballs at one of Ahern's predecessors.


Following last year's Saint Andrews Agreement, Paisley indicated
he could work with Sinn Fein if they accepted the Police Service
of Northern Ireland's authority.


This apparent shift of emphasis has prompted angry opposition
from some within the DUP.


And the party's latest apparent move on accepting to form a
power-sharing executive with Sinn Fein, albeit in their own time,
means voters could yet see "Doctor No" convert into "Doctor Yes."

