

Segolene Royal, the Socialist Party (PS) candidate who shot to
political stardom thanks to a highly personal campaigning style,
has lost much of her shine since the start of the year but still
sees herself as on course to becoming France's first woman
president.


The 53 year-old former environment minister took the country by
storm last year, emerging from nowhere to win the PS nomination
over two senior party heavyweights and posing a serious challenge
to right-wing contender Nicolas Sarkozy.


But since January her standing has been eroded by a series of
gaffes, signs of dissent inside her own camp and a less-than-
triumphant election manifesto launch. PS insiders are fearful she
could even be beaten in the April 22 first round by the centre
candidate Francois Bayrou.


Royal's rise owed much to her image as a woman operating outside
of the traditional party structure. Voters initially gave a warm
response to a politician who seemed willing to break taboos --
calling for "boot camps" for young offenders for example and
"popular juries" to assess elected officials.


In fact her political background was strictly conventional. After
attending the elite National Administration School ENA, she was
cherry-picked by socialist president Francois Mitterand's cabinet
director and spent six years as an Elysee adviser.


In 1988 she was elected to the National Assembly and four years
later had her first -- brief -- cabinet post at the environment
ministry. In the socialist government of 1997 to 2002 she was
junior minister for education, then the family.


Royal's breakthrough came in the regional elections of 2004 when
she wrested control of the Poitou-Charentes region from then
prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. After that she was marked by
the media as a "woman-to-watch."


One of eight children of a military officer from Lorraine in
northeast France, Royal is the partner of PS leader Francois
Hollande -- with whom she has four children.


Elegant and immaculately turned out -- last year she was voted
the world's sixth sexiest woman in a French magazine -- she is
also articulate, outspoken and believes profoundly in the mission
to create a new contract between politicians and the public.


However detractors say she is an authoritarian with -- in the
words of PS dissident Eric Besson -- "an ultra-personal
conception of power." Critics on the right say that the manifesto
speech of February 11 was nakedly left-wing  and stripped away
any pretence of a Tony Blair-style "third way."

