

Striker Kevin Kuranyi ensured Germany stay top of their Euro 2008
qualifying group with two headed goals either side of half-time
as his side poached a 2-1 win over the Czech Republic on
Saturday.


Schalke 04 striker Kuranyi bagged his 16th and 17th international
goals to  give Germany a three-point lead at the top of Group D
over second-placed joint rivals the Czech Republic and Ireland
following the deserved win in Prague.


The 25-year-old struck on 42 minutes when a well-placed header
beat Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech and he repeated the feat on 62
minutes when he headed midfielder Bernd Schneider's cross home.


Czech striker Milan Baros managed a consolation goal on 76
minutes after he deflected a shot past Germany's Jens Lehmann
which wrong-footed the Arsenal goalkeeper, but it was too little,
too late.


"We deserved the win," said Kuranyi. "We kept them under a lot of
pressure and the team played well as a unit."


Germany captain and Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack was
pleased with the win as his side face Denmark at home on
Wednesday night in a friendly.


"It was a good performance," he said. "We controlled the game in
the first half and although it became quite tight after they
pulled back a goal, we still deserved the win."


Unbeaten with seven wins from eight games under his stewardship
since taking over from Jurgen Klinsmann after last year's World
Cup, Germany coach Joachim Loew was delighted with the three
valuable points away from home.


"This was an important and deserved win," he said.


"The team played very well and showed plenty of intelligence in
their build-up. The defence was rock solid and we barely gave the
opposition any chaces, so we have to be very happy.


"It was very important to go 2-0 up to give us a cushion, Kevin
(Kuranyi) was highly motivated and had a superb game."


Germany created the best chances throughout with Ballack linking
well with midfield partner Bastian Schweinsteiger which tested
the home side's defence in the early stages.


Ballack created the best chance in the opening 20 minutes when
his free-kick was charged down, but he managed to chip over the
defence and Schweinsteiger failed to connect with the ball.


And Bayern Munich's Lukas Podolski, voted Best Young Player of
last year's World Cup, forced Cech into a good diving save after
he connected with a powerful shot on 25 minutes.


The threatened breakthrough finally came in the 42nd minute when
Kuranyi rose above his marker and headed the ball just inside the
post. Podolski hit the crossbar moments later.


The hosts pushed hard for an equaliser after the interval and the
best chance fell to Tomas Rosicky, who hit his volley with some
force into the waiting arms of Arsenal team-mate Lehmann on 55
minutes.


But Kuranyi made sure of the win for Germany when he slipped his
marker and met Schneider's cross to claim his second goal of the
game just after the hour mark.


Baros gave the Czechs some hope when he deflected Jan Polak's
long-range shot past Lehmann on 76 minutes as the home side piled
on the pressure in the closing stages, but it was not enough to
threaten the result.

