

England's chances of reaching the Euro 2008 finals suffered
another serious setback when they were held to a goalless draw
with Israel here on Saturday.


Having kicked off in third place in group E, Steve McClaren's
side badly needed a win to get their qualifying campaign back on
track and boost the flagging morale of their increasingly
disillusioned supporters.


Instead, they suffered the ignominy of being jeered off the pitch
by their own fans for the third time in four matches as the
Israelis claimed the point that was the least their efforts
deserved.


Israeli coach Dror Kashtan confounded predictions that he would
instruct his side to keep things tight behind a solo striker by
deploying Toto Tamuz as virtually an out-and-out left winger.


The surprise selection appeared astute as the Nigerian-born
forward immediately set about unsettling his marker, Phil
Neville, and he might have given Israel a 3rd-minute lead, firing
over after intercepting Rio Ferdinand's lethargic pass across the
front of the penalty area.


Yossi Benayoun's mazy run into the area provided further
discomfort for the England back four and over quarter of an hour
had elapsed before the visitors conjured up some indication of
their own threat.


A poor first touch cost Andrew Johnson the opportunity to make
more of Phil Neville's low cross and Wayne Rooney could not get
enough power behind his header after Aaron Lennon had made his
first forray to the byline and delivered a well-judged chip to
his team-mate.


A neat flick from Johnson on the edge of the area offered Rooney
a second opportunity but his attempt at a chip was shanked high
over the target.


England's best chance of the opening period quickly followed.
Johnson held the ball up well on the left of the box, found
Gerrard who, in turn, played Frank Lampard in behind the back
four but the Chelsea midfielder was denied by Dudu Awat's speed
off his line.


As the half-hour mark approached, Benayoun teed up Tamuz 20 yards
out and the striker's low drive forced Paul Robinson to get down
smartly to his right to save.


A minute later, the striker was agonisingly close to giving
Israel the lead, his header from Ben Shushan's cross flying
inches over.


The frustrating pattern of the match for England continued beyond
the interval with Pini Balil going close with a shot on the turn,
ten minutes after the restart.


The hosts soon started to tire however and England began to
generate the chances they had been denied for the first hour.


Owen Hargreaves had a shot well-saved by Awat before Lampard and
Johnson sent headers fractionally wide of the target following
good work by, firstly Lennon down the left, then Gerrard on the
opposite flank.


John Terry outjumped the Israeli defence to meet a Lampard corner
with a header that looped tamely on to the top of the bar and
Awat produced another good block to deny Defoe seven minutes from
the end.


Those near misses were not enough to appease the 5,000-strong
contingent of England fans, who finished the match alternating
chants of "what a load of rubbish" with the taunt "you don't know
what you're doing."

