

One woman was killed and dozens more injured Sunday when a
7.1-magnitude earthquake rocked Japan's main island of Honshu,
sparking a brief tsunami alert, officials said.


Meteorologists issued the tsunami warning for the Noto peninsula
on the west coast of Honshu facing the Sea of Japan (East Sea)
after the quake, which struck at about 9:42 am (0042 GMT).


It was lifted about two hours later, after only small waves hit
the coast, the Japan Meteorological Agency said.


"We have confirmed one death following the earthquake, but we
need more time to get further information, including the victim's
identification," said a spokesman for the police department in
Ishikawa prefecture.


National broadcaster NHK reported that the victim was Kiyomi
Miyakoshi, 52, who died after being hit by a block of stone.


Dozens of people were taken to hospital for treatment, local
media reported.


More than 20 buildings collapsed in the city of Wajima, located
on the peninsula, Jiji Press said.


In the city of Nanao, officials said they had received reports of
a fire and a ruptured water main, but no reports of casualties.


NHK reported that phone service in the affected area had been
disrupted.


The epicentre of the quake was located about 300 kilometres (200
miles) northwest of the capital Tokyo, where Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe rushed to his office for an update on the situation.


"I ordered respective government departments to obtain
information about damage and to do their best to assure the
safety of local residents," Abe told reporters.


The government, which has set up a special earthquake information
office, was to dispatch a team of inspectors to assess damage in
the area, top government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a press
conference.


The National Police Agency sent a team of 400 rescuers from
nearby Aichi, Gifu, Fukui and Niigata prefectures.


"We don't know what the situation is like there yet, but the
officers will conduct relief and rescue operations," said a
police spokesman.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures
about 20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes, which
frequently jolt Tokyo and other major cities.


The country prides itself on having one of the world's most
accurate systems for assessing earthquakes and predicting
tsunamis.

