

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will unveil Sunday a declaration
aimed at restoring public confidence in the future of the
European Union, as it marks the 50th birthday of its founding
treaty.


At a working dinner of EU leaders late Saturday, Spain won the
right to have the fight against illegal immigration included in
the so-called "Berlin Declaration."


The document, prepared by EU representatives behind closed doors,
is about two pages long and is written in simple language devoid
of the jargon typical of EU documents.


It is divided into three sections, with a preamble.


It praises the EU's achievements, notes its common values and
looks to the future, amid the institutional chaos caused by the
failure two years ago of the planned constitution.


It will be signed in the German capital by Merkel, whose country
holds the rotating EU presidency, European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso and European Parliament President Hans-Gert
Poettering.


Leaders of the 26 other EU countries will not add their
signatures.


Written on behalf of "We, the citizens of the European Union ..."
it contains most of the following:


ACHIEVEMENTS


Among the successes since the signing of the Treaty of Rome on
March 25, 1957, peace and prosperity are noted. It also
highlights the single market and the euro common currency.


VALUES


The declaration mentions freedom, tolerance, solidarity, the rule
of law and security, as well as inalienable rights and equal
opportunity, as values that the Union aspires to.


CHALLENGES


These include preserving Europe's "social model", energy policy,
climate change and the fight against organised crime, violence,
racism and illegal immigration.


CONSTITUTION


The EU's moribund constitution will not be explicitly mentioned,
but the text will refer to the need for the bloc to find a
settlement to its institutional woes before 2009.


It says the Union is "united in our aim of placing the European
Union on a renewed common basis before the European Parliament
elections in 2009".


ENLARGEMENT


The draft makes no clear reference to enlarging the bloc to
include more countries, only the word "openness" refers obliquely
to it.


RELIGION


No mention of religion will figure in the declaration, despite
conservative pressure, including from the pope on Saturday, to
have some reference to it.

