

Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes his team's impressive
83-run victory over bitter rivals South Africa could be the key
to securing a third successive World Cup title.


"It's a big win for us and we now move on," said Ponting after
his team's win which meant they carry an extra two points in the
Super Eights.


"We have been saying how important it is and we are delighted to
be taking those points and a pretty healthy run rate through with
us as well."


Man-of-the-match Matthew Hayden hit the fastest century in World
Cup history with a 66-ball ton, while Michael Clarke (92) and
Ponting (91) guided Australia to 377-6, their highest total in
the competition's history.


In reply, South Africa raced to a 160-run opening stand between
AB de Villiers (92) and captain Graeme Smith (74) before being
bowled out for 294 with two overs to spare.


"I expected them to play that way. I've been confident all week
that our batters would do a good job. I knew they'd make a big
score, they've already played a couple of games and knew the
conditions well, so I knew we'd post a big total," said Ponting
after another run festival at the compact Warner Park ground.


"We've been excited about this game and we have gone and played a
really good game," added Ponting, whose team now face the West
Indies at Antigua on Tuesday in the opening match of the second
round Super Eights series.


"They are a very dangerous team, they are on home soil, they
should know these conditions very well and they have great crowd
support from all over the Caribbean.


"It starts now. It's recovery day Sunday and we make sure we get
our game right for Tuesday. Every step you take in this
tournament becomes more and more exciting."


Ponting said it was important to strike a blow against South
Africa who deposed his team as world number one on the eve of the
tournament.


"The last few times we have been challenged, we haven't performed
at our best, but we really waited for something special which
came in the form of a run out which changed the game," said
Ponting of de Villier's dismissal which derailed their opponents.


"The way we executed that first breakthrough was terrific. We
just hung in there and our fielding was good. I thought (Brad)
Hogg and (Shaun) Tait through the middle were very good for us,
and once we got a bit of a sniff we were all over them and went
in for the kill."


Left-arm spinner Hogg finished with 3-61 and pace bowler Tait
returned figures of 2-61.


Ponting said Shaun Pollock, who endured a miserable time with the
new ball,  was targetted.


"Some of our guys thought they were able to target Shaun, and if
you take him down that puts a lot of pressure on the other
bowlers," said Ponting of the former South Africa captain who
conceded 83 runs in his ten wicketless overs.


Ponting also said he was not surprised at Jacques Kallis's snail-
paced 48.


"That's pretty much the tempo of most of his one-day innings, I
think he's more of a worker and a grinder of the ball than a lot
of the other players."


Ponting said he was not worried about regaining the world number
one spot.


"It's no more satisfactory than any other except that it's the
World Cup and it's a big game for us. We're not worried about the
rankings. We've got an opportunity if we play well in the next
couple of games to reverse that ranking round once again," he
said.

