

Francois Bayrou, who has emerged as a surprisingly strong
challenger in the presidential race, is a former teacher who
believes France must jettison the "prehistoric" left-right
political divide.


The 55-year-old leader of the Union for French Democracy (UDF)
has reaped spectacular success by offering a "Third Way"
alternative for voters unhappy with Socialist Segolene Royal and
right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy.


Described as the "neither/nor candidate," Bayrou is proposing the
creation of a national unity government made up of moderates from
the left and right, a platform that his rivals have dismissed as
unworkable.


Born into a farming family in the Bearn region of southwest
France, Bayrou makes much of his rural roots, carefully
cultivating his image as a country boy.


He lives to be photographed driving a tractor on the family farm
in his native Pyrenees village of Borderes, where he raises
thoroughbred horses.


Bayrou entered politics in 1979 under the wing of President
Valery Giscard D'Estaing, whose UDF party was a coalition of pro-
European and Christian Democrat groups offering a centre-right
alternative to the Gaullism of Jacques Chirac.


He was first elected to parliament from his Pyrenees region in
1986 and served as education minister between 1993 and 1997 in
governments led by members of Chirac's Rally for the Republic
(RPR) party.


During his tenure as education minister, Bayrou was forced to
back down on education reform when one million people took to the
streets in 1994 to protest a plan to fund private schools.


In 1998 he became the UDF's president and made his first run at
the presidency in 2002, winning 6.8 percent of the vote.


A stiff test came the same year, when a majority of UDF deputies
defected to the newly-created Union for a Popular Movement (UMP)
-- today headed by Sarkozy. Bayrou refused to give up his
independence and held on to a rump of 30 MPs.


Married at the age of 20, he combined teaching Latin with
farmwork after his father died in an accident. As a young man he
overcame a stutter by reciting poetry in front of a mirror.


A father of six and a practising Catholic, Bayrou has also
written a best- selling biography of King Henri IV, who succeeded
in uniting the nation at the end of the 16th century wars of
religion.

