

From his office overlooking the Detroit River, United Auto
Workers union chief Ron Gettelfinger is watching the American
dream slip away for the blue-collar workers he represents.


The UAW, having led sit-ins and strikes in past decades, was
largely responsible for winning factory workers comfortable,
middle-class lives.


But as the US auto industry struggles through the most painful
period in its history with nearly 790,000 jobs lost since 1999,
Gettelfinger is seeing that dream slip through his fingers as
plant after plant is closed.


"It's not a Big Three market any more," said Sean McAlinden, an
analyst at the Center for Automotive Research. "It's a lot more
dynamic market."


Gettelfinger has little to hope for when he begins contract talks
with the Big Three automakers in July except try to keep most
benefits for remaining workers.


Ford Motor Company posted a record loss of 12.7 billion dollars
in 2006. DaimlerChrysler is mulling the sale of its struggling
Chrysler Group. And while General Motors may have turned a corner
by posting its first quarterly profit in nearly two years, its
troubles are still far from over.


Some blame the union, contending the rich pension and health care
benefits that Gettelfinger's predecessors fought so hard for
decades ago have created an untenable financial strain.


The union, which represents 640,000 active US workers and 500,000
retirees, counters that automakers could afford these benefits if
they hadn't surrendered much of the US market to Asian rivals and
would design cars consumers want. But it also blames
globalization and US government policies.


"In the real world, those of us who move metal every day know
that GM, Ford and DaimlerChrysler are not competing on a level
playing field with the Asian and European automakers,"
Gettelfinger said last September at the Detroit Economic Club.


"Toyota's remarkable success over the past 30 years is a tribute
to its engineering, manufacturing and marketing prowess -- no
doubt about it. But does anyone honestly believe that Toyota
hasn't been helped over the years by Japan's industrial policy,
trade practices, government-funded health care and retirement
systems?" he added.


An athletic man with a carefully trimmed mustache who skips
drinks with the boys for time with the family, Gettelfinger has
trumpeted unions as the only viable voice for working people in a
country that has seen a steady erosion of living standards for
all but the very rich.


He took the helm in 2002 at the UAW, which gained notoriety for
leading sit-down strikes of the 1930s that eventually led to auto
workers getting some of the most generous benefits for blue-
collar workers in America. These included the first employer-paid
health plan for US industrial workers.


Gettelfinger, who has a degree in accounting, said recently that
he is willing to make compromises but not necessarily concessions
in upcoming contract talks.


"I'm optimistic," Gettelfinger said in a recent interview.


"We're not going into these negotiations in a concessionary mode.
Look at the sacrifice our members have made and the things we've
done to help these companies," he said. "Our membership has got
expectations, too."


Gettelfinger has faced growing dissent among UAW members who
reject company claims.


"The UAW should hold auto companies accountable for the
commitments that they have made to current workers and retirees,"
said Jonelle Sayles, a retiree from Flint, Michigan, in a recent
e-mail circulated by dissidents.


"The auto companies should not be allowed to force cuts on
workers and retirees for bad decisions that the executives have
made."


But analysts say Gettelfinger is doing the best he can in trying
circumstances. He managed to get Ford to award a 500-dollar bonus
to workers in exchange for lifting his objection to bonuses for
executives.


From his seat on the DaimlerChrysler supervisory board, he
mounted a strong, though ultimately unsuccessful, bid to stop
DaimlerChrysler from having China's Chery Automotive build
Chrysler vehicles in China for export.


He refused to grant Chrysler the major health-care concessions
given to General Motors and Ford because he didn't think workers
would approve, union officials said privately.


"Nobody would have dealt himself these cards," Harley Shaiken, a
labor expert from the University of California, told AFP.


"But he's played them about as well as he could," Shaiken said,
adding that one of Gettelfinger's successes has been to keep the
union core intact despite the tumult around him.


"He's had a steady hand and he has a vision of where he wants to
go."

