

A late Nicolas Anelka strike saved France blushes on Saturday as
they grabbed an unconvincing 1-0 Euro 2008 qualifying win over
lowly Lithuania.


The strike from one of France's most controversial players with
just under twenty minutes remaining keeps Raymond Domenech's side
second in Group B, equal on 12 points with surprise leaders
Scotland who beat Georgia 2-1 earlier.


The temperature was icy both on and off the pitch after a racist
banner was unfurled by Lithuanian fans in the stands, targetting
France's coloured players, and stating "Welcome to Europe".


On a far-from-perfect pitch the game got off to a srappy start
with neither side able to hold onto the ball long enough to
construct.


Lithuanian captain Tomas Danilevicius, however, was the first to
take a chance ten minutes into the encounter but sent his strike
bobbling wide.


France started to turn the heat up in attack with Lyon's Florent
Malouda and Sidney Govou looking dangerous on the flanks, however
a handful of squandered chances left the game goalless.


Anelka found himself infront of goal on the 24th minute
stretching his foot out to angle the ball goalbound but keeper
Zydrunas Karcemarskas did well to spread himself and parry the
ball away.


Lithuania, unable to play their game, resorted to lofted balls
upfield but France's World Cup rearguard, Willy Sagnol, Lilian
Thuram, William Gallas and Eric Abidal had matters in hand.


France found their stride in midfield on the half hour mark but
the team ranked number four in the world by FIFA were
unconvincing in attack and could do nothing to break the deadlock
against their 76th-ranked opponents.


Lithuania took advantage of France's frustration with a quickly-
taken free kick in the dying minutes of the first half that sent
Marius Stankevicius into the box for the shot, however
Stankevicius couldn't keep his strike low enough and fired it
into the crowd.


France were desperately looking for solutions before the break
and eventually were caught off-guard by a late surge from the
home nation.


As the second half got underway Lithuania came out of the blocks
firing.


Stankevicius blasted his effort from the right of the box sending
it flashing past the rear post.


While Mantas Savenas only just failed to find the target
following a great ball in from Stankevicius.


Anelka should have put the vistors ahead on 61 minutes but the
Bolton hitman fired the ball over the bar from close range at
which point Domenech substituted Govou for Marseille's Djibril
Cisse for another option up front.


A sigh of relief could be heard around the French camp on the
73rd minute when Anelka finally found the back of the net.


The striker weaved his way from the left and into the shooting
range unleashing a tricky low ball into the bottom corner to
achieve his ninth goal for Les Bleus.


Gallas came close however to scoring an own goal two minutes
later when Igoris Morinas rocketed the ball into the box only for
it to deflect off the Arsenal defender who send the ball skimming
past the near post and a wrong-footed Gregory Coupet for a
corner.


Lithuania fought bravely until the end but lacked the finishing
touches to draw level.


With only the top two teams from each group advancing to the Euro
2008 finals, France face a tough final match in the Ukraine in
November.


Ukraine are third in Group B with nine points.

