

An unusual SOS that has gone out from French ecologists may not
initially go down well with gardeners, who are being asked to
leave weeds well alone.


But it's all in a good cause -- to save disappearing butterfly
species.


Having set up the first butterfly 'refuges' in northwestern
France in 2004, a Brittany-based association is now urging
gardeners to do their bit for butterflies and biodiversity by not
cutting back their brambles or nettles.


"We are asking people to leave several square metres of wild
grass, brambles, nettles in their garden... which caterpillars
love," Jeremy Allain, of the Vivarmor association behind the
initiative said.


Garden-lovers are also encouraged to put down "plants which are
rich in nectar like clover, sage or daisies to feed adult
butterflies," he said of the project, which has prompted interest
across France.


"'Spotless' gardens with a well-mown lawn are true deserts for
butterflies which lack refuges, while wild gardens can also be
very pretty," he enthused.


Gardeners are also urged to avoid chemically treating their
gardens.


About 100 hectares (250 acres) of butterfly refuges have now been
set up under the project over three years, Allain said. "All our
supporters, including many families with children, have told us
they see more butterflies than before."


It aims to stop butterflies vanishing. A study in the
northwestern Cotes d'Armor departement found a 25-percent loss of
butterfly species since the 1920s, due to widespread use of
pesticides and the disappearance of fallow land.


Gardeners who commit to the charter available by the Internet
receive a sign to identify their butterfly refuge.


But not only does the scheme aim to save butterflies from
disappearing, it also seeks to tackle the wider problem of
maintaining biodiversity.


"We take the butterfly because it's a good ambassador" for making
people think about the problem of biodiversity, Allain said. "The
idea is that everyone can do something concrete, it's not just a
matter of the state or of associations."


Vivarmor has already been approached by interested individuals in
other parts of France, and even in neighbouring Belgium.


The Noe Conservation group, which since last spring has been
undertaking a national registration of lepidopterans too has
mobilised its network to create refuges, to be known as
'butterfly gardens', across France.


"The goal is to make people change their behavior in their
garden," said Karine Langloys, in charge of biodiversity
education for the association.


"France has 13 million gardeners responsable for a quarter of the
pollution of surface water and subterranean tables. Gardens,
size-wise, are four times bigger than natural reserves. It's a
real stake."


In a bid to help track the fate of the country's butterfly
population, the National Museum of Natural History and the Noe
Conversation group a year ago launched a scheme to get people to
count common species in their gardens.


So far 14,695 people have signed up to the Internet-based scheme,
which involves pinpointing 28 common species in one's garden once
a month. "We now have a basis enabling us to study the evolution
of butterfly species year after year," said Benoit Fontaine, in
charge of collecting the data for the museum.


Similar schemes are already in place in Britain and The
Netherlands.


Meanwhile, several local community groups have already instigated
steps, such as in Tregueux, near Saint-Brieuc in Cotes d'Armor,
which has set aside butterfly refuges in some of its green
spaces.


"We are letting spontaneous vegetation grow, often considered
weeds," local environment official Alain Jouan said.


And while he acknowledged the initiative did not always go down
too well with local residents, he noted a fall in the use of
chemical products and in clearing, to the benefit of the
environment as well as the town's coffers.


"Protecting butterflies may seem odd, but it's to protect
biodiversity and therefore man," he concluded.

