

Striker Kevin Kuranyi ensured Germany stay top of their Euro 2008
qualifying group with two headed goals either side of half-time
for a 2-1 win over the Czech Republic on Saturday.


Schalke 04 striker Kuranyi bagged his 16th and 17th goals for his
country to open a three-point lead at the top of Group D over
their second-placed Czech rivals and put the Germans in pole-
position to qualify after a deserved win.


The 25-year-old struck just before half-time on 42 minutes when
his well-placed header beat Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech and he
repeated the feat  on 62 minutes when he headed midfielder Bernd
Schneider's cross home.


Czech striker Milan Baros managed a consolation goal on 76
minutes after he deflected a shot past Germany's Jens Lehmann
which wrong-footed the Arsenal goalkeeper.


With the sides neck-and-neck at the top of Group D - Germany
topped the group only by virtue of their superior goal difference
thanks to last September's 13-0 hammering of San Marino - both
sides attacked from the start.


Germany created the best chances in the opening exchanges with
Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack linking well with Bastian
Schweinsteiger which tested the home side's defence.


German captain Ballack had the best chance in the opening 20
minutes when his free-kick was charged down, but he managed to
chip over the defence and Schweinsteiger failed to connect with
the ball.


And Bayern Munich's Lukas Podolski, voted Best Young Player of
last year's World Cup, forced Petr Cech into a good diving save
after he connected with a powerful shot on 25 minutes.


The break through finally came in the 42nd minute when Kuranyi
rose above his marker and headed the ball just inside the post
and Podolski hit the cross bar moments later as Germany went into
the break 1-0 up.


The hosts pushed hard for an equaliser after the interval and the
best chance fell to Tomas Rosicky who hit his volley with some
force into the waiting arms of Arsenal team-mate Lehmann on 55
minutes.


But Kuranyi made sure of the win for Germany when he slipped his
marker and met Schneider's cross to claim his second goal of the
game on 62 minutes.


Baros gave the Czech's some hope when he deflected Jan Polak's
long-range shot past Lehmann on 76 minutes as the home side piled
on the pressure in the closing stages, but it was too little, too
late.

