

US Vice President Dick Cheney assured political allies late
Saturday that an early withdrawal of US forces from Iraq would
not be allowed, despite efforts by Congress to impose a deadline
on US combat operations there.


The comments followed an unprecedented vote Friday in the House
of Representatives, which called for a pullout of US combat
troops from Iraq by August 31, 2008 -- regardless of whether
Iraqi security forces are ready to take over from them or not.


President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the measure. But the
threat has called into question the future of a 124-billion-
dollar emergency funding bill, to which it is attached.


Lacking line-item veto power, Bush can reject bills only in their
entirety.


In light of this circumstance, the president acknowledged earlier
Saturday that if the bill that finances the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan is not passed by April 15, the military "will face
significant disruptions."


Cheney for his part used his late night appearance before the
Republican Jewish Coalition in Manalaplan, Florida, to reassure
allies that the current standoff will not result in a precipitous
US withdrawal from Iraq.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that has gone into fighting the global war on terror, and
result in chaos and mounting danger," the vice president declared
to enthusiastic applause. "And for the sake of our own security,
we will not stand by and let it happen."


He did not explain what steps the administration could take if
the supplemental bill dies in partisan bickering. But he
expressed confidence in the final outcome, stating "We will
complete the mission, and we will prevail."


Quoting extensively from Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, the
vice president reiterated his conviction that an US early
withdrawal from Iraq would be "a complete validation of the Al-
Qaeda strategy."


And he painted a dire picture of the Middle East and other parts
of the world descending into chaos and tyranny, if radical
Islamists are allowed to prevail.


"Having tasted victory in Iraq, jihadists would look for new
missions," he predicted. "Many would head for Afghanistan and
fight alongside the Taliban. Others would set out for capitals
across the Middle East, spreading more sorrow and discord as they
eliminate dissenters and work to undermine moderate governments."

