

World Cup organisers warned on Saturday of potential chaos at
Super Eight matches here next week because the Providence Stadium
is still not ready despite years of planning.


The local organising committee and World Cup chiefs are already
at loggerheads over the 25-million-dollar venue.


On Friday, World Cup organisers relieved the local organising
committee of control of the ground, with a British company taking
charge in an effort to salvage the project ahead of next
Wednesday's match between South Africa and Sri Lanka.


Amongst the myriad of problems at the venue, which is the only
one on the South American mainland, are failures to provide
security and crowd control turnstiles, poor accreditation
facilities and video boards.


Power shortages are also expected to blight the Indian-built
venue.


Local media have also reported that Queen's Park Oval in
Trinidad, which hosted first round games, and Jamaica's Trelawny
Stadium, where warm-up matches were played, are on stand-by to
stage the six matches planned for Georgetown.


"We are objecting to them invoking the Host Venue Agreement
because we think it was unwarranted and while I cannot prevent
them, we are co-operating with them fully," chief executive of
Guyana's local organizing committee, Karran Singh, told AFP.


In a strongly worded e-mail to Singh, and Guyana Sports Minister
Frank Anthony, the World Cup's senior legal counsel Derek Jones
said the decision to take over responsibility for completing
remaining aspects of the venue followed concerns that were raised
during several weeks about their "failure to proceed
satisfactorily or effectively" in relation to the Host Venue
Agreement (HVA).


"Your failure to deal adequately with these and other areas has
resulted in Cricket World Cup 2007 being unable to have
confidence in your ability to deliver a fully functional
operating Super Eight venue in accordance with your contractual
obligations."


Singh assured World Cup organisers that they were working to
ensure that the matches go-ahead.


"We have done what we believe in our opinion is the best we can
do to host the World Cup... we will have the World Cup matches
here in a few days," Singh said.


But Jones said the World Cup organisers had "lost confidence in
the ability of the local organising committee to provide proper
site management for the project up to and through the tournament
period".

