

Andrew Flintoff marked his return to the England team with two
wickets as they bowled out Kenya for 177 in Saturday's winner-
takes-all World Cup match at the Beausejour Cricket Ground


Kenya captain Steve Tikolo, dropped on 52, top-scored with 76
before he was expertly yorked by Flintoff.


No other batsman made more than the 17 of Jimmy Kamande, who put
on 39 with Tikolo for the seventh wicket.


Flintoff's Lancashire team-mate James Anderson led England's
attack with two for 27. Paul Collingwood took two for 33 and
Flintoff two for 35.


This was Flintoff's first match since he was stripped of the
vice-captaincy and dropped from England's 51-run victory against
Canada on Sunday after being one of six players fined for late
night driking following the six-wicket defeat by New Zealand.


In a game where victory for either side would see them qualify
alongside Group C winners New Zealand for the Super Eights,
Tikolo decided to bat first on winning the toss despite the
overnight rain which may have freshened the pitch and reduced the
match to a 43 overs per side contest.


Anderson, swinging the ball at a lively pace, made an early
breakthrough when Ravindu Shah, who'd scored 71 in Tuesday's
148-run defeat by the Kiwis, was bowled off stump for four by a
delivery that kept low.


Anderson struck again when opener Maurice Ouma (13) tried to loft
him over mid- on only to be caught there by Collingwood.


Kenya were 35 for two in the 11th over but Tikolo responded with
two fours in as many balls off Anderson.


And he then off-drove fourth seamer Ravi Bopara straight down the
ground.


But runs weren't coming so freely at the other end and fast
bowler Sajid Mahmood, on his World Cup debut after replacing Liam
Plunkett, had Tony Suji (14) driving early and England captain
Michael Vaughan took a smart catch at short-cover.


Then 73 for three became 74 for four when Tanmay Mishra chopped
on for nought against medium-pacer Collingwood.


Tikolo, on 29, then drove Collingwood fiercely with the ball just
flicking the bowler's fingernails on its way to the boundary.


With Kenya 99 four off 23 overs, Vaughan switched from pace to
the left-arm spin of Monty Panesar.


Three balls later England had another wicket. Non-striker Collins
Obuya was run out by a distance, after Tikolo failed to respond
to his call, when Bopara threw from short third man to Panesar.


Flintoff then got in on the act when the fast bowler had Thomas
Odoyo lbw for four, Kenya 112 for six in the 26th over. Kamande
was fortunate not to exit the same way next ball.


And Tikolo, who completed a 58-ball fifty with seven fours,
should have been out to Flintoff on 52 when a miscued drive was
dropped by Ed Joyce at mid-on.


England did strike when Kamande, heaving across the line, was
bowled by Collingwood to leave Kenya 151 for seven as the innings
petered out.

