

With just over half of their qualifying campaign remaining, Alex
McLeish is not getting carried away with Scotland's chances of
qualifying for the 2008 European Championships.


However the newly-installed national team manager believes their
2-1 victory over Georgia at Hampden will allow his men to play
with renewed confidence when they face world champions Italy in
Bari on Wednesday.


Substitute Craig Beattie's 89th minute winner on Saturday means
the Scots stay top of their European Championship qualifying
Group B with four wins from five games.


France are in second place, also on 12 points from five matches.


Ukraine sit in third on nine points from four matches while Italy
have seven points from four matches.


Although Italy will be expected to rule the roost when the Tartan
Army arrives in Bari, McLeish admits Saturday's win will allow
his men to take a fearless approach to the game.


"There is no doubt it was an important game for us on Saturday.
It was a key game as it was number five for us in Group B and we
have now won four and only lost one," said McLeish.


"The target was to get three points and to have achieved our aim
makes our work last week all worthwhile.


"We can now go to Italy on Wednesday and be as positive as
possible."


Scotland have seven matches left to play in which to achieve
their aim of finishing first or second in the group - and
grabbing one of the two places which would qualify them for the
2008 finals in Switzerland and Austria.


McLeish added: "We need to keep our feet on the ground as there
is still a long way to go but we have given ourselves a real
confidence boost and a bonus going in to the Italy game."


Scotland had taken the lead in the 11th minute.


Gary Teale collected the ball wide on the right looked up and
curled in a cross towards the penalty spot where Rangers striker
Kris Boyd was lurking.


The Rangers forward threw himself at the ball to send a powerful
header into the corner of the net beyond Georgia goalkeeper
George Lomaia.


However, in the 40th minute the visitors were level.


Giorgi Demetradze received the ball wide on the left, twisted
away from Scotland right-back Graham Alexander before swinging in
a perfect cross for former Rangers forward Shota Arveladze to
head past goalkeeper Craig Gordon from six yards.


With time running out it appeared Scotland would have to settle
for a share of the points before their super sub struck in the
89th minute.


As Georgia attempted to clear from another Scotland attack Gary
Naismith sent a looping header back into the penalty area which
was flicked on by Kenny Miller into the path of Beattie.


The Celtic striker took a touch before sending a low left-foot
shot into the net to the delight of the Tartan Army making up the
majority of the 50,850 crowd.


Beattie was thrilled with his contribution and admitted he had
achieved a boyhood ambition.


He said: "It's every young boy's dream to one day play for their
country and I've definitely fulfilled a dream by scoring the
winner for my country at Hampden in such an important match."


McLeish was equally delighted with Beattie's goal but admitted he
thought the player may have been hiding an injury at training
until he spoke with his friend, and former Aberdeen teammate,
Celtic boss Gordon Strachan.


He said: "It was a great time for Craig to score his first
international goal.


"I thought Kris Boyd was beginning to tire and it was time for
some fresh legs. Craig had a a good February for Celtic and
impressed me in the B international.


"I spoke to Gordon Strachan about him during the week and he gave
me some good information about him which was very helpful in
picking Craig and he had a good game.


"I was worried about his running action in training and I
wondered if he was carrying a wee injury but Gordon assured me
that's just the way he runs."

