

Australian David Hicks takes his first step toward trial by a
special military tribunal on Monday, so far the only US "war on
terror" detainee to be formally charged under a new law
authorizing  war crimes trials of "enemy combatants."


Hicks, a 31-year-old Muslim convert who has become a cause
celebre in his native Australia, is to be arraigned on Monday at
the controversial US military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba on a
charge of "material support for terrorism."


His case opens a new phase in the years-long legal battle that
has played out in US federal courts and in world public opinion
over whether terror suspects can detained indefinitely and tried
outside the US legal system.


Hicks has been held for more than five years after his capture in
Afghanistan in late 2001, and his arraignment is set to pave the
way for a summer trial, the first by military commission.


It comes as the White House said it was unlikely that the base
would be closed before President George W. Bush leaves office in
January 2009.


Asked whether the facility, a lightning rod for international
criticism from rights groups and even US allies, would close
before Bush's term ends, spokesman Tony Snow replied: "I doubt
it. No, I don't think it will."


Snow confirmed a New York Times report that new US Defense
Secretary Robert Gates pushed late last year to shut the
facility, arguing it damaged US credibility and that any trials
would be tainted by its notoriety.


"He had some concerns. And the legal issues were resolved and he
deferred to the attorney general on the legal issues," said Snow.
"But it did not reach the president."


Hicks was first charged in 2004, but those accusations were
scrapped when the US Supreme Court ruled last year that military
commissions designed to prosecute Guantanamo detainees were
unlawful. Hicks had pleaded not guilty.


The US Congress then responded by passing a law in October that
authorized military commissions and stripped US courts of
jurisdiction to consider challenges of the trials or the
detention of war on terror suspects in Guantanamo.


On Friday a federal judge denied a defense request for an
injunction against the legal proceedings at Guantanamo, saying it
lacked jurisdiction to do so under the new Military Commissions
Act.


Pentagon officials said the ruling by US District Judge Colleen
Kollar-Kotelly cleared the way for Hicks' arraignment on Monday
before a military judge at Guantanamo Bay.


"The charge will be read. He's expected to enter a plea," said
Commander Jeffrey Gordon, a Pentagon spokesman, adding Hicks
would be allowed to make a statement.


The military judge then has 120 days to assemble a military
commission to try him and advise lawyers of the trial schedule.


Hicks' US military lawyer, Major Michael Mori, has said the
charges against his client are "made up" and there is no basis
for him to be held.


"It's disgusting that he has spent five years in Guantanamo for
made-up charges," Mori told reporters in Australia.


"Now they are doing it again. They are repeating history by
creating a new crime after the fact and trying to apply it to
David retroactively," he told Australian Associated Press.


The charge sheet alleges that Hicks, who was once dubbed the
"Australian Taliban," underwent weapons, guerrilla warfare, urban
tactics and surveillance training at a series of Al-Qaeda camps
in Afghanistan in 2001.


It said he was in Pakistan visiting a friend when the World Trade
Center and Pentagon were attacked, but returned to Afghanistan
and joined up with Al-Qaeda in southern Kandahar where he was
given an AK-47 automatic rifle.


He was in Kandahar when the US bombing campaign began on October
10, 2001, and then moved north to Kunduz where he spent about two
hours on the front lines outside the city before it collapsed, it
said.


After hiding out in Kunduz for three weeks, Hicks sold his AK-47
and hired a taxi to take him to Pakistan, but was captured by the
US-backed Northern Alliance, according to the charge sheet.


The charge also alleges that while in Afghanistan, Hicks provided
"material support or resources to be used in preparation for, or
in carrying out, an act of terrorism."

