

Tiger Woods stretched his lead in the World Golf Championships CA
Championship to a comfortable four shots Saturday, then spent the
evening watching buddy Roger Federer win his match at the Sony
Ericsson Open.


While rainy weather in the Miami area hasn't held up play in the
golf tournament at Doral, Federer admitted the long delays at the
Tennis Center at Key Biscayne made him wonder if Woods would want
to stick to plans to attend the match.


"I called him up and said 'Hey, it's raining here. You maybe want
to go back to your ship,'" Federer said.


"And he said, 'No, I'm going to come out and see you and wait
around.'


"So it was very nice," concluded Federer, who didn't make Woods
wait for long as he wrapped up a 6-4, 6-3 victory over big-
serving US youngster Sam Querrey to reach the third round.


A friendship has blossomed between the two sports greats since
they met at last September's US Open tennis championships.


Federer said Woods' visit to the Miami tournament had been
planned well in advance, and it came after Federer walked with
Woods during a practice round at Doral on Wednesday.


"I'm happy he comes out during a tournament," Federer said. "I
don't know how golfers are, if they're more serious than us
tennis players. But I went out to see his practice, too, and it's
great that he comes to watch tennis. I think it's a great honor
for our sport."


Federer admitted that when Woods first attended one of his
matches - at the US Open last year - he was nervous. Now, he
said, it's not so intimidating to have the 12-time major golf
champion looking on.


"It was way more difficult at the US Open," Federer said. "I
didn't know Tiger very well. He was sitting first row in my
players' box, so I was like, 'Oh, I better play well tonight.'


"So today was no problem. He was sitting far back, and it was
much more easy. But now I know him, too. So it's more relaxed.
But I was a bit tense at the US Open."


Federer said he would watch Woods' progress on Sunday on
television. Chances are, he'll see his friend pull off another
victory.


Reigning British Open and PGA Championship winner Woods has taken
12 of 23 prior WGC starts and has won 38 of 41 times when leading
after 54 holes, never losing a lead of more than a stroke in 22
opportunities.

