

Tiger Woods opened with an eagle on his way to a four-under par
68 here Saturday to seize a four-stroke lead after the third
round of the eight million-dollar World Golf Championships CA
Championship.


Woods stood on 11-under par 205 after 54 holes in his final
tuneup for next month's Masters, with US compatriot Brett
Wetterich second on 209 and Australian Nick O'Hern, who ousted
Woods at last month's World Match Play, third on 210.


Reigning British Open and PGA Championship winner Woods has taken
12 of 23 prior World Golf Championship starts and has won 38 of
41 times when leading after 54 holes, never losing a lead of more
than a stroke in 22 opportunities.


"I'll just go out there tomorrow and take care of business,"
Woods said. "I just go out there and compete, go out and play."


Woods opened with an eagle on the par-5 first hole, answered his
only bogey of the day at the sixth with birdies at seven and
eight and then added another birdie on the 16th for good measure,
ignoring the gusts of a blustery day.


"I'm rolling the ball on line," Woods said. "I've got the speed
right which I didn't the first day."


World number one Woods is making a double title defense this
week. He has won the US PGA event at Doral the past two years and
last year in England won this WGC event when it was the American
Express Championship.


Woods will seek his third major in a row and the 13th of his
career in two weeks at the Masters, the first major championship
of the year, at famed Augusta National Golf Club.


Wetterich, a Ryder Cup teammate of Woods last year, fired a 67 to
edge past O'Hern - who fired a 66 - and earn the right to play
alongside Woods on Sunday in quest of his second PGA title.


"I just tried to go out and play some good golf, put myself in
spots where I wasn't making big numbers," Wetterich said.


South African Ernie Els was in position to join Woods in the last
group but took a double bogey at the 18th hole to join a group in
fourth at 211.


Els, who had five birdies in the first 10 holes, pulled his tee
shot left on the 18th and then hit a tree, leaving him behind a
grove of trees for his third shot, which he slammed across the
fairway into a right-side bunker.


Els blasted his fourth shot over the green and made an up-and-
down to save a double bogey.


Joining Els on 211 were Fiji's Vijay Singh, Aussie Aaron
Baddeley, Denmark's Thomas Bjorn and Americans Tom Pernice and
Charles Howell.

