

Spain's spluttering start to their Euro 2008 campaign continued
when they made heavy weather of beating 10-man Denmark 2-1 in
Real Madrid's legendary Santiago Bernabeu stadium here on
Saturday.


The capacity 75,000 spectators were treated to 15 minutes of
brilliance late in the first half, which saw goals from Spain's
Fernando Morientes and David Villa, before enduring a horribly
frustrating second period.


After an even opening 20 minutes, the pendulum seemed to swing
decisively to Spain's advantage when Niclas Jensen was sent off
for his second yellow in as many minutes.


The FC Copenhagen left back clumsily hacked down Morientes and
then followed it up with a wild foul on Villa.


Villa almost put Spain ahead six minutes after the dismissal when
his header from a David Silva cross went whistling past the post.


Morientes then broke the deadlock with a well taken goal after 34
minutes, swerving around Liverpool's Daniel Agger on the edge of
the six yard box before slotting the ball past Denmark goalkeeper
Thomas Sorensen with his left foot.


The goal saw the Valencia striker, who can count Real Madrid and
Liverpool among his former clubs, become the third highest scorer
in a Spanish jersey.


It was also Morientes' first international goal for 17 months and
he elicited deserved cheers when he was substituted after 62
minutes.


In injury time at the end of the first half, David Villa evaded
the Danish off- side trap and broke free to run unhindered into
the box before hammering the ball past Sorensen from 10 metres.


The stage seemed set for Spain to run riot and score several more
goals in the second half but it was not to be.


Danish coach Morten Olson reorganised his troops and instead the
Spanish fans were silenced three minutes into the second half
when Michael Gravgaard rose high above the Spanish defence to
head the visitors back in contention.


The game then became a scrappy affair as an unambitious Denmark
tried to absorb the pressure and salvage an equaliser on the
break.


Emphasising how the standard of play had degenerated, there were
six bookings after all the goals had been scored.


"At least we won this game and we are still in contention for
Euro 2008," said Villa, admitting that once again Spain had
failed to impress despite getting three points.


Spain move up to fourth place in Group F with only the first two
to progress to next summer's finals.


Sweden lead the way in Group F with 12 points, with Northern
Ireland second on 10 points after their 4-1 win over
Liechtenstein earlier on Saturday.


Demark lose their unbeaten record and slip to third with seven
points with Spain one point and one place in arrears.


Spain coach Luis Aragones was in serious danger of losing his job
if his team had lost their third Euro 2008 qualifier in a row but
should keep his position for the moment.


The controversial 68-year-old will be at the helm when Spain face
Iceland in Palma de Mallorca on Wednesday.


Nevertheless, there could still be some hard thinking by the
Spanish federation about his future ahead of the next round of
matches in June.

