

Nigeria is rich in oil but short of energy, and at night the
lights are out and darkness reigns for most of the 140 million
inhabitants.


Hundreds of small and medium-scale businesses are being strangled
by an almost total lack of power in a country which is the sixth-
biggest exporter of oil in the world.


President Olusegun Obasanjo, on assuming office in May 1999,
promised to put an end to the perennial energy crisis.


His probable successor, Umaru Yar'Adua, says the same, but
louder, insisting that if elected in April, he would declare a
national "energy state of emergency."


For several weeks now, from Kano in the north to Port Harcourt in
the south, power supplies have deteriorated so much that
Nigerians count the minutes of electricity provided by the Power
Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) rather than refer to power
cuts.


PHCN, which is the successor to the defunct National Electric
Power Authority (NEPA) and is being prepared for privatisation,
is widely referred to by frustrated Nigerians as either "Problem
Has Changed Name", "Poverty Holding Company of Nigeria" or
"Please Hold Candle Now".


The last evident effort by PHCN to respond was by installing pre-
paid meters in some parts of Lagos. But power is so short, they
cannot be read.


The national president of small and medium scale enterprises
(SME), Ike Abugu, sounded a note of alarm recently when he said:
"The situation is critical, the SMEs are the worst victims.
Beside the change of name, nothing has changed. Or if there is
one, it is in a wrong direction," he said.


The official News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) has reported that
despite investment of millions of dollars by the federal
government in the energy sector in recent years, the nation has
to manage on output of 1,000 megawatts of electricity.


"South Africa supplies 45,000 megawatts for a population of 40
millions", Abugu said.


Yar'Adua, the presidential candidate for the governing party in
the April poll, has promised production of at least 30,000
megawatts of electricity by 2011.


Energy minister Edmund Daukoru has announced 5,500 megawatts for
May 29, the date a new president will assume office.


"Ridiculous", objected the independent newspaper The Guardian,
asking how this could be achieved in two months even though it
had not been possible in eight years.


Ironically, Nigeria sells power to its neighbours: Benin, Ghana,
Niger and Togo. For Abugu, "this attitude of 'big brother' defies
comprehension."


Although the government is often quick to blame vandals who
damage oil and gas pipelines, others point to mismanagement and
endemic corruption in the power sector.


"Where have all the billions gone?" asked an editorialist in the
Sunday Guardian, who said that in six years, the PHCN had
received 244 billion naira (about two billion dollars) to tackle
the power problem.


Early this year, Nigerians suffered from a serious shortage of
fuel which lasted for several weeks


Consumers have resorted to the press to voice their anger.


"The PHCN is a disaster. I spend not less than 50,000 naira
(about 390 dollars) on fuel to run generator every month and PHCN
sends crazy bills for the electricity I did not consume," a Lagos
student said.


For weeks, Lagos, one of the biggest cities in the world, has
reverberated almost around the clock to the sound of generators
and been polluted by the black smoke they emit.


But presidential adviser Foluseke Shomolu accused Nigerians
recently of "wasting electricity", saying they left lights on,
even in daylight.

