

Mexico's Lorena Ochoa fired a 3-under 69 here Saturday to take a
four-shot lead into the final round of the 1.5 million-dollar
LPGA Safeway International.


The 25-year-old 2006 Player of the Year had a 54-hole total of
14-under 202, and was four strokes in front of South Korean Jeong
Jang (68) and Norway's Suzann Pettersen (69).


After two days of stormy weather, Ochoa returned from an
overnight suspension to complete four holes of a second-round 64
- the lowest round of the tournament - on Saturday morning.


While she couldn't find the same form on the greens in the
aftgernoon, she did make birdies at the first, fourth and 18th
holes in a bogey-free third round.


"It has been a long day but a really good one," Ochoa said. "I
set up a lot of chances this afternoon but couldn't make many
putts. Hopefully, they will all fall tomorrow."


"I'm in good shape, and I'm okay. I do want to go back and have a
nice dinner and go to bed early. But good thing it's early. It's
not too late. I can't wait to have a big dinner and go and
relax."


A six-time winner in 2006, Ochoa has two top-10 finishes in three
starts this season.


Jang was all over the course early, posting three birdies and two
bogeys on her first five holes. She settled down thereafter,
carding three birdies with


no bogeys the rest of the way.


Pettersen, who won the French Women's Open in her first season as
a pro, also had an eventful day. After playing a bogey-free round
Friday, she signed a card that had eight birdies and five bogeys,
including one on No. 17.


"It's never fun to start with a bogey in the middle of the
fairway," Pettersen said. "But I just thought, 'There's plenty of
holes and there's plenty of chances.' So, I bounced back with
three great putts. After that, I just kept going, and I had a few
more bogeys than I had yesterday. But I seem to kind of bounce
that back with birdies, as well."


Pettersen was the 2001 Rookie of the Year on the Ladies' European
Tour but has been plagued by injuries during her four years in
the United States.


Britain's Catriona Matthew, who was second after the second
round, slipped into a tie for fifth after an erratic 2-over 74
that included a three-putt bogey at the last hole.


World No. 1 Annika Sorenstam birdied the final two holes for a 69
and was alongside Matthew, eight strokes behind Ochoa.


"I'm honestly very pleased with the finish," Sorenstam said. "I
feel like I'm playing very well. When they turn the stakes up,
there may possibly be some bogeys. Other than that, I mean, I'm
playing so well. I'm pleased about that."

