

A double from Barcelona star Ronaldinho inspired Brazil to a 4-0
rout over Chile in a football friendly here on Saturday being
used as a warm-up for this summer's Copa America.


Brazil coach Carlos Dunga was able to try out for the first time
the strike force trio of Kaka, Ronaldinho and Robinho whom he is
planning to use during their Copa America defence in Venezuela in
June.


And the experiment proved positive as Ronaldinho opened when he
converted a controversial penalty awarded after 16th minutes for
a foul by defender Alex von Schwedler on Gilberto Silva.


Brazil added their second afer 31 minutes when Daniel Alves
escaped down the right and passed to AC Milan's Kaka, who
finished off.


Ronaldinho - who it has been suggested is trying to get out of
playing in the Copa because he is exhausted after almost two
years of incessant football - doubled his account after 50
minutes with Bayer Leverkusen's Juan adding a fourth after 59
minutes.


"People are going to think that because we scored four goals
we're going to win the Copa America or that we beat Chile because
they played badly," said Dunga.


"But I don't think that the score reflected the reality of the
match which was very tough and challenging," added Dunga, who
captained Brazil to the 1994 World Cup trophy.


The result was a blow for Chile coach Nelson Acosta's whose side
had surprised the five-time world champions by dominating the
first ten minutes.


But after scoring Brazil soon got into their stride.


Chile had their best chance after 38 minutes when a Luis Figueroa
cross from the right found Gonzalez, only for his header to be
diverted out.


Second half substitute Valdivia lifted the Chileans but they
could not find a way past the Brazilians.


The match finished in confusion after a pitch invasion by several
young Brazilian fans who rushed onto the pitch in extra time to
celebrate with their team.


"I don't believe that it was the fault of organisers," said
Dunga.


"There were many security officials. But it happens that people
come on to the pitch to have their minute of glory."

