

Republic of Ireland manager Steve Staunton insisted the best is
still to come from his side after they kept alive their hopes of
qualifying for Euro 2008 with a 1-0 win against Wales.


Staunton had been under increasing pressure after Ireland's
mediocre start to their qualifying campaign, but Stephen
Ireland's goal at Croke Park on Saturday ensured they remain in
their race to top Group D despite an unconvincing display.


Another victory at home to Slovakia on Wednesday is vital if
Staunton is to convince the critics, who include his former
international team-mate Roy Keane, that he is beginning to make
an impact on a team in transistion.


Staunton, a former Ireland and Liverpool defender, has got off to
a shaky start to his first managerial role, but a second
successive qualifying win has at least given him some breathing
space.


He admits Ireland have to improve on their showing against Wales
and said: "We beat them. That's it. We failed to keep the ball
when we got it in the second half which made it difficult for
ourselves.


"But all we could do was win the game. We've done that and we'll
now prepare for Slovakia.


"It gives us another platform to improve on this performance
going into Wednesday night. I know the next performance will be a
lot better."


But, while Staunton is convinced his team is on the up, he now
has to cope without the two players who combined to break the
deadlock against Wales.


Ireland is likely to miss the Slovakia match after being forced
off with a groin injury in the second half, while Robbie Keane
will be suspended after picking up a booking for a foul on Carl
Fletcher.


It was Keane's superb 39th minute pass that allowed Ireland to
run clear on goal, dribble around Wales goalkeeper Danny Coyne
and finish well from an acute angle.


The goal was an historic one for Ireland - both the player and
the country - as it was the first scored at Croke Park,
traditionally a venue for hurling and Gaelic football, which was
hosting a football match for the first time.


Wales rarely threatened to mount a fightback as they slumped to
their third defeat in four qualifying matches and are already
certain to miss out on yet another major tournament.


Welsh coach John Toshack was furious his side's first half
display and he admitted they have no chance of reaching the
finals.


"That first half was as bad a 45 minutes as we have had since I
became manager," he said. "In that first period we were just not
good enough.


"We improved after the break but it was still difficult to see
where the goals would come from.


"There was no fight where it mattered, we just didn't create
enough to worry them. From my point of view I know I have to work
harder to get across what I want from the players.


"And as far as qualification is concerned, that looks over for us
now."


Wales host San Marino on Wednesday, but it is Ireland's Slovakia
clash that will prove far more important to the make-up of a
tight qualifying group that also includes Germany and the Czech
Republic.

