

Australia's largest city will be plunged into darkness for an
hour on Saturday in an attempt at a world first blackout to raise
awareness of global warming, organisers say.


A successful switch-off could then be copied by major cities
around the world in a drive to reduce the greenhouse gas
emissions blamed for climate change, according to international
conservation group WWF.


The lights will go out in landmark headquarters buildings in
Sydney's central business district, on the iconic Harbour Bridge
and Opera House, and in tens of thousands of suburban homes.


"Earth Hour", which begins at 7:30 pm (0930 GMT) on March 31, has
been planned for 10 months by WWF in partnership with city
authorities, businesses and a major newspaper group.


"We've been astounded at the level of support we have got," WWF
Australia communications director Andy Ridley told AFP.


A thousand businesses have signed up, including many of the top
blue-chip companies on the Australian stock market -- and even
McDonald's is going to turn off its "Golden Arches" signs, he
said.


"The first commitment is lights off for an hour, and then as we
go forward we're looking to try and set ourselves a target of
reducing emissions by five percent over the next year."


Scientists link dangerous global temperature increases to the
greenhouse effect, in which gases emitted by burning fossil fuels
to produce energy trap heat in the atmosphere.


Last month Paris conducted a similar campaign, dimming lights for
five minutes in the French capital and turning off the lights of
the Eiffel Tower.


Twenty-seven thousand Sydney households have also registered
their support online, though many times that number are expected
to participate in the blackout.


The only lights deliberately left on will be those connected with
public safety, such as streetlights.


Top restaurants have signed up and will serve diners by
candlelight, with some offering meals using local produce rather
than ingredients flown or shipped in from abroad.


"We're not asking people to go and live in a cave and eat cold
beans; that can't be the way we approach the problem of global
warming," Ridley said, dismissing some early criticism that
business would suffer.


"The idea of this is there are simple things that are putting
emissions up into the air and we can do simple things to start
cutting back on them, but that doesn't mean you close your
restaurant."


As for those at home who are faced with an hour of darkness on a
Saturday night, "we hope people will be catching up with their
neighbours and having barbecues.


"It's really about moving away from the despair that global
warming seems to produce and starting thinking of what can we do
about it."


Ridley said that if successful, the Sydney blackout would be a
world first.


"I think people have tried it before, but nobody has successfully
done it and I don't think anyone has tried it it on the scale we
are trying.


"If it's as successful as we hope, we hope to take it around the
world and do this in every major city we can get to join us."


Australia, already the driest inhabited continent on earth, is
expected to be particularly hard hit by global warming and has
already claimed a world first in fighting climate change.


The government announced last month that traditional incandescent
light bulbs would be phased out by 2010 in favour of the more
fuel-efficient compact fluorescent bulbs.

