

Ex-prostitute Melanie has a tough, straight-talking way about her
when she tells about the hundreds of clients she had in her seven
years in Germany's red-light districts.


But her tired blue eyes light up and a disarming smile spreads
across her face when she talks about her new line of employment
-- as a geriatric care worker thanks to a new EU-funded job
retraining programme.


"I have three older gentlemen in my care and we make house calls
to shower and dress them. They give me an entirely different kind
of respect compared to what I am used to. Now I am paid and I
tell the clients what to do," she grinned.


"My boss has said he is very happy with me and wants to keep me
on after the internship is over."


Melanie, a 34-year-old mother of two, is one of 74 women taking
part in a pilot programme called ProFridA helping sex workers and
victims of violence make a fresh start in basic nursing care or
sales jobs.


One of the project coordinators, Gisela Zohren, said that
although many prostitutes think they do not have viable job
skills, they in fact bring a wealth of experience.


"In patient care you need to be good with people, you are often
dealing with naked bodies, you tend to people's needs -- it is
really the logical next step," said Zohren, 57, herself a former
dominatrix and a 20-year veteran of the sex trade.


Although some employers are informed of their new recruits'
previous job if they agree to work with ProFridA, their new
clients and co-workers are kept in the dark to prevent any come-
ons or rude jokes.


Over coffee and cookies at the prostitute help centre
Mitternachtsmission (Midnight Mission) in the western city of
Dortmund -- a nearly 90-year-old institution -- Melanie and
Zohren say the European sex industry has changed for the worse
over time.


"The new girls have no taboos," Melanie said, referring to an
influx of eastern European prostitutes after the European Union
took on 10 new countries in May 2004.


"They brought in kissing -- which was never allowed before -- and
French without a rubber (oral sex without a condom), they would
even pull clients away and say 'she'll do it for 100 euros (132
dollars) -- I'll do it for 60.'"


She said that with a surge in the supply of hookers combined with
steady or declining demand, 30 euros (40 dollars) for sex was not
uncommon here in the Ruhr Valley rust belt, often with "extras"
thrown in for free.


"There's a so-called honour among prostitutes -- you don't take
part in price dumping," Zohren said.


In addition to the falling income of many sex workers, ProFridA
is also a dramatic illustration of Germany's rapidly shifting
demographics.


With the median age climbing and the baby boomers becoming
pensioners, Germany currently has a shortfall of about 6,400
elder care givers, even with around 10 percent unemployment,
according to the federal labour agency.


Prostitution is legal in Germany and in 2002 sex workers became
entitled to state health benefits and gained the right to sue
clients in court who refused to pay the agreed price for services
rendered.


Yet despite the ostensible improvements in the industry for
prostitutes, the job still takes a heavy physical and
psychological toll.


"You sell your soul along with your body," Melanie said.


"The paedophiles want you to play the little girl, there are the
guys who want to act out rape scenes -- it really cuts to the
heart."


Melanie said she knew few call girls who wanted to keep
practicing the world's oldest profession.


"There are some who have a passion for it but it's a tiny
minority," she said.


Gerlinde Iking of the Mitternachtsmission said most of the women
bring with them a host of personal problems from mountains of
debt to broken families.


"If no one is there to catch them when they fall, many will
quit," she said.


Launched in Germany's most populous state North Rhine-Westphalia
last year, ProFridA received 1.1 million euros in funding from
the regional government and the European Social Fund.


Chief coordinator Rita Kuehn of the Protestant charity Diakonie
Westfalen said the idea had begun by linking up existing
institutions working to help women at risk regain control of
their lives.


"We created a network with people from the labour market, from
job training and with employers and then with the homes for
battered women and prostitutes and looked at how we could provide
them with optimal support," she said.


"The women are accompanied, advised and coached all the way
through," she said, adding that such measures had kept the drop-
out rate at zero and were even helping some women start their own
businesses.


The programme, which runs over 20 months, provides a clear
incentive for women to get out of the sex industry but it does
not require them to leave the profession to get help.


"That is a very important point," said Renate Noebe of Madonna, a
prostitutes' aid group and member of the ProFridA network based
in the heart of the red-light district in nearby Bochum.


As the neon lights out the window flash "Table Dance," Noebe
explains that a well-educated, self-confident prostitute with
other marketable skills is much more likely to walk away from the
trade.


Noebe coordinates the profiling and coaching of the participants
to pinpoint their personal strengths, and runs the basic
qualification programme that encompasses language training,
computer skills and simple accounting.


She said the demand for the first ProFridA programme, which was
based largely on job retraining for prostitutes developed at
Madonna in 1998 and in other regional help projects, had been
overwhelming.


The next group would be able to start in January 2008 if the
financing from the EU and North Rhine-Westphalia is extended.
Meanwhile the organisers are hoping that the federal labour
agency will eventually integrate some of ProFridA's principles in
its standard job retraining programmes.

