

British serial blunderer Mister Bean is back on the big screen
after a 10-year absence in a new film about a mishap-strewn
journey from Britain to the Cannes Film Festival in France.


"We always felt that there was another movie to be made with
Mister Bean, but it would be a very different film from the first
one," said Rowan Atkinson, Bean's creator and the star of the new
blockbuster, "Mister Bean's Holiday."


"If we were going to make a sequel, it would have been logical to
make it eight or nine years ago rather than now, but it just took
time to get round to thinking about it."


The disaster-prone anti-hero, who rarely speaks and communicates
largely through burbles and facial expressions, has proved hugely
popular worldwide.


His first film, 1997's "Bean: The Ultimate Disaster Movie",
netted 260 million dollars (195 million euros), which made it one
of the most ever successful British films at the time.


But Bean first became a hit thanks to 14 half-hour television
shows first aired in Britain in 1990, and which were subsequently
sold to 245 countries around the world.


Before that, Atkinson, who is now thought to be worth some 60
million pounds (88 million euros, 118 million dollars) used the
character in a one-man show in London's West End theatre district
in 1981.


Bean is a more human character in his film appearances than on
television: less egotistical, concerned about the mayhem which he
leaves in his wake and even able to speak a few words.


Following his trip to Los Angeles in the first film, Bean's
destination in the second is Cannes, south-east France, where he
has just one goal: to see the beach.


His voyage of discovery takes place after he wins first prize in
his local church's tombola -- an all-expenses paid trip to
Cannes, plus 2,000 pounds pocket money and a video camera with
which he films the entire trip.


While the trip to Paris on the Eurostar passes without a hitch,
the adventure starts at a railway station in the French capital.


Here, he asks a passenger -- a Russian filmmaker and Cannes film
festival jury member -- to film him as he boards his train.


Bean jumps on the train but it pulls away with the filmmaker's 10
-year-old son on board -- and the director himself left stranded
on the platform.


After a tricky start, the pair work together to reunite father
and son. But fate, of course, has other ideas.


The pair are stuck on the train with no money or tickets. They do
not speak the same language and are being hunted by police,
because the boy's father believes he has been kidnapped.


After dozens of twists and turns, Bean finally reaches Cannes and
realises his ambition to see the beach.


The film climaxes with a musical finale featuring a famous French
song, Charles Trenet's "The Sea".


"Mister Bean's Holiday" is released across Europe from this week.

