

Mauritanians go to the polls Sunday in an historic presidential
election as the country seeks to move beyond years of
dictatorship and tainted votes.


The run-off features candidates who have both been imprisoned
under previous regimes. The winner will be the northwest African
desert nation's first democratically elected leader since the
country's independence from France in 1960.


The second-round vote will be the final stage in Mauritania's
gradual return to civilian rule after a bloodless coup led by a
military junta in August 2005 ended more than two decades of
dictatorship under Maaouiya Ould Taya.


A third of the Islamic republic's 3.1 million people are eligible
to vote.


The election pits former cabinet minister Sidi Ould Cheikh
Abdallahi against longtime opposition politician Ahmed Ould
Daddah.


Abdallahi, 69, is supported by a powerful coalition of 18
political groups once loyal to Taya.


Daddah, 65 and an ardent critic of Taya, is supported by other
opposition groups. An economist by profession, he was minister of
finance when his half brother Moktar Ould Daddah, the country's
first post-independence leader, was in office.


Abdallahi won 25 percent of the vote in the first round of the
election held on March 11, while Daddah finished with 21 percent.


On Friday, Abdallahi said because his coalition has a majority in
parliament, he would be able to accomplish things quickly.


"We can move the country forward with the largest coalition
possible," he said, presenting himself as the consensus
candidate.


He also rejected accusations of voter fraud made by his
opponents, saying "that culture is not ours. A presidency won
through fraud -- I don't want it."


Daddah spoke about not returning to the past, denouncing "groups
who looted the country for 20 years and want to continue to do
it."


"But a new hope is born," he said, saying his chances for winning
are strong.


Rulers in Mauritania have traditionally stormed to office through
military takeovers. They have often tried to lend credibility to
their regimes by organising elections, but the votes have
inevitably been discredited by fraud allegations.


The first round election this month was conducted peacefully.

