

The talks over the possibility of self-rule in British-run
Northern Ireland were a landmark moment in Irish history, Irish
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern told his party conference here
Saturday.


"We gather at a landmark moment in Irish history," he told an
estimated 5,000 delegates in his presidential address to his
governing Fianna Fail party.


The final steps are there to be taken and I hope that they'll be
taken fairly quickly," he added.


If Northern Ireland's parties cannot agree on forming a power-
sharing executive by midnight Monday (2300 GMT), then the
assembly is due to be axed.


An Anglo-Irish financial aid package would also be dropped and
there would be indefinite rule from London, with an input from
Dublin.


Ahern made no reference to possible difficulties with the Irish
and British governments' plans for a revived administration in
Belfast on Monday.


The governments want the Protestant conservative Democratic
Unionists (DUP) and the Catholic socialists Sinn Fein -- the
political wing of violence-renouncing paramilitaries the Irish
Republican Army (IRA) -- to agree a power-sharing executive.


Ahern insisted that voters had given a clear message in the March
7 elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly.


"They want the parties to work together in government. Their
views must be respected," he said.


"All of the key outstanding issues have been painstakingly
addressed."


His party had worked "long, hard and patiently" for peace in
Northern Ireland -- a "precious peace" based on equality that few
would have thought possible even a few years ago, he said.


"Northern Ireland is now a much better place. The Good Friday
Agreement (1998) addresses the valid aspirations of all the
people of this island.


"The agreement is the essential foundation for the Northern
Ireland of today and the future."


Ahern's speech on the theme "Leading Ireland Forward" was mainly
a rallying cry for a general election expected in May or June.


Ahern also told his party's 71st annual conference that if they
were returned for a third term they would implement further tax
cuts.


He also promised to increase state pensions, take a tougher line
against crime and boost spending on health and education.


"It is Fianna Fail who can be trusted with the peace and the
prosperity out of which the future of this extraordinary island
will be secured," he said.

