

You probably don't know Czech accountant Jana Tylova unless you
are a dedicated sudoku player, in which case she's no doubt your
hero.


The quiet, 32-year-old from a small industrial town in the
country's north will line up to defend her sudoku world title
starting Thursday, when the second annual global contest to
determine who's best at the brain-twisting number game kicks off
in the Czech capital.


"The competition is going to be tougher than last year," the
self-confessed sudoku addict said with a timid smile. In Italy in
March 2006, Tylova beat 87 rivals from 22 countries to take her,
and the world's, first sudoku crown.


This year, contestants from 32 countries will be trying over
three consecutive days to dethrone Tylova in the game with a
Japanese name, invented by a Swiss mathematician and popularised
by a judge from New Zealand.


For those unfamiliar with it, the challenge of sudoku is to fill
in nine blank squares in each of nine larger boxes, set three
across and three down in a grid, using the numbers one to nine
once only in each box, row, and column.


A logical mind is key to being good at sudoku, and, as with other
skills, practice makes perfect.


Tylova says she has always been fascinated by games of logic and
began doing crossword puzzles with her father when she was a
young child.


"It amuses me to find combinations and solve puzzles," she said.


Sudoku takes up much of her time outside of work, and her
vacations are often spent at competitions. She practices each
evening with her boyfriend, whom she met five years ago at a
tournament.


Her best times are "two minutes for simple grids and 14 or 15
minutes for more difficult ones" -- far better than the average
of between five and 30 minutes, according to sudoku websites.


The name "sudoku" comes from the Japanese characters "Su,"
meaning "number," and "Doku," meaning "single," but the puzzle
was developed by Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler in the 18th
century.


The game did not gain worldwide fame, however, until a retired
New Zealand judge named Wayne Gould latched onto it and turned it
into a multi-million-euro (dollar) industry at the end of the
1990s.


In Japan alone today, five monthly publications dedicated to the
number game have a circulation of nearly 600,000, according to
sudoku websites. The Internet is filled with sites offering
software, and mobile phone operators send grids to customers on
request.


In Tylova's own Czech Republic, the website of the sudoku
federation has some 2,000 hits a day.


The game's rise to global popularity probably has much to do with
its simplicity: basic logic is enough to complete an entry-level
grid.


But the game is considerably more difficult at world championship
level, where competitors race against each other to fill in a
grid as quickly as possible.


"Since there are always new grids with new variations, you have
to keep up-to- date," said Tylova, who trains by practising,
reading sudoku magazines and visiting websites.


Tylova said she will bring a small wooden horse, which her
boyfriend gave her, along to the sudoku championships for good
luck.

