

Steve McClaren has admitted England's goalless draw with Israel
was tantamount to a defeat after wins for group rivals Croatia
and Russia inflicted further damage on his side's chances of
reaching next year's Euro 2008 finals.


"We have drawn a game of football we should have won -- it feels
like a defeat," McClaren admitted at the end of a night that left
England in serious danger of failing to qualify for a major
tournament for the first time since the 1994 World Cup.


England had arrived in Israel badly needing a win to get their
qualifying campaign back on track and boost the flagging morale
of their increasingly disillusioned supporters.


Instead, they left with their collective psyche further scarred
by the ignominy of being jeered off the pitch by their own fans
for the third time in four matches.


McClaren flirted with outright criticism of his own players as he
lamented the failure to convert any of the chances his side
generated as Israel's energy levels dropped off towards the end
of the match.


"It's not good enough. We had enough chances but it either didn't
fall for us or poor quality, poor decisions or poor finishing
cost us. It's two points dropped."


England have now scored just one goal in their last five matches
- their worst run for 26 years.


"They packed their defence so it was always going to be hard,"
McClaren added in a claim that was not totally justified. "But we
have got to have better quality in front of goal when we get the
opportunities.


"We weren't ruthless enough. It's a concern and a worry, but I
would be more worried if we weren't creating chances and the
goalkeeper wasn't making saves."


The draw leaves England five points behind Croatia and three
adrift of Russia with only the top two in the seven-team group
advancing to the finals in Austria and Switzerland.


"We knew Israel would be difficult and a lot of people said a
draw would be a fair result," McClaren added. "We have still have
got seven games to go and we have to make sure we win (against
Andorra) on Wednesday and take four points from these two away
games.


"My job is to ensure we qualify and I'm still confident of
getting there. There are still enough games to play."


Israeli coach Dror Kashtan was pleased with the way his side had
neutralised England's big guns, with Wayne Rooney particularly
anonymous as half of a new- look strike partnership with Andrew
Johnson that failed to sparkle.


"It was part of our preparations to make sure that their main
players did not have any chances or influence on the outcome of
the game," Kashtan said.


"England put a lot of pressure on us in the second half and they
had chances, but overall I'm satisfied with the way we played.
However, it is not a good result for either of us."


Despite McClaren's emphasis on the way Israel defended, the home
side were actually far more positive than England for the first
hour of the match, thanks largely to Kashtan's unexpected
decision to play Toto Tamuz as virtually an out- and-out left
winger.


The Nigerian-born forward was involved in most of Israel's good
work in the first half, forcing one good save from Paul Robinson
before heading his side's best chance of the evening fractionally
over the bar.


England's chances before the interval were not quite as clear
cut, although Frank Lampard will have been disappointed not to
have produced a better finish after being played in behind the
Israeli back-four by Steven Gerrard.


Only when Israel began to tire after an hour did England have the
chances to claim the three points.


Owen Hargreaves had a shot well-saved by Awat before Lampard and
Johnson sent headers fractionally wide of the target following
good work by, firstly Lennon down the left, then Gerrard on the
opposite flank.


Jamie Carragher outjumped the Israeli defence to meet a Lampard
corner with a header that looped tamely on to the top of the bar
and Awat produced another good block to deny Defoe seven minutes
from the end.


Those near misses were not enough however to appease the
5,000-strong contingent of England fans, who finished the match
alternating chants of "what a load of rubbish" with the taunt
"you don't know what you're doing."

