

Pakistan's bookmakers say underground gambling groups are
unlikely to have been involved in the murder of national cricket
coach Bob Woolmer even though match- fixing plagues the sport.


Bookies told AFP that the groups had no motive to go after
Woolmer who was strangled to death a day after Pakistan were
knocked out of the World Cup following their loss to unfancied
Ireland.


Jamaican police have stressed they do not yet have any suspects,
but fingers are being pointed at the powerful betting and match-
fixing mafia that has become synonymous with cricket.


"It is true that match-fixing is still a problem and
international players from many countries are involved," a
leading bookmaker in Rawalpindi city said.


"But how would bookmakers benefit from the murder of a coach? We
don't understand," the bookie said on condition of anonymity.


Speculation has mounted since Woolmer's death last Sunday that he
was about to blow the whistle on match-fixing in a new book.


Another leading bookie, working in Rawalpindi and in the capital
Islamabad, claimed Pakistan's loss in the opening match against
the West Indies was fixed as well as the result in India's clash
with Bangladesh.


He also claimed Indian, Pakistani and South African bookmakers
paid large amounts of money to cricketers to try to swing the
result of matches.


But he said there was no information circulating in Pakistan's
many underground gambling dens to suggest Woolmer was aware of
the problem.


"It is possible that Woolmer had come to know of certain people
involved and they planned his murder, but as such we have no
information that bookmakers wanted to get rid of him or he was
posing any problems," he said.


Although gambling is banned in Pakistan, there are numerous
underground networks. In Rawalpindi and Islamabad almost 50 dens
exist, most of them set up in public call offices, jewellery
stores, video shops and shoe stores.


A top bookie based in the eastern city of Lahore told AFP that
information about matches that determined rates came mainly from
neighbouring India.


"Pakistani bookmakers do not have a very large network and their
operations are mainly dependent on bookies based in the Indian
city of Mumbai," he said.


Match-fixing scandals have erupted in both countries in recent
years, most notably embroiling former South African captain
Hansie Cronje who was taped by New Delhi police alluding to the
underworld's links with cricket.


In Pakistan, former captain Salim Malik was implicated in fix
allegations in the mid 1990s that ended his career.


Since Woolmer's death, claims have emerged from former cricketers
and criminals alike of cricket's links to match-fixing.


And British newspaper The Sun said the International Cricket
Council's anti- corruption unit was investigating unusual betting
patterns in Pakistan's defeat to the West Indies on March 13.


The tabloid said investigators were probing a theory that
Pakistan could still have qualified for the second stage by
beating Ireland and Zimbabwe but betting plans went awry after
Pakistan lost to Ireland.


Suggestions, however, that Woolmer was about to blow the whistle
on the pracice have been denied by his co-author, Ivo Tennant. He
told The Times newspaper on Saturday they could be "dismissed
unequivocally".

