

The UN Security Council Saturday slapped new sanctions on Iran
over its suspect nuclear program as the US warned the move would
leave the Islamic Republic even more isolated.


The council's 15 members unanimously adopted Resolution 1747, co-
sponsored by Britain, France and Germany, broadening UN sanctions
imposed on Iran in December for spurning repeated demands to
suspend sensitive uranium enrichment.


"The unanimous adoption of this resolution reflects the
international community's profound concern over Iran's nuclear
program," said Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry.


"We call upon Iran once again to comply fully with all its
international obligations," he said in a statement drafted by
security council members Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States, together with non-member Germany.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The six powers said they were proposing new talks with Tehran to
find a negotiated solution.


But Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki swiftly dismissed
the UN sanctions as "unlawful" and "unjustifiable actions"
orchestrated by a few of its members.


Washington warned Tehran though that it would find itself
increasingly isolated on the international scene.


"We are obviously very pleased by the strength of this
resolution. It is a significant international rebuke to Iran and
is a significant tightening of the international pressure on
Iran," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters.


He said European Union envoys would now try to prod Iran into
reconsidering its decision to continue with sensitive nuclear
activities.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and other EU diplomats
"would be in touch with the Iranian government in the days and
weeks ahead to see if they might reconsider their obstinate
refusal to renegotiate," he said.


Iran has repeatedly denied allegations that it is trying to
develop nuclear weapons, saying its uranium enrichment is purely
to help meet the country's energy needs. Uranium is the basic
material for both military and civilian nuclear programs.


The draft resolution was worked out last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- and Germany.


It builds on the December sanctions which included a ban on the
sale of nuclear and ballistic missile-related materials to Iran,
foreign travel restrictions on Iranians involved in sensitive
atomic and ballistic missile work and a freeze on their overseas
assets.


An annex to the new resolution details the diplomatic and
economic incentives which the six powers presented to Iran last
June to coax it into giving up uranium enrichment.


The vote comes amid deteriorating relations between Iran and
Western powers such as the United States and Britain.


Washington has toughened its tone against Tehran in recent
months, accusing it of fomenting sectarian unrest in Iraq.


Britain is also locked in diplomatic row with Iran, after 15
British navy personnel were seized by Iranian forces in the Gulf
on Friday.


Iran said on Saturday that the 15 had admitted under questioning
in Tehran to violating its territorial waters and rejected
demands from London for their swift release.

