

Preparations for next year's Beijing Olympic Games are running
smoothly but future bumps in the road include the route of the
torch relay.


Since the 1936 Games in Berlin, the torch relay has signalled the
countdown to every Summer Games, with runners carrying the flame
on a lengthy route to a cauldron in the host city that burns
during the world's largest sporting event.


Beijing's version could be the most ambitious yet. A team of
climbers are already in training to carry the sacred flame over
Mount Everest, the world's highest peak, with a test climb
planned for later this year.


Plans have also been touted to run the relay through Taiwan,
Beijing's long-time diplomatic foe.


So far Beijing has won praise for flawless Olympic planning but
some critics say that when it comes to the relay, organisers have
lost sight of their original goal of staging "a high-tech, green
and people's Olympics."


Hein Verbruggen, the head of the International Olympic Committee
(IOC) team of experts who are advising Beijing on the staging of
the Games, has praised China's organisational skills.


He recently described preparations for the August 8-24 Games next
year as "perfect", according to the organising committee known as
BOCOG.


Everything is ahead of schedule -- except the decision on the
torch relay, which was due to be made last year but was put off
until next month, when the IOC executive board meets in Beijing.


"I am sure that they will have a wonderful programme for the
torch. I am sure that is the same high quality as with the other
projects of the preparation," Verbruggen said.


But another IOC insider, without naming Beijing, said there was a
tendency on the part of organising committees to try to outdo
each other.


The Sydney torch relay in 2000 saw scuba divers carry the flame
in a sealed baton over Australia's Great Barrier Reef.


The Athens relay in 2004 circumnavigated the globe and took the
sacred flame to Africa and South America.


"Perhaps there is a temptation to try and outdo that," the
insider said.


A recent commentary in China's official Youth Daily said the
Everest plan should be revised.


China's Great Wall, a symbol of the nation's history and
civilisation, would serve as a better destination, it said.


Climbing the 8,848-metre (29,028-foot) high peak with the Olympic
torch and accompanied by camera crews presented an unacceptable
risk to life and the ecosystem of the Himalayan region, it added.


Chinese officials, however, insist that the relay will pass over
the world's highest peak although they may be forced to leave out
Taiwan.


Authorities on the self-ruled island are reportedly reluctant to
be included in the event on Beijing's terms, under which Taiwan
would be considered part of the circuit within mainland China.


Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province awaiting
reunification with the mainland, by force if necessary.

