

Brandishing bamboo staves and driven by radical Islam, dozens of
bearded madrassa students storm into DVD shops in Pakistan's
leafy capital and order them to close -- or else.


The scenes look more like Taliban-era Afghanistan where the harsh
movement's "Vice and Virtue" squads once spread terror, but they
are happening a few minutes' walk from the seat of the Pakistani
government.


Store owner Owais Dar said the morality patrols began in early
April and the government last week capitulated to the students in
a standoff over the kidnap of an alleged brothel owner.


"A group of students came and warned me to shut my business and
not to play songs from Indian and Pakistani films because it is
against Sharia (Islamic law)," Dar said at his shop selling DVDs
and video games in bustling Melody Market.


"How can these students stop us from running a business which our
own government has not even declared illegal?" he added.


Yunus Sheikh, whose movie shop in nearby Aabpara market was also
targeted on Sunday, said: "We are really scared -- it is nothing
but hooliganism. When we see these boys coming with their batons
we just close our shop."


"We are really fed up of such activities and our business is
suffering, even when we are not involved" added Mushtaq Shah, a
tailor in Melody Market.


On Thursday, about 600 Pakistani human rights activists rallied
to press for action against the "anti-vice" students, chanting
slogans and calling upon the authorities to "curb the rise of
extremist forces in the country that are promoting intolerance
and violence."


Officials blame the morality patrols on the pro-Taliban Jamia
Hafsa school -- a thorn in the side of the government since
January when female students seized a state-run children's
library in protest at plans to demolish some mosques.


The madrassa's burqa-clad girls hit headlines last week when they
abducted a local woman accused of running a brothel along with
her two female relatives, while their male counterparts captured
two passing policemen.


The policemen were freed after several hours in return for the
release by the authorities of two of the school's arrested
teachers.


Then the students paraded the humiliated woman -- also in a burqa
-- in front of the media to deliver a forced confession of her
sins. She later fled the city in fear of her life.


Abdul Rashid Ghazi, the school's vice principal, insisted that
the raids on shops on Sunday were not carried out by his students
and demanded a government inquiry into who carried them out.


However he admitted they had in the past "politely" asked traders
not to sell pornographic films and choose other jobs "which are
not repugnant to Sharia or teachings of the Prophet Mohammed."


Deputy information minister Tariq Azeem told AFP the government
would get tough on the school and on any Islamic vigilantes.


"The government will not tolerate such activities and the police
have been asked to arrest anyone who tries to harass
shopkeepers," Azeem said.


"There will be zero tolerance from now on for such actions as
Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz has already taken a very serious view
of the situation."


Shopkeepers however said that policemen who were present in the
capital's markets during Sunday's Taliban-style morality patrols
did not lift a finger to help.


Local newspapers have savaged the authorities for bowing to the
hardliners in the hostage crisis, saying that this would increase
the "Talibanisation" of this terrorism-hit South Asian nation.


A tide of extremism has buffeted Pakistan in recent weeks, not
helped by the fact that military ruler President Pervez
Musharraf, a key US ally, has been distracted by a political
crisis over his sacking of the country's top judge.


More than 200 people have died in recent battles between pro-
government tribesmen and foreign militants who took shelter in
Pakistan's tribal belt after the fall of the Taliban in
Afghanistan in late 2001.


Last week authorities slapped a curfew on a northwestern town
after clashes between security forces and Taliban militants who
were trying to recruit children to fight NATO and US forces in
Afghanistan.


Separately militants have blown up several DVD shops in
northwestern Pakistan and ordered barbers not to shave beards.


Shopkeeper Dar blamed the situation on peace deals signed by the
government with pro-Taliban tribes after bloody military
operations between 2003 and 2006.


Western officials have made similar criticisms in the past year,
saying that they pacts have allowed Taliban and Al-Qaeda
militants to regroup.


"The peace deals did not yield any results but encouraged
Islamists all over Pakistan," Dar said. "I wanted to expand my
business but after these threats I cannot even think of it."

