

An opening round that Tiger Woods hurriedly consigned to the
trash bin was one that most of his Masters rivals here Thursday
at Augusta National Golf Club would have loved to have taken.


Two strokes off the lead with two holes remaining, Woods made
bogeys at the 17th and 18th holes to settle for a one-over par 73
and a share of 15th place after round one of the year's first
major championship.


"I threw away a good round of golf," Woods said.


Woods sent his tee shots off into the right-side trees on each of
the last two holes and could not recover. On 18, he blasted from
the pines into a bunker and blasted beyond the hole, then missed
a long par putt.


Woods went to the practice tee in the twilight to work on his
swing after the round, determined to solve his woes before his
Friday morning tee time.


"I wasn't sweeping it very good. Pulled pretty good," Woods said.
"I've got to organize a few things. I had it right there. Then
threw it away."


Woods has won six of his past seven US PGA stroke-play events,
including a World Golf event at Doral two weeks ago that made him
the clear favorite to win his 13th major, third major in a row
and fifth green jacket here this weekend.


While heartbroken after squandering a chance to have been hot on
the heels of co-leaders Justin Rose and Brett Wetterich, Woods is
only four strokes back and won two years ago after opening with a
74 to share 33rd.


"Low is only 69 today," Woods said. "That's a pretty good round."


In fact, Woods has never broken 70 in the first round at the
Masters and has only been nearer the lead three times in 13
starts than he is now after 18 holes.


Woods averages 70.25 at Augusta in round two, 69.36 in third
rounds and 71 in final rounds. Should conditions remain cold and
dry as expected, that legacy could serve him well by the finish.


"It will be interesting this weekend with the course playing so
dry," Woods said.


Woods is a perfect 11-for-11 in majors when leading after 54
holes so expect another run to start the weekend, successful or
not.


And the pack ahead of him has fewer veterans with great history
in majors to challenge should Woods catch fire.


Rose was a last-week qualifier for Augusta and Wetterich is a
Masters newcomer. No debutante has won here since Fuzzy Zoeller
in 1979.


And no higher score has led the Masters after 18 holes since Jack
Burke's 71 in 1957.


David Toms, Rich Beem and Davis Love are the only players ahead
of Woods who have won majors and each of them has yet to follow
up their first triumph with a second title.


Also, none of those triumphs was over the undulating greens and
pine-flanked fairways of Augusta.


And if Woods has any doubt there would be rivals taking a 73, he
need look no further than defending champion Phil Mickelson on
76, US Open champion Geoff Ogilvy and world number two Jim Furyk
on 75, two-time US Open winner Retief Goosen on 76, Irishman
Padraig Harrington on 77 and three-time major champion Ernie Els
on 78.


One man's trash would be another's treasure.

