

Lurid newspaper headlines in Britain on Friday, after the UEFA
Cup match between Sevilla and Tottenham Hotspur, suggested that
English football fans had disgraced themselves again.


However, the analysis of Thursday's incidents in Spain which came
24 hours after 13 Manchester United fans were taken to hospital
after fighting between riual fans and police at Roma's Olympic
stadium in Italy, was rather different.


The words mayhem and madness proliferated many of the British
reports on Friday.


By contrast in Spain, what little mention there was of incidents
of crowd violence during the 2-1 win by the local side and UEFA
Cup holders over the visitors from London was confined to a few
paragraphs on the inside pages.


"The behaviour of the English supporters was in general fine
except for a group of around 200 violent ones who, from the start
of the game, started fighting between themselves and then
afterwards with the police," commented Spanish sports daily As.


Pictures of the fighting, which started about 10 minutes into the
game, and other Spanish media accounts, suggest that only between
20 to 30 Tottenham fans were actually involved with the group
throwing seats and stones at the police.


Local police said that one of their officers had been slightly
hurt, with a blow to the back and a slight head wound.


Sevilla football club themselves said that six Spurs fans had
been treated at the ground with three of them taken to hospital
for further treatment.


Police also added that there had been no arrests made before or
during the football match on Thursday.


"The behaviour of the Tottenham fans outside the stadium was
good. What happened inside the Sanchez Pizjuan was sad, the
police had to defend themselves," said a Sevilla vice-president
Jose Castro.


With an estimated 4,400 Spurs fans descending on Sevilla on one
of the city's main festival days, Holy Thursday, and thanks to
the hard-line attitude of UEFA in refusing to move the fixture,
problems had been envisaged.


However, the nightmare scenario failed to emerge due to visible
policing and the common sense from the vast majority of
supporters from both sides.


"A better atmosphere was almost impossible to imagine before the
game.


Thousands of Spurs fans mingling regularly with many Sevilla
fans, with the swapping of scarves and other items," reflected
one eye-witness account in the Spanish sports daily Marca.


There was only one negative note before the game, when some Spurs
fans dropped or smashed some glasses in a road near the stadium
and batons were drawn by the police.


"Statistically something clumsy is going to happen between 4,000
people... a few blows, and then peace," added Marca, perhaps
making a little too light of the incident.


Football's European governing body UEFA have already promised an
investigation into the clashes inside the stadium.


"Any incidents of crowd trouble in the Sevilla against Tottenham
match will be investigated by UEFA," said UEFA communications
director William Gaillard, who was at the match.


Tottenham Hotspur released a statement early on Thursday
morning."The club will be working with the appropriate
authorities to ascertain the events of this evening in Seville."


"Our initial reports suggest there was no fan-to-fan fighting at
any stage of the proceedings. As such we are seeking explanations
as to why the police reacted in the way they did with our fans.


"Tottenham Hotspur supporters have enjoyed an exemplary
reputation across Europe this season which is why the events are
unprecedented. We will be co-operating fully with UEFA, the
British Embassy and the Spanish authorities to understand why
this has happened.


"British Police, the club's security officials, and club stewards
- supported by British Embassy officials - will also be providing
the Spanish authorities and UEFA with full statements from their
first-hand experience of what happened tonight," said the London
side.


However, Spanish pundits were left wondering on Friday whether
this was, for once, a story of English football hooliganism which
had been blown completely out of proportion.

