

German league leaders Schalke 04 host Borussia Monchengladbach on
Saturday hoping European competition may have diverted the
attention of two of their major challengers for the title.


Schalke coach Mirko Slomka must try and fill the void left by the
suspension of Fabian Ernst for his fifth yellow card but, on a
more positive note, Serb defender Mladen Krstajic is back
following a broken rib.


Fourth-placed Bayern Munich, whose 2-2 draw at AC Milan on
Tuesday has left them with one foot in the Champions League semi-
finals, visit Hanover on Saturday while Werder Bremen, who drew
0-0 against AZ Alkmaar in UEFA Cup quarter-final, first leg
action on Thursday, host Nuremberg on Sunday.


Slomka must decide whether to field Halil Altintop. "Halil has
been struggling with a groin injury for weeks," Slomka told the
club's website. "Every time he sets off on a sprint he's in pain.
It's a very tough and unpleasant situation for him.


"What's important is if he can say to us on Friday that the pain
has gone. That wasn't the case on Tuesday or on Wednesday," said
Slomka.


Schalke have 53 points from 27 matches to lead by two points from
Werder Bremen, and by four and six points from VfB Stuttgart, who
travel to Hamburg SV on Saturday, and Munich respectively.


Krstajic has had to wear a special protective suit to help his
rib recover but has finally been able to train without it.


"I'm not scared," the 32-year-old said on his ditching the
protection. "It's just a different feeling, that's all. I'm still
being a bit careful in the tackle, but things will be very
different on Saturday. At least I can breathe properly again."


Schalke's 2-0 defeat at Bayern on Saturday was a major blow to
Slomka's men and it still rankles. "The main thing (against
Monchengladbach) is not to concede a goal after three minutes,"
said Krstajic, referring to Roy Makaay's goal for Bayern.


Slomka said of the Monchengladbach match: "Things always look cut
and dried on paper. We're top and everyone else is behind us. So
of course we're favourites when we play the bottom side at home."


Saturday


Hamburg SV v VfB Stuttgart, Schalke 04 v Borussia
Monchengladbach, Hertha Berlin v Arminia Bielefeld, Hanover v
Bayern Munich, Eintracht Frankfurt v Energie Cottbus, VfL
Wolfsburg v Mainz 05, Alemannia Aachen v Borussia Dortmund


Sunday


Werder Bremen v Nuremberg, Bayer Leverkusen v VfL Bochum

