

Stalked by cancer on the campaign trail, Elizabeth Edwards is
emerging as a crusader against the killer disease, in a poignant
counterpoint to husband John's 2008 White House campaign.


As Edwards's second Democratic presidential bid quietly picks up
pace, his wife's refusal to cede to the incurable cancer now in
her bones is touching hearts in way political campaigns seldom
do.


Karon Finn, from Crestin, Iowa, sought strength in a boisterous
crowd at an Edwards town-hall meeting in a school gymnasium here,
still reeling from her own breast cancer diagnosis two weeks ago.


Days after emergency surgery, and girding for chemotherapy, Finn
travelled 60 miles (96 kilometers) to state capital Des Moines,
clutching Elizabeth Edwards's book "Saving Graces, Finding Solace
from Friends and Strangers."


"She is an inspiration," Finn said, after asking Elizabeth
Edwards to sign the book flyleaf.


"The book has really been a big help, she has gone through a
lot," Finn said, also referring to the first tragedy to strike
the Edwards family, the death of teenage son Wade in a freak car
crash in 1996.


John Edwards, a multi-millionaire with a high wattage smile and
the whiplash wit of a former trial lawyer, seems have matured as
a candidate since he joined the ticket of beaten Democratic
nominee John Kerry in 2004.


He stuffs appearances with detailed proposals on healthcare and
withdrawing troops from Iraq, apparently trying to dispel 2004
whispers that he is high on charisma, but short on substance.


Now, when the couple, married nearly 30 years, hit the campaign
trail, cancer is a constant unwelcome companion.


Elizabeth Edwards candidly admitted on Tuesday, at another event
in Davenport, Iowa, that her breast cancer, could have been
caught earlier in 2004 had she not put off getting a mammogram.


"Women often put themselves at the bottom of the list of things
to do," she was quoted as saying by the Des Moines Register
newspaper.


"When I was putting myself at the bottom of the list, I was
putting him (Edwards) at the bottom of the list, my children at
the bottom of the list, my country at the bottom of the list."


Edwards paid tribute in Des Moines to legions of cancer suffers
who quietly bear up without the wave of sympathy which engulfed
his wife last month.


But asked by a reporter how he would deal with the fact that his
wife's every sniffle would be a campaign issue, he gravely said :
"I worry she will get sick, because I love her."


The couple's decision to press on with their campaign, ensuring
their cancer battle will play out on the front pages, sparked
heated debate about sacrifices imposed on a candidate's family.


In a blizzard of blog postings, television shows and column
inches, commentators questioned whether Elizabeth Edwards should
spend whatever time she has left with her husband and two
youngest children Emma Claire, 8, and Jack, 6, who joined them on
the campaign trial in Iowa, and grown daughter Cate.


But she was back out this week mining for votes, feted with hugs,
cheers and standing ovations.


"We love Elizabeth" read banners in Iowa, on which Edwards is
basing his campaign to beat Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama for
the nomination.


The couple are publicly optimistic Elizabeth can live for years
with drug therapies designed to prolong her life.


A USA Today/Gallup poll last week found 60 percent of Americans
backed their decision to carry on campaigning.


And whether, because of sympathy over his wife's condition, or in
a sign Edwards is beginning to make inroads, his poll numbers are
rising.


In an average of surveys over the last three weeks, Edwards
skipped over Clinton and now leads in Iowa, where he has
campaigned ferociously for the last two years, by 3.5 points.


In New Hampshire, he is now only three points behind Obama in
third place, with signs pacesetter Clinton's support may be
dropping off.


"He is doing very well," said Steffen Schmidt, professor of
political science at Iowa State University, expressing surprise
the cancer diagnosis had not deterred donors as Edwards came in
third in first-quarter fundraising among Democrats with 14
million dollars.


"There is something happening there, he is still very attractive,
he has a great smile (and is) very charismatic."

