

Japan on Friday suspended beef imports from another US meat
packing plant which violated safety rules put in place after a
mad cow disease scare, a farm ministry official said.


It was the third US meat factory to be put on a suspension list
since Tokyo lifted a ban on US beef imports in July last year
after years of trade friction between the two countries over the
embargo, the official said.


But Japan again stopped short of slapping a blanket ban on US
beef as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe prepares to travel to the
United States later this month where he may face pressure to
further ease the import restrictions.


The ministry said it would suspend imports from a factory in
Dodge City, Kansas, owned by US meat packer Cargill after finding
a shipment of four boxes or 24 kilogrammes (53 pounds) of ox
tongue had violated safety rules.


The products, labelled in Spanish, arrived in the western
Japanese port of Kobe in late March with no indication of age, he
said, adding that only meat from cows slaughtered at 20 months of
age or younger was allowed into Japan.


But the ministry has no plan to introduce a blanket ban on all US
beef imports "because suspensions should be applied on a factory-
by-factory basis," the official said.


US President George W. Bush pressed Japan and South Korea in
March to lift all restrictions on US beef. Washington is also
trying to obtain confirmation from a global animal disease
watchdog that all its beef exports are safe.


Japan, formerly the top overseas market for US beef, halted
imports twice since 2003 due to scares over bovine spongiform
encephalopathy (BSE), the brain- wasting condition commonly known
as mad cow disease.


Faced with threats of sanctions, Japan in July agreed to resume
US beef imports on condition the cattle were 20 months old or
younger at the time of slaughter, with brains, spinal cords and
other risky parts removed.


Despite the resumption of US beef imports, their consumption in
Japan remains far below previous levels after years of bad
publicity.

