

The United States expressed confidence Thursday that plans for
North Korea to begin dismantling its nuclear weapons program from
next week would proceed as scheduled although a key condition by
Pyongyang has not been met.


The Stalinist regime has said it would not shut down its key
nuclear facility by April 14 as required under an aid-for-
disarmament deal until Washington frees up allegedly illicit
North Korean money frozen in a Macau bank.


Washington was to have paved the way for the transfer of the 25
million dollars from Banco Delta Asia by mid-March but US
Treasury Department officials have been laboring on the issue in
Beijing for nearly two weeks without any breakthrough.


The state-owned Bank of China has reportedly refused to be the
channel for the transfer of the funds -- previously determined by
the US Treasury to be tainted by North Korean money laundering
and other illicit activity -- for fear its credit rating would be
affected.


"We still believe that it is possible to meet the 60-day deadline
and are working with the other parties to accomplish that goal,"
a State Department official told AFP, referring to the February
13 disarmament agreement that set the deadline.


The US optimism came despite reported concerns by China, South
Korea and Japan that North Korea might not be able to meet the
target due to the fund transfer problem.


Under the deal, brokered at six-party talks hosted by China,
North Korea promised to shut down and seal its plutonium-
producing Yongbyon reactor within 60 days in exchange for energy
aid and diplomatic concessions.


But Pyongyang has refused to return to any nuclear negotiations
with the United States, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia
until it gets control of the 25 million dollars.


Meanwhile, a former senior State Department official on Thursday
blasted the administration of President George W. Bush for
agreeing to unfreeze the allegedly illicit North Korean funds,
saying it set a bad precedent to the international community.


"I think it shows in a small way what the problems are in trying
to politicize law enforcement investigations," said John Bolton,
a former US envoy in the United Nations and top arms control
official.


"I don't know whether the substance of this can be worked out
before the 60 days expire but I do think whatever happens here
will have a negative impact on other law enforcement
investigations being conducted against North Korea and would have
potential and even more destructive effects in other areas as
well," said Bolton, widely seen as a hawk on North Korea in the
Bush administration.


By lifting its objections to unfreeze the North Korean funds, the
United States was sending a wrong signal to European allies and
the Japanese who had adhered to US-led calls to impose financial
sanctions on Iran over its defiance in pursuing a sensitive
nuclear program, Bolton said.


"The Treasury Department has had great success with European and
Japanese financial institutions in excluding or limiting Iran's
access to international financial markets," he said.


"And I greatly fear that these institutions will say, 'now wait a
minute, you want us to do X-Y-Z with respect to Iran and yet you
just turned around and gave (Banco Delta Asia) a pass," Bolton
said.

