

Runaway leaders Inter Milan visit struggling Reggina on Saturday
knowing eight points from their remaining nine matches will
guarantee them the Serie A title.


Inter have a massive 20-point lead over Roma and are poised to
retain the Scudetto that was awarded to them last season despite
finishing third.


The fall-out from the Italian match-fixing scandal saw Juventus
stripped of the 2005-06 title, while second-placed AC Milan were
deducted 30 points.


With no Juve this season and AC Milan given an eight-point
penalty, there has been a certain amount of inevitability about
Inter's championship stroll.


And Daniel Passarella, who captained Argentina when they won the
World Cup on home soil in 1978 and played for Inter between 1986
and 1988, believes his former club could now go on to dominate
Italian football.


"This Scudetto is already won, it's history," Passarella told
ESPN.


"It's remarkable the difference between Inter and the rest of
Serie A, and this is only the start.


"There's no doubt that this Inter side has mastered the art of
winning and they will get stronger and stronger."


Inter defender Marco Materazzi, a World Cup winner with Italy
last year, is suspended for the trip to Calabria while Swedish
striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Brazilian wingback Maxwell are
unlikely to play due to injuries. Ibrahimovic has a groin strain
while Maxwell has a sore calf muscle.


AC Milan will need to pick themselves up from Tuesday's
disappointing 2-2 home draw against Bayern Munich in the first
leg of their Champions League quarter- final when they host
Empoli this weekend.


Desperate to clinch a Champions League place for next season, AC
Milan are currently in sixth place, a point behind Empoli and
four adrift of fourth-placed Palermo.


Empoli striker Nicola Pozzi, who is partly owned by Milan,
insisted his loyalties would not be divided at the weekend.


"Milan own part of me and I've played in some friendlies for
their first team," he said.


"But right now I'm an Empoli player and once I'm on the pitch you
will see how committed to them I am."


Second-placed Roma, who beat English Premiership leaders
Manchester United 2-1 in the first leg of their Champions League
quarter-final on Wednesday, play Catania behind closed doors at
Lecce's Del Mare stadium.


Catania have been banned from playing at their Massimino stadium
following the death of a policeman during crowd trouble in
February.


A civil court ruled on Wednesday that Catania fans would be
allowed to attend matches at neutral venues, but a government-
backed security watchdog overuled the decision for the Roma match
given the reputation of the two sets of fans for causing trouble.


Lazio, who have propelled themselves up to third place after
winning seven games in a row, host Messina at the Olympic
stadium.


Saturday's fixtures (all 1300GMT kick-off unless stated)


AC Milan v Empoli, Atalanta v Chievo, Catania v Roma, Fiorentina
v Ascoli, Lazio v Messina, Palermo v Cagliari, Parma v Livorno,
Reggina v Inter Milan, Sampdoria v Torino, Siena v Udinese

