

Unimpressed with the "uninspiring and immoral" reality TV craze
sweeping China, communist censors in Beijing moved on Friday to
rein in the nation's enormously popular version of "American
Idol".


"No weirdness, no vulgarity, no low taste," the State
Administration of Radio, Film and Television told the organisers
of "Happy Boy" as it listed 11 restrictions for this year's
series.


Relatives and contestants must do their best not to cry, scream
or wail in order to "maintain a happy and inspiring atmosphere",
according to the notice sent to the organisers and posted on the
administration's website on Friday.


Contestants must also only sing "healthy and ethically inspiring"
songs, while the show must not indulge in "gossip". No-one aged
under 18 is allowed to apply.


With the final of last season's version of the show, called
"Super Girl", attracting 400 million viewers or roughly one third
of China's population, the singing competition has proved a
cultural phenomenon.


Reflecting official concerns over the show's impact, the censor's
notice said the rules were aimed at "preparing a good atmosphere"
in society ahead of the ruling Communist Party's five-yearly
National Congress late this year.


"Super Girl drew official and public criticism for promoting
vulgarity and discouraging youngsters from living life
practically by providing instant celebrity," the official Xinhua
news agency said on Friday.


"Conservative critics (also) said the changing taste of viewers
indicated declining moral standards."


Previous government orders forced the organisers of the show,
Hunan Satellite Television in central China, to change it from an
all-girl contest to one just for males.


The TV station also was not allowed to use the word "Super" in
the show's name, partly as an attempt to weaken its brand name,
according to on-line bloggers and various media reports.


The publication of the new rules came amid the initial search for
"Happy Boy" contestants. Ten thousand people have already applied
in Changsha, the capital of Hunan. The search goes nationwide on
Saturday.

