

A French academic prevented from leaving Iran said that police
confiscated his passport after discovering that he was doing
research into Iran's Sunni minority, it was reported on Friday.


Stephane Dudoignon told Le Figaro that he was briefly detained
and questioned by Iranian security officials during a trip to the
southeastern Sistan-Baluchestan province on January 30.


"It's a very interesting topic that you are working on, but we do
not want it to get out," Dudoignon quoted security officials as
telling him.


Earlier that day, the 45-year-old expert on Islam and Central
Asia had photographed a procession of Muslim Shiites celebrating
the holy day of Ashura and the reaction of Sunni bystanders in
the town of Konarak, near Chabahar.


Dudoignon said security officials objected to his meetings with
local leaders and his trip to Konarak, which security officials
said was an "off-limits military zone."


His passport was taken in Sistan-Baluchestan and he was allowed
to return to Tehran where he has been staying with his in-laws,
but barred from traveling outside the capital.


A tense province bordering Afghanistan and Pakistan, Sistan-
Baluchestan has a Sunni majority in Shiite-dominated Iran and is
home to the shadowy Sunni militant group Jundullah, which claimed
responsibility for a bomb attack in February that killed 11
Revolutionary Guards.


Iran suspects the United States and Britain of supporting Sunni
separatists there.


The academic, who lives in France where he works for the National
Center for Scientific Research (CNRS), said he was called in for
questioning 10 days later in Tehran and told that "the next time
you travel to Iran, you can visit your in-laws and that's all."


A fluent Farsi speaker, Dudoignon said he had been traveling to
Iran for years to do research, consulting the national archives
and meeting with authorities.


"I am condemned to wait. But it's starting to drag on," he was
quoted as saying.


The French foreign ministry on Wednesday called on Iran to
"quickly find a solution allowing Mr Dudoignon to leave Iranian
territory."

