

Myanmar's military government has privatised more than 200 state-
owned enterprises since the junta began opening up the economy a
decade ago, a senior official said Friday.


"Altogether 215 state-owned enterprises, of the 288 proposed by
10 ministries, were privatized," a senior offical of the national
planning ministry told AFP on condition of anonymity.


About another 65 enterprises are set to be sold and new proposals
are still coming to the privatisation commission, he added.


All of the state firms were sold to Myanmar nationals, the
official said.


"Under our policy, we will not sell to foreigners. Our government
wants the local private sector to benefit. That's why we
privatised the enterprises."


Of those already sold, 124 had belonged to the information
ministry -- many of them cinemas around the country while another
25 firms had been owned by the commerce ministry, the official
added.


Official media reported Friday that six state-owned rice mills in
the Sagaing Division of central Myanmar would be privatised.


According to official figures, nearly 80,600 factories were
operating around the country in 2005.


When Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, became independent in
1948, it had one of the most promising economies in Southeast
Asia.


Decades of mismanagement under former dictator Ne Win drove the
economy into the ground as he pursued a so-called "Burmese Way to
Socialism" that included extreme isolationism that severed almost
all contact with the outside world.


When the current junta took power after crushing a pro-democracy
uprising in 1988, they began moving ever so slowly to open up the
economy to private and foreign investment.


The privatisation scheme began taking off in the mid-1990s but
the government rarely releases any official data about the
programme.


The government's tepid efforts at economic reform have been
hampered by sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe
over the detention of pro- democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and
other rights abuses.


But in recent years, keen interest from other Asian countries --
especially in Myanmar's energy resources -- have thrown the junta
an economic lifeline.

