

Scott McDonald's signature can help Celtic clinch the Scottish
Premier League before he even joins the Glasgow club, according
to defender Gary Caldwell.


The Australian international striker will not officially become a
Celtic player until July 1, after signing a pre-contract
agreement for seven hundred thousand pounds last week.


However, his Motherwell manager Maurice Malpas has decided to
leave him out of his squad for Saturday's game between the sides
at Parkhead.


A Celtic win over Motherwell, coupled with a defeat for Rangers
away to St Mirren the following day, would see Gordon Strachan's
side crowned champions - 16 points ahead of their Old Firm rivals
with only five games to go.


Even if Rangers were to win, the Parkhead side will lift the
title with a victory away to Kilmarnock the following Sunday.


Caldwell believes not having to face McDonald, who has already
scored 13 SPL goals this season, is a huge boost for Celtic's
chances of defeating Motherwell and taking a step closer to their
second consecutive SPL title.


And the Celtic fans will readily agree with his assessment, due
to their memories of the Aussie striker's two goals against their
side in the final day of season 2004/05, which handed Rangers the
title.


Caldwell said: "There's no doubt that Scott not playing is a
boost to us. He's a dangerous player and has scored a lot of
goals and he will be a great addition to our squad next season.


"I find him awkward to play against and although he's not the
tallest he's strong and puts himself about so I'm delighted he
won't be playing.


"But it's still going to be a difficult game. Motherwell will
make it difficult for us and will be hard to beat so it's up to
us to try and win it.


"If results go our way this weekend and we win the league then it
will be great as that's what we set out to do at the start of the
season.


"Hopefully we can start the match on the front foot and give our
supporters something to shout about."


Rangers will hope to delay Celtic's title party be winning at
Love Street on Sunday but they will have to get past a player
they have signed on a pre- contract agreement.


St Mirren defender Kirk Broadfoot will become a Rangers player at
the end of the season but his manager Gus MacPherson has decided
against leaving him out as they big to avoid relegation.


The Paisley side's boss said: "Our situation means we have to
play our best team. Kirk has played almost every game for us so
he is influential.


"Every manager is different and Maurice Malpas has valid reasons
for leaving Scott McDonald out while we've valid reasons for
keeping Kirk in."


In the rest of this weekend's SPL fixtures third placed Aberdeen,
who are five points behind Rangers in the chase for the runners-
up spot and Champions League qualification, are at home to Dundee
United on Saturday.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline, meanwhile, are at home to
Hibernian knowing victory could bring them within four points of
second bottom St Mirren before their match at home to Rangers.


Fifth placed Kilmarnock can move to within two points of fourth
placed Hearts if they defeat the Tynecastle team in Edinburgh.


And Inverness Caledonian Thistle, who held Rangers to a 1-1 draw
at Ibrox last Saturday despite being reduced to 10 men early on,
are at home to Falkirk, who followed up their 1-0 victory over
Celtic with a 2-0 win over St Mirren last weekend.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Aberdeen v Dundee United, Celtic v Motherwell, Dunfermline v
Hibernian, Hearts v Kilmarnock, Inverness Caledonian Thistle v
Falkirk


Sunday


St Mirren v Rangers (1300)

