

Among the people vying to lead the world's largest city, one is
concerned about the balance of yin-yang energy, one is worked up
about the elevator at his home and another simply flips voters
the middle finger.


Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, an outspoken nationalist backed
by Japan's ruling party, is seeking a third term Sunday and is
ahead in opinion polls.


But there is no shortage of alternatives, with a total of 14
people running including a taxi driver, a street musician and a
self-described "dilettante."


The major candidates include Shiro Asano, who is backed by
Japan's main opposition party, along with famous architect Kisho
Kurokawa, who designed Kuala Lumpur International Airport and a
wing of Amsterdam's Van Gogh Museum.


Then there is freelance inventor Yoshiro Nakamatsu -- better
known as Doctor NakaMats -- who is known for his long list of
gadgets as well as his perennial defeats in Tokyo elections.


It is unknown whether the 78-year-old will receive a boost this
time around from winning a 2005 Ig Nobel Prize -- meant to award
useless research -- for photographing every meal he has eaten
since the 1970s.


Many younger voters in particular seem entertained by fringe
candidates in a country where the Liberal Democratic Party has
led the central government almost continually since 1955.


But cynics say that many fringe candidates are just trying to
promote themselves.


Running requires a deposit of three million yen (25,000 dollars),
which is forfeited if the aspirant does not win 10 percent or
more of votes, but each candidate is entitled to equal airtime on
public broadcaster NHK.


"Tokyo gubernatorial elections always attract many fringe
candidates," said Muneyuki Shindo, a professor of political
science at Chiba University.


"They just want to say whatever they want to say through the
media like television," he said. "It only shows a variety of
people are out there."


Sutoku Sasaki, 64, who registered himself as an "expert in
winning lawsuits," explains his pledges in an official election
gazette in three lines, filling the remaining space with
minuscule script detailing his court battles against an
electrical maker.


He apparently was not happy about the company's elevator at his
home.


Taxi driver Mitsuru Takahashi, 61, pledges 10 policies, one of
which is to allow taxi drivers with customers aboard to enter
designated bus lanes.


Candidate Kumiko Uchikawa, a practitioner of feng shui, the
Chinese discipline of keeping harmony between yin and yang,
explained in her platform that: "Things lose balance and create
distortion, which leads to a vicious cycle of causing social
problems."


"I will increase the overall energy by correcting the bad
balance," she said.


And then there is street musician Koichi Toyama.


The 36-year-old usually pulls in audiences of a few dozen people
as he plays outside of Tokyo's Koenji station.


But Toyama's official election remarks broadcast by NHK has
become such a hit that the election commission on Thursday urged
US-based file-sharing website YouTube to take off all candidates'
speeches.


In the speech, the skinheaded musician openly voices contempt for
the audience, saying he has no desire to represent the majority
of voters -- although promising he would in the unlikely event he
wins.


"Cast your votes to overthrow the government!" he screamed before
sticking up his middle finger and leaving the podium.


Koichi Ito, a suit-clad 36-year-old, said he came to see Toyama
at the station because it would be funny to talk about him to co-
workers.


"It's fun," Ito said. "I was going to cast my vote to Doctor
Nakamats as a joke, but I may go for this guy."


Toyama said he wanted to see if he could beat Doctor Nakamats,
who won nearly 110,000 of the 4.4 million votes vast four years
ago.


"Why don't you join me on the voting day? I will set up a screen
to watch the results over beer," he invited the onlookers.


Toyama later sat down on a bench -- himself with a can of beer --
and congratulated himself.


"After I shot that speech, I felt to myself, I've made it!" he
said.

