

Five-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams again showed she
belongs among the game's best as she joined six of the top eight
seeds in the Amelia Island WTA quarter-finals on Thursday.


Williams advanced to the quarter-finals of the 600,000-dollar
claycourt tournament with a 6-2, 7-5 victory over Tu in a third-
round match between unseeded Americans.


Williams is seeking to re-establish herself as a dominant player
on the women's tour in the wake of a left wrist injury that
sidelined her for much of last season.


She has looked sharp despite playing in just three tournaments
this season, going 10-1 overall and capturing her 34th career
title in Memphis last month.


Williams had ousted fourth-seeded Swiss Patty Schnyder en route
to the third round. Against Tu, Williams converted 66 percent of
her first serves in a match which lasted 85 minutes. She improved
to 5-0 all-time against Tu, who committed seven double-faults and
was broken six times.


Williams next faces eighth-seeded Tatiana Golovin of France, who
rolled to a 6-2, 6-1 triumph over Samantha Stosur of Australia.


The world's 20th-ranked player, Golovin beat Williams in the only
previous meeting between the two players, posting a straight-sets
victory in Charleston in 2005.


Williams and Golovin were joined in the quarterss by top-seeded
Russian Nadia Petrova, who breezed past Zheng Jie of China 6-2,
6-3. Petrova fired seven aces and recorded four break points in a
match which lasted just 72 minutes.


The world No. 7, Petrova will face fifth-seeded Russian Dinara
Safina in the quarters.


Safina made quick work of Slovakian Katarina Srebotnik, posting a
6-3, 6-1 win in just 61 minutes.


Jelena Jankovic, the second seed from Serbia, also cruised into
the quarter- finals defeating Ukrainian Alona Bondarenko 6-2,
6-0.


Jankovic set up a showdown with sixth-seeded compatriot Ana
Ivanovic, who easily defeated Nathalie Dechy of France 6-1, 6-1.


Daniela Hantuchova, the third seed from Slovakia, bounced back
from a disappointing third-round loss two weeks ago at Miami,
where she fell in straight sets to Vera Zvonareva.


The champion at Indian Wells in March, Hantuchova rolled past
unseeded compatriot Dominika Cibulkova 6-1, 6-4.


Hantuchova will face 13th-seeded Austrian Sybille Bammer, a 6-2,
6-3 winner over unseeded Croatian Karolina Sprem.

