

Half the candidates in East Timor's presidential poll said Friday
they fear many attempts have been made to manipulate the election
process ahead of Monday's vote.


"We fear that there are a lot of attempts to manipulate the whole
election process," the candidates said in a joint statement.


"There's been a lot of intimidation, a lot of violence, and a lot
of threats. We fear that violence can occur on the day of the
vote."


The statement was read at a press conference by Joao Viegas
Carrascalao, one of eight candidates seeking to replace President
Xanana Gusmao in the election, the first since East Timor's
independence in 2002.


Joining him at the press conference was Fernando "Lasama" De
Araujo, the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party, who is a
strong contender to win the election.


Lucia Lobato, running for the opposition East Timorese Social
Democrat party, and Fransisco Xavier do Amaral, the chairman of
the Timorese Social Democrat Association (ASDT) party, were also
present.


"We ask the UN to guarantee security and to be aware of all these
attempts of manipulation and if the UN doesn't take any measures
we will provide our own security and our own observers,"
Carrascalao said.


"We have in many cases made complaints to the proper authorities
and so far we haven't seen any measures taken."


At least 32 people were injured Wednesday in various clashes
between supporters of rival candidates in and around the capital
Dili, the UN said.


Rocks were thrown, five people were injured by steel darts, and
in one incident UN police said they fired warning shots amid
unrest near the Australian embassy in Dili.


But Atul Khare, head of the UN mission in East Timor, said most
campaign events had been peaceful.


Two other candidates considered possible winners of the election
did not join the press conference. They are Prime Minister Jose
Ramos-Horta, and Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres of the ruling
Fretilin party.


Indonesia occupied East Timor for 24 years before the former
Portuguese colony gained independence in 2002 after a period of
UN stewardship.


Violence has pulsed through the fledgling state and last year at
least 37 people were killed and more than 150,000 fled their
homes in unrest that triggered the dispatch of Australian-led
international peacekeepers.

