

Interrogations of former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein and
documents seized after the 2003 US-led invasion confirmed that
his regime had not been cooperating with Al-Qaeda, the Washington
Post reported on its website Friday.


The report contradicted a strong argument for the invasion made
by the administration of President George W. Bush that Baghdad
had a working relationship with Al-Qaeda, the Afghanistan-based
group led by Osama bin Laden blamed for the September 11, 2001
attacks on the United States.


The Post reported that a newly released declassified Department
of Defense report said information obtained after the fall of
Saddam confirmed the prewar position of the US Central
Intelligence Agency and Pentagon intelligence that the Iraqi
government had had no substantial contacts with Al-Qaeda.


This position was shored up by interrogations of Saddam and other
top officials captured by the US-led coalition forces in Iraq,
said report, obtained by the Post.


The report noted that the office of then-undersecretary of
defense Douglas J. Feith, one of the foremost advocates for
invading Iraq after the 2001 attacks, had ignored the CIA's
position and characterized the the Al-Qaeda-Iraq relationship as
"mature" and "symbiotic" in a September 2002 briefing to the
chief of staff of Vice President Dick Cheney.


The Feith briefing alleged that the two cooperated in 10 areas,
including training, financing and logistics.


But the new report, the Post says, said the US intelligence
community had concluded at the time that there were "no
conclusive signs" of links between Iraq and Al-Qaeda, and that
"direct cooperation ... has not been established" between the
two.


Prior to the war there was little public dispute inside the
United States over the Bush administration's linking Iraq and bin
Laden's group.


But since the invasion, a number of intelligence officials have
alleged that the White House and its backers ignored their
intelligence and "cherry picked" information that supported their
campaign to persuade Americans of the need to go to war.


In a radio interview Wednesday Cheney insisted on a prewar link
between Iraq and Al-Qaeda, saying that the group was working in
Iraq "before we even arrived on the scene."


"As I say, they were present before we invaded Iraq," Cheney told
conservative radio talk-show host Rush Limbaugh.

