

Sir Alex Ferguson would rather win Manchester United's
Premiership game at Portsmouth on Saturday than the second leg of
their Champions League quarter- final with Roma, according to
Harry Redknapp.


Redknapp expects Ferguson to resist the temptation to rest some
of his key players ahead of Tuesday's return match against the
Italian outfit, despite needing at least a home win to overturn
Wednesday's 2-1 defeat in Rome.


The Portsmouth manager believes Ferguson would swap guiding
United to an historic second European Cup triumph for the chance
to return the Premiership title to the Old Trafford trophy
cabinet after a three-year absence.


Redknapp said: "Sir Alex will be coming here on Saturday with his
best team. He will not be resting players against us because he
is worried about the game with Roma.


"It is a big week for Manchester United, with Roma twice and
coming to play us. To be honest Fergie wants to win the Premier
League more than anything else.


"It seems to me he is really focused on that and I think he
really wants them to be champions of England and to finish above
Chelsea. That is the feeling I get from him.


"He wants to win everything if he can but the Premier League is
what he wants more than anything. He wants to come out on top in
that group with Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool.


"He wants to win the Champions League - but it is second to the
Premiership. "They are looking a good bet to finish as champions.
They have been fantastic this season and if you look at the
attacking players Alex has available it is frightening."


Redknapp has an impressive record of facing United as a manager.
After twice knocking them out of the FA Cup, once at West Ham and
once with tiny Bournemouth, the 60-year-old guided Pompey to
back-to-back home wins over Ferguson's side in their first two
seasons in the Premiership.


He said: "We did very well against United during my first spell
at Portsmouth. We beat them 1-0 in the first year and 2-0 the
season after, which was fantastic when you look at where we had
come from.


"When I was at West Ham we played them at Upton Park on the last
day of the season when they needed to win to win the title. We
were drawing 1-1 having taken the lead and I took off a striker
for a defender, I don't think Alex has ever forgiven me for that!


"They are a great club with a fantastic history but we need the
win to get our own season going again so it should be an
interesting game."


Portsmouth have won only one game in 2007 and are five points
adrift of a UEFA Cup place.


Ryan Giggs reckons United's squad strength will prove decisive as
they try to cope with a series of injuries and suspensions that
threaten their treble bid.


Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic and Mikael Silvestre are all
sidelined through injury, while Paul Scholes' dismissal in Rome
rules him out of the second leg.


But Welsh winger Giggs believes United's reserves will come to
the rescue and he said: "We've been without players all season,
especially recently. That's when the squad comes into play.


"We proved that against Roma with players like Ole Gunnar
Solskjaer coming in. Louis Saha and Darren Fletcher both came
back too, so there are some positives."

