

The sister of Asia's richest woman, Nina Wang, who died this
week, will take control of her real estate empire, a report said
Friday, citing her personal assistant.


Ringo Wong told the English-language Standard newspaper that a
triumvirate, including Wang's younger sister, Kung Yan-sum, would
manage the conglomerate following the tycoon's death on Tuesday
from an unspecified illness. She was 69.


The report said Wang's brother would remain in charge until a
trust fund board being set up to run the business officially put
the sister in charge.


Forbes magazine estimated Wang's fortune at 4.2 billion US
dollars. Speculation remains rife about who will inherit her
money and how much will go to charity.


Citing an unnamed source close to the family, the newspaper also
said the childless Wang had wanted her body to be cremated
because her husband Teddy Wang's body was never found. He was
kidnapped in 1990.


"Nina had repeatedly stated she wished to be cremated since Teddy
has not been found," the source was quoted as saying.


Quoting Nina Wang, the source said: "If we cannot be buried
together, I don't want to sleep down there all alone."


Wong said Wang's family will decide whether to fulfil her wishes
to be cremated in the next few days.


Wong also denied remarks made by Wang's friend and Macau casino
magnet Stanley Ho, who said Wang would not spend money to treat
her illness. He said her illness was ovarian cancer, although
that has been denied by Wong.


Ho claimed that Wang, who was known for wearing free clothes made
by friends and dining out only at fast food restaurants, had been
ill for three years but did not see her doctors until very late
in her illness.


He cited her frugality for the delay in seeking help.


Wong could not immediately be reached for comment. No funeral
date has yet been set.


Wang spent much of the past 10 years of her life successfully
fending off her 96 -year-old father-in-law Wang Din-shin's claim
that she had forged her husband Teddy's will after he disappeared
in 1990. He was legally declared dead nine years later.

