

Steve Coppell is treating the visit of in-form Liverpool to the
Madejski Stadium as a celebration of the progress Reading have
made after 136 years outside English football's top division.


Coppell's Reading side have been the surprise package of the
Premiership season after being tipped by many pundits to make a
swift return to the Championship.


His inexperienced squad may have dropped off the pace in the
pursuit of an unlikely UEFA Cup place, but the Reading boss
insists hosting Rafa Benitez's multi-million pound superstars
will be a proud moment for the club whatever the result.


Merseyside-born Coppell, whose side are without a win in six
games, said: "It is a great time to be playing Liverpool.


"We agreed at the start of the season that these games against
the top five of the Premiership would not be the ones that
decided our future.


"To have picked up five points so far from those games has been
great, especially considering Wigan last year only got one.


"It is going to be a celebration on Saturday. Especially for me
as a boy I grew up watching Liverpool.


"For us to be welcoming Liverpool to our stadium, it is a
fabulous and proud occasion and one we should not be intimidated
by.


"They are really coming into a rich vein of form at the right
time. Their performance against PSV on Tuesday (they beat the
Dutch side 3-0 away in their Champions League quarter-final first
leg match) was outstanding, fabulous football and is one of those
occasions where you really enjoy seeing the top English teams
perform in Europe."


Coppell has remained unenthusiastic about the prospects of
Reading in Europe despite them occupying the top six of the
Premiership for much of the season.


He concedes that as the likes of Chelsea, and more-recently
Liverpool, attract multi-million pound investment from abroad,
small clubs like Reading will never be able to make that step
into the upper echelons of the English game.


Coppell added: "I would love to get to Europe but it is a
question of the club being ready.


"We had a great start to the season and people were talking about
Europe - we were not. This year, with a few notable exceptions,
the league will reflect the investment made in each club."


Liverpool will hope to maintain the momentum of a week that
underlined the undoubted potential of Benitez's squad.


Last weekend's 4-1 thrashing of Arsenal was followed by the
ruthless demolition of PSV, leaving Liverpool on the verge of a
second European semi-final in three seasons.


Benitez knows he has the nucleus of a team capable of taking on
Europe's best and he is keen to tie the likes of Steven Gerrard,
Jamie Carragher, Xabi Alonso and Jose Reina to long-term
contracts.


Reina revealed the players are set to sit down with the club's
new American owners soon to discuss the future and he said: "We
will be speaking to the new owners over the next few days, but
I've said many times now I'm really happy at Liverpool and I want
to extend my contract.


"The key for any growing team is not only to improve with new
players, but also to make sure the key players and the spine of
the side stays together. Then you can build an even stronger team
around this. That spine is here at Liverpool.


"The project will be to build a team which is massive and can win
many things. The new owners have said before they make transfers
they first of all want to prepare new deals."

