

Security forces imposed a curfew on the central Iraqi city of
Diwaniyah on Friday amid ongoing Iraqi-US military raids and
clashes with Shiite militiamen in the Mahdi Army.


The curfew began at 5:00 am (0100 GMT), with only security forces
and militia fighters visible on the streets after daybreak, an
AFP correspondent said.


Iraqi and US troops conducted house-to-house searches, made
arrests, clashed with Mahdi Army gunmen and called in an air
strike after sealing off four neighbourhoods in central Diwaniyah
late on Thursday, the correspondent said.


Sporadic clashes continued in the centre of the city after
daybreak with heavier fighting reported in northern Diwaniyah. A
witness told AFP he saw the bodies of five militiamen and dozens
more wounded.


There was no immediate confirmation of the operation from the US
military.


An official in the local office of the movement of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who controls the Mahdi Army, confirmed
militiamen and US troops were clashing around Salim Street and
the Al-Askari neighbourhood.


"The clashes started this morning. At least 30 civilians were
killed and three (US) Humvees were burnt," the official said on
condition of anonymity.


There was no independent confirmation for the toll.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said.


The raids came two days after Iraq said a military crackdown,
underway in Baghdad since mid-February, was being extended to
other flashpoint regions. It was not immediately clear whether
there was a connection.


The Americans believe Sadr, one of the leading opponents of US
troops in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile to escape
the Baghdad crackdown.


Sadr launched two bloody rebellions against US troops in 2004,
before joining mainstream politics, but the Pentagon considers
the Mahdi Army the most dangerous threat to stability in Iraq,
greater even than Al-Qaeda.

