

Beijing is working on ways to avoid the "white elephant" effect
of the Olympics that has soured the 2004 Athens legacy, with
plans to make the city China's sporting capital, state media said
Friday.


Athens has been saddled with five billion dollars' worth of
sports venues purpose built for the Olympics that are now lying
unused and decaying.


The Beijing city government has earmarked 500 million yuan (62.7
million dollars) over the three years from the end of the 2008
Games to ensure that new venues are maintained and used, the
paper quoted a leading city sports official as saying.


How the money will be spent has yet to be decided although
attracting more sporting events after the Olympics is a top
priority, Li Jinkang, vice director of the Beijing Sports Bureau,
told the China Daily.


"We will do our best to capitalise on hosting of the 2008 Games
and not repeat the waste of Olympic legacy in Athens," he said.


"The use of stadiums in the post-Olympic period is already at the
top of our agenda."


Beijing, which does not have a culture of watching sporting
events, has more ambitious building plans than Athens for its 31
competition venues for the Games.


Among those are the eye-catching "Bird's Nest" main stadium and a
state-of-the- art swimming venue known as the "Water Cube." The
two venues alone will cost four billion yuan (more than 500
million dollars).


Li said the goal of the city government was to turn Beijing into
China's top sporting centre, a position currently held by
Shanghai.


Events on Beijing's sporting calendar include top tennis and
snooker events, the newspaper said.


By contrast, upcoming events in Shanghai include a Formula One
race, the MotoGP World Championships, A1 Grand Prix, the tennis
Masters Cup, major golf events and the final of the women's
football World Cup.


"In addition to the China Open tennis we will bring more events
with a similar level. The government is ready to support the
plans with policy and money," said Li.

