

Two French tourists are missing after 1,600 passengers and crew
had to be abandon a Greek cruise ship that ran aground near the
Aegean island of Santorini, officials said on Friday.


"The missing are Jean-Christophe Allain, 45 and his 16-year-old
daughter Maud," a merchant marine ministry official told AFP,
saying the pair were reported missing by Allain's wife and son
several hours after the accident on Thursday.


The Greek-flagged cruise ship, the Sea Diamond, listed
dangerously after hitting a reef half a nautical mile offshore as
it was preparing to dock at Santorini, prompting a major
evacuation effort.


The 400-strong crew used boats and ladders to evacuate the
passengers, assisted by a flotilla of vessels from the island,
other cruise ships and Greek navy and airforce helicopters.


The authorities are conducting a search for the two among the
cruise ship's passengers who are mostly Americans and Germans.
The majority of them have already sailed from Santorini for the
mainland port of Piraeus on two other vessels.


The operating company of the 143-metre (472-foot) Sea Diamond,
Cyprus-based Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines, had initially reported
that all passengers and crew had evacuated safely.


"The ship is ultra-modern, and its water-tight doors performed in
order," company representative George Stathopoulos told private
TV station Alpha.


Stabilised during the three-hour evacuation effort, the Sea
Diamond sank early on Friday morning in a bay near the port of
Santorini where it had been towed after the accident.


The ship's captain is expected to be detained later today, the
merchant marine ministry said.


The cause of the accident, which occurred in mild weather
conditions, has not been determined. An investigation is in
process, with navy divers on site.


The first 325 passengers of the Sea Diamond arrived early Friday
at Piraeus on board another cruise ship, the Aegean II, and are
expected to be taken to Athens airport for flights home.


Another 726 passengers and 314 crew were to arrive later in the
day on board the Perla, a cruise ship also owned by Louis
Hellenic Cruise Lines.


The remaining passengers opted to spend the night on Santorini,
the ministry said.


The ship's company and the Greek authorities have come under
criticism for giving conflicting information on the number of
passengers on board.


Citing information from Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines, the merchant
marine ministry said 1,155 passengers were on the ship. A company
statement put their number at around 1,170, but Stathopoulos
later amended that to 1,153.


Greek Merchant Marine Minister Manolis Kefaloyannis on Thursday
praised the rescue operation as "splendid" on all counts.


"There was not even a nose bleed," he told private TV station
Antenna.


The Sea Diamond was launched in 1986 and renovated nearly a
decade ago. It has a crew of 400 and can take up to 1,500
passengers.


The ship was completing an Aegean cruise to the Greek islands of
Mykonos, Patmos and Crete and the Turkish coastal town of
Kusadasi.


Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines operates several cruises to Greece
and the Greek Islands, which are popular summer destinations
visited by millions of tourists every year.


Authorities in Greece are particularly sensitive to marine
accidents after 80 people died in the sinking of the Greek ferry
Express Samina after it hit two reefs in 2000.

