

The United States Thursday shrugged off Iran's release of 15
captured British sailors and warned it faced tougher sanctions if
it does not bow to UN demands to halt its uranium enrichment
operations.


Refusing to accept the idea that the return of the Britons 12
days after they were seized showed Tehran's readiness to engage
the international community, the White House reminded Tehran of
the UN Security Council's demands on its nuclear program.


"I would view the detention of the British sailors as not in line
with their willingness to work with the international community,"
the White House national security council spokesman Gordon
Johndroe said, referring to Iran's leaders.


"What would show that they are more in line with the
international community is to comply with the UN Security Council
resolutions, and suspend their uranium enrichment and
reprocessing activities," said Johndroe.


"We'd be hopeful to not have to go back to the UN Security
Council for an additional sanction regime," the spokesman said.


And US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack accused Iran of
using "hostage- taking as a tool of its international diplomacy."


For its part Tehran Thursday declared its refusal to bow to
pressure on its nuclear program, which it says is for power
generation but major Western powers believe is aimed at
developing nuclear weapons.


Shortly after Johndroe's remarks, Iranian state television
reported that Iran's nuclear chief Ali Larijani told the European
Union there was no chance that Tehran would suspend uranium
enrichment.


The exchange marked the resumption of more strident rhetoric
after the 12-day crisis over the British sailors and marines, who
Iran captured in or near Iranian waters on March 23 March.


Tehran declared the 14 men and one woman had illegally moved into
Iranian waters, but Britain maintains they were seized in Iraqi
waters where they were carrying out anti-smuggling oprations
under UN resolutions.


The United States, which does not maintain direct relations with
Iran, on Thursday welcomed their release, but tellingly praised
London, not Tehran, for the peaceful end of the tense standoff.


US President George W. Bush, on his Texas ranch for a long Easter
weekend, spoke for about an hour by secure video with British
Prime Minister Tony Blair, Johndroe told reporters.


"The president welcomed the safe return of the British personnel
who had been detained in Iran. He also commended the British on
their resolve in bringing the situation to a peaceful
resolution," he said.


McCormack confirmed that Washington had toned down its rhetoric
throughout the standoff, though on Saturday Bush referred to the
Britons as "hostages" who had been seized in Iraqi waters.


"In the context of an ongoing hostage crisis, of course we are
not going to say anything that could make the situation worse or
make it more difficult to realize a peaceful solution," McCormack
said. "Absolutely, we're going to tailor our rhetoric."


At the same time, McCormack hinted at possible face-to-face talks
between US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on the sidelines of an
international conference on Iraq in early May.


"We have said from the beginning, when this first surfaced, that
if there would be a ministerial conference, that we are not going
to exclude any particular diplomatic interaction," he said.


McCormack emphasized the possible bilateral meeting would focus
on Iraq exclusively, and not address the Iranian nuclear program.
US officials denied any link to the Britons' release.


On another front, US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday
that US officials were not inclined to release five Iranians
captured in Iraq, and accused Iran of supporting Iraqi
insurgents.


"I think there's no inclination right now to let them go," Gates
told reporters, rejecting speculation that the United States was
preparing to release the group or allow consular access to them
as part of a deal involving Iran's release of the British
captives.


Meanwhile controversial former US ambassador to the United
Nations John Bolton described the hostage standoff as a "double
victory" for Tehran.


Iran "won a victory when they captured the hostages and they won
a victory when they released the hostages" Bolton said on the US-
funded Alhurra Arabic-language television network.


"I think they were testing British resolve in response to this
provocative act and I think they already had their answer, which
was that the British are not going to respond in a strong
fashion," he said.

