

Greenpeace activists who sailed to Japan hoping to build sympathy
for the preservation of whales said Friday they were leaving
without being allowed to hold public events on their boat.


The Dutch-flagged "Esperanza" anchored off whale-hunting Japan
last Sunday but docked only Friday in Yokohama after days of
additional inspections, Greenpeace said.


The environmental group had planned to invite diplomats to tour
the Esperanza, which trailed Japan's whaling fleet on its
controversial Antarctic hunt.


But the ship was only able to secure a dock where the public is
not allowed. It was due to leave Saturday for a previously
scheduled stop in South Korea, Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara Holden
said, but she insisted the trip, which was little covered in the
Japanese media, had been worthwhile.


"I think it's important to establish simply the freedom to come
to Japan," Holden said from aboard the vessel.


"Of course, we'd love to have held an open boat but on this
occasion it's not possible."


Port authorities in Yokohama said there was inadequate space
dockside.


"Greenpeace has docked but are not allowed to hold public events.
We have already explained to them that there is simply no space
to hold one. That's all there is to it," said a spokesman at
Yokohama port.


Holden said port officials voiced concern that right-wing
activists could protest if Greenpeace docked in an open area.


"They're entitled to peaceful protests. We're peaceful protesters
ourselves," she said.


"It's important to take these first steps to show we're a
completely peaceful organisation and simply want to launch a
dialogue."


Japan has previously branded environmentalists that have pursued
its wahling ships as "terrorists."


Earlier this year, activists of the Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society, a militant splinter group of Greenpeace, threw acid on
the whalers' mother ship, the Nisshin Maru.


A fire later broke out on the ship, leaving one crewman dead.


While both sides said the blaze was unconnected to
environmentalists' protests over whaling, the incident forced
Japan to cut short its annual whale hunt after killing little
more than half the intended catch.


At the time, Greenpeace condemned Sea Shepherd's activities and
offered to help the stricken vessel.


Japan, which says whaling is part of its culture, hunts about
1,000 of the mammals each year using a loophole in a global ban
that allows the killing of whales for research.

