

Billionaire software programmer Charles Simonyi is set to rocket
into space Saturday in a flight to the International Space
Station (ISS) that will make him the world's fifth space tourist.


The 58-year-old Simonyi, who was born in Hungary and made his
fortune as a pioneer at US software giant Microsoft, will spend
10 days on the station conducting experiments, blogging, and at
least part of the time, marvelling at how far he's come.


Simonyi will bring with him a paper ribbon containing a program
he wrote on the 1960s Soviet-made Ural-2 computer, as he said,
"to remind me where it all began."


Like any good guest, he'll also have a treat for his hosts on the
ISS: a special space meal he will prepare for them on April 12,
Cosmonaut's Day.


Simonyi is set to blast off at 1731 GMT Saturday from the space
centre here with Russian cosmonauts Fyodor Yurchikhin and Oleg
Kotov.


Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov will see them
off, as will about 50 of the programmer's friends.


The three space travellers spent a two-week quarantine in
Baikonur after a month of training -- and a crash-course in
Russian for Simonyi -- at Star City, a space mission preparation
centre near Moscow.


The flight, which cost Simonyi around 25 million dollars (19
million euros), will be far more than a pleasure trip. Between
snapping shots of Earth, he will be conducting medical
experiments for the European Space Agency and testing high-
definition cameras for the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency.


He plans to spend his free time detailing his experiences in a
blog at www.charlesinspace.com. The site already contains daily
accounts of his training sessions, as well as information and
games "for future generations of space explorers."


At a walk around the Baikonur space centre this week, Simonyi
said he had been thrilled to find a piece of his programming past
there.


"At the Baikonur museum they have a Ural-1, which is almost like
a Ural-2.... I kind of thought that the circle is closed, that
we're back to the future, and I think it's great."


His passion for the stars seized him only recently as he watched
rocket launches at the US space centre in Cape Canaveral.


As a teenage computer programmer, Simonyi's greatest ambition had
been "to get out of Hungary and emigrate to the West."


He succeeded in 1968, at the age of 20, when he enrolled in the
prestigious University of California-Berkeley and studied
engineering and mathematics.


His path to fortune was laid in 1981, when he was hired by
Microsoft -- then a scrappy young company -- and helped design
the benchmark Word and Excel programmes.


He later received US citizenship, and in 2002 quit Microsoft to
found his own firm, Intentional Software.


Already adept at piloting airplanes and helicopters, Simonyi said
he was not sure what would strike him more -- the sight of the
blue planet from space or the feeling of weightlessness.


"I think that the best is to discover it on the spot," he said.


He is scheduled to return to Earth on April 20 together with the
current ISS team -- Russia's Mikhail Tyurin and American Miguel
Lopez-Alegria -- while his companions stay on for a 190-day shift
in orbit.


Simonyi will be the fifth tourist to travel to the ISS, following
the United States' Dennis Tito (2001) and Greg Olsen (2005),
South Africa's Mark Shuttleworth (2002) and an American of
Iranian origin, Anousheh Ansari (2006).


Once back on Earth, he will focus on a more worldly task:
developing his new company.


"I've got this company, and my dream is to make it very
successful," he said.

