

The family of a Mongolian model brutally murdered here is suing
the Malaysian government and three people accused in the case,
including a well-connected political analyst, lawyers said
Friday.


Lawyer Karpal Singh said he would soon file a civil suit for
damages by Setev Shaariibuu, the father of model Altantuya, 28,
who was murdered and then her body blown into fragments by
explosives in October last year.


Two police officers have been charged with the killing, while
analyst Abdul Razak Baginda, whose connections reach as high up
as Malaysia's deputy prime minister, has been charged with
abetting in the crime.


Singh said the suit named the Malaysian government, as well as
the three accused, who are due to stand trial on June 4.


"The suit is against the government because of the two police
officers being agents of the government.... The government is
also liable for the act," Singh told AFP.


"The suit is also against Abdul Razak Baginda as an ordinary
person, who is also allegedly responsible for the crime," he
said.


The murder has sent shockwaves through Malaysia because of the
grisly nature of the crime, as well Abdul Razak's political
connections.


Abdul Razak, who is married, in January admitted to having an
affair with Altantuya, but said he wanted her out of his life
after she demanded money.


Police have said the woman was kidnapped from outside Abdul
Razak's home before she was killed.


Singh said Altantuya's father had legal custody of her two young
boys, both below ten, and that he was seeking unspecified damages
on the children's behalf to help support them.


"The children don't have any financial support now. She was
supporting them," Singh said.


"I won't specify the amount but the children have to be supported
right up until the age of 18. It will be quite a substantial
amount," he added.


Singh said he was filing the suit in the high court in Shah Alam,
west of Kuala Lumpur, "very soon" and that he expected the case
to be heard after the criminal trial.


"We have to wait for the criminal case to be over. If they are
found guilty, the government may well want to settle it," said
Singh.


Abdul Razak and the two police officers, both from Malaysia's
elite Special Action Force, face the death penalty if found
guilty.

