

Barcelona have a two point lead at the top of the La Liga, and
seem well on their way to a third consecutive Spanish title, but
will want to avoid coming unstuck at Real Zaragoza on Saturday.


Zaragoza are in fifth place and have ambitions of playing in
Europe themselves next season, having only lost twice at home
this season.


"Our main rival is ourselves," acknowledged Barca striker Samuel
Eto'o.


"We are first and so only have to depend on ourselves. If other
teams drop points then it makes our lives easier but we should
never get tired of winning," added last season's top scorer in
the Spanish first division.


For one of the rare occasions this season, Barca coach Frank
Rijkaard will be able to select his side from almost his entire
first team squad, helped by the news that Ronaldinho trained
normally on Thursday.


There are no suspensions, no major injuries and only midfielder
Thiago Motta has a question mark over his health, after having to
end training early on Thursday after an over-enthusiastic
challenge from his team mate Rafa Marquez.


Zaragoza have a six-game unbeaten streak in the league but lost
to Barcelona 2-1 at home in the Spanish Cup six weeks ago and
have revenge in mind.


"Barcelona have gone a long time without losing when they have
their magic trident of Eto'o, Ronaldinho and Lionel Messi all
available but one day they'll have to, and that day could be
Saturday," suggested Zaragoza coach Victor Fernandez on Thursday.


"This match has come at a time when both teams are in form and
I'll have no problem motivating my players," added Fernandez.


Sevilla lie in second place and, with only one loss in the league
in their Sanchez Pizjuan stadium this season, they will feel
confident of beating Racing Santander on Sunday to keep up the
pressure on Barca.


The morale of Sevilla was also boosted by their hard-fought 2-1
win over Tottenham Hotspur in the UEFA Cup on Thursday but
seventh-placed Racing has suddenly hit a run of form, are
unbeaten in their last games, and starting to sound very
confident.


"Most people have never known Racing to be in such a good
position at this stage of the season and qualifying for Europe
for the first time is now a realistic possibility," commented
Racing captain Pablo Pinillos.


"We took three points off Valencia in their own Mestalla stadium
two weeks ago, and we'll be thinking about doing the same against
Sevilla," added the Racing defender.


Real Madrid are three points further back in third and have a
tricky game against Osasuna looming up on Sunday.


The question is, how much did Osasuna's outstanding 3-0 triumph
at Bayer Leverkusen in the UEFA Cup on Thursday take out of them?


Real are expected to welcome back David Beckham and Jose Antonio
Reyes, with both men having been out of action for the last month
due to knee injuries, although neither is expected to start.


Both sides have been hit by suspensions, with Real losing
midfielder Fernando Gago and Jose Maria 'Guti' Gutierrez while
Osasuna will be without their own midfield pair of Hector Font
and Juanfran Torres.


Osasuna will also be without their top scorer Roberto Soldado who
is on loan from Madrid and cannot play against his old club
because of a clause in the deal.


Fourth-placed Valencia, with confidence sky-high after their 1-1
draw at Chelsea in the Champions League on Tuesday, are one point
behind Real and have an away trip to struggling Athletic Bilbao
on Sunday.


Trips to Athletic's San Mames stadium used to be a daunting
prospect but Bilbao have only won twice there this season and
face the prospect of being relegated from the Spanish first
division for the first time in their history.


Saturday (Kick off in GMT)


Real Zaragoza v Barcelona (1800)


Athletic Bilbao v Valencia (2000)


Sunday


Deportivo La Coruna v Gimnastic Tarragona (1500)


Espanyol v Real Sociedad (1500)


Levante v Real Betis (1500)


Real Mallorca v Getafe (1500)


Recreativo Huelva v Celta Vigo (1500)


Sevilla v Racing Santander (1500)


Real Madrid v Osasuna (1700)


Villarreal v Atletico Madrid (1900)

