

Joe Cole is determined to make up for lost time by playing a
decisive role in Chelsea's quadruple challenge.


Cole returned to action after four months out with a foot injury
in Wednesday's Champions League draw against Valencia.


The England winger had grown increasingly anguished at his
inability to help Chelsea fight Manchester United for the
Premiership title.


He admits the painful memories of his time on the sidelines will
motivate him to help the Blues end the season with more
silverware - and he is ready to take out his frustrations on
Tottenham on Saturday.


"It's been a long time and a difficult season. I've missed more
or less the whole campaign with two big injuries," Cole said.


"But I am back now and feeling my way into it. I am sure I will
have something to say this year once I get my fitness and
sharpness back 100 per cent.


"I will be able to make a bigger impact and it is great to have
all the big games to do it in.


"But it could go from being my worst season to my best now if we
win some trophies. We are fighting on all three fronts for that.


"We have had lots of injuries to key players and it has really
stretched the squad. It's been a credit to the lads.


"People have criticised for not being as good as we have been but
we are still there. It is a great accolade for the boys."


At the end of March these London rivals met at White Hart Lane in
an FA Cup quarter-final replay, which Chelsea won 2-1 courtesy of
goals from Andriy Shevchenko and Shaun Wright-Phillips.


The tie was overshadowed by a Tottenham supporter trying to punch
Blues midfielder Frank Lampard on the pitch at full-time, though,
and the atmosphere at Stamford Bridge this weekend is sure to be
intense once again.


Chelsea need to win the match to ensure they stay in touch with
league leaders Manchester United, who are currently six points
clear.


French youngster Lassana Diarra, usually a midfielder, is still
getting used to his right-back role but hopes to impress again
against Tottenham.


"I hope that I keep the coach's trust, because at Chelsea it is a
daily fight," Diarra said.


"It is very difficult to keep your place in the team. Now the
coach believes I have the right to play as full-back, but he
plays me everywhere."


The midweek draw with Valencia in the Champions League means a
quadruple trophy haul is still possible this season, with the
League Cup already won, and an FA Cup semi-final against
Blackburn coming up later this month.


Tottenham are chasing silverware too this season in the UEFA Cup,
but manager Martin Jol - whose side came away with a creditable
2-1 away defeat at holders Sevilla in the first leg on Thursday -
insists a high league finish is equally important.


They are presently sixth in the table, but need to maintain a run
of form which keeps them in the position in order to ensure they
qualify for Europe next season.


Jol said: "Year on year we are progressing. Everyone is entitled
to their opinion of course, but you cannot tell me that we are
not getting better, not improving on all fronts.


"This is our first season battling on all fronts - in all the
cups and the league as well - and I am happy with how it has
gone.


"No club outside of the top four can boast what we are doing this
season."


Jol is happy with his relatively small but high-quality squad and
he believes they can crack the Premiership's top four with a
couple of additions.


"We have players who can play at the very highest level but we
could do with a couple more because we want to be as strong as
Manchester United and Chelsea. "The next step is to get into the
top four and to be winning."

