

Joe Calzaghe knows there are harder fights available than the one
that awaits him in front of 35,000 fans at the Millennium Stadium
in Cardiff on Saturday, but he is also aware he can ill afford
another disappointing display.


Some UK bookmakers have quoted the unbeaten Welshman at a massive
50-1 on to defeat Peter Manfredo Junior, the 26-year-old American
challenger for his World Boxing Organisation (WBO) title that he
defends for a 20th time.


Calzaghe, 35, is boxing's longest reigning world champion and
some have dismissed his latest defence against Manfredo, star of
the reality television series 'The Contender' two years ago and
who has spent most of his career at light-middleweight and
middleweight, as a mismatch.


But not Calzaghe, who is adamant he faces a legitimate challenger
in a fight which is more about the champion's chance to shine in
front of a large American TV audience and so set up a bigger
fight later this year.


With American TV network HBO screening the fight live, Calzaghe
is anxious to please after his last outing when he admits he
under-performed.


After destroying American Jeff Lacy so impressively over 12 one-
sided rounds a year ago, Calzaghe was then taken to points by
Australian Sakio Bika in an ugly brawl in October.


"In my last fight I tried too hard to impress the crowd and
American TV, but I will learn from my mistakes and that won't
happen again," Calzaghe told AFP.


"I let myself down and tried too hard against Bika. A lot of
fighters go back when I fight them and it goes to my head. I go
for the trigger and come unstuck like I did against Bika.


"I don't want to go in wild and look messy, get caught by head-
butts or elbows like I did against Bika.


"This time I want to show my full arsenal of skills but I have to
be patient and not too fired up.


"It's all about showing my boxing skills and a knock-out will
come. This is a chance for me to show the world what I'm all
about and against an opponent who is a big name.


"He's well known in America but also over here. I've seen blokes
in Cardiff with Manfredo T-shirts on, which is a bit insulting
really.


"He's not the best guy I've fought, but he's not the worst.
Nobody gave Bika a chance and it was my toughest fight. Jeff Lacy
was supposed to be beat me up but I smashed him up, so you never
know."


Despite what promoter Frank Warren is calling a record for an
indoor boxing event in Europe and the biggest crowd seen in
Britain for a fight since super- middleweights Nigel Benn and
Chris Eubank clashed in front of 42,000 at Old Trafford in 1993,
Calzaghe is not giving the size of the audience too much thought.


"I'm proud to be part of such a big event and I want to put on a
show to make everyone happy, but I don't want to focus too much
on the size of the crowd," Calzaghe said.


Manfredo, who was beaten by Sergio Mora in the final of 'The
Contender', hopes Calzaghe will crack under the pressure.


"The pressure is definitely on him, I have no pressure," Manfredo
told a news conference on Thursday.


"I'm going into his back yard in front of 35,000 people screaming
his name. I have nothing to lose, but he has."


Amir Khan, the 2004 Olympic silver medallist from Bolton in
England, claims the presence of American TV will inspire him to a
new level of performance.


The 20-year-old lightweight faces Steffy Bull in his 12th
professional fight as part of the undercard.


"Knowing American TV will be there has made me train harder for
this fight," Khan, whose parents are from Pakistan, told AFP.

