

Sudan's regime should be punished for failing to implement a
peacekeeping plan in Darfur, and the country is making it
difficult for aid workers to transport food and medical aid,
Britain's international development secretary said in an
interview published Friday.


Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, Hilary Benn also said that a
"no-fly zone" over the region was being considered by Britain and
the United States, though he acknowledged that enforcing it would
present "huge logistical challenges."


"President (Omar al-) Beshir is not co-operating with the package
that was agreed," Benn told the paper.


"That's absolutely clear, which is why we are currently working
with the Americans and others in the Security Council on a new
resolution.


"It's really important that the international community, with one
voice, says 'this isn't good enough'."


In an agreement reached last November in Addis Ababa, UN soldiers
were to provide material and logistical support to African Union
troops deployed in the western region.


Beshir has backed away from that agreement by putting strict
limits on any UN role in Darfur, prompting the United States and
European countries to begin drawing up wide-ranging new sanctions
to impose on the Khartoum government.


According to Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal, however,
Beshir reaffirmed the agreement about a week ago, though the
United States has expressed its skepticism.


Some 200,000 people have been killed in violence in Darfur, and
more than two million driven from their homes, according to the
United Nations, which has reported widespread human rights abuses
there.


Benn also criticised Sudan's government for making it difficult
for aid organisations to operate in the region, saying: "The
regime is making the humanitarian effort more difficult."


"I am concerned about the continuing obstacles that get put in
the way, like visas and travel permits and getting material
through customs.


"It's a continuing frustration that there isn't the kind of co-
operation there ought to be, given that it is the humanitarian
effort that is keeping alive two million or so people in the
camps."

