

It is just over six months since Arsene Wenger celebrated his
10th year in charge at Arsenal, but his special season is
threatening to turn into a wake.


The north Londoners' hopes of ending their two-year trophy
drought were ended in a devastating 11-day spell last month and
now even their hopes of a top-four finish - together with
Champions League qualification - are beginning to wobble.


Arsenal are just five points clear of fifth-placed Bolton
Wanderers and although there is no suggestion of panic at the
Emirates stadium, an apparent home banker against resurgent West
Ham on Saturday now looks tougher than expected.


The Gunners can ill afford any slip-ups.


A place in Europe's elite club competition is worth a minimum of
10 million pounds and, with payments pending on the club's new
ground, missing out would be financially catastrophic. For the
players, meanwhile, the stigma of being forced to settle for the
UEFA Cup would be hard to shake off.


"When you are a big club, you have to win trophies and we did not
do that this year," French defender Gael Clichy said. "Even if we
finish third or, say, do something big and get second in front of
Chelsea, that would still be a disappointment for everyone
because we did not win anything.


"The motivation is still there because we have to finish third
for us to be sure to be in the Champions League next season.


"When you play for such a big club like Arsenal, you cannot
afford to play just to be playing - you have to play to an
objective and that is to finish third and progress.


"So let's finish the job now, get third place and get qualified
for the Champions League, then look forward to next season
because we have a great chance to do great things with this
team."


The visit of relegation-threatened West Ham should provide a
perfect opportunity for Arsenal to stitch together their tattered
season, but the east Londoners have been rejuvenated in recent
weeks, winning back-to-back Premiership matches and playing with
renewed self-belief.


Key to their revival has been the impressive form of Carlos
Tevez, the Argentina forward, but manager Alan Curbishley
believes his whole squad are now proving their league position is
no reflection of their obvious talents.


"When you've been getting beaten it's nice to turn it around," he
said. "But that has been tempered by the fact that we're still in
trouble.


"I've seen enough talent out there for us not to be in this
position. I've looked at their ability and wondered why we're in
the bottom three.


"But it's a results business. We can't keep looking back at
results we haven't got. If we get out of it this season it'll be
a great result for us and that's what we're all looking to do.


"If we can get anything against Arsenal it will take us into
another big game against Sheffield United, because they're near
us. We know we have to win the majority of our games. It's game
on."

