

Japanese fans raised their glasses Friday in pre-dawn toasts to
Daisuke Matsuzaka, the high-priced pitcher who earned his first
Major League win in a brilliant debut for the Boston Red Sox.


Dozens of fans cheered at a Tokyo sports bar as they watched the
local hero work seven strong innings, giving up only six hits as
the Red Sox beat the Kansas City Royals 4-1.


Businesspeople and students on their way to offices and schools
picked up extra editions of newspapers about the game, which
started at 3:00 am here, while television networks made Matsuzaka
the top news item.


"The 100 million-dollar man made a stunning debut," the Nikkan
Sports daily said in its extra.


"The Monster's legend has started in the Major Leagues," it said,
referring to the Japanese nickname of the pitcher dubbed by US
media as "Dice-K."


Yasuhisa Nakazono, 50, waking up with a cigarette on his way to
work, said he was up early to watch the game.


"Matsuzaka met our expectations -- he is reliable. I'm really
happy," he said. "He proved Japanese professional baseball is
competitive and convincing in the Major Leagues."


Mitsuyoshi Kobori, 58, standing in Tokyo's busy Ginza district,
said she was proud of how popular Matsuzaka had become with US
fans.


"When I saw a row of people holding up square boards with "K"
written on them, I got really excited," he said.


The 26-year-old pitcher, known for his elusive "gyroball," is far
and away the most expensive Asian import in the Major Leagues.


The Red Sox signed a six-year contract for 52 million dollars
with him, after paying 51.1 million dollars to his Japanese team,
the Seibu Lions, just for negotiating rights.


Matsuzaka gave the Red Sox a hefty early return in his debut,
throwing strikes for 74 of his 108 pitches in Kansas City. He
struck out 10, yielding only one run off one walk and six hits.


"This proves there was no mistake in what I did in the past," the
soft-spoken pitcher said in a post-game news conference televised
in Japan.


Japan, which has a longstanding baseball rivalry with the United
States, has been filled with fanfare since the top pitcher was
headhunted by Major League teams.


One of the few to throw cold water on the excitement was Finance
Minister Koji Omi, who questioned why public broadcaster NHK has
to "pick up this kind of news every morning."


"A public broadcaster should report more about global issues,"
Omi said, as quoted by Kyodo News.


But chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki voiced delight
at Matsuzaka's debut.


"I'm very pleased because the expectations were really high and
we were concerned he would buckle under pressure. But he proved
he can fight under pressure," Shiozaki told his regular morning
news conference.


Matsuzaka was the Most Valuable Player in the inaugural World
Baseball Classic, which Japan won last year, and he has led
Japan's Pacific League in wins three times in an eight-year
career.


Fans said they will wait eagerly to see how Matsuzaka fares
against other Japanese giants in the Major Leagues -- such as
slugger Hideki Matsui of Boston's rival New York Yankees and
Seattle Mariners star Ichiro Suzuki.


"Ichiro couldn't win against Matsuzaka in Japan, so I'm excited
to see whether he can in the US," said Takeshi Nakatsu, 51.

