

Japan will keep looking for ways to make amends to wartime sex
slaves after dissolving a compensation fund that was shunned by
most victims, the man who headed the fund said Friday.


The Asian Women's Fund was established in 1995 by a left-leaning
Japanese government to help former "comfort women," a euphemism
to describe those forced to provide sex to Japanese troops during
World War II.


Japan decided to scrap the fund at the end of the fiscal year
which closed last week after only a minuscule number of comfort
women accepted money.


"There are various reasons for the lack of achievement of this
fund in this regard, which is regretful," Haruki Wada, the fund's
last executive director, told a news conference.


The fund was dissolved after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last month
denied that Japanese troops directly coerced comfort women. Abe
later backtracked, saying he stood by a landmark 1993 apology to
the women.


"Since Prime Minister Abe declared clearly he supports the 1993
statement, I think the consensus of the Japanese people has been
preserved," Wada said.


"Therefore, I expect that efforts based on this consensus will
continue," he said. "Our efforts of seeking reconciliation with
Asian neighbours while facing up to the problems of the past will
continue."


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan and the
Netherlands, were forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army
brothels.


A mere 364 former comfort women accepted payment from the Asian
Women's Fund.


The fund uses donations collected from the Japanese public, while
the government gave money for accompanying medical and welfare
programmes and other administrative costs.


Because it uses private money, critics say that the Japanese
government is not taking responsibility.


Although the fund has dissolved, Wada said Tokyo would still find
a way to offer compensation to women in North Korea, which has
tense ties with Japan.


"The fund couldn't compensate women in North Korea because Japan
and North Korea don't have diplomatic ties. I think this will be
handled by the Japanese government from now on," he said.

