

Worried US pet owners are tossing aside the can-opener to pamper
their pets with home-made delights whizzed up in their kitchens,
amid a rash of cat and dog deaths from contaminated animal food.


Sales of recipe books for tasty pet chow have soared since US
experts confirmed last month that they had found melamine, a
substance used in Asian fertilizers, in a range of foods
manufactured by Menu Foods.


So panicked owners, hounded by fears for their pets, are taking
matters into their own hands.


Such collectable titles as "The Good Food Cookbook for Dogs" by
Donna Roberts, and "Real Food For Dogs" by Arden Moore have been
rescued from relative obscurity and are dashing up the best
seller lists.


"Normally my book was a steady, but not glamorous seller on
Amazon," said an amazed Moore, referring to the popular Internet
website.


"This week it's among the top 200 sellers on the site," she said,
adding that before the panic her book languished at about
52,000th place.


And if owners resemble their pets, then why not eat like them
too, Moore argues, saying some of the recipes will even make
humans drool with dishes such as "Marvellous Mutt Meatballs,"
"Canine Casserole" or for those colder days "Chow Hound Chicken
Soup."


"Two-thirds of the recipes are quite tasty for us so it can be a
money and time saver in the kitchen," she argued in a radio
interview.


"There's definitely been a spike in the sales of the book.
Several hundreds, which can be traced back to when they recalled
the food," agreed Susan Hershberg, from Quayside Publishing which
publishes Roberts's cookbook.


But those whose love for their animals doesn't extend to chopping
up innards on the kitchen table, are seeking alternative, costly
brands of organic or holistic pet foods.


"It's kind of been a gradual thing. Three or four people a day"
are turning to organic brands, said David White, manager of the
Big Bad Woof store in Takoma Park, Maryland.


He added there were often dual reasons for the switch "whether
out of fear of contaminated food or they are just sick of the way
that these companies operate so they just don't want give out
their money any more."


The Food and Drug Administration has received more than 8,000
complaints from consumers whose pets have fallen ill or died
after eating contaminated food.


Reports from Oregon on Thursday said another 38 cats and dogs had
died across the state and 70 had been taken ill after being
poisoned by contaminated food.


The outbreak of pet poisonings forced the Canada-based Menu Foods
to recall pet products sold under 95 different brands in the US,
Canada and Mexico.


And after tests, the FDA confirmed that it had found melamine,
also used in the manufacture of plastics, in wheat gluten
imported from China and used in the Menu Foods products.


On Thursday the company announced its recall would be expanded to
include 20 more products it sells, all manufactured with wheat
gluten supplied by a company that imported its wheat gluten from
Wangdien, China.


China's quarantine watchdog has denied US accusations of
importing contaminated wheat, with one official telling the
official People's Daily: "The poisoning of US pets has nothing to
do with China."


The activist group People For the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PETA) has also argued the source of contamination could be
something completely different.


"An excessive amount of vitamin D3 in pet food may be to blame,"
said vice- president Bruce Friederich, calling for further FDA
investigations.


Whatever the cause, it seems for the time being pampered pooches
and pussycats will be getting a lot of cupboard love from their
owners.

