

Teenage girls in Cambodia and Indonesia have died of bird flu as
the virus continues to stalk across Asia, the region hardest-hit
since the disease emerged in 2003, health officials said Friday.


A 13-year-old girl died Thursday in eastern Cambodia along the
Vietnam border after eating a sick chicken, the health ministry
and the World Health Organisation said in a statement.


Hers was Cambodia's seventh fatality from the disease, and the
first case this year.


Impoverished Cambodia has been lightly hit by the highly
pathogenic H5N1 virus, compared to Southeast Asian neighbours
like Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand.


The 15-year-old girl who died Thursday in Jakarta was the 73rd
fatality in Indonesia, the country worst hit by the disease,
according to the national bird flu information centre.


Another man showing bird flu symptoms died Wednesday in Solo,
about 500 kilometres (300 miles) from Jakarta. Tests are still
under way to confirm if he had the virus.


Experts were still trying to determine how the Indonesian girl
had caught the virus, but most human infections have occurred
after contact with sick birds.


The government has banned the popular practice of keeping
chickens in backyards in Jakarta to try and curb the disease's
spread.


Both Cambodia and Indonesia dispatched teams of experts to areas
around the girls' homes to search for birds or people showing
signs of the disease.


In Jakarta the deputy director of the hospital where the girl was
being treated said that so far, none of her family were showing
symptoms.


"There are (pet) birds in her house but they are not sick,"
Sardikin Giriputro told AFP.


"Two surveillance teams are now working to see if the virus is
present elsewhere in her neighbourhood," he added.


In Cambodia the health ministry has already received reports of
sick birds in the region where the victim lived.


Although the kingdom has been praised for its rapid action
against bird flu, health officials have long feared the virus
could go undetected in the countless small family farms where
most of Cambodia's poultry are raised.


The last reported outbreak here was in September, but officials
have warned that smuggled poultry poses a threat.


The World Health Organisation says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu has infected 288 people and killed around 170 of them, mostly
in Southeast Asia, since 2003.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

