

The coalition of parties supporting Benin's President Boni Yayi
was leading in parliamentary elections with over 93 percent of
the vote counted, the central election commission said Thursday.


The coalition of some 20 parties backing Yayi, Cauri Forces for
an Emerging Benin, was in lead with 22.5 percent of the vote,
followed by the Alliance for Dynamism and Democracy of former
president Necephore Soglo at 16.9 percent.


Some four million out of Benin's population of 7.9 million were
eligible to cast ballots in Saturday's election of 83 members of
parliament among 2,158 candidates representing 24 parties or
coalitions of parties.


Voter participation was put at nearly 59 percent, below estimates
published by many newspapers.


The president of the central election committee, Eugene Capo-
Chichi, said definitive results would be submitted to the
Constitutional Court within days.


The delay in announcing election results has fueled suspicion of
fraud, with several parties threatening Thursday to demand the
annulation of the election.


The election is being political yardstick for Yayi, a former
development banker and a virtual political unknown when he was
the surprise winner of the presidential poll in March last year.


Elected with 74 percent of the vote, Yayi made economic growth
and the fight against corruption among the major planks of his
campaign.


On voting day Yayi said that the polls were "a step towards the
rule of law, a step towards the construction of a major democracy
in the service of a nation strengthened in the search for
prosperity."


Yayi inherited one of the world's poorest nations. Benin,
sandwiched between Nigeria and Togo, has few commercial crops
except cotton and that sector is currently in difficulty.


The country's economic crisis as a whole has been consistently
aggravated by corruption and poor management of public funds.


The new president is popular with the man in the street but his
anti-corruption drive, and notably the audits he has ordered into
60 state-run companies, have made him unpopular with some of the
old guard.


He took over from General Mathieu Kerekou, who had dominated the
political scene in Benin for the past 30 years, first as a
military ruler and then as a democratically-elected head of
state.


A few weeks ago the president's convoy came under attack north of
the capital. He himself was unharmed but four members of the
presidential guard were wounded.

