

Harry Potter fans take note: scientists have finally come up with
a workable design for an invisibility cloak.


Physicists figured out the complex mathematical equations for
making objects invisible by bending light around them last year.


Now a group of engineers at Purdue University in Indiana has used
those calculations to design a relatively simple device that may
one day be be able to make objects as big as an airplane
disappear.


The design calls for tiny metal needles to be fitted into a cone
like a hairbrush, at angles and lengths that would force light to
pass around it. This would make everything inside the cone appear
to vanish because the light would no longer reflect off it.


"It looks pretty much like fiction, I do realize, but it's
completely in agreement with the laws of physics," said lead
researcher Vladimir Shalaev, a professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Purdue.


"Ideally, if we make it real it would work exactly like Harry
Potter's invisibility cloak," he said. "It's not going to be
heavy because there's going to be very little metal in it."


The still-theoretical design will be published this month in the
journal Nature Photonics.


Shaleav said he needs to secure funding to build the device and
expects it would take two to three years to come up with a
working prototype.


The major limitation is that the current design can only bend the
light of a single wave-length at a time, and does not work with
the entire frequency range of the visible spectrum.


"How to create a design that works for all colors of visible
light at the same time will be a big technical challenge, but we
believe it's possible," Shalaev said. "In principal it's doable."


Even blocking a single frequency can lead to useful applications,
Shaleav said.


The cloak could shield soldiers from night-vision goggles which
use only one wavelength of light. It could also be used to hide
objects from "laser designators" used by the military to
illuminate a target, he said.

