

Alleged smuggling kingpin Lai Changxing won a reprieve from
deportation as Canada's Federal Court on Thursday ordered a
review of his risk of being tortured in China.


An earlier Canadian decision to return Lai to China failed to
address whether he would be tortured once there, the court ruled.


"I do not doubt the good faith of the Chinese government," wrote
judge Yves de Montigny. But, he concluded, the earlier Canadian
report on Lai's deportation "is deficient in its assessment of
the risk of torture."


"It's a major victory for Mr. Lai," his lawyer, David Matas, told
a news conference in this Canadian West Coast city.


Matas, a leading Canadian human rights lawyer, said the ruling
was "of global significance," because Canada cannot merely accept
another country's word that it does not use torture.


"I'm happy," said Lai in broken English, sitting beside Matas in
a downtown hotel.


Lai, his ex-wife, Tsang Ming Na, and their three children arrived
in Canada in 1999 and applied for refugee status in 2000.


Over the following seven years, China has repeatedly asked Canada
to return Lai, alleging that Lai and Tsang ran a criminal ring in
southern China that bribed government officials and smuggled as
much as 10 billion US dollars of luxury goods.


However, Lai has become both an international human rights cause
and the source of a bitter issue that China cites during trade or
political talks with Canada.


While Canadian authorities have agreed that Lai and his wife are
"common criminals" and should be sent back, Canada's courts have
blocked their return largely over of human rights concerns.


Canada does not impose capital punishment or torture, and does
not deport transients to face trial in countries that do.


In response, China promised in an unusual diplomatic note not to
execute or torture Lai if he is sent back.


But Matas, a specialist in human rights law, argues that China
has promised not to torture under a UN convention. "And they
still torture. So what do these diplomatic notes mean?"


The Canadian government is expected to appeal.


Either procedure would take at least another 10 months, said
Matas.

