

AFP news calendar


Monday, April 9 to Sunday, May 6:


---------------------------------


Monday, April 9


---------------


BAGHDAD: Fourth anniversary of the downfall of Saddam Hussein's
regime in Iraq.


BANGKOK: Vietnamese-American Vo Duc Van appears in a Bangkok
court on charges of trying to blow up the Vietnamese embassy here
in 2001.


DILI: East Timor presidential election.


DOHA: Two-day forum for gas exporting countries where a gas
cartel could be announced.


KHARTOUM: Sweden's minister for international development
cooperation, Gunilla Carlsson, to meet with Sudanese authorities
in Khartoum before traveling to Darfur to probe the humanitarian
situation there.


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays, each week).


PARIS: Campaigning officially gets underway for first round of
French presidential election.


SINGAPORE: Government to announce details of a salary hike for
cabinet ministers and senior civil servants.


TALLINN: Swiss President and Foreign Minister Micheline Calmy-Rey
visits Estonia.


TEHRAN: Iran celebrates a "day of nuclear technology" to mark the
first anniversary of its enrichment of uranium to 3.5 percent.


TOKYO: Bank of Japan begins two-day policy board meeting.


TOKYO: Japan and India to hold second round of talks on free-
trade deal (until April 12)


TOKYO/SEOUL: Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki continues visit
to Japan and South Korea to sign economic agreements.


VIMY, France: Ceremony marking the 90th anniversary of the battle
of Vimy, won back from the Germans by Canadian troops. Queen
Elizabeth II of Britain and the French and Canadian prime
ministers to attend.


Tuesday, April 10


-----------------


COPENHAGEN: WHO Director General Margaret Chan visits, to take
part in a conference on women and health in developing countries.


HANOVER, Germany: World's biggest industrial fair opens (to 20).


LIBREVILLE: Launching of Gabon's new private airline, Gabon
Airlines, to replace the former public company Air Gabon.


RIGA: Informal meeting of eight European presidents to discuss
the future of Europe.


SANTIAGO: Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico begins South
American tour.


SEOUL: Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits South Korea (and 11).


SEOUL: Red Cross officials from North and South Korea meet at
Mount Kumgang in the North to discuss those who went missing
during or after the Korean War (to 12).


STRASBOURG: The European Court of Human Rights to deliver verdict
in the case of a British woman blocked by her ex-partner from
using frozen embryos.


TOKYO: Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui holds a press
conference following policy board decision.


Wednesday, April 11


-------------------


AMMAN: The trial continues of three suspected Islamists accused
of conspiring to assassinate US President George W. Bush during a
visit to Jordan last year.


BISHKEK: Opposition demonstration in Kyrgyz capital.


BRASILIA: Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico continues South
American tour.


CANNES, France: Pan-African film festival, presenting about 50
films (to 15).


COPENHAGEN: A Danish court to decide whether 26 Danes are
entitled to sue Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, whom they
accuse of violating the constitution by involving Denmark in the
war on Iraq.


GENEVA: WTO's dispute settlement body meets to discuss an EU
complaint against India over high duties imposed on imported
wines and spirits.


RABAT: Trial of two British suspects in Kent robbery.


TALLINN: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits (and 12).


TOKYO: Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits Japan (to 13).


VATICAN CITY: Polish Foreign Minister Anna Fotyga visits (and
12).


WARSAW: Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey visits.


Thursday, April 12


------------------


BUENOS AIRES: Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico continues
South American tour (to 15).


DHAKA: Tareque Rahman, high-profile son of ex-premier Khaleda
Zia, appears in court on extortion allegations.


JERUSALEM: Syrian-American pacifist Ibrahim Abe Suleiman, who
reportedly helped create an informal peace deal between the
Israelis and Syrians in 2004, takes part in a meeting of the
Israeli parliament's foreign affairs and defence commission.


KIEV: Lithuanian Prime Minister Gediminas Kirkilas visits (and
13).


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian state of Malacca holds key by-election
for seat vacated in state assembly


TALLINN: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits.


WARSAW: Moroccan Prime Minister Driss Jettou visits (and 13).


Friday, April 13


----------------


BANGKOK: Thai markets close for Buddhist New Year (to 16).


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council to hear charges
registered by President Pervez Musharraf against Chief Justice
Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.


LISBON: European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso visits
the Portugese parliament.


OSLO: Swedish astronaut Christer Fuglesang and his team on the
Discovery space shuttle mission hold a press conference.


RABAT: Trial over stolen palace china continues.


WARSAW: An American Jewish Congress delegation visits.


WARSAW: Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt visits.


YANGON: Myanmar begins its annual Water Festival, the only time
of year when people are allowed to move freely on the streets (to
17).


Saturday, April 14


------------------


ABUJA: Nigerian state governorship and assembly elections.


CARACAS: South America's first energy summit begins (and 15).


COLOMBO: Sri Lanka marks traditional Sinhala and Tamil New Year.


DHAKA: Bangladesh celebrates start of the Bengali New Year.


MOSCOW: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


OUAGADOUGOU: Beginning of campaign ahead of Burkina Faso's
legislative elections on May 6.


PHNOM PENH: Cambodia begins New Year celebrations.


SEOUL: Deadline for North Korea to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear
reactor as part of a February 13 nuclear disarmament agreement.


TBILISI: Polish President Lech Kaczynski visits Georgia (and 15).


Sunday, April 15


-----------------


HONG KONG: Hong Kong Film Awards.


JERUSALEM: Israel marks Holocaust memorial day.


JERUSALEM: Polish Foreign Minister Anna Fotyga visits (to 18).


SAINT PETERSBURG: Russian opposition party Other Russia stages
demonstration.


TOKYO: Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi visits Japan (to 17).


QUITO: Referendum on a reform of Ecuador's constitution.


Monday, April 16


----------------


ANKARA: Parliament begins accepting candidacy applications for
presidential elections in May.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia opens trial of Macedonian former interior minister
Ljube Boskovski, accused of war crimes over the killings of
ethnic Albanians during an uprising.


HELSINKI: End of official negotiations on the formation of a new
Finnish government.


LONDON: Trial opens of Levi Bellfield, suspected of having
murdered French student Amelie Delagrange in London in August
2004, and of the kidnap and attempted murder of five other women.


LONDON: Trial at the Old Bailey of five men accused of having
hidden information on terrorist attacks.


LUXEMBOURG: EU agriculture ministers meet (and 17).


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays each week).


MOGADISHU: Beginning of a national conference of reconciliation,
which over the next two months will bring together 3,000
delegates representing civil society players in an attempt to
find a political solution to the ongoing civil war.


STRASBOURG: Council of Europe parliamentary assembly (to 20).


VATICAN CITY: Pope Benedict XVI marks his 80th birthday.


Tuesday, April 17


-----------------


GENEVA: International conference on displaced people in Iraq,
organised by UN High Commissioner for Refugees (and 18).


HELSINKI: Finland's new prime minister to be confirmed in
parliament.


MADRID: European conference on biofuel (and 18).


OSLO: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits (and 18).


ROME: Opening of trial of US marine Mario Lozano for the fatal
shooting in Iraq in March 2005 of an Italian secret agent.


SINGAPORE: World Continuity Congress on business continuity and
disaster recovery (and 18).


Wednesday, April 18


-------------------


HARARE: President Robert Mugabe to make keynote speech as
Zimbabwe celebrates 27th anniversary of independence.


SINGAPORE: Singapore International Film Festival (to 30)


TEHRAN: Iran marks army day as the armed forces stage a march
paying tribute to the shrine of revolutionary founder Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini.


WARSAW: Czech President Vaclav Klaus visits (and 19).


Thursday, April 19


------------------


AIX LA CHAPELLE, France: Informal meeting of EU health ministers
(and 20).


BANGKOK: Thai military government plans to unveil new draft
constitution.


BEIRUT: Belgian Defence Minister Andre Flahaut and heir to the
throne Prince Philippe visit Lebanon (and 20).


BERGEN, Norway: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits.


BERLIN: Informal meeting of EU Finance ministers (and 20).


BRUSSELS: Opening of trial of a Rwandan soldier for the 1994
killing of Rwandan prime minister Agathe Uwililgiymana and 10 UN
soldiers who were protecting him.


HELSINKI: Finnish President Tarja Halonen to appoint a new
government.


LONDON: Verdict expected on extradition of a former Iranian
ambassador, who is accused of trying to sell American military
material to Iran.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that claimed 257
lives.


NOUAKCHOTT: Mauritania's newly elected president sworn in,
marking the final stage in transition from military to civilian
rule.


OSLO: Conference on gender equality among the Sami people (and
20).


RHODES, Greece: Conference of European ministers and secretaries
of state in charge of EU affairs to discuss "a new policy on the
sea (and 20).


SINGAPORE: UN Environment Programme hosts summit on rising market
risks and business opportunities resulting from climate change
(and 20)


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of election of Pope Benedict
XVI.


Friday, April 20


----------------


LISBON: Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski visits.


LONDON: French Film Festival opens (to 26).


OHRID, Macedonia: Annual meeting of southeastern European
countries' presidents to discuss long-term energy stability and
economic development.


RABAT: Trial of two Belgians of Moroccan origin on terrorism
charges.


Saturday April 21


----------------


ABUJA: Presidential and legislative elections.


LONDON: Queen Elizabeth celebrates 81st birthday. (Official
celebrations will be June 17.)


Sunday, April 22


----------------


PARIS: First round of presidential election.


DAMASCUS: Syria holds legislative election.


SANAA: Yemeni appeal court to rule in the case of 23 nationals
sentenced to jail for trying to get to Iraq to join the
insurgency.


TRIPOLI: The trial resumes of six foreign medics on death row in
a Libyan AIDS case who face new charges of slandering police they
accuse of torture.


OKINAWA, Japan: Japan holds two by-elections for upper house of
parliament


Monday, April 23


----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel celebrates Independence Day marking the 59th
anniversary of the state's founding in 1948.


LONDON: Preliminary trial of pop star George Michael, who stands
accused of having driven while under the influence of drugs.


LUXEMBOURG: EU foreign ministers meeting.


SINGAPORE: An arbitration court to hear a dispute between
Singapore Airlines and its pilots over pay scales on the Airbus
A380.


STRASBOURG: European parliament session (to 26).


TALLINN: Slovakian Defence Minister Frantisek Kasicky visits (and
24).


Tuesday, April 24


----------------


CAIRO: Egypt football giants Ahly, Africa's top club, host
Barcelona as part of their centennial celebrations.


KATHMANDU: One-year anniversary of 2006 Nepal protests that led
to King Gyanendra ending his direct rule. Declared a national
"Democracy Day" holiday.


LUXEMBOURG: EU-Russia meeting.


YEREVAN: Day of commemoration of Armenian genocide. Declared a
national "Democracy Day" holiday.


Wednesday, April 25


-------------------


PARIS: World Water Congress (to 28).


SANTIAGO: Second South American meeting of the World Economic
Forum (and 26).


STRASBOURG: Council of Europe holds international conference on
terrorism, with 250 participants including from the UN and Club
of Madrid (and 26).


Thursday, April 26


----------------


GUERNICA, Spain: 70th anniversary of bombing of Guernica.


KUALA LUMPUR: Coronation of Malaysia's new king Tuanku Mizan
Zainal Abidin.


OSLO: Informal meeting of NATO foreign ministers (and 27).


RIGA: Belgian King Albert II visits.


TOKYO: Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko hold a spring garden
party at Akasaka Imperial Gardens.


WASHINGTON: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits (and 27).


WURZBURG, Germany: Informal meeting of European ministers in
charge of issues of competition (to 28).


Friday, April 27


----------------


FES, Morocco: Sufi music festival.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia holds status conference for trial of Ante Gotovina and
two other Croat generals charged with war crimes committed at the
end of the 1991-1995 Serb-Croat War.


PARIS: Campaigning opens officially for the second round of the
presidential election.


WARSAW: Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf visits (to 29).


WINDSOR, Britain: An exhibit opens in connection with Queen
Elizabeth II and Prince Philip's 60th wedding anniversary,
showing five royal marriages through photographs and documents
from the royal archives.


Saturday, April 28


------------------


CAIRO: Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's son Gamal marries
Khadiga el-Gammal, followed by celebrations on May 4.


Sunday, April 29


----------------


BAMAKO: First round of presidential election.


Monday, April 30


----------------


BELFAST: Smoking ban goes into effect in all public places and
workplaces in Northern Ireland.


PHNOM PENH: Foreign and Cambodian Khmer Rouge tribunal judges
meet in last ditch bid to approve internal rules needed for
genocide trials to go forward.


VIENNA: A preparatory committee of the parties to the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty hold a first session ahead of a 2010
review of the treaty (to May 11).


Wednesday, May 2


----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel's disgraced President Moshe Katsav presents his
defence on charges including rape and sexual harassment to the
attorney general who will then make a definitive decision on an
indictment.


Thursday, May 3


---------------


EDINBURGH: Scottish parliamentary elections.


LONDON: British municipal elections.


CARDIFF: Welsh parliamentary elections.


Saturday, May 5


---------------


LISBON and PORTO: Demonstration for the legalisation of
marijuana.


Sunday, May 6


-------------


PARIS: Second round of French presidential election.


LISBON: Madeira regional elections.

