

India's Jeev Milkha Singh made an astonishing debut at the
Masters here Thursday, briefly snatching the lead in the opening
round before settling for a share of 10th on level-par 72.


Singh, the first player from his homeland to compete at Augusta
National Golf Club in the year's first major championship, was
only three strokes behind co- leaders Justin Rose of England and
American Brett Wetterich.


Shrugging aside early jitters, Singh charged to three-under par
after the front nine to stand alone atop the leaderboard but slid
back with four bogeys against a lone birdie on the back nine.


"I was excited with the way I played," Singh said. "I was nervous
on the first tee but I played pretty good on the front nine,
shooting three under where I holed a lot of putts.


"On the back nine, I didn't make too many putts but that's OK.
I'm pretty happy with my first round at Augusta National.


"When I was growing up, I've always dreamed about playing in the
Masters. And I've done that today," said Singh, the Asian Tour's
Order of Merit winner last season.


Singh holed a six-foot par putt on the opening hole to settle the
nerves and then sank in his first birdie of the day at the fourth
hole from 10 feet.


Singh chipped in for birdie on the sixth and then sank long putts
on the next three holes, salvaging pars at seven and nine around
a birdie at eight. But Singh did not even see his moment atop the
leaderboard.


"I didn't look at the leaderboard," he said. "The first time I
looked at it was at the 11th and I saw that I was on the
leaderboard and it felt pretty good."


With winds swirling and the flags tucked in corners, Singh
dropped three bogeys over the next five holes before he stopped
the trouble with a birdie on 15.


Another bogey on the last hole from the middle of the fairway
failed to dampen his spirits.


"You have to play smart golf on the greens here. You can't lose
your patience. That's the key," Singh said. "Some of the pins,
you just don't go for it. My plan is to go for the middle of the
green all week."


Asked if winning the Masters would make him more famous than his
father, an Olympic runner, he replied: "Yes, for sure. It would
be big if I can win it here. Some times, people also think that
I'm Vijay's brother or son."


Singh is neither, totally unrelated to the Fijian star.

