

Global media watchdog Reporters Without Borders said Friday it
was concerned by Thailand's decision to block the video-sharing
website YouTube over clips mocking the nation's king.


The popular website has been blocked in Thailand since Wednesday
after the government failed to suppress a video deemed insulting
to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, regarded by many Thais as semi-
divine.


Since then more videos have cropped up on the site mocking the
king but also taking aim at Thailand's strict lese majeste law,
which authorities rigorously enforce against anyone deemed to
have insulted the monarch.


"The Thai government claims that it censors only pornographic
websites or those that 'insult' the monarchy, but in fact it also
blocks online publications that criticise last September's coup
and websites linked to southern Thailand's separatist groups,"
Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said.


"We wonder about the legal basis for this censorship, initiated
by the government and implemented with diligence by the police,"
it said.


"The closure or blockage of an online publication is a serious
decision that should require a court order."


The watchdog also praised YouTube and its parent company Google
for refusing to comply with the government's requests to remove
the video.


But the group also accused Google of double standards because of
its Chinese- language site, which is censored according to the
wishes of China's propaganda chiefs.


"We support their refusal to censor themselves in Thailand but we
ask them to harmonise their international policy on censorship,"
the group said.


"Is it logical to censor pro-democracy websites in China because
it is a vital market, and at the same time to oppose the removal
of a few videos making fun of the king?"


Major Internet companies including Google announced in January
that they were teaming up with rights groups like RSF to develop
ways of protecting civil liberties online.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch and one of the few still
protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult to the royal
family.


The ban came a week after a Swiss man was jailed here for 10
years for insulting the king afer he vandalised portraits of the
monarch during a drunken spree.

