

Japanese share prices may be range-bound over the coming week as
profit-taking and nervousness about the health of the US economy
puts the brakes on the recent rally, dealers said Friday.


"Since prices have recovered well from last month's slump,
players -- particularly individual investors -- are expected to
cash in by selling their shareholdings next week," said Norihiro
Fujito, a senior analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.


"Investors are, at the same time, trying to buy selected stocks
based on each firm's corporate performance," Fujito said.
"Therefore, the Nikkei index is largely expected to stay in a
limited range next week."


For the week to April 6, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 index gained 197.13 points or 1.14 percent to
17,484.78, reversing the previous week's 1.10 percent decline.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section companies rose 3.47
points or 0.20 percent to 1,717.08, following a 1.63 percent
decline the previous week.


Investors will be paying close attention to US jobs data which
was due out later Friday, a critical indicator on the world's
largest economy, dealers said.


"All eyes are on the jobless data," said Hirokazu Fujiki, a
strategist at Okasan Securities.


"Prospects for the US economy have long been a shared concern
among financial players," Fujiki said.


Non-farm payrolls were expected to show a rise of about 135,000
in March after a 97,000 gain in February, according to Wall
Street forecasts.


Financial markets remain cautious following a slew of weak
figures which have fanned jitters over the pace of the US
economic slowdown, dealers said.


The market will also be tracking moves on the foreign exchange
market amid worries about the impact of any appreciation of the
yen on the earnings of Japanese exporters, they said.


"We also have to keep an eye on foreign exchange rates next week
although they have been relatively steady for the past week,"
Fujiki said.


"The ECB (European Central Bank) is expected to raise interest
rates in the eurozone sooner or later, which will send the yen
lower and have a positive impact on Japanese exporters," he
added.


Japan's low interest rates have encouraged investors to borrow
cheaply in yen to put into higher yielding assets elsewhere,
pushing down the value of the Japanese currency, analysts say.

