

How the action has unfolded so far in the 2007 World Cup:


March 11


Sir Garfield Sobers opens the ninth World Cup at a colourful
ceremony in Trelawny.


March 12


Australia skipper Ricky Ponting hits back at Sunil Gavaskar after
the former India captain said the Aussies were unpopular winners.
Ponting says Gavaskar is 'high and mighty'.


March 13


West Indies beat Pakistan by 54 runs at Sabina Park in the
tournament opener. Gavaskar won't relent in his attacks saying he
wouldn't be surprised if an Aussie got 'whacked' in a bar.


March 14


Australia crush Scotland by 203 runs to get their title defence
off to a flying start with skipper Ricky Ponting hitting his 23rd
career one-day century. Kenya beat Canada by seven wickets.


March 15


Sri Lanka beat Bermuda by 243 runs, the second biggest winning
margin in World Cup history, but fellow debutants Ireland clinch
a thrilling last ball tie with Zimbabwe. Former Zimbabwe star
Andy Flower calls for sporting sanctions against the Mugabe
regime.


March 16


Herschelle Gibbs makes history by becoming the first player to
hit six sixes in an over in an international one-dayer as South
Africa pile up 353 in just 40 overs to beat the Dutch by 221
runs. New Zealand beat England by six wickets.


March 17


Sensational Saturday as Ireland beat Pakistan by three wickets to
send the 1992 champions out of the tournament. Bangladesh secure
only their second win over India with a five-wicket triumph.


March 18


Tournament rocked by death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer who was
found unconscious on floor of his hotel room. Woolmer had told of
the stresses of the job in the light of his side's defeat to
Ireland. Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul- Haq quits one-day cricket
and gives up captaincy. On the field, England beat Canada but
Andrew Flintoff dropped and stripped of vice-captaincy. Australia
crush Netherlands by 229 runs to reach the Super Eights.


March 19


India beat Bermuda by 257 runs, the biggest winning margin in the
history of one-dayers, after making 413-5, the highest ever World
Cup total. West Indies become the second team through to next
round with six-wicket win against Zimbabwe.


March 20


Jamaican police say they are treating Woolmer death as suspicious
after autopsy proves inconclusive. On the field, New Zealand
reach the Super Eights with a win against Kenya while South
Africa also coast into the second round with a win over Scotland


March 21


Ireland make sure of a historic place in the Super Eights after
Pakistan beat Zimbabwe. Sri Lanka are virtually assured of their
spot in the second round with a comprehensive win against
Bangladesh. Overnight, rumours circulate that Woolmer may have
been strangled.


March 22


Police in Jamaica say Woolmer was strangled to death and a murder
hunt is under way. Despite the murder, the ICC says the
tournament will continue. New Zealand secure a third win with
victory over Kenya while Scotland end with the Group A wooden
spoon after losing to the Netherlands.


March 23


Pakistan team all provide DNA samples in the Woolmer
investigation as speculation increases that the death was linked
to match-fixing. India are on the verge of being knocked out
after losing to Sri Lanka, their second defeat in three matches.
West Indies cruise past Ireland by eight wickets.


March 24


Inzamam and assistant coach Mushtaq Ahmed questioned in the
Woolmer investigation, but both insist it is routine and they
leave for home later in the day with the rest of the team.
Australia beat South Africa by 83 runs while England make the
Super Eights with a comfortable win over Kenya.


March 25


Bangladesh beat Bermuda by seven wickets to reach the Super
Eights for the first time and condemn India to an early exit.


March 26


Rest day at the tournament. Investigation into Woolmer murder
goes on with Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields, the
man leading the hunt, believing that it's highly unlikely a local
was responsible for the slaying.


March 27


Second round Super Eights get underway. Matthew Hayden makes 158,
the highest World Cup score by an Australian, as his team piles
up 322 against West Indies in Antigua but rain forces match into
reserve day.


March 28


Australia complete a 103-run win over West Indies. South Africa
secure a nervy one-wicket win over Sri Lanka in a match which
sees Lasith Malinga make history by becoming the first bowler to
take four wickets in four balls in an international game.


March 29


West Indies face elimination from the tournament after losing by
seven wickets to New Zealand. Captain Brian Lara forced to defend
selection policy after Andy Roberts, the former Test bowler,
claims that the five-man selection panel has had little input
into the team.


March 30


England defeat Ireland by 48 runs in their opening Super Eights
match with Paul Collingwood hitting 90. The fallout from India's
disastrous World Cup continues with Ian Chappell telling Sachin
Tendulkar it's time to quit while Anil Kumble retires from one-
day cricket.


March 31


Australia defeat Bangladesh by 10 wickets in a rain-affected
match in Antigua where ground staff struggled to get the outfield
playable and were reduced at one stage to using old sponges to
soak up excess water. Glenn McGrath takes 3-16 and becomes the
World Cup's most successful bowler with 57 career victims.


April 1


Sanath Jayasuriya hits his 25th one-day international century as
Sri Lanka inflict a third successive defeat on the West Indies.
Former Windies fast bowler Michael Holding calls for Brian Lara
to step down as skipper. In Lahore, meanwhile, a memorial service
is held for Bob Woolmer.


April 2


New Zealand maintain their perfect record with a nine-wicket
cruise past Bangladesh. In Kingston, the investigation into the
death of Woolmer drags on with detectives revealing they are
studying the possibility that poison was used to incapacitate the
Pakistan coach before he was strangled.


April 3


South Africa beat Ireland by seven wickets at Guyana where there
was another poor attendance. Worried by the fallout from the
elimination of India and Pakistan, tourist chiefs in Barbados,
where the two had been scheduled to play, set-up a task force to
try and entice fans from other countries.


April 4


Greg Chappell resigns as India coach following the World Cup
debacle. In Antigua, Sri Lanka secure a last-ball, two-run win
over England which boost their semi-final hopes. A memorial
service is held for Woolmer in Cape Town.


April 5


Rest day in the Super Eights. Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore
admits he would be interested in the vacant India coach's job

