

High-priced Japanese import Daisuke Matsuzaka lived up to his
billing in his Major League Baseball debut.


Matsuzaka was brilliant in his highly anticipated major league
debut, working seven strong innings to lead the Boston Red Sox to
a 4-1 victory over the Kansas City Royals.


"Well, up to now, given all the expectations that have surrounded
me, I felt happy about those expectations, at the same time
feeling that perhaps they were a little bit extreme," Matsuzaka
said. "Speaking for myself and for all the fans that have
supported me here, it's great that I was able to come out here
and record a victory in my first start."


The Red Sox made headlines this offseason when they posted a
record-setting 51 million-dollar bid for exclusive negotiating
rights with Matsuzaka, who agreed to terms on a six-year deal
reportedly worth 52 million dollars in December.


The 26-year-old gave the Red Sox a hefty early return on their
investment, yielding only one run and six hits with one walk and
10 strikeouts. He threw 74 of 108 pitches for strikes.


The Japanese righthander has been surrounded by a tremendous
amount of fanfare since arriving in the United States this past
winter, drawing unprecedented media attention for a foreign
pitcher while immediately elevating the Red Sox to a preseason
favorite to make the playoffs.


"It was really such a normal day for me," Matsuzaka said. "It's a
day I've been waiting for for a very long time, but even given
that fact, it felt surprisingly normal."


After allowing a leadoff single to David DeJesus in the first
inning, Matsuzaka retired 11 of the next 12 batters he faced and
struck out five over that span.


Matsuzaka did not run into trouble until the sixth.


With Kansas City trailing 2-0, DeJesus led off with a homer to
right field and Esteban German followed with an infield single.


But the rally bid stalled when Mark Teahen struck out and German
was caught stealing on the same play. Emil Brown ripped a two-out
double, but Matsuzaka escaped further damage by striking out
rookie Alex Gordon to end the threat.


"Major League hitters, after you go through the order once or
twice, get a bead on you," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said.
"He didn't let them. He started throwing different pitches in
different counts. In the fifth inning, they hit a couple of balls
hard. He came back in the sixth and seventh and was as good as he
was early."


Matsuzaka's ability to adjust means catcher Jason Varitek has to
do the same.


"The toughest thing for me is to adapt to his style, just try to
figure out what it is," Varitek said. "Thinking ahead is my job,
because he doesn't get locked into a particular pitch depending
on the count."


Matsuzaka overshadowed a solid season debut for Royals starter
Zack Greinke, who allowed two runs - one earned - and eight hits
in seven innings.


The righthander walked one and struck out seven, throwing
64-of-101 pitches for strikes.


Lefthander J.C. Romero logged a scoreless eighth while Jonathan
Papelbon worked the ninth to record his first save of the season
for the Red Sox, who won the rubber game of this three-game
series.


His next scheduled start will be his Fenway Park debut next
Wednesday against the Seattle Mariners, who feature Ichiro
Suzuki, Matsuzaka's teammate on the Japanese side that won the
inaugural World Baseball Classic last year.


Francona said he didn't expect there to be any letdown from
Matsuzaka next week.


"My guess is, after what I've seen in Spring Training and today,
that's how he pitches," Francona said. "Some pitchers, especially
young pitchers, every three or four outings, you'll see a gem.
And the other outings they can't command it and they lose. I
don't think you'll see that with this guy. I think that's the way
he pitches."

