

Thailand on Friday expressed outrage at the posting of new videos
mocking the country's revered king on the video-sharing website
YouTube, pledging to maintain a ban on the site.


The military-installed government banned YouTube this week after
it failed to block the first video deemed insulting to King
Bhumibol Adulyadej, regarded by many Thais as semi-divine.


One of the new clips showed pictures of the king that had been
digitally altered to make him resemble a monkey, and carried
messages saying Thailand's leaders are "evil and hate free
speech".


Another used an expletive to denounce the king and the
government.


"This group of people has found another outlet, taking another
action that is considered very offensive to the king," said
communications ministry spokesman Vissanu Meeyoo.


"Thailand doesn't want to take this kind of action. We are just
doing it temporarily," he said of the ban imposed on Tuesday.


The original video appeared to have been withdrawn by its
creator, with a notice on the site saying it had been "removed by
the user".


But more clips, posted by users with different screen names from
the original video creator, surfaced on Friday. The site was
accessed in Bangkok via a foreign server.


Like the first video, one of the new postings showed images of
the king's face covered with graffiti or juxtaposed with images
of feet, considered deeply offensive here.


Another titled "discussing the king" showed a young man saying
vaguely: "You'd think, from such a flamboyantly gay man, he'd be
more tolerant."


The controversy over the videos has generated heated debate in
online discussion forums.


"It's not that we hate free speech. What you are doing is not
free speech. It's an act of discrimination against our culture
and country," one YouTube user said.


Another responded to the videos by posting a Thai commercial that
showed people around the country discussing why they revere the
king.


But most responded with vitriol, accusing the creator of the
clips of racism or defamation in often vulgar terms.


The decision, however, to block the entire site has drew sharp
criticism from media freedom groups, who said it highlighted a
growing trend for the military government to censor political
expression on the Internet.


"It's another example of how silly and ineffective censorship
really is," said CJ Hinke, coordinator of the group Freedom
Against Censorship Thailand.


His group, which lobbies for an end to online censorship, says
Thailand's government has blocked a total of 45,000 websites.


About 85 percent of them are believed to be pornographic, but
Hinke said the government also bans political websites, including
discussions of the insurgency in Thailand's south.


Since the military seized power in a September coup, it has also
blocked political websites linked to ousted premier Thaksin
Shinawatra, other media rights groups say.


Thai officials planned to meet later Friday with an association
of Internet users to discuss ways of policing the Internet, the
communications ministry spokesman said.


"We need cooperation from Internet users to monitor these
groups," he added.


A spokeswoman for YouTube said in remarks e-mailed to AFP before
the new videos were posted that the company was "disappointed"
with Thailand's ban of the site.


"We have asked the government to lift the block, and we look
forward to the resumption of service to our Thai users,"
spokeswoman Julie Supan said.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult against
the royal family.


The ban came a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss man for 10
years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits during
a drunken spree.

