

Hundreds of scientists scrambled to finish Friday a landmark
report set to declare that climate change is already discernible
and could wreak devastation to human settlement and wildlife this
century.


Grouped in national delegations, the climate specialists worked
through the night in a European Commission conference room to
reach agreement on the document's all-important summary for
policy makers -- a guideline for government action -- ahead of
its scheduled release Friday morning.


Several sharp disagreements impeded progress, one Western
delegate said.


Whereas Europeans sought to include stronger language and hard
numbers warning about the dangers of global warming, the United
States favored general statements about trends, he said.


"The Europeans want to send a strong signal. The US does not want
as much quantification," he said during a break in the
negotiations, which have been underway since Monday.


China and Russia, he continued, have sought to remove some
passages from the summary asserting that climate change had
already had negative effects around the globe, arguing that the
data in the 1,400 word main study is not solid enough to be
included in the key policy document.


China, which is set to overtake the United States within the next
decade or so as the world's single largest emitter of carbon
dioxide, the main greenhouse gas driving global warming, is
coming under increasing pressure to curb its use of fossil fuels.


The body of the report, a copy of which was obtained by AFP,
predicts that damage to Earth's weather systems from greenhouse
gases will change rainfall patterns, punch up the power of
storms, boost the risk of drought, flooding and water stress and
accelerate the existing meltdown of glaciers and erosion of ice
sheets.


The prediction by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) are part of its first review in six years of the
evidence for man-made climate change.


Saudi Arabia also held up progress, the delegate said, by
objecting to the juxtaposition of a table showing the
progressively dire consequences of warming as temperatures
increase with another table showing the benefits of reducing the
emission of carbon dioxide.


With a few exceptions, the reports forecasts are relentlessly bad
for virtually all of Earth's population, but poor tropical
countries -- the least to blame for the fossil-fuel pollution
that drives global warming -- will be hit worst.


Worsening water shortages in thirsty countries, malnutrition
caused by desiccated fields, property damage from extreme weather
events and the spread of disease by mosquitoes and other vectors
will amount to a punishing bill that is beyond the ability of
vulnerable countries, especially in Africa, to pay.


Biodiversity and natural habitat are in for a hammering.


Even a modest increase in temperatures will bleach many coral
reefs, reduce part of eastern Amazonia to a parched savannah,
thaw swathes of the northern hemisphere's permafrost, change
seasons for plant pollination and animal reproduction. The planet
could be placed on the fast track to a mass die-out.


"Roughly 20-30 percent ... of species assessed so far are likely
to be at increasingly high risk of extinction if global mean
temperatures exceed 2-3 C (3.6-5.4 F) above pre-industrial
levels," the scientists are expected to say.


"By 2080, it is likely that 1.1 to 3.2 billion people will be
experiencing water scarcity," says a draft of the summary,
explaining that the figure depends on world population growth,
energy use and the level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.


In the first volume of its report, issued in February, the IPCC
said Earth's temperature had already risen by 0.74 C (1.33 F) in
the past century.


By 2100, it could rise by 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F)
compared to 1980-99 levels, with a likely range of 1.8 C to 4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F).

