

Security forces imposed a curfew on the central Iraqi city of
Diwaniyah on Friday amid ongoing Iraqi-US military raids and
clashes with Shiite militiamen of the Mahdi Army.


One person was killed and 19 wounded in the clashes that broke
out between the Mahdi Army and soldiers overnight, a security
official said.


The curfew began at 5:00 am (0100 GMT), with only security forces
and militia fighters visible on the streets after daybreak, an
AFP reporter said.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers arrived from neighbouring towns
such as Kut, Babel and Najaf in order to raid gunmen hideouts in
Al-Askari, Al-Jumhuri, Al-Iskan in the northern parts of
Diwaniyah," an Iraqi military officer said.


Iraqi troops were supported by US helicopters and ground forces,
he added, but there was no immediate confirmation of the
operation from the US military.


The forces conducted house-to-house searches, made arrests,
clashed with Mahdi Army gunmen and called in an air strike, the
AFP correspondent said.


Sporadic clashes continued in the centre of the city after
daybreak with heavier fighting reported in northern Diwaniyah. A
witness told AFP he saw the bodies of five militiamen and dozens
more wounded.


An official in the local office of the movement of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who controls the Mahdi Army, confirmed
militiamen and US troops were clashing around Salim Street and
the Al-Askari neighbourhood.


"The clashes started this morning. At least 30 civilians were
killed and three (US) Humvees were burnt," the official said on
condition of anonymity.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said, adding that top members of Sadr's movement
were to meet in the city Saturday.


The raids came two days after Iraq said a military crackdown,
underway in Baghdad since mid-February, was being extended to
other flashpoint regions. It was not immediately clear whether
there was a connection.


The Americans believe Sadr, one of the leading opponents of US
troops in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile to escape
the Baghdad crackdown.


Sadr launched two bloody rebellions against US troops in 2004,
before joining mainstream politics, but the Pentagon considers
the Mahdi Army the most dangerous threat to stability in Iraq,
greater even than Al-Qaeda.

