

India's disgruntled cricket millions faced conflicting media
reports Friday as top officials searching for a new coach
launched a closed-door review of the World Cup debacle.


As the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) made it clear
no announcements will be made before the meetings end on Saturday
evening, a media frenzy showed no signs of abating.


From outgoing coach Greg Chappell being asked to reconsider his
decision to quit, to Rahul Dravid standing down as captain and
former great Sunil Gavaskar taking over as manager, rumour and
speculation continued.


"If I have to spend all my waking hours denying all that is
appearing in the media, I will have no time to attend the
meetings," a disgusted BCCI secretary Niranjan Shah told AFP.


"Is it so difficult to wait till Saturday evening? Such reports
do not make our job easier."


Numerous broadcast vans from television news channels and hordes
of print and TV journalists jammed the entrance of the BCCI
offices at the Wankhede stadium where the meetings are taking
place.


The review began with Chappell, Dravid and team manager Sanjay
Jagdale appraising BCCI chief Sharad Pawar and other officials on
what went wrong at the World Cup where India were eliminated in
the first round.


The 1983 champions and finalists in 2003 were stunned by
Bangladesh in their first match and then lost to Sri Lanka to bow
out of the tournament in the preliminary stage.


The BCCI will also speak to seven former national captains before
its influential working committee meets on Saturday to decide the
future course of action.


The ex-captains invited for the conclave are Mansur Ali Khan
Pataudi, Chandu Borde, Gavaskar, Kapil Dev, Srinivas
Venkataraghavan, Ravi Shastri and Krishnamachari Srikkanth.


On Wednesday, Chappell told the BCCI he did not want to extend
his two-year tenure as coach which ended with the World Cup,
citing "family and personal reasons."


The former Australia skipper's decision to leave came amid
speculation of a rift with senior players, prompting superstar
Sachin Tendulkar to go on record saying "he will be hurt if the
coach questioned his commitment."


But on Friday, news reports suggested that the BCCI may ask
Chappell to stay on if they were convinced he was not at fault.


Dev, India's only World Cup winning captain, suggested the BCCI
should look at Gavaskar to take charge since "he was the right
man for the job."


"The Indian team does not need a coach, it needs a good man
manager and there is no one better than Gavaskar to do the job,"
Dev told AFP.


"Look, we did not have a coach when we won the World Cup in 1983.
But we did have a good man manager in (cricket administrator)
Peter Man Singh."


Gavaskar, the first batsman in Test history to scale the
10,000-run mark, is now a television commentator and also heads
the International Cricket Council's technical committee.


BCCI sources confirmed Gavaskar, or any of the former captains,
may be asked to take charge for the tour of Bangladesh in May if
Chappell is not retained or a new coach not appointed before
then.

