

Ryan Giggs expects Manchester United's strength in depth will
prove decisive as his side try to cope with a series of injuries
that threaten their treble bid.


United have been resting their weary limbs at an Italian hideaway
following their Champions League clash at Roma in midweek. But
they will have to rouse themselves once more on Saturday as they
try to maintain their six-point lead over Chelsea at the top of
the Premiership.


Jose Mourinho's side can cut the gap to three points with a win
against Tottenham before United visit Fratton Park in Saturday's
late game.


With Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic and Mikael Silvestre all
sidelined through injury, it won't be easy for Sir Alex
Ferguson's team.


But Welsh winger Giggs believes United's reserves will come to
the rescue and he said: "We've been without players all season,
especially recently," Giggs said. "That's when the squad comes
into play.


"We proved that against Roma with players like Ole Gunnar
Solskjaer coming in. Louis Saha and Darren Fletcher both came
back too, so there are some positives."


Joe Cole is determined to make up for lost time by playing a
decisive role in Chelsea's challenge to overhaul United.


Cole returned to action after four months out with a foot injury
in Wednesday's Champions League draw against Valencia.


The England winger admits the painful memories of his time on the
sidelines will motivate him to help the Blues land a third
successive title - and he is ready to take out his frustrations
on Tottenham.


"It's been a long time and a difficult season. I've missed more
or less the whole campaign with two big injuries," Cole said.


"But I am back now and feeling my way into it. I am sure I will
have something to say this year once I get my fitness and
sharpness back 100 per cent.


"I will be able to make a bigger impact and it is great to have
all the big games to do it in.


"But it could go from being my worst season to my best now if we
win some trophies. We are fighting on all three fronts for that."


Liverpool manager Rafa Benitez believes his current squad is
better than the team that won the Champions League in 2005.


The Reds travel to Reading on a high after their 3-0 win at PSV
Eindhoven in midweek. Benitez claims that clinical victory is
proof of how far his side have progressed since their famous
triumph over AC Milan in Istanbul.


"It is clear that we are closer and closer to what we want,"
Benitez said. "Our form has improved slowly to a point when we
are approaching a peak at the right time.


"I believe that this is a better side than the one that won in
Istanbul. We have signed better players and others have gained
more experience in Europe.


"I can say I am happy with the progress of the side, it's fitness
and improvement. I can see we are closer to our objectives. But
we just play every game with our people fully concentrated on
what we are doing."


Arsenal defender Kolo Toure has told his team-mates they must
stick together as the Gunners try to get back on track after
their 4-1 thrashing at Liverpool last weekend.


Arsene Wenger's side have nothing to play for, but Toure is
determined not let the season tail off.


Toure, whose team host improving West Ham, said: "It is
definitely a big motivation for the players to finish in third
place. We need to be really strong all over the pitch. When we
win, we win together and when we fail, we fail together."


Fixtures:


Friday


Manchester City v Charlton (1715GMT), Everton v Fulham (1930GMT)


Saturday (1500GMT unless stated)


Arsenal v West Ham, Blackburn v Aston Villa, Chelsea v Tottenham
(1245GMT), Middlesbrough v Watford, Portsmouth v Manchester Utd
(1715GMT), Reading v Liverpool, Sheffield Utd v Newcastle, Wigan
v Bolton

