

Ruling Congress party chief Sonia Gandhi appealed to voters in
India's largest state to stand by the party of "every Indian"
ahead of month-long local polls set to begin Saturday.


But the last-minute appeal is likely to have little effect across
Uttar Pradesh, where as many as 50 million are expected to vote
for 403 seats.


The state has seen campaigning from a cast of colourful
characters that include a feisty woman from India's untouchable
classes and a former wrestler.


Gandhi reminded a crowd of some 5,000 Congress stalwarts of the
party's history in the independence struggle and asked them not
to cede to the caste-based claims of her opponents.


"I want to remind you that the Congress was every Indian's party
then and is still every Indian's party today," said the Italian-
born Gandhi, emphasising the word "every," as she spoke in the
blazing heat.


But Congress now has very little support in the northern state,
where it has been wiped out in the last 15 years, except in
pockets like this rundown former mill town.


Two of the paltry 25 seats that the party won in state polls five
years ago were in this city.


Meanwhile, parties that appeal to untouchables -- or Dalits as
they are now known -- at the bottom of the caste system and
"other backward class" Hindus have forged ahead across the state.


"You have to decide whether you want parties that divide the
people among themselves to form the next government or a
government that takes everyone forward together," she said in
fluent but accented Hindi.


The ten-minute speech met with polite clapping from the motley
crowd rounded up by party workers from some of the city's poorer
sections and ferried to the dusty Moti Jheel park where red and
white plastic chairs had been laid out.


Analysts say lower-caste groups -- who have come to have a
greater sense of entitlement since an affirmative action
programme was put into place for them 15 years ago -- feel the
party does not live up to its talk of inclusiveness.


"Of the top 20 Congress leaders in Uttar Pradesh, 18 or at least
16 would be Brahmins," from the top of the Hindu chain, said
Sanjay Kumar, a fellow with the New Delhi-based Centre for the
Study of Developing Societies.


"They have not been able to accommodate Dalits or lower castes in
top positions."


Even the opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP), known for wooing Brahmins, has done better, he said.


Gandhi has tried to turn the focus to development, accusing
Samajwadi Party chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, a former
wrestler voted to power by his large Yadav caste and Muslims, of
developing only one town -- his own.


But even with the charges laid at Yadav's door -- lining his
pockets, allowing a law-and-order breakdown -- his re-election
bid faces little threat from the Congress.


Recent polls show Yadav running neck-and-neck with Mayawati
Kumari, a woman from India's untouchable classes who now leads
the Dalit-based Bahujan Samaj Party, and who has expressed hopes
of becoming India's first Dalit prime minister.


The sway of regional parties in the Hindi-speaking heartland has
meant the general decline of national parties in India and the
rise of coalition politics with no party able to muster a
majority without help.


"Nowadays we don't have a national election, we have regional
elections and if you aggregate the results of these regional
elections you form a national government," said Kumar.


The Congress Party upset the BJP in national elections in 2004
and maintains power with the help of its coalition partners, but
analysts say it needs to do better in a state home to almost a
fifth of India's billion-plus population.


"It's still crucial for Congress because any national revival
does to a large extent hinge on a revival in Uttar Pradesh,"
political analyst Mahesh Rangarajan said.


The elder Gandhi's arrival in Kanpur, the state's largest city,
followed on the heels of a multi-city high-energy roadshow by her
son Rahul Gandhi, a budding politician, seen as the next
generation of the Congress Party.


But although the younger Gandhi was met with showers of rose
petals, polls and analysts hold out little immediate hope for the
party.


"Nothing is going to help Congress even to get up to 35 to 40
seats," said Kumar. "If it tries, it can bring back some of the
Dalits. But not in the next 10 years."


Voting ends May 8 with counting to take place May 11.

