

Monster-length, lightning-fast Augusta National is no respecter
of reputations - just ask Phil Mickelson and Ernie Els, who were
both badly mauled by the course in the first round of the Masters
on Thursday.


Two of the game's greatest talents and the top challengers to
tournament favourite Tiger Woods both found themselves at one
point in their rounds scrambling to duck under the 80-mark.


In the end, Els settled for a six-over 78 and defending champion
Mickelson had to finish strongly for a 76, equalling his worst
score at Augusta, set 10 years ago.


They both were left scratching their heads and wondering just how
they can get back into the running.


"It was a difficult day, a very tough day," said Els, who has two
runner-up finishes in the Masters and who believes his career
will be incomplete unless he wins here one day.


"The fairways were firm, even the rough was pretty firm,
everything was firm out there. If you miss-hit a shot today you
really paid the penalty.


"I have to try and get something going and hopefully by Sunday
get it back to level par or something. If I can do that it will
be a hell of a thing to do, but it's back to the drawing board
basically."


Mickelson, who grabbed his second Masters in three years last
year, sounded less dejected but he admitted that he had been
rocked after getting off to a poor start with four bogeys in a
row from the fourth hole.


"But I don't feel I've driven myself out of it as even par is
going to be in the hunt tomorrow," he said. "If I get out and
shoot a 68, I'll be right back in it."


Mickelson and Els were not alone in being left to lick their
wounds.


Player after player limped off the second-longest layout ever
used in a major, wiped their brows and tried to regroup for
Friday's second round, which again will feature devlish playing
conditions.


"You feel like the course is going to get you somewhere," said
American veteran Ben Crenshaw who sealed an emotional win here in
1995. "It doesn't matter who you are."


Two-time former winner Jose Maria Olazabal called it "a hell of a
test."


"There is no way we are going to have low scores if the weather
stays dry like this and Augusta National wants to have the greens
firm.


At least the Spaniard managed a two-over 74, which was more than
could be said for Ryder Cup teammates Darren Clarke, Lee
Westwood, Padraig Harrington and Paul Casey - who between then
were a collective 30 over par.


"It is an incredibly tough golf course and level par is a very
good score today," said Casey (79), who finished tied for sixth
in his first Masters in 2004.


"It is a perfect example of how you don't need to grow rough to
make a golf course tough."


With the dry, crisp conditions forecast to continue into the
weekend, further carnage is expected and a winning score over par
is not being ruled out on a course that has rediscovered its fire
and sting.

