

New Zealand will be out to narrow the gap on IRB Sevens leaders
Fiji in the inaugural Adelaide Sevens, starting here on Saturday.


The Kiwis were the undisputed kings of Sevens rugby until last
season, when Fiji became the first nation to break the New
Zealand stranglehold on the overall title.


Their rivalry further increased in the recent Hong Kong Sevens,
when the Fijians beat New Zealand to advance to the final.


Although Samoa ultimately won the tournament with a historic
27-22 victory in the final, second placing was enough to push
Fiji ahead of New Zealand in the overall table.


With just three tournaments left in the 2006-07 season, the Kiwis
are determined to add to their earlier victory in the George
Sevens in South Africa and put the pressure back on Fiji.


Long-serving New Zealand coach Gordon Tietjens said the Sevens
season was building to an exciting conclusion and added that his
side were confident of a strong showing here.


"We're pretty happy with the way we played in Hong Kong and we're
hoping that we can be the first team to win here in Adelaide," he
said.


"It's exciting at the moment because it is going to come down to
perhaps one of the top four teams winning here to take a lead
into the final two tournaments."


Although his sights are set on Fiji, Tietjens expects Samoa to
again be hard to beat after their breakthrough win in Hong Kong,
which led to the Samoan government declaring a half-day holiday.


Fiji, who will again be led by the competition's runaway leading
pointscorer, William Ryder, head the Sevens table on 84 points,
with New Zealand and Samoa both on 78, and the ambitious South
Africans close behind on 74.


South African coach Paul Treu said his side were on a mission to
become the best in Sevens rugby and believed they could mount
charge with a win here.


"We want to win games, want to win tournaments and want to be the
best in the world," he said.


"It is important for us to do well in this tournament."


The host nation, in seventh place overall, are sweating on the
fitness of captain Tim Atkinson.


Atkinson, who missed the Hong Kong event, was set to undergo a
fitness test on his injured hamstring on Friday.


England have named Fijian-born Isoa Damudamu to make his debut.


The 16-team tournament concludes on Sunday.

