

New Zealand are capable of winning the World Cup for the first
time because they believe they can do it, middle-order batsman
Craig McMillan has said.


"Probably the key this time is that there is a real belief," said
McMillan, whose side have already posted five successive
victories to emerge serious challengers to defending champions
Australia's supremacy.


New Zealand have beaten England, Canada and Kenya in group
matches, and the West Indies and Bangladesh in the Super Eights.
They now have six points and comfortably on course for the semi-
finals.


"In the previous two World Cups, the New Zealand teams wanted to
win but I am not sure if they believed they could win," said
McMillan, who has so far scored 4,620 runs in 192 one-day
internationals.


"There is a real confidence in the squad in that if someone gets
injured, someone else will do the job well. But we are aware
there are going to be huge tests against Australia and Sri Lanka.
We still have some hard work to do."


McMillan said the team's strength was that they did not rely on
one or two players to win matches as they had plenty of all-
rounders to do the job.


"It's good for us we haven't so far relied on one person. Some
teams rely on one or two guys and it puts pressure on rest of the
team. In New Zealand, we have players from number one to eleven
who can win us a game," he said.


"We have real strength in the lower half and that's where we can
maximise the last eight-ten overs. The kind of games we have
seen, that probably is the key. Most games are won and lost in
those last 10 overs.


"That's one of the strengths of all-rounders batting all the way
down. It will become very prevalent in the later stages of the
tournament. We have been very lucky with good starts."


McMillan has contributed richly to his team's successes in
probably his last World Cup, including a half-century against
2003 semi-finalists Kenya and an unbeaten 33 against the West
Indies.


"I think as a team we have done what we needed to do," said
McMillan.


"Personally it's been a very good World Cup and probably this is
going to be my last. I am looking forward to contribute in every
positive note. I hope it's going to be a special one for New
Zealand."


McMillan, in and out of the team in recent years, said he was
keen to make the most of the opportunity here.


"It's special for me because six to eight months ago I wasn't
expected to be here. It's a huge opportunity to do something good
in what could be a special moment for New Zealand cricket," said
McMillan.


McMillan is a hard-hitting batsman capable of dominating any
attack with his exciting stroke-play. He holds the record of
scoring 26 runs in an over off Pakistan's Younis Khan in the
Hamilton Test in 2001.


"I have always been an aggressive type of player and I have tried
to bat that way. But probably for the last two series, I have
been more consistent. That's the key for me," said McMillan.


"I have played different roles and at times it can be difficult.
I've been picked and dropped at times. If it goes well, it goes
well. If it doesn't, it's not the end of the world."


New Zealand's next match is against Ireland here on Monday.

