

A radical Pakistani cleric who is leading a Taliban-style anti-
vice drive in the heart of the capital told AFP Friday he would
set up an Islamic "Sharia" court at his mosque.


The move comes a week after students affiliated to Islamabad's
Lal Masjid, or Red Mosque, kidnapped a woman accused of being a
brothel owner and mounted morality patrols targeting music and
DVD shops.


"Qazi (Islamic) courts will be set up in the mosque and once the
system starts working we will spread to other areas," prayer
leader Abdul Aziz told AFP by telephone from the mosque.


"If the government fails to implement Sharia we will do that in
the Lal Masjid and provide justice to people who want to have
their disputes resolved through Islamic laws.


The cleric said after the court had started functioning in the
mosque he intended to spread the system to other parts of the
country.


"We will fight against nudity, immorality and gambling," he said.


Further details would be revealed after Friday prayers, he said.


The actions of Aziz and his hardline followers have fuelled fears
that Pakistan, an Islamic republic of 160 million people, is
becoming increasingly "Talibanized".


Pro-Taliban militants in parts of Pakistan's lawless tribal areas
bordering Afghanistan are already said to have set up parallel
Islamic courts in a direct challenge to the government.


Around 600 human rights activists marched in Islamabad on
Thursday to urge the government to stop the mosque and its
students "harassing and terrorising ordinary citizens of Pakistan
in the name of Islam".


The burqa-clad girls of a seminary attached to Aziz's mosque last
week abducted a local woman accused of running a brothel along
with her two female relatives, while their male counterparts
captured two passing policemen.


The policemen were freed after several hours in return for the
release by the authorities of two of the school's arrested
teachers.


Then the students paraded the humiliated woman -- also in a burqa
-- in front of the media to deliver a forced confession of her
sins. She later fled the city in fear of her life.


Music and DVD shop owners in Islamabad said last week that baton-
wielding students from the mosque had warned them to close down.
The mosque denied its students had threatened anyone.

