

Almost 7,000 Canadians will travel to northern France on Monday
to commemorate the 90th anniversary of the battle of Vimy Ridge,
a painful World War I victory that firmed Canada's national
identity.


They will be led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper and his family,
who will lay a wreath on April 9 at the Canadian National Vimy
Memorial, near Arras, to honor the memory of Canadian soldiers
killed during the epic battle.


This year will be the first time since 1917 that April 9 falls on
Easter Monday.


Canadian high school students wearing replica World War I tunics
stitched with the name of a soldier who fought in the conflict,
as well as Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and French Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin are also expected to attend the dedication
of the newly restored memorial.


The battle "was a critical victory for the Allies in the First
World War and it was an important milestone for Canada," Harper
said in a statement.


"Our young country came of age as an independent nation that day
and I am extremely proud to represent Canada at the 90th
anniversary."


At 5:30 am on April 9, 1917, almost 100,000 Canadian soldiers
charged the escarpment, which the German army had fortified
heavily with trenches, barbed wire, massive artillery and
machine-gun nests.


A total 3,598 Canadian Corps troops were killed and 7,004 were
wounded over four days of fighting as they seized control of the
ridge from German soldiers.


The victory was a strategic breakthrough that had eluded British
and French allies for two years.


The battle also marked the first time all four Divisions of the
Canadian Corps had gone into battle together.


"In those few minutes I witnessed the birth of a nation,"
Brigadier General Alexander Ross, who commanded the 28th
Battalion at Vimy, said when a huge memorial was unveiled on the
battleground in 1936.


"It was Canada from the Atlantic to the Pacific on parade."


The victory triggered Canadian pride in the courage of its
soldiers, from across the continent-wide former British colony,
and defined a sense of nationhood.


"When you read soldiers' diaries and letters, it's there, both in
print and between the lines ... it was a Canadian victory,"
historian Ted Barris of Centennial College in Toronto told AFP.


"They were told they'd be fighting for King and (the British)
Empire, but they were fighting for Canada, too," he said.


Previously, Canadian soldiers were "essentially farmed out" to
Allied armies, he said. Suddenly, they found themselves "standing
together in the cold mud" and fighting side by side with Canadian
patches on their sleeves.


"There was an instant connection," he said. "It was very much a
band of brothers."


This pride was bolstered by a series of Canadian innovations that
"turned military strategy on its head," Barris noted.


For example, Canadians used aerial reconnaissance to triangulate
enemy positions, which allowed them to knock out 82 percent of
German batteries before the onslaught.


And instead of informing only officers of battle plans, every
soldier was briefed on strategy and tactics -- and so could fill
any role in case a comrade fell in battle.


More than 600,000 Canadians fought in World War I (1914-1918) and
some 66,000 died. Only two Canadian veterans of the conflict are
still alive.


The Canadian National Vimy Memorial with its twin pylons towering
30 meters (98 feet) above a sprawling stone platform represents
the solidarity of France and Canada, adorned with carved statues
symbolizing peace, sacrifice and mourning.


Designed by Canadian architect Walter Seymour Allward, it took 11
years to build but was not dedicated to military conquest and
glory. Rather it recalled the legions who sacrificed their lives
-- a sentiment never before expressed in war memorials at the
time.


Ottawa recently spent 20 million dollars (17.4 million US) to
restore it for this occasion.

