

Cooped up in a pressure cooker of strict evening curfews for more
than a year, Iraqis play dominos and sip tea as kids queue for
ice cream, lapping up an extra two hours before home time at 10
pm.


At the concrete walls guarding the entrance into Karrada, once a
wealthy Baghdad district of bustling shops and restaurants but
today a shadow of its past glory, Iraqi soldiers continue to wave
cars through the checkpoint.


It's 9:30 pm. Last week the roads would have been empty, but not
since Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki announced the 8:00 pm to 6:00
am curfew was being relaxed by two hours at night and an hour in
the morning.


Shops are staying open longer. Families linger over fruits at
street market stalls. Pavement braziers flicker through the night
air, gently grilling Mazguf, fresh water carp and perhaps the
only culinary speciality in Baghdad.


"We are happy," admits restauranter Abbas Hussein. "This is a
first step. We hope things will go on like this and people will
start to go out again, although alot of people are still
frightened," he said.


Chilling execution-style killings carried out by shadowy
sectarian militias may be on the decline in Baghdad since Iraqi
and US troops launched a massive security crackdown eight weeks
ago but big bombings remain a major threat.


Yet confident progress is being made. The Iraqi authorities
decided to ease the daily curfew in Baghdad from 10:00 pm and
5:00 am as of Wednesday.


"Before you went out and kept on looking at your watch. It was
like somebody was always following you," says 27-year-old Yasser,
who works for a software company.


"Before it was hard to go out. I finish work at 6:00 pm. I would
go home, take a shower, change and it was already 8:00 pm. So,
most of the time you just stayed home. It wasn't worth the
trouble to go out," he says.


"When you went out with friends, most of the time you would have
to sleep at their place, because you didn't have time to go back
home. Yesterday everybody went home to his own place," he adds
remembering the trials of the curfew.


"Once I came back from work late. My family was out of the
country. There was no food and I had no means of getting some
because of the curfew ... I had to wait till the morning to eat,"
he adds.


This week, he and his friends went out, taking advantage of their
newly found freedom even if in years gone by it would still have
felt like a ridiculous imposition to go home before midnight.


Their first indulgence was a cafe, to drink coffee and smoke
shisha, the water pipe that experts warn is more lethal to your
lungs than cigarettes but is an indelible social fixture in the
Arab world.


"We are very, very happy. We feel more free. It's nice to be able
to go out when it's dark," says Yasser.


Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law) was launched on February
14. By June, there will be around 90,000 Iraqi and US soldiers on
the streets.


"I hope the measure will be extended. I don't want them to cancel
the curfew. It's a good thing. But maybe extend it till
midnight," says Yasser.


Government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh has already said the
authorities intend to ease movement by lifting the concrete
barriers that completely surround some districts of Baghdad to
prevent car bombings and militia movements.


For this week, however, the streets have emptied well before the
end of the curfew at 10:00 pm as people hurry back to the safety
of home.


"It's more free for us to go out, you know, and come back a
little bit late. It was like jail, only in the day-time could we
go out, just spending all night doing nothing. The best thing we
did was watch TV," says 28-year-old Ammar.


"Now we can go to the market, get food, see some friends," he
adds.

