

West Indies great Vivian Richards believes World Cup organisers
are to blame for the low crowds that have dogged the tournament
in his native Antigua because they've placed too many
restrictions on local fans.


Supporters used to attending matches with musical instruments and
banners have found that they can only bring such items to the new
Sir Vivian Richards Stadium if they have prior written permission
from officials.


The upshot, allied to complaints about the cost of ticket prices,
is that most of those attending World Cup matches in Antigua have
been from Australia, England and New Zealand.


But foreign fans haven't been able to salvage crowd figures.


For example, only 9,000 turned up at the 19,000 capacity ground
for last week's Super Eights match between hosts West Indies and
reigning champions Australia.


For former West Indies captain Richards, one of cricket's
greatest batsmen, the lack of atmosphere has been a real worry.


"Those of us who have played here know exactly what we are about,
the excitement factor. We are a vibrant people," said Richards.


"But something is seriously missing. It's a particular problem.
You do have to take into consideration that we've moved into a
new venue," said Richards, a hero at the old Antigua Recreation
Ground.


"It's a much larger venue, it is not as intimate as the
Recreation Ground. But I personally believe we've had too many
restrictions placed on us as Caribbean people.


"We are a rather unique people," said Richards at the Stanford
Ground here Thursday where he was taking part in a promotional
event for World Cup sponsors Johnnie Walker.


"We live differently to the way you do in Europe or South Africa.


"We are different in terms of our way of life. I just believe
it's as if someone has held us by the throat and said 'we don't
want you to shout anymore."


Richards, who played in the West Indies teams that won the first
two World Cup finals in 1975 and 1979 as well as appearing in the
side that lost the 1983 final to India, said he'd been as
disappointed as anyone by the lacklustre performances of the
current side.


Brian Lara's men must win their next game, against South Africa,
to have a chance of reaching the semi-finals.


"I feel the same way as a lot of Caribbean people. At this
particular stage we are a little bit dumbfounded by the fact we
have a team who haven't shown much interest in terms of the
event," said Richards.


"It's very disappointing but I have not written them off yet. I'm
just hoping we can find a miracle."

