

A "commando school" on a former Taliban training ground will open
next month to turn selected Afghan soldiers into an elite special
forces unit for Afghanistan's army in construction.


About 3,900 men will be tutored by about 40 French and US
instructors at Camp Morehead, about 10 kilometres (six miles)
south of Kabul, forming the seed of the new Afghan special
forces, a French officer said this week.


The training has already started for about 100 soldiers who were
sent to Jordan in mid-December, the officer told reporters on
condition of anonymity.


"The aim is for six battalions, one for each of the five military
regions in Afghanistan and a sixth more specialised one, the
national commando, which will be dedicated to the Afghan defence
ministry," he said.


Barracks are being thrown up; the finishing touches are being put
to shooting ranges and training tracks.


The choice of site for Morehead is symbolic. It was a base for
the Soviet army that invaded in 1979 and was forced to retreat in
1989 by a resistance movement that later collapsed into civil
war.


It later became a training camp for the extremist Taliban that
seized power in 1996, effectively ending the civil war, and was
driven out by a US-led coalition five years later.


The 300 first Afghan trainees expected at Morehead in May will
include former mujahedin -- fighters in the Soviet resistance --
and others who fought with the Soviets. They are selected by the
Afghan army.


They will have 12 weeks of specialised training from 20 French
instructors and 24 Americans under the umbrella of Operation
Enduring Freedom, the US-led offensive that booted out the
Taliban and is still hunting down its leaders and allies.


The objective, explained the French commander, is to get them to
the level of the American light infantry and modelled on the US
Army Rangers -- a highly trained and specialised and rapidly
deployable force.


They will also receive new US equipment which is much better than
that which they already have, which is usually Russian issue, he
said.


Another French officer said he was already impressed by the skill
of some men already trained in Jordan. "They are commandos,
special forces in the making," he said.


The formation of Afghanistan's own special forces is part of a
wider internationally supported drive to rebuild the security
forces, including an air force, that was in tatters by the time
the Taliban fled the capital.


The Taliban insurgency has become increasingly violent, relying
heavily on suicide and roadside bombings that kill more civilians
than military men.


NATO has 37,000 soldiers from 37 nations deployed under the
banner of the International Security Assistance Force to help
local security forces fight the Taliban and wrest back control of
the rugged nation.


The separate US-led coalition, focused on counterterrorism, has
about 14,000 troops and there are several hundred more foreign
special forces soldiers whose activities are highly secret.


The foreign forces, regarded with suspicion by many Afghans after
years of outside intervention, are keen for local forces to
assume control for operations against militants.


The Afghan security forces have a long way to go: the Afghan
National Army is targeted to reach 64,000 by 2008 and is
currently about half that number.


Only about 25,000 of these soldiers can be considered "present
for duty", according to a UN Security Council report in March.

