

Thailand on Friday expressed outrage at the posting of two new
videos mocking the country's revered king on the video-sharing
website YouTube, pledging to maintain a ban on the site.


"This group of people has found another outlet, taking another
action that is considered very offensive to the king," said
communications ministry spokesman Vissanu Meeyoo.


"Thailand doesn't want to take this kind of action. We are just
doing it temporarily," he said of the ban imposed on Tuesday.


The original video that prompted Thai authorities to block
YouTube appeared to have been withdrawn by its creator, with a
notice on the site saying it had been "removed by the user".


But two more clips, posted by users with different screen names
from the original video creator, surfaced on Friday. The site was
accessed in Bangkok via a foreign server.


Like the first video, one of the new postings showed images of
King Bhumibol Adulyadej's face covered with graffiti or
juxtaposed with images of feet, considered deeply offensive here.


Another clip showed pictures of the king that had been digitally
altered to make him resemble a monkey, and carried messages
saying Thailand's leaders are "evil and hate free speech".


The second video used an expletive to denounce the king and the
government.


"Officials will meet this afternoon with an association of
Internet users to discuss taking further action, after the parent
company Google failed to give any cooperation," the
communications ministry spokesman said.


"We need cooperation from Internet users to monitor these
groups," he added.


A spokeswoman for YouTube said in remarks e-mailed to AFP before
the new videos were posted that the company was "disappointed"
with Thailand's ban of the site.


"We have asked the government to lift the block, and we look
forward to the resumption of service to our Thai users,"
spokeswoman Julie Supan said.


The decision to block the entire YouTube site drew sharp
criticism from media freedom groups, who said the ban highlighted
a growing trend for the military government to censor political
expressions on the Internet.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult against
the royal family.


The ban came a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss man for 10
years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits during
a drunken spree.

