

The Solomons government warned Friday that tsunami survivors had
limited access to clean drinking water, as aid workers rushed to
get supplies to those in need amid mounting fears of a health
crisis.


"The latest report revealed that access to clean drinking water
and general sanitation on Gizo Island is very poor," the
government said in a statement.


The aid charity Save the Children Australia was on Friday
expecting thousands of water purification tablets along with 10
portable water filtration units sufficient to help 15,000 people
to arrive in the disaster zone, it said.


At least 34 people were killed and 5,500 people displaced after
an 8.0-magnitude earthquake struck the western Solomon Islands on
Monday, triggering a tsunami that smashed into coastal villages
and towns.


Diarrhoea has broken out in makeshift camps where the displaced
fled after the disaster, which knocked out water tanks in the
impoverished South Pacific archipelago and left wells
contaminated by sea water.


The town of Gizo -- lying just 45 kilometres (28 miles) from the
epicentre of Monday's quake -- was one of the areas worst
affected by the waves, which were up to five metres high.


As many as 50,000 people -- half the population of the country's
Western and Choiseul provinces -- may have been affected by the
disaster, the United Nations said in a statement Thursday.


Amid continuing aftershocks, residents afraid to return to those
homes still standing in low lying areas remain in makeshift camps
on higher ground. Around 2,000 people are in camps on the hills
behind Gizo.


Loads of aid from New Zealand, Australia and the French territory
of New Caledonia have arrived in the country, with distribution
made easier since the reopening of the airfield at Gizo on
Thursday.


In Australia, the parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs
Greg Hunt said up to 100 people were still missing in the
Solomons.


"We are preparing for a worsening of the known numbers of the
dead," Hunt was quoted saying by the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.


"There may be tens, perhaps up to a hundred missing," he said.


"Of course in a situation like this many people may just simply
disappear when there's a tsunami... we may not find some of those
who have been lost."

