

The weathered face of Ramadan Berisha, a Roma who fled Kosovo
eight years ago, grimaced as he looked out towards the parched
earth where his modest home once stood.


"All we want is a roof over our heads," he said, cradling his
coughing baby daughter in his lap on the floor of a makeshift
room now home to 14 members of his extended family.


"How long do we have to think about it until someone gets us out
of here?" the 38-year-old asked resignedly.


Berisha was forced to move his entire family into a three-by-
three metre (32 square-foot) room partitioned off from one of the
few shacks still intact after a fire swept through their
shantytown on a windy night several weeks ago.


"We sleep like sardines," said his wife Zeneli.


Outside, children play beside a latrine and a dusty pile of scrap
metal collected for resale after the camp's inhabitants turned to
the recycling business for want of any real job opportunities.


The Rasadnik Sever camp is home to 260 Kosovo Roma internally
displaced persons (IDPs). It lies in an exposed field next to
train tracks in the suburbs of Pozarevac, the hometown of late
Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic around 70 kilometres (44
miles) southeast of Belgrade.


The camp's plight reflects that of many Roma forced to flee
Kosovo during NATO's 1999 bombing campaign to end a crackdown on
ethnic Albanians by forces loyal to Milosevic.


The Roma were seen as "collaborators" of the Milosevic regime by
ethnic Albanian extremists, who threatened them with revenge
attacks after the NATO assault ejected the Serb forces from the
disputed province.


But Rajko Djuric, an ethnic Roma deputy, has charged that United
Nations envoy Martti Ahtisaari has largely ignored the problem of
displaced Roma in year-long talks to resolve the future status of
Kosovo, the breakaway southern province of Serbia that has been
run by a UN mission since the 1998-99 war.


Roma were the victims of "the most horrific ethnic cleansing to
have been carried out in Kosovo, but nobody, including Mr.
Ahtisaari, is mentioning the Romani problem," Djuric said.


"Today, most (Kosovo Roma IDPs) live in truly deplorable
conditions, often well below the level of human dignity," said a
joint report released last week by the UN refugee agency and non-
governmental organisation Praxis, ahead of International Roma Day
on April 8.


When they try to attend school, they face violence, bullying and
racial slurs, and authorities do not always adequately respond,
said the UNHCR-Praxis report.


"They called my five-year-old son 'dirty' and told him to get
some new clothes," said a teary Emina Berisha standing outside
the family shack, a hotchpotch of scrap wood, tin and tarpaulin.


The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) said that more than 80 percent of
Roma children in such settlements skip school to take on adult
roles, and often suffer from illness and stunted growth resulting
from hunger and malnutrition.


Unsanitary conditions plague the camps, promoting illnesses such
as hepatitis, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases.


Across Serbia, 74 percent of Roma children displaced from Kosovo
cannot get the medical treatment they need due to obstacles in
registering for health cards, according to local non-governmental
organisations.


Nonetheless, the Kosovo Roma IDPs feel safer in Serbia proper
even though they remain the country's most vulnerable group,
facing discrimination from locals, including other Roma, NGOs
say.


Overall, the government says there are some 110,000 Roma in all
of Serbia though their real number is estimated at between
300,000 and 500,000, and the UNHCR says 75 percent of them live
in "abject poverty."


An estimated 50,000 Roma left Kosovo during and after its
1998-1999 war, according to UNHCR estimates. Many of them were
accepted as refugees in Western Europe, notably Germany.


But Djuric, one of the first two Roma politicians to have entered
Serbia's parliament following January elections, said most have
since been sent back.


"They are being returned en masse, not to Kosovo, but here in
Serbia, unfortunately, without any kind of resolution of their
problem.


"Quite simply, they were delivered here like trash," he said.


Once here, the Kosovo Roma face an uncertain future, in a kind of
legally vulnerable no man's land with "a chronic lack of
documentation", the UNHCR said.


The UN agency termed this "a serious handicap" as those who
cannot prove their residence miss out on IDP privileges.


"One of the consequences is that many live in 'illegal'
settlements," it said. "But even for those recognised as IDPs,
lack of documentation means difficult or no access to education,
citizenship, employment and pension."


International organisations say that Serbia, on its own, is still
not equipped to deal with the problem of refugees.


"Finding a solution to this problem is not so easy," according to
Ivana D'Alessandro, the manager of a Council of Europe project to
improve Roma rights who calls the discrimination a "tragedy."


"They are discriminated against everywhere (but) when a country
has some internal difficulties, then the difficulties are more
serious," she said.

