

Vietnamese security forces barred the wives of several political
dissidents who are in detention or under house arrest from
meeting the US ambassador, a visiting US Congress member said
Friday.


Three women were blocked at their homes, and two prevented from
entering Ambassador Michael Marine's residence for a Thursday 5pm
meeting by some 15 uniformed and plain-clothes police, said
Loretta Sanchez.


Sanchez, a Democrat who represents a large Vietnamese exile
community in California, said security forces had put up
barricades near the houses of the women and signs barring
foreigners and journalists.


"Some of them who tried to leave their homes were taken down to
local police stations, some of them were detained last night,"
Sanchez told a media briefing during a three-day visit, her third
to the communist country.


"Two of them were able to make it to the ambassador's residence
where there was an altercation with about 15 men, some in
uniform, some plain clothes, who would not allow the two women to
enter the ambassador's home," she said.


Marine tried to intervene in the tense scene, she said, adding
that security officials "began to harass the women, to push them
around, and finally the ambassador asked the women to go back
home."


The women were relatives of pro-democracy activists who are in
jail, detention or under house arrest -- the wives of Pham Hong
Son, Nguyen Vu Binh, Le Quoc Quan and Nguyen Van Dai, and the
mother of Le Thi Cong Nhan.


Sanchez said she had hoped the women could attend the Friday
media briefing in a downtown Hanoi hotel, but none of them came.


On Thursday, Marine had sent a letter to Vietnamese media,
calling on the one- party state to free its dissidents and open
up its political system.


"Today, regrettably, there are an increasing number of
individuals in prison or under detention in Vietnam whose only
crime was the peaceful expression of their views," he wrote in a
commentary sent to newspapers here.


Marine also wrote that last week's eight-year jail sentence for
activist priest Father Nguyen Van Ly was "baffling considering
his crime was peacefully speaking out in favor of political
change."

