

Leading US Democratic legislator Nancy Pelosi defended on
Thursday her controversial meeting with Syria's President Bashar
al-Assad.


In a nod to strong criticism of their trip from the White House,
Pelosi and her delegation said in a statement that they told
Assad he could achieve peace in the region if he stops supporting
terrorism.


And they reiterated that their purpose had been "to assess the
impact of events in the region on the national security interests
of the United States".


"There is no separation between this delegation, Congress, and
President (George W.) Bush on the commitment of the United States
to fight terrorism, end the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, and pursue peace.


"We have no illusions about the complexity of the challenges
facing this region, but hope that recent diplomatic activity will
generate some momentum for progress."


The statement was issued late Thursday after Pelosi and the other
lawmakers returned from their swing through Syria, Israel,
Lebanon, the Palestinian Territories and Saudi Arabia.


The trip was strongly attacked by Bush and other members of his
administration, which has tried to isolate Assad who the US says
supports terror groups in Iraq, Lebanon and the Palestinian
territories.


The White House accused Pelosi of rewarding Assad for "bad
behavior."


"By going to Damascus at this stage it serves to reinforce, if
you will, and reward Bashar Assad for his bad behavior," Vice
President Dick Cheney said Thursday.


"He's done all kinds of things that are not in the interests of
the United States, including allowing Syria to be an area from
which attacks are launched against our people inside Iraq."


Pelosi's statement said however, that they stressed to Assad the
need to stop supporting terrorism in the region.


"We emphasized to President Assad that peace with Israel is
essential to a US- Syria relationship. We conveyed to him
(Israeli) Prime Minister (Ehud) Olmert's overture for peace talks
when Syria openly takes steps to stop supporting terrorism.


"President Assad declared that he is ready to resume the peace
process and enter into negotiations.


"The test will be whether Syria ceases its support for terrorism,
engages in a productive and realistic effort to resolve its
differences and live in peace with the State of Israel, and acts
to stop the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq."


The statement also endorsed the international investigation into
the murder of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri, whose
grave the Pelosi group visited.


It said the group was "encouraged" by Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas to reform the Fatah party and shore up
his security forces to reduce the influence of Hamas, which the
US has labelled a terror group.


As for the final Saudi Arabia leg of the trip, the delegation
said it had an extended meeting with King Abdullah, discussing
the importance of the US-Saudi relationship especially in the war
on terror.


"The delegation commended the king on his efforts to end the
violence and suffering in Darfur and Somalia, and to move the
Israeli-Palestinian peace process forward.


"In the meeting with the Shoura Council, the delegation discussed
regional threats including Iran, and visa issues of concern to
the Saudis."

