

Publication of a landmark UN report on climate change was delayed
here Friday as the US, China and Saudi Arabia objected to the
strongly-worded text and graphics, sparking an accusation of
political meddling in neutral scientific assessment.


The report -- whose draft warns that climate change will
massively affect life on Earth -- had been scheduled to be issued
at 0800 GMT by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC).


The IPCC's spokesman told reporters that the document had been
delayed, and did not give a time for when it would be issued.


The area of dispute is a "summary for policymakers" about the
known effects of climate change and a prediction of these impacts
for the 21st century.


It accompanies a main report that predicts that damage to Earth's
weather systems from greenhouse gases will change rainfall
patterns, punch up the power of storms, boost the risk of
drought, flooding and water stress and accelerate the existing
meltdown of glaciers and erosion of ice sheets.


The United States, China and Saudi Arabia lodged objections to
sections of summary text and graphics that gave high-level
warnings about these effects, delegates said.


At US insistence, drafters dumped a paragraph that said North
America was "expected to experience severe local economic damage
and substantial ecosystem, social and cultural disruption," they
said.


Saudi Arabia objected to a graphic that juxtaposed climate damage
with concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is chiefly the
result of burning oil and other fossil fuels.


And China opposed a statement that that IPCC had "very" high
confidence that many natural ecosystems were being affected by
regional climate change.


China and Russia argued that the data in the 1,400-page main
study due to be issued by the IPCC working group is not solid
enough to buttress such a strong statement.


The raft of objections sparked an angry protest from one
delegate, who was not immediately identified, that politicians
were meddling in a scientific assessment that was supposed to be
impartial and based on evidence, the sources said.


"This is the first time that the science is being questioned by
politicians," they quoted the delegate as saying.


With a few exceptions, the forecasts in the main report are
relentlessly bad for virtually all of Earth's population.


But poor tropical countries -- the least to blame for the fossil-
fuel pollution that drives global warming -- will be hit worst.


Worsening water shortages in thirsty countries, malnutrition
caused by desiccated fields, property damage from extreme weather
events and the spread of disease by mosquitoes and other vectors
will amount to a punishing bill that is beyond the ability of
vulnerable countries, especially in Africa, to pay.


Biodiversity and natural habitat are in for a hammering.


Even a modest increase in temperatures will bleach many coral
reefs, reduce part of eastern Amazonia to a parched savannah,
thaw swathes of the northern hemisphere's permafrost, change
seasons for plant pollination and animal reproduction. The planet
could be placed on the fast track to a mass die-out.


"Roughly 20-30 percent ... of species assessed so far are likely
to be at increasingly high risk of extinction if global mean
temperatures exceed 2-3 C (3.6-5.4 F) above pre-industrial
levels," according to a draft of the report.


"By 2080, it is likely that 1.1 to 3.2 billion people will be
experiencing water scarcity," says a draft of the summary for
policymakers, explaining that the figure depends on world
population growth, energy use and the level of greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere.


The report is part of the IPCC's first assessment in six years of
the evidence for climate change.


In the first volume of this review, issued in February, the IPCC
said Earth's temperature had already risen by 0.74 C (1.33 F) in
the past century.


By 2100, it could rise by 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F)
compared to 1980-99 levels, with a likely range of 1.8 C to 4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F).


The IPCC was set up in 1988 with the task of giving informed and
impartial assessments about climate change.


Its meetings comprise national delegations that include top
scientists, biologists, economists and other experts, as well as
government officials. The reports have to be approved by
consensus.

