

Top Indian and Pakistani defence officials began talks here on
Friday on demilitarising a glacier in Kashmir where freezing
temperatures have claimed more lives than actual combat.


India has said that "iron-clad" evidence of Pakistani military
positions in the 6,300-metre (20,800-feet) Siachen glacier area
of the disputed region is needed before demilitarisation of the
world's highest battlefield can begin.


A nine-member Indian delegation led by Defence Secretary Shekhar
Dutt arrived in Pakistan late Thursday for talks with Dutt's
newly appointed Pakistani counterpart, Kamran Rasool.


The talks began as scheduled on Friday morning, an official said
on condition of anonymity.


"These parleys are the part of the ongoing process of composite
dialogue between the two countries for resolution of all the
outstanding issues," an official Pakistani statement said.


The "composite dialogue" is the official term for the peace
process launched by the nuclear-armed rivals in January 2004,
centring on their six-decade dispute over the Himalayan territory
of Kashmir.


Hindu-majority India and mainly Muslim Pakistan both hold Kashmir
in part and claim it in full.


It has sparked two of their three wars since 1947 and they fought
regular artillery duels until November 2003 when they agreed a
ceasefire along the heavily-militarised Line of Control that
divides Kashmir.


Analysts say Siachen itself is of symbolic rather than strategic
value.


The Indian army, which has occupied most of the high-altitude
battlefield since 1987, wants existing troop positions marked out
to dissuade Pakistan from moving its soldiers forward in the
event of a pull-out.


Pakistan however wants to go back to the pre-1987 positions and
fears that giving details of its positions would be tacit
acceptance of India's current claims to Siachen and the area as a
whole.


Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday called a meeting
of his security cabinet to chalk out a framework for the Siachen
talks.


Singh later told reporters in New Delhi that he was "hopeful" of
a positive outcome when asked about his expectations of the
meeting, the Press Trust of India news agency reported.


"There are immense opportunities. We are working together to
resolve our differences," Singh said.


Experts say India has around 5,000 troops on the glacier while
Pakistan has less than half the number on the frigid wasteland
where temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58
degrees Fahrenheit).

