

Paris Saint Germain will fight until the final whistle of the
final game of the season to avoid the humiliation and financial
hardship brought on by relegation.


That was the battle cry emerging out of Parc des Princes after
last weekend's confidence boosting 2-1 away win over European
contenders Lens which put a stop to an unhelpful run of four
consecutive defeats.


That torrid spell saw PSG plummet into the drop zone but victory
last Saturday moved them one point above the third from bottom
team.


And Jeremy Clement, who moved with manager Paul Le Guen from
Rangers to Paris in January, is looking for his troubled side to
maintain that momentum against mid- table Le Mans on Saturday.


Clement, who is back fully fit after injury, said: "That win
against Lens came at just the right time after four straight
losses.


"Even if everything wasn't perfect we put up a great performance
remaining solid and united.


"I think we proved there that we're not down and out.


"We know we have to fight right to the finish line."


The 22-year-old said those valuable three points had triggered
huge relief in Le Guen's troubled side.


"We relished that win, it was like a breath of fresh air," said
Clement who also played for Le Guen in his days as boss of Lyon.


But he cautioned: "Now we have to put that win aside and start
again from zero against Le Mans."


Reflecting on the tricky run-in till the end of the campaign he
added: "Our remaining eight matches are all like finals. A result
against Le Mans will be very important but it won't be decisive."


While PSG struggle for League One survival up at the top end of
the table Lyon will edge closer to a record sixth successive
title with victory against promoted Valenciennes.


Manager Gerard Houllier will have to make do without the services
of captain Juninho, who suffered an injury in last weekend's 1-0
League Cup defeat to Bordeaux.


The 32-year-old Brazil international misses this fixture and is
doubtful for the match against Sedan on April 14 as well.


Despite the disappointment of the League Cup loss and exiting the
Champions League Lyon look certain to secure their sixth
championship as they lead Lens by 16 points and have a game in
hand.


The second-placed side will be hoping to further cement their
Champions League claims for next season away to Rennes.


One club which will be eager to reignite their faltering push on
Europe is eight-placed Marseille who host Lille, one point ahead
of them, on Sunday.


Fixtures


Saturday


Valenciennes v Lyon, Rennes v Lens, Sochaux v Nice, Nancy v
Lorient, Monaco v Troyes, PSG v Le Mans, Auxerre v Bordeaux,
Saint Etienne v Nantes


Sunday


Sedan v Toulouse, Marseille v Lille

