

Two French tourists, a father and his teenage daughter, are
missing after a Greek cruise ship carrying 1,600 passengers and
crew had to be evacuated after it ran into rocks near the Aegean
island of Santorini, officials said Friday.


"The missing are Jean-Christophe Allain, 45 and his 16-year-old
daughter Maud," a merchant marine ministry official told AFP,
adding that the claim was made by Allain's wife and son several
hours after the accident on Thursday.


The Greek-flagged cruise ship, the Sea Diamond, listed
dangerously after hitting a reef half a nautical mile offshore as
it was preparing to dock at Santorini, prompting a major
evacuation effort.


The 400-strong crew used boats and ladders to evacuate the
passengers, assisted by a flotilla of vessels from the island,
other cruise ships and Greek navy and airforce helicopters.


The authorities are conducting a search for the two among the
cruise ship's 1,167 passengers, mostly Americans and Germans, the
majority of whom have already sailed from Santorini for the
mainland port of Piraeus on two other vessels.


The 143-metre (472-foot) Sea Diamond, operated by Cyprus-based
Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines, sank early on Friday morning near
the port of Santorini, where it had been towed under the
accident.


"The ship sank at around 6:00 am (0300 GMT) almost completely,"
the ministry officer said. The ship's captain is expected to be
detained later today, he added.


The cause of the accident, which occurred in mild weather
conditions, has not been determined. An investigation is in
process.


The first 325 passengers of the Sea Diamond were expected to
arrive early Friday at Piraeus on board another cruise ship, the
Aegean II.


Another 726 passengers and 314 crew were to arrive later in the
day on board the Perla, a cruise ship also owned by Louis
Hellenic Cruise Lines.


The remaining passengers opted to spend the night on Santorini,
the ministry said.


Authorities in Greece are particularly sensitive to marine
accidents after 80 people died in the sinking of the Greek ferry
Express Samina after it hit two reefs in 2000.

