

As Easter hymns ring out from the chapel at the Sisters of
Charity convent in Dili, a group of children, their feet bare and
covered in dirt, run among a row of makeshift tents.


They are just a few of the 7,000 East Timorese refugees who have
sought refuge at the convent to escape an outbreak of ethnic
violence in the tiny state.


On Easter Monday, the country will hold its first presidential
election since independence in 2002, but for many refugees like
Da Silva, voting is the farthest thing from their minds. They
just pray one day to be able to go home.


"We've been here for almost a year," explains 35-year-old
Guilhermina da Silva, who lives with her husband, four sons and a
daughter in a two-by-three metre (six-by-10-foot) area under a
tarp suspended from the branches of a tree.


The family sleeps on a thin sheet on the ground. Scraps of canvas
held up by stakes serve as the walls of their "home". As for
furniture, they have a stool and a piece of wooden lattice, on
which they have piled up their clothes.


"Sleeping on the ground has made us sick. When it rains, there is
water everywhere," she says.


Da Silva is a Lorosae from the east of the country, while her
husband Gervasio Hale Mauk is a Loromonu from the west. They
never imagined that their marriage would one day force them to
flee for their lives.


In early 2006, some 600 soldiers -- a third of East Timor's army
-- deserted, claiming military brass had discriminated against
them because they were from the west. The prime minister at the
time, Mari Alkatiri, sacked them.


Factional fighting among the soldiers eventually degenerated into
gang warfare in the streets of Dili, leaving at least 37 people
dead and forcing more than 150,000 others to flee their homes.
Some 37,000 are still displaced.


Last year, Da Silva and her husband lived in a Loromonu village,
but mounting threats against Da Silva forced them to run.


"I was afraid to leave her alone in the house in the morning with
the children and go to work," he explains. "Then they told me to
leave. It's hard to fathom."


Friends advised them to head for the Sisters of Charity convent
in the capital.


"The sisters told us, 'Everyone here is a child of Jesus.' They
said to leave our problems at the door," Da Silva remembers.


Now the seven-member family lives on six kilogrammes (13 pounds)
of rice per person per month. They have a four-litre (one-gallon)
container of vegetable oil.


"We pray every Sunday and every night of the week," Mauk says.
"We dream that after the Ninth (Easter Monday), the situation
will get better. We want to go home, but only when things are
calm."


The convent's Mother Superior, Sister Guilhermina Marcal, says
some 23,500 internally displaced persons (IDPs) passed through
the facility from May to September 2006, as armed gangs continued
to terrorise the population.


The number gradually dropped to some 3,800 in January but spiked
again after fresh clashes. Today, some 7,000 people call the
convent home.


"Every single place is occupied by IDPs, except the chapel for
prayers and the basketball court -- we moved the tents to make a
little space for the kids," Sister Guilhermina says.


Before, the convent was home to young female students. Now the
library is filled with boxes of blankets. At night dozens of
people sleep between the bookshelves.


The budget once used for the girl's dormitory is now doled out
for buying rice. Sister Guilhermina, who has lived in Australia,
Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia and Singapore, called all of her
contacts to ask for help.


Religious orders from around the region sent blankets and milk
for the newborns. But it isn't enough.


"Some people lost their house or their house was burnt. Some
people came here because their neighbourhoods don't allow them to
go home," she says.


"There are not enough toilets to accommodate everybody. All
toilets are broken down and our pump was damaged.


"We face a lot of problems."

