

A French judge has placed the chief executive of the Total oil
group under formal investigation on suspicion of paying bribes to
secure a major gas field deal in Iran.


Christophe de Margerie, who is already under investigation over
the Iraq "oil- for-food" bribes scandal, was officially warned of
the new accusations on Thursday night after he had spent more
than a day in detention.


The judge placed Margerie, who has only been Total's chief
executive since February, under investigation for suspected
"corruption of foreign public agents and misuse of corporate
assets," a legal source said.


Margerie was given conditional release.


The French oil company is suspected of paying top Iranian
officials nearly 100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80
million dollars) through two Swiss bank accounts to win a
contract for the South Pars offshore gas field in 1997.


Margerie was detained by French police on Wednesday before being
transferred to a serious financial crime unit a day later,
judicial officials told AFP. Four other serving and former Total
executives were also detained but later released without charge.


In a statement, Total said that its chief executive had been
placed "under formal investigation in proceedings related to the
development of the South Pars project in Iran."


Being placed under judicial investigation is one step short of
being charged with a crime in the French legal system. It does
not necessarily mean that 55 -year-old Margerie is heading for
trial.


A case can be dropped if a judge is unable to sustain his
accusations against an individual.


In the statement Total expressed "its full support for its
employees and confirms that the agreements for the development of
the South Pars project were entered into in compliance with
applicable law."


It also said that the company was "confident" that the
"investigation will establish the absence of any illegal
activities and reaffirms that Total adheres to a strict code of
conduct regardless of the difficulties linked to its activities
and the environments in which it operates."


The suspicions centre on a contract Total won from the Iranian
oil company NIOC for the South Pars field.


The French judge is partly relying on testimony given by an
employee of Norwegian oil company Statoil who revealed the
existence of a corruption system in Iran during an investigation
in Norway.


According to sources, money was paid to Iranian officials between
1996 and 2003 when Margerie was Total's Middle East director.


Last year he was charged with complicity with fraud and
corruption by the same judge as part of an investigation into a
French link to the "oil-for-food" scandal in Iraq.


Companies were said to have paid money to get oil deals from Iraq
while it was under UN sanctions during the Saddam Hussein years.


Several other Total executives and former executives, including
Patrick Rambaud, who was also questioned over the Iran deal, have
also been put under investigation as part of the "oil-for-food"
scandal.


Known in the company as "Big Moustache," Margerie was promoted to
head of Total in February in succession to Thierry Desmarest who
had overseen huge expansion of the group and is president of the
supervisory board.


Margerie studied at the elite ESCP business school in Paris,
joining the finance department of Total in 1974, rising to the
managing committee in 1992 and becoming director for the Middle
East region in 1995.

