

With a year to go before the tiny Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan is
transformed into a democracy, officials there have complained of
a lack of interest.


Bhutan's chief election commissioner said calls for new political
parties to form and register by July this year had apparently
fallen on deaf ears -- even though all the other trappings of a
democracy were ready.


"All the fundamental machineries are in place, but there is no
notable political activity taking place," Dasho Kunzang Wangdi
said in a statement, a copy of which was sent to AFP in the
neighbouring northeast Indian state of Assam.


"We would like to remind voters that there cannot be democracy
and elections as envisaged in the constitution without the
participation of multiple political parties," he stressed.


Landlocked Bhutan's transition from absolute monarchy to
democracy began in 2001 when the former king, Jigme Singye
Wangchuck, handed over the powers of daily government to a
council of ministers.


He is most famous for having decided to make Bhutan's priority
not its gross domestic product or GDP, but its GNH -- or "gross
national happiness."


In December, he abdicated the throne in favour of his son, Jigme
Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in a bid to give the young Oxford-
educated royal more exposure to governance.


A 34-point draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has also been sent
to the Bhutanese people for their views ahead of the 2008
parliamentary elections. The constitution will replace a royal
decree of 1953 giving the monarch absolute power.


According to Wangdi, the 600,000 people living in the "Land of
the Thunder Dragon" now need to quickly display some interest in
the process.


"There is urgency for more individuals to come forward and take
up the responsibility of serving the nation through the formation
of political parties," he said in the statement, which was
received late on Thursday.


The election panel has planned a primary round of balloting in
which the 400,000-strong electorate will vote for political
parties of their choice.


The two parties with the highest number of votes will then field
candidates for the general elections, the winners of which will
go on to form a new National Assembly.


The presence of "credible political parties is necessary to
ensure that the nation has a sound political system," Wangdi
said.


"There may not be a reasonable number of credible political
parties participating in the electoral process, but parties need
to do a lot of ground work and should begin in earnest," he
added.


Only 42 percent of people in Buddhist Bhutan -- wedged between
Asian powerhouses India and China and known as a Shangri-La of
breathtaking beauty -- are literate.

