

Sri Lankan troops advanced into an area held by the Tamil Tiger
rebels, shifting the battle lines to the island's north, the
military said Friday, as they announced they had killed 13
rebels.


Government troops "neutralised" a threat from the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) on the de facto border with rebel-
held territory in the northwestern coastal district of Mannar,
defence ministry spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said.


"What we have done is to neutralise the threat to our positions,"
Samarasinghe said. "We have not captured territory."


He said 11 rebels had been killed in separate clashes at Omanthai
on the de facto border on Thursday, and another two shot dead
further north at Nagarkovil in the Jaffna peninsula on the same
day. There were no reports of troop casualties.


LTTE spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said those killed on Thursday
were not Tamil Tigers.


"It is possible that they killed some civilians using Claymore
mines," Ilanthiriyan said.


But Ilanthiriyan confirmed the advance, saying the military had
captured a village in the rebel-held part of the Mannar district.


"The Sri Lankan army has captured the Thampane village and is
holding 130 villagers hostage," he said by telephone from his
base in Kilinochchi, 330 kilometres (206 miles) north of here.


Defence ministry spokesman Samarasinghe denied that they were
holding civilians and in turn accused the Tigers of using
villagers as a human shield to attack government forces.


"They have camps near villages and fire at us from those
locations knowing that we will not fire back because of the
civilians in the area," Samarasinghe said.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
in Sri Lanka since December 2005. The violence comes despite a
truce in place since February 2002.


The LTTE is leading a 35-year-old campaign for an independent
homeland for Sri Lanka's 12.5 percent Tamil minority in this
majority Buddhist nation of 19.5 million people.


The latest violence came as troops carried out clearing
operations in the east of the island after simultaneous Tamil
Tiger attacks left at least 20 people dead and dozens more
wounded on Wednesday, officials said.


The Tigers said they launched the attacks to prevent the military
from starting a fresh offensive on the rebel-held Thoppigala
jungles in the Batticaloa district.


Security forces were firing rockets towards the jungles, which
the guerrillas use as a springboard to launch hit-and-run attacks
in Batticaloa.


Official figures show that nearly 150,000 people were listed as
internally displaced in the eastern district of Batticaloa since
the military captured a key Tiger base there in January.


Following the fall of the former Tiger bastion of Vakarai in
January, the military has vowed to flush out the Tigers from the
east of the island.


Since then, the military has also stepped up attacks against
rebel boats and claimed it sank three large supply ships that
were allegedly trying to smuggle weapons into the island nation.

