

The European Union's 50th birthday declaration will include a
commitment to try to resolve the bloc's constitutional impasse by
2009, the German EU presidency said Friday.


The "Berlin Declaration" is to be signed by the presidency and
the heads of the European Commission and the Parliament in the
German capital Sunday to mark the anniversary of the EU's
founding Treaty of Rome, signed on March 25, 1957.


The aim is to praise achievements and reassure EU citizens about
the future.


"The presidents of the institutions agree that we need to put the
European Union on a new, sound foundation by 2009," a presidency
official told reporters, on condition of anonymity.


The official said the heads of the three institutions -- the 27
EU leaders will not as previously thought sign the declaration --
"will put the Union on a renewed, common basis" on the way ahead.


"You can't put anything legally binding on the heads of state and
government. We can just decide together to seek to achieve
something. We can't do anymore unless there is a legally binding
treaty," he explained.


The constitution was meant to simplify the way the EU operates as
it expands, as well as to establish a longer-term president and a
foreign minister.


It has been ratified by 18 member states, but all 27 must do so
for the painstakingly drawn-up treaty to enter into force.


Since its rejection by French and Dutch voters in referendums two
years ago the constitution treaty has remained in political limbo
and no one knows how, or whether, to resurrect it.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel wants the impasse to end by 2009,
when the next European Parliament elections are to be held, but
this goal has proved controversial with other leaders.


Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said Thursday that Prague
would prefer that "no concrete date be mentioned in the text."
The Czech Republic is scheduled to hold the EU's presidency for
six months that year.


But the presidency official suggested Merkel had overcome this
problem in fresh talks early Friday with Topolanek.


In an interview with the mass market Bild newspaper Friday, the
chancellor said that a European constitution was key to
eliminating the alienation that has arisen between the EU and
many of its citizens.


"A certain impatience is common because it often takes a long
time for the 27 member states to reach a consensus," she said.


"To change that we need an EU constitutional treaty to harmonise
the decision- making mechanisms with a larger EU."


Another disputed issue -- the EU's continued enlargement -- is
referred to in the Berlin text in a line to the effect that the
EU remain open.


"The term 'enlargement' will not be mentioned," the official
said, acknowledging that "the member states have different
positions" about how big the rich European club should become.


Starting with "We the citizens of the European Union..." -- not
copying the US Declaration of Independence according to the
German presidency -- the declaration will praise Europe's
achievements, note its common values and address future
challenges.


Those challenges include fighting terrorism while protecting
civil liberties, combating poverty, defining a common,
sustainable energy policy and working to hold off climate change.


The official said the declaration, to be made public early Sunday
afternoon, was drawn up despite the political obstacles it had to
overcome and that the only delay now was the need to translate it
into the EU's 23 languages.

