

The authorities in the Democratic Republic of Congo issued an
arrest warrant Friday for "high treason" against opposition
leader Jean-Pierre Bemba, as fresh clashes erupted in the capital
Kinsasha.


The former vice president, who was defeated in historic
presidential elections last year, had sought refuge in the South
African embassy late on Thursday after heavy fighting broke out
between members of his personal bodyguard and government troops.


"The judicial authorities... have issued an arrest warrant for
high treason against Jean-Pierre Bemba," government spokesman
Toussaint Tshilombo Send told AFP.


"Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces for his own
ends," the spokesman said.


The announcement of the warrant came as government troops and
Bemba loyalists clashed for a second day in the capital.


Light weapons fire and loud explosions from shells or mortars
were heard in the northern district of Gombe, where Bemba's
residence is located, AFP correspondents said.


Members of the presidential guard were deployed in force in the
streets since dawn, with several armoured cars and tanks.


Government troops were advancing early Friday but pockets of
resistance remained, according to a Western security official.


"The republican guard (presidential guard) has retaken the major
axes of Gombe," Didier Rancher, military spokesman for the UN
mission MONUC said, adding the government troops "clearly had the
upper hand."


Dozens of Bemba supporters had begun surrendering, he added.


A petrol storage tank was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in
flames near Ndolo air base in Gombe, diplomatic sources said. A
thick plume of smoke was visible from more than 10 kilometres
(six miles) away.


At least two civilians were killed and a dozen wounded in clashes
Thursday in Kinshasa, where the Greek embassy was hit by a shell.


The Greek government said the blast shattered windows and damaged
the interior of its mission building in Kinshasa, but there were
no casualties.


But a shell fired during the clashes in Kinshasa left two people
injured, one seriously, in Brazzaville in the neighbouring Congo
republic, located on the other side of the Congo River from DR
Congo, hospital sources said.


The violence broke out mid-morning Thursday near Bemba's home,
prompting residents to flee their homes and schools.


As the clashes intensified, Bemba took shelter in the South
African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


Bemba was elected a senator in January, a position that carries
immunity from prosecution during the term of office.


The DRC chief prosecutor, Tshimanga Mukeba, told AFP that
parliament would be approached with a request to lift Bemba's
immunity.


South Africa, which was a key contributor to the peace process in
the Democratic Republic of Congo, expressed deep concern at the
renewed violence and called for a ceasefire.


"The South African government appeals to all forces in the DRC to
immediately stop fighting" and take part in negotiations, deputy
foreign minister Aziz Pahad told reporters in Pretoria.


As well as South Africa, Britain, France and the United Nations
have called for the fighting to end.


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa since the government of
President Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to
scale down the military force protecting Bemba, a former rebel
leader.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated
as president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Since his election as a senator, Bemba has refused to have his
vice-presidential bodyguard integrated into the regular army,
arguing that his personal security could not be guaranteed.

