

Democratic Republic of Congo authorities on Friday issued an
arrest warrant for "high treason" against defeated presidential
candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba, as he sheltered in the South African
Embassy in Kinshasa.


The former vice president had sought refuge in the embassy on
Thursday night after heavy fighting broke out between members of
his personal bodygaurd and government troops.


"The judicial authorities... have issued an arrest warrant for
high treason against Jean-Pierre Bemba," government spokesman
Toussaint Tshilombo Send told AFP.


"Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces for his own
ends," the spokesman said.


The announcement of the warrant came as government troops and
Bemba loyalists clashed for a second day in the capital.


Light weapons fire and loud explosions from shells or mortars
were heard early Friday in the northern district of Gombe, where
Bemba's residence is located, AFP correspondents said.


Members of the presidential guard were deployed in force in the
streets since dawn, with several armoured cars and tanks.


An oil truck was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in flames
near Ndolo air base in Gombe, diplomatic sources said. A thick
plume of smoke was visible from more than 10 kilometres (six
miles) away.


At least two civilians were killed and a dozen wounded in clashes
Thursday in Kinshasa, which had been calm since fighting after
historic elections last year left about 30 people dead.


The violence broke out mid-morning Thursday near Bemba's home,
prompting residents to flee their homes and schools and for
ministries to close.


As the clashes intensified, Bemba sought refuge at the South
African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa since the government of
President Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to
scale down the military force protecting Bemba, a formal rebel
leader.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated
as president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.

