

North Korea's abrupt walk-out on nuclear talks over frozen funds
should ring alarm bells about the myriad of other pitfalls that
await the disarmament process, analysts said Friday.


Under a six-nation accord signed last month, North Korea has just
three weeks to close its main Yongbyon nuclear reactor and allow
United Nations' atomic inspectors back into the country as first
steps towards disarmament.


China and the United States have insisted the decision by the
Stalinist regime to abandon negotiations in Beijing on Thursday
should not place the deadline in doubt and that the North remains
committed to disarming.


Pyongyang will slip back into disarmament mode once the 25
million dollars in North Korean funds, frozen since 2005 in a
Macau bank due to US accusations of money laundering and
counterfeiting, is returned, they have argued.


The United States and China, which have different but equally
strong reasons for seeing the disarmament process succeed, have
said the delay in returning the money is only due to technical
problems.


But Yun Duk-Min, from the Institute for Foreign Affairs and
National Security, a research arm of South Korea's foreign
ministry, was one of a number of North Korea watchers who
expressed less confidence on Friday about the short and long-
term prospects for disarmament.


"It is hard to predict whether the April 14 deadline will be met
or not," Yun said in reference to the date that North Korea is
required under the six-nation accord to shut down Yongbyon and
welcome back UN inspectors.


"This episode proves again that North Korea is not an easy
partner to negotiate with. It shows what a tough road ahead there
is before North Korea is fully disarmed."


One fundamental obstacle is the lack of trust between North Korea
and the other parties in the six-nation process, particularly the
United States but even China, Pyongyang's long-time ally.


North Korea, which is one of the most politically isolated
nations in the world, refused to negotiate in the six-party forum
this week even after being reassured by China that the money
would be transferred.


"It (North Korea's walk-out) testifies to a wall of distrust
between North Korea and the other countries," a South Korean
official involved in the talks but who did not want to be named
said on Thursday.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill said after the talks broke up
that the incident highlighted the degree of North Korea's
isolation.


"It has been difficult to return money to them even when everyone
wants to return money to them," he said.


Hill earlier professed to not truly understanding the mindset of
the North Koreans.


"The day I explain to you the North Korean thinking is the day I
have been in this process too long," he said.


The director of the Centre for Korean Peninsula Studies at the
Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, Liu Ming, said the distrust
factor was a vital part of the process that would repeatedly hold
up the disarmament process in the months and years to come.


"The money transfer is only one of those complicated knots in the
six-party talks," Liu said, pointing to bigger future obstacles
such as North Korean demands to be removed from a US terrorist
listing and for its companies to be allowed to trade with the
United States.


"They are likely to be hard nuts to crack in the long-term future
of the six- party talks."

