

England on Friday began a 100-day countdown to a smoking ban in
enclosed public places, as concerns emerged in Scotland about a
sharp dip in trade since restrictions were introduced there a
year ago.


Launching a campaign to prepare businesses for the ban on July 1,
public health minister Caroline Flint said the restrictions were
supported by a majority of the public.


England will become the last part of the United Kingdom to go
smoke-free: smoking was banned in enclosed public places in
Scotland on March 26 last year and will be outlawed in Wales on
April 2 and Northern Ireland on April 30.


"The new law will protect everyone from the harm of secondhand
smoke at work and in public places, and will save lives," Flint
said in a statement.


A government-commissioned survey suggested that 74 percent of the
population supported the new legislation and more than three-
quarters of all businesses (77 percent) were aware of it.


It also indicated that trade in pubs may not be hit: 65 percent
said the new law would not affect how often they go to the pub,
while 15 percent said they would go more often.


Some 75 percent said the measures would improve health, the poll
of 1,726 people by ICM Research found.


But north of the border with England, the Scottish Licensed Trade
Association said the smoking ban had had a negative impact on
business after a survey of 530 pubs.


Some 34 percent of its 1,500 members had had to shed staff, drink
sales were 11 percent below pre-ban levels and food sales were
down three percent, with many landlords blaming fewer people
frequenting their pubs.


"We were never properly and fairly consulted on the ban and our
warnings were ignored," said the trade body's chief executive
Paul Waterson.


"Now we have to live with the consequences of losing loyal
workers and pubs being under threat."


The devolved government in Edinburgh disputed the association's
claims. Health minister Andy Kerr said more people were giving up
smoking, tobacco sales were down and he had met nobody who wanted
to turn back the clock.


Smokers who defy the ban in England face a fine of up to 200
pounds (295 euros, 393 dollars), with penalties for licensed
premises and businesses not displaying "no smoking" signs.

