

A stubborn Chinese homeowner has become a national cause celebre
for holding up a major property development in southwest China in
a three-year battle to protect her house.


Wu Ping's modest two-storey brick dwelling in Chongqing city is
now one of the most recognisable homes in China thanks to widely
circulated pictures of the structure sitting defiantly in the
middle of an excavated construction pit.


A court-set deadline for her to relent passed on Thursday but the
49-year-old Wu, dubbed the "stubborn nail" by Chinese media,
vowed to fight on in a case that has highlighted the widespread
property disputes in China.


"I'm not stubborn or unruly, I'm just trying to protect my
personal rights as a citizen. I will continue to the end," Wu was
quoted as saying in the state-run Legal Daily on Friday.


After accepting compensation offers from the builders of the
planned residential complex, 280 households have moved out.


But Wu, who now lives elsewhere due to difficulty accessing her
home, has not budged even as bulldozers excavated the site around
her.


A legal battle has raged since she rejected the compensation
offer as she has maintained that she cannot be forced to move
out.


A local court ordered her to allow the structure to be torn down
by Thursday, although she continued to refuse and it was not
immediately clear what steps authorities would take next.


Property disputes are rife in China, often involving illegal land
grabs by developers in collusion the government.


The national parliament passed a landmark law solidifying private
property rights this month partly to combat such disputes.


Wu's case has generated wide discussion in the media and Chinese
blogs.


"If this case of the 'lonely island' persists, it could become a
landmark test for Chinese law," said an editorial in the China
Youth Daily on Friday.


"If the government does not respect people's rights in the case,
it will raise suspicions about the entanglement of civil rights,
property development and government interests."

