

India's inflation rate remained unchanged near two-year highs of
almost 6.5 percent, according to data on Friday, keeping the
government under pressure to stem rising prices.


The wholesale price index, India's most closely watched cost-of-
living monitor, showed inflation was 6.46 percent for the week
ending March 10, the same level as the previous week and slightly
below analysts' forecasts.


But the rate, which was just 3.80 per cent a year ago, was still
sharply above the ceiling of 5.5 percent set by the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI), the central bank.


Inflation hit a more than two-year high of 6.73 percent in early
February.


Subduing inflation has become an urgent priority for the ruling
Congress government after increasing prices were cited by
analysts as a key factor in its defeat in two state elections
last month.


In April, Congress faces a crucial election in politically
pivotal Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, that is seen
as a dress rehearsal for parliamentary polls that are at most two
years away.


Investment bank Goldman Sachs forecast in a research note earlier
this week inflation would remain above six percent in the near
term due to a low year- earlier base effect but should fall below
that level next month.


The latest figures came after the deputy chairman of the Planning
Commission, a top economic policymaking body, warned that any
"extraordinary steps" to contain inflation may prove "counter-
productive" and harm growth.


"One should not look for instant results (from steps taken to
check inflation). Very quick steps may result in damage," said
Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who a few days earlier had voiced fears
about the economy overheating.


India is expected to post growth of 9.2 percent for this fiscal
year to end- March and close to nine percent for the next year.


The central bank has been tightening monetary policy since late
2004 but has recently accelerated the pace, using a variety of
tools such as draining excess cash from the banking system to
clamp down on surging credit and liquidity growth. It reviews
monetary policy again on April 24,


Credit is growing by an annual 30 percent while money supply is
expanding by 20 percent, fuelling inflation.


The central bank said last week it would "take all possible
monetary actions" to curb rising prices.

