

The Auckland Blues repaid coach David Nucifora for his faith in
his second string players as they thumped the New South Wales
Waratahs 34-6 in a Super 14 rugby match here Friday.


Nucifora resisted the opportunity to call up his four returning
All Blacks -- apart from a brief cameo by hooker Keven Mealamu --
and was rewarded with an entertaining performance in which his
side took a maximum five points.


The Blues' running on to the ball from depth, and clever switches
of play -- all at a pace the Waratahs struggled to match --
resulted in four tries and their sixth win from seven outings.


They head the points table on 28 after the opening match of round
seven, although the Sharks can reclaim first place if they beat
the Brumbies on Sunday, while the Waratahs are still firmly
rooted in second to last place.


Blues flanker Daniel Braid was in exceptional form, both with his
rock-solid defence and link work on attack, and was rewarded with
the opening try when he stormed over the line with three Waratahs
failing to bring him down.


Skipper Troy Flavell scored twice, including the late bonus-point
try in the 74th minute, and was again the dominant figure in the
tight.


But while the Blues played with confidence, ready to attack from
any quarter, the Waratahs were disorganised and never settled.


Even the chance of a late consolation try went astray when Ben
Jacobs' pass to an unmarked Lachlan Turner went into touch to end
the game.


It's been a disappointing season for the Waratahs, who started
the season with the form that took them to the semi-finals last
year, but have since gone six consecutive matches without a win.


"We're doing the simple things poorly," said a dejected Waratahs
captain Adam Freier.


In contrast, the Blues' passing and ability to keep attacks alive
ensured they were rarely scrambling to defend.


They were quickly 10-0 up with a penalty by Luke McAlister, who
also converted Braid's try on his way to a personal match tally
of 14 points.


He also converted Flavell's opening try and the Blues led 17-6 at
half-time with the Waratahs' points coming from two Peter Hewat
penalties.


In the second spell Mcalister added a second penalty and
converted tries by Steve Devine and Flavell to round out the
scoring.

