

Maoist rebels waging a decades-old insurgency in the Philippines
may be plotting to introduce squads of assassins into Manila's
slums, reviving an unpopular urban guerrilla campaign, a senior
military official warned Friday.


Philippine army chief Lieutenant-General Romeo Tolentino was
defending the controversial decision to garrison some of the
sprawling shantytowns that dot the capital city of more than 10
million people.


"We have intelligence reports that the enemy of the state is
trying again have a foothold here," Tolentino told reporters. "We
don't want that to happen."


He said the New People's Army (NPA) was trying to build an
"advance staging point" in the Payatas area of northern Manila,
where a large community of garbage collectors live on mountains
of garbage near the House of Representatives and La Mesa dam, the
city's sole tap water source.


Tolentino stressed he has no plans to withdraw the military
units, normally engaged in remote rural areas where the NPA wages
a classic Maoist strategy of isolating the cities.


"Are they not always saying that they want to surround the city
from the countryside? Now they want to enter the city because
they could not establish a foothold in the countryside, they are
losing the war there," he said.


The 7,000-member NPA, the guerrilla unit of the Communist Party
of the Philippines, has been waging a Maoist insurgency to seize
power in the country for nearly 40 years.


The group assassinated about 200 soldiers and police in Manila in
the late 1980s in a bid to speed up the pace of the rebellion,
hoping the general population would rise up against the
government.


But the campaign triggered a popular backlash after the rebels
started burning buses during general strikes.


The Netherlands-based guerrilla leadership purged the
insurrectionists and ordered its cadres to return to "mass base-
building" work in rural areas.


Twenty-five other impoverished Manila neighbourhoods have been
targeted as NPA operations bases, Tolentino said, adding that the
infiltration was at an early stage. "They are trying to gauge the
reaction of the neighbourhoods to their presence," he added.


Similar NPA attempts have been monitored in large provincial
cities such as Cebu in the central Philippines, he added.


"An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. We are
preventing them from coming here."


Tolentino said the police lacked the resources to confront the
NPA in the cities.


He said the UN had given special training to soldiers deployed in
the cities to confront the new NPA threat.

