

Japan said Friday it will open a new inquiry to examine any links
between the blockbuster flu medicine Tamiflu and abnormal
behaviour among users following a spate of recent teenage deaths.


Having previously said there is no clear evidence of a causal
link between Tamiflu and the incidents, the health ministry said
it would now seek expert opinion to review possible cases in the
past.


"We need to go over it again as accidents involving young people
occurred quite often," Health Minister Hakuo Yanagisawa told
reporters.


"It's not that we have any new knowledge about the drug, but
there is no excuse for doing nothing after a series of
accidents," he said.


Around 1,800 cases of side-effects from Tamiflu have been
reported since February 2001, when the antiviral medicine was put
into the Japanese market.


"We will now look at each case thoroughly and carefully again," a
spokesman for the health ministry said.


The ministry said it had received 22 reports of abnormal
behaviour since 2004, including four deaths. Of those, 15 were
teenagers and seven adults.


Japan earlier this week said it would review its stance after
ordering the importer of Tamiflu to warn doctors not to prescribe
the drug to teenagers.


"We need to re-examine the problem cases as soon as possible,
including cases of sudden deaths," Yanagisawa later told
parliament.


Japan has seen more than a dozen cases of young people jumping or
falling from buildings after being prescribed the drug.


In a recent case, a 14-year-old boy leapt to his death last month
from the 11th floor of an apartment block.


Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche, which makes the anti-flu
medicine, has repeatedly denied any connection between the
incidents and its drug, which is often prescribed for seasonal
flu.


Tokyo buys more than 60 percent of the world's supply of Tamiflu,
which is also considered a frontline drug against a potential
pandemic of bird flu or other forms of influenza.


Japan has previously conducted investigations involving 2,800
people under 15 who caught conventional influenza, but found no
meaningful differences in behaviour between those who took
Tamiflu and those who did not.

