

Serbia's Democrats have accepted a demand by Vojislav Kostunica
that he keep the prime ministership in a new government on
condition they secure ministries dealing with war crimes, a
report said Friday.


The Democratic Party (DS) had made the concession after its
candidate for the role, Bozidar Djelic, was rejected by
Kostunica's party in talks to hammer out a coalition government
earlier this week, said the Blic newspaper.


President Boris Tadic's Democrats are still struggling to find a
compromise in forming a government with Kostunica's Democratic
Party of Serbia (DSS) and the G17 Plus party more than two months
since January 21 polls.


An agreement now hinged on the acceptance by Kostunica's party
that the Democrats secure portfolios dealing with war crimes,
namely the ministries of defence and interior, said Blic.


However, "Kostunica isn't satisfied with the offer of the prime
ministership and some meaningless ministries," the daily quoted
an unnamed source close to the talks as saying.


"On the other hand, the Democrats want to be sure that they will
have control over the new government," said the source.


"Tadic has indicated he is ready to take responsibility for
Kosovo, cooperation with The Hague and for European integration,
but the position of the DS has to be in accord with this
responsibility."


The pro-European Democrats and moderate nationalist DSS were now
unlikely to come to an agreement on forming a new coalition
government with the G17 Plus party until early next month, added
the source.


In May 2006, the European Union suspended rapprochement talks
with Kostunica's outgoing government over its lack of cooperation
with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia.


EU enlargement commissioner Olli Rehn this week urged Serbian
politicians to establish a new cabinet that ensured "a clear
chain of command" for better cooperation with ICTY.


The Hague-based UN tribunal is still seeking six Serbs wanted in
relation to crimes committed in the 1990s wars that shattered the
former Yugoslavia, most notably former Bosnian Serb general Ratko
Mladic.


In the elections, the ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party
(SRS) garnered the most support for a single political grouping,
but fell short of a majority with 81 places in the 250-seat
parliament.


Tadic's Democrats won 64 seats, Kostunica's DSS 47 and the G17
Plus 19.

