

Jamaican police think it likely that Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer
was strangled by someone he knew after his team's defeat at
cricket's World Cup showpiece, a senior officer told British
radio Friday.


"It seems difficult to believe at this stage that it was a
complete stranger," the deputy police commissioner in Kingston
Mark Shields said in an interview with BBC Radio Live.


"It is imperative that we keep an open mind, but I have to say at
this stage it looks as if it may be somebody somehow linked to
him, because clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it
may be that he knew who that person was."


Shields said that police were studying video recordings from the
hotel's closed circuit television cameras but had not yet found
anything suspicious.


Shields also "unequivocally dismissed" rumours that arrests had
been made. "That's nonsense, as far as I'm concerned. There's
actually no truth in that," he said.


In a press conference Thursday, Jamaican police spokesman Karl
Angell confirmed Woolmer had been the victim of foul play.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


"In these circumstances, the matter of Mr. Robert Woolmer's death
is now being treated by the Jamaica police as a case of murder."


Woolmer was declared dead in hospital Sunday after being found
unconscious in his room. He was 58.


The day before Pakistan -- the 1992 World Cup winners -- were
knocked out of the 2007 version in the Caribbean.


"I don't want to talk about suspects at this stage," Shields said
Thursday.


He suggested more than one person may have been involved because
he was a large man and probably difficult to subdue.


Pakistan team spokesman Pervez Mir meanwhile underlined that
there was no question of the Pakistan team having been detained
or prevented from leaving Jamaica.


"It has never been the case that we have been detained or will be
detained or anything of that sort," he told BBC Radio Four.


"We went through the usual questioning by the police, which the
police have done to all the other sides and all the guests at the
hotel. The question never arose that the Pakistan team might be
detained."


David Morgan, chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board and
a director of the International Cricket Council (ICC), meanwhile
voiced his grief at Woolmer's death.


"Cricket mourns Bob's passing and I mourn his passing on a
personal basis. He was a very considerable force in the world of
cricket," he told the BBC, adding he had no doubt Woolmer would
want the World Cup to continue.


He declined to comment on speculation that Woolmer's murder could
have been linked to alleged match-fixing, beyond saying that
cricket was "a much cleaner game than it once was" thanks to the
ICC's anti-corruption and security unit.


The ICC had "no evidence at all" of match-fixing activities on
the pitch in recent months, he added.


Meanwhile British police confirmed that they have volunteered to
help with the investigation, and retired Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Lord Condon is on standby to go to Jamaica.


Lord Condon was commissioned by the ICC to write a report into
cricketing corruption in 2001.

