

US Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman has called for the planned
Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline to be abandoned, saying it could
help Iran build nuclear weapons, according to a report on Friday.


"There have been talks among Iran, India and other countries
about finding ways of developing Iran's oil and gas assets,"
Bodman was quoted by the Hindu newspaper as saying.


"If that is allowed to go forward, in our judgment, this will
contribute to the development of nuclear weapons," Bodman told
reporters, the Hindu said.


"We need to stop this," Bodman said after attending a discussion
on "Indo-US Nuclear Cooperation" organised by a business group in
Mumbai, India's financial capital.


India and Pakistan, despite being US allies in its global "war on
terror," have said they want to go ahead with the the
2,600-kilometre (1,600-mile) Iranian pipeline project as they
need energy to fuel economic growth.


Bodman said he had conveyed US concern about the natural gas
pipeline at the "highest level" to the Indian government, the
newspaper said.


But "we continue to work with the Indian government to finalise"
a landmark nuclear deal between the United States and India
allowing export of civilian nuclear fuel and technology to India,
the energy secretary said.


The nuclear deal was signed into law nearly three months ago by
US President George W. Bush.


"These two concerns (the pipeline and nuclear deal) operate in
separate areas," Bodman said.


Bodman's comments came as sponsors of a UN Security Council
measure to reinforce sanctions against Iran for its nuclear
program were ready to put it to a vote, likely on Saturday.


The draft resolution would ban the Islamic republic from
exporting arms and calls for voluntary trade sanctions, among
other moves.


Talks on the pipeline began in 1994 but stalled due to tensions
between rivals Pakistan and India. Resumption of the discussions
followed the start of a slow- moving peace process between the
South Asian nations in 2004.


The United States has been pushing for another pipeline to South
Asian countries from Turkmenistan via Afghanistan.


Washington accuses Tehran of supporting terrorism and trying to
make a nuclear bomb.


Iran plans to lay a pipeline from the giant South Pars gas field
to carry 90 million standard cubic meters per day of gas. One
third will be used by Iran while Pakistan and India will get
another third each.


Separately an Indian news agency reported differences between
India and Pakistan over how much Islamabad wants to charge New
Delhi for transporting the gas across Pakistani territory.


However, Mukhtar Ahmad, energy advisor to Pakistani Prime
Minister Shaukat Aziz, said he was sure the dispute could be
settled.


"We are very hopeful we will converge on all the issues" and a
tripartite deal will be signed in June, said Ahmad after talks
with India's Petroleum Minister Murli Deora in New Delhi late on
Thursday.

