

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon was in Egypt Friday on the
second leg of a Middle East tour amid a flurry of diplomatic
activity in the region aimed at re- energising the peace process.


Ban, who arrived from Baghdad, was expected to meet Egyptian
Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit on Friday, foreign ministry
sources told AFP.


During his two-day visit, he was also to hold talks with
President Hosni Mubarak and Arab League Secretary General Amr
Mussa.


The UN chief will leave Egypt for Israel, the Palestinian
territories and Jordan. He is then to address the opening session
of an Arab summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on Wednesday before
travelling on to Lebanon.


Ban sees "a renewed dynamism in diplomacy in the Arab world" and
wants to "express his support to ongoing efforts to re-energise
the Middle East peace process", UN spokeswoman Michele Montas
said Monday.


His visit comes on the eve of a new Middle East tour by US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice who arrives in Egypt Saturday
for talks with foreign ministers of regional allies Egypt,
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- the so-
called Arab Quartet.


Ban is to to meet Rice in Jerusalem on Sunday, UN officials said.


The flurry of diplomacy comes after Israeli officials expressed
renewed interest in a five-year-old Arab peace plan first drafted
by Saudi Arabia advocating full normalisation of relations in
return for a full withdrawal from occupied Arab land.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Thursday that the plan "could
certainly form a convenient basis for future talks between us and
moderate Arab elements".


"The Saudi initiative is interesting and contains many parts I
would be ready to accept ... not all of them," he added.


Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni has highlighted two clauses in the
Arab peace plan that pose problems for Israel -- one calling for
the right of return of Palestinian refugees from the 1948 Middle
East war and another ruling out their permanent settlement in
neighbouring Arab states where they have found refuge.


Rice will try to persuade moderate Arab leaders to amend the plan
to take into account the Israeli misgivings, a senior US official
said.


But it is likely to be a hard sell after the Egyptian foreign
minister made clear the plan was a comprehensive blueprint that
could not be cherrypicked.


Ban's visit also comes after the formation of a new Palestinian
unity government embracing the secular Fatah faction as well as
the Islamic militants of Hamas sparked a spate of Western
contacts with Palestinian ministers for the first time in a year.


The Quartet of major players in the Middle East peace process --
the European Union, Russia and the United States as well as the
United Nations -- announced Wednesday that they would maintain
the crippling aid freeze they imposed when Hamas first formed a
government in March last year.


But EU, UN and US officials have all met non-Hamas members of the
new cabinet while non-EU Norway went further meeting prime
minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas.


The Quartet agreed the new administration should "not be judged
solely on its "composition and platform, but also its actions".

