

Somalia's powerful Hawiye clan said Friday it had reached a
ceasefire agreement with the Ethiopian army, even as heavy
fighting erupted for a third straight day in the capital
Mogadishu.


Ethiopian military officials confirmed that a ceasefire meeting
took place in the Mogadishu residence of warlord Abdi Hassan
Awale Qeybdid, but fell short of confirming the truce.


Meanwhile, AFP correspondents and witnesses reported sporadic
gunfire between Ethiopian troops and insurgents in Mogadishu
after two straight days of heavy artillery exchnages that claimed
at least 24 lives and left hundreds wounded.


Residents reported exchanges of fire at the defence ministry
headquarters where Ethiopian troops are based.


"There is no face-to-face fighting, but Ethiopians in the camp
are receiving shots from long range machine guns and they are
returning fire in their direction," southern Mogadishu resident
Ahmed Yolah told AFP.


"The neighbourhood is very tense," said another resident Mohamed
Aden Ibrahim.


A spokesman for Hawiye clan elders, Ugas Abdi Dahir Mohamed, said
earlier that they had agreed with Ethiopian military officials to
implement a ceasefire.


Suspected Islamist insurgents are largely drawn from the
capital's dominant Hawiye clan.


"The Ethiopians will remain in their military compound and will
not militarily engage with Somalis. And for our part, the Hawiye
will not fire any shot and will respect the ceasefire," the
spokesman said.


The Hawiye elders command respect owing to their traditional role
of solving disputes, but their ability to apply a ceasefire is
limited by their clan's division into numerous sub-clans with
competing interests.


The Hawiye spokesman said the deal also covered the Somali troops
who rely on their well-trained and well-equipped Ethiopian
counterparts for firepower against the insurgents.


The government, which has vowed to keep fighting until it defeats
the insurgency, accepted the idea of a ceasefire but said it
should have been involved in the talks. The government did not
participate because the Hawiye elders do not recognise its
legality.


"A ceasefire, if any, should be reached and signed with the
government if necessary," said spokesman Hussein Mohamed
Muhamoud.


But he conceded: "It is good to hear from killers and violent
people that they will respect peace."


Clan sources said the agreement was the first since Somali-
Ethiopian forces routed the Islamist fighters from much of south
and central Somalia in January, sparking a deadly guerrilla-style
insurgency that has left scores dead.


However, Somali clans have been notorious in violating truce
agreements in the past.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from clan warlords.


A small force of some 1,500 Ugandan troops is in Somalia as part
of an African Union peacekeeping mission aimed to help government
troops regain control and enable Ethiopian forces to leave.


The United Nations on Thursday condemned the latest flare up and
called for an immediate truce to allow access of humanitarian
supplies to tens of thousands of displaced civilians.


Somalia has in been in turmoil since the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre cleared the way for a deadly power struggle.

