

An explosion at an arms depot near the international airport in
Mozambique's capital has left around 80 people dead and more than
100 injured, many of them children, government and emergency
services said Friday.


Exploding bombs, mines and rounds of ammunition ignited those
around them in the country's largest arms depot late Thursday, in
a series of blasts that could be heard around the city.


Explosives rocketed from the armoury, near the impoverished
neighborhood of Magoanine, and landed on nearby houses which went
up in flames, causing residents to flee in panic.


"We have more than 80 dead and at least 165 injured. Many are
still in the field. There are so many people still to be rescued,
as well as many bodies," said Bonifacio Antonio, spokesman for
the country's disaster management services.


A health ministry spokesman put the death toll at 72, with 360
injured.


Red Cross programme director Unice Mucaphe said people were still
being evacuated from the affected areas.


"There are eight neighborhoods where people live which are
affected," she said.


"People are still being evacuated, there are houses destroyed.
The difficulty is now to locate people because there are lots of
children who are lost," she said.


"A lot of children died, because its was during day time."


Antonio also said that most of the injured were children.


"Very many of the casualties were children. There are so many
children ... a lot of children were running in the streets,"
frightened by the initial blast and then hit by the impact of
subsequent explosions.


On the nature of the injuries he said: "Most of them are
amputations rather than burns."


While there was no official confirmation of the cause of the
explosion, it was thought to be due to the intense heat of the
afternoon.


"We have been experiencing high temperatures of 37 and 38 degrees
in the past months and this accumulation could have resulted in
the explosions," said ministry of defence spokesman Joaquim
Mataruca on state television channel TVM.


The Mozambican government has been in the process of destroying
the obsolete arms stored in a warehouse in the armoury.


"Recently we destroyed more than 100 tonnes of obsolete arms and
we will be destroying more in the near future," he said.


"It's the biggest armoury in the country. It contains thousands
of tonnes of weapons and ammunition," said Miguel Barreiro, a
United Nations official in charge of the country's disarmament
program.


President Armando Guebuza visited the scene of the blast on
Friday morning.


He had earlier appealed for calm among the citizens of Maputo
following the explosion.


"Our defence forces are working to assess the situation. We call
upon all our citizens to be calm until the situation is
rectified," Guebuza said in a five- minute speech on the national
television channel TvM.

