

Nepal's Maoists placed 25 bloodied corpses on display in the
capital on Friday after the leftists were killed by ethnic
activists in clashes that have cast a shadow over the nation's
peace process.


Maoist leader Prachanda placed orange flower garlands and draped
communist flags on the stinking corpses in an open air theatre in
the heart of Kathmandu after the bodies were airlifted from
southern Nepal.


The move came after hundreds of Maoists on Thursday gathered in
Durbar Square, the ancient heart of Kathmandu, to call for action
against the perpetrators of the violence and to demand government
compensation.


At least 29 people were killed and dozens injured in the violence
in the town of Gaur, situated 90 kilometres (57 miles) south of
Kathmandu and near the border with India.


The Maoists have demanded that their dead comrades be "declared
martyrs" and called on the government to provide compensation of
one million rupees (14,000 dollars) to the families of each
victim who died on Wednesday.


Journalists and human rights workers said local residents told
them of horrific scenes earlier this week of rape, burnings and
stabbings during what the local media has dubbed a "bloodbath."


Curfews were slapped on two towns in southern Nepal on Thursday
to prevent any more violence.


"Locals said that around 10 of the victims were severely beaten
and then set on fire while they were still alive," said Subodh
Singh, a reporter at the Nepali language daily newspaper
Kantipur.


"I saw the body of a naked woman with one of her breasts cut off.
Locals told me they thought she was raped before being killed,"
he said.


The violence in the southern plains, known as Nepal's bread
basket, has cast a cloud over the nation's peace deal, which
officially brought an end to ten years of civil war between
Maoist rebels and the government.


The area is dominated by the Mahadhesi ethnic group, whose
activists have been staging a series of deadly protests since
January in a bid to win greater representation in national
politics.

