

President Pervez Musharraf pledged Friday to make Pakistan an
"impregnable fortress of democracy" amid a crisis over his
removal of the country's most senior judge.


Military ruler Musharraf made the comment in a message marking
Pakistan Day, which celebrates a resolution signed in 1940 to
create a separate homeland for Muslims on the Indian
subcontinent.


"We will inshallah (God willing) make Pakistan an impregnable
fortress of democracy, peace, progress and attain our rightful
place in the comity of nations," he said in the message carried
by the official Associated Press of Pakistan.


The general, a key US ally in the "war on terror", added that for
Pakistan in recent years "the problems have indeed been many as
well as complex" but said that it had managed to overcome them.


The president oversaw an armed forces parade at the Jinnah
Stadium in Islamabad involving military jets, including the new
JF-17 fighter jointly developed with China, helicopters,
parachutists and soldiers.


A nuclear-capable cruise missile tested by Pakistan on Thursday
was also displayed.


Musharraf, who also heads the country's powerful army, faces the
biggest threat to his eight years in power as a result of his
suspension of Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on March
9.


Lawyers and opposition parties have since held nationwide
protests, claiming that Musharraf wants to weaken the judiciary
ahead of potentially controversial presidential and parliamentary
elections expected later this year.


Former prime minister Benazir Bhutto called on the United States
in an opinion peace in the Washington Post Monday to push
Musharraf to restore democracy, saying it was vital in rooting
out terrorism.


Musharraf ousted a civilian government in a bloodless coup in
1999. He held general elections in 2002 but reneged on his
promise to shed his military role in December 2004.


He changed the constitution with the backing of parliament,
allowing him to hold the position of the president as well as
chief of the army until 2007.

