

Takeover pressure on Spanish energy giant Endesa rose sharply on
Friday with a joint approach from Spanish and Italian companies
Acciona and Enel, the third offer in 18 months.


The two companies revealed their cross-border ambitions for the
electricity group in a challenge to a contentious offer from
German energy group E.ON.


E.ON has offered 41 billion euros (55 billion dollar) in a public
offer to Endesa shareholders which runs until March 29. Its
approach has been resisted by the Spanish government,


Another bid by Gas Natural has been abandoned.


Acciona announced in a statement that it and Enel were "studying
a project of shared management of Endesa under the control of
Acciona" but would make an offer only if the E.ON bid failed.


The two companies control 46-percent of Endesa's shares. E.ON
must obtain more than 50 percent for its bid to be successful.


Various press reports in Spain and Italy said Acciona, which has
interests in wind energy, and Enel, Italy's biggest oil group,
would be prepared to offer 40-42 euros per share for Endesa,
valuing the group at about 42 billion euros.


E.ON has offered 38.75 euros per share after twice raising its
bid price.


Initially it faced competition for Endesa from Spanish utility
Gas Natural which launched a hostile takeover offer for the group
in September 2005, the opening shot in the takeover struggle.


The interest in Endesa is part of a broader trend of
consolidation in the European energy market as leading utilities
seek to expand across national borders.


This process is being driven by liberalisation, which gives
European companies access to foreign markets in the EU bloc, and
a belief that size and scale are increasingly important amid
global competition for energy supplies.


The Spanish government has been hostile to efforts by E.ON to
acquire Endesa, however, and has tangled with the European
Commission over its attempts to intervene in the deal.


Madrid has stressed the importance of keeping the "strategic"
energy sector in Spanish hands, and a successful takeover by
Acciona with Enel as a junior partner appears to meet this goal.


Some observers see Acciona as a private industrial player acting
in the interests of the Spanish government.


Furthermore, Enel, a 32-percent state-owned group, began buying
shares in Endesa on February 27, a week after a Spanish-Italian
summit on the Spanish island of Ibiza.


Enel would nevertheless realise its foreign ambitions with the
takeover.


The group, which has built up a giant fund for acquisitions, had
attempted to buy French utility Suez last year, but its predatory
ambitions sparked plans for a defensive merger of Suez and state-
owned Gaz de France.


Acciona and Enel cautioned that no deal had been completed but
that talks were progressing well.


"Although talks have advanced positively, they have not yet ended
with a definitive agreement," Acciona said.


Enel said talks were at "an advanced stage."


Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore said that Enel and Acciona could
offer about 41 euros per Endesa share.


Analysts at the Credit Suisse investment bank said an offer would
be between 40-42 euros per share.


Shares in E.ON fell 1.94 percent to 99.36 euros on the Frankfurt
stock exchange in midmorning trading.


The group declined to comment on the Acciona-Enel statement.


Shares in Enel fell 1.03 percent to 7.89 euros, while shares in
Acciona gained 1.33 percent to 159.65 euros.

