

Warring tribesmen and foreign Al-Qaeda militants have agreed to a
ceasefire after four days of bloodshed in a Pakistani border
region that left up to 160 people dead, officials said Friday.


Islamic religious leaders mediated the ceasefire overnight in
mountainous South Waziristan, where Uzbek and Chechen insurgents
fought mortar and rocket battles with Taliban-sympathising local
tribes, they said.


"There has been no fighting since last night in South Waziristan
but fighters loyal to the rival factions are maintaining their
positions on hilltops," a local government source said.


"The ceasefire has been acheived because of the efforts of local
mullahs," he said.


Taliban militants, including one wanted for a series of deadly
suicide bombings in Pakistani cities, had brought the two sides
for negotiations on Thursday in the rugged region bordering
Afghanistan.


Fierce fighting broke out on Monday after ex-Taliban commander
Mullah Nazir, whom the government says has come over to its side,
ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


The battles killed 130 Uzbek and Chechan militants and between 25
and 30 tribesmen, the governor of North West Frontier Province
told a news conference in the provincial capital Peshawar.


Another 62 foreign fighters were arrested during the clashes,
including Chechens, Uzbeks and other foreigners, Ali Muhammad Jan
Aurakzai said.


But the local government source said the talks to return peace to
the area went into a second session after Friday prayers after
Nazir refused to withdraw his fighters unless foreign militants
handover their weaponery.


"Nazir has taken a strong line and he is adament that Uzbeks
disarm and hand over their weapons to the local tribal elders,"
the source said.


Pakistani officials have said the battles show the success of
Islamabad's policy of encouraging conservative tribesmen in its
border areas to drive out the militants themselves, instead of
using the army.


The United States and other Western allies have repeatedly urged
Pakistan to crack down on Islamic extremists in the mountainous
tribal belt, saying that Al- Qaeda and the Taliban were
regrouping and building training camps there.


Governor Aurakzai said this week's fighting had spread to a large
area of South Waziristan and tribesmen were chasing foreigners
who were hiding in the region.


"Local Waziristan people have risen against the foreigners in the
region on their own. They have realised that their presence was
causing trouble for the local population," Aurakzai said.


Aurakzai, a former army general, said there were an estimated 500
foreigners in the area, including Uzbeks, Chechens and Arabs,
according to tribesmen. Other recent estimates have been twice as
high or more.


Yuldashev and his followers were among thousands of militants who
fled Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in late 2001 and
sought refuge with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
border zone.


The government has denied claims by local sources that it has
covertly armed and financed the tribesmen and helped former
"jihadi" fighters linked to insurgencies in Indian Kashmir and
Afghanistan to infiltrate the area.

