

Coaches Carlos Alberto Parreira of Brazil and Berti Vogts of
Germany ruled the international football roost a decade ago.


Brazil lifted the 1994 World Cup in the United States under the
guidance of Parreira and Vogts guided Germany to European
championship success in England two years later.


Those victories were achieved before capacity crowds at the Rose
Bowl in Los Angeles and Wembley Stadium in London, a far cry from
the venues where the two coaches make competitive debuts in
Africa on Saturday.


Parreira has signed a four-year deal with 2010 World Cup hosts
South Africa worth 250,000 dollars a month and his first
challenge is an African Nations Cup Group 11 qualifier at lowly
Chad.


A World Cup winner as a player, 65,000-dollars-a-month Vogts is
slightly more fortunate because new employers Nigeria enjoy home
advantage over Uganda in a top-of-the-table Group 3 clash in the
south-west town of Abeokuta.


South Africa were held goalless at home by Congo before winning
in Zambia for the first time, a result that leaves Bafana Bafana
(The Boys) level with the Congolese 'Red Devils' on four points.


With Congo expected to defeat Zambia in Brazzaville, South Africa
need the three points on offer in N'Djamena as only the group
winners are guaranteed a place at the 2008 tournament in Ghana.


While Parreira dreams of making South Africa the Brazil of
Africa, he knows attractive football is out of the question on an
N'Djamena pitch described as a "dusty crater" in the middle of
the central African city.


"We need to play effective football to get three points. We need
discipline, attitude and commitment. If we play to 75 percent of
our potential, I believe things will come out well," predicted
Parreira.


Chad, who lie 28 places below 1996 Nations Cup holders South
Africa in the continental rankings, have been busy with three
wins in four outings helping the hosts finish third this month in
the Central Africa championship.


Nigeria share with Cameroon and Angola the only 100 percent
records among the 46 countries chasing 15 tickets to Accra and
should prove too strong for Uganda, who are second on four
points.


"Germans are known to be interested only in results but with the
huge number of talented Nigerian footballers it is equally
important for me that they also put up a good performance,"
demanded Vogts.


He has already experienced the frustration of being an
international coach with injury ruling out goalkeeper Vincent
Enyeama and recalled Newcastle defender Celestine Babayaro.


Cameroon, ranked first in Africa, have placed local Jules Nyongha
in temporary charge after Dutch coach Arie Haan quit and are
favoured to beat modest Group 5 rivals Liberia in Yaounde.


Inspired by striker Flavio Amado from African club champions Al-
Ahly of Egypt, Angola should maintain their perfect Group 6
record at home to pool surprise packets Eritrea.


Seeking a place among the finalists for the first time since
1980, leaders Tanzania face their biggest Group 7 test away to
Senegal, a nation that has failed to build on its heroic 2002
World Cup performances.


Injury-ravaged Group 1 leaders Ivory Coast meet Madagascar in
Antananarivo while defending champions and Group 2 pacesetters
Egypt entertain Mauritania  in Cairo minus hurt striker Ahmed
'Mido' Hossam.


Birmingham City defender Radhi Jaidi has come out of retirement
to help Group 4 table-toppers Tunisia in the Seychelles and
Algeria will expect to consolidate their Group 8 leadership at
home to the Cape Verde Islands.


Former Nigeria star Stephen Keshi begins a second spell in charge
of Group  9 contenders Togo when Sierra Leone visit Lome and
Group 10 leaders Democratic Republic of Congo host poor
travellers Ethiopia.


There are only three teams in Group 12 and a Zimbabwe side led by
Portsmouth striker Benjamin 'Benjani' Mwaruwari must overcome
leaders Morocco in Harare to atone for a surprise loss in Malawi
last October.


A further two qualifying rounds are scheduled for June and one
for September after which the 12 group winners and the best three
runners-up among the 10 four-team pools advance to the biennial
championship.

