

The chief US envoy to North Korean nuclear talks insisted Friday
the Stalinist regime was committed to ending its atomic
programme, despite a dramatic breakdown in negotiations on
disarmament.


North Korea walked out of the six-nation talks on Thursday after
four days of deadlock because 25 million dollars in frozen funds
had not been returned, despite pledges from the other parties
that it would soon get the money.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
insisted the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill told reporters before
flying back to Washington.


Immediately following the breakdown Hill had said the process
remained "on track", while the US State Department also
officially remained upbeat.


Envoys from China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and
Russia came together on Monday for their first meeting since a
February 13 accord that set a timetable for the North to begin
disarming.


Under the deal, Pyongyang had 60 days to close Yongbyon and allow
inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, who were
kicked out in 2002, back into the country.


In exchange, it would immediately receive 50,000 tonnes of heavy
fuel for energy use, eventually rising to one million tonnes or
equivalent energy aid if it completely dismantles all its nuclear
programmes.


As part of the agreement, the United States said Monday it would
allow for the release of 25 million dollars of North Korean money
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 due to accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting.


The North had long insisted it would not begin disarming until it
got the money back, and the US announcement raised expectations
that the envoys would this week be able to discuss how to
implement the accord.


But the money, meant to be transferred into a North Korean
account at the Bank of China in Beijing, was never delivered.


While officials talked of "technical problems" for the delay, the
Bank of China said late Thursday it had still not been asked to
accept the transfer of the money.


The US State Department said Daniel Glaser, the US Treasury's
point man on this issue, would travel to Beijing "relatively
soon" in an effort to resolve the issue.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said Friday the issue
could be resolved finally by next week, but his nation's chief
envoy to the talks was not so sure.


"Maybe it could take two or three weeks. I don't know," Chun
Yung-Woo said in Beijing before heading home.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted Chuna as saying the Bank
of China had refused to accept the money for fear the transaction
may hurt its credit rating.


One concern raised by other officials was how money the United
States has claimed for so long was contaminated by money
laundering and counterfeiting could suddenly be cleared.


With that credit issue in mind, Chun said officials were now
trying to find a bank outside China to receive the funds.


"It seemed possible that the money will go to a bank in a third
country... that way, a solution is being worked out," Yonhap
quoted Chun as saying.


The six-nation talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the
North's nuclear weapons ambitions, but have been plagued by
disputes that eventually led Pyongyang to conduct its first
atomic test in October last year.

