

The first humans to receive spinal disc transplants experienced
no immune reactions and were relatively free of pain five years
after surgery, Chinese doctors in Hong Kong and Beijing reported
Friday.


Suffering from degenerative disc herniation -- a more technical
term for one form of chronic back pain -- along the upper spine,
the five patients, averaging 47 years in age, were given fresh-
frozen discs from deceased donors.


Five years later, neurological symptoms for all five had
improved, and there was only mild degenerative change in the
transplanted discs, the doctors who performed the operation
reported in the British medical journal The Lancet.


Millions upon millions of people the world over suffer from
agonizing back pain caused by worn out or damaged discs.


The term "degenerative" in this context refers to physical
erosion, not to any form of genetic or pathogenic disease.


"With further improvements in the areas of graft preservation,
repopulation of the graft with living cells, and surgical
techniques," wrote lead author Dike Ruan, an orthopedic surgeon
at Beijing's Navy General Hospital, replacing human spinal discs
could one day become a standard procedure.


"This issue is highly relevant because of the human and economic
cost of spinal disease," added Wafa Skalli and Jean Dubousset in
a commentary, also in the Lancet.


The study shows, they agreed, that "disc transplantation could be
an attractive alternative" to current treatments.


The most common remedy today, a partial fusion of the disc to the
spine, does not always relieve crippling pain. Full fusion works
better in this regard, but often accelerates the degeneration of
adjacent segments.


The five operations described in the study all focused on the
cervical spine, near the neck area. But "Extending this technique
to the lumbar spine" -- the lower back -- "where the anatomy ...
and magnitude of loading are more complex and hostile will be a
future challenge," the doctors concluded.


The human spine is an especially complex bit of architecture that
serves to protect the spinal cord, stabilize the head and trunk,
and ensure mobility while being tugged at by gravity and numerous
muscles.

