

The world's most high-risk earthquake zones should be considered
lethal and policy makers need warning systems in place in case of
a disaster like the 2004 Asian tsunami, a top geophysicist says.


"These systems need to be strong and they need to be maintained
over the long term because we have no way of knowing when the
next great earthquake will hit," wrote Robert McCaffrey,
professor of geophysics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in
Troy, New York, in an editorial in the journal Science.


He warned that seismologists simply do not have enough data to
predict with accuracy which of many faults in the Earth's crust
could yield the next magnitude 9.0 quake.


The December 2004 quake off Sumatra, Indonesia unleashed a
tsunami that devastated nations around the Indian Ocean. It
occurred in a known hotspot, a subduction zone where one tectonic
plate slips beneath another. Some 168,000 people died in Aceh
province.


Even so, seismologists thought the fault was an unlikely spot for
a quake. A hundred years of records indicated the age and speed
of the subducting plate were the most important factors in
determining the occurrence of a magnitude 9.0 quake.


Given the extent of the damage, McCaffrey wrote, the facts
suggest that the limited historical record is insufficient for
mapping a trend in geographical events that could span centuries
or millennia.


A magnitude 9.0 quake can be created by 20 meters of slip between
two converging plates. However, slips of this length only occur
every 200 to 1,000 years or more at a particular boundary,
leaving no historic records to track their frequency. Magnitude
9.0 quakes typically occur in subduction zones.


"It's not that the science is bad, but we don't have enough data.
We've only been watching these processes for 100 years,"
McCaffrey said.


In the absence of reliable forecasting data, policy makers should
consider all subduction zones, from Chile to Java, as lethal,
McCaffrey said.


The highest magnitude earthquake ever recorded was 9.5 in Chile
in 1960. Geologists now use moment magnitude scale, which
measures the maximum magnitude, the size of the quake's rupture,
amount of slip and the force released.


"Several are near densely populated land areas, and the potential
impacts of shaking and tsunamis cannot be overstated," he wrote.


Given the experience of 2004, and the fact that so much damage
was done so far from the quake zone, authorities should create
warning systems with input and support from many countries, he
said.


"We can never forget what happened," he wrote. "Now is the time
to use the knowledge that we have gained and work to save lives
should another magnitude 9.0 hit tomorrow or hundreds of years
from now.


"Many didn't know about tsunamis before the quake; we must make
sure that now they never fail to remember their destructive
force."

