

Major powers readied a draft resolution to slap new punitive
sanctions on Iran with a UN Security Council vote expected
Saturday as Tehran remained defiant over its nuclear program.


"Our intention is that there should be a vote Saturday,"
Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry told reporters after the
15-member Security Council met late Thursday to consider the
latest changes to a draft resolution.


"We'll meet tomorrow (Friday) for one final consideration. But
the text is in blue," indicating it is ready for an imminent
vote.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
draft was expected to receive overwhelming support.


The Security Council members reviewed minor changes made to the
text agreed last week by the five veto-wielding permanent members
-- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus
Germany.


Diplomats at UN headquarters said Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's intention to attend the Security Council vote on
sanctions had no bearing on the timing of the vote.


The Iranian leader, who was granted a visa by US authorities,
told French television Thursday that the proposed UN sanctions
were illegal, adding that he was "not worried" by the prospect of
US strikes against his country over the issue.


But he also promised to present what he called "new proposals"
about Iran's nuclear program.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it strives to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.


Amid mounting tensions over its nuclear ambitions, Tehran
announced it had launched naval military exercises, codenamed
"Power," in the Gulf to display the Islamic republic's "power and
defense capability."


"During these maneuvers frigates equipped with missiles,
warships, air-to-sea missiles and sea-to-air missiles are being
used, as well as tactical reconnaissance submarines," Admiral
Sajad Kushaki told state television.


"The Iranian people will not allow a single American soldier to
set foot on their soil."


Earlier this year US President George W. Bush announced the
United States was increasing its own naval presence in the Gulf,
in a move seen more directed at Iran than to support US forces in
Iraq.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.


The sponsors rejected South Africa's suggestions for a 90-day
suspension of UN sanctions to allow political negotiations with
Tehran and removal of the weapons ban and many of the financial
sanctions.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who chairs the council
this month, said the latest changes to the draft were merely
"cosmetic."


"We are disappointed because we made the amendments in good
faith," he added. "We expected they would give our capitals a
chance to look at what they could accommodate.... I don't know
what is left for my minister to do."


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


A proposal by Indonesia and Qatar to include in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery" also was
dismissed.


The proposed text also restated that an offer of generous
economic and diplomatic incentives made by the six powers to Iran
last year if it halts uranium enrichment "remains on the table".


The sanctions draft would give Iran 60 days to comply or face
"further appropriate measures," meaning economic sanctions but no
military action, under Article 41 of the UN Charter.

