

Bulgarian couple Albena Denkova and Maxim Staviski successfully
defended their ice dance title with a dazzling performance at the
world figure skating championships on Friday.


Marie-France Dubreuil and Patrice Lauzon of Canada finished
second, followed by Turin Olympic silver medal pair Tanith Belbin
and Benjamin Agosto of the United States in third.


"We fought for it. We worked very hard. We are very happy we can
perform like that. I feel great. Our coach (Natalia Linichuk)
cried," said Denkova.


"Last year I did not understand what was going on, but this year,
I understand well and I know what it is and I got the gold. That
is wonderful. We took every single step to get there," she added.


Staviski said: "This is the brilliant end for us. It was a
wonderful feeling. I want to thank everybody. It is a wonderful
end for us with second world title."


For Denkova and Staviski, the first Bulgarians to win the
category last year, it was their fourth podium finish, after they
took the bronze medal in 2003 and the silver in 2004.


The Bulgarians took top place after the original dance programme
on Thursday and held on for a total of 201.61 points.


Dubreuil and Lauzon, who had to be satisfied with silver last
year, trailed the Bulgarians by only 0.2 points coming into the
free dance but finished on 200.46 points.


"We skated with a lot of love and joy, and we just felt really
free out there, which felt great. This championship has been
great for us," said Dubreuil.


"It was our first world championship coming in as medallists from
last year, so being the chased skater instead of the one chasing
was a little bit different, but it was a great experience."


Belbin and Agosto received a total of 195.43 points, while
European champions Isabelle Delobel and Olivier Schoenfelder of
France, who defeated Denkova and Staviski into third in Warsaw in
January, were fourth with 195.19 points.


"We're happy with how we skated. We had a good season. We skated
some very good programmes and we have the victory at the European
championships. We performed better than in the past, so we are
pleased with our progress," said Delobel."

