

Brian Joubert seems ready to claim the title of "Quad King" in
his quest for Olympic gold after being crowned men's singles
champion in the world figure skating championships.


"I think figure skaters should try it (a quadruple jump)," he
said Thursday after becoming the first Frenchman in 42 years to
win the championships.


The agile 22-year-old landed a quadruple toeloop but played it
safe by changing a quadruple to a triple in a combination in the
free skating. Other medallists also executed four-revolution
jumps with varying degrees of success.


But Joubert, who is also aiming to become the first French
Olympic singles champion in Vancouver in 2010, acknowledged that
the three-year-old international judging system "is not good" for
four-revolution jumps.


A failure in the quad costs dear while skaters can gain points on
easier jumps.


"Maybe they'll make some changes for next season. I don't know,"
he said.


The victory crowned his winning streak this season. Joubert, the
world silver medallist in 2004 and last year, has also won two
Grand Prix events, the first Grand Prix final and his second
European title.


At the Cup of Russia last November, he landed three quads in the
free skating, a feat previously achieved only by American Timothy
Goebel in 1999.


"I did three quads because, for the future of figure skating, the
quad jump is very important," Joubert said.


Earlier in the short programme, he expressed disappointment
because only three in the 42-strong field attempted a quad. Only
Joubert made it.


Goebel, who retired from competition last year with two world
silver and one Olympic bronze medals under his belt, was known as
the "Quad King" for his mastery of the jump.


At the 1998 junior Grand Prix final, Goebel became the first
skater in the world to land a quadruple Salchow.


Canadian Kurt Browning was the first man to land a quad of any
kind. He landed a four-revolution toe-loop at the 1988 worlds.


Joubert has so far landed quadruple Salchows and toe-loops and is
now working on flips.


His success in Tokyo came in the absence of Russia's Olympic gold
medallist and three-time world champion Evgeni Plushenko, 24, a
master of quadruple combinations who was taking a season off from
competitive skating.


Joubert beat Switzerland's Stephane Lambiel, the Olympic silver
medallist who had won the last two world titles, into third spot
while Japan's Daisuke Takahashi top scored in the free skating to
finish second overall.


Canadian Jeffrey Buttle, who won the bronze at the Turin
Olympics, fell on a quad toeloop and finished sixth.


"I think about the next Olympics," said Joubert, who was sixth in
Turin. "We have to be ready. It's gonna be a very interesting
season next one. I'll have a lot of fighting for that."

