

Shock waves from the murder of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer
reverberated through international cricket Friday but organisers
insisted that the World Cup must go on.


Woolmer's death by strangulation a day after his team were
knocked out of cricket's showpiece has stunned the sport's
leaders and has become a diplomatic incident amid rumours of
involvement by match-fixing gangs.


Pakistan said it was rushing an envoy to Jamaica to liaise with
police there. But the International Cricket Council (ICC) decided
against halting the tournament.


"What we must all do now is to show how resolute the game is by
proving ourselves strong enough to move on from what has
happened," ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed said in a statement.


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport.


"By doing that we will demonstrate that cricket cannot be put off
by a cowardly criminal act," he said.


"If the players and officials of all the competing teams can do
that, then it would be a fitting tribute to Bob Woolmer and the
contribution he has made to our sport as a fine player and an
outstanding coach at all levels."


Australia backed the plan to carry on.


"With the news from the Jamaican police today, our thoughts at
this time are very much with the Woolmer family," a spokesman for
Cricket Australia said.


"This is naturally a distressing time for everyone involved in
cricket. We must now allow the relevant authorities appropriate
time and space to deal with their investigation into the
circumstances surrounding Bob Woolmer's death."


Asked if Cricket Australia supported the decision to not abandon
the tournament, he replied: "Absolutely."


Woolmer received more tributes from around the world.


"The news that Bob Woolmer was murdered has shattered us. It is a
quite unexpected event which we cannot yet quite believe,"
Mahmudur Rahman chief executive of the Bangladesh cricket board
told AFP.


"Our hearts go out to his family and we hope that the
investigation can get to the bottom of his murder so the
perpetrators can be punished," he added.


South African bowling great Allan Donald criticised the ICC
decision however. "I just don't know how this World Cup can
continue under the shadow of what's happened. World Cup 2007 will
be forever remembered for this."


Donald, who was a friend of Woolmer and played under him at
county level and for South Africa, told BBC radio: "My personal
opinion would have been to stop, but knowing Bob he would have
wanted this to go ahead."


"I think everyone will continue this World Cup but, at the back
of their minds, know that a tragedy took place."


The ICC chief executive said the entire cricket world was shocked
by the killing of Woolmer, a former England international, who
was found unconscious in his hotel room on Sunday.


"When we first learnt of Bob's death a wave of sadness washed
over the whole of the cricket community," said Speed.


"That sadness has now been replaced with a profound sense of
shock at the news that his death is being treated as murder, and
everyone connected with this event will assist the police in any
way possible to ensure the truth emerges."


World Cup managing director Chris Dehring added: "We have
reviewed security arrangements in conjunction with the ICC and
local agencies and consulted with all the teams and they have
told us they are comfortable with those arrangements.


"On that basis, it is up to the Jamaica Constabulary Force to get
on with its job while our focus now is on some great cricket to
come."


Among many rumours being put forward for the killing was that
Woolmer was about to reveal all about match-fixing.


But asked if the Pakistan team had discussed the possibility that
Woolmer's death might be linked to match-fixing, team spokesman
Pervez Mir said: "Absolutely not. The players as far as I know
have not spoken about any match- fixing or any match-fixing
incident because there is no question of that.


"I think they are more concerned about what has happened to Bob,"
he told Sky News.


Woolmer was the South Africa coach at the time that former
captain Hansie Cronje was bought off by bookmakers in 1996.
Woolmer was never alleged to have been involved though.

