

Gunmen on Friday kidnapped a foreigner working for a German
construction company in volatile oil-rich southern Nigeria,
police and industry sources said.


"The man was taken early this morning around 7:00 am (0600 GMT)
from the Bilfinger Berger premises in Port Harcourt and taken to
an unknown location," the police commissioner for Rivers State,
Felix Ogbaudu, told AFP.


A military officer in the region, which is the hub of Nigeria's
oil industry, confirmed the abduction, while a spokesman at the
Mannheim headquarters of Bilfinger Berger AG, Sascha Bamberger,
told AFP he was so far unaware of any such incident.


Ogbaudu said the man kidnapped was a German national but an
industry source said he was "thought to be Dutch".


Neither the German nor Dutch foreign ministries were immediately
able to comment.


This latest kidnapping brings to three the number of foreigners
currently held by armed groups in southern Nigeria.


Two Chinese nationals were abducted on March 17 in the
southeastern state of Anambra.


The previous day the last foreign hostage held in the region, a
Frenchman working for oil group Total SA, was released after a
month in captivity.


His release came 24 hours after that of two Italians who had been
in captivity for more than three months.


But the abduction of the Chinese, who were seized from their
factory, meant that the hostage-free situation in southern
Nigeria lasted barely 24 hours.


Since the start of this year about 60 foreigners, most of them
with links to the oil industry, have been kidnapped in Nigeria,
as many as were abducted during the whole of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, have
been abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom
money and armed groups with a political agenda.


The most high-profile of these groups is the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), which says it wants a
fairer distribution of Nigeria's oil wealth.


No group has so far claimed responsibility for this latest
incident. But when it released its two long-term Italian
hostages, MEND had threatened to seize other expatriates to
"replace" them.


It also vowed to increase its attacks on the oil industry and on
the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is to step
down at the end of May.


The group said it would seize more hostages from industrial
installations "thought to be secure" to "dispel the false sense
of well-being gradually building up in the oil industry."


It also warned it might use car bombs.


The MEND statement challenged assurances given a few days earlier
by Obasanjo when he met Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi in
Rome.


Obasanjo said Nigeria's government was "fully prepared and able"
to provide adequate security for oil workers and installations in
the volatile Delta.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros) last year,
according to official sources.

