

A complete meltdown in troubled Zimbabwe appeared inevitable,
neighbouring South Africa said Friday while rejecting rising
international calls to condemn President Robert Mugabe's regime.


"It is difficult to see how a total meltdown won't take place,"
South Africa's foreign affairs minister, Aziz Pahad, told
reporters in Pretoria -- pointing to Zimbabwe's 1,700-plus
percent inflation.


But Pahad rejected Western condemnation of South Africa's policy
of quiet diplomacy towards its northern neighbour, saying it
should be termed "constructive diplomacy" and that of its critics
"megaphone diplomacy."


While foreign governments criticised South Africa for not
reacting strongly enough to Zimbabwe's political and economic
down spiral, "we haven't been told what is not strong, and what
else we should have said," said Pahad.


And he blamed foreign governments for failing Zimbabwe, saying
the current situation could have been avoided had the European
Union and the United States kept open communication with Africa
and Zimbabwe and formulated a common approach to what has been
clear for years was an impending crisis.


"If outside governments played a more constructive role from the
outset, we would not have had the crisis in Zimbabwe," Pahad
said.


While South Africa was concerned about the situation up north, he
added, it would not "make militant statements to make us look
good."


He ruled out the possibility of an African intervention force
being deployed to Zimbabwe, saying the issue was being dealt with
on a political level "bilaterally, through the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) and the African Union (AU)."


South Africa with these regional bodies remained seized with
Zimbabwe's problems, Pahad said. All were doing their part to
help, he added, without elaborating.


The SADC organ on politics, defence and security was expected to
meet in Tanzania later this month to discuss the situation in
Zimbabwe.


Meanwhile, "we call on all Zimbabweans, and I repeat all, to
respect the rule of law and not take any actions that will
exacerbate tensions," Pahad said.

