

The murder of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer has highlighted the dark
side of a sport once known as the gentleman's game but which is
now plagued by underworld match-fixing gangs.


Jamaica police, while confirming that Woolmer was strangled to
death a day after Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup
following their loss to unfancied Ireland, have ruled out mugging
as a likely motive.


The police have stressed they do not suspect anyone yet of the
crime, but fingers are once again being pointed at the powerful
betting and match-fixing mafia that has become synonymous with
cricket.


A notorious gangster Babloo Srivastava brazenly appeared on
Indian television channels on Thursday to suggest that the
country's most wanted man, Dawood Ibrahim, may be behind the
murder.


"The Pakistan-Ireland match must have been fixed," Srivastava
told reporters while he was being taken to court in the north-
west city of Lucknow for a hearing on an unrelated murder case.


"The D-Company (Ibrahim's gang) may have lots of money at stake.
Woolmer may have got an inkling of the fixing and hence he was
killed."


In normal times, Srivastava's statement would have been scoffed
at as a bizzare attempt by an underworld figure trying to get
even with another with whom he had reportedly fallen out.


But these are not normal times and Ibrahim, wanted by India for
the 1993 Mumbai bombings which killed more than 200 people, has
long been suspected by police of being the match-fixing kingpin.


India's Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which probed a
match-fixing scandal in 2000 after Delhi Police taped former
South African captain Hansie Cronje's conversations with illegal
bookmakers, alluded to the underworld's links with cricket in its
report.


"During the inquiry," the CBI report said, "it was learnt that
the lure of easy money has gradually attracted the underworld
into this racket.


"It seems that it is only a matter of time before major organized
gangs take direct control of this racket, a phenomenon that will
have implications not only for cricket but for national security
as a whole."


The CBI investigations and subsequent action from cricket bodies
around the world led to life bans being imposed on three Test
captains, Cronje, Mohammad Azharuddin of India and Salim Malik of
Pakistan.


Cronje, who accepted having links with bookmakers but denied he
was involved in match-fixing, was killed in a plane crash near
Cape Town in 2002.


The International Cricket Council (ICC) formed an anti-corruption
unit in 2000 that now oversees every one-day international and
Test match played in any part of the world.


Woolmer's tragic demise is not the first instance of a cricket-
related murder that could have links with the underworld.


The body of a well-known Pakistani bookmaker, Hanif Kodvavi alias
Hanif Cadbury, was found badly mutilated in Johannesburg in 1999
amid speculation he was killed for not paying up betting money.


Indian police regularly bust betting rings across the country
whenever cricket internationals are played, but the absence of
any clear laws against illegal bookmaking sees offenders get off
lightly.


Some are not even caught. Sanjiv Chawla, whose taped
conversations with Cronje triggered the match-fixing scandal, has
been out of the reach of police even though he is believed to be
holed up in London.


No one still knows the real identity of "John", the man who
Australian cricketers Mark Waugh and Shane Warne said paid them
to supply weather and team- related information in 1995.


Recently, police claimed they taped conversations between West
Indian cricketer Marlon Samuels and an alleged bookmaker, Mukesh
Kochar, during a one-day series in India.


Samuels accepted knowing Kochar as a friend and denied any
wrongdoing. Kochar said he was not a bookmaker and stressed
Samuels was like a son to him.


The ICC is still probing the case.

