

Bulgaria's Albena Denkova and Maxim Staviski edged Marie-France
Dubreuil and Patrice Lauzon of Canada to retain the world ice
dancing title Friday -- with both couples considering retirement.


The result was a carbon copy of last year's post-Olympic world
championship podium as the US duo of Tanith Belbin and Benjamin
Agosto, who won the silver medal at the Turin Games, finished
third.


The Bulgarian couple, going out with a slim 0.02-point lead over
the Canadians, skated without error to the music of "Seven Deadly
Sins" in the free dance and earned 102.09 points, the best in a
field of 24 couples, to finish with an overall 201.61 points.


Dubreuil and Lauzon also produced a clean free programme to "At
Last" by Etta James for 100.96 points, which left them 1.15
points behind overall, on 200.46 points.


Belbin and Agosto made mistakes in an opening twizzle and again
on the lift at the end, finishing on 195.43.


European champions Isabelle Delobel and Olivier Schoenfelder of
France, were fourth with 195.19 points.


"We fought for it. We worked very hard. We are very happy we can
perform like that. I feel great," said Denkova, 32, who has been
hinting at her retirement, especially after she was elected the
head of the Bulgarian skating federation last October.


"We are thinking... that this would be our last season. I don't
know, we can't say 100 percent 'yes'," she said. "We're tired
because there's too much stress fighting for the podium. We are
not always young and we want a little bit of private life."


Russian-born Staviski, 29, was more definitive as he said: "I
want to thank everybody. It is a wonderful end for us with (a)
second world title."


Denkova and Staviski, who finished fifth in Turin, won Bulgaria's
first world ice dancing title in 2006.


The couple, who took the bronze medal in 2003 and the silver in
2004, have also won two Grand Prix events, Skate America and the
Trophee Eric Bompard in Paris, as well as the Grand Prix final,
this season.


Lauzon said he and Dubreuil could decide to stop competing in
May, when they visit Lyon, France, where they have a project to
start up an ice dancing school.


"We had plans to go all the way to the Olympics but each year we
have evaluated the situation to see if we still want to continue
and if we are fit to continue," the 31-year-old from Montreal
told AFP. "We have until July to decide if we will continue."


Dubreuil, 32, told a news conference: "We skated a very good free
dance. Of course, after the rhumba (compulsary dance) and
throughout the season, we had the gold medal in mind."


"We're pleased with the way we skated all season," said Dubreuil.

