

A distraught Afghan father said Friday his 12-year-old son was
shot in the head by foreign troops in the latest in a series of
civilian deaths involving international forces.


The Afghan interior ministry confirmed the killing late Thursday,
saying NATO troops opened fire on a minivan "which apparently
tried to overtake the troops or maybe the car was too close to
the troops."


NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) said there
was an incident late Thursday but it could not comment until a
military police investigation was completed.


The force, nervous of suicide attacks, has used the media and
notices attached to their vehicles to warn other vehicles to keep
their distance after dozens of civilians have been killed in
similar incidents.


The boy's father, named only Zemarai, denied trying to overtake
the convoy while driving seven of his relatives home after
visiting family. He also said he had been several hundreds metres
(yards) away and was not aware of warning shots.


"All of a sudden they opened fire at our vehicle," he said from
his home, filled with wailing mourners ahead of the burial of
young Zaryalai.


"The first three bullets hit my car and the fourth one hit my
12-year old son on the side of his head," the father said, his
voice breaking with emotion.


The boy made no sound and Zemarai only realised the child was
dead when he stopped the car.


The attack was on the eastern route out of the city, a road which
sees most of the suicide attacks in Kabul because it is
frequently used by foreign troops.


In one of the worst incidents involving civilians and foreign
forces, eight people were killed when US troops opened fire after
a suicide bombing near the eastern city of Jalalabad March 4.


The coalition said the civilians were killed in the attack and
return fire by its troops, but witnesses said they were all
killed by the foreign forces. The results of an investigation
have yet to be announced.


ISAF said in a statement late Thursday meanwhile that one of its
convoys had hit and killed a child in the eastern province of
Khost. The child had darted out from the side of the road, it
said.

