

Canada coach Andy Pick said he was in "awe" of the commitment
shown by his mainly amateur side after they bowed out of the
World Cup with a 114-run defeat by New Zealand.


Although they lost all three of their matches, the North
Americans never scored less than 199 and twice improved their
record World Cup total, saving their best for last with 249
against New Zealand.


For a team featuring a salesman, an investment banker, a
telephone technician and a forklift truck-driver and just one
current first-class player in opening batsman Geoff Barnett,
these were notable achievements.


Former Nottinghamshire pace bowler Pick, who has been on a one-
year sabbatical from his post as coach of the England Under-19
team, praised the huge sacrifices made the Canada players had
made just to be at the World Cup.


"I'm absolutely amazed. I'm in awe of the commitment of the
Canadian players. This winter we've been to Pretoria for two-
and-a-half-weeks, we've been to Kenya for a month and we've been
here for a month.


"For players to take that sort of time off work, some without
pay, some guys lose jobs or some guys give up their family
holidays for the next two years or whatever it might be, for very
little recompense if any.


"They deserve days like today," Pick added after Thursday's
match.


"They deserve to come and do well and take milestone away from
the World Cup, to improve and to have people say 'they didn't win
any games but they are better now than they were at the last
World Cup and Canadian cricket is obviously moving forward'.


"They deserve all the credit for that because some of these guys
go to work at 5am in the morning, finish at 5pm, drive for an
hour-and-half, do three hours practice, go home, have something
to eat, go to bed and do the same next day. And that's when it's
minus 30.


"For the guys based in Canada it is a phenomenal effort."


During their first World Cup appearance, in 1979, Canada were
bowled out for 45 against England. Pick said their recent
performances were a measure of how far the team had come. "We
expect to get 200 now, even against the Test playing teams.


"That's no longer a good day, that's the standard we should
achieve," said Pick of a Canada side that went down to a more
than respectable 51-run defeat against England in this World Cup.


Looking ahead, Pick said Canada could hold its own with the best
of the associate or junior nations - the team play Ireland in the
final of the four-day International Cricket Council (ICC)
Intercontinental Cup tournament in May.


"I see Canadian cricket competing with the other associates who
have professional frameworks in place and structures that develop
youth talent. At the moment, Canada hasn't got that simply
because of a lack of money. If and when we get some money into
Canadian cricket, there's potential for growth there that there
isn't in other countries."


And he said talk of 'minnow' nations devaluing the World Cup was
wide of the mark.


"If the ICC are looking to expand the top group of teams, as
they've done in the past with Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, it's
essential we play in these competitions. That's what they want to
do and all credit to them."

