

Government troops clashed with the bodyguards of defeated
presidential candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba for a second day Friday
in the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo.


Light weapons fire and loud explosions from shells or mortars
were heard early Friday in the northern district of Gombe, where
Bemba's residence is located, AFP correspondents said.


Bemba, a former vice president, was sheltered in the South
African embassy.


Members of the presidential guard were deployed in force in the
streets since dawn, with several armoured cars and tanks.


An oil truck was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in flames
near Ndolo air base in Gombe, diplomatic sources said. A thick
plume of smoke was visible from more than 10 kilometres (six
miles) away.


At least two civilians were killed and a dozen wounded in clashes
Thursday in Kinshasa, which had been calm since fighting after
historic elections last year left about 30 people dead.


The fighting broke out mid-morning Thursday near Bemba's home,
prompting residents to flee their homes and schools and for
ministries to close.


Late Thursday, Bemba sought refuge at the South African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa since the government of
President Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to
scale down the military force protecting Bemba, a formal rebel
leader.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated
as president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.

