

Iranian agents are paying local Iraqis around the southern city
of Basra as much as 500 dollars a month to carry out attacks on
coalition forces, a senior British Army officer said Friday.


In an interview with BBC radio from Iraq, Lieutenant Colonel
Justin Maciejewski said contact with locals suggested that the
"vast majority" of violence against British troops stationed in
the city came from outside Iraq.


"We haven't found any 'smoking gun' but certainly all the
circumstantial evidence points to Iranian involvement in the
bombings here in Basra, which is disrupting the city to a great
extent," he added.


Maciejewski, who is the commanding officer at the British base at
Basra Palace, went on: "Local sheikhs and tribal leaders here in
Basra -- who are desperate to prevent this violence escalating --
are telling us that Iranian agents are paying up to 500 dollars a
month for young Basrawi men to attack us.


"I have no direct proof that I can put my hand on, but I have no
reason to disbelieve what we have been told by locals here, who
are desperate for this interference in their internal affairs to
stop.


"They want to rebuild their city and make it a thriving city here
in southern Iraq."


The officer's comments follow those by Prime Minister Tony Blair,
who has on a number of occassions accused Tehran of supplying
Iraqis opposed to the coalition presence with weapons, via Iraq's
porous eastern border with Iran.


"We have a lot of very modern and quite sophisticated weaponry
being used against us -- weaponry that could only really have
been procured from a state," said Maciejewski.


"These are not old munitions from the Iran-Iraq war. They are
much more modern, some of them produced in 2006 and the locals
are telling us that these are coming in from Iran."


Blair announced in February that the 7,200-strong British
contingent in and around Basra would be cut by 1,600 in the
coming months and drop to about 5,000 by the end of the year as
Iraqi security services assume more control.


Forces are expected to remain at Basra Palace until late summer
with the bulk of British troops remaining at Basra Air Station to
support the Iraqis.

