

Influential former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani vowed on
Friday that Iran would resist a new resolution over its
controversial nuclear programme ahead of a key vote in the UN
Security Council.


"They could be all poised to issue another resolution, but make
no mistake ... we will stand our ground," Rafsanjani said in a
prayer sermon carried live by state radio.


"You should step into this frightful field with more care," he
told world powers.


The Security Council is expected to vote on Saturday on a draft
resolution that would impose new sanctions on Iran for its
continued refusal to suspend uranium enrichment -- the process
that makes nuclear fuel but that in highly extended form can also
make atomic weapons.


The text prepared by the five veto-wielding permanent members --
Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus
Germany builds on sanctions already imposed on Iran's nuclear and
missile programmes in December.


Rafsanjani said the power of veto held by the five permanent
members was an "extremely inhumane discrimination and the
cruelest of rights".


Iran insists it has a right to uranium enrichment as a signatory
to the Non- Proliferation Treaty, dismissing US-led accusations
that its nuclear programme is cover for a weapons drive.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has obtained a visa to attend the
Security Council session in New York and has said he will present
"new proposals" to end the standoff.


But there was no immediate official word Friday on his travel
plans.


Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has the last word on
all key policy issues, vowed on Wednesday that Iran would not
give up its nuclear programme and warned world powers that the
Islamic republic would do everything in its power to defend
itself against any military action.


The draft resolution to be put to the vote on Saturday would give
Iran 60 days to comply or face "further appropriate measures,"
meaning economic sanctions but no military action, under Article
41 of the UN Charter.

