

Eritrea has agreed to bolster efforts by the United Nations to
breathe life into stalled peace talks aimed at ending the
devastating conflict in the western Sudanese region of Darfur, an
official statement said.


The deal was reached Thursday during talks between the UN envoy
to Darfur Jan Eliasson and Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki,
who has considerable influence among several insurgents groups in
Darfur.


"The two sides agreed to coordinate their activities and hold
joint consultations," the Eritrean information ministry said in a
statement posted on its website late Thursday.


Sudan analysts have said Eritrean involvement is essential to
resolving the deadly conflict that erupted in February 2003 when
rebels from minority Darfuri tribes took up arms to demand an
equal share of national resorces.


This prompted Khartoum and allied militia called Janjaweed to
carry out a heavy- handed crackdown, resulting in the death of
around 200,000 people and the displacement of around two million
others.


Eritrea has opposed the deployment of UN peacekeepers to Darfur,
arguing that the move would be tantamount to "neo-colonialism",
instead opting for dialogue to deal with the conflict.


"A political dialogue should take place in which all Sudanese
political groups, including community elders and other social
forces, need to participate," Issaias said, according to the
statement.


"The Darfur problem cannot be resolved through military threats
and economic sanctions... resorting to such steps would aggravate
the problem."


Last November Eritrea offered to mediate between Khartoum and
Darfur rebel groups that have refused to sign an African Union-
mediated peace deal but was cold-shouldered by the international
community.


The Justice and Equality Movement, a faction of the Sudan
Liberation Movement and the Sudan Federal Democratic Alliance,
last June formed a lose coalition called National Redemption
Front based in Asmara.


Eritrean stakes in Sudan politics sharply rose in October last
year after it helped mediate a peace deal between Khartoum and
rebels in the country's eastern belt.

