

China maintained its monopoly of the diving boards here Friday
with two more gold medals as mighty Russia regained its mantle as
the world's undisputed queen of synchronised swimming.


But the diving competition was plunged into controversy with
claims of bias by the judges against the Russian competitors.


An angry Irina Lashko finished fifth in the women's 1m
springboard while teammate Yuliya Pakhalina took the bronze and
they felt aggrieved.


"I'm disgusted. If they (the judges) can do that so openly in
front of the whole world, I think something needs to be done,"
said Lashko.


"My first three dives - more than half - they were judged
absolutely disgusting. It's embarrassing and a total insult in
front of the whole world. We've both been judged very badly. They
should be ashamed of themselves."


China's He Zi won the event with 316.65 points, upstaging
defending champion Blythe Hartley of Canada, who also won the
crown at the 2001 world championships in Japan.


She settled for silver with 311.20 points. Pakhalina was third on
304.6.


Qin Kai won the men's 3m springboard title, ending the reign of
Canadian superstar Alexandre Despatie to give China six out six
diving medals here so far with four more to be decided.


Qin scored 545.35 points to the Canadian's 518.65 with Dmitri
Sautin of Russia third with 517.10. China's world number one He
Chong finished sixth after a poor fourth dive.


While China is dominant in the diving, Russia has the undisputed
world's best synchronised swimmers.


Anastasia Ermakova and Anastasia Davydova's success in the duet
free final handed the country its fifth gold out of six so far.


Only legendary French starlet Virginie Dedieu has prevented a
clean sweep by winning a third consecutive world solo title on
Thursday.


The two Anastasia's produced another stunning routine to score
99.333 points and once again consign Spain (97.667) to second and
Japan (97.333) to third.


"Perfect like a fairytale," said Davydova of their routine.


"We wanted it to be a little more serious but it was still a
beautiful thing."


He, a newcomer from China's seemingly endless production line of
top-quality divers, won her first major title after bursting onto
the scene at the Asian Games in December when she won a silver in
the same event.


"It was a hard competition for me. There were three world
championship divers in this competition and all of our standards
are very close," said the 16-year-old.


"I started to feel pressure when I knew I was the only Chinese
diver in the final, I just tried my best to perform my standard."


Surprisingly, China's other competitor Li Ting failed to get past
the semi- finals.


Hartley, or "Muppet" as she is known in diving circles, had a
narrow lead after the opening three dives before He took the
initiative with a superb fourth dive that left her grinning.


He almost gave it away with her last dive, a one-and-a-half
somersault and one- and-a-half twist, as nerves took hold but it
was good enough to land her the title.


The main swimming events begin on Sunday with Australia's
defending champion Grant Hackett in action in the 400m freestyle.

