

Australian share prices are expected to test record levels next
week after recovering most of the losses suffered during the
recent turbulence in the global equity markets, dealers said
Friday.


At the same time, the tone is cautious given persistent concerns
about the outlook for the US economy and local interest rates,
with many expecting the Australian central bank to tighten policy
again soon.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 closed the week up 116.0 points or 1.99
percent at 5,952.3, less than 100 points short of the record
6,044.0 set in late February.


CMC Markets senior dealer Josh Whiting said resources giant BHP
Billiton appeared set to extend its upward run into next week and
the banks were being bolstered by Bank of Queensland's takeover
bid for Bendigo Bank.


Whiting said the banking sector was set to continue rising as the
Reserve Bank of Australia's April monetary policy meeting
approaches amid renewed expectations of an interest rate hike.


"Speculation of another interest rate rise has enlivened trading
amongst the big banks, with traders now firmly backing a local
rate hike next month," he said.


AMP Capital Investors chief economist Shane Oliver said investors
could still be in for a bumpy rise, despite the recent upswing.


"There is still a risk of turbulence ahead in the short term," he
said.


"Uncertainty over US and global growth may linger for a while
yet, the crisis in the US mortgage market has further to run,
investor sentiment has yet to reach bearish extremes that
normally signal market bottoms, and the last three significant
corrections in global/Australian shares all lasted about a month
or so and were somewhat deeper than the recent correction has
been.


"Nevertheless, while the very short-term outlook may be a little
uncertain, our view remains that the four-year old bull market in
shares is alive and well.


"Valuations both globally and domestically are reasonable, profit
growth is slowing but is still likely to be solid, the current
slowdown in global growth will help to sustain the low
inflation/low interest rate economic expansion and there is lots
of cash out there looking for a home.


"As such, global and Australian share markets are likely to
provide solid gains for the rest of the year, notwithstanding
occasional set backs."


Oliver said a range of second-tier economic data would be relesed
next week, including new home sales, job vacancies and credit.

