

Three men faced police questioning Friday after being arrested on
suspicion of helping suicide bombers who killed 52 commuters on
London public transportation in July 2005.


The three detained Thursday -- two while about to board a flight
to Pakistan -- were being held at a central London police station
on suspicion of the "commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism" under the Terrorism Act 2000, police said.


"We will be speaking to them," a spokeswoman for London's
Metropolitan Police told AFP, declining to say exactly when.


These were the first significant arrests since the July 7, 2005
attacks that killed 56 people, including the four bombers, on
three London Underground trains and a bus.


Police sources were quoted by the Guardian newspaper as saying
that the men were suspected of having knowledge of the plot and
of helping to finance and house the bombers.


They were not suspected of actually making the bombs nor of
preparing additional attacks. "We are not talking about a fifth,
sixth or seventh bomber," a security source was quoted as saying
by The Guardian.


Police quoted by The Times described them as "backroom boys" who
could have provided support for the plot. They were identified as
Asian.


Two of the men, aged 23 and 30, were arrested at Manchester
Airport, northwest England, as they were about to board a flight
to Pakistan, while the third man, 26, was arrested at a house in
Leeds, northern England.


Of the four suicide bombers who carried out the 2005 attacks,
three were from the Beeston area of Leeds.


Under British anti-terror laws, the three men can be detained for
up to 28 days, subject to regular court approval, before police
must either charge or release them. Police have 48 hours before
they must apply for an extension.


Searches were also being carried out at five houses in Beeston,
including one on the street where one of the bombers lived with
his parents, as well as at a flat in east London. A search at a
separate business premises in east London was concluded earlier.


Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist extremist suicide
bombers -- three of them Britons of Pakistani origin and one a
naturalised Jamaican -- set off rucksack bombs on three London
Underground trains and a double-decker bus.


The attack nearly two years ago, at the height of rush hour, also
injured more than 700 people in what was the worst-ever terrorist
atrocity on British soil.


Nobody has yet been charged in relation to the bombings.


The bombings were followed exactly two weeks later by an apparent
copycat attack which failed. Six men are currently on trial for
that alleged attack.


The police statement said that detectives had continued the
investigation both at home and abroad since the bombings, which
prompted soul-searching in Britain about the extent of Muslim
integration in the country.


Both the suspected ringleader of the bombings, Mohamed Sidique
Khan, and fellow bomber Shehzad Tanweer, said in videos recorded
before their deaths that British foreign policy, particularly in
Iraq and Afghanistan, was a motivation for their actions.


A May 11, 2006, report by the British parliament's Intelligence
and Security Committee said that Khan and Tanweer were "likely"
to have had contact with Al- Qaeda members during visits to
Pakistan.


The Metropolitan Police said Thursday they had always been keen
to determine whether anyone else helped bombers Khan, Tanweer,
Hasib Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay.


The government's official narrative of the attacks released last
year identified Beeston, and the social life around its mosques,
youth clubs, gyms and Islamic bookshops, as a focal point for
Khan, Tanweer and Hussain.

