

The 2007 World Cup will continue despite the murder of Pakistan
coach Bob Woolmer, tournament organisers said.


Woolmer was strangled to death a day after his team were knocked
out of the cricket's showpiece event, Jamaican police said.


"What we must all do now is to show how resolute the game is by
proving ourselves strong enough to move on from what has
happened," International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive
Malcolm Speed said in a statement Thursday.


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport.


"By doing that we will demonstrate that cricket cannot be put off
by a cowardly criminal act," he said.


"If the players and officials of all the competing teams can do
that, then it would be a fitting tribute to Bob Woolmer and the
contribution he has made to our sport as a fine player and an
outstanding coach at all levels."


Speed added that the entire cricket world was shocked by the
death on Sunday of Woolmer, a former England international and
South African coach.


"When we first learnt of Bob's death a wave of sadness washed
over the whole of the cricket community," said Speed.


"That sadness has now been replaced with a profound sense of
shock at the news that his death is being treated as murder, and
everyone connected with this event will assist the police in any
way possible to ensure the truth emerges."


World Cup managing director Chris Dehring added: "We have
reviewed security arrangements in conjunction with the ICC and
local agencies and consulted with all the teams and they have
told us they are comfortable with those arrangements.


"On that basis, it is up to the Jamaica Constabulary Force to get
on with its job while our focus now is on some great cricket to
come."


Jamaican police spokesman Karl Angell confirmed on Thursday that
Woolmer, 58, had been murdered.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


Australian cricket officials also expressed shock over the police
announcement, but backed plans to continue playing the World Cup
in the Caribbean.


"With the news from the Jamaican police today, our thoughts at
this time are very much with the Woolmer family," a spokesman for
Cricket Australia said.


"This is naturally a distressing time for everyone involved in
cricket. We must now allow the relevant authorities appropriate
time and space to deal with their investigation into the
circumstances surrounding Bob Woolmer's death."


Asked if Cricket Australia supported the decision to not abandon
the tournament, he replied: "Absolutely."


Among many rumours being put forward for the killing was that
Woolmer was about to reveal all about match-fixing.


But asked if the Pakistan team had discussed the possibility that
Woolmer's death might be linked to match-fixing, team spokesman
Pervez Mir said: "Absolutely not. The players as far as I know
have not spoken about any match- fixing or any match-fixing
incident because there is no question of that.


"I think they are more concerned about what has happened to Bob,"
he told Sky News.


Woolmer had close experience of the controversy when he was the
South Africa coach at the time that former captain Hansie Cronje
was bought off by bookmakers in 1996.


Woolmer was never alleged to have been involved.

