

Israel manager Dror Kashtan has warned England's stars to brace
themselves for a taste of his country's legendary battling
qualities when they meet in a crucial Euro 2008 qualifier here on
Saturday.


The veteran coach readily acknowledges that England should expect
to beat an Israeli side with only a handful of players playing in
Europe's top leagues.


But he insisted that his side are capable of pulling off an upset
that would deal a huge blow to England's chances of reaching next
year's finals in Austria and Switzerland, and put his opposite
number Steve McClaren's job on the line.


"Obviously it will be difficult," Kashtan said. "England are
ranked 6th in the world, they are clearly the favourites but on a
given day everything is possible.


"It is going to be a very important match for the Israeli
players. They will be very passionate and give everything to win.


"When the time is right, this nation knows how to fight. It is a
great challenge for us but we hope to be able to meet it.


"One of the nice things about football is that the so-called
lesser teams can cause upsets -- English football is very famous
for that."


Kashtan also expects the passion of the Israeli crowd to transmit
itself to players on both sides.


"Clearly there is going to be a special atmosphere tomorrow
night," he said. "The fans can be like a 12th man for us. This
nation is very famous for one thing -- on occasions such as this
everyone unites behind the team."


Yossi Benayoun, the West Ham playmaker who is one of six players
in Kashtan's squad who earn their living outside Israel, knows
how much pressure the England players and manager are under as a
result of their poor recent results.


McClaren's men have not won a match in six months and a goalless
draw at home to Macedonia followed by defeat in Croatia in
October has left them third in group E, behind the Croatians and
Russia and ahead of Israel only on goal difference.


But Benayoun insisted that England's performances had not been as
bad as portrayed.


"I think the only really bad result was against Macedonia at
home. Croatia is one of the most difficult places to play and I
don't think it was a big surprise they lost there.


"I don't think that will affect them because they have such big
players they know how to come to an important game and give their
best."


Benayoun added: "Being at West Ham I can see all the pressure
they are under. Hopefully it will affect them and we can play
better and take all the points, but we will have to wait and
see."


The West Ham star also had words of encouragement for the
beleaguered McClaren.


"The problem in England and also sometimes in Israel is that
people don't have any patience. You have to give a new manager
time. He (McClaren) proved himself as manager of Middlesbrough
when he took them to the UEFA Cup final last season. Hopefully he
will start to win all his games -- after tomorrow."

