

Fierce battles between tribesmen and foreign Al-Qaeda militants
in northwest Pakistan have left up to 160 people dead, including
130 Uzbeks and Chechens, a provincial governor said Friday.


Between 25 and 30 tribesmen also died in the clashes that erupted
Monday in the South Waziristan tribal zone bordering Afghanistan,
Ali Muhammad Jan Aurakzai, the governor of North West Frontier
Province, told reporters.


Another 62 foreign fighters were arrested during the clashes,
including Chechens, Uzbeks and other foreigners, Aurakzai said.


Officials previously said 120 people had been killed in the
clashes.


"Local Waziristan people have risen against the foreigners in the
region on their own. They have realised that their presence was
causing trouble for the local population," Aurakzai said.


Aurakzai, a former army general, said there were an estimated 500
foreigners in the area, including Uzbeks, Chechens and Arabs,
according to tribesmen. Other recent estimates have been twice as
high or more.


The government had offered the foreigners, some of whom had
married while in the Pakistani tribal areas, the chance to
surrender and be repatriated in 2004 and 2005 "but they did not
listen to our offer," Aurakzai said.


"These foreigners were responsible for the increase in crimes and
created hurdles in development works. They were asked by the
tribal people to leave the area but they started fighting."


The clashes started Monday after an ex-Taliban commander the
government says has defected to its side ordered followers of
Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev, a former confidant of Osama bin
Laden, to disarm.


Pakistani officials have said the battles show the success of
Islamabad's policy of encouraging conservative tribesmen in its
border areas to drive out the militants themselves, instead of
using the army.


The United States and other Western allies have repeatedly urged
Pakistan to crack down on Islamic extremists in the mountainous
tribal belt, saying that Al- Qaeda and the Taliban were
regrouping and building training camps there.


Aurakzai, a former army general, in September engineered a peace
deal with militants in North Waziristan, evoking suspicions from
Kabul and the commanders of international forces battling the
Taliban in Afghanistan.


He caused further controversy earlier in February when he warned
the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan was turning into a
"liberation war" and renewed a call for Kabul to open dialogue
with the insurgents.

