

Pakistan's cricket coach Bob Woolmer was strangled in his hotel
room and probably knew his killer, Jamaican police said Friday,
in a crime that has stunned the sport's World Cup showpiece and
sent shockwaves around the game.


The International Cricket Council insisted the World Cup would go
on after police confirmed Woolmer was murdered, amid swirling
rumours of possible links to match-fixing gangs that have
flourished in the game's dark underbelly.


Woolmer, 58, was found unconscious in his hotel room Sunday and
declared dead in hospital, a day after Pakistan's shock defeat to
minnows Ireland saw the 1992 World Cup winners crashing out of
this year's competition.


"It seems difficult to believe at this stage it was a complete
stranger," Jamaica's deputy police commissioner Mark Shields told
BBC radio in London.


"It is imperative that we keep an open mind but I have to say at
this stage it looks as if it may be somebody somehow linked to
him, because clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it
may be that he knew who that person was."


He said that police were probing video recordings from the
hotel's closed circuit television cameras but had not yet found
anything suspicious.


Shields also "unequivocally" dismissed rumours that arrests had
been made. "That's nonsense, as far as I'm concerned," he said.


Pakistan's players gave statements to police and were
fingerprinted before leaving for Montego Bay, where they were to
stay for two days before returning home.


Jamaican police spokesman Karl Angell told a press conference
Thursday that Woolmer had been the victim of foul play.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


"In these circumstances, the matter of Mr. Robert Woolmer's death
is now being treated by the Jamaica police as a case of murder."


Shields suggested more than one person may have been involved and
said there were no signs of forced entry to Woolmer's room.


"Bob was a large man and therefore it would have taken some
significant force to subdue him and cause strangulation, but we
do not know at this stage how many people were in the room," he
said.


ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed said the game of cricket
"cannot be put off by a cowardly criminal act."


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport," he said
in a statement.


Earlier, rumours had swirled of possible poisoning and even
killing at the hands of criminals keen to avoid exposure in
claims of match-fixing which may have arisen in a book Woolmer
was planning to write.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir dismissed such suggestions as "totally
baseless and premature."


Woolmer, who played Tests for England, was coach of South Africa
when its former captain Hansie Cronje was bought off by
bookmakers in 1996.


Asked if the team had discussed such a possibility, Mir said:
"Absolutely not. The players, as far as I know, have not spoken
about any match-fixing or any match-fixing incident because there
is no question of that."


In cricket-obsessed Pakistan, former fast bowler Sarfraz Nawaz
said Woolmer had fallen victim to a "gambling mafia."


"Nothing was stolen from Woolmer's (room) except for his diary
and papers," he told AFP.


"I am not sure about his laptop. But the diary and the papers
could only be of interest to bookie mafia."


Woolmer became coach of Pakistan in 2004 and had talked of the
stresses of managing one of the most volatile teams in world
cricket.


Last year the team forfeited a Test against England after a ball-
tampering row, the first time ever a game had ended such a way,
and preparations for the World Cup were badly hit when his two
best fast bowlers failed drugs tests.

