

Tiny frocks in free-flowing shapes with pretty bows and sleeves
dominated the runways at the ninth India Fashion Week Friday.


"The look is pretty with an emphasis on feminine lines," said
fashion critic Satya Saran, editor of DNA newspaper's Me
magazine.


In all, 87 designers are unveiling their autumn-winter collection
trends for the critics and some 180 domestic and international
buyers at the five-day fashion festival that ends Sunday.


Last season's big trend, the empire line, made way for balloon
frocks and wrap dresses offset with tights in basic blacks and
fluorescents.


Designer Anamika Khanna, who has taken her collection to the
London Fashion Week several times, won plaudits with an
understated and wearable collection of earth-brown tunics paired
with breeches and narrow pants.


Double layers, tiny puff and cap sleeves and large collars added
a touch of femininity.


The browns were offset with bursts of forest greens peeping from
the linings of jackets and from under the collars.


"Hers was a perfect example of balance between coolness and use
of traditional Indian fabrics," said Tiziana Cardini, director of
Italian department store chain La Rinascente.


Tarun Tahiliani, dubbed India's Valentino for his beautiful
evening gowns, sent his models in Issey Miyake-style pleated
saris in subdued two-tone peaches and beiges.


He also teamed single-shouldered and wrap dresses with Indian-
style tights, gathered in circles at the ankle.


"Tarun's clothes were both sexy and glamorous. It's remarkable
how he understands the vocabulary of Western fashion," said
Cartini.


Critics said despite its new fashion industry, India's strength
was in its rich crafts and colours and the key to winning global
acclaim was in combining the traditional with the modern.


"If we are too Indian, we are living in a pond. If we are too
Western, we will get lost. The challenge is to balance the India
that was and the India that is becoming now," said leading
fashion designer J.J Valaya, whose line is inspired by the Taj
Mahal.


"India has amazing materials and crafts. It is a goldmine. And
luckily, Indian designers are staying true to their culture,"
Cardini said. "In these days of globalisation, it is important to
find differences."


"The colours and the crafts here are beautiful," said Shizue
Hamano, fashion editor of the Japanese edition of Vogue, which is
scouting for Indian trendsetters for its India special.


Various estimates of India's young fashion business put its size
between 50 and 250 million dollars -- a small fraction of the
country's 12-billion-dollar domestic textile industry.


A study released last month by industry body ASSOCHAM estimated
that the fashion sector could grow tenfold in the next five
years.


"Indians have begun to understand luxury. They are now willing to
spend on luxury," said Valaya.

