

The Inter-Parliamentary Union is to send a three-member fact-
finding team to the Philippines in April to investigate a wave of
political murders, local media reported Friday.


The Geneva-based IPU, which serves as a forum to push for
democracy and peace, made the decision because of increasing
calls from the international community to end political killings
in the Philippines, ABS-CBN said on its web site.


ABS-CBN said the team would comprise senator Rosario Green of
Mexico, senator Sharon Castairs of Canada and IPU committee
secretary Ingerborg Schwars.


They are expected to meet with individuals and groups interviewed
by United Nations special rapporteur Philip Alston last month.


Alston had accused the military of being behind most of the
killings and said it was "in almost total denial" over the
deaths.


Human rights group Karapatan has documented more than 840
extrajudicial killings since 2001.


On Wednesday the United States sought tougher action by the
Philippines to end the killings.


President Gloria Arroyo has vowed to take steps to end the
murders of the journalists, church leaders, political figures,
human rights activists and trade union leaders.


"We are encouraged by the steps that the Philippine government
has taken to date, but we will continue to make clear that more
progress is essential and that we stand ready to be of additional
assistance to the Philippine authorities," said deputy US
assistant secretary of state Eric John.


He spoke at a hearing of a US Senate panel on East Asia and
Pacific that investigated the circumstances under which the
killings occurred and examined strategies to help end the
violence.


Senator Barbara Boxer, who chaired the hearing, said "it remains
to be seen" if the Philippine government's assurances to solve
the killings "will be followed by real and tangible actions."


Washington has underlined its concerns to the Arroyo government
over the killings and "strongly urged Philippine officials to
take additional steps," such as those recommended by Manila's own
commission of inquiry on the violence, John said.


The panel, headed by retired Supreme Court justice Jose Melo,
found there was circumstantial evidence linking some sections of
the military to the deaths.


The military has denied any guilt, saying many of the murders
were carried out by communist insurgents as part of an internal
purge.


"It is disturbing to note that even though hundreds have been
killed so far, to date there has not been a single conviction,"
T. Kumar, rights group Amnesty International's Asia-Pacific
advocacy director, told the US hearing.


He said that a military general implicated in the killings in the
Melo report was lauded by Arroyo as "an asset to the
counterinsurgency" following his retirement last September and
had been encouraged to run for a seat in the Philippine Congress.

