

The chief US envoy to North Korean nuclear disarmament talks
insisted Friday that the Stalinist regime remained committed to
ending its atomic programme, despite a dramatic breakdown in
negotiations.


North Korea walked out of the six-nation talks on Thursday after
four days of deadlock because 25 million dollars in frozen funds
had not been returned, despite pledges from the other parties
that it would soon get the money.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations atomic
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
insisted the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill told reporters before
flying back to Washington.


Immediately following the breakdown in talks, Hill said the
process remained "on track", while the US State Department also
officially remained upbeat.


Envoys from China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and
Russia came together on Monday for their first meeting since a
February 13 accord that set a timetable for the North to begin
disarming.


Under the deal, Pyongyang had 60 days to close Yongbyon and allow
inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, who were
kicked out in 2002, back into the country.


In return, North Korea would immediately receive 50,000 tonnes of
heavy fuel for energy use.


North Korea would eventually receive one million tonnes of fuel
oil or equivalent energy aid if it completely dismantled all its
nuclear programmes.


As part of the agreement, the United States said Monday it would
allow for the release of 25 million dollars of North Korean money
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 due to accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting.


The North had long insisted it would not begin disarming until it
got the money back, and the US announcement raised expectations
that the envoys would this week be able to discuss how to further
implement the accord.


But the money, meant to be transferred into a North Korean
account at the Bank of China in Beijing, was never delivered.


While officials talked of "technical problems" for the delay, the
Bank of China said late Thursday it had still not been asked to
accept the transfer of the money.


The US State Department said the US Treasury's point man on the
issue, Daniel Glaser, would travel to Beijing "relatively soon"
in an effort to resolve the issue.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said Friday that he
expected the issue to finally be resolved by next week, but his
nation's chief envoy to the talks was not so sure.


"Maybe it could take two or three weeks. I don't know," Chun
Yung-Woo said in Beijing before heading home.


The six-nation talks began in 2003 with the intention of ending
North Korea's nuclear weapons ambitions, but they have been
plagued by disputes that eventually led Pyongyang to conduct its
first atomic test in October last year.

