

Former Japanese prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said Friday that
Japan should stand by its apology to war-time sex slaves, but he
denied any personal knowledge of the so-called "comfort women."


"The comfort women issue was something of a tragedy. I find it
quite deplorable. The apology should be upheld," he said,
referring to a 1993 apology that the Japanese government issued
to former sex slaves.


But Nakasone, who was an officer in the Imperial Japanese Navy
during World War II, brushed aside suggestions that an essay he
wrote in 1978 suggested that he had helped to set up the war-time
brothels.


He said he was asked to establish only "resting and entertainment
facilities" for troops.


"I never had personal knowledge" of any brothels, he told
reporters at the Foreign Correspondents Club of Japan.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, known for his conservative views on
history, caused outrage earlier this month when he said there was
no evidence that Asian women were forced into sexual slavery "in
the strict sense of coercion."


He later elaborated, saying he was talking about physical
coercion, such as kidnappings of women by Japanese soldiers to
put them into brothels.


Abe has said repeatedly that he stands "sincerely" by the 1993
apology by Japan but his remarks provoked a furore in Asian
countries that were invaded by the Japanese.


Nakasone, who was premier from 1982 to 1987 and was known for his
close ties with then US president Ronald Reagan, said that Japan
should be ready to apologise again for other war-time atrocities
if necessary.


"The Japanese government, the Japanese people have issued
apologies repeatedly. If there is an opportunity to apologise
again, the Japanese government should do it, but I don't think
there is any opportunity to do so at present," he said.

