

Conspiracy theories abounded in cricket-obsessed Pakistan Friday
after police said coach Bob Woolmer was strangled following his
team's shock exit from the World Cup.


Leading them was former Pakistan fast bowler Sarfraz Nawaz, who
alleged that Woolmer's death in Jamaica was linked to powerful
underworld betting and match- fixing gangs.


"I have been saying that he was a target of gambling mafia. I was
very concerned the way Pakistani team lost to West Indies,"
Nawaz, who was known as the pioneer of reverse swing in his 1970s
and 1980s heyday, told AFP.


"The gambling mafia has invaded the game."


He added: "Nothing was stolen from Woolmer's (hotel room) except
for his diary and papers. I am not sure about his laptop. But the
diary and the papers could only be of interest to bookie mafia."


Jamaican police said Friday they think it likely that Woolmer was
strangled by someone he knew because he clearly let someone into
his hotel room. They have stressed they do not suspect anyone in
particular yet of the crime.


Pakistani fans pointed fingers at various groups, although they
all agreed it was impossible to believe that any members of the
team were involved.


"It has to be by the bookie mafia," said Sultan Qureshi, who
works at the US consulate in the eastern city of Lahore.


"I believe that the match against West Indies was fixed, Pakistan
should have won the match," he added. "But I firmly believe that
no Pakistani players could be involved in the murder.


The West Indies beat Pakistan by 54 runs on March 13, in a match
whose result was on the face of it less surprising than
Pakistan's humiliating defeat by Ireland on Saturday, the day
before Woolmer's death.


Pakistani players have been caught up in match-fixing rows
before.


Former Pakistan captain Salim Malik and paceman Ataur Rehman were
banned for life after a judicial inquiry conducted by a Pakistani
judge.


Six others including recently retired captain Inzamam-ul-Haq,
acting head coach Mushtaq Ahmed, Wasim Akram, Waqar Younis, Saeed
Anwar and Akram Raza were fined.


Raza Ali, a former police inspector from Islamabad, said there
were "three possibilities: either Woolmer was killed by the
bookie mafia, by a thug or a disgruntled Pakistan fan."


"No players could be involved or commit such a crime. Pakistan
should send a team of police officers to assist the West Indian
police and coordinate in the investigation," Ali added.


"It is a very serious matter for the nation and cannot be taken
lightly."


Malik Naveed, an avid cricket fan who runs an electricity shop in
Islamabad blamed Jamaican police for not providing enough
security and said hotel staff had to be questioned.


"This shows the slackness of the West Indian police that they
cannot protect Pakistani coach," he said.


"After all, he was murdered when he was in the security of his
hotel room. It was not that someone shot him in the street. The
local staff of the hotel could be involved in it. They should be
interrogated thoroughly."


Ayesha Rasool, a 24-year-old fan in Islamabad, said she was
keeping an open mind -- but added that the scandal was hard to
bear on top of Pakistan's World Cup failure and at a time when
the country is reeling from a political crisis over the sacking
of its top judge.


"It is so depressing. I pray that God ends this relentless trial
of the nation with one piece of bad news after another," she
said.

