

Afghan-led forces killed 69 Taliban in a major operation against
rebel strongholds in southern Afghanistan, while seven police
also died, the defence ministry said Friday.


Thursday's push through part of the southern province of Helmand
was the first "where foreign forces have not participated,"
defence ministry spokesman Mohammad Zahir Azimi said.


NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) said it
provided "flank protection, close air support and medical
support."


Azimi said the operation cleared three villages near the town of
Gereshk. The fighting was over Thursday and troops were Friday
involved in a "clean-up" which included assessing damage and
looking for weapons.


"Sixty-nine enemy elements were killed, 49 bodies of the enemy
were left at the battleground. Seventeen enemy elements were
arrested, including three wounded," Azimi told reporters in
Kabul.


"Seven police were martyred," and 19 men from the police force,
army and the intelligence service were wounded, he added.


Azimi said the operation showed the increasing capacity of the
Afghan security forces, which were in tatters by the time the
extremist Taliban was driven from power in late 2001 in an US-led
offensive.


"We began last year with 16,000 Afghan troops. This year we have
46,000 Afghan soldiers," he said.


"We are better equipped, better trained and are in a much better
coordination and understanding with international community and
foreign troops about the common enemy," he said.


The country, with a population of around 26 million, is trying to
build an army of 70,000 but officials say it needs at least
200,000 soldiers.


The police force, now at about 60,000, is generally agreed to be
in a worse state than the army but is also being trained and
equipped by international donors who want Afghans to be
responsible for their own security.


The United States this year announced it planned to spend 8.6
billion dollars on building and equipping the security forces
over two years.


Germany, Italy and Jordan were also providing important training,
Azimi said.


Pressure was mounting on the "enemy" financing and equipping
centres across Afghan borders and the militants' logistical
supply routes were being cut off, he said.


ISAF said Thursday's offensive was part of Operation Achilles
launched March 6 and involving 5,500 Afghan and foreign forces in
the northern part of Helmand targeting Taliban, hundreds of
foreign jihadists in the area and opium traders.


Helmand has seen some of the fiercest attacks on militants this
year, including ISAF bombings on Taliban compounds and insurgents
suspected of being involved in the transport of anti-aircraft
weapons.


The province's small town of Musa Qala has been in Taliban
control since early February and the Western military
acknowledges that other remote areas are also in insurgent hands.

