

British-Russian oil company TNK-BP will participate in an auction
next week of a 9.44-percent stake in state-controlled Rosneft
previously owned by stricken giant Yukos, a TNK-BP spokesman said
Friday.


The announcement came as BP head John Browne and his designated
successor Tony Hayward were in Moscow for a meeting with
President Vladimir Putin.


BP owns 50 percent of TNK-BP, with the other half owned by
Russia's Alfa Group.


TNK-BP spokesman Peter Henshaw said his company had lodged a
deposit to participate in Tuesday's auction of the Rosneft stake,
part of a sell-off of assets of Yukos, whose former head Mikhail
Khodorkovsky is in a jail in on embezzlement charges.


"We're interested in the asset and we intend to participate in
the auction," Henshaw told AFP.


Henshaw said he was unaware of the agenda of Friday's meeting
between Putin, Browne and Hayward but said it was unconnnected to
TNK-BP's interest in the Rosneft stake.


BP last year spent one billion dollars on Rosneft shares in a
public flotation.


Friday's meeting "had been arranged previously, some time ago,
before the timing of the Yukos auction was known, so it's
independent," Henshaw said.


Earlier the two executives met Rosneft head Sergei Bogdanchikov,
said BP spokesman Vladimir Buyanov.


Russia's Vedomosti newspaper has said the meeting with Putin
could be about a possible acquisition by Gazprom of shares in
TNK-BP.


Gazprom has not publicly stated such an intention but recent
pressure by environmental regulators on TNK-BP has fuelled
speculation.


Gazprom acquired a controlling stake in the far east Russian
project Sakhalin-2, previously controlled by British-Dutch
company Shell, after warnings from environmental regulators.


Rosneft said at the start of this week that it had borrowed 22
billion dollars (16.5 billion euros), mainly to invest in Yukos
assets.


The group is expected to bid for its own shares.


The starting price for the Rosneft stake is 195.5 billion rubles
(5.6 billion euros, 7.5 billion dollars).


Potential bidders at next week's auction of Yukos assets had
until the end of Friday to register their interest.

