

Sri Lankan troops advanced into territory held by Tamil Tiger
rebels Friday, shifting the battle lines to the island's north
where the latest death toll on both sides hit 37, the military
said.


Heavily armed soldiers "neutralised" a threat from the Tiger
guerrillas on the de facto border with rebel-held territory in
the northwestern coastal district of Mannar, defence ministry
spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said.


"What we have done is to neutralise the threat to our positions,"
Samarasinghe said. "We have not captured territory."


Military sources said that four soldiers and 20 guerrillas were
killed in fresh fighting Friday morning while security forces
said they killed 11 more rebels in the same area on Thursday.


At least 19 soldiers were also wounded when the Tigers fired
mortars and resisted the military push, military sources said.


Another two Tigers were reported killed further north in the
Jaffna peninsula where sporadic fire fights raged Friday, the
military said.


The heavy fighting forced the closure of the de facto border
crossing point at Omanthai, local officials said.


Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) spokesman Rasiah
Ilanthiriyan said those killed on Thursday were not Tamil Tigers,
but he had no information about fighting on Friday morning.


"It is possible that they killed some civilians using Claymore
mines," Ilanthiriyan said.


But Ilanthiriyan confirmed the advance, saying the military had
captured a village in the rebel-held part of Mannar district.


"The Sri Lankan army has captured the Thampane village and is
holding 130 villagers hostage," he said by telephone from his
base in Kilinochchi, 330 kilometres (206 miles) north of here.


Samarasinghe denied that they were holding civilians and in turn
accused the Tigers of using villagers as a human shield to attack
government forces.


"They have camps near villages and fire at us from those
locations knowing that we will not fire back because of the
civilians in the area," the defence ministry spokesman said.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in a new wave of fighting
in Sri Lanka since December 2005. The violence comes despite a
truce in place since February 2002.


The LTTE is leading a 35-year-old campaign for an independent
homeland for Sri Lanka's 12.5 percent Tamil minority in this
majority Buddhist nation of 19.5 million people.


The latest violence came as troops carried out clearing
operations in the east of the island after simultaneous Tamil
Tiger attacks left at least 20 people dead and dozens more
wounded on Wednesday, officials said.


The Tigers said they launched the attacks to prevent the military
from starting a fresh offensive on the rebel-held Thoppigala
jungles in Batticaloa district.


Security forces were firing rockets towards the jungles, which
the guerrillas use as a springboard to launch hit-and-run attacks
in Batticaloa.


Official figures show that nearly 150,000 people were listed as
internally displaced in Batticaloa since the military captured a
key Tiger base there in January.


Following the fall of the former Tiger bastion of Vakarai in
January, the military has vowed to flush out the rebels from the
east of the island.


Since then, the military has also stepped up attacks against
rebel boats and claimed it sank three large supply ships that
were allegedly trying to smuggle weapons into the island nation.

