

Turkey's Islamist-rooted Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on
Tuesday named Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul as the ruling party
candidate for president, following harsh secularist objections to
his own reported ambitions.


The choice of the respected Gul is seen as a bid at compromise
with the army- backed secularist establishment, but may not stamp
out all objections since Gul also comes from an Islamist
background and his wife wears the Islamic headscarf.


Erdogan announced his decision only 10 days after more than
500,000 people staged a rally in Ankara in an unprecedented
secularist demonstration to discourage Erdogan from running for
president.


The 56-year-old Gul, who is also deputy prime minister, is
virtually certain to become president thanks to the 353 seat
majority that the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP)
holds in the 550-member parliament.


Parliament elects the president for a single, seven-year term.


Secularists hate the prospect of the headscraf, which they see as
a symbol of political Islam, ascending to the presidential
palace, whose first occupant Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founded
modern Turkey in 1923 on staunchly secularist principles.


Erdogan pledged that the new president would be committed to the
non-religious system.


"Parliament will elect a president who will be fully impartial,
just, committed to the contemporary ideals of Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk and the values of the Republic," Erdogan told the AKP
parliamentary group as he announced Gul's candidacy to applause
and ovations.


The AKP's objective is "to preserve Turkey's stability, to
strengthen democracy and solidify the gains of the Republic," he
said.


Erdogan never openly said he had presidential ambitions, but nor
did he deny that he intended to run.


"I have never been after posts and honours," he said in his
speech Tuesday. "I never had any other goal than to serve the
people... We still have a lot of work to do for our country."


Erdogan said after the Ankara demonstration, which some
participants said drew more than 1.5 million people, that it
would have no effect on his own decision. But many AKP members
were concerned that without their charismatic leader at the helm,
the party might lose support in general elections scheduled for
November.


The AKP has disowned its roots in a now-banned Islamist party,
commited itself to secularism and carried out a series of
democracy reforms to boost Turkey's bid to join the European
Union.


Yet, the secular establishment, including the powerful army,
remains sceptical of Erdogan's avowed rejection of his radical
Islamist past.


His government has made unsuccessful attempts to criminalise
adultery, restrict places that serve alcohol to special zones and
make access to universities easier for graduates of Muslim
preachers' schools, which are regarded as breeding grounds for
political Islam.


The AKP's opponents fear that by electing a religious-minded
president, the party will seize the state's last secular bastion
and have a free hand to advance a pro-Muslim agenda.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a hardline secularist,
often vetoed laws he deemed anti-secular and blocked the
appointment of officials he saw as Islamist government cronies.


The first round in the presidential election is scheduled for
Friday, the second for May 2, the third for May 9 and the fourth
for May 15.


The winner requires a two-thirds majority of 367 and Gul should
get this in the third or fourth round, when a simple majority of
276 suffices.


In contrast to Erdogan, Gul has stayed away from open
confrontation with the non-religious establishment, although he
too is a practicing Muslim opposed to the headscarf ban in
Turkish government offices and universities.


Gul and Erdogan belonged to the Welfare Party, led by Turkey's
first Islamist prime minister Necmettin Erbakan, whom the army,
which sees itself as the guardians of the secular system, forced
from power in 1997.

