

International aid agencies reported scenes of chaos in Somalia on
Tuesday as columns of people fled fierce fighting in the capital,
Mogadishu, swelling the ranks of the 321,000 displaced since
February,    A UN refugee agency staffer reported a "growing
scene of chaos" on a main road out of Mogadishu "filled with a
continuous flow of displaced people," agency spokeswoman Jennifer
Pagonis told journalists.


The Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF- Doctors without borders)
agency said in a statement that "columns of people" were heading
for areas where health conditions are deteriorating due to lack
of sanitation and water.


More than 41,000 people from Mogadishu have sought refugee about
30 kilometres (18 miles) away in Afgooye where relief workers are
struggling to provide help.


"Hungry and thirsty crowds were becoming increasingly difficult
to control, making aid distribution very difficult," Pagonis told
journalists.


Hundreds of cases of acute diarrhoea were being reported in areas
where displaced people have sought refuge -- Afgooye, Lower
Shabelle, Hiiraan and Bay -- including many cases of cholera.


Hugues Robert, head of MSF's emergency desk in Geneva said: "If
the present situation in Afgooye were to last, we could be faced
with a critical humanitarian crisis very rapidly," he added.


The World Health Organisation has recorded 12,429 cases of acute
diarrhoea, including 414 deaths, since the beginning of the year
but many more are thought to go unreported.


The United Nations warned last week that a humanitarian
catastrophe is looming in Somalia, with aid barely trickling
through to those in need due to the fighting involving Ethiopian
and Somali government forces, clans and Islamist militants.


"It's very difficult to keep track of the situation and to ferry
through relief aid due to growing insecurity and blocked roads,"
said Veronique Taveau, a spokeswoman for the UN Children's Fund
(UNICEF).


MSF said it was "extremely concerned" about the "low response"
aid agencies are able to provide.


The UN High Commissioner for Refugees estimated last week that
321,000 people had fled Mogadishu since the beginning of
February, including some 111,000 people in the nearby Shabelle
provinces and another 109,000 people further north in Galguduud
province.


Parts of Somalia around Mogadishu are regarded as no-go areas for
foreign aid workers because of insecurity.


Supplies that manage to get through after being flown into the
southern city of Baidoa, some 250 kilometres (155 miles) from
Mogadishu, are being delivered by local Somali staff and
agencies.


The International Committe of the Red Cross said two main
hospitals in Mogadishu treated over 1,000 wounded people in
March, twice as many as for the two previous months combined.

