

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene won the toss and elected to
bat against New Zealand in the first World Cup semi-final at
Sabina Park here Tuesday.


New Zealand welcomed back fast bowler Shane Bond and pace bowling
all-rounder Jacob Oram who missed Friday's 215-run defeat by
Australia, the Black Caps heaviest one-day internationals loss,
from illness and a left heel injury respectively.


Off-spinner Jeetan Patel retained his place.


Sri Lanka's unorthodox fast bowler Lasith Malinga returned to the
team after three games out with ankle ligament damage and Dilhara
Fernando also returned after missing the team's last match, an
eight-wicket thrashing of minnows Ireland, with an ankle problem.


Under-pressure opening batsman Upul Tharanga retained his place,
seeing off the challenge of the experienced Marvan Atapattu.


When the teams met in a Super Eights match in Grenada on April
12, Sri Lanka won by six wickets.


Sri Lanka won the World Cup in 1996.


New Zealand have never played in a World Cup final although this
was their fifth semi-final appearance.


The victors in this match will play the winners of Wednesday's
second semi-final in St Lucia, between reigning champions
Australia and South Africa, in Saturday's final in Barbados.


Teams


New Zealand: Stephen Fleming (capt), Peter Fulton, Ross Taylor,
Scott Styris, Craig McMillan, Jacob Oram, Brendon McCullum (wk),
Daniel Vettori, James Franklin, Shane Bond, Jeetan Patel


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jaywardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Chaminda Vaas, Lasith Malinga, Muttiah
Muralitharan, Dilhara Fernando


Umpires: Rudi Koertzen (RSA) and Simon Taufel (AUS)


TV umpire: Daryl Harper (AUS)


Reserve umpire: Asad Rauf (PAK)


Match referee: Mike Procter (RSA)


Pitch conditions: Likely to be hard with plenty of bounce and
much quicker than the surface both sides played on during their
recent Super Eights matches in Grenada


Weather: Top temperature of 82 degrees Fahrenheit (28 dgerees
Celsius) with a chance of rain and winds up to 15 miles per hour
(25kph).

