

India's prime minister opened talks with politicians from revolt-
hit Kashmir on Tuesday in a bid to ease tensions there, but the
state's separatists boycotted the meeting.


The "Kashmir roundtable" was billed as an internal peace process
for the region and the third such meeting for groups in the
Indian-administered part of the area, which is divided between
nuclear-rivals India and Pakistan.


"There are two dimensions to the problems of Jammu and Kashmir.
One is an internal one and the other an external one, involving
Indo-Pakistan relations," said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at
the start of the conference, according to an official transcript.


"It is our intention and sincere desire to advance on both fronts
towards resolving the problems through a process of dialogue."


A peace process with Pakistan, known as the composite dialogue
was started by the two nations in January 2004.


Approximately 25 representatives of political parties and other
Kashmir groups were present at the one-day talks at the prime
minister's sprawling colonial residence in New Delhi, an aide
said.


But separatists in Indian-held Kashmir, where an insurgency
against Indian rule has raged since 1989, say that the internal
dialogue can go nowhere without the presence of the militants and
of Pakistan.


"It (the roundtable) is a futile exercise," Yasin Malik, a former
militant and now separatist politician who heads the pro-
independence Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front, told AFP Tuesday.


"Talks should be held exclusively with the people who question
India's authority over Kashmir and not with those who already
swear by the Indian constitution."


Even moderate separatists dismissed the usefulness of the talks.


"We are not against talks. But talks should involve militant
leaders from India and Pakistan and both parts of Kashmir," said
Mirwaiz Umar Farooq last week.


Farooq heads the region's moderate faction of main separatist
alliance, the Hurriyat Conference, which is pushing for total
independence for Kashmir, and has held separate talks with India
and Pakistan. Hardline separatists want the region allied with
Pakistan.


India and Pakistan hold parts of Kashmir, but claim it in full.
They have fought two of their three wars over the scenic region
since getting independence from Britain in 1947.


India also accuses Pakistan of backing the militants waging a
violent struggle against New Delhi while Pakistan in turn accuses
India of thwarting the Kashmiri people's desire for self-rule.


But self-rule and autonomy were not on the table Tuesday, with
the prime minister instead suggesting the discussions focus on
ways "to find pragmatic, practical means of improving the quality
of life of the people" of Kashmir.


These included relief for those affected by the conflict,
including a displaced minority Hindu group known as Kashmiri
Pandits, and easier travel across the Line of Control ceasefire
line that separates Indian and Pakistan-held Kashmir.


The insurgency in Kashmir has left more than 42,000 people dead
by an official count. Human rights groups put the toll at 70,000,
including 10,000 people who have disappeared and are presumed
dead.

