

Asian stocks followed Wall Street's lead and closed mostly lower
Tuesday with investors consolidating positions on the back of
recent sharp gains and ahead of corporate earnings releases.


As a result Singapore was down 0.41 percent, Sydney shed 0.34
percent, Kuala Lumpur was down 0.29 percent, Jakarta fell 0.26
percent and Bangkok eased 0.10 percent as Tokyo and Hong Kong
both closed flat.


However, Mumbai surged 1.5 percent after India's central bank
declined to raise interest rates while Shanghai, up 0.26 percent,
and Seoul, 0.80 percent higher, both ended the day in record
territory.


TOKYO: Share prices closed flat, weighed down by Wall Street's
retreat overnight and investor caution ahead of a slew of
domestic company results and economic data due this week.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 3.6 points to 17,451.77. Volume slipped
to 1.82 billion shares from 1.90 billion on Monday.


"Basically, domestic investors were sitting on the sidelines as
leading corporations line up their earnings results," said
Fumiyuki Nakanishi, chief strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


Dealers said individual investors had bought small-cap stocks but
that, overall, trading was directionless.


Among corporations scheduled to announce their earnings this week
are Sharp, Advantest, Toshiba Corp, Fujitsu, Honda Motor, Nissan
Motor, Mitsubishi Motors, All Nippon Airways, NTT DoCoMo and
Matsushita Electric Industrial.


On Friday, a batch of economic indicators are due to be released,
including the latest consumer price index and industrial
production figures and the Bank of Japan's latest report on the
outlook for economic activity and prices.


"Besides domestic earnings and economic data, investors also
would like to see what happens to US stocks in light of the
earnings results there," said Nakanishi.


Toyota Motor slipped 40 yen to 7,370. Japan's automaker said it
sold 2.348 million vehicles in the first quarter of 2007, beating
US rival General Motors which sold 2.26 million cars and trucks
for the same period.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed little changed as a recovery in
China Mobile helped the market recoup early losses driven by Wall
Street.


Dealers said trading was also generally cautious ahead of the
settlement of April futures contracts on Friday.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 16.23 points at 20,572.80. Turnover
was 47.48 billion Hong Kong dollars (6.08 billion US dollars).


"The market lacked momentum to rise further as investors took a
cautious approach ahead of futures settlement," said Peter Lai,
sales director at DBS Vickers.


"Last week's sharp gains prompted investors to take profit in
select China financials and blue chips," he said.


Sustained gains on China's A-share markets failed to boost local
shares as investors expect the Chinese government to announce
more macro-economic controls to rein in its economy, Lai said.


"Some investors expect the Chinese government to announce
measures during the golden week holiday during the first week of
May ... so they would rather remain sidelined," he said.


China Mobile rebounded slightly after recent falls and helped the
market to recoup early losses.


SEOUL: Share prices rose 0.8 percent for another record finish,
with foreign investors buying heavily into steelmakers,
shipbuilders and shipping stocks.


Dealers said initial sentiment was undercut by Wall Street's
overnight pullback and a rise in oil prices but the market
managed to rebound on support from foreign investors.


POSCO came into focus with a more than three percent rally on a
report that Woori Bank and other local financial institutions may
raise their stakes to help the company ward off a possible
hostile takeover bid.


Shipbuilders also contributed to the market's upturn on the back
of strong earnings outlooks, with Hyundai Heavy jumping more than
10 percent.


The KOSPI index closed up 12.36 points at 1,556.71. Trade was
active at 384 million shares worth 5.3 trillion won (5.7 billion
dollars).


"The market is much more resilient than I thought and today's
rebound suggests more record-breaking rallies ahead," Goodmorning
Shinhan Securities analyst Kim Hak-Gyun said.


He noted that foreign investors have shown strong interest in
shipbuilder, machinery and steelmaker stocks instead of their
conventional favourites, the IT stocks.


"Samsung SDI's earnings shock did not disturb the entire market,"
he added.


Samsung SDI rose 400 to 57,100 despite the results.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.43 percent higher as hopes for a
recovery in the tech stocks outweighed concerns over Wall
Street's retreat overnight.


Dealers said there were hopes that the key IT stocks should now
do better after Texas Instruments reported overnight that an
inventory overhang, which had been depressing sales, had shown
signs recently of easing.


That was enough to cheer local investors, with the electronics
sector the backbone of the economy and stock market.


The weighted index rose 34.55 points to 8,045.01 on turnover of
98.56 billion dollars (2.99 billion US).


Jih Sun Securities Investment Consulting deputy manager Kevin
Chung said "expectations for a recovery in the technology
industry, (especially) the panel and DRAM segments, drove the
buying."


He said investors also hoped for upbeat guidance from local firms
when they hold their quarterly briefings for investors soon.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co rose 1.20 dollars to 69.80.


SHANGHAI: Share prices extended their record breaking
performance, closing up 0.26 percent, supported by sustained
capital inflows as investors chased stocks.


Dealers said turnover was extremely heavy as investors focused on
power generators and steelmakers with more than 60 companies
gaining their limit day 10 percent, but gains on the key Shanghai
index were capped by profit taking.


They also cautioned that at current levels -- the market rose 130
percent last year and has ran ahead another 50 percent so far in
2007 -- there is an increasing chance of a sharp pull-back as
investors take profits.


The market tumbled nearly 9.0 percent at the end of February,
sparking global equity turmoil, but has bounced back very
strongly to more than recoup the loss.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 9.65 points at 3,720.53, a
fresh all-time high on turnover of 203.92 billion yuan (26.41
billion dollars).


"The record high turnover today indicated that some institutional
investors chose to unload their positions," said Xu Ming, an
analyst at Shiji Investment.


Analysts said corrections are likely in the near future given the
market's record breaking run.


"The market saw significant fluctuations as some investors took
profits but fresh money continued entering to offset early
losses," said Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities.


Dalian Thermal Power was up its 10 percent limit at 10.93.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed down 0.34 percent after a choppy
session which saw the market move in and out of positive
territory.


The SP/ASX 200 closed down 21.0 points at 6,188.2. A total of
1.63 billion shares worth 5.90 billion dollars (4.9 billion US)
were traded.


Dealers said the release of lower-than-expected inflation data
for the first quarter to March provided some forward momentum as
investors decided that the Reserve Bank of Australia is not
likely to hike interest rates anytime soon.


But they said it was not enough to overcome market inertia, with
investors reluctant to take new positions ahead of markets being
closed Wednesday for Anzac Day, which commemorates the nation's
war dead.


"We did see a reversal after the inflation data but really the
tone for the day had already been set," CMC Markets senior equity
analyst David Land said.


BHP Billiton finished up 0.01 at 30.01.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 0.41 percent lower on a
consolidation after recent gains.


The Straits Times Index closed down 13.96 points at 3,374.52 on
volume of 2.66 billion shares worth 1.67 billion dollars (1.11
billion US).


"The market is consolidating as investors are looking for fresh
buying catalysts," a dealer with a local brokerage said.


He said investors may be taking a pause before the release of
more corporate results. Among blue chips reporting quarterly
earnings this week are Keppel Land, Keppel Corp, CapitaLand,
Chartered Semiconductor and Venture Corp.


Singapore Press Holdings was up 0.04 at 4.46.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.29 percent lower on mild
profit-taking sparked by Wall Street's overnight downturn.


Dealers said the market's underlying tone was still strong but
trading will likely remain rangebound in the immediate term.


The composite index closed down 3.86 points at 1,317.50 while
volume traded was 1.46 billion shares worth 2.19 billion ringgit
(639.98 million dollars).


"The market is down due to the fall in the US market but overall
sentiment is still fairly strong," said Vincent Khoo, head of
research at Aseambankers.


"The current profit-taking is healthy with no signs that the
market will turn bearish any time soon," he added.


Tenaga was down 0.10 ringgit to 12.00.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.10 percent lower after the
country's central bank cut its growth forecast this year due to
sluggish consumption and weak business sentiment.


Dealers said the market held firm earlier on buying of energy-
linked stocks but investors sold shares in late afternoon trade
following the Bank of Thailand's downgrade of the kingdom's
economic growth.


The Bank of Thailand now expects the country's economy to expand
just 3.8-4.8 percent this year, down from its previous estimate
of 4.0-5.0 percent.


The composite index fell 0.70 points to 685.48 on turnover of 2.0
billion shares worth 10.2 billion baht (293 million dollars).


"Although investors expected the downgrade, sentiment turned
negative" in late trading, said Kanang Duangmanee, an economist
at Kasikorn Research Center.


The central bank on Tuesday cut the kingdom's growth forecast for
2007 due to "fragile" consumer and business sentiments hit by
political worries following a September coup.


While warning of the slowing economy, the government also
announced its exports, which account for 60 percent of the
kingdom's economy, jumped 18.4 percent year- on-year to a record
high of over 13 billion dollars in March.


PTT fell 2.00 baht to 208.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 0.26 percent lower as profit-taking
in blue chips led by banks offset gains in some small caps.


The composite index closed down 5.157 points at 1,981.570 on
volume of 5.62 billion shares worth 4.33 trillion rupiah (476.45
million dollars).


"The main contribution to index losses came from blue chips which
have made strong gains recently. But it is healthy profit-
taking," said Mohamad Reza, a fund manager with brokerage firm
Erdika Elit.


Bank Mandiri closed down 100 rupiah or 3.1 percent at 3,175 while
Bank Rakyat Indonesia lost 200 or 3.6 percent to 5,300.


Elit noted that on a fundamental basis, Bank Mandiri's fair
valuation is around 3,800 rupiah and so the stock's fall could be
temporary.


Bank Central Asia was flat at 5,350.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.82 percent lower on profit-taking
following losses on Wall Street and worries over the country's
fiscal health.


The composite index fell 27.08 points to settle at 3,291.93 after
moving between 3,276.56 and 3,306.82.


The broader all-share index dropped 14.99 points to 2,088.63.


Losers beat gainers 62 to 44, while 68 stocks were flat. Volume
amounted to 2.8 billion shares worth 4.4 billion pesos (92.2
million dollars).


"Investors pocketed gains from (Monday's) significant surge, and
with Wall Street falling overnight, this was used further as an
excuse to sell," said Jose Vistan of AB Capital Securities.


The key composite index jumped nearly two percent on Monday to
hit its highest level in two months, spurred by firmer US stocks
on Friday and hopes of better corporate earnings.


Vistan said investors were also caught offguard by news that the
government missed its budget gap target for the first quarter,
adding caution may prevail ahead of the midterm congressional
elections on May 14.


The government said Monday it incurred a budget deficit of 52
billion pesos for the three months to March, breaching the 45.8
billion-peso deficit ceiling, as tax collection came in short of
the target.


Globe Telecom Inc dropped 25 to 1,225.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.93 percent lower, led lower by
a sharp fall in market leader Telecom.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 38.53 points to 4,163.11 on light
turnover worth 83.6 million dollars (62.0 million US).


"All in all, quite a negative tone to the market and a real lack
of buying in a lot of these stocks as investors struggle to find
any real value," said Hamilton Hindin Greene partner Grant
Williamson.


The subdued tone came ahead of a public holiday Wednesday and a
decision by the central bank Thursday on interest rates.


Telecom fell 12 cents to 4.84 dollars as buyers disappeared.


"There was a fair amount of foreign buying in the stock (Monday)
but there's been no sign of that today (Tuesday) and the sellers
are now back in control of the stock," Williamson said.


MUMBAI: Share prices jumped 1.5 percent after India's central
bank left key short-term borrowing rates unchanged despite
inflation running well above its comfort zone.


Dealers said the Reserve Bank of India's decision had been widely
expected following a series of rate hikes earlier this year.


The Mumbai Sensex index closed up 208.39 points to 14,136.72.


Banking and automobile stocks rose smartly.


The RBI had raised short-term lending rates twice this year, by a
quarter of a percent each time to 7.75 percent -- the highest
level in more than four years -- to contain inflation running
above six percent, compared to an aim of 5.0 to 5.5 percent.


"The markets were obviously buoyant as key rates were kept
unchanged, signalling scope for growth ahead," said a dealer with
brokerage Jamnadas Morarjee.

