

Thailand's top pharmaceutical group on Tuesday called on the
country's military- backed government for more dialogue as the
two camps locked horns over the kingdom's generic drug programme.


"We need to work together in a spirit of joint endeavour if we
are to succeed in helping Thai patients," the Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturer's Association of Thailand said in a
statement.


"There is so much more that can be provided to patients by
industry and government engaging in a dialogue that is focused on
securing better health outcomes in Thailand," said the group,
which represents 43 drug giants from Europe, Japan and the United
States.


Thailand's army-installed government, which came to power after a
September coup, is at loggerheads with the pharmaceutical
industry over its drive to allow copycat versions of high-priced
AIDS and heart medicines.


But a senior health ministry official said Tuesday the government
would remain open to talks with Western drug giants over the
generic drug program.


"It is true we need to discuss more about this issue, but the
ministry is always open for dialogue," said an official who is
one of the ministry's negotiators with the industry.


The push for talks came one day after US pharmaceutical giant
Abbott Laboratories, one of three Western drugmakers involved in
the generic row, reportedly reversed a decision to withdraw its
latest AIDS drug from Thailand.


Abbott in March decided not to sell Aluvia, the new form of anti-
AIDS drug Kaletra, along with other new medicines in Thailand to
protest the ministry's decision to import cheaper versions of
Kaletra from India.


But the US company was now offering to sell Aluvia, the Wall
Street Journal said, quoting its chief executive, Miles White, to
back away from "a confrontation" with the Thai government.


Apart from Kaletra, Thailand aims to introduce generic forms of
antiretroviral Efavirenz and popular heart disease medicine
Plavix.


AIDS is Thailand's top cause of death, followed by heart disease,
the health ministry says, adding that some 500,000 Thais are
infected with HIV, but fewer than 10 percent of them can afford
to buy Kaletra.

