

French presidential rivals Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal
sent out more feelers to defeated centrist Francois Bayrou
Tuesday, though both camps ruled out electoral deals ahead of the
decisive second round vote.


With Bayrou's 6.8 million voters from Sunday's multi-candidate
round seen as the key to victory on May 6, the two finalists need
urgently to expand their base into the political middle ground.


Speaking at a rally in the eastern city of Dijon late Monday,
Sarkozy appealed to those "who voted for other candidates in the
first round and to men and women of good will" to join his right-
wing camp.


"They have their place (there) once they too share the values of
national identity, of work, of merit, of public-spiritedness, of
justice," he said.


However Sarkozy -- who leads Royal in the opinion polls -- also
ruled out any talk of "bargaining" with Bayrou or his small Union
for a French democracy (UDF) party to secure centrist votes.


"I will not seal any alliance at the cost of my convictions. I
will not build a union of parties by sacrificing my sincerity,"
he said.


Meanwhile Royal, the Socialist who would be France's first woman
president, offered Bayrou "an open debate on ideas -- without
preconditions -- in order find common ground."


"It is up to Bayrou to say whether he wants this debate. It is my
responsibility as a woman of the left to give a signal to all
voters who want change," she said.


But Royal's campaign director Francois Rebsamen made clear that
"public debate does not mean secret deals in the corridors or
party manoeuvres."


Both candidates were awaiting Bayrou's press conference on
Wednesday in which he was to explain his position ahead of the
May 6 run-off, but most commentators said he was unlikely to make
an endorsement for either side.


Campaigning on a promise to bridge the left-right divide, Bayrou
came in third Sunday with a 18.57 percent of the vote -- and
there is now feverish speculation about how his electorate will
divide up in round two.


According to political analysts, he attracted many left-wing
voters unconvinced that Royal has the stature to be president, as
well as moderate right-wingers who believe Sarkozy moved too far
to attract supporters of National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


One important factor was the future of the UDF's 29 members of
the National Assembly, who have in the past been allied to
Sarkozy's Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


The deputies were under growing pressure to endorse Sarkozy and
thus ensure they will run unopposed by a UMP candidate in
legislative elections that are due in June.


France is voting for a successor to 74-year-old Jacques Chirac --
president since 1995 -- in an election that has become the focus
of impassioned debate over the nation's future direction.


Pledging a "clean break" from the politics of the past consensus,
Sarkozy, 52, has centred his campaign around right-wing themes
such as the work ethic, national identity and economic
liberalisation.


Royal promises to protect the country's generous "social model"
and her 100-point "presidential pact" contains a large number of
new welfare projects to fight poverty and joblessness.


The two candidates are expected to hold a television debate on
May 2, which should be the high point of the second round
campaign.


Five opinion polls taken since Sunday's vote showed that Sarkozy
is clear favourite to be the next president, with a lead of
between four and eight percentage points over Royal.


Sarkozy won 31.18 percent of Sunday's vote ahead of Royal on
25.97 percent. Combined with a near record turn-out of 83.77
percent, the result was hailed as a sign of the public's
eagerness for a clear left-right presidential choice.

