

It is South African Herschelle Gibbs's misfortune that he is
remembered not so much for a century as for a dropped catch that
gave Australia a lifeline in the 1999 World Cup.


Australia captain Steve Waugh was on 56 when he offered a catch
to Gibbs who held the ball before dropping it in premature
celebrations in the Leeds encounter.


Waugh went on to score a century which helped his side win the
Super Six match by five wickets and march into the semi-finals.
It was virtually forgotten that Gibbs made a century in the same
game.


Gibbs gets a chance to make amends when South Africa clash with
defending champions Australia in the semi-final here on
Wednesday.


"You talk about '99, but how many guys get a second chance?"
South Africa captain Graeme Smith said ahead of the second Cup
semi-final between the two countries.


"Herschelle is looking forward to the opportunity and I really
believe he's up there for Wednesday. He looks very determined
going into this game."


Gibbs is one of three players who figured in that Super Six game,
others being wicket-keeper Mark Boucher and Shaun Pollock.


South Africa had lost an opportunity to knock Australia out of
the competition as Waugh's side entered the Super Six without a
point and a defeat would have sent them back home.


Whether Waugh ever told Gibbs that the South African had "dropped
the World Cup" with that catch blunder will remain a mystery.


"Hey, Herschelle do you realise that you've just cost your team
the match?" the Australian captain was to write later in his
autobiography "Out of my comfort zone".


Waugh also revealed that it was leg-spin magician Shane Warne who
had said in a team meeting that "don't walk straightaway when
Herschelle catches you because he has a habit of show boating".


It was not the only engrossing South Africa-Australia match in
the 1999 World Cup as the two were involved in a famous tied
semi-final at Edgbaston in the same tournament.


South Africa needed nine to win off the last over, with Lance
Klusener at the crease. It became one to win off the last four
balls when Klusener hit paceman Damien Fleming for two successive
fours.


No run came off the third ball. Klusener connected the fourth and
charged for a single, but Allan Donald apparently did not hear
the call.


Donald responded late, dropped his bat on the way and was yards
out of the crease when wicket-keeper Adam Gilchrist broke the
stumps.


The two teams have so far met in four Cup matches, with Australia
winning two and losing one. The other match was tied.


The first clash was in 1992 when South Africa returned to
international cricket after more than two decades of isolation
due to apartheid.


Kepler Wessels's South Africans were comfortable winners by nine
wickets against Allan Border's Australians at Sydney. After the
two famous matches in 1999, Australia beat South Africa in a
group match of the ongoing tournament.

