

Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian on Tuesday renewed his call for a
posthumous trial of Chinese nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek
for his alleged role in the 1947 killing of thousands of
islanders.


Chen said a previous government probe indicated that Chiang was
the culprit of the "2-28 Incident", named after the date it
occurred.


"Sixty years have elapsed, but the resentment of the victims and
their families has yet been reduced because the perpetrator
remains unpunished," Chen said, while meeting South Africa's
Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu.


"This is something very much unfair," Chen said, without saying
how the late nationalist leader could stand trial.


Addressing a seminar in February marking the 60th anniversary of
the events, Chen said they were "not only a historical event, the
mass killing also involves criminal and legal issues."


"Those who committed the crimes ... should face justice and stand
trial," said.


Tutu, who arrived here Wednesday, called on the people of Taiwan
to face their painful history if they are to heal the wounds
caused by a 1947 uprising.


Tutu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, headed South
Africa's post- apartheid Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


A report by a Taiwan government-funded foundation a year ago
charged that Chiang, who died in 1975, "should shoulder greatest
responsibility" for the killings.


It was the first time the late Kuomintang (KMT) leader was
officially held responsible for the events that led, according to
the report, to the deaths of 18,000 to 28,000 people in riots and
their ensuing suppression.


The riots erupted after a KMT inspector beat a female vendor in
Taipei for selling untaxed cigarettes.


According to the report, Chiang, who at that time was China's
government leader, ordered a crackdown and KMT troops were sent
over from the mainland to quell the riots spreading across the
island.


Chiang fled to Taiwan in 1949 after his forces lost a civil war
to Chinese communist forces led by Mao Zedong.


For decades the 1947 killings were taboo under Taiwan's KMT
government. It was not until 1995 that president Lee Teng-hui
made the first official apology and parliament agreed
compensation and made February 28 a national holiday.


Chen ended the KMT's 51-year grip on power in Taiwan when he was
voted in as president in 2000.

