

Effusive international tributes to former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin on Tuesday came in stark contrast to the hostility his
name evokes with the Russian public.


From UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to US President George W.
Bush and even leaders of Japan, which has never officially ended
World War II with Russia, praised Yeltsin's defence of democracy
and his efforts to build bridges with the West.


While the Russian public blames Yeltsin, who died on Monday aged
76, for the economic troubles they suffered after the collapse of
Soviet communism, Bush and others hailed him as a heroic figure
who defended a fledgling democracy.


"President Yeltsin was an historic figure who served his country
during a time of momentous change," the US president said in a
statement.


"He played a key role as the Soviet Union dissolved, helped lay
the foundations of freedom in Russia, and became the first
democratically elected leader in that country's history," Bush
said.


The UN secretary general said "President Yeltsin will be
remembered for the critical role he played in advancing political
and economic reforms in Russia, as well as in fostering
rapprochement between East and West."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Yeltsin was a "remarkable"
man who had fearlessly championed democracy and economic reform.


"And in defending that reform he played a vital role at a crucial
time in Russia's history," Blair said.


Former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, famously dubbed
the "Iron Lady" by the Soviet-era leadership in Moscow, said
Yeltsin deserved to be honoured "as a patriot and liberator."


Many recalled the iconic image of Yeltsin clambering onto a tank
sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist hardliners attempting a
coup in the dying days of the Soviet Union.


"No American, at least, will forget seeing him standing on the
tank," said US Defence Secretary Robert Gates.


"As president he had enormous challenges and difficult mandates
but he certainly brought East and West closer together and helped
replace confrontation by cooperation," said EU Commission
president Jose Manuel Barroso said.


China called Yeltsin a "sincere friend of the Chinese people".
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said Yeltsin
"made prominent contributions to the development of our bilateral
ties" by establishing a strategic partnership and helping resolve
a long-standing border dispute.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso hailed Yeltsin for building a
"new foundation" between the two neighbours.


"He built a new foundation of progress in Japan-Russia relations
with his efforts to resolve territorial issues."


Japan and Russia have yet to sign a peace treaty formally ending
World War II, due to a dispute over four islands seized by Soviet
troops after Tokyo surrendered in 1945.


Yeltsin and former prime minister Ryutaro Hashimoto reached a
landmark accord in 1997 to "maximise" efforts to resolve the
dispute and sign a peace treaty by 2000, but the two countries
failed to achieve that goal.


Australian Prime Minister John Howard on Tuesday said the former
Russian president had earned his place in history "as the person
who really ultimately did save the arrival of democracy in
Russia."


Feelings toward Yeltsin in his native Russia were highlighted by
Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet president, who paid a mixed
tribute to the man who ended up helping to push him out of
office.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," Gorbachev said.


Yeltsin's former advisor, Alexander Nekrasov, said he would
always be remembered as the man who brought down communism, but
acknowledged that things went "seriously wrong" for his old boss
after his election win in 1996.


"People were using his position to gain enormous wealth. Yeltsin
was sometimes weak and ill, well, let's face it he was drinking a
lot," he said.


Political leaders in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia mourned the
man who helped all three Baltic countries regain independence
from the Soviet Union.


"Yeltsin was the statesman who laid the ground," Lithuanian Prime
Minister Gediminas Kirkilas told AFP.


Former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi called Yeltsin
"providential". Greek Prime Minister Costas Caramanlis and
Austrian President Heinz Fischer both sent letters of condolence
to Russia and the Yeltsin family.

