

Japan midfielder Shunsuke Nakamura, who has helped power Celtic
to the Scottish Premier League championship, says he is feeling
old at 28 and pondering a transfer.


"Celtic are a great team," said Nakamura whose two free-kicks in
a 2-1 win over Kilmarnock at home on Sunday -- one in injury time
-- sealed the second straight national title for the Glasgow
side.


"We have a coach with solid ideas and our supporters are
wonderful," the left- footed player told Japanese journalists in
Glasgow, as heaps of praise for him continued at home.


"If I were young, I'd want to stay at Celtic a little longer and
then play in Spain before returning to Japan at last. But I'm
getting old," Nakamura said, according to the business daily
Nikkei.


"I want to focus on the remaining matches now and I want to take
my time in the off season and think about a transfer."


Nakamura was voted the Player of the Year by the Scottish
Professional Footballers' Association hours after Celtic's title
triumph and also won the Goal of the Season honour.


The former J-League Yokohama Marinos star was the first Japanese
to win a top playing award in any European league.


His tone contrasts with an interview he gave to Celtic's official
website on which he said: "I'll definitely be at Celtic Park next
season, hopefully to lift my third championship in a row."


"It has been a good season, playing well in the Champions League
and we've won the league again. Now our aim is to win the
Scottish Cup," added the hero of Japan's second straight Asian
Cup win in 2004 and who is key for efforts to clinch a third
straight title in July.


Nakamura, who played three years at Serie-A Reggina before
joining Celtic in 2005, told Japanese reporters he had not heard
about any transfer offers.


"Certainly, I will feel comfortable staying at Celtic next
season," he said. "But, to grow as a player, it may be better for
me to put myself in a tougher environment.


"It would be difficult to jump into a new environment when I am
over 30. I want to make the best choice by taking into
consideration the coach, teammates, the chance of playing and all
the other aspects."


Nakamura had also made remarks to the Japanese press in January
suggesting returning to Japan, which were quickly denied in
Scotland.


Saburo Kawabuchi, head of the Japan Football Association, said in
Tokyo that Nakamura had caught up with fellow midfield
international Hidetoshi Nakata in global fame.


Nakata, a veteran of three World Cup finals who played at Serie-A
clubs and Bolton, retired after Japan's winless, early exit from
the 2006 World Cup finals in Germany. Nakamura was hit by injury
and fitness problems in Germany.


"Nakamura will top Hide (Nakata) if he does well next year,"
Kawabuchi told reporters. "I hope he will stay in top condition
until the 2010 World Cup in South Africa."

