

Russians mourned Tuesday at the coffin of their first post-Soviet
leader, Boris Yeltsin, as debate swelled over the flamboyant ex-
president's role in overseeing the painful birth of a new Russia.


The lying-in-state of Yeltsin, who died Monday aged 76, was
scheduled to start at 1130 GMT in the golden-domed Christ the
Saviour cathedral, followed by an Orthodox Christian ceremony.


A grandiose funeral was scheduled Wednesday when Yeltsin will be
taken from the cathedral for burial alongside eminent Russians at
Moscow's historic Novodevichy cemetery.


A national day of mourning will be observed, with flags at half-
mast nationwide, and President Vladimir Putin has postponed his
annual state of the nation speech from Wednesday to Thursday, the
Kremlin said. State television will broadcast ceremonies live.


The solemn farewell to the man who brought down the Soviet Union
in 1991 and transformed Russia into a capitalist democracy
prompted soul-searching across the world's biggest country.


News of Yeltsin's death from a heart attack and retrospectives on
his epic political career filled the airwaves and dominated
newspapers.


"Yeltsin was the last hero. Now we just have people," the
independent daily Vremya Novostei said.


"The main quality of a hero is not his historical good or bad
points or the number of his mistakes, his victories or defeats.
What is important for a hero is greatness, even if it is
frightening."


Tributes also poured in from Western leaders who see Yeltsin as a
champion of freedom. Putin said that under Yeltsin "a newly
democratic Russia was born, and a free nation opened to the
world."


However, millions of ordinary Russians nostalgic for Soviet power
blame Yeltsin for losing a vast empire and plunging his country
into years of economic and political turmoil.


Liberal critics underline Yeltsin's launch of two Chechen wars,
his alliance with corrupt business tycoons, and the handover of
power in 1999 to Putin, an ex-KGB officer who restored national
pride but has restricted political freedoms.


Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader and the man brought
down by Yeltsin's pro-democracy crusade, gave a mixed appraisal.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," Gorbachev said.


Western leaders, who pushed the boundaries of NATO and the
European Union deep into Russia's former sphere of influence
during the 1990s, were effusive in praise.


US President George W. Bush hailed a "historic figure who served
his country during a time of momentous change." British Prime
Minister Tony Blair applauded a "remarkable man who... played a
vital role at a crucial time."


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon lauded Yeltsin for "fostering
rapprochement between East and West."


A bear-like figure with a penchant for flamboyant gestures,
Yeltsin will be best remembered for bravely clambering onto a
tank sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist hardliners attempting
a coup in the dying days of the Soviet Union.


His defiance galvanised pro-democracy supporters, ushered in the
Soviet collapse in December 1991 and eight years of turbulent,
historic rule.


Yeltsin then sought to drag Russia into the modern age. He forced
the bankrupt communist economy to adopt capitalism, unleashed
political pluralism, and allowed a vibrant, freewheeling media.


The mass circulation pro-government daily Izvestia on Tuesday
praised Yeltsin for not clinging on to power at the close of his
second term.


"In power many people cursed him, but in leaving the Kremlin he
showed his critics and his supporters that there is something
more important than hunger for power," Izvestia said.


A poll by the Levada Analytical Centre in December found 70
percent of those asked thought the Yeltsin era did more harm than
good. Half thought he should be prosecuted.


Friends said history would judge Yeltsin more favourably as the
father -- however flawed -- of Russian democracy.


"I consider that (he) did the absolute impossible. He brought us
from no freedom to liberty," said Anatoly Chubais, one of the
architects of liberal economic reforms under Yeltsin.


Novodevichy cemetery, where Yeltsin will be laid to rest, is
Moscow's most famous burial place, including the graves of
playwright Anton Chekhov and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.


The ex-president will lie in a section traditionally reserved for
outstanding Soviet and Russian military men, state-run RIA
Novosti news agency reported.


The cathedral where a memorial service is to take place is a
recreation of a church demolished under Stalin and rebuilt under
Yeltsin.

