

Plans by Bangladesh's emergency government to exile former
premier Khaleda Zia to Saudi Arabia appeared to stall Tuesday
over visa negotiations, a report said.


The New Age daily, quoting diplomatic sources, said the Saudi
embassy in Dhaka had "refused to issue a long-stay visa to Zia
unless she appears at the embassy in person."


The report said Saudi authorities need Zia to "testify to the
fact that she would indeed be entering the kingdom of her own
free will."


A report in the Daily Star newspaper said Saudi authorities began
to ask questions after a group of Zia's supporters in the Middle
Eastern state informed them that she was being forced out of
Bangladesh against her will.


The newspaper refuted reports that Zia had changed her mind about
going into exile.


Zia was "mentally prepared to go and she is still under pressure
to go into exile," the Daily Star report said, quoting a source
close to the family.


A close aide of Zia's, however, told AFP that the stress of the
situation had taken its toll on the 61-year-old.


"Khaleda fell sick after several days of lack of sleep and
stress. Two army doctors, Brigadier Sharif and Brigadier Mahtab,
checked her and said she was suffering from low blood pressure
and diabetics although she has improved today (Tuesday)," the
aide said.


The government is trying to exile Zia, the country's last prime
minister and leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), as
well as Awami League chief Sheikh Hasina Wajed as part of an
anti-corruption campaign aimed at giving the country a new start.


Both women stand accused of years of misrule that culminated in a
political crisis in January.


Zia is reported to have agreed to leave the country in return for
leniency for her two sons, both of whom face corruption
allegations.


Sheikh Hasina was on Sunday barred from boarding a flight to
Dhaka from London. Murder and extortion charges were filed
against her last month while she was in the United States
visiting relatives.


A statement issued late Monday, apparently signed by a dozen
leaders of different wings of her Awami League, called on party
activists to stage demonstrations Tuesday against the ban on her
return.


But the party on Tuesday denied any knowledge of the statement.


"The Awami League doesn't have any relation with the statement.
We think someone else has issued the statement," said Awami
League spokesman Abdul Jalil.


"We want to fight the ban on Sheikh Hasina's return in the court
and our lawyers have started work on it," he added.


All political protests and gatherings have been banned since
emergency rule was imposed in January.


The interim government has pledged to hold elections by the end
of 2008 after it has completed sweeping reforms aimed at putting
democracy back on track in the troubled south Asian country.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina have held power alternately since 1991 when
democracy was reinstated after a people's revolt ousted former
military dictator Hossain Mohammad Ershad.


Known as the "battling begums" for their longstanding mutual
dislike, each come from rival Bangladeshi dynasties that have
dominated the country's political landscape since it won
independence in 1971.

