

A surge of US troop numbers in Iraq to quell sectarian violence
will be a "waste of time" if the real roots of the conflict are
not tackled, a former Iraqi prime minister said on Tuesday.


"It will not succeed without political and national
reconciliation," Iyad Allawi told reporters on the sidelines of a
conference on democracy and development in the Qatari capital
Doha.


"If this does not take place, then the surge is going to be a
waste of time," he added.


The United States announced in January that it was deploying more
than 21,500 additional troops to Iraq, bringing the total to
160,000 by June.


The bulk of the soldiers are going to Baghdad, while 4,000 are
heading to the province of Al-Anbar, a Sunni Arab insurgent
stronghold to the west.


Allawi's warning came a day after a suicide car bomber struck a
US military outpost north of Baghdad, killing nine soldiers and
wounding 20 others, in the deadliest attack on American ground
forces in 16 months.


The latest fatalities took the US military's losses in Iraq to
3,330 since their March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count
based on Pentagon figures.


Allawi's comments were matched by the new US ambassador in Iraq,
Ryan Crocker, who used his first press conference on Monday to
urge Iraqi politicians to seek national reconciliation.


"These months ahead are going to be critical as this (troop
increase) plan continues forward to increase security and gain
the time, but most especially as Iraqis then try and use that
time to grapple with some of these difficult issues," he said.


Allawi, who served as prime minister of a post-Saddam Hussein
interim Iraqi government, also voiced his disapproval of the
construction of a controversial concrete security wall around a
Sunni district in Baghdad.


"Rather than thinking of walls and barriers... we should be
thinking about the root of the problem in Iraq which is
political," he said. "Without doing this, there will be no end to
barriers and walls being built."


The US says the wall is only designed to be temporary and is
supported by Iraqi security forces.


But several hundred people held a noisy street protest in the
capital on Monday over the building of the five-meter (16-feet)
high, three-mile (five-kilometer) wall.


A murderous wave of Sunni-Shiite violence is sweeping Iraq.

