

The US Congress is preparing to vote this week on an Iraq war
spending bill calling for US troops to begin a pullout in just
six months, despite a veto threat by President George W. Bush.


The 124.2 billion dollar bill, compromise legislation hammered
out between House and Senate negotiators late Monday, calls for
withdrawal of most US combat forces from Iraq beginning no later
than October 1, 2007, with a non-binding goal for completing the
pullout by April 1, 2008.


The compromise bill sets up a showdown with the president, who
has adamantly rejected all timetables for US troops deployed in
Iraq.


Democrats in Congress however said their bill reflects the wishes
of the US public for troops to leave Iraq sooner rather than
later.


"The legislation reflects the will of the American people and the
best interests of our nation," said Senate Appropriations
Committee chairman Robert Byrd.


"This legislation fully funds our brave troops, who risk their
lives every day serving our country," said Byrd, a longtime Iraq
war critic, in a statement after the agreement was reached.


The legislation also provides funding for troop and veteran
health care, and recovery of the hurricane-ravaged US Gulf Coast.


Senator Daniel Inouye, a World War II veteran, said the
compromise legislation realistically reflects the limits to what
the United States can achieve militarily in Iraq.


"At the end, how many of us truly still believe we will emerge
victorious, whatever victory means?  With a Jeffersonian
democracy on the banks of the Tigris River?" the Hawaii senator
said at a press conference Monday.


In a joint statement, leaders of the Democrat-run Congress urged
Bush to abandon his veto plan and offer a workable alternative.


"The agreement reached between the House and the Senate rejects
the president's failed policies in Iraq and his open-ended
commitment to keep American troops there indefinitely and forges
a new direction for a responsible end to the war," House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said in a
joint statement.


"If the president follows through on his veto threat, he will be
the one who has failed to provide our troops and our veterans
with the resources they need, and it will be the president who
has rejected the benchmarks he announced in January to measure
success in Iraq," they said.


"It is now up to the president to make a decision: continue to
stay his failed course or join us to give our troops a strategy
for success."


There appeared to be little chance, however, that the president
would change position, after Bush as recently as Monday again
rejected any time line imposed on how long US troops should stay
in Iraq.


"I believe strongly that politicians in Washington shouldn't be
telling generals how to do their job. And I believe artificial
timetables of withdrawal would be a mistake," said Bush, as he
met in the Oval Office with the top US commander in Iraq, General
David Petraeus.


The US president also asserted that a US-led security crackdown
had reduced sectarian violence in Iraq.


"There's been some progress. There's been some horrific bombings,
of course, but there's also a decline in sectarian violence," he
said.


Top House Republican John Boehner slammed the bill as "just plain
senseless."


"The Democrats' ill-conceived proposal compromises the work of
general Petraeus, it compromises our troops, and it compromises
the security of the American people," he said.


Under the bill the pullout would begin on July 1 if the Pentagon
cannot certify Iraqi progress in disarming militias, reducing
sectarian violence and resolving political differences between
the various Iraqi factions.


With a razor thin majority in Congress, Democrats said they were
well aware that they lack the votes to overcome Bush's threatened
veto, and already were preparing for the next round of
negotiations.


"The president has indicated he intends to veto this legislation.
I wish that that were not so," said Representative David Obey,
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee at Monday's press
conference.


"But if it is, the best thing that we can do ... is to get this
to the president as quickly as possible, so that he can take
whatever action he deems necessary so that we can again get about
the business of compromising."

