

One of the world's most endangered animals, the Sumatran
rhinoceros, has been filmed in the wild for the first time in a
coup that could help save it from extinction, wildlife
campaigners said Tuesday.


The night time footage from Borneo island in Malaysia showed a
Sumatran rhino eating, peering through jungle foliage, before it
walked up to the camera and sniffed the equipment.


Malaysian officials and the WWF hailed the two-minute clip from a
video camera mounted in a forest as a rare look into the rhino's
life.


"These are very shy animals that are almost never seen by people
and so this video gives us an amazing opportunity to spy on the
rhino's behaviour," said Mahedi Andau, director the wildlife
department in eastern Sabah state on Borneo island.


The Sumatran rhinoceros is one of the world's most critically-
endangered species, with only small numbers left on Indonesia's
Sumatra island, Sabah and peninsular Malaysia, according to the
WWF.


The rhino shot in the two-minute footage is a Bornean subspecies
and scientists estimate there are only between 25 and 50 left on
the island, mostly believed to be found in Sabah's dense interior
forests, it said.


Raymond Alfred, project manager for WWF-Malaysia's Asian Rhino
and Elephant Action Strategy, said the footage and other photo
stills would be used to determine the animals' condition.


"This is one of the greatest efforts for our project because now
we can see what kind of habitat or what kind of forest condition
the rhino lives in," Alfred told AFP.


The rhino was found in a commercial forest where human activity
such as logging is commonplace but the footage will be used to
convince the Sabah government to turn the area into a rhino
conservation zone.


"These rhinos could face extinction in the next 10 years if their
habitat continues to be disturbed and enforcement is not in
place," Alfred said.


The shy creature's population has suffered from poaching and
illegal encroachment into its habitat. The rhinos are so isolated
that they rarely meet to breed.


The Sabah forestry department said in the statement it was trying
to acquire a 200-hectare (500-acre) forest corridor to be secured
as a rhino habitat.


It also said it was enhancing security in its part of the "Heart
of Borneo" where the rhino was found, a 240,000 square kilometre
(96,000-square mile) area of rainforest across the Malaysian,
Brunei and Indonesian parts of the island.


WWF-Malaysia said footage of the rhino could be viewed on the
Internet at: www.panda.org/borneorhino.

