

Two thousand Iranian students at a prestigious university in the
southern city of Shiraz have staged a protest over fresh
restrictions on conduct and clothing, press reports said on
Tuesday.


"About 2,000 students in Shiraz University rallied on campus from
Sunday night until Monday morning and demanded that the
university head resign," the reformist Etemad Melli newspaper
reported.


"The students took control of the entrance and did not allow
professors into the campus," another report in Etemad daily said,
adding the students had smashed window panes and notice-boards.


The protests were triggered by a new code of conduct banning the
students from wearing shorts and sleeveless vests outside rooms
in their strictly segregated dormitories and an extended curfew
of 11:00 pm to 5:00 am.


The students are also no longer allowed to have visitors in the
dorms, and the wardens can carry out random checks in the rooms,
the reports said.


It is not clear whether the new directive falls in line with a
nationwide clampdown on "badly-veiled" women which the police
launched on Saturday.


"Restriction and control on students' clothing, especially on
female students, in the past months has drawn increased protests
among university students around the country," Etemad Melli said.


It said protests have intensified following the recent detention
of students from Mazandaran University in northern Iran.


Iranian news agencies reported on April 15 and 16 that 15
students from Mazandaran University had been detained in
connection with suspensions, a protest, and a previous arrest.


Iranian universities were a stronghold of reformists during the
eight-year presidency of Mohammad Khatami.


Scores of student leaders were detained after unrest in 1998
following a raid by Islamist vigilantes on dormitories.


A visit by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to a prominent Tehran
university in November 2006 generated angry scenes, with the
students heckling the president and calling him a "dictator".

