

The father of British bar hostess Lucie Blackman said Tuesday his
daughter gave her life for others after a Japanese serial rapist
was sentenced to life in prison but acquitted of charges over her
death.


Joji Obara, a wealthy former property developer, was convicted
Tuesday of the rapes of nine other women, one of whom died.


Tim Blackman, speaking at a news conference with his other
daughter Sophie, said he was "bitterly disappointed" by the
verdict and supported filing an appeal.


"Today we witnessed Lucie giving her life for justice for
others," Blackman said.


"The verdict in the court has shown that Lucie's life was not in
vain and that Sophie's and my works over the last six and seven
years have eventually brought justice to Carita Ridgway and the
eight other rape victims who bravely came forward to support the
case," he said.


"But unfortunately today we have not seen justice for Lucy."


"We had no idea ... that the prosecution team would fail in
making it stick, that's left us feeling really completely
unresolved," he said. "We thought we would come here and to be
able to draw a line under the whole affair."


Sophie, 27, who joined her father in the court Tuesday, said she
was at least satisfied that Obara was behind bars.


"From the very start of this whole sad and sorry affair, the only
thing we ever hoped for was justice for Lucie. For us knowing
that Obara would spend the rest of his life in prison was that
justice," she said.


"And it is the sad realisation later on in the day that a more
appropriate verdict could have been made which was upsetting,"
she said.


Tim Blackman defended himself against charges by his ex-wife,
Lucie's mother Jane Steare, that he weakened the chances of a
conviction by accepting condolence money from a friend of Obara.


"It hasn't cropped up at all whatsoever," he said. "The judge
during his summing up said that any payments that has been made
was completely made irrelevant to the trial."


He said he would talk to prosecutors through the British embassy
seeking an appeal.


"It's up to the prosecution to decide whether they're prepared to
make an appeal," he said.


"But we've made our position extremely clear that we believe that
our family deserves to get proper justice for Lucie and that they
should give strong consideration to an appeal."

