

African states called Tuesday for a 20-year ban on trade in ivory
to protect the continent's elephants from poachers and possible
extinction in the wild.


Kenya and Mali, which spearheaded the moratorium along with Togo
and Ghana, are seeking to have the measure adopted at the June
meeting of the 169-nation Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), their
representatives said at a meeting in Paris.


A delegation representing some 20 African nations, including the
Democratic Republic of Congo and Niger, will tour Europe this
week to secure backing from the European Union for the ban, they
said.


"The elephants are dramatically becoming depleted," said Patrick
Omondi, head of species conservation and management at the Kenya
Wildlife Service. "A 20-year moratorium is necessary to allow the
population to recover, and to refine the mechanisms of law
enforcement."


The African representatives lashed out at partial bans and quotas
that have been implemented in the past.


"Every time CITES authorises the sale of limited quantities of
ivory, we witness an increase in poaching and illegal trade,"
said Bourama Niagate, head of the delegation and of nature
conservation in Mali.


"We are confronted with men who are very organized and better
armed than our standing armies, and at the same time we are in
charge of protecting hundreds of thousands of hectares (acres) of
parks and preserves without even basic communication tools," he
said.


According to a report submitted by the African nations to CITES,
the continent's elephant population has plummeted approximately
ten fold from up to five million in the 1940s to 400,000 to
600,000 today.


Some 20,000 elephants are killed by poachers every year,
according to the document.


Illegal hunting has devastated elephant populations in Cameroon,
the Central African Republic, Congo, the DRC, as well as in
Niger, Mali, Malawi and Chad, where poachers recently killed
three park officials.


"At 850 dollars a kilo for ivory in Japan, a poacher will go to
any lengths to obtain 10 or 20 kilos," said the DRC's
representative, Cosma Wilungula Balongelwa. "We have already lost
our rhinoceros because of the trade in their horns."


In Sub-Saharan Africa, only a handful of countries -- South
Africa, Namibia and Botswana -- do not support the moratorium.
These nations are authorised by CITES to export limited
quantities of ivory on the condition that they maintain elephant
populations at certain levels through conservation.

