

Thailand remains the top destination for travellers despite civil
unrest in the country, an online survey released Tuesday said.


Twenty percent of those surveyed in 10 countries by VISA Asia
Pacific and PATA, the Pacific Asia Travel Association, named
Thailand as their most likely destination, VISA and Bangkok-based
PATA said in a statement.


The survey of 5,050 people identified as "committed or possible
Asia travellers" was conducted online between late February and
March, they said.


About two-thirds of those surveyed had already visited Asia, and
47 percent of those had been to Thailand.


"In fact, Thailand was again rated as the number one destination
on travellers' holiday lists, followed by Japan and China," VISA
and PATA said in a news release.


"Thailand's reputation as a relaxing place where people can enjoy
the local culture, natural beauty and friendly people continued
to increase in the minds of those looking to travel to Asia,"
despite international media attention on the country's civil
unrest ahead of the survey, the news release said.


A bloodless coup occurred in Thailand last September when tanks
rolled onto the streets to overthrow the elected government of
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Since then, violence has
escalated in the country's Muslim-majority south bordering
Malaysia.


On the Lunar New Year in February, just before VISA-PATA
conducted their survey, militants staged bombings, shootings and
arson attacks that left nine dead in the south.


Three other people died and dozens were hurt in the capital,
Bangkok, after bombs on the December 31 New Year's Eve.


Official Thai statistics this month showed Asian tourists have
begun turning away from Thailand, prompting concern that
holidaymakers might be avoiding the kingdom because of its
continuing political woes.


The VISA-PATA survey found that of those intending to make an
international trip in the next two years, 52 percent were
considering Asia as their next travel destination, a nine percent
increase from the previous year's survey.


Sweden had the highest number of people considering Asia, it
said.


Nearly half, or 47 percent of respondents in the VISA-PATA survey
identified "terrorism" as the top  barrier to travel, and
Indonesia was the destination most commonly identified as
affected by it. Sri Lanka and the Philippines followed.


"In an atmosphere of conflict and misunderstanding, the travel
and tourism industry can be an incredibly powerful force for
conciliation," said PATA president and chief executive officer
Peter de Jong.


The survey was conducted in Australia, Canada, China, Germany,
India, Japan, South Korea, Sweden, United Kingdom and the United
States.


PATA, a not-for-profit organisation, represents government
tourism bodies, airlines and other travel industry companies.

