

After more than three decades of mega deals, buyout kings Henry
Kravis and George Roberts have set their sights on Japan, aiming
to soften the image of private equity firms here as corporate
vultures.


Japan is one of the final frontiers for Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
& Co. (KKR), the US-based private equity firm that is
responsible for some of the biggest acquisitions in US corporate
history.


KKR says it has never done a hostile takeover and has no plans to
start now. Instead it is betting that Japanese companies will
gradually lose their hostility to private equity funds and turn
to KKR to revitalise their fortunes.


"Obviously if the board and the shareholders don't want to sell
there is not going to be any opportunity for us to make an
investment," Roberts told a press conference here Tuesday.


But he said that large Japanese companies had hundreds of listed
subsidiaries that might be underperforming and management would
come under increasing pressure to ensure the best returns for
shareholders.


"As these pressures build and as shareholders become more aware,
especially younger people that are investing for their future, I
would think that they would ask these companies to perform
better," he said.


Private equity funds have not received a warm welcome in Japan,
where hostile takeover bids are rare and companies have
traditionally tended to put the interests of employees and
corporate partners before those of investors.


But Kravis said that as a global private equity fund, KKR had to
be in Japan, where it last year tapped Taketo Yamakawa, former
head of General Electric's consumer finance operations in Japan,
to run an expanding operation.


"We must be global and hence our very big interest in Asia and in
Japan in particular," said Kravis, who left Bear Stearns in 1976
to set up KKR along with his cousin Roberts and Jerome Kohlberg
Jr., who left in 1987.


"This is the second biggest economy in the world. We are very
patient. We know that in Japan it will take us a long time to be
accepted. We want to work with Japanese investors as partners,"
he said.


Since it was founded almost 31 years ago, KKR has completed about
150 transactions with a total value of over 274 billion dollars.


Earlier this year it led a consortium that agreed to buy Texas
utility TXU for a massive 45 billion dollars.


But its two co-founders are quick to stress that they are not
asset strippers.


"We are not a hedge fund. We are not a venture capital fund,"
said Kravis.


"We believe very strongly in only doing friendly transactions. We
are not an activist fund but rather like to go where we are
welcome," he said.


KKR is not the first private equity fund to target Japan.


A consortium led by US fund Ripplewood bought Long Term Credit
Bank of Japan, now called Shinsei Bank, in 2000 for 1.1 billion
dollars. In 2003 Ripplewood snapped up Japan Telecom from
Vodafone for some 2.2 billion dollars.


Kravis said the situation in Japan had similarities to the United
States in the 1970s and 1980s when many companies were
underperforming until activist investors and financial
institutions began pressing them to raise their game.


"The managements woke up and they really started operating much
more efficiently," he said, adding that the same could happen in
Japan.


"It's not going to happen overnight but we believe that it will
and we certainly plan to be here for the long term and plan to be
patient investors."

