

The leader of Nepal's former rebel Maoists called Tuesday for an
immediate end to the monarchy in the Himalayan nation, on the
first anniversary of the end of King Gyanedra's direct rule.


"We want the interim parliament to declare a republic
immediately," Maoist chief Prachanda told thousands of people at
a ceremony marking last year's victory of the "people's movement"
that forced Gyanendra to relinquish direct rule.


As part of a peace deal late last year between the Maoists and
government, Nepal is due to go to the polls to elect a body that
will rewrite the constitution and decide the future of the 238
-year-old monarchy.


The polls are due to be held in June according to the agreement
but the chief electoral officer has said he needs more time to
prepare the elections.


"If it (the declaration of a republic) doesn't happen, we will
come to the people and launch protests to declare a republic,"
said the formerly elusive leftist whose nom de guerre means "the
Fierce One."


Prachanda asserts the king has been stirring up ethnic unrest in
Nepal's southeast in a bid to derail the peace process and retain
his role as monarch.


The Maoist leader was renewing a call he made earlier this month
when he said Nepal had to "find a new political basis in order to
move forward (and) that basis is to declare the country a
republic immediately."


The government appointed last month, containing five Maoist
ministers, has yet to make a formal announcement on whether the
constitutional assembly elections will be postponed.


King Gyanendra dismissed the government in February 2005 and
seized absolute power, claiming that the country was headed for
anarchy.


But his heavy-handed crackdown on free speech -- including mass
arrests of protesters and tight media controls -- led to a surge
in anti-royal sentiment.


At least 19 people died and 5,000 were injured in last year's
protests, which forced the king to abandon direct rule.


The king since lost his title as head of state and no longer is
army chief.


The Maoists, who still feature on Washington's list of foreign
"terrorist" groups, face continued allegations of mafia-like
conduct including extortion, kidnappings and beatings.


At least 13,000 people were killed in the conflict the leftists
began in western Nepal in 1996.

