

Among the disasters to befall Iraq in the four years since the US
invasion, it has at least been spared an epidemic. This week,
Iraqi health workers are battling to ensure things stay that way.


In coordination with the United Nations children's fund (UNICEF)
they have launched a large-scale immunisation drive to protect
3.9 million infants with the MMR vaccine against measles, mumps
and rubella.


"One million children without immunity is like dry tinder waiting
for a spark," UNICEF spokeswoman Claire Hajaj told AFP in Amman.


The World Health Organisation and UNICEF are helping the Iraqi
health ministry with supplies and expertise, but the violence on
the ground still prevents international staff from taking part.


Nevertheless, Hajaj said that despite the difficulties of
operating amid a sectarian war and a violent insurgency, Iraq's
measles eradication programme has been a suprising success.


In 2004, there were 9,181 cases of childhood measles in Iraq, and
last year less than 500. "There are many problems facing Iraqi
children. For measles, at least, we have a solution, a vaccine
that protects for life," Hajaj said.


In Baghdad this week, the immunisation teams were hard at work.


At a medical centre in downtown Karrada, Dr Alyaa Ahmed Aziz
said: "We started on Sunday and continue for a fortnight. We aim
to immunise about 3.9 million children throughout Iraq regardless
how many times they received it."


"Sixteen medical centres and 61 medical teams, both roaming and
fixed, will immunise children in east Baghdad," she told AFP as
parents brought their kids to receive their jabs.


Health workers have decided to concentrate on measles as a
particularly virulent disease that can kill up to 10 percent of
its victims, cause male sterility and weaken children's immunity
against other infections.


Dr Aziz said the war in Baghdad had made the campaign more
difficult, by making families suspicious of immunisation teams,
and thanked local clerics and politicians for coming with her
teams to reassure people.


"The municipal assembly and clerics are spreading the word, and
reassuring people this is endorsed by the health ministry," said
local councillor Siham Ameer, while regretting the lack of
international assistance on the ground.


"I hope the United Nations and UNICEF teams will come back to
deliver medical care for Iraqis again," she said.


Humanitarian assistance to Iraq has been operating under strict
limits since a bomb attack on the United Nations headquarters in
Baghdad in August 2003 killed 15 people and forced the mission to
be scaled back drastically.


Foreign aid agencies hope one day to return, but in the meantime,
Hajaj was full of praise for her Iraqi colleagues: "One shouldn't
assume these programmes need international experts. What they do
need is better security.


"This is Iraq's campaign," Hajaj said, explaining that her agency
had from Jordan supplied transport, safety boxes for used needles
and cooling boxes for the teams, while maintaining a network of
contacts on the ground.


"It doesn't completely replace being in the country, but it gives
us a base, a foothold and eyes and ears to do the work that needs
to be done," she said.


In war-torn Baghdad, where many parents are nervous to travel too
far from their homes with their children, families appreciated
the door-to-door service provided by the immunisation teams.


"It is a good idea," said 40-year-old Ghanim Shano, carring his
infant daughter, one of around 80 immunised by the Karrada centre
in a single day.


Medical assistant Abbas Saeed said his team had received a warm
reception around the district: "People welcome us ... they even
bring us tea sometimes."


In fact, it seemed that sometimes the only people unhappy with
the situation are the screaming kids, such as three-year-old
neighbours Abdul Rahman and Zahraa Hussein, too young to
understand when confronted with the needle.

