

Britain called Tuesday for "clear rules and openness" with Russia
to help foster burgeoning trade and investment between the
countries while expressing concerns over the threat of economic
nationalism.


Trade minister Alistair Darling made the remarks at the annual
Russian Economic Forum, a showcase for Russian enterprise that
Russian officials and business chiefs have boycotted this year
amid growing political tensions.


"Open and liberalised markets are in both our and Russia's
business interests," said Darling, who recalled that Britain was
the largest foreign investor in Russia last year.


"We are committed to breaking down trade barriers," he added.


"Around the world we are seeing an increasing trend toward
protectionism, putting up barriers to trade that will make us
poorer. We are seeing the growth of economic nationalism. It
won't work," he warned.


During a visit to Moscow in February, Confederation of British
Industry (CBI) head Richard Lambert had said he hoped Russia
would "resist the temptation of opting for any perceived short-
term gains from economic nationalism."


Darling strongly backed Russia's entry into the World Trade
Organisation (WTO).


"The WTO talks are now reaching a crucial stage. We will do
everything we can to ensure they succeed," Darling said. "For
while the rewards of success are immense, the price of failure
would be disastrous."


"And WTO membership remains a vital step in diversifying the
Russian economy and attracting new trade and investment," he
said.


British investment in Russia was 5.5 billion dollars in 2006,
making it the largest foreign investor, he said.


"The business relationship between the UK (United Kingdom) and
Russia is a robust one," he said.


"But it is one that needs clear rules, openness, and
understanding on both sides," Darling told the 10th annual
Russian Economic Forum.


"Where there are disagreements, we should talk about them and get
them sorted out," Darling said.


Russian officials and business chiefs have boycotted the forum.
The reasons were not explained officially but Russian
commentators link it to Britain's refusal to extradite Russian
businessman and Kremlin critic Boris Berezovsky.

