

A top radical Islamist leader in Morocco who was arrested last
month after five years on the run recruited 18 youths in
Casablanca to join insurgents in Iraq, police sources said
Tuesday.


"Saad Houssaini, 38, also known as Mustapha, has been active in
the network tasked with recruiting young Moroccans convinced by
Salafist and Jihadist ideas to go and fight in Iraq," according
to a copy of the transcript of his questioning by police obtained
by AFP.


The young recruits come from the poor neighborhoods of the
Moroccan economic capital, the police transcript said, explaining
that "they are recruited to conduct terrorist operations against
innocent civilians in Iraq."


According to police, Houssaini said he had been contacted via the
Internet by a man in Iraq "who told me how the volunteers travel
via Istanbul and Syria," where the volunteer fighters "would join
the resistance."


Houssaini was arrested on March 8, part of an ongoing operation
by Moroccan security services which since 2006 has dismantled
some 11 networks for recruiting fighters for Iraq.


Houssanini, who comes from Meknes about 120 kilometers (75 miles)
east of Rabat, is the son of an Arab language professor and holds
a degree in chemistry.


His involvement in radical Islamist movements goes back to the
1990s when he helped found the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group
(GICM), and then headed in 1997 to the Al-Qaeda training camps in
Afghanistan.


"In the camps, members of the GICM, close to Al-Qaeda, received
instruction on how to launch a direct confrontation with Moroccan
authorities with the aim of creating an Islamic revolution like
the Taliban regime," he told police.


While in Afghanistan, Houssanini said he attended a meeting with
Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden and number two Ayman al-Zawahiri
and made contact with Islamist militant groups from Libya and
Egypt.


He also met up with Mohamed El Garbouzi, alias Abou Issa, a
Briton of Moroccan descent, who was sentenced in absentia to 20
years in prison in Morocco in connection with the 2003 attacks in
Casablanca that killed 33 people.


After the fall of the Taliban regime in 2002, Houssanini said he
returned to Morocco where his group had to get arms from the Al-
Qaeda-linked Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) in
Algeria to supply fighters in the Atlas Mountains.


Houssaini is being held in prison in Sale, near Rabat, and no
date has been set yet for his trial. He is also suspected of
having given financial assistance to families whose sons went off
to fight in Iraq.

