

Japan's Nikko Cordial Corp. said Tuesday that its net profit
slumped by 11.2 percent in the year to March, hit by a fraud
scandal at the securities firm, which US giant Citigroup is
trying to buy.


Japan's third-largest brokerage house said its full-year net
earnings fell to 78.1 billion yen (660 million dollars) from 88.0
billion a year earlier, even though its sales rose 8.5 percent to
516.6 billion yen.


Operating profit dropped 28.4 percent to 99.0 billion yen because
of increased sales costs, losses on the devaluation of securities
and the cost of correcting past financial statements, it said.


"Our investment management banking business was most severely
affected by the scandal," chief financial officer Osamu Morita
told reporters.


"But thanks to warm support from our customers, the negative
impact on the earnings report is limited," he added.


"We deeply apologise to our customers and those who were affected
by the scandal. We will do our utmost to restore confidence," he
said.


Morita said Nikko Cordial regarded Citigroup as the best partner
to help it to recover from the scandal.


Citigroup launched a 13.4-billion-dollar takeover bid for Nikko
Cordial last month, aiming to take majority control of the
Japanese company under a deal approved by the boards of the two
firms.


The tender offer of 1,700 yen per Nikko Cordial share expires on
Thursday.


Nikko Cordial admitted last December to having falsified its
financial statements for the fiscal years that ended in March
2005 and March 2006, inflating its profits by 21 billion yen.


A panel of outside experts tapped by Nikko reported in January
that former executives had been "actively involved" in the
systematic violation of laws.


Japan's financial authority imposed its largest-ever fine of 500
million yen on Nikko Cordial in early January for issuing the
false earnings report.


The securities firm said Monday that it had filed a multi-
million-dollar lawsuit against three former executives over the
fraud scandal.


Nikko Cordial gave no forecasts for the current year to March
2008.

