

Turkey's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, expected to be elected
president in May, called Tuesday for respect for the Islamic
headscarf that his wife wears and stressed commitment to the
mainly Muslim nation's secular system.


Turkey's army-backed secularist establishment is mistrustful of
the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), to which Gul
belongs, because of its Islamist roots.


It hates the prospect of the headscarf, which it sees as a symbol
of political Islam, ascending to the presidential palace.


"The headscarf is a personal choice and everyone should respect
it," Gul told reporters when asked whether his wife Hayrunisa's
headscarf might create tensions when he becomes president.


"In democracies, everyone has individual rights and freedoms. If
you see it (the headscarf) as such, the problem will be
resolved."


Gul was speaking shortly after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan announced him as the AKP candidate for the presidential
elections, ending widespread expectations that he himself would
run.


The 56-year-old is virtually certain to become president thanks
to the comfortable majority that the AKP holds in the 550-member
parliament, where the president is elected. Opposition parties
have not fielded candidates.


"Turkey is a democratic, secular, social state based on the rule
of law. If I am elected president, no-one should have doubts that
I will abide by these principles," Gul said.


"Different political convictions and different cultural
identities are natural in democracies. These are actually our
riches."


The Islamic headscarf is banned in government offices and
universities in Turkey.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a hardline secularist,
refused to invite veiled women to receptions at the presidential
palace, thus snubbing most AKP wives, including that of the prime
minister.


Gul's wife had filed an application with the European Court of
Human Rights for being denied the right to enroll in university
because of her headscarf, but withdrew it after her husband
became a minister in 2002.


The first round in the presidential election is scheduled for
Friday, the second for May 2, the third for May 9 and the fourth
for May 15.

