

The Dalai Lama's choice as Tibet's second most important
spiritual figure turns 18 on Wednesday after almost 13 years in
Chinese custody amid signs of worsening repression there, a
rights group said.


The group, the Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet,
describes in a report due Wednesday what it says is a trend of
tightening Chinese control over religious practice and
scholarship in Tibet.


China immediately expressed its "indignation" over the report,
calling the accusations "groundless".


According to Mary Beth Markey, vice president of the rights
group, the report is based on official Chinese documents and
interviews with lamas, monks and nuns.


"The Chinese government documents on the conduct of religion in
Tibet, brought out in this report, indicate how seriously Beijing
takes the enduring influence of the Dalai Lama," Markey said in a
statement.


Beijing is determined to ensure that future Tibetan religious
leaders, including top Buddhist lamas, are loyal to China's
atheistic communist government, the statement said.


Nothing better symbolises this drive than the plight of a boy
recognised by the Dalai Lama in 1994 as the reincarnated Panchen
Lama, Tibet's second-most important religious leader, according
to the campaign.


Gendun Choekyi Nyima, who turns 18 on Wednesday, "disappeared"
with his parents at the age of six after he was recognised by the
Dalai Lama, who is Tibet's top religious figure, as the 11th
Panchen Lama, the group said.


His whereabouts since then are unknown, and Beijing selected
another boy -- largely raised and educated in Beijing -- for the
role.


"Control over the Panchen Lama is perceived by Beijing to be
essential as previous Panchen Lamas have played a role in the
recognition and education of Dalai Lamas, and vice versa," the
statement said.


China wants to control the Tibetan religious authorities
"necessary for the transmission of teachings and the
identification of reincarnate lamas," the statement said.


Beijing is also instilling patriotic Chinese education in Tibetan
religious institutes and undermining traditional monastic
education, it added.


"These accusations that China is engaging in religious
persecution are totally groundless and have turned the facts
upside down," foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said
Tuesday at a regular briefing.


"We are extremely dissatisfied with this and express our
indignation."


Liu added Gendun Choekyi Nyima was living a "normal" life and was
not under police surveillance.


"This child ... he is coming of age, and like any other ordinary
child in China, he is living a normal unfettered life and he is
living a kind of free life," Liu said, but refused to disclose
where he was.


China sent troops in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951. The Dalai Lama
later fled to India in 1959 after a failed uprising and
established a government-in-exile in Dharamsala.

