

Newmont executive Richard Ness called on Indonesia Tuesday to
prosecute those who fuelled false claims that the US mining giant
poisoned a local bay with toxic waste.


Ness welcomed a decision from Indonesian judges to clear him and
the firm of pollution charges, saying the verdict on Tuesday had
restored their reputation.


"I am thrilled that after two and a half years of false
allegations, my name and that of my fellow employees have been
cleared and our reputation restored," Ness said in a statement.


But he described as criminal those who pushed claims that Newmont
polluted Buyat Bay on Sulawesi island with toxic waste from its
now defunct gold mine.


The claims, made in 2004, led to a police investigation and
charges against Newmont's local subsidiary and Ness, who faced
three years in jail if convicted.


"I have lived in Indonesia for more than 25 years, this is my
home, and I am delighted to see justice and truth prevail," he
said.


"The question remains shouldn't the perpetrators of this hoax be
brought to justice for the sake of the Buyat Bay community who
suffered at the hands of these people?"


He said villagers living around Buyat Bay had been deceived into
believing that Newmont had polluted their water with mercury and
arsenic contained in waste from the north Sulawesi mine, which
closed in 2004.


The villagers were split between those who supported Newmont and
those who thought the company was behind their illnesses.


"I do feel that there was a crime committed and many people in
the community suffered because of that crime," Ness told
reporters in Manado separately.


His office later declined to say who should be held responsible,
and that Ness was not blaming any villagers.


The high-profile case pitted environmentalists against miners in
the resource- rich nation.


Villagers living around the bay have complained over recent years
of headaches, skin rashes and tumours, which they blamed on the
mine's tailings.


But studies of the water around the bay have given conflicting
results.


A World Health Organisation-backed report, and other
investigations, found no evidence of pollution, but government
tests showed high levels of toxins.


Five judges said Tuesday that insufficient evidence was presented
during the 20-month trial to find Newmont guilty of pollution.

