

With its neatly clipped hedges and high iron gates, the White
House building where Boris Yeltsin faced down a coup in 1991
bears little trace of a drama of the landmark event in modern
Russian history.


Overlooking a sprawling road junction by the Moskva River, the
building that was the backdrop to the birth of a new Russia is no
longer home to the country's parliament. It is now the well-
guarded headquarters of a cabinet firmly under Kremlin control.


On Tuesday there was no hint of nostalgia for billboard
maintenance man Mikhail Lobanov, as he and a workmate replaced an
advertising hoarding on a traffic island and recalled how Yeltsin
climbed atop a tank, defying Communist plotters bent on restoring
the Soviet Union.


Yeltsin died of heart failure on Monday and is to be buried with
state honours on Wednesday.


"Everyone says Russia became free but there's no freedom. Only
those with money are free," said Lobanov, dressed in neat blue
uniform, before going on to recall Yeltsin's fondness for drink,
a source of shame for many Russians.


"Of course it was bad when the world saw how he drank," he said.


Nor was there much affection from local resident Sergei Idrisov,
as he recalled how tanks once stood where the streets are now
jammed with foreign-made cars, many of them bearing the blue
flashing lights popular among the elite.


"I was six and my mum wouldn't let me out of the house. Our
parents said there was a war going on," said Idrisov, 23, now an
electrician.


"What is there to be sorry about? All politicians steal, then and
now. Yeltsin was a drunk," he said.


Anastasiya Petrova, a 30-year-old secretary, struggled to put her
finger on Yeltsin's legacy, as police cleared all traffic from
the eight-lane highway for President Vladimir Putin's vast
motorcade, just then rolling into town.


Yeltsin "was unique. He achieved a lot," she said hesitantly,
before exclaiming, a touch ironically, "Look at this beauty!"


It was Putin's motorcade streaming by, a riot of blue and red
flashing lights atop the latest German automotive technology.


Others were philosophical about Yeltsin, among them Alexei
Pryakhin, who was fishing on the embankment, in a break from
looking after his three children and his part-time job as an
importer of Chinese goods.


"Yeltsin made a start even if he made mistakes. At least he
broadened the opportunities for trade. People started to take
responsibility for themselves," said the 33-year-old. "If we'd
had a Communist parliament it would have been worse."


There were few complaints either on the part of another passerby,
a 40-year-old civil servant also named Mikhail, as he wandered
with a female companion through a nearby luxury goods mall, the
sounds of a pianist soothing away the cares of the few people
inside.


Yeltsin "was a strong personality and every strong personality
has weaknesses," he said, a mobile phone earpiece clipped to his
head.


Russia, he acknowledged, might not have the full democracy that
Yeltsin fought for in those early years. But, he said, "every
country has its own form of democracy."


"Yeltsin did all that he could," he said, before reflecting that
Russia's position is now greatly changed in a world hungry for
its vast energy resources.


"Now of course the oil price has gone up," he grinned.

