

Astronomers reported on Wednesday they had discovered a "super-
Earth" more than 20 light years away that is the most intriguing
world found so far in the search for extraterrestrial life.


About five times the size of Earth, the planet orbits a cool, dim
"red dwarf" star located in the constellation of Libra, the team
from the European Southern Observatory (ESO) said in a press
release.


The star, Gliese 581, has already been identified as hosting a
planet similar in size to Neptune, the frigid gas giant on the
edge of our own Solar System.


The new planet is 14 times closer to Gliese 581 than the Earth is
to the Sun. But because Gliese 581 is so cool, the planet is not
scorched by solar radiation. It zips around the star at express
speed, making just 13 days to complete an orbit.


"We have estimated that the mean temperature of this super-Earth
lies between 0 and 40 degrees Celsius (32 and 104 degrees
Fahrenheit), and water would thus be liquid," said lead
researcher Stephane Udry of Switzerland's Geneva University.


"Moreover, its radius should be only 1.5 times the Earth's
radius, and models predict that the planet should be either rocky
-- like our Earth -- or covered with oceans."


"Liquid water is critical to life as we know it," said Xavier
Delfosse, a team member from France's Grenoble University.


"Because of its temperature and relative proximity, this planet
will most probably be a very important target of the future space
missions dedicated to the search for extra terrestrial life.


He added: "On the treasure map of the Universe, one would be
tempted to mark this planet with an X."


In 1995, two astronomers, also at Geneva, spotted the first
extrasolar planet, a term for a planet orbiting a star other than
our own. Since then, 227 such planets have been been spotted,
according to the Extrasolar Planets Encyclopaedia
(http://exoplanet.eu/).


Gliese 581 is among the 100 closest stars to us. Its "red dwarf"
monicker comes from the fact that it is only one-third of the
mass of the Sun.


Because such stars emit far less heat, they offer a far greater
chance of having planets in the so-called Goldilocks zone where
liquid water -- and thus the potential for life -- can exist.


The search for extrasolar planets has thrown up very few
potential home-from- homes.


The finds are typically uninhabitable, gassy giant planets,
rather than small rocky ones. Or they orbit so close to their
star that their atmosphere is stripped away by solar radiation
or, alternatively, at such a distance that they are ice balls.


Two years ago, the same ESO team found a Neptune-sized planet
around Gliese 581, and their observations that time gave them a
hint that a smaller planet, closer to Earth in size, might also
encircle the star.


Not only did they find the "super-Earth", they also found
indications of another planet, eight times the size of Earth,
that completes an orbit in 84 days -- a discovery that makes
Gliese 581 "quite a remarkable system," ESO said.


The discovery is being reported in the journal Astronomy and
Astrophysics.


It came thanks to a highly sensitive instrument at ESO's facility
at Silla, Chile.


The detection technique works by measuring the so-called radial
velocity of the star.


A planet orbiting around a star produces changes in the star's
position relative to Earth. This causes a measurable "wobble" in
the starlight, from which the orbiting object and its size can be
inferred.


Even though Gliese 581 offers such promise, it would be
impossible for mankind to reach it -- or even send an unmanned
scout probe -- using current technology. Chemical rockets
generate only a fraction of the light speed needed to get there
within a human timescale.

