

Afghan and foreign forces killed 18 rebel fighters in fresh
attacks across Afghanistan, officials said, while police said
they had trapped scores of Taliban in a village in the south.


Troops have in the past weeks stepped up efforts against the
Taliban movement, which has vowed an increase of violence in an
insurgency that last year was at its deadliest since the
extremists' government fell in 2001.


Afghan and NATO soldiers set up an ambush for rebel fighters in
the early hours of Tuesday in the southern province of Zabul, one
of the worst-hit by insurgent violence, General Rahmatullah Raufi
told AFP.


"In the resulting exchange of fire, 11 Taliban were killed and
some weapons were confiscated by the Afghan forces. There have
been no casualties among Afghan forces," Raufi said.


Five more "enemy elements" were killed in the northeastern
province of Kunar Tuesday in an operation by troops from the
Afghan security forces and US-led coalition, provincial counter-
terrorism director Abdul Mateen said.


"We have the five bodies and their weapons," he said.


In the western province of Farah security forces killed two more
Taliban late Monday in clashes in Bakwa district which has this
year seen a surge in attacks, regional police chief General
Ekramuddin Yawar said.


In Uruzgan province meanwhile, police said they were surrounding
for a third day what they believed to be about 200 Taliban
fighters, including some top leaders.


They had seized weapons and two vehicles from the village in
Chora district and blown up one which was filled with explosives,
provincial police chief General Mohammad Qasim told AFP.


They had also arrested a senior regional Taliban commander, a
statement said.


The rebel group had assembled in the area for a meeting and some
reports suggested that the Taliban military operations commander
in the south, Mullah Dadullah, was among them, Qasim said.


A Taliban spokesman told the Pahjwok Afghan News agency that
Dadullah was not involved but admitted some of the movement's men
were trapped.


"I can confirm that we have reports of around 200 Taliban being
surrounded in Uruzgan for three days," interior ministry
spokesman Zemarai Bashary said in Kabul.


"We have tightened the circle around them," said Qasim, the
police chief. "We are cautious and do not use military means
since the area is a civilian residential area and military
operations may cause civilian casualties."


Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs Abdul Hadi Khalid
reportedly told the upper house of parliament Monday that the
militants were running low on ammunition.


"If they failed to surrender, we will go on to arrest them," he
said, according to a report by the Pahjwok agency.


The Taliban movement -- which consists of hardcore fighters who
follow an extremist, anti-Western ideology as well as mercenaries
-- has killed hundreds of civilians and troops this year in its
campaign against the government.


The Al-Qaeda-supported group was in power from 1996 to 2001, when
it was ousted by a US-led coalition.

