

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates arrived in Warsaw Tuesday for
talks aimed at winning over Polish leaders to the Pentagon's plan
to house missiles in Poland as part of a controversial US defence
shield.


On the second stop of a European visit focused on persuading wary
Europeans of the merits of the US missile defence system, Gates
flew into Warsaw from Moscow, where he had tried, apparently with
little success, to soften Russian opposition to the plan.


Russian leaders on Monday rebuffed a US offer to cooperate
closely with Moscow on missile defence, saying Washington's plans
to extend its missiles shield into central Europe were "seriously
destabilizing."


The United States wants to station 10 interceptor missiles in
Poland and a targeting radar in the Czech Republic by 2012 to
counter what it sees as Iranian efforts to develop nuclear
weapons and the missiles to deliver them.


A similar system has already been deployed in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, but the plan to expand the system into
Russia's backyard has antagonized Moscow.


The plan has also unsettled some US allies and failed to win
broad public acceptence in Poland or the Czech Republic, although
the governments of both former communist countries have said they
are in favour of the plan.


A poll published Monday by the CBOS agency found that six out of
10 Poles oppose basing US defensive missiles in Poland, while
only 25 percent were in favor.


Gates was due to hold talks here with President Lech Kaczynski
and Defence Minister Alexander Szczyglo.


Poland's conservative government, led by the president's twin
brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has signaled its
willingness to host the base, but formal talks between Washington
and Warsaw have not yet begun.


Officials traveling with Gates said they were not taking Polish
and Czech agreement on missile defence for granted, and Gates'
visit was part of a broader diplomatic push to explain US aims.


"We understand that since it is an issue in Poland, they have to
have a democratic debate," said a senior US administration
official traveling with Gates.


"We want to make sure we contribute to an informed political
debate and make sure all the different parties in the parliament
as well as the government understand why we want to make this
deployment," he said.


"This is just the beginning of a debate and a discussion, and we
shouldn't prejudge how it is going to come out," he added.


Gates is scheduled to meet with German leaders in Berlin on
Wedesday before returning to Washington.


Despite the Russian rebuff, Gates said he was "cautiously
optimistic" after his talks Monday with Russian President
Vladimir Putin, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov and
Defence Minister Anatoly Serduykov.


He also met Tuesday with Igor Ivanov, head of the Russian
national security council.


"I think we are beginning to get down to specific issues of
concern to Russia, and I believe the experts will clear up any
misunderstandings as well as address Russian concerns," Gates
told reporters.


Gates said the United States has presented the Russians with the
most detailed proposal yet for cooperation "across the full
spectrum of missile defence activities."


He said the two countries could explore new concepts and
technologies, conduct joint research and development of missile
defence systems, share missile early warning data, and improve
their forces' ability to operate together on missile defence.


He said he invited the Russians to inspect the US missile defence
site at Fort Greely, Alaska, and a radar in California that is
similar to the one proposed for the Czech Republic.


"We would like to have the Russians as partners in this process.
We would like to share information with them, we are prepared to
co-locate radars with them. We think there are some real
opportunities here for both sides," he said.

