

Heavy shelling and tank fire shook the Somali capital for a
seventh day Tuesday, killing at least three, as Ethiopian troops
stepped up their campaign to drive out Islamist insurgents.


After a night of sporadic gunfire, Ethiopian tanks pounded
positions in northern and southern Mogadishu in a bid to weaken
the insurgent fighters, whose grip on the capital has prevented
the Somali interim government from functioning.


At least three people were killed and six others wounded when a
mortar crashed into a concrete building sheltering around 20
people in Tawfiq in southern Mogadishu, witnesses said.


"We were hiding in the house in Tawfiq when a mortar shell landed
and killed three people, one of them my elder brother," said
resident Hassan Yayhe, adding that six others were injured.


"We do not know where to take the wounded because we cannot
venture outside the building as there are stray bullets and
mortar shells flying around the area," said Weli Mohamed, who was
also in the house.


An AFP correspondent reported heavy shelling around the fortified
presidential palace, guarded by Ethiopian troops and African
Union peacekeepers, and in Fagah, northern Mogadishu.


"The fighting is continuing," said Yusuf Hassan, a Fagah
resident. "We are hiding ourselves inside buildings, but heavy
shells are destroying everything."


A resident of southern Al Kamin neighbourhood said he heard gun
battles early Tuesday.


"I saw Ethiopian tanks and trucks taking positions this morning.
So far, there was some exchange of fire here," said Ali Hussein.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed government oust
Islamists from the country's south and central regions at the
start of the year.


But since then fighting has steadily grown worse.


Mutilated bodies on Tuesday lay rotting in the streets in
northern Mogadishu, with fighting blocking access for aid
workers.


At least 256 people have died and hundreds have been wounded
since the latest peak in fighting began last week, according to
the Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation, which monitors
casualty rates.


Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with doctors appealing for extra
medical supplies.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but elders
told AFP that the figure could now be closer to 400,000 with the
exodus of thousands more over the past six days.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Monday urged an end to deadly
battles between insurgents, some of whom are allegedly linked to
Al-Qaeda, and the Somali government-allied Ethiopian troops.


The US State Department's top Africa official, Assistant
Secretary of State Jendaye Frazer, also called for renewed
ceasefire talks to end the deadliest clashes in the Somali
capital since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

