

China's rapid beefing up of its military might should give it the
edge over Taiwan for the first time by 2010, Jane's Defence
Weekly said Tuesday.


China announced last month a 17.8-percent rise in military
spending to 45 billion dollars for this year -- a boost aimed at
making its forces capable of a quick, decisive invasion of Taiwan
while deterring US intervention, the authoritative magazine said.


"China is working hard to transform its Vietnam War-era defence
establishment into a credible regional military power with a new
generation of indigenous equipment, designed to thwart more
advanced adversaries," said Jane's.


The People's Liberation Army (PLA) is now shifting into a high
gear, through continuing to import Russian weapons, improving
training and increasing its professionalism, it added.


"The centrepiece of this offensive capability is the PLA's potent
missile force with the modernisation drive likely to allow the
PLA to gain the upper hand in the military balance against Taiwan
for the first time by the end of this decade," the magazine said.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated in recent years.
China considers Taiwan part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


China's air force, navy and strategic missile forces head the
queue in equipment funding priorities, while the once-dominant
ground forces lag well behind, Jane's said.


While Chinese defence chiefs worry about the United States
deepening its security ties with regional allies, the PLA is
strengthening its links with Russia through arms sales and
military exercises, said Jane's.


"Chinese acquisitions of Russian arms have also continued, with
the next significant deal in the pipeline the Chinese acquisition
of Sukhoi Su-33 multi- role fighter aircraft: a carrier version
of the Su-27 fighter," it said.


"The two sides are reportedly in advanced negotiations over the
deal and there is speculation that the PLA Naval Air Force is
considering establishing a combat air wing to be deployed on a
future aircraft carrier.


"The two countries are holding a second bilateral military
exercise in Russia in July, in which China will reportedly send
its F-10 fighter aircraft to participate for the first time."


Jane's added that the PLA Air Force was modernising its "aging"
frontline arsenal as new generations of combat, surveillance and
airborne early warning and command aircraft roll off the
production lines from China's revitalised aviation industry.

