

Flying different aircraft is "not as easy as changing cars," the
Singapore Airlines (SIA) pilots' union told an arbitration court
Tuesday.


The court is hearing a dispute between the airline and its pilots
over how much they should be paid for flying the double-decker
Airbus A380, the world's biggest commercial jetliner.


The Air Line Pilots Association of Singapore (ALPA-S), which
represents 90 percent of SIA's pilots, on Tuesday began
presenting its case before the Industrial Arbitration Court.


"Let us assure you, contrary to what the company asserts, it is
NOT as easy as changing cars," Captain P. James, president of
ALPA-S, told the court.


When the hearing began on Monday, Captain Robert Ting, vice-
president of SIA's Flight Operations Division, told the court
physical differences between the A380 and the Boeing 777-300 and
747-400 would have little impact on piloting due to similarities
in system technologies, cockpit layout and instrumentation.


While the A380 is heavier than other Airbus and Boeing jets, the
weight difference is managed by a high level of automation and
other aerospace technologies, he said.


"The advancement in technology in any field has never been used
as a basis of quantifying the salary of a person," James
responded, calling the airline's argument "sheer absurdity".


He said a pilot has to undergo conversion courses for each
aircraft type he is to fly.


"If the aircraft were as similar as the company has made them out
to be, this pilot would only have to do one course, and he would
be able to fly all aircraft," James said.


SIA wants to peg the salary of pilots flying the A380 to those of
pilots handling the Boeing B777, Loh Oun Hean, SIA divisional
vice president of industrial relations, told court on Monday.


James said salary is determined by market forces of supply and
demand, and by the responsibility placed upon the pilot.


The A380 can carry 555 passengers in a standard three-class
layout.


The monthly salary range of pilots flying B777 aircraft is
between 9,300 and 15,300 Singapore dollars (6,159 to 10,132 US),
Loh said.


SIA, one of the world's most profitable airlines, is set to be
the first carrier globally to receive the A380 super jumbo in
October after a series of delays blamed on wiring problems pushed
back delivery from earlier last year.


The airline has committed to buy 19 of the A380s.


Loh told the court Tuesday that SIA pilots are among the best
paid when compared with 10 major airlines including Lufthansa,
Cathay Pacific and Qantas in a 2006 study.


He said SIA intends to "work towards a common salary range" for
pilots across its fleet, to allow more flexibility in deployment
of pilots.


The pilots' union is expected to present its case in more detail
on Wednesday.


ALPA-S, with about 1,700 members, has long been regarded as the
only workers' group in Singapore willing to stand up to the
government, which has kept a tight rein on industrial action.


Five days have been scheduled for hearing the arbitration case
this week.

