

A consortium led by US private equity group KKR was left
unchallenged on Tuesday in its quest to take over Alliance Boots,
Europe's biggest pharmacy chain, after a rival British bidder
withdrew its bid.


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts raised its cash offer by 4.5 percent on
Tuesday to 11.0 billion pounds (16.2 billion euros, 22.0 billion
dollars), which the board of Alliance Boots then recommended to
shareholders.


Later, the rival British consortium comprising private equity
group Terra Firma, medical charity Wellcome Trust and British
bank HBOS said it had "decided to withdraw its potential interest
in acquiring Alliance Boots."


A takeover by KKR would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm. It would also make Alliance Boots the first
company to fall into private hands while being listed on London's
prestigious FTSE 100 share index.


KKR is joined in its bid by the executive deputy chairman of
Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina.


Alliance Boots, which was created last year by the British merger
of pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots, saw its share price fall on news that the bidding war had
ended.


In afternoon trade, Alliance Boots fell 0.44 percent to 1,121.50
pence on London's FTSE 100 index. KKR's new offer was priced at
1,139 pence per Alliance Boots share.


Earlier Tuesday, KKR's takeover vehicle, AB Acquisitions, said
that it owned 25.0 percent of Alliance Boots after purchasing
49.7 million additional shares in the group.


The cross-Atlantic bidding war for Alliance Boots had erupted on
Friday, as the rival private equity groups each launched cash
bids approaching 11.0 billion pounds.


Alliance Boots Friday accepted KKR's bid of 10.6 billion poundsm,
but then received a higher bid from Terra Firma worth 10.78
billion pounds.


Terra Firma had been joined in its bid by the Wellcome Trust and
HBOS.


In its withdrawal statement Tuesday, the consortium said it was
"naturally disappointed" by the outcome.


"However, we are pleased that the shareholders of Alliance Boots
have received a significantly higher price due to our interests,
and we wish the company and all its stakeholders well under new
ownership," it added.


KKR had two previous bids for Alliance Boots, worth 1,040 and
1,000 pence per share, turned down in March.


The private equity sector consists mainly of investment funds or
banks that buy stakes in non-listed companies which are then
generally broken up and sold for a profit.


Private equity groups also target listed companies which are then
withdrawn from the stock market.


Some leading finance officials have warned of the risk associated
with private equity groups that borrow huge amounts of money
through the company being acquired to help fund the deals.


Trade unions, meanwhile, claim that workers face increased risks
of redundancy.


Alliance Boots has 2,600 healthcare outlets, which include 1,500
community pharmacies. The combined group has more than 100,000
employees.


Internationally, Alliance Boots operates around 550 pharmacies in
Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Switzerland and
Thailand.


Alliance Boots is currently undergoing a three-year restructuring
programme costing 250 million pounds that will also result in
2,250 jobs being axed.

