

Malaysian police said Tuesday they were intensifying security
amid tense campaigning for a by-election seen as a key test for
the opposition ahead of general elections expected before 2009.


The rural seat of Ijok in the western state of Selangor goes to
the polls Saturday following the death earlier this month of the
incumbent lawmaker from the ruling National Front coalition.


Selangor police chief Ismail Omar said more security measures
were needed to control what he said were highly-charged emotions
of supporters on both sides ahead of the election.


He said about 1,000 extra officers would be sent to support the
district's police force.


"We hope that supporters on both sides will use their good sense
and maturity. They are the key elements that would ensure the
election is carried out without any riots," Ismail told AFP.


"Everything has been under control in the last 24 hours. There
have been no incidents reported," he added.


All entry and exit points in Ijok town had already been secured
with roadblocks, he said.


Scuffles broke out in Ijok last Thursday between hundreds of
rival supporters of the National Front (Barisan Nasional) and the
opposition People's Justice Party (Keadilan) during the
nomination of candidates.


Both sides see Saturday's vote as a key test ahead of general
elections expected before 2009.


In another incident last Friday, the Justice Party's candidate
Khalid Ibrahim was threatened by a group of BN supporters,
according to prominent blogger and freelance photographer Jeff
Ooi.


"One of them started probing Khalid with intimidating questions.
We got out of there and into our car but we were already
surrounded by 20 of them," said Ooi, who was with Khalid.


Ooi said one of the supporters hit a fellow photographer also in
the car in the face with a broken plastic water bottle, while
others threatened to break both their cameras.


Rights group Suaram Tuesday condemned the violence and criticised
what it said was uneven treatment of opposition party supporters
by police, accusing them of stopping a Justice Party rally on
Monday.


"While the police have failed to act against the intimidators,
they have, on the other hand, been swift when it came to stopping
the opposition from campaigning," it said.

