

French police are to question several executives at the European
Aeronautics Defence and Space Company this week over suspected
insider trading a year ago, a source close to the matter said on
Tuesday.


The investigation centres on a period shortly before EADS
surprised the stock market, and customers, with revelations that
it faced serious problems in production of its star product, the
Airbus A380 superjumbo airliner.


The announcement caused a crisis at EADS which controls aircraft
maker Airbus, sparked boardroom upheavals, and controversy over
the sale of shares in preceding months by big shareholders and of
stock options by top executives.


The crisis has led to a rescue plan involving the loss of 10,000
jobs.


The Internet site of monthly business publication Capital said
that the executives had been called in for questioning by police
specialising in financial crime.


The police were acting on instructions from two investigating
judges, Philippe Courroye and Xaviere Simeoni.


The Paris prosecutor opened an investigation on November 20, on a
complaint from an individual shareholder, into suspected insider
trading, the publication of false information and the receiving
of stolen goods with regard to EADS shares.


Insider trading is the misuse by people inside a company of
privileged information for financial gain.


In December, investigators raided the headquarters in France of
EADS and of one of the main shareholders, the French industrial
and media group Lagardere.


The investigation arises from allegations that several senior
executives with the EADS group sold shares before the price of
EADS stock fell sharply.


Among those targeted by the allegations are the former joint
executive chairman Noel Forgeard, the head of EADS Space Francois
Auque and managing director Jean- Paul Gut.


It is alleged that they sold shares on the privileged knowledge
that a few weeks later the group would announce delays in
deliveries of the A380 and that this would drive down the shares.


In the middle of June 2006, the day after new delays for the A380
were announced, the price of EADS stock crashed by 26 percent in
a single day.


The previous month, Forgeard had sold 162,000 euros, generating a
capital gain of 2.5 million euros. Gut sold 75,000 shares for a
gain on 1.15 million euros.


The enquiry also covers the Lagardere group because, together
with another main shareholder, DaimlerChrysler of Germany, it had
announced in April the sale of part of its holding in EADS.


Forgeard has denied any wrongdoing, stressing that his sale of
shares had been registered openly; and the Lagardere group said
at the time that it had sold shares in good faith, even though
this implied incompetence in being inadequately informed of
problems at Airbus.

