

China has delayed releasing a long-awaited plan for dealing with
climate change, an official said Tuesday, amid reports that
various levels of government remain divided over the issue.


"The release of the National Plan on Climate Change has been
postponed, it was supposed to be released... today," Xu Huaqing,
director of the National Development and Reform Commission's
energy research institute, told AFP.


Xu, who was a co-author of the report, said it aims to discuss
how China should deal with climate-changing greenhouse gases over
the next five years.


He refused to speculate on when the report would be published, or
say why it had been postponed.


Many inside and outside of China are waiting anxiously for the
report as it is expected to be the nation's first major policy
document focused on tackling climate change.


According to Yang Ailun, an expert on climate change at
Greenpeace China, the delay of the report was decided in a
closed-door meeting at the reform commission, China's economic
planning agency, last week.


"Greenpeace China regrets this postponement and urges the
government to issue the report in a timely manner," she said.


"It was supposed to be an overarching document, very general, so
I don't know why they postponed it."


Chinese environment campaigners familiar with the process said
the delay was due to wrangling among officials over the impacts
the planned measures to curb greenhouse gases may have on
economic growth.


"We think there is still a disparity between the central and
local governments," said Jin Jiaman, executive director of the
Beijing-based non-government organisation Global Environmental
Institute.


"Local authorities think more about economic development but the
central government is thinking more about environmental
protection."


Another environmental campaigner, who did not want to be named,
also said there was still much debate about how to limit the
economic impacts.


"There is a lot of mathematics going on right now," the
campaigner said.


China, which relies on coal for around 70 percent of its energy
needs, is set to overtake the United States as the world's
largest emitter of greenhouse gases over the next two to three
years.


As a signatory to the Kyoto protocol on climate change, China is
not required to cut greenhouse gas emissions due to its status as
a developing nation.


China has said previously it will not accept Kyoto-style curbs on
its greenhouse gas emissions, saying the responsibility rests
with the developed world.


But it has repeatedly acknowledged that climate change is a
problem that must be addressed, warning that related droughts,
storms and melting glaciers were already a threat to the nation.


China's former top meteorologist Qin Dahe told an international
meeting on global warming in Beijing on Monday that the nation's
glaciers were diminishing rapidly.


"Glaciers (in China) have been reduced by 25 percent in the past
350 years, (and with the current pace of melting) only half of
them will be left after 2050," said Qin, who co-chaired one of
the working groups of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change.


"Glaciers in China's west and on the Qinghai-Tibet plateau are
vital to the national economy and people's livelihoods (as) they
are the main water source for the Euro-Asian continent."


Qin said rising temperatures could also hurt China's grain
harvest and lead to food shortages, while millions of people
living in low lying areas near the sea could be inundated by
rising oceans caused by melting polar ice.

