

A court's acquittal of US mining giant Newmont of dumping toxic
waste would reassure companies operating here and may boost
Indonesia's drive to attract foreign investors, analysts said
Tuesday.


An Indonesian court cleared Newmont and one of its executives
Tuesday of pumping tonnes of toxic waste into a pristine bay from
its now defunct gold mine on Sulawesi island.


Prosecutors had wanted to jail executive Richard Ness for
allegedly allowing Newmont's Indonesian unit to dump the waste
containing mercury and arsenic into Buyat Bay, sickening
villagers and poisoning marine life.


Indonesia had risked efforts to improve its reputation as a safe
destination for foreign investment by prosecuting Newmont using
what many regarded as inconclusive evidence.


Fears in the business community mounted as the high-profile case,
which pitted environmentalists against miners, dragged on for 20
months.


But analysts said the verdict sent a signal to investors that
legal certainty existed in Indonesia.


"Investors will feel confident about the legal system in
Indonesia and this is particularly important," said Priyo
Pribadi, executive director of the Indonesian Mining Association.


"They will see that the system does not act based on public
opinion, but based on the realities," he said.


The decision could also help Indonesia's attempts to attract
billions of dollars in foreign investment to fuel its economy,
and take advantage of metal prices that have hit record levels.


Indonesia is rich in minerals, including gold, copper and tin,
and some of the world's largest miners, including Newmont and
Freeport-McMoRan, operate here. But its reputation for red tape,
corruption and uncertainty have steered some sector investors
away from the archipelago, analysts said.


"This is a precedent case and it sends a good signal to foreign
investors to bring their capital to Indonesia," said Lanang
Trihardian, economic analyst with Erdikha Elit.


But Pande Raja Silalahi, a senior economist with the Centre for
Strategic International Studies, a private think tank, cautioned
the signal could only be shortlived, as the legal process was far
from over.


Silalahi said prosecutors vowed after Tuesday's verdict to file
an appeal straight to Indonesia's highest court, the Supreme,
which acts independently of lower courts.


"This will still take a long time, " he said.


"The real impact will only be felt after a final legal verdict is
reached," Silalahi said.


The US embassy here, which sent an official to many of the
trial's 53 hearings in Manado on Sulawesi, welcomed the verdict
as having a "beneficial effect on Indonesian and foreign investor
confidence."


Newmont, which has been operating in Indonesia for more than a
decade, had warned it would reconsider its investments here if
Ness or the company were convicted.


The world's largest gold miner closed its operations near Buyat
Bay in 2004 after reserves were depleted.


It still operates, and has a 45 percent stake in, Batu Hijau mine
on remote Sumbawa island. That mine produced 205,700 tonnes of
copper last year.

