

The Dalai Lama's choice as Tibet's second most important
spiritual figure turns 18 on Wednesday after almost 13 years in
Chinese custody amid signs of worsening repression, a rights
group said.


The group, the Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet,
describes in a report due Wednesday what it claims is a trend of
tightening Chinese control over religious practice and
scholarship in Tibet.


The report is based on official Chinese documents and interviews
with lamas, monks and nuns, the vice president of the campaign,
Mary Beth Markey, said in a statement ahead of its release.


"The Chinese government documents on the conduct of religion in
Tibet, brought out in this report, indicate how seriously Beijing
takes the enduring influence of the Dalai Lama," Markey said.


Beijing is determined to ensure that future Tibetan religious
leaders, including top Buddhist lamas, are loyal to China's
atheistic communist government, the statement said.


Nothing better symbolises this drive than the plight of a boy
recognised by the Dalai Lama in 1994 as the reincarnated Panchen
Lama, Tibet's second-most important religious leader, according
to the campaign.


Gendun Choekyi Nyima, who turns 18 on Wednesday, "disappeared"
with his parents at the age of six after he was recognised by the
Dalai Lama, who is Tibet's top religious figure, as the 11th
Panchen Lama, the group said.


His whereabouts since then are unknown, and Beijing selected
another boy -- largely raised and educated in Beijing -- for the
role.


"Control over the Panchen Lama is perceived by Beijing to be
essential as previous Panchen Lamas have played a role in the
recognition and education of Dalai Lamas, and vice versa," the
statement said.


China wants to control the Tibetan religious authorities
"necessary for the transmission of teachings and the
identification of reincarnate lamas," the statement said.


Beijing is also instilling patriotic Chinese education in Tibetan
religious institutes and undermining traditional monastic
education, it added.


China sent troops in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951. The Dalai Lama
later fled to India in 1959 after an uprising failed and
established a government-in-exile in Dharamsala.

