

Most Muslims want US military forces out of the Middle East and
Islamic countries and many agree with Al-Qaeda's goals, if not
its tactics, suggested a public opinion poll conducted in Egypt,
Morocco, Pakistan and Indonesia.


"Most respondents have mixed feelings about Al-Qaeda," said a
statement of the study's findings, conducted by the Washington-
based nonprofit group WorldPublicOpinion.org and the University
of Maryland.


"Large majorities agree with many of its goals, but believe that
terrorist attacks on civilians are contrary to Islam."


An average of 74 percent of all those polled agreed with the goal
of "push(ing) the US to remove its bases and military forces from
all Islamic countries," said the poll.


A full 91 percent of Egyptians and 69 percent of Moroccans said
they approved of attacks against US soldiers in Iraq, while 61
percent of Indonesians disapproved. Pakistanis appeared divided
on the matter, with 31 percent for such attacks and 33 percent
against.


The survey found similar responses with regard to US forces in
Afghanistan and the Gulf.


At least 70 percent or more in all countries supported the goals
of "stand(ing) up to Americans and affirm(ing) the dignity of the
Islamic people," and "pressur(ing) the United States not to favor
Israel," it said.


Those polled were asked whether they thought certain ideas were
the goals of Al- Qaeda or groups inspired by the Osama bin Laden-
led militant network, and then were asked to what extent they
agreed or disagreed, somewhat or strongly, with those goals.


Most agreed that Al-Qaeda goals included requiring a strict
application of Islamic, or sharia, law in every Islamic country,
pushing US military forces out of all Islamic countries, and
keeping Western values out of Islamic countries -- and most were
supportive of those aims.


Asked about Al-Qaeda's attitudes and tactics in general, 25
percent of Egyptians and 15 percent of Indonesians said they
"support Al-Qaeda's attacks on Americans and share its attitudes
toward the US," along with nine percent of Moroccans and 10
percent of Pakistanis.


Nearly one third of those polled in Egypt and Morocco said they
agreed with "many of" Al-Qaeda's attitudes toward the United
States but "oppose Al-Qaeda's attacks on Americans." Twenty-four
percent in Indonesia and six percent in Pakistan took this view.


Less than one third said they disagreed with both Al-Qaeda's
attitudes and its attacks on Americans, with 31 percent of
Egyptians, 29 percent of Indonesians and 26 percent of Moroccans
and 16 percent in Pakistan.


A large number of Pakistanis chose not to answer the question,
with 68 percent saying they refuse/don't know. Significant
sections of the other groups also declined to answer, including
35 percent of Moroccans, 32 percent of Indonesians and 14 percent
of Egyptians.


A wider range of opinions was found regarding the question of
suicide bombers and whether their actions could be justified
often, sometimes, rarely or never.


Forty-one percent of Egyptians said "an attack in which a Muslim
blows himself up while attacking an enemy" is often justified,
while 19 percent said "sometimes" and 28 percent said "never."


However, 68 percent of Indonesians and 60 percent of Pakistanis
were strongly opposed to suicide tactics.


Most Egyptians, Indonesians and Moroccans said establishing a
Palestinian state was not a US goal, and sweeping majorities in
all countries -- including 89 percent in Egypt and 63 percent in
Morocco -- responded that the United States was controlling most
or nearly all of what happens in the world today.


The poll was conducted from December to February through in-home
interviews by native Arabic, Indonesian and Urdu language
speakers with around 1,000 people in each country. The margin of
error was between three and four percent.

