

The mother of British bar hostess Lucie Blackman said she was
left "absolutely heartbroken" after the serial rapist accused of
killing her was cleared in Tokyo.


Jane Steare said she was stunned by the verdict on 54-year-old
Japanese businessman Joji Obara, who was convicted of raping nine
women -- but cleared of all charges relating to Blackman, who was
21 when she disappeared in July 2000.


Speaking at her home in Kent, southeast England, the bereaved
mother vowed to consult her lawyers as to whether to push for an
appeal.


"I'm heartbroken, absolutely heartbroken. I just can't believe
this verdict," said Steare, who did not fly to Japan for the
verdict because she could not face seeing Obara across a court
room.


"My worst fears have come true."


Blackman's dismembered body was found in a cave seven months
after she vanished.


Her father Tim Blackman and sister Sophie, 27, were in court in
Tokyo.


Steare attacked her ex-husband for accepting 100 million yen
(850,000 dollars) from one of Obara's friends, which she has
previously branded "blood money" that should never have been
taken.


She refused offers of 40 million yen and 100 million yen from
Obara's defence team.


Under Japanese law, defendants who admit their guilt can pay
compensation to their victims or their grieving families as part
of the court process and as a way of expressing remorse.


Judges take that into consideration in their sentencing.


"Lucie's father must surely now have to explain why his signature
appears on a document which questions key elements of the
prosecution case, a case he himself has described as
'circumstantial'," Steare said.


"He is also now in possession of money paid on behalf of a
convicted killer and rapist.


"Giving up is not an option for me, as any mother will
understand.


"Because I did not accept any condolence money, I understand that
under Japanese law, I retain the right to pursue an appeal.


"As Lucie's mother and the sole legal representative of my
daughter's estate, I will be consulting the authorities and my
legal advisers to understand what options are available to me in
my continuing search for justice.


"As a mother, I cannot begin to comprehend how money can
compensate for the loss of a child.


"The safety of all our children depends not on a cold calculation
of their worth, but on creating societies where justice and truth
can prevail over material greed.


"I believe that we must all remember the importance of enduring
moral values in our lives.


"As for my darling Lucie, I miss you so much.


"This aching void in my heart feels like it will never go away,
but I truly believe that one day we will hug each other again.


"I love you so much and always will. Your mummy will never give
up hope of finding justice and the truth."

