

Armenians on Tuesday marked the 92nd anniversary of the killing
of hundreds of thousands of their compatriots under the Ottoman
Empire, an event recognized as genocide by many countries but a
flashpoint in relations between Turkey and the West.


From early morning, mourners climbed in heavy rain to a hilltop
memorial for the victims in the Armenian capital Yerevan.


Flowers were laid at the foot of the memorial, where an eternal
flame has burned since its construction in 1965, when Armenia was
part of the Soviet Union. Top officials, including President
Robert Kocharian, were among those paying tribute.


Many from Armenia's widespread diaspora descend on Yerevan every
year for the annual ceremony.


Hrant Gazariyan, 24, arrived from Turkey and said he would lay a
flower at the memorial this year in honour of Hrant Dink, the
Turkish-Armenian journalist killed in Turkey in January after
being branded a traitor by nationalists for urging an open debate
on the 1915 killings.


Eleven suspects have been charged in Dink's murder.


"Unfortunately, this time I am laying one more flower at the
eternal flame for Hrant Dink," Gazariyan said. "It has already
been 100 days and those behind his murder have still not been
found and punished.... Turkey must recognize the genocide so that
there will not be more victims, like Dink."


Armenians say up to 1.5 million died in orchestrated killings
during the final years of the Ottoman Empire.


Turkey strongly rejects claims of a genocide, saying that 300,000
Armenians and at least an equal number of Turks were killed in
civil strife in 1915-1917 when the Christian Armenians, backed by
Russia, rose up against the Ottoman Empire.


The dispute has been a major obstacle in relations between Turkey
and Armenia, which have no diplomatic ties and whose border has
remained closed for more than decade.


It has also complicated relations between EU-aspirant Turkey and
many Western countries, especially those with large ethnic
Armenian communities.


More than 20 countries have officially recognized the killings as
genocide, including Russia, Canada, Poland, Switzerland and
Belgium.


But many, including the United States and Britain, refuse to use
the term to describe the events, mindful of relations with
Turkey.


In March, the Israeli parliament rejected a motion recognizing
the killings as a genocide. Israel has close diplomatic ties with
Turkey, one of the few Muslim countries with which it has
relations.


Turkey froze bilateral military ties with France in November
after French lawmakers voted to make it a jailable offense to
deny that Armenians were victims of a genocide.


A resolution is pending in the US Congress to recognize the
killings as a genocide, but a vote on the bill has not yet been
scheduled amid intense lobbying against it from the White House
and Turkey.


The US ambassador to Yerevan, John Evans, was recalled last year
after he used the term genocide in a speech to Armenian
Americans.

