

The head of Hyundai Motor, Chung Mong-Koo, is to launch
construction of the South Korean car giant's first European
production plant in the Czech Republic on Wednesday.


For Hyundai, the world's sixth-biggest car producer, the plant in
the far eastern town of Nosovice signals a fresh assault on the
vast European car market.


The company, trying to shake off domestic troubles and the threat
of stepped up competition from industry newcomers, such as China,
is investing 1.0 billion euros (1.36 billion dollars), the
biggest such investment ever in the former Communist Central
European country.


The project hit a period of uncertainty owing to a slush fund
corruption scandal for which Chung now faces a three-year prison
sentence.


The investment confirms the Czech Republic as the foremost
regional, and a leading European, carmaker.


Hyundia will produce its new i30 family hatchback at Nosovice,
signalling its intent to grab a bigger share of the mainstream
European car market. The Czech plant will later produce an MPV
car-van hybrid, the company said.


Sister company, Kia, has already launched production in
neighbouring Slovakia with close cooperation planned between the
factories which are 60 kilometres (38 miles) apart.


A European foothold is crucial for Hyundai to improve its image,
and sales, on the local market, according to Marc-Rene Tonn, an
auto sector analyst with the German-based bank, MM Warburg.


"It is important to strengthen your profile on the target market
if you want to increase market share and get closer to
customers," he explained.


As brands, Hyundai and Kia, still have to convince European car
buyers. The second-hand value of their cars is sharply lower than
that of well established brands, such as Volkswagen or BMW which
in turn hinders the development of dealer networks, he said.


Skoda Auto, part of the Volkswagen Group, and the Toyota Peugeot
Citroen (TPCA) joint venture together manufactured just under
849,000 cars in the Czech Republic last year. The South Korean
newcomer will produce 200,000 cars from 2009, rising to 300,000
when it reaches full production in 2011.


That eventual total would put Czech production on an equal
footing with Italy's 1.21 million output last year and boost the
industry's position as the driving force in the booming Czech
economy.


More than 30,000 workers are directly employed by two existing
manufacturers and over 100,000 more by subcontractors and
suppliers, according to the local auto industry association.


About 88.0 percent of Skoda's and 99 percent of TPCA's sales were
on foreign markets last year.


But the success story so far and Hyundai's arrival have sparked
concerns that the local economy is becoming over-dependent on one
sector. The established manufacturers have warned of an
exacerbating skills shortfall in what is becoming an overcrowded
local market.


"This is an issue they will have to face up to," cautioned Tonn.
"This is the last Czech plant for the time being, but I would not
rule out another one completely," he added.


The commented that producers benefited from having a cluster of
local suppliers while warned that Czech wage costs, one of the
main incentives in the past, are catching up fast with those in
the West.


Skoda Auto board chairman, Detlef Wittig, stressed the risk last
week that Hyundai's Nosovice debut could hurt the whole sector by
"strengthening the Czech currency and the possible shortage of
people and subcontractors."


Skoda has just come through bruising pay and wage negotiations
with unions which ended with it raising average workers' wages by
12.7 until the end of 2008  a day after they staged a series of
disruptive strikes.


TPCA has promised to increase wages by an annual 7.5 percent in
April, more than five times the inflation rate.


The South Korean company has dismissed its rivals' fears that it
will poach skilled workers, saying that it wants to hire locally
in the unemployment hit far east of the country and does not
initially intend to match wages offered by other car
manufacturers.


Hyundai is struggling to reverse declining European sales. It
accounted for 1.8 percent of new cars sold in the first quarter
of the year in Europe's 25 main national markets, down from 2.0
percent during the first three months of 2006, according to the
European car constructors association (ACEA).


Sister company, Kia's  market share dropped to 1.5 percent from
1.6 over the same period.

