

Wimbledon has announced record prize money will be handed out at
this year's All England Club Championships, BBC reported on
Tuesday.


Prize money will be up nine percent on last year with the men's
and women's singles champions receiving 700,000 pounds each (1.4
million dollars).


The total prize money fund for the two-week tournament from June
25-July 8 will be 11,282,710 pounds (22.6 million dollars).


It has been boosted by Wimbeldon's decision in February to
finally offer equal prize money to the men's and women's
champions.


"No tennis tournament has ever offered higher prize money than
Wimbledon in 2007," said Tim Phillips, chairman of organisers the
All England Club.


Hawk-eye technology will also be used on Centre Court and Court
One at this year's championships, with existing Cyclops equipment
used on other courts.


Wimbledon organisers have also changed the format for wildcard
entries to this year's championships.


Previously the winners of a special wildcard tournament gained
wildcards to the main draw but now those will be selected on
world rankings instead.


"It will be based on results over the year and I feel very happy
with that," said Paul Hutchins, head of men's tennis at the Lawn
Tennis Association (LTA).


"Wimbledon is just two weeks of the year and the players are
playing over 12 months.


"So if any player is slacking, not at it 100 percent or not
playing enough tournaments, then he would not get put up on the
wildcard list of the top eight.


"I want to strengthen the mental toughness of our players.


"That means they have got to go and play in far-off places in
difficult conditions, preferably on slow clay, where mentally it
is very, very tough.


"We have just come back from a tour of South America where one of
our players played 45 matches in seven weeks.


"It is these sort of mental toughness ideas that we want to try
and bring in much more with our younger players."


Wimbledon reserves 16 wildcards, eight each for the men and
women, to distribute mostly to young British players.

