

The World Trade Organisation agreed on Tuesday to take up the
European Union's complaint on Indian import duties on wines and
spirits, a WTO spokesman said.


A meeting of the WTO's Dispute Settlement Body here decided to
set up a panel to examine and rule on the dispute following a
second request from the EU.


India's blockage at a meeting nearly two weeks ago was
automatically waived under WTO rules, the spokesman said.


The European Union is challenging combined duties and taxes that
range from 252 to 550 percent on spirits imported into one of the
world's fastest growing markets, and from 177 to 264 percent on
wine imported into India, according to Brussels.


"This is a long standing issue and of very serious concern to the
EU," the 27 nation European bloc said in its statement to the
meeting, arguing that the aggregate duties exceeded those
declared by India to the WTO.


India described talks with Brussels as "constructive, fruitful"
and said it was "disappointed" by the EU's decision to pursue the
complaint.


"We are confident that the panel will find the measures are
consistent with India's WTO obligations," the Indian statement to
the meeting added.


Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath recognised last month that
tariffs were high and said that his country remained committed to
resolving the issue through negotiations.


The Press Trust of India reported earlier this month that the
Indian government expects to pass legislation cutting the high
drinks duties before the WTO can complete its investigation into
the levies.


WTO experts normally take about six months to produce their
verdict once the panel is appointed.


In 2004, EU wine and spirits exports to India amounted to just
27.3 million euros (36.7 million dollars), out of a total EU
export market worth 9.5 billion euros, according to the EU
statistics agency Eurostat.


But India's 1.1 billion strong population and fast-growing middle
class, represent a potentially huge market for both European and
US wine and spirits exporters.


The United States submitted a similar complaint over India's
duties on wine and spirit imports in early March, requesting
negotiations with Delhi.

