

The police force were facing increasing criticism on Tuesday for
their handling of a nationwide crackdown aimed at making women
abide by Iran's Islamic dress code.


Thousands of women have been warned and hundreds arrested for
wearing overly loose headscarves or excessively tight coats,
prompting warnings in the press that the authorities should be
focusing on other economic priorities.


Even the overall head of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mahmoud Hashemi
Shahroudi, who is appointed by supreme leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, urged police against heavy-handed actions against women
found to have broken the rules.


"Hauling women and young people to the police station will have
no use except to cause damage to society," the reformist Etemad
Melli newspaper quoted Shahroudi as telling a meeting of local
governors.


"Tough measures on social problems will backfire and have
counter-productive effects," he warned.


Witnesses have said that the drive, launched on Saturday, has not
been universally popular on Tehran's streets, with parents of the
women apprehended in particular unafraid of making their feelings
clear to the police.


Reformist newspapers and the ISNA student news agency reported
that 2,000 students at a prestigious university in the southern
city of Shiraz staged a protest on Sunday night over new
restrictions on conduct and clothing.


The protests were triggered by a new code of conduct banning the
students from wearing shorts and sleeveless vests outside rooms
in their strictly segregated dormitories and an extended curfew.


It is not clear whether the new directive was in line with the
nationwide clampdown on dressing, which also applies to men.


Critics in the media also complained that the government of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had more important issues to deal
with, citing the country's soaring inflation and high
unemployment rates.


"Mr President, I wonder if what the police, supervised by your
interior ministry, are doing to women stems from a
misunderstanding?" asked Masih Alinejad, a columnist in the
Etemad Melli daily.


"Or are people's major problems of injustice and poverty have
been resolved?" he asked.


Alinejad recalled that Ahmadinejad asked during his 2005
electoral campaign whether the problem "in our country was two
strands of women's hair or fighting poverty, creating jobs and
implementing justice?"


Two-thirds of Iran's 70-million population is under 30 and the
official unemployment rate stands at about 11 percent. Economists
have warned against rising inflation, estimated to hit 24 percent
in the current Iranian year.


Even the hardline daily Kayhan said that "being badly-veiled is
not the only vice" in the country.


"There are major vices such as going to bed hungry, being
deprived of higher education, unemployment and the inability of a
large number of people to provide for their basic needs," it
said.


"The officials should prove they have plans to resolve these as
well," wrote Kayhan, whose chief editor in also appointed by
Khamenei.


Some conservatives have applauded the crackdown as important at a
time when many women are pushing the boundaries of what is
acceptable by showing off naked ankles and fashionably styled
hair beneath their headscarves.


But Ahmadinejad's government on Tuesday sought to distance itself
from the clampdown, which it said was being carried out by police
as "agents of the judiciary".


"The police work as agents of the judiciary to confront crimes.
The government as an executive body does not interfere in the
affairs of the judiciary," government spokesman Gholam Hossein
Elham told reporters.


Iran has issued 3,500 warnings nationwide and detained around 200
women in the new drive launched on Saturday, according to the
latest police figures quoted by local media.


The campaign is aimed primarily at women seen to infringe the
rules of covering their heads and bodily contours that have been
in place since the Islamic revolution in 1979.

