

In France's presidential showdown, Nicolas Sarkozy has a powerful
new weapon against Segolene Royal: the Socialist Party's former
chief economist, who has jumped ship to back the right-winger.


Eric Besson resigned from the Socialist Party (PS) in February in
a row over the cost of Royal's campaign. Within weeks he released
a book -- which became an instant best-seller -- attacking Royal
as a glory-hunting populist, and warning that "France will be on
a dangerous slope" if she is elected president.


In a final twist of the knife, the Socialist lawmaker gave his
official backing to Sarkozy on Sunday, saying that of the two
finalists for the May 6 run-off, "he appears the best prepared,
the most qualified and the most coherent".


Both Sarkozy, 52, and Royal, 53, are on a campaign to woo the 6.8
million voters who backed the centrist Francois Bayrou in
Sunday's first round, seen as the key to victory in round two.


On Tuesday Besson confirmed that he would head a new "left-wing
section" in Sarkozy's campaign team, set up along with a
"centrist section" to reach out for votes beyond the right-
winger's core political base.


"I will look to coordinate the action of people who believe that,
for this election, given the context, Nicolas Sarkozy is the one
who best embodies the notion of progress," he told Europe 1
radio.


Besson was the star guest of Sarkozy's first second-round rally
on Monday, at which he accused Royal's team of resorting to a
"campaign of demonisation" against the right-winger to mask her
own weaknesses.


"From late 2006, it was obvious to many of us that on the basis
of ideas and ability to govern, Segolene Royal had no chance of
winning against Nicolas Sarkozy," he told the gathering in the
eastern town of Dijon.


"To have any hope of beating him, we had to caricature him in the
hope that it would frighten people. This campaign of
demonisation... have no doubt, you will see it at work between
the two rounds."


Royal has repeatedly focused her attacks on Sarkozy's
personality, describing him as "a dangerous man", contrasting the
alleged "brutality" of his approach to economic reform, law and
order and immigration to her own promise of a nurturing approach.


As PS economics chief, Besson himself wrote a chapter of a book-
length diatribe against the former interior minister, attacking
him as an "American neo- conservative with a French passport".


Besson said Sarkozy made contact with him last week and persuaded
him to come on board after "a long discussion on fundamental
issues".


He said he finally chose to back the right-winger "because he
told the French people the truth during this campaign", whereas
he said Royal "gave up any attempt to make a case for reform".


Royal's campaign headquarters meanwhile issued a statement saying
Besson was never part of her team, while PS spokesman Julien Dray
told Canal+ television that Besson "betrayed his family" out of
"bitterness at feeling sidelined".

