

The funeral for Russia's first president Boris Yeltsin will be
held on Wednesday in the country's biggest church and will be
followed by burial in a historic Moscow cemetery, officials said.


Russians' farewell to their late leader will begin on Tuesday
with a lying-in- state from 1230 GMT and a service at 1300 GMT in
Christ the Saviour, a lavish golden-domed church in central
Moscow, a Kremlin spokesman said.


An official from the Russian Orthodox Church's office for
external relations said that the liturgy would start at 0400 GMT
followed by the main funeral service at 0800 GMT.


Former US presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush, are among
leading international figures who will be attending the ceremony,
Russian news agencies reported.


German President Horst Kohler and leaders from ex-Soviet
countries, including Armenia and Lithuania, which gained their
independence in the Soviet collapse, have confirmed their
attendance.


Russian Orthodox Patriarch Alexy II has announced that three
bishops will officiate at the funeral ceremony, church spokesman
Vsevolod Chaplin was quoted by RIA-Novosti news agency as saying.


The Christ the Saviour cathedral was destroyed in Soviet times
and an open-air swimming pool was built in its place. The church
was painstakingly rebuilt as an exact replica under Yeltsin in
the 1990s.


The ceremony will be shown live on television as the nation holds
a day of mourning, with flags flown at half-mast across the
country and television entertainment programmes cancelled, the
Kremlin said in a statement.


Yeltsin will then be buried next to leading Russian public
figures such as playwright Anton Chekhov, Soviet leader Nikita
Khrushchev and opera singer Fyodor Shalyapin in the grounds of
the Novodevichy convent in Moscow.


The convent, famous for its peaceful and picturesque setting by
the Moscow river, was founded in the 16th century and inhabited
by many female relatives of Russia's Tsars.


Yeltsin, Russia's first post-Soviet president, will be the first
Kremlin leader since Khrushchev -- outcast after his ouster in
1964 -- not to be interred by the Kremlin wall on Red Square.


Every other Soviet leader from Stalin to Konstantin Chernenko is
buried in the plot behind Lenin's granite mausoleum, where the
revolutionary leader lies embalmed.


The ex-president will lie in a section traditionally reserved for
outstanding Soviet and Russian military men, not far from the
grave of the wife of Mikhail Gorbachev, Raisa, state-run RIA
Novosti news agency reported.

