

Syrian human rights activist Anwar Bunni was on Tuesday sentenced
to five years in prison on charges of "spreading false
information" damaging to the country, his lawyer said.


"The criminal court in Damascus sentenced lawyer Anwar Bunni to
five years in prison under the accusation of spreading false
information which weakens the nation," Khalil Maatuk said.


Bunni was also ordered to pay a 2,000-dollar fine to the social
affairs and labour ministry for membership of an unlicensed human
rights organisation.


Himself a lawyer, Bunni was arrested in the Syrian capital in May
2006 after signing an appeal for radical reform in relations
between Syria and neighbouring Lebanon.


Syria's state prosecutor said in February that Bunni would be
prosecuted for spreading false information.


Maatuk and a rights group condemned the heavy jail sentence as an
attempt to silence activists.


"This verdict is political and unjust. It aims to silence others
and to put pressure on and terrorise human rights activists in
Syria," the lawyer told AFP.


"They want to muzzle for good (the opposition) so that only the
opinion of the authorities is heard," he charged. "Anwar Bunni
was condemned for activities which denounce violations against
human rights in Syria."


The National Organisation for Human Rights in Syria said the
sentence was "harsh" and political, while calling on the
authorities to free Bunni and all other rights activists held
behind bars.


"This trial was an attempt to silence the free voices and a
message for all to halt their activities in the public domain,"
the group's head Ammar Qorabi said in a statement.


Bunni was the director of a legal rights centre in Syria financed
partly by the European Union and established by a Belgian non-
governmental organisation. The centre was closed down after his
arrest.


In a statement to the court in January, Bunni said he was being
judged for his opinions and had in no way violated the Syrian
constitution or the law.


The "Beirut-Damascus Declaration" published in the Lebanese
capital in May 2006 was signed by nearly 300 Syrian and Lebanese
intellectuals.


In a crackdown that followed in Syria, Bunni was arrested along
with nine others, including journalist and writer Michel Kilo and
communist activist Mahmud Issa.


On March 27, Kilo and Issa were charged in court with spreading
false information and sowing discord, and they also face possible
jail terms of at least three years.

