

For almost a decade, Boris Yeltsin's colourful entourage amassed
power and huge fortunes. They were sidelined under President
Vladimir Putin but some still play key roles in the new Russia.


The group of relatives, businessmen and state officials known
simply as "The Family" once ruled Russia as a state within a
state -- dispensing patronage and manipulating elections.


The group, centred on the youngest of Yeltsin's two daughters
Tatyana Yumasheva, also effectively took over the duties of
government when the president was incapacitated by drinking bouts
or heart problems.


Several of them were accused of corruption and abuse of power but
charges were never followed up after Putin, the successor that
they hand-picked, came to power in January 2000.


One of Putin's first orders on assuming office was to grant
Yeltsin immunity from prosecution. But he also sacked Yumasheva
from her post as a presidential aide and other key figures
disappeared from the public eye.


Here are short bios of some of the key figures of the Yeltsin
years:


-- Tatyana Yumasheva: Yeltsin's daughter was formally just one of
several presidential aides but unofficially became known as his
most trusted advisor and she controlled access to the president.


She has since married the former head of the presidential
administration, Valentin Yumashev, and directs a charity
foundation called "First President of Russia."


Yeltsin's oldest daughter, Yelena, who played less of a role in
political life during the 1990s, is now married to Valery Okulov,
CEO of Russian airline Aeroflot.


-- Boris Berezovsky: A flamboyant media and industry tycoon,
Berezovsky became the leading member of the group of oligarchs
who divided up Russia's assets in a series of controversial
privatisations in the 1990s.


Soon after coming to power, Putin launched a series of
investigations against Berezovsky and the oligarch fled to
London. He has kept up a high-profile campaign against Putin and
has vowed to topple the Russian leader.


-- Alexander Korzhakov: The president's burly personal bodyguard,
Korzhakov wielded power that went well beyond his official duties
by heading up a security service that could enforce Yeltsin's
orders.


Korzhakov was sacked in 1996 after a corruption scandal and
published his memoirs in 1997. In 1999, he became a member of the
Russian parliament and he lives in a large villa outside Moscow.


-- Mikhail Kasyanov: Kasyanov was considered a relatively minor
player in the Yeltsin entourage, although he led delicate
international financial negotiations on Russia's Soviet-era
debts.


Under Putin, he served as prime minister from 2000 until he was
dismissed in 2004. He has since helped lead opposition to Putin
and has declared he will run in presidential elections in 2008.


-- Anatoly Chubais: Chubais was the architect of Russia's
controversial privatisation deals in the 1990s, as well as deals
with the most powerful businessmen in the country to secure
Yeltsin's re-election in 1996.


Although unpopular among many Russians because of his radical
market reforms and the widespread poverty that they generated, he
has retained an influential role as CEO of Unified Energy System,
Russia's electricity monopoly.


-- Yegor Gaidar: This chubby economist was the author of Russia's
"shock therapy" in which the communist system was scrapped almost
overnight and prices liberated, transforming the moribund economy
but instantly wiping out millions of people's savings and causing
widespread misery.


Gaidar plays no role in Putin's government. He heads a think tank
and leads a discreet existence on the international lecture
circuit.

