

The surprise acquittal of a Japanese businessman on Tuesday over
the killing of a British bar hostess is a rare example of the
country's judges disagreeing with prosecutors, experts said.


Twenty-one-year-old Lucie Blackman's body was found dismembered
in 2001 after a seven-month search that drew intense media
coverage in Britain and even an appeal from Prime Minister Tony
Blair.


After a marathon trial, Joji Obara, a 54-year-old former property
developer, was convicted Tuesday over the rape of nine women --
but acquitted of all charges over Blackman's death.


"To me, this shows that the prosecutors did a very bad job," said
Yoshihiro Yasuda, a lawyer who studies problems in Japan's
judiciary.


"In Japan, 99.9 percent of criminal cases end in conviction,
which is because Japanese courts do not really scrutinise
investigations made by prosecutors," he said. "Japanese judges
generally believe what prosecutors say."


Japan's high conviction rate has recently come under fire in a
movie by director Masayoshi Suo, best known for the film "Shall
We Dance?"


Inspired by a true story, "I Just Didn't Do It" describes a
commuter falsely accused of groping a girl on a packed train who
watches his life deteriorate during years of trials as he
steadfastly proclaims his innocence.


Generally, suspects in Japan confess and apologise in exchange
for suspended or at least more lenient sentences.


Some experts said the Obara trial showed a Japanese court holding
its own despite intense pressure.


Obara was convicted for crimes including the death of Carita
Ridgway, an Australian hostess who died in hospital allegedly
after he raped and drugged her.


In Blackman's case, her body parts were found in a seaside cave.


"What is clear is that the victim acted together with the accused
and then vanished and, following that, she was found dead," Judge
Tsutomu Tochigi said.


Minoru Otani, a professor of law and president of Doshisha
University, said the judge was being especially careful given the
sensitive nature of the case.


"It is natural for a judge to be cautious when there is only
circumstantial evidences," Otani said.


"What was disputed in the court seems to be over findings from
investigations. That is quite normal for a trial, whether it
takes place in Japan or in Britain," he said.


The acquittal is likely to trigger criticism in Britain, where
newspapers have intensely followed the trial.


"There should be no room for political pressure in a criminal
case in Japan or in Britain," said Akira Idota, a lawyer and
professor emeritus of Osaka International University.


Otani estimated that around 40 percent of criminal cases end in
acquittal in Britain, compared with a tiny fraction in Japan.


He said the difference was that Japanese prosecutors only bring
cases to court if they are confident that they produce a
conviction.


Critics say that Japanese courts put too much trust in
prosecutors.


"Japan should stop its custom of relying so heavily on
prosecutors' investigations over the handling of criminal cases,"
Otani said.

