

Pakistan's World Cup coach Bob Woolmer may have been strangled to
death, two Jamaican newspapers reported on Thursday quoting
unnamed police sources.


The Jamaica Gleaner said a "high-ranking police officer" had
confirmed that fresh evidence has surfaced which suggested that
Woolmer was strangled in his room at the Jamaica Pegasus hotel
between Saturday night and Sunday morning.


According to the police officer, the 58-year-old Woolmer was
found half naked in his room, partially wrapped in a towel, the
newspaper said.


"A bone in the neck, near the glands, was broken, and this
suggests that somebody might have put some pressure on it," the
officer told the newspaper.


"We are now treating this as a homicide."


The Jamaica Observer also quoted unnamed sources close to the
investigation as saying that bones in the lower part of Woolmer's
face were broken, suggesting he had been strangled.


Woolmer died in hospital on Sunday after being found unconscious
in his hotel room a day after Pakistan were knocked out of the
World Cup following a shock defeat by minnows Ireland.


Assistant Commissioner of Police Owen Ellington, head of World
Cup security here, however refused to confirm rumours of
strangulation, the Gleaner said.


Deputy Commissioner of Police Mark Shields had said on Tuesday
that an autopsy conducted on Woolmer's body by a government
pathologist proved inconclusive as to the cause of death which
was being treated as "suspicious."


Shields said the police were awaiting the results of the
toxicology and histology analysis from Woolmer's tissue sample.


On Wednesday night, a press release from the Jamaica Constabulary
Force director of communications, Karl Angell, said a second
opinion was being sought on the autopsy.


"Following consultations today involving representatives from the
Government of Jamaica and the police, a decision was taken to
seek the opinion of a second pathologist," the release said.


Detectives also reviewed tapes from closed-circuit cameras at the
hotel, which could give them clues as to who entered Woolmer's
room during the period in question.


The Gleaner reported that members of the Pakistan team were
interviewed on Wednesday by the police.


"It is now unclear whether the team will be allowed to leave on
Saturday as initially scheduled," the paper said.


Pakistan, who were knocked out of the tournament after losing to
the West Indies and Ireland, defeated Zimbabwe in their last
group D match at the Sabina Park on Wednesday.

