

American superstar Michael Phelps has greatness on his mind as he
embarks on swimming's monumental challenge of eight gold medals
at the world championships in Melbourne.


Compatriot Mark Spitz is considered the greatest swimmer of all
time with seven gold medals at the 1972 Munich Olympics.


Phelps attempted to emulate Spitz's achievement at the Athens
Games in 2004, but came up one short with six gold medals and two
bronze.


The 21-year-old is again targeting eight golds at the world
championships as a springboard to another assault on Spitz's
benchmark at the Beijing Olympics next year.


With Australian Ian Thorpe retired from the pool Phelps is the
world's greatest contemporary swimmer with six Olympic gold
medals, 16 world records and the promise of much more to come.


His versatility as a medley swimmer and butterflyer enables him
to take on such a demanding workload aided by the unique
physiological characteristic of his body producing less lactic
acid than other swimmers.


Lactic acid buildup is the scourge for all athletes, a substance
that makes muscles ache during exercise, while Phelps is actually
recovering during peak performance.


Next week Phelps will defend his world crowns in the 200m
freestyle and 200m medley, take on two-time world champion
teammate Ian Crocker in the 100m butterfly and compete in his
world record events, 200m butterfly and 400m medley.


He will also swim in all three relays, where the Americans are
favourites.


With Thorpe gone and Dutchman Pieter van den Hoogenband
struggling for speed since a back operation in May 2005 and
retiring after Beijing, the way is open for Phelps to seize the
world 200m freestyle.


Phelps owns three world records (200m medley the other) among the
16 he has set in five years' competition. Only Spitz (26) and
East German backstroker Roland Matthes (18), hold more world
records.


"This is probably one of the biggest meets of my career," Phelps
said ahead of the world championships.


"A good world championships sends you into the Olympic year
feeling confident and you want to keep everything rolling.


"This sets you up for what happens next year. What happens in
Melbourne will hopefully set up a good Olympics."


Phelps said the key to coming out with so many gold medals at the
big meets was not to get too much ahead of himself.


"The key for me is not getting hung up on one race," he said. "If
I start off with a bad race, and I can put that race behind me
and get ready for my next race, I'll be able to manage
everything."


His coach Bob Bowman is convinced Phelps will produce a
spectacular performance in Melbourne as a result of a new
strength training programme.


"It seems to be really paying dividends because he hasn't really
lost any endurance but he's gained strength and speed which I
think will help move him to the next level," Bowman said.

