

The Australian dollar hit fresh 10-year highs against the US unit
Thursday amid expectations that local interest rates will rise as
early as next month, dealers said.


They said the currency was boosted by the US Federal Reserve's
decision overnight to leave interest rates on hold, raising the
prospect of a widening rate differential with Australia.


The local currency rose to 80.68 US cents at noon (0100 GMT), up
more than half a US cent on Wednesday's close of 80.14 US cents.


Analysts had discounted the prospect of a rate rise in 2007 until
last Friday, when Reserve Bank of Australia assistant governor
Malcolm Edey startled the market by saying the underlying
inflation rate was too high.


The current inflation rate of 2.75 percent is within the central
bank's stated target of 2.0-3.0 percent so markets interpreted
Edey's remarks as evidence the bank was taking a more hawkish
stance.


"On balance it now looks likely that the bank will raise rates by
0.25 basis points following its April 3 board meeting," Westpac
Bank chief economist Bill Evans said in a research note Thursday.


The Reserve Bank increased rates three times to 6.25 percent in
2006 and Evans said the tightening was likely to continue even if
it moved again in April.


"A rise in interest rates in April or May would not mark the peak
of the cycle," he said.


"We expect that the (central) bank would be prepared to go on
hold for the remainder of 2007 to assess the cumulative impact of
four rate hikes over a full year.


"However, we expect that the factors pushing up inflation over
the last year would remain apparent through the second half of
2007 leading to a further move by early 2008."


Dealers said the rate expectations were bolstering the Australian
dollar.


Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Besa Deda said the local
dollar was likely to trade between 77 and 82 US cents in coming
months, with fundamentals suggesting the upward trend in the
currency could continue.


Deda said positives for the currency included the global economic
outlook, commodity prices, the solid domestic economy,
Australia's terms of trade, interest rate expectations and the US
dollar's weakness.


She said there was likely to be a retracement before the currency
resumed its rise.


"The extent of the Australian dollar's rise over the last week
and the technical picture suggest a pullback and consolidation
period is likely before the currency resumes its appreciation ...
(to) 82 US cents by mid-year," she said.

