

Despite looking forward to a long break to recover from life on
the road, China's Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo have not ruled out a
comeback after scoring their third world figure skating gold.


"Our plan for now is to go back to our club in China and take it
easy," 33-year- old Zhao said as the duo won their third pairs'
gold medal at the world championships here Wednesday night.


"We may then take part in such ice shows as Stars on Ice. That is
just about all."


But the pair remained ambiguous about their future as
competitors.


Shen, 28, said, "We are very tired now and we want to have a long
break. It may last a year. Maybe we will come back if we still
have competence, ability and physical strength."


Zhao has paired with Shen, a fellow member of a skating club in
Harbin, northeastern China, for 14 years, lifting the first world
pairs' title for China in 2002. In the same year they also won
Asia's first Olympic pairs medal, a bronze.


They retained the world title in 2003, finished second in 2004
but pulled out from the 2005 worlds due to Zhao being injury.


The pair managed to pick up the bronze at the Turin Olympics last
year although they trained for just two months after Zhao
ruptured his left Achilles' tendon six months previously.


"It is stimulating but very hard for us to keep on competing,"
said Zhao, who sat out last year's post-Olympic worlds, which
younger Harbin club mates Pang Qing and Tong Jian won.


"I want to find time to spare for ourselves and want to do what
we want to do. I want to go back to a normal life," he added.
"But it would be great if I am invited to such fun events like
exhibitions.


"If I keep on taking part in too many competitions, my hair over
the forehead will thin out," he joked.


Admired for their acrobatic dynamism and European elegance, Shen
and Zhao wowed a sellout crowd of 6,400 at the Tokyo Metropolitan
Gymnasium with a triple and double toeloop combination, a triple
twist, triple throws and other clean elements.


Their unison was slightly broken when they attempted a change-
foot combination spin halfway through their routine, which was
set to the music of "Meditation from Thais" by Jules Massenet.


They hugged and kissed on the cheek amid a long standing ovation
when they won with a total of 203.50 points, close to their
personal best of 206.54 set at the Grand Prix final in late 2004
in Beijing which they won.


Pang and Tong, both 27, finished second with 188.46 points with
European champions Aliona Savchenko and Robin Szolkowy of Germany
third with 187.39.


The world title has completed a winning streak this season for
Shen and Zhao who have also triumphed in the Cup of China, the
NHK Trophy, the Grand Prix final and the Four Continents event.


"I am happy we have come a long way from our first competition to
see a beautiful result here today," Zhao said. "Our efforts have
paid off."

