

Fifty years of the European Union has transformed Brussels from a
sleepy backwater to a powerhouse, but the "European quarter" and
Eurocrats have not yet been taken to heart by city residents.


The EU's professional immigrants are blamed for driving up rental
prices and accused of living in privileged enclaves or damaging
the architectural heritage, despite the prestige they have
brought the Belgian capital.


For years, Brussels fought it out for the title of European
capital with Luxembourg and Strasbourg but now -- as the EU
celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome on
March 25 -- its lofty position is assured.


Summits and most formal meetings of the EU's 27 member countries
are held in Brussels and the European Commission, the bloc's
administrative arm, bases most of its 19,000 employees here.


Despite the criticism, Brussels has benefited enormously from the
EU.


The 54,000 people working at the institutions, and the non-
governmental organisations drawn to them -- at least 100,000
people if families are included -- account for 14 percent of
Brussels' gross domestic product.


Industry only accounts for eight percent, according to Christian
Vandermotten, a professor at the Free University of Brussels and
author of a new study on the EU's impact on the city.


"Brussels is only part of the business world because of the EU,"
he said.


Thanks to the Union, there are airlinks to the world's major
destinations. It is also one of Europe's most multi-cultural
cities -- almost one in three of its roughly one million
residents are not Belgian.


Immigrants from central and eastern European nations -- most of
whom joined in the EU in 2004 -- led by Poles and Romanians, now
represent 3.8 percent of the population, compared to 0.8 percent
six years ago.


Many Brussels residents say they like the diversity, which helps
them forget the many quarrels between Belgium's French- and
Dutch-speaking communities. But they hate the "European quarter".


Most of the main EU buildings have been built there, contributing
to a "Brusselisation" factor; a term from the 1960s used to
describe an urban drive that destroyed many picturesque streets
and Art Nouveau buildings.


Hundreds of homes, some by the celebrated architects Victor Horta
and Henry Van de Velde, were razed in the eastern suburb to make
way for buildings like the Commission's Berlaymont headquarters,
once the site of a convent.


Pierced by busy avenues, invaded by offices, the district has
shown a "vision deficit" since the 1960s, according to Francois
Shuiten, who writes comic books with the transformation of
Brussels as settings.


It was a problem that led regional authorities to name Marie-
Laure Roggemans as "Madame Europe" and task her with reviving the
neighbourhood.


EU Administrative Affairs Commissioner Siim Kallas, who works
alongside her, has pledged that Europe will erect buildings that
are "beautiful", and "symbolise the EU" and "humans".


But to help reconcile the 'Bruxellois' with the EU, Roggemans
wants to end the "ghettoisation" of European civil servants, with
their own clubs and European schools.


These have become a source of jealousy for the locals, who also
accuse the Eurocrats of driving up housing and rental prices.


Local Brussels councillor Michel De Herde has struggled against
this phenomenon as he tried to set up "mixed" daycare centres.


"We are going to end up with a sort of caste of European
functionaries who have the maximum number of services, while the
rest of the population lives in another world," he said.

