

A defiant White House on Wednesday faced the prospect that top
aides could be summoned to testify before Congress, as a fight
over fired prosecutors threatened to flare into a constitutional
crisis.


A House of Representatives committee voted to empower its
chairman to issue subpoenas seeking under-oath answers to
questions about whether eight federal prosecutors were pushed out
late last year for political reasons.


The possibility that White House political guru Karl Rove and
others could be forced to testify added new tensions to President
George W. Bush's relations with a Democratic-controlled Congress
already strained by the Iraq war.


Bush, who on Tuesday accused the Democrats of a "partisan fishing
expedition," had offered to allow informal, un-transcribed,
behind-closed-door interviews on condition that there would be no
subsequent subpoenas.


The president also said he would "absolutely" fight any such
summons in the courts, which could set the stage for a
constitutional battle before the US Supreme Court.


And he has stood by his embattled Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales who is facing calls to resign over the affair.


White House counsel Dan Bartlett told National Public Radio that
any subpoena for Rove would be refused by the administration and
reiterated Bush's offer to make "officials here at the White
House available for interviews."


After that, "the very action of issuing subpoenas would make that
... a very formal rejection of the offer," Bartlett said.


"When you start slipping down the slide of: 'Well, put it on a
transcript, put it under oath,' it starts having all the
trappings of testimony whether it be public or private," he said.


Democratic Representative Linda Sanchez, whose subcommittee
authorized the subpoenas, said the move meant they would hear
from important witnesses and obtain "complete versions of
documents we have thus far received only in redacted form."


"We are greatly concerned that this purge was intended to allow
prosecutors to be used as simply one more instrument of political
control instead of to administer justice equally to all," Sanchez
said.


Minutes before the House vote, the committee chairman John
Conyers called subpoenas a "back-up" plan if the White House
resisted open testimony, and stressed: "I hope we can move
forward in negotiations."


So did White House spokesman Tony Snow, who warned that issuing
subpoenas would moot Bush's offer, but said he hoped lawmakers
would relent.


Snow flatly ruled out any compromises and said Bush would not
budge from what he called the "very generous and reasonable
offer" of holding private, informal conversations.


And he signaled an ironclad determination not to share with
lawmakers any internal White House discussions of the matter,
either in document form or in the proposed informal question-and-
answer sessions.


"What we are doing is standing to the principle that internal
White House deliberations, we're not going to make it fair game,"
he said, adding that Bush was under "no compulsion" to make White
House aides available at all.


"Are you more interested in a political spectacle than getting
the truth?" he asked lawmakers rhetorically, rejecting calls for
at least a transcript because such a record might be used as "a
stage prop."


Democratic Senator Pat Leahy, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, fired back on MSNBC television saying: "Actually, if
you're in public and under oath, you tend to get a lot more
accurate."


Snow repeatedly noted that the Justice Department had provided
about 3,000 pages of documents related to the December sackings,
insisting "we're providing everything that they conceivably could
need on this, and furthermore, they're going to have a full
opportunity to question the people involved."


Snow also dismissed suggestions that the aides could be sworn in
for private questioning, because anyone talking to lawmakers
would be bound by law to tell the truth, making an oath
unnecessary.


However, attorneys familiar with the law said that, while it
forbids lying to congressional officials "under any
circumstances," any official doing so under oath would result in
a separate, potentially more serious, perjury charge.

