

President Pervez Musharraf has found unlikely new allies in pro-
Taliban tribesmen who are driving foreign Al-Qaeda militants from
Pakistan's tribal belt for the first time, officials say.


Local sources say the government has covertly armed and helped
Pakistani tribesmen during battles this week against Uzbek
insurgents in mountainous South Waziristan. At least 114 people
have died.


Pakistan denies supporting them but openly approves of their
actions, especially when the United States, Musharraf's key
backer, is pressuring him to crush alleged Al-Qaeda sanctuaries
along the Afghan border.


"Local tribesmen are fed up and these moves show they want their
areas clear from foreigners who were creating all sorts of
problems," Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told AFP.


"It is the success of the policy the government pursued in the
region for the betterment of tribal people."


A government source in Wana, the capital of South Waziristan,
went further, saying the fighting "is an offshoot of Pakistan's
newly adopted strategy to drive Al-Qaeda-linked foreigners out of
the region".


Devout Muslim tribesmen in South Waziristan sheltered hundreds of
mainly Arab and Uzbek Al-Qaeda extremists who fled Afghanistan
after US-led forces ousted the Taliban regime in 2001 for failing
to hand over Osama bin Laden.


Pakistani forces launched military operations there in 2004 to
expel the foreigners, but since the government signed a peace
deal with rebels in 2005, US officials say new Al-Qaeda
facilities have sprung up.


Tensions have however arisen between the locals and Uzbek
militant chief Tahir Yuldashev, head of the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan and once a close confidant of bin Laden. He was
injured by the army in 2004.


Followers of Yuldashev were at the centre of the battles that
started Monday after a local former Taliban commander, Mullah
Nazir, ordered them to disarm.


Earlier this month clashes sparked by an assassination attempt on
a tribal elder left 15 people dead. Then on March 18 the body of
an Arab was found lying near Wana bazaar and Nazir's followers
blamed the Uzbeks. The next day the bodies of two Uzbeks were
found nearby with their throats slit.


The chief spokesman for the Pakistani military, which has lost
more than 700 soldiers in anti-Al-Qaeda operations, said it was
"not interfering" in the clashes.


"But it is a positive sign that the tribesmen have decided to
fight these foreign militants and their backers, who were a
source of trouble there," spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad
told AFP.


Security officials say the Uzbeks, who number between 1,000 and
2,000, are involved in the kind of "trouble" that US Vice
President Dick Cheney warned of in a recent visit here, including
training militants and facilitating attacks in Afghanistan.


But the government sources in Wana say a key cause of this week's
fighting is Islamabad's new strategy of supplying "intelligence,
arms and money to Taliban fighters loyal to the government."


One source speaking on condition of anonymity said that prior to
the conflict a "good number of fighters who look like Punjabis
joined the ranks of Mullah Nazir" and brought arms and money.


The source was apparently referring to extremist "jihadis", many
of whom hail from the central province of Punjab, who infiltrated
the area and started renting houses near Uzbek neighbourhoods.


It would not be the first time Pakistan has used Islamic
militants to further its goals, even though military ruler
Musharraf has apparently cracked down on those who once fought in
Indian-held Kashmir and in Afghanistan.


He himself has escaped two assassination attempts by Al-Qaeda
militants and disenchanted jihadis.


However Musharraf needs to balance pressure from Western
countries and forces in Afghanistan with the domestic unhappiness
that costly further army operations might cause.


The president is also busy with the biggest domestic political
crisis since he seized power in a 1999 coup, caused by his clumsy
attempt to remove Pakistan's chief justice.


Retired Brigadier Mahmood Shah, secretary for security affairs in
the tribal areas from 2002-2006, said Musharraf should "take
advantage of the situation".


"The government should openly or secretly side with the local
tribes. It should help them with money or weapons," Shah said.
"If it lends some support it will create an ideal situation to
force the foreign militants out."

