

Spain was counting the cost of its deadly Basque insurgency
Thursday, a year after armed separatist group ETA announced a
"permanent" ceasefire only to tear it up with a truck bombing in
December.


That attack killed two and was the first deadly outrage by ETA
since May 2003, shattering hopes that its ceasefire would hold
where others had not and Spain would be free at last of a
regional conflict going back four decades.


The bombing in Madrid exploded the government's policy of
pursuing a negotiated settlement with the separatists and fed
calls from the conservative opposition for an uncompromising line
against the militants.


Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and his
team are facing massive pressure from the main opposition Popular
Party, which led huge anti-ETA and anti-government protests
earlier this month.


Zapatero said the bombing had put a "full stop" to the peace
process he had spent much of his three-year premiership trying to
defend.


Some analysts believe the bombing, which killed two Equadorian
men, has equally thrown ETA into a corner with little room for
manoeuvre.


"It is for ETA to make a pronouncement" on where things go from
here, said Gorka Landaburu, Basque director of the weekly Cambio
16 newspaper.


"It is in a hole and knows it.


"Zapatero would be ready, in the context of (obtaining) total
security, to relaunch a peace process in a few months. But for
that to happen ETA must guarantee that it (the violence) is
over," said Landaburu.


ETA said it regretted the deaths and claimed that despite the
bombing its ceasefire remained intact, provoking ridicule from
politicians. The group has been silent ever since.


Spanish media have been predicting that the organisation will
shortly make a new statement clarifying its position.


Optimists think that the blast has discredited the hardliners
within the movement and that the doves will now gain the
ascendancy.


But pessimists, such as the chief editor of the Vasco Press news
agency, Florencio Dominguez, believe it is "highly unlikely" that
ETA will definitively renounce violence unless it is offered
concrete political gains in return.


One observer said the "coming weeks will be decisive" in the run-
up to May 27 municipal elections at which ETA's political wing
Batasuna would like to stand, though it is currently subject to a
2003 Spanish judicial ban.


Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi said Tuesday it would be an "error"
to pursue independence for the northern Spanish region through
violence.


"Nobody is seeking, and if they were it would be an error, to
construct an independent state via an armed struggle," Otegi told
Catalan radio in what appeared to be an attempt to distance his
group from ETA.


He called for a solution through "democratic means" while not
condemning ETA violence. Madrid insists such a condemnation must
be forthcoming if Batasuna is to field candidates on May 27.


However the group, represented in the last elections two years
ago by a pro- independence communist group, could present "civic
lists" that do not mention the party by name.


"If they are not present one way or another ETA could ... go back
to attacks," according to Dominguez.

