

For 40 years, people living along the shores of Lake Chad have
watched helplessly as it vanished before their eyes.


Stark warnings, grand pledges of action and prayers have failed
to make a difference -- Africa's fourth largest lake has been
drying up like snow melting in the sun since the 1960s, experts
say.


"You see, last year the lake came to here," Isaac Bikhat, an
official in the office of the Chadian environment minister said,
anxiously drawing the river in the sand. "Today, it is five
metres (16 feet) lower."


Lake Chad, which lies in hot and arid territory on the southern
edge of the Sahara desert, shrunk from 25,000 square kilometres
(9,650 square miles) in 1964 to less than 2,000 square kilometres
in 1990 -- the sort of problem that will be in the spotlight on
World Water Day on Thursday.


Designated by the UN General Assembly, the day has been observed
internationally every March 22 since 1993 to focus on problems
surrounding this precious commodity. This year's theme is water
scarcity, notably as global warming begins to bite.


For Lake Chad, climate change and increased human use of its
waters for fishing and agriculture are blamed for the fall in the
water level of what is the world's third largest totally
landlocked lake.


However, older residents of Bol, a town about 150 kilometres (90
miles) north of the capital N'Djamena, say the lake's rise and
fall is a cyclical phenomenon which occurs every 40 years.


"Children of today don't believe us but, we, who have seen the
two eras, are surprised," Youssouf Bodoum Bani, the head of Bol's
highest traditional regional authority said.


"Grandparents say to us that it's a cyclical phenomenon, every 40
years. The last rise in water level dates from the 1960s, at that
time everything was under water. And since, the water has
vanished little by little.


"We are awaiting the next rise but I admit that today I am
sceptical."


Two years ago, the lake's fate, as well as the plight of
fishermen and farmers whose livelihood depends on it prompted a
summit of African leaders in Abuja.


Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo said at the time that the
lake's problems and the consequences for the health and well-
being of the local people had been phenomenal.


Some 20 million people depend on the lake and its resources,
according to Anada Tiega, a technical adviser to the Lake Chad
Basin Commission, which also involves Chad's neighbours Cameroon,
Nigeria, Niger and Central African Republic.


Ironically, the immense patches of greenery that break up the
desert monotony around Bol by providing agricultural land to
sustain the local population also contribute to the lake's
reduction.


"They are polders," said local official Abderahim Adoum, of the
zones cultivated by farmers on what was once sandy terrain but is
irrigated by the waters of Lake Chad via a dam and pumping
system.


"I have only been able to have water for farming thanks to this
polder. If it didn't exist, life would be really difficult," 42
-year-old farmer Ali Boukar commented.


Local authorities insist that as well as providing people with
the means to stay in the region, the permanent irrigation system
allow farmers to reap two harvests a year.


"With the lowering in the level of the lake, the state decided to
do the irrigation to keep the populations in these areas and to
give them something to live on.


"If these polders were not laid out, they (the people) would have
to move to find farmable land," said Abakar Mahamat Khaila,
technical director of Sodelac, a state company which develops the
Chad lake area.


But experts closely following the shrinking of the lake in this
central African nation say the development of agricultural
activities are also partly to blame.


"Farming is of course a factor in the lowering of the level of
the lake," said Tiega.


Officials play down the impact of the irrigation. "We only take
water for the needs of farming," Abakar Mahamat Khaila said.
"These needs are markedly less than the effects of evaporation."


For Adoum, who has been navigating the lake for 17 years as a
fisherman and boatman, the effect of the drop in water level is
very clear to see. "With the fall of the water level, the grasses
overrun everything. It's very difficult to pass."


"It's barely three metres wide. Two outboard motors cannot even
pass each other," he said, just as two Nigerian dugout boats
laden down with goods appear in front of him.


Despite exchanging signals, the vessels cannot avoid bumping each
other.

