

Hong Kong ports-to-telecoms giant Hutchison Whampoa is expected
to report Thursday a 2006 net profit gain of some 40 percent,
underpinned by assets sale and an improved performance at its
loss-making 3G mobile operations.


The company, controlled by tycoon Li Ka-shing, is expected to
post a net profit of 20.28 billion dollars (2.6 billion US), up
from 14.34 billion dollars, according to 16 analysts polled by
Thomson Financial.


Analysts said robust growth in the ports business and higher
earnings from 35-percent held Canadian oil and natural-gas
company, Husky Energy, will also contribute to the company's
profitability.


The main area of concern will remain the third generation (3G)
business, which is expected to narrow its losses to 20-30 billion
dollars before interest expense and taxation, from the 36 billion
loss posted in 2005, analysts said.


Investors will be looking at how the company intends to achieve a
turnaround of the 3G business and also how it plans to spend the
cash from the sale of the group's stake in Indian unit Hutchison
Essar to British mobile giant Vodafone.


Morgan Stanley analyst Rob Hart cautioned that the continued sale
of Hutchison Whampoa assets raises concerns about the
sustainability of the company's core earnings growth going
forward.


"The continued sale of quality assets over the last few years,
while done at attractive prices, is already weighing on
sustainable earnings growth for the non-3G businesses," Hart
said.


"The cost of maintaining earnings despite 3G losses is beginning
to show in the operating line," he said.


In 2005, Hutchison recorded 25 billion dollar gains from disposal
of a stake in unit Hutchison Telecommunications International and
port assets.


The year before, it booked a 24 billion dollar gain from a spin-
off of Hutchison Telecom and on the revaluation of investment
properties.


While 3G losses have narrowed, the pace of its recovery could be
"slower than many had hoped," Hart said.


Meanwhile, Hong Kong property giant Cheung Kong (Holdings), which
holds 49.9 percent of Hutchison Whampoa, is expected to report a
net profit of 18.3 billion dollars, up 31 percent from 13.99
billion dollars, according 21 analysts polled by Thomson
Financial.


Analysts said a higher contribution from Hutchison and strong
property development income would have driven the company's
bottomline.


They believe Hutchison, which accounts for 56 percent of Cheung
Kong's gross asset value, will remain the key value driver for
its parent.


Morgan Stanley and UBS noted that that investors are likely to
focus more on the group's property portfolio and strategy in
China going forward as China earnings are becoming increasingly
vital for the group.

