

Australian health authorities have moved to rein in "Botox
cowboys" who stage parties where cosmetic surgery injections are
offered along with cocktails.


The booze and Botox bashes were replacing old-style Tupperware
parties where women were offered kitchenware, New South Wales
state Health Minister John Hatzistergos said Thursday.


"It is important that we should protect consumers and do
something about ensuring these Botox cowboys are put out of
business," Hatzistergos told reporters.


"The sort of deceptive advertising, the before and after shots,
the promotion of these sorts of treatments in social settings
where people are drinking alcohol and not in a position to be
able to make informed decisions, are totally inappropriate."


The procedures were being advertised on the Internet and
newspapers, and were being carried out by doctors and
beauticians, leading to a review of the cosmetic surgery industry
by the New South Wales state government.


"It is important to ensure that Botox treatment and cosmetic
treatment are carried out in an appropriate clinical
environment," Hatzistergos said.


"Doctors are health professionals and should act as health
professionals, not as used car salesmen."


Botched Botox procedures could have serious consequences and the
risks should be weighed up by the patient, said Australian
Society of Plastic Surgeons spokesman Cholm Williams.


"These are the sorts of things that happen if you have someone
who doesn't have thorough surgical training doing this sort of
work," Williams said.


"The problem with Botox is you're talking about paralysis in
areas of the face. It's not permanent, but you can look pretty
terrible for those three to four months if it's not in the areas
you want."


Botulinum Toxin Type A, commercially known as Botox, is a
powerful neurotoxin introduced nearly two decades ago.


It is used to cure some facial problems but is best known for its
cosmetic qualities in paralysing facial muscles and thus giving
foreheads a wrinkle-free appearance.

