

North Korea's chief nuclear envoy flew out of Beijing bound for
home Thursday after four days of deadlock in disarmament talks
here, an official with the airline told AFP.


"Kim Kye-Gwan was on the flight and it has left," said an
official with Air Koryo, who was in charge of boarding for the
3:00 pm (0700 GMT) departure but did not want to be named.


China's official Xinhua news agency reported earlier that the
six-nation talks could break up on Thursday in deadlock, as North
Korea had refused to negotiate until 25 million dollars in frozen
funds was returned to it.


However, a Chinese foreign ministry official at the talks press
centre told AFP after Kim arrived at the airport that no
announcement had yet been made on the end of the talks.


"As far as we know, the talks have not ended or gone into
recess," the official said.


Foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao also told reporters about
the same time that the talks had yet to be officially declared
over.


"I have not received any news that the six-party talks have
closed or adjourned," Liu said.


The United States, which froze the 25 million dollars in a Macau
bank in 2005 due to accusations of North Korean money laundering
and counterfeiting, said on Monday when talks started that it
would allow the cash to be returned.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill and other negotiators had
expected North Korea to be satisfied with the move, and that they
would spend the next few days fleshing out a roadmap for
disarmament.


But Kim refused to negotiate until the money was safely
transferred into a North Korean bank account in Beijing,
according to Hill and other envoys.


Due to a myriad of technical problems, the money was not sent
from Macau to the North Korean account.


Under a landmark six-nation accord signed on February 13, North
Korea agreed to shut down its main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon by
mid-April and allow UN inspectors back into the country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use, rising up to one million
tonnes if the disarmament accord is implemented in full.

