

US sales of music compact discs plummeted 20 percent in the first
three months of the year as downloading of songs continued to
knock the underpinnings from record studio revenues.


Eighty-nine million CDs were sold from the start of the year
through March 18 as compared with 112 million CDs sold during the
same period in 2006, according to figures released Wednesday by
industry tracker Nielsen SoundScan.


Purchases of digitized albums online failed to make up the
difference -- instead they dropped from 119 million during that
time period in 2006 to 99 million during the first three months
of this year, SoundScan reported.


Meanwhile, sales of individual songs in digital format on the
Internet rose from 242 million tracks during those months last
year to 288 million this year, according to SoundScan.


Consumers are sending a message to artists that "while you may
have put a lot of thought into the sequence of the album, I only
like these three songs," said digital music industry analyst
Michael McGuire of Gartner Research.


"It comes back to consumers being in complete control of their
media experience, and that is not going backwards," Gartner told
AFP while discussing the drop in album sales and the rise in
single-song track purchases.


"This is a tough business being a record label because they have
to find new sources of revenue."


Overall album purchases, calculated by considering every 10 track
sales the equivalent of an album, were down by 10 percent in the
first quarter this year from last year when 131 million albums
were sold, SoundScan figures showed.


Music industry statistics show that CD sales have declined
steadily for more than five years but still account for 90
percent of album purchases.


The relentless popularity of digital music downloads on the
Internet is taking the legs out from under CD sales and leaving
studios with nothing to stand on if they fail to adapt to online
distribution, McGuire said.


"The last couple of years the music industry didn't move fast
enough and they are trying to catch up now," McGuire said. "But,
the whole digital thing is a train that is picking up speed."


EMI and Warner Music, two of the world's four major studios, are
quickly investing in online "search, discovery and
recommendation" tools such as websites at which users share song
playlists and recommendations, McGuire said.


Instead of letting CD sales erode as they warily eye online forms
of distribution, studios should turn the Internet to their
advantage, according to McGuire.


Online communities can be courted and members given easy paths to
websites or real-world stores where music can be purchased.


"The imperative is for studios to find as many frictionless
transaction paths as possible for digital content," McGuire said.
"An important component is embracing discovery tools on social
networks."


Protecting music from piracy is an unavoidable burden of online
song distribution.


Music must also compete more than ever with computer games and
online video for people's "time, eye balls and wallet share,"
McGuire said.


A high-profile casualty of the shift to digital distribution of
music was the iconic Tower Records chain of stores started in
California in 1960.


Tower records closed its real-world stores in December of 2006
and exists as an online book, music and video stop at the website
www.tower.com.

