

The US and South Korean governments' bid to forge the world's
biggest free-trade agreement (FTA) in more than a decade will go
down to the wire next week.


After the latest round of informal talks wrapped up here
Wednesday, chief US negotiator Wendy Cutler said the two sides
were "closing in" on sensitive areas such as agriculture,
automobiles and pharmaceuticals.


In her talks with South Korean counterpart Kim Jong-Hoon, Cutler
said "some progress" was achieved in dossiers including
intellectual property rights and financial services. But a deal
remained elusive.


"However, we will be returning to Seoul next week with the aim
and determination of successfully concluding the KORUS (Korea-US)
FTA," the assistant US trade representative (USTR) told
reporters.


Kim, according to the Yonhap news agency, said there remained a
"mountain" to overcome.


But he was quoted as stressing to South Korean reporters here:
"There have been no mountains in South Korea that I have not been
able to climb over."


Under the US political calendar, it remains a tall order for the
two sides to clinch what would be the biggest FTA since the 1993
North American Free Trade Agreement linking the United States,
Canada and Mexico.


The Republican administration's authority to fast-track trade
agreements through Congress expires at the end of June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review.


But the two nations, allied in their decades-long standoff with
Stalinist North Korea, insist they are serious about tearing down
commercial barriers between the United States and its seventh-
biggest trading partner.


The US delegation for the talks next week with South Korean Trade
Minister Kim Hyun-Jong will be elevated to include Deputy USTR
Karan Bhatia.


The two sides have closed three chapters of the prospective trade
pact -- on customs, competition and government procurement.


Seven other chapters -- general services, financial services,
market access, transparency, telecommunications, e-commerce and
standards -- remain on the table.


The South Korean government has always faced bitter opposition to
the US trade talks from rice farmers, trade unionists and
students among others. But in Washington, criticism is also now
mounting.


There is particular anger over trade in autos, with US
manufacturers such as General Motors and Ford struggling against
Asian competition from the likes of South Korea's Hyundai.


The United States is saddled with an 11-billion-dollar deficit in
auto trade with South Korea, which is accused of shutting out US
vehicles through an array of tariff and other barriers.


Political anger was laid bare when Bhatia testified Tuesday at a
hearing of the House of Representatives ways and means trade
subcommittee, which examines issues of globalization and
commerce.


"We need a shift in negotiating strategy -- to an active,
results-oriented approach that demands and measures commitments
by the Korean government," said Sander Levin, the subcommittee's
Democratic chairman.


Bhatia warned that a failure to strike an FTA with South Korea
could damage US relations with East Asia as a whole.


To date, the United States has concluded two smaller FTAs in the
region, with Singapore and Australia. Talks with Malaysia,
meanwhile, have languished.


South Korea would be a much bigger prize, and Cutler reaffirmed
Wednesday the US team's determination to get a satisfactory deal.


"Let me assure you that we are pressing very hard in these
negotiations to achieve a deal that will be comprehensive, high
quality, and will receive the support of our stakeholders in
Congress."

