

France faces a stretch of "soft growth" of 0.5-0.6 percent in the
first two quarters of 2007 amid sluggish worldwide momentum in
response to a downturn in the US housing market, French
statistics body INSEE predicted Thursday.


The institute, in a review of economic prospects, said that in
annual terms the French economy should expand by close to 2.0
percent in the first half of the year, equalling growth in 2006.


INSEE economist Eric Dubois described the expected pace over the
first two quarters as "soft growth" in a less positive
international environment, reflecting concerns over the health of
the US housing market.


New US home construction, which showed a surprising rebound in
February, fell steadily last year as the market was buffeted by
rising interest rates and slowing demand following years of
spectacular growth that had unleashed a speculative frenzy in
some cities.


Despite February's solid performance, stock markets remain
jittery about the fate of sub-prime mortgage lenders in the
United States.


A number of such lenders, who make loans to borrowers with weak
credit ratings, are in difficulty because of defaults, sparking
fears in some quarters that weakness in the housing sector could
infect the broader US economy.


INSEE noted that growth in the world's principal industrialised
countries would likely slow in the first half of the year to an
annual 2.0 percent after coming close to 3.0 percent at the end
of 2006.


That trend is likely to weigh on the value of French exports,
which should increase at a slower rate than in late 2006 and much
slower than imports.


The foreign trade sector should shave about 0.2 points off growth
in the first two quarters, according to INSEE.


The expected gain in imports reflects healthy French consumer
spending, powered by purchasing power advances in the face of
lower taxes, tame inflation and increased employment.


Business investment should increase by 3.0 percent in the first
half.


INSEE predicted economic expansion of 0.5 percent in the first
quarter and 0.6 percent in the second but warned that its
forecasts could be upset by a sharper- than-expected slowdown in
the United States and stepped up "risk aversion" on world
financial markets.


Under a more positive scenario, France could enjoy stronger
momentum in the event of a growth spurt in the eurozone or a
stronger-than-expected gain in consumer spending.


INSEE also said the macroeconomic impact of upcoming presidential
and legislative elections in France in April and May was not
perceptible.

