

North Korea's food reserves have almost dried up, leaving some
people starving and aggravating malnutrition across the
impoverished nation, a South Korean aid agency warned Thursday.


Good Friends, which focuses on assistance to the North, said up
to 70 percent of food stored by city residents has been used up
due to a poor harvest last year and insufficent foreign food aid.


"There are no concerns about a famine like that in the mid-1990s
but the chronic food shortage has been aggravating malnutrition,"
Noh Ok-Jae, secretary-general of the Seoul-based agency, told
AFP.


The famine killed hundreds of thousands of people. The regime
blamed it on natural disasters, but analysts said the inefficient
state-directed agriculture and distribution system also played a
large part.


The country has received major foreign food aid since the mid-
1990s but its citizens still suffer persistent food shortages.


"A poorer-than-expected harvest last year has led to reduced
rations among city dwellers who have no farmable land. Some
people are starving," said Noh, quoting her agency's contacts in
the North.


In January, the North released military food supplies to city
workers for the first time following a special order from leader
Kim Jong-Il, she said.


"The unprecedented move proves the North's situation is very
serious."


North Korea may face a shortage of at least 1.5 million tons of
food this year, she said, adding the situation could become more
serious if foreign countries withhold aid.


"Many North Koreans are desperately waiting for more foreign food
aid, which they believe will arrive after six-party talks in
Beijing," Noh said, referring to ongoing negotiations aimed at
dismantling the North's nuclear weapons programme in return for
energy and other concessions.


International bodies have continued their aid but face increasing
problems raising donations from the public due to disenchantment
over its nuclear and other weapons programmes.


South Korea, the largest donor, suspended its regular annual
shipments of 500,000 tons of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser
after the North's missile launches last July, and special aid for
flood victims was also halted.


But Seoul announced Thursday that it would resume emergency aid
to flood victims. It also agreed to resume fertiliser aid after
Pyongyang agreed last month at the six-nation talks to dismantle
its nuclear programme.

