

Stung by a mounting number of deaths on increasingly clogged and
unsafe roads, the bustling Gulf emirate of Dubai has declared war
on reckless drivers.


Almost a million cars throng the highways of the booming city
state with a population of around 1.4 million, and that number is
set to keep rising as thousands of people move to Dubai every
year to claim a stake in its economic success.


According to Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority (RTA), 312
people died in road accidents last year, an increase of 32
percent from 2005. This gives the emirate one of the world's
highest road mortality rates -- 21.9 per 100,000 inhabitants.


The World Health Organisation says deaths from road accidents
average 11 per 100,000 inhabitants in western Europe, climbing to
28 in Africa and 41-42 in El Salvador or the Dominican Republic.


The number of people injured in Dubai traffic accidents was 2,940
last year, up from 2,566 in 2005.


Traffic jams in Dubai -- one of seven making up the United Arab
Emirates -- are compounded by a strained, albeit expanding, road
network and the near absence of public transport.


Little wonder that four-by-four vehicles are popular among
frustrated drivers keen to swap congested streets for desert
dunes at weekends.


But now traffic chiefs are determined to tackle the growing
accident problem which they say is caused mainly by speeding,
dangerous overtaking, driving too close to the car ahead and
drink-driving.


According to Dubai police figures cited in the local press, the
number of people killed in drink-driving accidents rose to 75 in
2006 from 13 in 2005, a rise of some 500 percent, despite a ban
on driving after any intake of alcohol.


The government launched a campaign in November aimed at making
the roads safer.


Dubbed "You Decide!," it aims to "turn Dubai into one of the
world's 10 safest cities (for driving) within five years,"
Mohammad Seif al-Zafin, director of Dubai police's traffic
department, said.


The campaign reduced monthly deaths on the roads to 19 in
November, but the number rose to 25 the following month.


"Despite the ongoing campaign, careless drivers remain a
problem," said Dubai police chief Lieutenant General Dhahi
Khalfan Tamim.


Authorities have given out special telephone numbers and asked
the public to inform on reckless drivers. Local newspapers have
also published pictures of drivers caught breaking traffic rules
by fixed or mobile radars.


Traffic camera pictures of drivers running red lights or
exceeding the speed limit have become an almost daily sight in
local newspapers, which also show the offenders' number plates.


Soccer fans still celebrating the success of the UAE's Gulf Cup
victory earlier this year will also be targeted as part of the
traffic crackdown.


Cars with windscreens obscured by pictures of the winning side
and UAE flags are a no-no, according to police, as are heavily
tinted windows.


Penalties have been toughened and authorities plan to make the
cost of reckless driving even more prohibitive.


A draft law still to be approved by the federal government
provides for a fine of 2,000 dirhams (545 dollars, 400 euros) and
12 points on the driving licence for running a red light,
compared with 500 dirhams (136 dollars) and five points now.


Twenty-four points and a licence is lost for a year.


Drivers caught breaking the law will also be notified of the
penalty by email within 10 minutes of the infraction -- a first
in the Gulf region.

