

Sponsors of a UN Security Council draft resolution to tighten
sanctions on Iran agreed to meet Thursday to consider amendments
after Tehran warned world powers it will defend its right to
nuclear power.


It was unclear when the draft would be put to a vote. Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said he wants to address the
council on the issue before the votes are cast.


The draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for voluntary
trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and companies
targeted for financial and travel restrictions, toughening
sanctions already imposed in December.


The 15-member Council held closed-door consultations Wednesday on
the text, which the council's five veto-wielding members (P5) --
Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus
Germany agreed last week.


Council members are to meet Thursday to consider an amended draft
which the sponsors promised to produce based on changes offered
by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


Western powers fear Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, though Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
purposes.


In Iran, supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei remained defiant.


Iran "will use all its capabilities to respond to threats and to
the use of force and violence," he warned in a televised speech
broadcast Wednesday from the holy city of Mashhad.


"If they want to use threats, to resort to force and violence,
then without a doubt the people and the authorities will use all
their capabilities to strike the enemies," Khamenei said


Khamenei also denounced what he called "exploitation of the
Security Council" by world powers over Iran's uranium enrichment
program.


Earlier Wednesday Ahmadinejad attacked "Zionists who dominate the
world" in a message marking the Iranian new year, or Nowruz, and
said Iran was determined to defend its position in the nuclear
standoff.


Washington confirmed on Monday it had granted visas to
Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and bodyguards to travel to New York,
though it was unclear when the vote will be held.


Both Qatari Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz al-Nasser and South
African ambassador Dumisani Kumalo did not believe the vote would
come up this week. "We need more time because this is a very
sensitive issue," said the Qatari envoy.


South Africa dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the early
1990s during its transition from white minority rule, and has
consistently defended Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful
purposes.


Kumalo said the draft must respect Iran's "right to the peaceful
use of nuclear (energy)" and assert the leading role of the
International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring
agency, in determining the nature of the Iranian atomic program.


South Africa, which took up its non-permanent Security Council
seat in January, has acted as a mediator in the nuclear standoff
with Iran.


Separately Iran's UN envoy rejected the idea, put forth by some
diplomats, of a concurrent suspension of sanctions and Tehran's
uranium enrichment as a way to defuse the showdown.


"Suspension, in the best-case scenario is a two month band-aid.
What would happen at the end of two months?" Ambassador Javad
Zarif said, addressing a policy conference on Iran by video link
to the US capital.


France's UN Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere said after
closed-door Council consultations that the draft had "strong
support" among members.


But he added that the co-sponsors were willing to incorporate
some of the amendments as they "could give clarity to the text
and improve (it)."


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


However draft sponsors rejected a South African proposal for a
90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political negotiations
with Tehran.


De La Sabliere said the proposal was "not consistent with the
text, the Security Council approach, which is an incremental
approach based on the idea that more pressure on Iran is needed."


In Washington, US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said he
hoped the resolution would act as a "vise" that would start to
isolate Tehran from the rest of the world and force Iran to
"think twice" about its options.

