

Hundreds of terrified Somalis fled Mogadishu on Thursday, after a
government crackdown on insurgents triggered the heaviest
fighting since Islamists were driven from power in the capital in
January.


A day after at least 14 people were killed, including soldiers
who were dragged and burned in the street, Prime Minister Ali
Mohamed Gedi ordered civilians to leave areas in southern
Mogadishu "for security reasons", raising already palpable
tensions.


An AFP correspondent heard exchanges of gunfire in southern
Mogadishu, where an Ethiopian soldier was seen firing rounds of
bullets into the air.


"The fighting in Mogadishu will not stop until we defeat them
(the insurgents)," deputy defence minister Salad Ali Jelle told a
news conference.


"We will pursue our aim of stabilizing Mogadishu. This plan will
not be hampered by a few individuals," he added.


The government has announced a crackdown on insurgents, sparking
heavy fighting Wednesday in which at least 14 people, including
six soldiers, were killed. The soldiers were dragged through the
streets and their bodies set alight.


AFP correspondents reported that hundreds of residents were
leaving southern Mogadishu, vowing not to return until the city
returned to calm.


"All the fighting sides are making warlike statements and are
preparing for war," said Amina Sabriye, a mother of six, as she
fled from Shirkole neighbourhood in southern Mogadishu.


"The worst decision is to stay one more day in Mogadishu."


"I have never seen a mass exodus at this scale in the recent
years," said 86 -year-old Mohamed Mukhtar Sadiq.


The Hawiye clan, seen as the instigators of the insurgency, on
Thursday rejected the prime minister's order to leave and accused
the government of planning an assault against the clan.


Most of the Islamist fighters driven out of Mogadishu and much of
southern and central Somalia in January by Ethiopian-Somali
forces are from the Hawiye clan.


"We see this war as an act of agression," said Ahmed Dirie,
spokesman for the clan.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

