

Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf faces no immediate threat
to his rule despite violent protests over his removal of a top
judge, a senior US State Department official said Wednesday.


"I don't think it's too much of a question of (Musharraf) being
toppled or serious unrest in country," the official said when
asked whether Washington was concerned that growing protests
could lead to the military ruler's overthrow.


"It doesn't seem that way at the moment. I don't see any signs of
that," said the official, speaking to reporters on condition of
anonymity, as Musharraf came under increasing pressure to quit
over the judicial crisis.


But the United States, the official stressed, was concerned that
the judicial crisis could be "opportunity for critics to say that
this is a political manipulation and not something based on a
factual problem."


Musharraf, a key US ally in the "war on terror," is facing the
biggest crisis of his eight years in power since ordering the
suspension of Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on March
9.


In the US House of Representatives Wednesday, the administration
of President George W. Bush came under fire for relying heavily
on Musharraf instead of prodding for greater democratic progress
in the nuclear state.


The judicial crisis "highlights the fact that the return of
Pakistan to democracy is an issue that has slipped in emphasis if
not in actual importance," said Democratic Representative Gary
Ackerman.


"The administration seems content to only speak with President
Musharraf and portrays him as the indispensable man. The truth
is, for our goals to be achieved in Pakistan there should be more
than one phone number there to dial," he said, chairing a House
panel hearing on US policy on Pakistan.


Elections in Pakistan are scheduled for later this year or early
next year, "but if past is prologue, these elections will be no
freer and no fairer than any others," Ackerman said.


Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council, comprising senior judges, is
to hold a hearing into Musharraf's allegations of misconduct and
abuse of office against Chaudhry beginning on April 3.


The senior State Department official said it was "hard to render
judgment on the whole proces" until the hearing was held and
called on the Pakistani authorities to let the council "do its
work as it is designed to do.


"What we have said is we are concerned, we are watching
carefully, we want them to proceed very carefully. We will follow
this turn by turn as it proceeds," he said.


The official warned that the allegations against the chief
justice were serious and could be easily be misconstrued as
political.


Chaudhry's removal has sparked violent protests across Pakistan
as well as the resignation of eight judges and a deputy attorney
general.


Opposition supporters have suggested that Musharraf wants to
weaken the judiciary to make it easier to pass potentially
controversial legislation ahead of the upcoming presidential and
parliamentary elections.


The US official said one of the assets Pakistan had was "a
judicial process with some integrity" and that it was "something
we have often pointed to being an important part of Pakistan's
makeup despite the military government."


Although Musharraf has been a stalwart US ally, there are some
costs for Washington in focusing its policy solely on supporting
him, especially if he alienated the secular, moderate political
forces in order to tighten his own grip on power, said Lisa
Curtis of the Washington-based Heritage Foundation.


She told the congressional hearing Wednesday that there was a
need for the United States to "extend contacts and visibility
with a variety of civilian leaders" in Pakistan.


"It would indeed be tragic if, in seeking to win over Musharraf
and his military, we lost Pakistan," warned Marvin Weinbaum of
the Middle East Institute, another Washington-based think tank.

