

Natalie Coughlin is perhaps the most versatile swimmer in the
world, and she is also one of the most dominant.


Few competitors can match what the 24-year-old Californian does,
and at the World Swimming Championships in Melbourne next week
she will race in three different strokes.


The world record holder in the 100m backstroke will also swim the
50- and 100-metre freestyles and the 100m butterfly.


The only stroke she is not attempting is the breaststroke and
Australia's Leisel Jones is so dominant in those events that
Coughlin is keeping her distance.


She sees her toughest task as the 100m freestyle which she
predicted would be so fast that swimmers may break the world
record just to get to the final, with Australia's Jodie Henry and
Libby Lenton leading the pack.


"I wouldn't be surprised if someone did something really special
in that semi- final, a world record or something," she said
recently of an event that she won silver in at the last
championships two years ago.


"It's going to be a fight just to make that top eight."


But while Coughlin is one of the best swimmers out there, she is
well-versed in world championship disappointment.


At the last worlds in Montreal, Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry
shocked her by snatching the 100m backstroke title with Coughlin
relegated to third.


Two years before in Barcelona, armed with her 100m backstroke
world mark and ranked among the world's best in the 100m
freestyle and 100m butterfly, she seemed poised to better her
single 100m backstroke gold from the 2001 worlds.


But sickness hampered her progress and she finished the
championships with just two relay medals - a 4x100m freestyle
gold and 4x100m medley silver.


Now swimming in her fourth world championships, Coughlin will
also lead America's 4x100m freestyle relay team, rated as the
frontrunners for gold.


She said she felt better prepared than at any other meeting and
was excited to be swimming with so many top women threatening
world records.


"A lot of the stroke changes that I have been making over the
past couple of years, I feel like they are finally coming
together," she said.


"I think it's just an exciting time to be a female sprinter and
everyone is jumping on the bandwagon and trying to prove their
best against the best in the world."


Coughlin's breakout year was 2001 when she captured her first
major title at the world championships in Fukuoka, Japan.


She went on to win five medals at the Athens Olympics, including
two gold, and is the only woman to break the one-minute barrier
in the 100m backstroke.


Coughlin currently owns 22 international medals.

