

North Korean nuclear disarmament talks could break up on
Thursday, China's state-run Xinhua news agency said, as Pyongyang
refused to proceed until it receives 25 million dollars in frozen
funds.


Xinhua quoted an unnamed member of one of the six delegations
that have been in Beijing since Monday in an effort to move the
tortuous six-party talks forward as saying the negotiations would
come to an end.


Chief Russian envoy Alexander Losyukov was planning to leave
Beijing on Thursday, Xinhua also said, giving no source.


Meanwhile, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported that North
Korea's chief negotiator Kim Kye-Gwan was also scheduled to
return home on Thursday.


"The chances are growing for the talks to be suspended," a source
close to the talks told reporters in the Chinese capital, also
pointing out that Losyukov needed to return home.


The source said the stumbling block -- North Korea's demand that
it receive the frozen funds before resuming discussions on last
month's disarmament deal -- "cannot be settled in a day or two."


The United States, which froze the 25 million dollars in a Macau
bank in 2005 due to accusations of North Korean money laundering
and counterfeiting, said at the beginning of the week it would
allow the money to be returned.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill and other negotiators in the six-
nation talks had expected North Korea to be satisfied with the
move, and that they would spend the next few days fleshing out a
roadmap for disarmament.


But, due to a myriad of technical problems, the money has not
been sent from Macau to a North Korean account with the Bank of
China in Beijing, leaving the envoys frustrated and left with
little to do but sit in their hotel rooms.


An official involved in the talks said on Wednesday the transfer
was taking a long time partly because some North Korean bank
account owners had died or were not living in Macau.


Under a six-nation accord signed on February 13, North Korea
agreed to initially shut down its main nuclear reactor at
Yongbyon by mid-April and allow UN inspectors back into the
country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, would eventually receive one million tonnes of
heavy fuel or equivalent energy aid if it permanently dismantled
its nuclear weapons programme.

