

Australia may find it tougher to qualify for the World Cup
against Asian teams than previous campaigns in Oceania,
goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer warned on Thursday.


Schwarzer, one of three Middlesbrough players to arrive late at a
training camp here for Saturday's friendly with China, said the
long-haul flights and unfamiliar conditions could take their
toll.


"It's going to be difficult. We never said it's going to be easy
-- if anything it's going to be harder to be part of Asia,"
Schwarzer said.


"But we think it's going to be the way for us to be involved in
the World Cup more consistently."


Australia are playing China ahead of their Asian Cup debut this
year and are facing their first World Cup qualifying campaign in
the region after shifting from the Oceania zone.


Schwarzer, understudy Brad Jones and striker Mark Viduka
completed the 20-man squad early on Wednesday after Monday's FA
Cup semi-final defeat to Manchester United.


"In one way it's what we always wanted -- we want to be part of
Asia and this is what is consists of. We're finding out first-
hand now the sort of travel we're going to incur," he said.


The 34-year-old 'keeper also said playing China in Guangzhou
would give Australia a good idea of what awaits them at the Asian
Cup, where they will be among the favourites.


"China are a pretty good side and they're one of the teams that's
going to be playing to win the Asian Cup so it will be a pretty
good indication for us how we come up against them," he said.


Schwarzer said he was hoping to play a part in the next World
Cup, and played down reports that veteran striker Viduka is
planning to retire after the Asian Cup.


But he said Australia urgently needed to appoint a permanent
coach. Graham Arnold is in charge of the team on a temporary
basis until the end of the Asian Cup.


"We know a decision needs to be made as soon as possible --
whether Arnie gets it full-time or even if he wants it, that
needs to be done as soon as possible after the Asian Cup," he
said.

