

From the north of Finland to southern Greece, the people of the
European Union give their views of Europe, 50 years after the
founding Treaty of Rome:


AMSTERDAM: Marianne Visser, a 21-year-old student at the
Amsterdam Free University who has just returned from a year's
study at Britain's Leicester University:


"Europe gives me a sense of belonging, even though each country
has its particularities. When I am abroad, especially outside of
Europe, I introduce myself as a European first and then as Dutch.
I notice during my travels that Europeans have things in common.
There is better understanding between Dutch, French and Germans
than there would be with Americans, for example."


BERLIN: Ipek Ipekcioglu, or DJ Ipek, a 34-year-old German disc
jockey born in Munich to Turkish immigrant parents:


"The European Union is a brilliant concept, as long as it's an
association where each country can bring its differences. I'm
against an exclusive Christian club. For that matter, I think
that even the Arab countries could become members."


NAD ZLICHOVEM, Czech Republic: Otokar Chaloupka, the 71-year-old
retired former director of the Czech Academy of Sciences:


"It is only through the EU that Europe can compete against the
United States. Even the larger states like France and Germany can
not do it alone. In 20 or 30 years, we will face China as a
dominant economic force and only the EU will be capable of doing
so."


LOMAZZO, Italy: Sara Galli, the 40-year-old head of family shoe
company Calzaturificio Brunate, which employs 70 people near Como
in northern Italy:


"The European Union represents a source of uncertainty rather
than protection against unfair competition from China or Vietnam
... Europe should help us make the 'Made in Italy' (label)
valuable, but it doesn't. At Brunate we make every part of our
shoes in Italy. I represent the third generation and compared
with the situation my predecessors were in I think the situation
today is more difficult."


CRUAS, France: Daniel Bacon, 53, who works for state power
company Electricite de France at the Cruas nuclear plant in
southeast France:


"I am not anti-European. I believe that in the world in which we
live we are stronger when we stand together. But Europe is mainly
an economic alliance that excludes social aspects and where only
profits count.


"Another thing that bothers me is that many of the political
decisions are taken in the name of Europe, which serves as an
alibi for the government when it suits it, to drag down
standards."


GDANSK, Poland: Andrzej Kolas, 56, who has for 37 years been
working in the ship yards where the Solidarite movement was born:


"In my case, joining (the EU) has not changed much, except for
the freedom to travel. My daughter recently visited Italy, France
and the Benelux countries. During the communist era that would
have been impossible for a worker.


"To live better, European aid is not enough. One must work hard.
I see however that Gdansk roads are being built thanks to
European assistance. I am sure that my children and my
grandchildren will have better lives than me precisely because
Poland is a member of the EU."


KALAVRYTA, Greece: Athanassios Papadopoulos, a 53-year-old maker
of traditional feta cheese in the western Peloponnese:


"The European Union is necessary for small countries. It helps us
maintain favourable conditions in the face of competition from
the majors. Today the EU needs to continue to protect us against
Germany, Britain, France, which sometimes try to impose their
choices on us ... It also must block the Danes from obtaining an
extension for their feta production. Feta is Greek and needs to
stay that way."


SODANKYLAE, Finland: Pekka Aikio, a 60-year-old reindeer breeder
and the president of Finland's Sami (i.e Lapp) parliament:


"We, the Sami people, do not live in Europe on a daily basis,
even though we have used the euro since 2002. At the time (of
Finland's) accession, a majority of Sami were opposed, probably
due to our close links to Norway, which refused to join. But
today we have better relations with Brussels than with Helsinki.
When we go to Tromsoe in Norway or Kiruna in Sweden, we say 'I'm
going to Tromsoe,' not 'to Norway,' 'I'm going to Kiruna,' not
'to Sweden,' because we do not recognise the countries, the
borders, and, in my opinion, the spirit of Europe is the same."


BUCHAREST: Gelu Duminica, the 30-year-old leader of Impreuna
(Together), an Romany rights group:


"Belonging to the EU should not be limited to sharing economic
advantages, but should especially impose the respect of European
values and norms. (In Romania), where the dictionary defines the
word 'gypsy' as 'a person with blameworthy habits,' this remains
a utopia."


BARCELONA, Spain: Mustapha Drame, 37, an illegal immigrant from
Nigeria:


"The dream has not become reality. What I had imagined and what I
see are different. I thought that in Europe there would be lots
of work. But since I am at the moment without papers I can only
find work, as a mason at construction sites, three or four days
per month. In Europe, you can live better than in Africa if you
have your papers in order and if you work. If not, it's hard..."

