

Police in Indonesia said Thursday they had uncovered explosives,
guns and thousands of ammunition rounds following a deadly raid
on suspected militants from an Al-Qaeda-linked terror group.


The arsenal was found early Wednesday at a house in a village
outside Yogyakarta thanks to information gleaned from a raid
carried out late Tuesday in the central city, police spokesman
Sisno Adiwinoto said.


Police found 625 kilogrammes (0.6 tonnes) of potassium, which can
be used to make explosives, 200 detonators and 20 kilogrammes of
TNT in a bunker under the house in Sukoharjo, 100 kilometres (60
miles) east of Yogyakarta, he said.


They also found 16 grenade launchers, an assault rifle, guns and
more than 2000 bullets.


On Tuesday, one man was shot dead, one injured and several
arrested in the anti- terror raid in Yogyakarta, which police
said was aimed at suspects believed to be members of the regional
terror group Jemaah Islamiyah (JI).


JI has been blamed for a string of attacks, including the
bombings on the resort island of Bali in 2002 and 2005.


State media quoted intelligence chief Syamsir Siregar as saying
that four suspects were taken into custody following Tuesday's
operation, including the injured man.


"Police are still trying to locate Abu Dujana's hideouts,"
Siregar said in the Antara news agency report, referring to the
man thought to lead JI.


"To be sure, five of his accomplices have been caught in a raid
in which one of them was killed and another injured," he said.


The four arrested suspects have been taken to the national police
headquarters in the capital Jakarta for questioning, the report
said.


Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation, has
suffered a number of terror attacks blamed on JI and other
suspected Islamic militants it is trying to capture.


Apart from the Bali bombings, JI has also been accused of roles
in the August 2003 Marriott Hotel and September 2004 Australian
embassy attacks in Jakarta.


The United States says the group aims to establish a pan-Islamic
state in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

