

Medical professionals from Taiwan called on the United States
Wednesday to help convince the European Union and other key
countries to support the island's entry into the World Health
Organization (WHO).


They made the call in meetings with US government officials in
Washington as part of their campaign for Taiwan's membership in
the global health body ahead of the annual World Health Assembly,
which decides WHO membership, in May.


In 2006 Beijing, which considers Taiwan to be a part of China,
thwarted Taipei's 10th consecutive bid to join WHO. China
systematically seeks to thwart any initiative by Taiwan to gain
international recognition as an independent political entity.


The United States and Japan have pushed for Taiwan's observer
status at WHO over the past years, but only 25 of the 190 member
nations backed Taipei, said Wu Shuh-Min, president of the
Foundation of Medical Professionals Alliance in Taiwan, an
umbrella group of physicians.


He said the EU and Canada for example were only willing to
support Taiwan's "meaningful participation" in the WHO, including
participation in the organization's global outbreak alert and
response network, a mechanism for the rapid identification,
confirmation and response to international disease outbreaks.


"However after our striving for participation, we found that
Taiwan must acquire the membership of WHO, otherwise the
'meaningful participation' would be meaningless due to China's
political obstruction," Wu said.


"Therefore we appeal to the United States to use its clout to
urge the world to support Taiwan become a full member of WHO," he
said.


Wu warned the international community that by keeping Taiwan away
from the WHO mainstream and the global health network, they were
raising the risk of diseases spreading further.


He said some 1,206 people from Taiwan traveled to China daily
compared with 1,626 to the United States, carrying the risk of
conveying diseases from China to America.


"Once there is a pandemic disease outbreak in China, it will
spread to US and other countries in 24 hours," he said.


"This is not a political issue but a health issue and a human
rights issue," Wu said.


Taiwan was evicted from the WHO in 1972, a year after losing the
"China" seat in the United Nations to Beijing.


Washington switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China
in 1979 but under US law, it is obliged to offer the island a
means of self-defense if its security is threatened.

