

When Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw founded Biocon India in 1978 with 10,000
rupees (225 dollars, 170 euros) and an office in a rented car
garage, no banker was willing to give her a loan.


Back then, no one had heard of biotechnology, which uses micro-
organisms such as bacteria or biological substances like enzymes
to make drugs and synthetic hormones.


Women entrepreneurs were also rare and finding recruits willing
to work under a female boss was difficult.


Mazumdar-Shaw, hailed in 2004 as India's richest woman with a
personal fortune of 21 billion rupees, and Biocon, India's
biggest biotech firm with 3,000 employees, have come a long way
from the garage.


The businesswoman, who will turn 54 on Friday, is now setting her
sights beyond the domestic market, despite the company's 29
percent annual growth rate, estimated to touch five billion
dollars by 2010.


"I see myself and Biocon as being a biotech company in a
leadership position on the global stage," Mazumdar-Shaw told AFP
in an interview in Bangalore.


"We are on the right track to getting there," added the
entrepreneur, who plans to double research spending every year to
discover new drugs and enter the league of giants such as Amgen
and Genentech.


It won't be easy.


Biocon had 7.93 billion rupees of revenue in the fiscal year
ended March 31. Amgen, the world's biggest biotech firm, logged
14.8 billion dollars of sales last year.


Mazumdar-Shaw is linking the future of Biocon to the discovery of
new drugs that depend on expensive and risky research. It is a
big shift for the company, which was built on the business of
generic drugs like cholesterol-lowering statins it exports to the
United States, Europe and Japan.


The shift presents a huge challenge to the company.


"It's a great corporate vision, but very far off," said a Mumbai-
based fund manager who tracks Biocon but who asked to remain
unnamed.


As competition increases, Biocon faces reduced cash flows for
spending on new drug discoveries, while it's doubtful if India
has sufficiently skilled people to do cutting-edge research in
biotechnology, the fund manager said.


Mazumdar-Shaw, however, hopes her army of scientists will provide
a breakthrough "as soon as possible."


Biocon's existing products include medicines to treat diabetes,
high blood pressure, high cholesterol, cancer, as well as
digestive aids. It is India's largest producer of human insulin.


It is now aiming to produce the world's first oral insulin, as
well as drugs to treat ailments ranging from rheumatoid arthritis
to lung cancer and brain tumours.


-- Early Roots --


Biocon started as an industrial enzymes company, with its first
product being an enzyme -- which is used to speed up industrial
chemical reactions -- extracted from papaya.


The firm remained a producer of industrial enzymes for 20 years
before branching out into biotech medicines.


"It's only a nine-year process in which we have come to what we
are today," Mazumdar-Shaw said. "We have positioned ourselves as
a very high-quality player in the global context."


Her father was a master brewer who encouraged her to enter the
profession, after she graduated with a zoology degree from
Bangalore University in 1973.


She joined Melbourne's Ballarat University in Australia and
became India's first woman brewmaster in 1975.


Back home, she worked as a brewing consultant for two years
before heading for a job in Britain where she met Leslie
Auchincloss, head of Biocon Biochemicals of Ireland, who was
planning to start an Indian unit.


She came home again in 1978, not heeding advice from family and
friends that it was foolhardy for a woman to venture into an
unknown business and give up a secure overseas job.


Soon enough, applications for bank funding were rejected and
potential recruits spurned job offers.


She ended up starting out with just a friend -- who doubled as
secretary -- and three unskilled workers on the joint venture.


In 1989, chemical giant Unilever acquired Biocon Biochemicals in
Ireland and merged it with its subsidiary Quest International.


As part of a reorganisation in 1998, Unilever agreed to sell its
shareholding of 30 percent in Biocon India to Mazumdar-Shaw,
making the Indian company an independent entity.


In March 2004 an initial public offering of shares received
demand for 30 times the amount on offer, and left Mazumdar-Shaw
with a 40 percent stake, making her the country's richest woman.


The average age of Biocon employees is 28 and the employee
turnover rate, in a country where young professionals hopping
jobs for better pay has become the bane of the corporate world,
is just one percent annually.


"She's very focused, empathetic and trusts people," said Rakesh
Bamzai, marketing president, who has worked with Biocon for 13
years. "Kiran also believes in giving something back to the
employees and the society."


Eight years ago, Mazumdar-Shaw married a Scotsman and Indophile,
John Shaw, who was then with a textile firm called Madura Coats
as chairman and managing director. He moved to Biocon to head its
international business division.


"She is very strong, has got amazing stamina," Shaw said. "She
still wants to do many things, there's a lot of ambition still
left to fulfil."


To crack the global big league, Biocon needs a breakthrough
product.


Oral insulin to treat diabetes may hold the key, said the fund
manager who tracks the company. India alone has 32 million
diabetics.


"That's a very, very large market and it will make insulin a lot
cheaper because Biocon can leverage on its existing expertise in
insulin," he said. "It's a story three-to-four years into the
future but it's a potential blockbuster."


Mazumdar-Shaw, an art collector who also authored "Ale and Arty,"
a book about beer, is counting on her team of medical experts,
biologists, chemists and pharmacologists.


"If our research programme delivers the kind of results we
expect, it's going to be a very, very bright future," she said.

