

Oil prices rose in Asian trade Thursday as the market digested
news of higher- than-expected falls in US gasoline (petrol)
stocks, dealers said.


At 11:21 am (0321 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 43 cents to 60.04
dollars a barrel from 59.61 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery gained 43 cents to 61.20
dollars.


"We are heading toward the gasoline peak season (during the US
driving season) ... We have one of the steepest falls in gasoline
inventories this year and this is bullish for the market,"
Mitsubishi Corp energy risk manager Tony Nunan said from Tokyo.


US gasoline inventories fell 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million
in the week to March 16. The market had expected a fall of only
two million barrels.


Nunan said falls were steeper last year but they came later.


"We have stronger implied gasoline demand this year ahead of the
peak (driving) season," he said.


"Right now people are a bit worried about the level of storage
for gasoline," Jason Schenker at Wachovia Securities said during
US trading hours.


"There is an upside risk for oil prices as refiners want to
refine more. It's much more profitable to refine gasoline right
now."


US crude inventories meanwhile rose four million barrels to 329.3
million, higher than analysts' forecasts for a gain of one
million barrels.


Distillate inventories, which include heating oil and diesel,
dropped 1.7 million barrels to 118.7 million, slightly more than
predicted.


Oil has steadied after heavy falls last week amid fresh stock
market turmoil and fears of a potential US economic slowdown.


Dealers said a recovery on world stock markets has supported
investor sentiment in crude this week.


"The stock markets have been strong for the last couple of days.
There's a feeling that the economy is not going to fall apart,"
Nunan said.


At the same time, concerns over key producer Iran have
resurfaced.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was to plead Tehran's case
this week before the United Nations Security Council, which is
considering tightening sanctions on the Islamic republic over
fears it is seeking nuclear weapons.


Should the international community respond by punishing Iran with
economic sanctions, Iran might decide to curtail its oil exports,
according to some experts.

