

Leisel Jones is the undisputed breaststroke queen of world
swimming and victories at the World Swimming Championships are
almost certain.


The Australian's prime focus is world records.


The 21-year-old from Brisbane has turned her career around since
the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, where she finished with silver and
bronze in the breaststroke events after going in as the
favourite.


She changed coaches soon after Athens and has since gone on to
smash world records in the 100 and 200 metres, as well as winning
three gold medals at the 2005 world championships.


Jones raised the bar for her rivals when she twice set new 100m
breaststroke world records (1:05.09) last year, as well as
swimming the fastest 200m breaststroke (2:20.54) in history.


It puts her on the verge of taking the records into the
unchartered waters of 1:04 and 2:19, such is her overpowering
form.


Her coach Stephan Widmer says she has only just begun to tap her
potential.


"I really believe female breaststroke should be faster, much
faster as well," Widmer said.


"Especially some of the abilities I see in this young girl. She's
only 21, so looking at the maturity of female athletes,
especially their strength level, how can this be the end?


"In the future it (the records) can be way beyond what it is
right now."


Jones burst onto the scene at the Sydney Olympic trials aged just
14 when she won the 100m breaststroke title and became the
youngest member of Australia's Olympic swimming team.


She went on to win two silvers in Sydney, making her the youngest
Australian to win a swimming medal in Olympic history.


Since then she says her metal toughness has improved with age and
experience and she is approaching the championships here in a
relaxed frame of mind, but with a warning she is always looking
to improve.


"World records are personal bests for me. I jump into the pool
every day wanting to break personal bests. You're always trying
to get the best out of yourself," she said.


"It's actually quite strange that I'm feeling really relaxed.


"I've never had this feeling before and it is sort of the case
that it doesn't feel like I'm racing yet which is good and I
haven't wasted energy being nervous."


European 200m breaststroke champion Kirsty Balfour conceded this
week that Jones will be unstoppable, but the Australian says the
rest of the world will soon reel in her runaway times.


This could be the challenge she is looking for.


"I think the gap will be closing even more so it's just a case of
how much I can improve," she said.


"Getting into the pool every day I use that as motivation. A
second can be taken away so quickly - it's all about keeping that
one step ahead."


Her key challenges should come from Americans Jessicah Hardy and
Tara Kirk as well as Balfour.


Outside the pool, Jones was this month unveiled as Australia's
first global ambassador for watchmakers Tag Hauer, joining the
likes of superstars Tiger Woods, Maria Sharapova, Uma Thurman and
Brad Pitt.

