

Flamboyant former first lady Imelda Marcos is playing coy about
her political plans just two months before the Philippines holds
mid-term elections.


Meeting with her supporters after attending a gathering at a
Manila hotel after midnight Wednesday, Marcos at first said she
would shun "divisive politics" and not seek any election post.


But after receiving a "manifesto of support" containing 150,000
signatures from her fans urging her to run as mayor of Manila,
Marcos said: "I will do that."


Earlier she told reporters: "I have been asked by many of our
leaders, but I think I can be more helpful not only for Manila
but the Filipino people if I will not enter divisive politics."


Her tune later changed upon seeing her fans who had waited for
hours at the hotel lobby for a chance to meet her.


If she chooses to run for mayor of Manila, the former beauty
queen's toughest opponent would be Alfredo Lim, a former senator
and policeman known as Manila's "Dirty Harry" for his anti-crime
crusade.


The Philippines goes to the polls on May 14 to elect 12 senators,
some 250 members of the House of Representatives and over 17,000
mayors, governors and other local officials.


As the Philippine first lady during her dictator husband
Ferdinand Marcos' 20-year regime, Imelda led a jet-set, opulent
lifestyle.


She built a massive convention centre and highways as the country
went bankrupt, giving rise to sprawling squatter colonies on the
city's fringes.


Her husband was deposed in a popular revolt in 1986, forcing them
into exile in Hawaii, where the dictator died three years later.
The Marcos family is estimated to have stolen some 10 billion
dollars from state coffers.


A mob that descended into the presidential palace after their
departure found a treasure trove in Imelda's private chambers,
consisting of jewellery, some 1,500 pairs of shoes, countless
dresses, and paintings by the masters.


The Marcos heirs were later allowed to return to the Philippines,
and none of them or their cronies have been convicted despite
numerous graft cases filed against them.


The government has said it was open to out-of-court settlements
to finally put closure to the Marcos era.

