

Japan's trade surplus expanded unexpectedly last month, hitting
the highest ever level for February on strong auto and steel
exports, the government said Thursday.


The surplus grew 7.7 percent from a year earlier to 979.58
billion yen (8.3 billion dollars), well above market forecasts
for a 630.8 billion yen surplus, and an improvement on January's
revised 1.9 billion yen deficit.


Exports rose 9.7 percent year-on-year in February to 6.42
trillion yen, while imports increased 10.1 percent to 5.44
trillion yen, the finance ministry said in a preliminary report.


"Among exports, automobiles and steel products expanded in
February," the ministry said in a statement. Auto exports jumped
19.7 percent while steel products posted a 28.5 percent gain.


Analysts said the trade surplus may shrink toward the end of the
year due to a slowdown in the US economy, the biggest market for
Japanese goods.


"There is a high chance that Japan's trade surplus will narrow
due to growing expectations that the US economy will stall later
this year," said Keiji Kanda, an economist at the Daiwa Institute
of Research.


Recent signs of trouble in the US housing sector have added to
concerns about the health of the US economy, with some companies
that lent to "sub-prime" borrowers with patchy credit records
suffering financial trouble.


"The US economy is expected to make a soft landing but concerns
have emerged following the recent volatility on stock markets and
worries about sub-prime lending," said Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute economist Toshihiro Nagahama.


Japan's trade surplus may also be affected by a stronger yen
against the dollar, which undercuts the competitiveness of its
exports, analysts said.


After trading at around the 120 yen level earlier this year, the
dollar has fallen back to around 117 yen recently in a blow to
exporters.


Even so Japan's trade surplus with the United States rose 9.2
percent to 806.8 billion yen in February, the first increase in
two months, the ministry said.


"But this is unlikely to reignite concerns about possible trade
frictions between Japan and the United States as the US focus has
shifted from Japan to China" as the main target of criticism,
Daiwa's Kanda said.


Japan's trade surplus with the rest of Asia shrank 38 percent to
464.4 billion yen in February from a year earlier, the first
decline in four months.


The deficit with China jumped from 13.8 billion yen to 308.1
billion yen, the first expansion in four months.


The trade surplus with the European Union was up 33.3 percent to
446.3 billion yen, the 16th straight year-on-year increase.


These surpluses offset the huge deficit Japan has with the Middle
East due to its substantial oil imports, although here too there
was an improvement, with the deficit shrinking 22.1 percent to
about 687 billion yen.

