

With Indian writers reaping awards and topping best-seller lists
worldwide, the Paris book fair is putting the spotlight on  the
country's literary output at this year's edition of its annual
fair.


"Indian authors are based everywhere, express themselves
everywhere, publish everywhere, and the entire world is beginning
to take interest in this immense reservoir of talent," said
Dominique Vitalyos, an advisor at the National Book Centre (CNL).


Some 30 Indian novelists, both from the diaspora and India, have
been invited to take part in talks on Indian literature during
the five-day fair, March 23 to March 27, which last year
attracted 174,000 visitors.


Among those invited are Vikram Seth, a poet and novelist often
cited as the star of India's new generation of novelists, who
notably penned "The Golden Gate", set in California, and "An
Equal Music", set in contemporary Europe.


Journalist-turned-writer Tarun Tejpal, whose "The Alchemy of
Desire" won rave reviews worldwide will also be in Paris, along
with Abha Dawesar, author of "That Summer in Paris" and "Babyji"
(being released in French at the fair) and Shashi Deshpande,
whose novels include "That Long Silence."


Western interest in Indian writers grew in 1989 when Iranian
clerics issued a fatwa against Salman Rushdie for his "Satanic
Verses", said Marc Parent, a foreign literature editor at French
publishing house Buchet-Chastel, which specialises in Indian
works.


Readers and publishers alike, he said, then discovered
contemporary Indian writers who differed with novelists from the
post-colonial period.


Eight years later, when Arundhati Roy carried off the Booker
prize for "The God of Small Things," both English-speaking and
French publishers intensified efforts to find new Indian writers.


Interest grew even further in 2001, the year the Nobel Literature
Prize went to V.S. Naipaul, and currently even small French
publishing houses offer Indian works.


"There is a huge demand for foreign writers. Readers enjoy the
narrative tradition, they want a good story, and that is part of
the tradition of the great Indian novels," Parent said.


A French translation of Tarun Tejpal has sold 60,000 copies and
the success in France of works by Vikram Seth and Amitav Ghosh
testify to cultural globalisation.


"Writers from the diaspora (such as Seth) most often write about
immigration, which is another reason why Westerners are
interested in the books," Parent said.


Women are prominent among India's new generation of novelists,
with Kiran Desai, who is 35, winning the 2006 Booker Prize for
her second book, "The Inheritance of Loss", which portrays
several generations living in India, Britain and the United
States.

