

Australia's future prospects are very bright with an experienced
core of star players anxious to win the Asian Cup and steer the
side through World Cup qualifying, says centre back Lucas Neill.


Neill, who snubbed Liverpool for a big-money move to West Ham
this year, believes the experience of people like himself mixed
with a new crop of young blood bodes well for the challenges
ahead.


"I definitely see myself as a key member with an important,
responsible role to play," he told reporters ahead of Australia's
friendly against China in Guangzhou on Saturday.


"I will have to pass my knowledge down to the young guys breaking
through in the way the older guys did to me.


"We have set a standard now, and the senior pros, players like
Bresh (Mark Bresciano), Vinnie (Grella), myself, Timmy Cahill,
Harry Kewell, Emmo (Brett Emerton), Jason Culina, Luke Wilkshire,
have to maintain that standard and show those coming through what
is required.


"Hopefully for the next five or six years, I will be playing for
Australia and in that time, I want to be one of the key figures.
I want to be up there."


Neill is training in Hong Kong with his teammates ahead of their
tricky clash with China, and they are determined to secure a win
to boost confidence ahead of the Asian Cup finals in July.


"As soon as the World Cup finished, everyone was still hungry for
more tournament activity. It was great to have one just round the
corner and now there is a real genuine opportunity to win one for
the national team," he told the Melbourne Age newspaper.


"Everybody knows it's not going to be a walkover. We have to go
there and adjust to totally different environments and against
some very talented teams. If you are not fully prepared, you can
come unstuck."


The Aussies are set play with a four-man midfield and two wingers
to support striker Mark Viduka against China.


With Brett Emerton and Scott Chipperfield missing the match,
Viduka told the South China Morning Post it was a good
opportunity for players like Pat Kisnorbo, Michael Beauchamp and
Jacob Burns to step up and do well.


"The game against China will be tough. I was speaking to Sun
(Jihai) after we played Manchester City last weekend and he was
saying they'll be fielding the best team they possibly can," the
Middlesbrough star said.


"We've got a lot of players missing who would normally make the
starting line- up, but it's an opportunity for the young players
coming through to take their chance."

