

Major power mediators said Wednesday that they would judge a new
Palestinian unity government bringing together moderates and
radical Islamists by what it does, not who it includes or what
they say.


A statement issued after two days of deliberations among the so-
called Mideast Quartet -- the United States, Russia, United
Nations and European Union -- reaffirmed that the government led
by the radical Islamic group Hamas must renounce violence,
recognize Israel and accept past accords.


Until those conditions are met, the Quartet left in place a
controversial aid boycott it imposed on the Palestinian
government since Hamas won sole control of the administration in
elections early last year.


But in an apparent gesture to moderates who joined the government
Saturday under a deal between Hamas and the Western-backed
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, the statement said the new
leadership would not be judged solely on its "composition and
platform, but also its actions."


The language reflected European arguments that the government
should not be judged purely on the rhetoric of its official
platform but on the future actions of Hamas.


"Imagine from tomorrow there is no violence from Hamas -- this
has a value that sometimes is more important than if you say that
you won't do it," said a senior EU official involved in the
deliberations.


The statement, signed by the four parties' top diplomats and
released by the State Department, called on the government to
"act responsibly, demonstrate clear and credible commitment to
the Quartet principles" and support efforts by Abbas to negotiate
a two-state deal with Israel.


The fact that it took the diplomats 48 hours to issue the
statement indicated a lively debate over how to respond to the
power-sharing arrangement in which Hamas cohabits a government
with Abbas' secular Fatah party and independents.


Abbas has long agreed to the Quartet principles and is viewed as
a "partner for peace" by Israel.


But the platform of the Hamas-led government unveiled Saturday
agreed only to "respect" existing international agreements signed
by Abbas and reaffirmed the Palestinians' right to "resistance"
against Israeli occupation.


The unity deal largely had put an end to kidnappings and deadly
gunfights between Hamas and Fatah rivals over the past four
months until Wednesday.


Unknown gunmen snatched a senior Hamas official who also works as
a university professor in Gaza City, the first abduction of a
Hamas official since Saturday's formation of the national unity
government.


Late Wednesday, a Palestinian man was killed and 17 others were
wounded in Gaza when shooting broke out between rival clans of
the Hamas and Fatah parties, security officials said.


Abbas has publicly appealed to the Quartet to lift its boycott of
the government on the grounds that the commitment to respect past
agreements with Israel amounts to implicit recognition of the
Jewish state.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has taken a hard line in
response, insisting on explicit acceptance by Hamas of all the
Quartet principles.


Washington's concerns were apparent Wednesday when US officials
said they were slashing a proposed package of aid to security
forces loyal to Abbas from 86 million dollars to around 50
million dollars for fear some money could end up going to Hamas.


EU and UN officials met Wednesday with the Palestinian finance
minister, Salam Fayyad, a day after a US diplomat also held talks
with him, and EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-
Waldner invited him to Brussels for future talks.


Fayyad is an independent and former senior official at the
International Monetary Fund who enjoys the confidence and respect
of governments of many donor states.


Rice is due to leave for a five-day tour of the Middle East on
Friday during which she will hold separate talks with Abbas and
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.


US officials have left open the possibility she could also meet
with Fayyed or other non-Hamas members of the government.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the current EU president, and
Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt are also due in the region in
the coming days.

