

North Korean nuclear disarmament talks dragged into a fourth day
Thursday as Chinese authorities worked frantically to clear a
surprise roadblock to the tortuous six-party negotiations.


The Stalinist regime has refused since Monday to hold any further
discussions about an accord to dismantle its nuclear weapons
programme until it sees 25 million dollars in frozen funds safely
back in its bank accounts.


The United States, which froze the money in a Macau bank in 2005
due to accusations of North Korean money laundering and
counterfeiting, said at the beginning of the week it would allow
the money to be returned.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill and other negotiators in the six-
nation talks had expected North Korea to be satisfied with the
move, and that they would spend the next few days fleshing out a
roadmap for disarmament.


But, due to a myriad of technical problems, the money has not
been sent from Macau to a North Korean account with the Bank of
China in Beijing, leaving the envoys frustrated and left with
little to do but sit in their hotel rooms.


"We must not waste our time and we must swiftly go into
discussions over issues of substance," chief Japanese envoy
Kenichiro Sasae told reporters on Thursday, as negotiators
awaited news on the transfer of the money.


The talks -- which involve China, the two Koreas, the United
States, Japan and Russia -- were scheduled to end after three
days.


But with no progress made, China called the envoys together late
Wednesday to ask them to stay at least one more day, while
assuring them that Chinese authorities were working to have the
money transferred quickly.


"China is the one who is making the main efforts over this so we
just have to go and listen to the outcome of their efforts,"
Sasae said.


Hill repeated on Thursday that he believed the money transfer
should not have sabotaged this week's talks.


"This was a procedural, form-filling issue," Hill told reporters,
adding he could offer no explanation for the North Koreans'
negotiating tactics.


"The day I explain to you the North Korean thinking is the day I
have been in this process too long."


China had still not scheduled any firm meeting of the chief
envoys on Thursday morning, indicating they had yet to secure the
transfer of the money.


An official involved in the talks said on Wednesday the transfer
was taking a long time partly because some North Korean bank
account owners had died or were not living in Macau.


Under a six-nation accord signed on February 13, North Korea
agreed to initially shut down its main nuclear reactor at
Yongbyon by mid-April and allow UN inspectors back into the
country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, would eventually receive one million tonnes of
heavy fuel or equivalent energy aid if it permanently dismantled
its nuclear weapons programme.

