

Pieter van den Hoogenband says the lure of swimming under 48
seconds again after recovering from career-threatening back
problems is motivating the world record holder to chase big
titles once again.


The Dutch triple Olympic champion shapes up in two of the major
races at the 12th world championships next week in the 100m and
200m freestyle and he is eager, fit and ready to show the world
he can swim fast again.


Hoogie, as he is known, had successful back surgery in May 2005
and missed the last world championships in Montreal but is
excited to race against a hot 100m freestyle field and American
world champion Michael Phelps in the 200m.


"I'm really looking forward to racing Michael. Unfortunately, Ian
(Thorpe) is not swimming, but Michael is the world champion in
the 200m freestyle," the 29 -year-old told a press conference
Thursday.


"I think he is capable of swimming under 1:45 and so far only two
people on this planet have done that and I'm one of them (along
with world record holder Thorpe).


"He's in good shape, breaking world records in the butterfly so
I'm really looking forward to racing good swimmers, and Michael
Phelps is one of them.


"It's going to be a very good 100m freestyle field, there's a lot
of good professional swimmers so I think you will have to swim
very fast just to make the final."


Hoogie was taken aback when told by reporters that South African
Roland Schoeman claims he will be unbeatable if he can replicate
his fast first 50m in the 100m.


"Did he say that? He's unbeatable? It's good to hear that he's in
good shape. You can say a lot of different stories but we'll have
to see what happens in the pool," he said.


"I am very happy after the problems with my back and winning the
European title last year that I am eager, fit and can swim fast
and hopefully I can show the rest of the world that I am a fast
swimmer again."


Van den Hoogenband has three Olympic gold medals but has yet to
win a world title in three meets and is looking to end his
outstanding career at next year's Beijing Olympics, meaning this
is likely to be his last world championships.


"The world championships are very special to me and, of course, I
want to win, but winning three Olympic titles is more special for
me," he said.


"This is the event this season so, of course, world championships
are very special, I've won a couple of silver and bronze medals
and I'm very happy with my career.


"There is a very big chance that this will be my last world
championship.


"I'm swimming in these world championships, next year's European
championships and the Beijing Olympics.


"After the Olympics there's a slight chance that I might swim in
the (2009) world championships in Rome, but that's a very small
chance."

