

Crouched around the camera's high-tech screen, the US Marines
watch flames burn the camouflage netting around one of their
lookout posts on a nearby roof, just hit by a burst of machinegun
fire.


As the camera in the troops' command position sweeps the area
around the post 500 metres (yards) away, all that can be seen are
mothers taking children to school.


The insurgents have vanished, having poured around 400 heavy
machine gun bullets into the rooftop lookout, piercing the
protective ballistic glass and wounding the soldier on duty.


Only two hours earlier the same Marines had been congratulating
themselves on spotting a group of insurgents burying a roadside
bomb, now all wiped out in an aerial strike the troops called up.


Here in Ramadi, capital of Al-Anbar province and heartland of the
Sunni insurrection in Iraq, a war of attrition is taking place.


Faced with daily harassment by insurgents in this city 100
kilometres (60 miles) west of Baghdad, the Marines are steadily
setting up advance posts as they move cautiously towards the
zones most occupied by their Sunni attackers.


"The battalion is moving east, where the danger comes from.
Building observation posts deny freedom of movement for the
enemy," said Captain Kyle Sloan, Alpha company commander.


Sloan says the Marines are carrying out more daytime patrols
while the Iraqi police were now able to operate independently.


The Marines company command headquarters in Ramadi, a four-storey
building, also shelters some 50 Iraqi police and around 30
soldiers from the Iraqi army.


"When they told me I have to go to Ramadi, I told myself 'this is
not good', but now I believe it is better here than in Baghdad",
said Alaa Mohammed, one of the Iraqi soldiers.


To one side of the post, a school has reopened, and Marines say
that more people are daring to venture out into the streets and
that their attitude towards the Americans has changed for the
better.


"Every squad has a favourite family. When on patrol, they are
making a point of going to the house, see if they need anything,
give stuff to the kids," said Corporal Joshua Barrett.


It's not a strategy that endears the US troops to everyone in
Ramadi. During a night patrol to secure buildings around a new
advance post, Lieutenant Michael Steinpfad asked local residents:
"Why do you let the insurgents live with you?"


One young man, a local Sunni, speaking in English, challenged the
US view.


"The insurgents treat us badly and the Americans treat us badly
too. We are afraid the Americans came to steal the oil and
fortunes of Iraq. Saddam Hussein gave Iraq an important thing,
security," he said.


Illustrating the division tearing the country apart, an angry
Shiite interpreter from southern Iraq working with the US
military, retorted: "Do you think Saddam didn't steal Iraqi
fortunes? Why don't you cooperate?


"Under his regime, it was a fake security, he was killing people.
The same terrorists that are killing people now were already
killing people then," said the interpreter.


Perhaps fearing he had gone too far, the young Sunni remained
quiet.


In a neighbouring house, behind a tiny garden home to three
goats, residents watch an American film with Al Pacino. As the
Marines moved in, a young woman tried to hide her face from male
gazes using her hands and veil.


The soldiers found a small portable stereo including one of the
famous songs, backed by the sound of Kalashnikov assault rifle
fire, about the "Lions of Fallujah", the former rebel stronghold
some 60 kilometres (35 miles) from Ramadi which was only taken
after a fierce and bloody assault.


The song calls for Iraqis to "strike the occupier".


"I know you have been threatened by the insurgents, but if you
want the insurgents to leave the place, we need your help,"
Lance-corporal William Bailey said, asking the family if they
want their children to grow up amid gunfire and bombs.


The night patrol seized three people on its list of wanted men,
including a podgy youngster who said he was 18 and who was
suspected as serving as a scout for insurgents.


Blindfolded and his hands tied, he denounced one of his
neighbours where he said masked men had just met.


On one roof in the city, a 24-year-old Iraqi policeman -- with
handcuffs attached to his bullet-proof vest -- did lookout duty
alongside a Marine.


"When I joined the IP (Iraqi police) seven years ago, the
situation was good for policemen. Now, I have already been
wounded three times, but I"m not scared, I'm ready to go home
with my uniform," said Ali Harbi.


Meanwhile, the violence continues, with Iraqi civilians the main
victims.


A 14-year-old boy, his face lacerated around his right eye, said:
"I was with my uncle in a truck loaded with sheep when a suicide
car bomb exploded. I'm happy to see through my wounded eye again.
I want to be a doctor."


Near to him, another child whose right leg has been amputated
below the knee, looked sadly at a football he will never be able
to kick.

