

Distance king Grant Hackett is vying for his fifth consecutive
1500m freestyle world title at next week's world championships
and has been unrivalled in his pet event for 10 years.


Hackett is the only swimmer in history to win the same event in
four consecutive world championships stretching back to Perth in
1998, but this year there's a different feeling in the camp, a
fear he could finally be beaten.


Denis Cotterell, his long-time coach until earlier this year,
says his protege is under immense pressure to maintain a decade-
long unbeaten sequence in the 30-lapper.


Hackett, the most-decorated swimmer in world championship history
with 17 medals, including 10 golds, recently relocated to
Melbourne from Queensland's Gold Coast to be closer to his
fiancee, pop singer Candice Alley.


He is also coming back from a season off with major shoulder
surgery which kept him out of last year's Melbourne Commonwealth
Games.


Cotterell fears the disruptions are a recipe for something
horribly going wrong and says Hackett will need all his
experience to stay unconquered in his event on April Fool's Day,
April 1.


"It will be interesting to see how he can respond from the most
difficult preparation by a long shot that he's ever had,"
Cotterell said.


Hackett, who holds the world record of 14:34.56 set at the 2001
Fukuoka world championships, knows the pressure is on him and
expects six or seven in his race to go under under 15 minutes.


"I'm not sure if anyone's ready to make the drop into a sub
14:40, but I think we'll see a few competitors in the 14:40s and
I think we'll see at least six or seven people under 15 minutes,"
Hackett said.


"Overall, I think it's going to be the fastest race we've seen."


Although Hackett has a history of illness at major meets it has
been the 26 -year-old's mental strength to get through adversity.


Hackett is now Australia's main hope of a gold medal in the men's
events following the sudden retirement of Olympic and world
champion Ian Thorpe late last year, but he knows he is
vulnerable.


"I was a little bit naive making that big a transition and
thinking it wouldn't affect my performance as much as it has," he
said.


"In some respects it has worked against me.


"I am putting things in place for the bigger picture and that's
always been my focus, and that's Beijing (Olympics) and to swim
the fastest I've ever swam there, no question about that.


"It's going to enable my life to be easier and more set up for
the bigger picture."


Hackett said the monotony of training under Cotterell had begun
to wear him down and he needed to revive his swimming career.


"I needed a change of atmosphere, lifestyle and environment," he
said.


"I'd rather get to Beijing and look back on it and think, 'well I
did everything possible and made the tough decision and made the
changes so I could reinvigorate my career and try and refresh
myself.'"

