

The newest and most advanced US aircraft carrier arrived Thursday
in South Korea to take part in major annual  exercises which have
been denounced by North Korea as a preparation for war.


The USS Ronald Reagan, plus a cruiser and two destroyers, will
join hundreds of thousands of South Korean troops and tens of
thousands of US soldiers in the exercises, which the allies say
are purely defensive in nature.


The carrier group's visit to South Korea and involvement in the
drills "is a sign of the depth of commitment on the part of the
US to the peace and security and stability of the Korean
peninsula and the region," said Rear Admiral Charlie Martoglio,
commander of the carrier group.


North Korea has denounced the manoeuvres, which start Sunday, as
aimed at poisoning the atmosphere of current six-party nuclear
disarmament talks and at bringing the Korean peninsula "to the
brink of war."


The exercises are "a preliminary war, a nuclear test war,
designed to make a surprise preemptive attack" on North Korea,
the ruling party newspaper Rodong Sinmun said last Sunday,
repeating its customary criticism of the annual drills.


The US military says the week-long exercises, RSOI (Reception,
Staging, Onward Movement and Integration) and Foal Eagle, are
purely designed to test the ability of allied forces to defend
South Korea against attack and to receive reinforcements from
overseas.


The US forces say they have told North Korea that "this is a
defensive military readiness exercise, and that it is not meant
to be provocative in any way."


The US has stationed tens of thousands of troops in the South
since the Korean war began in June 1950 with an invasion by the
North.


Currently some 29,500 US troops are stationed here to help
680,000 South Korean forces face up to North Korea's 1.1-million-
strong military.


The USS Ronald Reagan commander, Captain Terry Kraft, declined to
give details of the exercises during a visit Wednesday by
journalists to the ship.


But he said his ship will "be exercising a broad range of
missions."


The carrier, commissioned in July 2003, is almost as long as the
Empire State Building is tall (over 330 metres or 1,090 feet) and
carries more than 5,000 crew.


Its two nuclear reactors give it a top speed of more than 30
knots. Its air wing includes the F18 Super Hornet, the F18 Sea
Hornet, EA6B Prowler radar-jamming aircraft, E-2C Hawkeye
airborne early warning aircraft and helicopters.

