

The US army said on Thursday that troops had dismantled a car
bomb factory and seized stashes of nitric acid and chlorine
during operations to quell sectarian violence in the Iraqi
capital.


The US military found a "large vehicle-born improvised explosive
devices factory" and arrested a suspected member of an Al-Qaeda
car bomb and assassination cell in a raid in north Baghdad on
Thursday.


"Coalition forces will continue systematic and methodical
operations in order to hunt down and capture or kill terrorists
trying to prevent a peaceful and stable Iraq," said army
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver.


Separately, hundreds of Iraqi and US troops have pushed into
troubled areas of western Baghdad, arresting 31 suspects and
impounding containers of nitric acid and chlorine less than a
week after Iraq's latest insurgent gas attack.


Around 1,100 US soldiers and 500 Iraqi troops swept into the
Mansur district on Wednesday, conducting house-to-house searches
in what the military said was a bid to clear the area of Al-Qaeda
and militiamen.


Iraqi forces detained 20 suspects and US troops another 11, while
two weapons caches were seized with containers of nitric acid and
chlorine, the military said without elaborating.


Last Friday, two policemen were killed and 350 civilians required
hospital treatment after insurgents detonated three trucks filled
with toxic chlorine gas in the seventh insurgent gas attack this
year alone.


US and Iraqi troops have been waging Operation Fardh al-Qanoon
(Imposing Law) since last month, a massive security plan to
regain control of Baghdad and quell deadly sectarian warfare
between Sunnis and Shiites.


South of Baghdad, the body of a police intelligence officer
kidnapped on Wednesday from his office in full view of a watching
crowd was found dead in the Shiite city of Diwaniyah, according
to a local police source.


In the northern Iraqi city of Mosul, the US military said a
suspect was arrested on suspicion of setting up Al-Qaeda training
camps in Iraq and neighbouring Syria.


The United States has repeatedly charged that weapons and foreign
fighters flood into Iraq from across the Syrian as well as
Iranian borders.

