

Australia's Olympic swimming great Kieren Perkins says there are
justified reasons to be suspicious of recent performances by the
German women's team.


Just two days before the swimming competition begins in the world
championships here, Perkins pointed an accusing finger at the
Germans following Britta Steffen's 53.30sec 100m freestyle world
record at the European championships in Budapest last August.


Orjan Madsen, performance director for Germany, went on the front
foot this week and challenged other swimming nations to show that
their drug-testing system was better or tighter than Germany's
regime.


"I'm not talking about individuals, but it wasn't that long ago
that the East Germans were embroiled in a drug controversy,"
former Olympic 1500m champion Perkins told Thursday's Melbourne
Herald-Sun newspaper.


"There are justified reasons to have suspicions and past anti-
doping violations don't help the German's cause."


Madsen said all German swimming could do in the face of the
allegations was to be open about doping issues.


"I think that happens to all of us when we see great
performances," Madsen told a press conference here earlier this
week.


"I don't think there's anything we can do about it. What we can
try to do is to be very open when it comes to doping issues.


"All our athletes have a doping passport where all the doping
tests they have been doing from (governing body) FINA or WADA
(World Anti-Doping Agency) are written down.


"The only thing we can do is to prove they are doing things
legally is that we request to be tested more often. We are not
satisfied with the number of tests being carried out."


Australian Libby Lenton, who lost her world 100m freestyle record
to Steffen, said Wednesday it was unfair to point the finger of
suspicion at Germany.


Lenton said she can empathise with the Germans, and Steffen,
after doubts were raised about her muscular physique at the
Australian world championship trials in December.


"I feel it's really sad and I don't like the negative talk,
whether it be Germany or any athlete who doesn't deserve to have
that sort of allegation levelled against them," Lenton said.


"The old saying is innocent until proven guilty."

