

A defender who has proved he can keep Ronaldinho and Samuel Eto'o
on a tight leash -- as Jamie Carragher did in Liverpool's
Champions League win over Barcelona -- would expect to walk into
any team in the world.


But the lynchpin of Liverpool's back four has no complaints about
his current status as third or fourth fiddle in England's central
defensive pecking order.


With Rio Ferdinand and John Terry apparently untouchable,
Carragher is reliant on injuries for opportunities to add to his
32 caps, and it seems likely that he will be turning out at right
back against Israel on Saturday in the berth normally reserved
for Gary Neville, who is out injured.


"Of course, I'd love to play centre-half," Carragher admitted.
"But John Terry and Rio Ferdinand were probably two of our best
players in the World Cup.


"You can't really argue with that. For me, John Terry is the best
centre-back in the world. Over the last three or four years, I
wouldn't have anyone ahead of him.


"Rio was as good as anyone at the World Cup, a 30-million-pound
defender, so I am in no position to complain about that, either.
You are talking about world class players. Hopefully I can learn
off them. You are always trying to improve."


It has been the 29-year-old's misfortunte to have been born in an
era when England are rich in top quality centre-backs - with
Jonathan Woodgate also available, not to mention Sol Campbell,
Wes Brown and Michael Dawson.


"It is just one of those things," he said. "I've got 30-odd caps
and hopefully I can get a few more before my England career
finishes.


"Playing for England, you are always going to have competition
because we have got some of the best players in the world. It's
just unfortunate they are all centre-backs!"


Carragher's experience of the pressure involved in Champions
League knockout clashes should stand him in good stead when
England run out for a match they can ill afford to lose on
Saturday.


And he believes that Liverpool's performance in overcoming
Barcelona over two legs earlier this month can serve as
inspiration for England as they seek to get their qualifying
campaign back on track.


"We all know how big the game is," Carragher said. "When the draw
was made, Israel away was always going to be a tough game and
we'd have liked to have got a few more points on the board before
we went there. So that's what probably makes it a bit bigger game
than it was at the start of the group.


"They are going to put us under pressure and maybe there will be
a hostile crowd. But that is something the players who have
played in Europe are used to.


"The atmosphere shouldn't faze you. In fact it works the other
way - it gives you a buzz and a boost.


"It's great to play in these places and that's what the game is
about. The atmosphere adds a bit of pressure but as England
players, and myself, you prefer to play in those types of
atmosphere.


"For instance at Liverpool we went to Barcelona, went a goal
down, and people were saying 'Liverpool's season could be over.'


"But it's those type of games (that) you are in the game for.
Barcelona have some of the best players in the world - but we
beat them. We prepared very well, and I'm sure we will do the
same with England."

