

Thousands of Australian computer game fans were expected to begin
queueing here Thursday to be the first outside the United States
and Japan to experience Sony's new Playstation 3 console.


The next-generation PS3 was to be launched at midnight (1300 GMT)
in the Myer department store in central Sydney, with queues
expected to form late Thursday, traditionally the night for late
shopping in Australia.


A Sony spokesman said 10,000 of the consoles -- Sony's answer to
the challenge thrown down by Nintendo's Wii and Microsoft's XBox
360 -- had been pre-ordered in Australia, where they retail for
1,000 dollars (808 US).


"We're expecting a good chunk of the people who have pre-ordered
to turn up for the launch," the spokesman said, adding the James
Bond film "Casino Royale" would be screened to entertain the
eager gamers as midnight approached.


The PS3 was launched in the United States and Japan in November,
but production problems delayed its release in the rest of the
world.


The delay allowed Sony's rivals to move a step ahead in
Australia, where the XBox 360 was launched a year ago and the Wii
has been on the shelves for five months.


The PS3 is also the most expensive of the trio because Sony is
only releasing its top-of-the-line 60-gigabyte version in Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and Australasia.


Gamer Chris Stead, former editor of Australian GamePro, said he
would not be rushing to buy the console, even though he was
impressed with features such as a Blu-ray DVD player.


Stead said the gaming community was concerned the PS3 lacked
"backward compatibility", meaning they could not use it to play
games purchased for the PS1 and PS2.


"The backward compatibility of the version they're selling here
is much lower than in the US and Japan, so we're being asked to
pay top dollar for an inferior product," he told AFP.


"You're going to have to download patches and fixes to be able to
play your PS1 and PS2 games and a lot of people aren't going to
bother."


Sony Computer Entertainment Australia managing director Michael
Ephraim acknowledged the concerns but said the compatibility
issue was being addressed.


"We're not blind to the comments out there but we're very excited
that now, with the launch, people will see what it's all about,"
he told reporters.


However, the Sydney Morning Herald said the PS3 lacked "killer
games" to accompany the launch and advised readers: "If you're
budget-conscious and just want a gaming machine, buy the 360."

