

Portuguese teen phenom Michelle Larcher de Brito booked a shot at
Slovakian 16th seed Daniela Hantuchova with a first-round victory
at the 6.9 million-dollar Sony Ericsson Open Wednesday.


The first Portuguese player in the main draw of an elite WTA tier
one event, Larcher de Brito shrugged off rain delays to beat US
veteran Meghann Shaughnessy 6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (7/3).


A product of the Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton,
Florida, Brito is ranked 64th in juniors, the only player in the
top 200 born in 1993. She was able to rally against Shaughnessy,
who is nearly twice her age and has five career WTA Tour titles.


The youngster's reward is a match with Hantuchova, who ended a
five-year victory drought last week by winning at Indian Wells.


American Vania King earned a second-round match with second-
seeded Belgian Justine Henin with a 7-6 (7/4), 7-5 victory over
China's Sun Tiantian.


Henin skipped the Australian Open for personal reasons but has
since won tournaments in Doha and Dubai.


Belgian Kim Clijsters, the fourth seed, will face Japan's Akiko
Morigami, who who eliminated Canadian wild card Aleksandra
Wozniak 6-1, 7-5.


Russian Maria Sharapova is the top seed, and will be trying to
bounce back from a disappointing fourth-round exit at Indian
Wells.


Defending champion Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia is seeded,
third, while Serena Williams, playing for the first time since
she trounced Sharapova in the Australian Open final, is seeded
13th.


Like Sharapova, men's top seed Roger Federer is coming off an
upset loss and should be on the defensive when he meets either
Igor Andreev of Russia or American wild card Sam Querrey.


Federer took a staggering 41-match winning streak into Indian
Wells but was unceremoniously dismissed in straight sets in his
first match by Guillermo Canas of Argentina.


Canas returned from a 15-month drug suspension in September and
has been playing his way back into form. He had to qualify for
the main draw of this hardcourt event and will meet Britain's Tim
Henman in the first round.


Defending champion Federer could meet Canas again in the round of
16.


The second seed is Rafael Nadal of Spain, who capitalized on
Federer's absence to storm to victory in the California desert.


Nadal's first match will be against Brazil's Ricardo Mello, who
defeated Jan Hernych of the Czech Republic 6-1, 7-6 (7/3) on
Wednesday.


Roddick is seeded third and will play Martin Vassallo Arguello of
Argentina, who eased past Hyung-Taik Lee of Korea, 6-4, 6-2.

