

Ireland's historic place in the World Cup second round is
assured, but Niall O'Brien can't wait to pit his wits against
West Indies skipper Brian Lara in Friday's final match in Group
D.


Both sides have already guaranteed their Super Eight slots, but
the winner in the Sabina Park clash will have the advantage of
taking an extra two points into the next stage with them.


For feisty wicketkeeper O'Brien, who has just signed for humble
Northants in the English county championship, that's incentive
enough to lock horns once again with superstar Lara.


Back in 2004 the two men had a vociferous fall-out in a one-dayer
at Stormont in Northern Ireland when the teams shared a two-match
series.


O'Brien was angered by the West Indian's unwillingness to walk
after an apparent edge.


But he had the consolation of making 58 to see his side shock
their illustrious visitors.


"Lara was funny," recalls O'Brien. "We had that disagreement at
Stormont and then two days later I turned up to play against him
for (former county) Kent. I don't think he could believe his
eyes.


"I think he'd seen enough of me. I talked to (West Indies team-
mate) Dwayne Bravo recently and he said 'Brian said to say
hello'. I'm looking forward to seeing him in Jamaica."


Ireland have booked a historic place in the World Cup second
round where they will be guaranteed matches against the likes of
two-time defending champions Australia as well as world number
one South Africa.


They reached the Super Eights courtesy of a tie with Zimbabwe and
a shock win over 1992 world champions Pakistan.


O'Brien, who has brother Kevin for company in the team, insists
he will use his tough approach to the sport to try and help his
side progress even further.


"I'm a fiery character. I play aggressive cricket. That's part of
my game. If I wasn't you'd be taking away 50% of the player I
am," said O'Brien.


Ireland's Australian-born captain Trent Johnston, who hit the
winning six against Pakistan, said his team will not be overawed
by the West Indies, the world champions in 1975 and 1979.


"We'll take on the West Indies with confidence and give a good
performance," said Johnston. "We will give it 100-percent and be
very competitive."

