

Hardcore computer game fans queued Thursday to be the first to
grab Sony's Playstation 3 as the next-generation console was
released in a rolling launch from Australia to Europe.


Gamers camped for 36 hours at Virgin Megastore's flagship outlet
in London for the kudos of being the first to own the long-
awaited console, while thousands were expected to attend a late-
night launch in Sydney.


In France, a special boat was due to ferry 1,000 Playstation 3s
along the Seine to the foot of the Eiffel Tower, where diehard
enthusiasts will brave the chilly Parisian night to get their
hands on a console.


"The launch of the Playstation 3 will be the biggest video games
console launch of all time," said Jim Batchelor, entertainment
head of Britain's Woolworths' department store.


Australian gamers will become the first outside the United States
and Japan to experience the PS3, with a midnight (1300 GMT)
launch at the Myer department store in central Sydney.


A Sony spokesman said 10,000 of the consoles -- Sony's answer to
the challenge thrown down by Nintendo's Wii and Microsoft's XBox
360 -- had been pre-ordered in Australia.


"We're expecting a good chunk of the people who have pre-ordered
to turn up for the launch," the spokesman said.


The company has hired a disc jockey to entertain the crowd, as
well as a team of masseuses to provide shoulder rubs for tense
gamers.


They will also show the James Bond film "Casino Royale" on a big
screen outside the store, where queues are expected to stretch as
midnight approaches.


The PS3 was originally scheduled for worldwide launch in
November, but production problems meant it was only released in
the United States and Japan.


There were punch-ups and at least one shooting, prompting the
Virgin Megastore in London's Oxford Street to book extra security
and free taxis to whisk gamers home and avoid them falling prey
to muggers.


Determined enthusiast Ritatsu Thomas, 17, sat outside the store
in the chilly darkness from 5:00 am Wednesday -- securing first
place in the queue at the official British launch.


"It will mean a lot to be the first person in Britain to get
one," he told AFP.


The graphic design student from southwest London brought a
sleeping bag, a flask, vitamin pills and a teach yourself
Japanese book to pass the time.


He said he could understand if anyone thought he was bonkers.


"But in the end, I think it's all worth it. This is the official
launch. No-one will remember buying it at 7:00 am. I'll see the
real event," he said.


However, some gaming fanatics were not buying into the hype,
criticising Sony's decision to sell only the top-of-the-line
60-gigabyte version of the PS3 in Europe, Africa, the Middle East
and Australasia.


Chris Stead, former editor of Australian GamePro, said he would
not rush to buy the console, which retails for 1,000 dollars (808
US) in Australia, even though he was impressed with features such
as a Blu-ray DVD player.


Stead said the gaming community was concerned the PS3 lacked
"backward compatibility," meaning they could not use it to play
games purchased for the PS1 and PS2.


"The backward compatibility of the version they're selling here
is much lower than in the US and Japan, so we're being asked to
pay top dollar for an inferior product," he told AFP.


"You're going to have to download patches and fixes to be able to
play your PS1 and PS2 games and a lot of people aren't going to
bother."

