

The leader of Somalia's weakened Islamist movement on Wednesday
defended the bloody insurgency in Mogadishu, saying people had a
right to defend themselves against foreign invasions.


Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys, a hardline cleric designated a
terrorist by the United States, said the Somali people had been
"harrassed and mistreated."


"If all foreign troops leave Somalia, we will settle our
differences and everybody knows that," Aweys told the BBC Somali
service.


"The people who are fighting in Mogadishu are defending
themselves and nobody will question that right," he said from an
undisclosed position inside Somalia.


Aweys spoke hours after angry Somali crowds burned and dragged
the bodies of dead soldiers through the streets of Mogadishu,
where some of the heaviest fighting for months claimed as many as
14 lives.


His powerful Islamic Courts Union was ousted from south and
central Somalia, including the capital Mogadishu, in January by
joint Somali-Ethiopian forces, but his supporters have vowed to
wage a guerrilla war.


A planned 8,000-strong African Union force is trying to help
Somali government troops regain control, and some 1,500 Ugandan
troops have already deployed to Mogadishu.


Although his movement has been blamed for the attacks that have
killed dozens of people and displaced at least 40,000 since the
start of the year, Aweys refused to confirm his involvement.


"It is not important whether the Islamic courts are involved or
not, what is important is what the people are doing to defend
themselves. They will defend themselves, individually or as a
clan," he added.


The radical cleric vowed never to attend a national
reconciliation conference organised by his arch-rival President
Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed next month in Mogadishu.


"Yusuf is part of Ethiopia and Ethiopians are fighting for him.
Before, we wanted to have dialogue with him, but now he is with
Ethiopians," he said.


Aweys warned that his movement, which gained notoriety for
imposing harsh Sharia law during the six months it ruled southern
Somalia from June last year, was not vanquished.


"We will soon recover," said Aweys, a veteran of the Somali war
against Ethiopia in 1977-78.


In Nairobi, the US ambassador to Kenya Michael E. Ranneberger
warned that the Islamists were regrouping.


"They (Islamists) are seeking to reorganise, there is undoubtedly
Al-Qaeda encouragement to that. But I wouldn't attribute what is
going on necessarily, mainly to Al-Qaeda at this point," he said.


The scale of Somalia's violence has defied numerous
internationally-backed peace-making initiatives since the desert
country plunged into lawlessness with the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre.

