

Daytime curfews were slapped on two towns in southern Nepal on
Thursday after at least 26 people were killed and dozens injured
in brutal clashes between an ethnic group and Maoists, officials
said.


"We have asked for more police officers from the neighbouring
district, and they will arrive this afternoon," said Ram Kumar
Khanal, police superintendent of Rautahat district, about 90
kilometres (57 miles) south of Kathmandu.


"The situation is now under control," he said, adding locals were
banned from venturing outside their homes from morning until mid-
afternoon to prevent a repeat of what local media have described
as a "bloodbath."


The violence occurred in the town of Gaur, close to the border
with India and dominated by the Mahadhesi ethnic group, whose
activists have been staging a series of violent protests and
strikes since January.


Authorities in the nearby town of Kalaiya have also imposed a
curfew.


The ethnic group has been pushing for greater representation in
national politics in the wake of a peace deal between the Maoists
and central government that was signed four months ago.


Some 60 people have been killed since the unrest began earlier
this year.


According to the leader of a Maoist group in the area,
Wednesday's clashes erupted when the Maoists and rivals from the
Mahadhesi People's Rights Forum (MJF) tried to hold mass meetings
at the same venue.


"The MJF vandalised our stage and then attacked us," said Matrika
Yadhav, the chairman of the Maoist-affiliated group, who blamed
the "MJF, royalists and Hindu fundamentalists."


"We think it was a planned attack. They had guns and khukuris,"
Yadhav told AFP, referring to Nepal's traditional large, curved
knife.


Dev Gurung, a senior Maoist leader, described the MJF as a
"criminal gang" and demanded government action.


The Maoists have accused embattled King Gyanendra of
orchestrating ethnic violence in the south in order to undermine
a peace deal expected to result in the landlocked Himalayan
nation being declared a republic.


An MJF leader confirmed that only Maoists were killed, but
accused the former rebels -- who were supposed to have locked up
their weapons as part of the recent peace deal with the
government -- of opening fire.


"None of our activists were killed. All the dead are Maoists
killed by local people who support our organisation," said
Upendra Jha, a member of the MJF's central committee.


"The Maoists opened fire first to disturb our programme, and
angry activists from our organisation fought with them."


Government and Maoist officials from the capital were to visit
the area Thursday, the home ministry said.


The violence in the southern plains, known as Nepal's bread
basket, has cast a shadow over the country's peace deal which
officially brought an end to 10 years of civil war.

