

Russia was angling for a fifth synchronised swimming title
Thursday in a sport they dominate, as Canadian superstar
Alexandre Despatie threatened to derail China's diving
juggernaut.


Russian hopes for the only gold medal on offer Thursday lie with
Natalia Ischenko, who took silver at the 2005 world
championships, but the defending champion in the solo free
discipline Virginie Dedieu stands in her way.


The French starlet has made a stunning return to competition here
after being enticed out of retirement and is coming off a routine
which attracted a near- perfect score of 99.000 in Sunday's
preliminaries.


Ischenko, who has already won the solo technical gold, was second
in the preliminaries while Spain's Gemma Mengual Civil, known as
the Princess of Barcelona, and Saho Harada of Japan will also be
in contention.


As the world's best swimmers continued their training regimes
ahead of the main program of races starting Sunday, Despatie, a
household name in his homeland, staked his claim to the men's 3m
springboard title.


The multi-talented Canadian, who stars in a teen movie, "On Your
Marks - Party," due for release later this year, upset Chinese
high-flyers He Chong and Kai Qin to finish the preliminary rounds
in front.


He opened his campaign with an impressive 81 points but it wasn't
enough to frighten Kai and He who scored higher with their own
impressive moves.


But consistent dives from Despatie kept him chasing the Chinese
pair before a beautifully-timed and smooth forward three and a
half somersault landed him 89.25 points and the top position.


From here he never looked back with Qin ending second and He, the
world number one, in third after four hours of competition.


"It's very hard to stay focused for the whole time and to react
after 35-40 minutes between one dive and the other. But today I
was feeling very comfortable on the board," said Despatie, the
defending champion who missed most of last year with a neck
injury.


"So far I haven't competed at this level for a year. I came here
without setting any specific goals, like a medal or a score. But
I did very good and every step I will try to do a little better."


Qin suggested he hadn't performed at his best and that there was
plenty more in the tank.


"It was normal, nothing special," he said. "It was just
preliminaries, the pressure is low and you are not very nervous
so you don't perform your best."


China has won all four diving medals here so far and is aiming
for a clean sweep to take to the Beijing Olympics next year.


The women's 1m springboard preliminaries were to be held later
Thursday.


In the men's water polo heats, Germany taught Japan a lesson,
hammering them 17-7, while the United States kept South Sfrica at
bay with a 14-4 victory.


Romania beat a hapless New Zealand 18-4 while Serbia tamed Italy
6-3.

