

South Korea announced Thursday it would resume humanitarian aid
for North Korean flood victims next week, in another sign of
warming relations since the North pledged to scrap its nuclear
weapons.


Vice Unification Minister Shin Eon-Sang said deliveries of flood
aid, suspended since the North's missile launches last July,
would begin on March 28.


"We will start shipping blankets from March 28, followed by the
shipment of rice, trucks, cement and iron bars between April and
May," he told reporters.


Altogether, 10,500 tons of rice, 70,415 tons of cement, 50
trucks, 60,000 blankets and 1,800 tons of iron bars will be
dispatched, he said.


Next Tuesday the South will also send the first batch of
fertiliser aid to the North.


South Korea suspended its regular annual shipments of 500,000
tons of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser after the missile
tests, and the special aid for flood victims was also halted.


Relations were strained further by the North's nuclear test in
October.


Seoul agreed to resume fertiliser aid to its impoverished
neighbour after the North consented during six-nation talks on
February 13 to dismantle its nuclear programme.


Early this month the two Koreas resumed high-level bilateral
talks and the South agreed in principle to restart its regular
annual rice aid.


Famine which struck North Korea for several years starting in
1995 killed hundreds of thousands of people. North Korea blamed
natural disasters, including floods caused in part by the
denuding of hillsides for firewood.


But analysts said the communist state's inefficient state-
directed agriculture and distribution systems played a large part
in the disaster.


A South Korean aid agency warned Thursday that malnutrition has
worsened this year across the North because food reserves have
almost dried up.


Good Friends, which focuses on assistance to the North, said up
to 70 percent of food stored by city residents has been used up
due to a poor harvest last year and insufficient foreign food
aid.


"There are no concerns about a famine like that in the mid-1990s
but the chronic food shortage has been aggravating malnutrition,"
Noh Ok-Jae, its secretary- general, told AFP.


"A poorer-than-expected harvest last year has led to reduced
rations among city dwellers who have no farmable land. Some
people are starving," said Noh, quoting her agency's contacts in
the North.


In January the North released military food supplies to city
workers for the first time following a special order from leader
Kim Jong-Il, she said.


"The unprecedented move proves the North's situation is very
serious."


North Korea may face a shortage of at least 1.5 million tons of
food this year, she said, adding the situation could become more
serious if foreign countries withhold aid.


The country, whose guiding ideology is "Juche" or self-reliance,
has received major foreign food aid since the mid-1990s but its
citizens still suffer persistent shortages.


International bodies face increasing problems raising donations
from the public due to disenchantment over its weapons
programmes.


The North is also battling disease outbreaks among humans and
livestock.


The unification ministry's Shin said the two Koreas will meet on
March 30 to discuss Seoul's offer of equipment and medicine worth
400 million won (426,440 dollars) to help prevent the spread of
foot-and-mouth disease in the North.

