

One of Cambodia's former top policemen was imprisoned for seven
years Thursday for locking a woman in a cage for more than two
months, in one of a series of brutality cases against him.


The female teacher was arrested in 2005 for allegedly trying to
bribe court officials to release her brother, a robbery suspect.
She told the court she was held for 70 days after a confession
was forced out of her.


The case was the second of several cases against Heng Pov, who
also faces trial over the death of a woman who was tortured while
in police custody and the attempted murder of a newspaper editor.


"You should know that people who are arrested must be sent to the
court in order to avoid breaking the law," judge Sao Meach told
him.


Under Cambodian law, a person can be detained for up to 72 hours
before being charged in court, but suspected criminals are
routinely held for much longer, despite complaints by rights
groups.


The woman did not indicate she had been abused while in custody,
and it was not explained to the court why she had been held for
so long.


Her plight came to light after Prime Minister Hun Sen ordered a
crackdown on corrupt court practices and dozens of cases were
reviewed for irregularities.


Ly Rasy, an officer with the municipal minor crimes unit who has
been characterised by officials as Heng Pov's henchman in a
series of crimes, including several brutal killings, was jailed
for six years.


Heng Pov told the court he was never given orders to send the
woman to court, saying he was told the case was "out of his
hands" by justice ministry officials.


He was acquitted Wednesday of kidnapping for detaining South
Korean and Chinese nationals and demanding money for their
release.


But Heng Pov faces a raft of other charges, including murder,
following a purge of Phnom Penh's police force that landed
several of his former allies in jail and exposed a corrupt and
violent police force.


Heng Pov, who is in custody, was sentenced last September to 18
years in prison in connection with the killing of a judge in
Phnom Penh in 2003 and was at the centre of a bitter extradition
row after fleeing Cambodia.


After hiding out in Singapore and Malaysia, he was granted asylum
in Finland by convincing authorities there he would be tortured
and killed if he returned to Cambodia.


Heng Pov, who was sacked as chief of police in the capital Phnom
Penh in early 2006, had threatened to link senior officials to
several assassinations and other crimes that occurred in recent
years.


Several officers serving under the ex-chief have been arrested
for crimes committed during his tenure, including the murder of a
young woman in 2004 who died after being beaten and tortured
while in police custody for allegedly stealing a piece of gold
jewellery.


Heng Pov had been expected to be tried for her death Thursday,
and it was not explained why the cases against him were changed.


He is also scheduled to go on trial next month for his alleged
role in the attempted murder of a Cambodian newspaper editor.

