

Hans Brunmayr has a gentle but reassuring handshake, one that
greets all the European Union leaders as they arrive for summit
meetings in Brussels.


Detail concerns this impeccably-dressed Austrian -- he worries if
you are comfortable with that coat on -- but he is not concerned
about being invisible as the doorman to Europe's powerful.


"Some leaders greet me like a friend, others do not even see me,"
said the veteran of 25 EU summits, as Europe marks the 50th
anniversary of its founding treaty Sunday and he readies for
retirement in June.


Brunmayr started work as head of EU protocol the same month euro
notes and coins became available in 12 countries in 2002.


It's his job to welcome VIP guests and get them where they have
to go; to ensure that all in his part of this increasingly
complex European Union goes according to plan.


"Everything has to be perfect, perfectly natural. It has to go
very smoothly and if something goes wrong, the blame is on me,"
the 64-year-old diplomat said, with a laugh.


The things he worries about most are the unknowns, he explains on
a tour through the offices, chambers and dining area of EU
headquarters.


"What I fear is when I'm not totally in charge of organisation,
when there are last-minute changes," he said.


As new countries join the EU, the chances of last-minute changes
increase, like the time just before the "big bang" entry of 10
countries in May, 2004.


"Suddenly, the heads of government of the candidate countries
turned up and I didn't know that they had been invited to
dinner," he said. It was a moment that tested even a man who
helped negotiate Austria's EU entry in 1995.


"I presented my most humble excuses, and finally I managed to
organise a side dinner, and in the end nobody was upset any
more."


Five flights above his office, senior officials toil at dark-wood
tables with television monitors, such is the distance between the
speakers. Aides sit in ranks behind them.


Down a corridor, Brunmayr enters the presidency lounge --
redecorated twice since Germany took up the EU's reins for six
months in January -- where the toughest negotiations take place.


Sat before the presidency logo, he recalled German Chancellor
Angela Merkel's first summit, and the crisis over the EU budget,
resolved in extremis in late 2005 by Britain, under Prime
Minister Tony Blair.


"The Polish leader -- he's gone now -- was afraid. He didn't know
what to do. He couldn't return home without a result. She
promised him some concessions, then took him by the hand and
brought him in here, to Blair."


"Everyone said: 'Now that is something different'!"


But not all negotiations are successful.


"During the Italian presidency, in what was thought to be the
final negotiation on the constitution, Silvio Berlusconi spent
here the whole evening, the whole night, and the following day
until lunch in negotiations, in confessionals," Brunmayr said.


"But at the end, the result was worse than the one we had when we
started."


The former Italian prime minister has moved on, but the
constitutional troubles remain and will be in the backs of minds
of EU leaders in Berlin on Sunday during the 50th anniversary
celebrations.


Many of Europe's biggest problems are also resolved at the dinner
table.


"In general it works quite well," Brunmayr said.


"The leaders are freer, they don't have their collaborators
behind them -- collaborators mean also controllers. It's easier
to give in and change position when they are alone."


Despite Europe's constitutional blues, Brunmayr is astonished by
the EU's achievements.


"When there is a real need, then Europe makes a new effort and
there is a big step forward," he said.


"It always strikes me when I talk to visitors from third
countries, who see us from the outside. They always say: 'That's
amazing what you have achieved'."

