

The United States, Britain and the Netherlands have all
criticised a prisoner release deal made with the Taliban by Italy
and Afghanistan to secure the release of an Italian journalist.


The United States has complained to Italy over the exchange of
several members of the Afghan militia in exchange for Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, who was freed on Monday in southern Afghanistan, a
US official in Washington said.


The United States, Britain and the Netherlands -- who all have
troops fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan -- all said that
handing over Taliban fighters sent the wrong message to hostage-
takers.


"The UK has serious concerns about the implications of releasing
Taliban in return for hostages," a spokeswoman for Britain's
Foreign Office told AFP. "This sends the wrong signal to
prospective hostage-takers."


In Washington, a US official speaking on condition of anonymity,
said the swap increased the risk of similar kidnappings of NATO
and Afghan troops.


"Although we are pleased with the release of the Italian
journalist, Mr Mastrogiacomo, we do have some concerns about the
circumstances surrounding his release," the official said.


"It is US policy to use every appropriate resource to gain the
safe return of hostages, but to make no concessions to
individuals of groups holding those hostages," she said, adding
that the United States "did not and do not approve of concessions
to terrorists."


"In this case, these concessions caught the US by surprise.


"We believe that these concessions increase the risk to NATO and
to Afghan troops and to the Afghan people," the official added,
saying Washington had "communicated those concerns" to Italy
through diplomatic channels.


Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen, on a visit to Kabul on
Wednesday, said governments should not give in to hostage-takers.


"When we create a situation where you can buy the freedom of
Taliban fighters when you catch a journalist, then in the short
term there will be no journalists anymore," he said.


"The Dutch government will not give in to such a situation
because otherwise you will support the taking of hostages and we
don't want it," he told reporters at a media briefing at the end
of a three-day visit.


The Afghan president's office has admitted that some Taliban
prisoners were freed to gain Mastrogiacomo's freedom, without
stating how many.


A Taliban commander told an Afghan news agency that five Taliban
prisoners were released in the deal.


Mastrogiacomo was captured in the southern province of Helmand on
March 4 with a translator and a driver. The journalist said his
driver was beheaded in front of him.


Britain has 6,300 troops in Afghanistan as part of the
International Security Assistance Force, most of whom are in
Helmand province, with 1,400 more due to join them.


In Rome, press reports said the Italian defence ministry also had
concerns over the deal with the Taliban.


While Prime Minister Romano Prodi warmly thanked the humanitarian
agency Emergency for its efforts in obtaining Mastrogiacomo's
release, Defence Minister Arturo Parisi was angry, according to
the daily Corriere della Sera.


Parisi said that "entrusting the negotiations to (Emergency
founder) Gino Strada was a serious mistake," Corriere reported
citing an unnamed source close to the minister.


Corriere said Parisi felt "the political price that we have
already paid could be much higher in the future" in Afghanistan,
where Italy has some 2,000 troops deployed in ISAF.


The economic daily Il Sole-24 Ore said the defence minister
feared the prisoner exchange may have set "a dangerous
precedent."

