

Pakistani Taliban commanders tried Thursday to negotiate a
ceasefire between tribesmen and foreign Al-Qaeda militants after
fierce battles left 114 people dead, officials said.


Intermittent heavy weapons fire continued Thursday in the rugged
South Waziristan tribal area bordering Afghanistan, after a brief
truce the previous night to allow the tribesmen and their Uzbek
opponents to bury the dead.


The Pakistani government says the clashes, which broke out on
Monday, show that its efforts to get Taliban-sympathising
tribesmen to expel foreign extremists are working.


However intelligence officials said that the "jirga" or tribal
council overseeing the negotiations included Baitullah Mahsud, a
Taliban chief wanted in connection with a string of suicide
bombings in Pakistan earlier this year.


Another member of the "jirga" or tribal council running the talks
is Sirajuddin Haqqani, son of former minister in Afghanistan's
1996-2001 Taliban regime, Jalaluddin Haqqani.


"Top Taliban commanders have assembled in Wana to negotiate a
ceasefire between Uzbeks and local Taliban backed by the
government," a local security source told AFP.


"There is still a tense stand-off between the rival factions with
occasional firing. Local tribesmen were adamant that first
foreign militants should surrender and only after that they would
agree to a ceasefire."


The fighting started Monday after ex-Taliban commander Mullah
Nazir, whom the government says has come over to its side,
ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


Officials said Yuldashev, who leads a group called the Islamic
Movement of Uzbekistan, was formerly a close confidant of Osama
bin Laden. He has been sentenced to death in absentia for
bombings in the Uzbek capital, Tashkent.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.


A local intelligence official said Nazir, the tribal leader, had
"refused to meet the jirga."


The tribesmen also raided a private jail used by the Uzbek
militants and found a large cache of arms including 188
Kalashnikov rifles, 175 rocket propelled grenades, 1,800 hand
grenades and thousands of bullets, officials said.


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao said late Wednesday that 84 Uzbek
militants and 30 local tribesmen, including nine civilians, had
been killed. Another 83 Uzbeks were captured by the tribal
forces, he said.


Local officials said Thursday they had no further information on
the toll.


Sherpao said the battles showed the "success of the policy the
government pursued in the region for the betterment of tribal
people" and to persuade them to drive out foreign militants.


Local sources say the government has covertly armed, financed and
helped the tribesmen and helped former "jihadi" fighters linked
to insurgencies in Indian Kashmir and Afghanistan infiltrate the
area.


Residents said Pakistani troops had also fired some shells at
militant positions on Wednesday.


The government and army say they are not giving military,
logistical or financial support to the tribesmen but add that
they back their actions.

