

UN chief Ban Ki-moon departs Thursday for a tour of Egypt,
Israel, the Palestinian territories, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and
Lebanon to voice support for efforts to re-energize the Middle
East peace process.


Ban's first stop on the 11-day tour will be Egypt, followed by
the Palestinian territories, Israel and Jordan.


He is then to attend the Arab League summit in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, on Saturday, before traveling to Lebanon. He will be back
at UN headquarters in New York on Monday.


Ban aides said that the secretary general's main priorities
during the trip would be the Middle East peace process, efforts
to end the four-month political crisis in Lebanon and Sudan's
Darfur region, and the UN role in the Iraq Compact for economic
development.


Ban sees "a renewed dynamism in diplomacy in the Arab world" and
wants to "express his support to ongoing efforts to re-energize
the Middle East peace process" during his attendance at the
Riyadh summit, UN spokeswoman Michele Montas said Monday.


The following day Montas clarified remarks made by Ban in an
interview with the Voice of America that he had found reports
coming from the Palestinian government "disappointing" after a
new Fatah-Hamas coalition declared its right to all forms of
resistance.


"The secretary general views establishment of the new government
of Palestine as a positive step forward and he wants to encourage
that process," the spokeswoman said. "At the same he expresses
disappointment because he would like to see the program of the
national unity government fully reflect Quartet principles."


She added that the UN chief would be watching "very carefully the
new government's actions and hopes to see further positive
movements."


Wednesday Ban joined his partners in the so-called Mideast
"Quartet" -- the US, Russia, and the European Union -- in
reaffirming that the government led by the radical Islamic group
Hamas must formally renounce violence, recognize Israel and
accept past accords with the Jewish state.


But in an apparent gesture to moderates who have joined the
government under a deal between Hamas and the Western-backed
Palestinian Authority president Mahmud Abbas, the Quartet said
the new leadership would not be judged solely on its "composition
and platform, but also its actions".


The statement, issued after two days of deliberations, was signed
by Ban, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, EU
external relations commissioner Benita Benita Ferrero-Waldner and
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany, the current
EU president.


The Quartet has imposed a devastating aid and diplomatic boycott
on the Palestinian government since Hamas gained control after
defeating Fatah in elections early last year.


But Russia and some European leaders want to ease the isolation
of the new Palestinian government, in which Hamas holds the prime
ministership and 11 other portfolios while Fatah and independents
control 13.


Ban was to meet Rice in Jerusalem Sunday, UN officials said.


The top US diplomat was due to leave Friday for her own Middle
East tour during which she was to hold separate talks with Abbas
and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, whose government has
ruled out any dealings with the new Palestinian government.

