

Budding actor Alexandre Despatie put his movie career on hold to
compete at the World Swimming Championships here and  gave China
notice Thursday that he means business.


The reigning 1m and 3m springboard world champion, whose first
film, a French- Canadian teen flick called "On Your Marks -
Party," comes out later this year, was in irresistable form.


He upstaged world number one He Chong and his teammate Kai Qin in
the preliminary rounds of the 3m event and appears to be the only
person who stands in the way of a Chinese clean sweep of all 10
gold medals here.


China has won four out of four titles so far.


Despatie, a superstar in Canada who also acts as a global
ambassador for a leading fast food chain and has his own website,
opened his campaign with an impressive 81 points.


It wasn't enough to frighten the Chinese pair who scored higher
with their own impressive moves.


But consistent dives from Despatie kept him chasing before a
beautifully-timed and smooth forward three-and-a-half somersault
landed him 89.25 points and the top position.


From there he never looked back, finishing with an impressive
486.65 points with Qin ending in second on 474.50 points and He
in third on 470.75.


The final is on Friday.


Despatie, who missed most of last year with a neck injury,
admitted China was the world's best but said he was planning to
gatecrash the party here and at the Beijing Olympics next year.


"A lot of people make too big deal about the Chinese divers," he
said.


"I keep saying they are going to be amazing (at the Beijing
Games) but it is our job to try and be at the same level. My job
is to go to Beijing in the best shape that I can.


"I feel good, I'm very happy I made it after four hours of
competition here.


"It's very hard to stay focused for the whole time and to react
after 35-40 minutes between one dive and the other. But today I
was feeling very comfortable on the board."


China's He said he didn't perform at his best, saying he was
tired after finishing second in the 1m springboard final on
Wednesday.


"I am a bit tired as I had to compete Wednesday night. I didn't
execute what I normally do in training," said He, who began
diving when he was four.


"It can be quite tiring, and you have to keep your joints and
tendons warm. But then again, you have to get used to it."


Despatie shot to prominence after winning the gold medal in the
10m platform event at the 1998 Commonwealth Games as a 13-year-
old .


At the last world championships in 2005, in his native Montreal,
he enhanced his superstar status by claiming the springboard
double.


The women's 1m springboard preliminaries are held later Thursday
with China's He Zi and Li Ting firm favourites.

