

Cuba is optimistic it could soon see a breakthrough in exploiting
major oil reserves, officials said this week, a potential shift
that could make the cash- strapped communist regime a flush
energy exporter.


"We are sure. We are convinced" that major oil reserves lie in
the Gulf of Mexico just north of the island, Basic Industry
Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters at the Geosciences
Conference 2007 in Havana.


Cuban authorities are betting big that black gold from its waters
could once and for all could eliminate the perpetual Achilles'
heel of the local economy: energy.


Cuba's power plants run mainly on imported oil. If the country's
planned economy is short on oil or gasoline (petrol), power
shortages ensue, food doesn't make it to market, and long lines
of commuters snake from bus stops.


At the moment, the Americas' only one-party communist regime gets
cut-rate oil from Venezuela.


But depending on the relationship with Venezuela's President Hugo
Chavez also makes the Cuban economy vulnerable.


With many international investors and experts eager to get a
piece of this untouched pie, Manuel Marrero, oil sector advisor
in the Basic Industry ministry, cautioned: "a substantial
increase (in output) only will be possible in the Cuban sector in
the Gulf of Mexico, and will take enormous efforts, huge
investment and perseverance."


Yet "2008 is going to be very promising insofar as undersea
seismic studies and drilling in areas of our economic zone,"
Garcia said.


Next year, she added, "the drilling phase in the blocs we are
working with Repsol" will start.


The Spanish multinational is just one of the firms elbowing in,
along with Norsk Hydro, Canada's Sherrit, Malaysia's Petronas and
India's Videsh.


Cuba has divided its exclusive zone into 59 blocs for exploration
and production, 16 of which are contracted out. Repsol has six,
Sherrit and Petronas have four each, while Videsh has two.


Eight more are under negotiation -- four with Venezuela's state-
owned PDVSA and another four with an Asian country which Cuba has
not disclosed. The other 35 are still up for grabs.


Repsol in 2005 was the first to break ground in the area, but the
company determined the crude it discovered was not commercially
exploitable at that time.


Repsol brought in partners in Videsh and Norsk Hydro to share the
risk and to benefit from Norsk's technology, in order to keep
exploring in its six blocs.


While US lawmakers opposed to Cuba's communist regime have warned
drilling in waters between Cuba and US shores could present
potential environmental concerns, some US multinationals are
irked that the US economic embargo is keeping them from getting
in on this potential gold rush.


US companies "have been coming, talking, checking things out ...
but we are not the ones limiting them. It is the US government,"
Garcia said.


She said Cuba would work with US oil companies "just as we do
with other countries, so long as laws are respected, negotiating
rules are respected, we have no reservations."


In 2006 Cuba produced about 3.9 million tonnes of oil, seven
times more than 1990 when the former East bloc collapsed,
depriving Cuba of its long-accustomed supply of cut-rate Soviet
crude.


Marrero said that with new wells found north of Havana and
development of existing functioning reserves, output could hit
five million tonnes by 2010 -- for now still well below Cuba's
consumption estimated at about nine million tonnes two years ago.


Cubapetroleo, known as Cupet, also says that Cuba has 43
exploration blocs mapped out inside close territorial waters and
on land (15 offshore and 28 on land).


Among companies involved in production in them are Sherrit,
Peberco, also from Canada; and Chinese giant Sinopec. Five are
under negotiation and 33 open.

