

The US Federal Reserve is shifting gears with a new stand on
monetary policy that has drawn conflicting views from economists
but sparked a major rally on the stock market.


The Federal Open Market Committee left its key rate at 5.25
percent after a two- day meeting Wednesday, as expected. But its
new policy statement was alternately described as both "dovish"
and "hawkish" by analysts.


On one hand, the Fed dropped a reference to "firming" or hiking
rates, substituting the phrase "future policy adjustments" that
would depend on economic data.


This fueled hopes of a rate cut sometime soon, but analysts were
divided on the significance of this shift.


But the Fed also sent a strong message on inflation, saying this
was its "predominant policy concern." The statement said
inflation pressures "seem likely to moderate over time" but that
the "high level of resource utilization has the potential to
sustain those pressures."


"I think this is the most realistic statement I have seen from
the Fed in a long time," said Joel Naroff at Naroff Economic
Advisors.


"The conundrum that the Fed faces of softer growth and stubborn
inflation has heightened. The statement is indicating a lot more
uncertainty among the Fed members."


Despite this uncertainty, Wall Street cheered the announcement,
staging a powerful rally that lifted the Dow Jones Industrial
Average 1.3 percent and the Nasdaq 1.98 percent. This came as
futures markets priced in a 50 percent chance of a rate cut by
June.


Naroff said the stock market "correctly" interpreted the Fed
announcement as opening the door to a possible rate cut.


"You've got to move to neutral before you can cut rates, and now
the Fed has gone to neutral," Naroff said.


Even if this means some economic softness in the near term,
Naroff said the statement suggests that if the economic sputters,
"the Fed will cut rates, probably very aggressively, so further
down the line the economic problems would dissipate."


The Fed dropped a reference from its January 31 statement
referring to a possible "additional firming," or hike in rates.
Instead, the FOMC said, "future policy adjustments will depend on
the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic
growth, as implied by incoming information."


In this respect, said economist Marie-Pierre Ripert at IXIS
Corporate and Investment Bank, "the statement is much more dovish
than expected as the Fed removed its tightening bias."


Other analysts said they viewed the statement differently,
arguing that the Fed was trying to signal the economy remains on
track for moderate growth despite fears of a crisis in the so-
called "subprime" mortgage sector, where loans are made to people
with below-average credit, that could spread throughout the
economy.


Economist John Shin at Lehman Brothers said he read the statement
as "hawkish" despite the new language, because the rest of the
statement appeared to be more focused on steady growth and
inflation risks.


"They had a large opportunity to refer to the weaker data flow,
to market volatility and they didn't," Shin said. "They don't
sound deferentially worried."


The new language "does appear more balanced, but nevertheless,
the rest of the communique leading up to that is really
emphasizing that the economy looks OK," said Craig Alexander,
deputy chief economist at TD Bank Financial Group, who called the
statement "very hawkish."


Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo, said the
statement does little to change the near-term outlook for the
Fed.


"They did downgrade their assessment of the economy but it
doesn't seem like they're too worried about a slowdown," said
Anderson.


This sends the message the economy remains on track and suggests
"a prolonged holding pattern" for the Fed, Anderson noted, "maybe
longer than the markets are anticipating."


Anderson said he believes the Fed will probably remain on hold
through the end of this year: "We're not predicting a cut from
the Fed until the first quarter of 2008 at the earliest."

