

Ousted Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra could return from
exile later this year if prosecutors file criminal charges
against him, his lawyer said Wednesday.


Noppadol Pattama said the Thai legal system would require
Thaksin, who has  been living abroad since he was deposed in a
coup last September, to appear in court to defend himself against
any charges.


"If the defendant is not here, the court cannot begin hearing
(the case)," Noppadol told reporters. "The former prime minister
will come back if the court calls him," he added.


No criminal charges have yet been filed against Thaksin, but the
junta which seized power last year has tasked an anti-graft body
with investigating 14 alleged cases of corruption under Thaksin's
government.


"Prosecutors are working on evidence and it is possible that
charges will be filed towards the end of the year and Thaksin
could come back by the end of the year," Noppadol said.


So far, the Assets Scrutinizing Committee (ASC) has only
completed one of the 14 cases, putting pressure on the junta to
speed up investigations into alleged graft, one of the key
reasons given for toppling Thaksin.


Following ASC recommendations, Thai prosecutors last week said
they would file criminal charges against Thaksin's wife Pojaman
Shinawatra, her step-brother and her secretary over alleged tax
evasion.


The tax evasion charges stem from a 1997 deal in which Pojaman
and her step- brother sold shares in the family's Shinawatra
Computer and Communication, which later became Thailand's telecom
giant Shin Corp.


Noppadol told reporters that Pojaman was currently in Thailand,
and would appear in court on Monday to seek bail.


Thaksin was in New York when the military toppled his government
on September 19 and has remained in exile since, hopping between
Europe and Asia.


He is currently in London, but Noppadol said his client would fly
to Washington next week to meet friends. Thaksin has hired two US
lobbying firms, both based in Washington.


Noppadol said the businessman-turned-politician would likely
return to Thailand after elections, which Thailand's military
leaders have promised for the end of the year.

