

Nepal's Maoists are facing serious questions over their
commitment to peace amid mounting complaints of continued
beatings, extortion and abductions by group members, analysts
say.


The capital Kathmandu has been crippled this week by a strike and
furious protests by business leaders who have lost patience with
the leftists' mafia- style conduct, something the Maoists had
promised to end.


In the latest of a string of reported incidents, a hotelier said
he was snatched and beaten after refusing to fork out cash and
free rooms to rebels.


"With these reports of extortion and abductions, the credibility
of the Maoists has been severely damaged," said Kapil Shrestha, a
political analyst and professor from Nepal's Tribhuvan
University.


"Their continued use of violence and intimidation goes against
the spirit of the peace deal," Shrestha told AFP.


The Maoists had publicly promised to abandon violence when they
signed the landmark deal four months ago that brought them into
the political mainstream and ended their decade-long "people's
war" that claimed thousands of lives.


But hotel owner Harilal Shrestha said Maoist members forcibly
took him last weekend from his hotel on Kathmandu's swankiest
shopping street.


"The Maoists demanded 10 million rupees (140,000 dollars) and 10
rooms. When I said I could not meet those demands they abducted
me and severely beat me," Shrestha told reporters, sporting a
black eye and swollen lips.


Reports of continued assaults and extortion by lower level cadres
persist, and the optimism created by the peace pact is fading
amid fears the Maoists may not be able to change their ways.


"Everybody believed the Maoists would improve their character,
but they are not giving up their old habits of using violent
pressure tactics," Shrestha said.


Since the peace deal, the Maoists' charismatic leader Prachanda
has overseen the surrender of rebel weapons to the United Nations
and the registration of many of his former fighters as
combatants.


But in the face of the strike by business leaders -- which has
seen the capital's shops close down and the country cut off from
the Internet for two hours a day -- he has also been forced to
admit to "some mistakes".


"We are ready to correct them," he promised on Wednesday, as
hotel owners threatened to start turfing out tourists as part of
their protest even though such a move would hurt their revenues.


Rekha Shrestha, a senior correspondent with the Himalayan Times,
pointed to what she described as a credibility gap.


"It's quite embarrassing, because the Maoist leaders are saying
one thing, but lower level cadres are doing another. They are
losing credibility day by day," she said.


"Maybe the leaders have not been able to communicate new policies
effectively, or maybe the lower level cadres are not taking
orders or listening to their leaders."


The affair has also undermined Nepal's seven-party government,
which took a big political gamble by signing the peace deal with
the former rebels.


"The government has to accept part of the blame for the continued
criminal activities of the Maoists because they have allowed the
Maoists to repeatedly break the law," said politics professor
Shrestha.


And if the situation continues, the peace process could start to
be undermined, another observer warned.


"The environment for new investment has worsened. Businesses are
fearful of starting new projects," said Bijaya Ghimire, the
chairman of Nepal's Society for Economic Journalists.


Nepal's already fragile economy was shattered by the Maoist
conflict, and Ghimire said the Maoists needed to help rebuild the
nation if they are to stand any chance of firmly placing
themselves in the political mainstream.


"If this trend continues," Ghimire said of the abductions and
beatings, "it will be difficult for them to prove themselves as a
legitimate political force."

