

An embattled White House faced the prospect that top aides could
be summoned to testify before Congress, as a fight over fired
prosecutors threatened to erupt into a constitutional crisis.


A House of Representatives panel on Wednesday approved subpoenas
for five senior administration officials as defiant Democrats in
Congress pushed for answers as to whether eight federal
prosecutors were sacked last year for political reasons.


A separate committee in the Senate was poised take up the issue
of subpoenas on Thursday.


The possibility that White House political guru Karl Rove and
others could be forced to testify under oath further strained
President George W. Bush's relations with a Democratic-controlled
Congress already at odds with Bush over the unpopular Iraq war.


Bush, who has accused the Democrats of a "partisan fishing
expedition," had offered to allow un-transcribed, behind-closed-
door interviews on condition that there would be no subsequent
subpoenas of his advisers.


The president also said he would "absolutely" fight any such
summons in the courts, setting the stage for a possible
constitutional battle before the US Supreme Court.


And he has stood by his embattled Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales who is facing calls to resign over the affair.


While the House committee authorized subpoenas, it did not issue
them to White House aides and Democrats signaled there was still
time for a compromise to avoid a legal confrontation in the high
court.


"Trust me," said Representative John Conyers, chair of the House
Judiciary Committee. "We are not going to move in a reckless or
angry or temperamental way at all."


Minutes before the House vote, Conyers called subpoenas a "back-
up" plan if the White House resisted open testimony.


Democratic Representative Linda Sanchez, whose subcommittee
authorized the subpoenas, said the move meant they would hear
from key witnesses and obtain "complete versions of documents we
have thus far received only in redacted form."


"We are greatly concerned that this purge was intended to allow
prosecutors to be used as simply one more instrument of political
control instead of to administer justice equally to all," Sanchez
said.


White House spokesman Tony Snow warned that issuing subpoenas
would moot Bush's offer, but said he hoped lawmakers would
relent.


Snow flatly ruled out any compromises and said Bush would not
budge from what he called the "very generous and reasonable
offer" of holding private, informal conversations.


Bush's aides say he is protecting his right as president to hear
candid, confidential advice, citing the convention of "executive
privilege."


"What we are doing is standing to the principle that internal
White House deliberations, we're not going to make it fair game,"
Snow said, adding that Bush was under "no compulsion" to make
White House aides available at all.


"Are you more interested in a political spectacle than getting
the truth?" he asked lawmakers rhetorically, rejecting calls for
at least a transcript because such a record might be used as "a
stage prop."


Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, fired back on MSNBC television saying:
"Actually, if you're in public and under oath, you tend to get a
lot more accurate."


The dispute over the prosecutors began when some of the attorneys
told Congress they were fired because they resisted pressure from
Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases.


While the White House and Justice Department have the right to
appoint and remove the 93 US attorneys -- who investigate and
prosecute court cases for the government -- replacements are
usually only carried out at the beginning of a president's
administration.

