

The injection of at least 15 All Blacks will strengthen New
Zealand Super 14 teams this weekend, but the draws favours South
Africa's Coastal Sharks staying at the top of the table.


The All Blacks who have been on a special World Cup conditioning
programme head on to the field saying they fitter, faster and
stronger than last year.


But while the training experiment may benefit them at the World
Cup in France later this year, the five Super 14 sides have been
hurt on the field and in the pocket.


Halfway through the competition and last year's Super 14
finalists -- the Canterbury Crusaders and Wellington Hurricanes
who contribute the bulk of the All Blacks -- are out of the top
four, with the Hurricanes a lowly 10th.


Meanwhile, the Sharks, with an eye on the immediate future, are
the only unbeaten team after seven rounds, and should not be
troubled at home against the ninth-placed ACT Brumbies on
Saturday.


However, coach Dick Muir has rejected the opportunity to rest
leading players, including the tireless AJ Venter, before heading
on an arduous four-match tour.


"We will probably have the same, or similar side to last week,"
said Muir. "The thoughts are of the same backline and the same
loose trio.


"We considered giving AJ a break, but he is really going well,
feeling strong, so we are managing him through the week and he's
raring to go."


The leading New Zealand side, the Auckland Blues, have included
just one of their four reconditioned All Blacks -- hooker Keven
Mealamu -- for Friday night's clash with the lowly New South
Wales Waratahs.


Even then, he is only on the bench because of injury to back-up
hooker Saimone Taumoepeau.


While the second-placed Blues are to slowly introduce their
glamour four into Super 14 play, the Crusaders have rushed all
six of their returning All Blacks into their starting 15 to face
the Stormers in Christchurch.


Coach Robbie Deans has also named a five-two split on the bench
in favour of the forwards because he fears the legs of All Blacks
Chris Jack and Reuben Thorne could turn to jelly in the second
spell.


"Essentially the guys up front are going to have the hardest job
in terms of the adjustment from training to playing. Their lungs
are going to burn earliest and longest and their legs are going
to feel it as well," he said.


But in the backs Dan Carter, Aaron Mauger and Leon MacDonald are
expected to play the full 80 minutes in their first game of the
year.


The Stormers, the worst performing South African team in 11th
place, have also included quick-stepping fullback Brent Russell
in their starting 15 although he is under an injury cloud.


The fourth-placed Northern Bulls, looking to bounce back from
last week's loss to the Crusaders, have brought back Victor
Matfield for Saturday's encounter with the Otago Highlanders.


Highlanders' All Blacks Anton Oliver and Carl Hayman will both
start off the bench.


In a mid-table battle where every game counts, the Hurricanes are
expected to play all six All Blacks -- including the loose trio
of Rodney So'oialo, Jerry Collins and Chris Masoe -- against the
Lions at Ellis Park.


While the Hurricanes are on the back foot after three consecutive
losses, they are at least already in South Africa, while the
Lions have had to travel to Johannesburg after last Friday's loss
to the Waikato Chiefs in New Zealand.


The Chiefs, who notched up their first win of the season against
the Lions, travel to Brisbane to play the bottom-of-the-table
Queensland Reds.


They will play both their available returning All Blacks, Byron
Kelleher and Sitiveni Sivivatu.


Two of the 22 All Blacks selected for the reconditioning
programme, the Chiefs Mils Muliaina and Greg Somerville of the
Crusaders, are sidelined by injury.


The third-placed Western Force and the sixth-placed Central
Cheetahs have a bye this weekend.

