

Nestled close to the borders of the Czech Republic and Poland,
the small German town of Zittau was held up as a symbol of the
eastward expansion of the European Union in 2004.


Three years on, unemployment remains high and the town is
emptying as businesses are undercut by their cheaper Polish and
Czech counterparts.


Ask most residents to name the most visible sign of EU
enlargement around here and one mundane answer keeps coming up.


"You don't get queues at the border any more," said Gudrun
Laufer, the head of the town's chamber of commerce.


Zittau was an obvious choice to host one of the main ceremonies
on May 1, 2004, when Europe's club threw open its doors to the
former communist east.


The Friedenstrasse, or Peace Road, runs through the town into the
Czech Republic. Go a kilometre (half a mile) further and it
crosses into Polish territory.


Hundreds of German cars cross the borders heading east every day,
although their drivers rarely explore much further than the
filling station -- petrol prices in Poland and the Czech Republic
are far cheaper than in Germany.


"I don't even know what petrol costs in Germany any more," said
Rainer Harbarth, who leads the former communist PDS party on the
town council.


Germans also head east for cheap haircuts and perms, with
disastrous consequences for the salons in Zittau.


"One business after another is closing and life is draining out
of the town," Harbarth said.


Before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Zittau had 38,000
residents and a centre of production of lignite and textiles.
Today, just 25,000 people live there.


The pretty, freshly painted facades of the town centre only
partly hide the fact that 4,500 properties lie empty.


"Zittau is soon going to become an old people's home. Young
people are leaving to look for work elsewhere," said Andreas
Johne, one of the lawmakers from the conservative Christian
Democratic Union (CDU) in the town.


EU enlargement has done nothing to improve the unemployment rate
in Zittau, which is around 20 percent.


Many people feared it could have been worse. Zittau was bracing
for an invasion of 'cheap labour' from Poland and the Czech
Republic, but restrictions on the free movement of workers in the
EU prevented that from happening.


In fact, in a turnaround few expected three years ago, some
Zittau residents are now crossing the borders to look for work.


But the head of the local employment office, Simone Kessler, said
the trend was limited "because there are still big differences in
salary between the different countries."


With its former industries now closed, Zittau is looking to re-
invent itself by attempting to develop links between German,
Polish and Czech companies.


"The idea is that a German t-shirt manufacturer sub-contracts
part of the production to the Czech Republic, allowing him to
sell the product more cheaply," said chamber of commerce chief
Laufer.


"The region is a dream for foreign investors because of its close
proximity to the eastern European market," said Holger Knuepfer,
the director of the town's economic development office.


"This region has an economic future after all."

