

It is indicative of how far Owen Hargreaves's international stock
has risen over the last year that he knows he will walk straight
back into the England side for their Euro 2008 qualifier against
Israel here on Saturday.


The Bayern Munich midfielder, once ridiculed by sections of the
England support, was, along with Joe Cole, arguably one of only
two English players to emerge from last summer's World Cup with
his reputation enhanced.


And events in the aftermath of what was a disappointing campaign
in Germany have only served to consolidate his recently-acquired
status as an automatic choice at the base of England's midfield
diamond.


While Hargreaves was sidelined by the broken leg he suffered
playing for his club in a Bundesliga defeat at Arminia Bielefeld
in September, England were busy making life unnecessarily
difficult for themselves in group E.


A scrappy goalless draw at home to Macedonia was followed by a
tactical shambles in Croatia that resulted in a 2-0 defeat which
has left Steve McClaren's squad in third place in the group,
knowing a setback in the Ramat Gan stadium here on Saturday night
could be fatal to their chances of reaching next year's finals in
Austria and Switzerland.


But Hargreaves, whose return to action for Bayern helped his club
eliminate Real Madrid from the Champions League earlier this
month, has no qualms about re- entering the fray at a time when
England are really feeling the heat.


"This is the next step, to be back with England and I feel I am
ready," the 26 -year-old declared. "I played against Real Madrid
after only one game in the league, so this is just the next
step."


The qualities Hargreaves showcased at the World Cup - apparently
unsappable energy, bite in the tackle and a growing tactical
maturity - have made him Manchester United's number one target
and it seems likely a deal will be done with Bayern at the end of
this season.


They have also established him as McClaren's preferred option as
the anchorman in a midfield in which Frank Lampard will be given
the freedom to roam forward with Steven Gerrard operating from
the right and, in the absence of long-term injury victim Joe
Cole, Aaron Lennon on the left.


That Hargreaves could enjoy such status would have been difficult
to predict even as recently as the start of the last year, when
the Canadian-born midfielder was still having to deal with
regular doses of abuse from England fans unconvinced that he
belonged on the international stage.


That particular debate has long since fallen off the agenda, and
Hargreaves insists he always believed that the fans would be won
over once he got beyond the brief end-of-match cameos which
characterised his early international career.


"The most important thing for me was always that the manager
picks me and that he thinks I can do a job to help the team win,"
he reflected.


"I don't need any more show of faith than that. Obviously, it
makes the job easier when the fans are behind you and chanting
your name. But either way, whether they're booing you or cheering
you, you still have to go out and do the job.


"The most faith I've been shown is from (Sven-Goran) Eriksson and
McClaren in the sense that they've always played me - even in
times when possibly other people were doubting me. They showed a
lot of support for me and my team mates did as well. Those are
the things I look for."


Now Hargreaves will seek to reward some of that faith by helping
to calm the nerves of those who think England could be set to
miss out on a major tournament for the first time since the 1994
World Cup in the United States.


A feeble display against Spain in a friendly last month did
nothing to bolster morale, but Hargreaves is optimistic that
England can rediscover the knack they enjoyed under Eriksson of
winning the qualifying games that count.


"If you're playing for Bayern Munich, Manchester United or
Liverpool every game is a must-win," he said. "That's the way
it's been ever since I came through, especially the England
games. Definitely, with the position we're in, we need the three
points."

