

Prolonged drought along the Yangtze has reduced China's longest
river to record lows, triggering a debate over the Three Gorges
dam's ability to generate power, state media said Thursday.


The Yangtze last year fell to its lowest level since records
began in 1877, but a dam official told the Xinhua news agency
that power generation in the Three Gorges area would not be
affected.


"There have never been two successive years when a serious drop
in the amount of water flowing into the mainstream of the Yangtze
has occurred," said the official, identified only by his surname
Yuan.


"(So) I believe it is unlikely there will be a significant drop
in the inflow of water into the Three Gorges Reservoir from the
upper reaches this year," he said.


However, Xinhua quoted observers as saying such arguments, based
on historical data, failed to take into consideration the more
recent issue of climate change.


The Ministry of Water Resources Wang Shucheng said earlier this
month that extreme and abnormal climatic phenomena like drought
and floods have occurred more frequently due to global warming in
recent years, Xinhua said.


More than 2.6 million people in southwest China's Sichuan
province and Chongqing municipality, upstream from the dam, have
been suffering from drinking water shortages since late February,
according to the agency.


China Three Gorges Project Corp. signed a contract with the State
Grid Corp. of China last December to sell 370 billion kilowatt-
hours of electricity over the next five years.


The dam generated more than 150 billion kilowatt-hours of
electricity in the period from July 2003 up till now, according
to Xinhua.


China says the dam is essential as a source of hydropower and to
stop the flooding along the Yangtze River that has killed
countless people and destroyed farmland for centuries.


Human rights groups, however, have said villagers were forced
from their homes, had their traditional ways of life destroyed
and were sent to live in cities against their will.


Questions have long been raised over whether the displaced have
received sufficient compensation, concerns highlighted by many
cases of official corruption related to the project, they said.

