

Whenever Sri Lanka play India, cricket becomes more than just a
batsmen's game as Muttiah Muralitharan, Harbhajan Singh and Anil
Kumble prove there is a room for ace spinners.


The two teams clash here on Friday in a crucial World Cup Group B
match looking forward to their spinners to deliver in the middle
overs, a vital phase in the game when batsmen build up an innings
before the closing-overs onslaught.


A spin feast is in the offing as Sri Lanka have a proven match-
winner in off- spinner Muralitharan and India have a pair in off-
spinner Harbhajan and leg- spinner Kumble.


Muralitharan has been asking more questions than batsmen can
answer in Tests and one-dayers ever since he burst on to the
international scene in the early 1990s.


He is different in that he does not always rely on pitches to
snare his victims, for he can turn the ball hugely on any
surface. He also has the accuracy and bounce to make life
miserbale for batsmen.


Former Pakistani off-spinner Saqlain Mushtaq may have been the
first to introduce 'doosra' to the game, but Muralitharan was the
first to turn it into a devastating weapon.


'Doosra' (the second one in Hindi) is a delivery that turns away
from the right- handed batsmen instead of coming into them like a
normal off-break. And not many batsmen have been able to unravel
this mystery from Muralitharan.


The Sri Lankan has won more matches for his team than any other
bowler, underlining his consistency in both forms of the game. It
is said that Sri Lanka struggle for wickets when Muralitharan has
an off-day.


Indian batsmen are considered the best against spin because they
have been brought up on low, slow turning pitches. But against
Muralitharan, they have also struggled for survival.


India were clueless against Muralitharan at Sharjah in the United
Arab Emirates in 2000, as the Sri Lankan grabbed seven wickets
for just 30 runs in 10 overs to bowl his side to victory.


Muralitharan is the second-highest wicket-taker in one-day
internationals with 435, behind only retired Pakistani left-arm
fast bowler Wasim Akram (502).


He has inspired many a spinner and Harbhajan is one of them.


The Indian may not have as many variations as the Sri Lankan, but
is second to none when it comes to containing runs in middle
runs. He gave away just 30 in 10 tight overs against Bangladesh
in the opening match here.


Harbhajan is deadly whevever the pitch offers him turn and
bounce. He was instrumental in stopping the Australian juggernaut
in 2001 when he captured 32 wickets in three Tests to script his
team's 2-1 series victory.


The 26-year-old is also the only Indian to take a Test hat-trick,
in the second match against Steve Waugh's Australians at Kolkata.


He may be more successful at home than away, but has been India's
best off- spinner in recent years with 170 wickets. He cannot run
through an innings on unhelpful surfaces, but can contain runs
with his discipline.


Kumble is a bowler with a difference. Unlike Muralitharan and
Harbhajan, he has never been reported for suspect action in his
illustrious career. He is the seventh-highest wicket-taker in
one-dayers with 337, the most by an Indian.


He cannot turn the ball as prodigiously as the Sri Lankan or
retired Australian leg-spinner Shane Warne, but is accurate and
faster through the air which have often caught the batsmen on the
wrong-foot.


Kumble was unplayable against the West Indies in the Hero Cup
final at Kolkata in 1993, grabbing six wickets for just 12 runs
off 6.1 overs to mastermind his team's victory.


He is the second bowler in Test history after Englishman Jim
Laker to bag 10 wickets in an innings, achieving the feat against
Pakistan at Delhi in 1999. He is also the highest Indian wicket-
taker in Tests with 547.


The 36-year-old Kumble is playing in his last World Cup and would
like to bow out in style.

