

A Paris court was to deliver its verdict Thursday in the trial of
a satirical French weekly sued by two Muslim groups for
publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.


The Paris Grand Mosque and the Union of Islamic Organisations of
France took Charlie Hebdo to court for reprinting cartoons that
appeared in a Danish newspaper, sparking angry protests by
Muslims worldwide.


The court's decision was due at 1.30 pm (1230 GMT).


The plaintiffs argued in last month's hearing that the cartoons
draw an offensive link between Islam and terrorism and asked for
30,000 euros (38,750 dollars) in damages. The state prosecutor
called for Val to be acquitted.


The trial was seen as an important test for freedom of expression
in France and large crowds crammed into the Paris courtroom to
hear the arguments put by both sides.


Charlie Hebdo editor Philippe Val told AFP: "I want to be
acquitted without the slightest ambiguity. If there is any
reservation whatsoever, I will appeal."


Val is answering a complaint of "publicly offending a group of
persons on the basis of their religion", a charge that also
carries a maximum penalty of six months in prison and a fine of
up to 22,500 euros.


One of the cartoons reprinted from Denmark's Jyllands-Posten
showed Mohammed wearing a turban shaped as a bomb, and a second
showing the prophet standing on a cloud, turning away suicide
bombers from paradise with the caption "Stop, stop, we ran out of
virgins."


A separate drawing by French cartoonist Cabu showed Mohammed
sobbing, holding his head in his hands and saying: "It is hard to
be loved by fools."


Francis Szpiner, a lawyer for the Paris Mosque, said his client
was "calmly awaiting" the verdict.


"The trial was useful and educational, and the Paris Mosque was
right to act," he said. "Freedom of expression was never in
danger, secularism was never in danger," he insisted, saying the
trial had provided an opportunity for "a high- quality republican
debate".


Candidates in next month's French presidential election lined up
during the trial to defend their ideas about religion and freedom
of expression, while a group of 50 intellectuals including many
French Muslims published an open letter urging support for
Charlie Hebdo.


The editors of Jyllands-Posten were acquitted in October of any
wrongdoing in a separate case in a Danish court and very few
editors among the dozens of newspapers worldwide that re-printed
the cartoons have faced legal action.

