

Taiwan is studying the possibility of ending its ban on casinos
so as to boost its tourism industry, a move others such as
Singapore have already taken to exploit the boom in Chinese
travel overseas, an official said Thursday.


The Council for Economic Planning and Development (CEPD) is
evaluating the impact of lifing the exiting ban on casinos, with
special consideration being paid to issues of social morals and
family values, a CEPD spokeswoman said.


"Casino licensing is just one of the government's options aimed
at raising the tourism revenue," the spokeswoman said.


"We are employing a prudent manner to study whether and how the
licensing will help achieve the goal of boosting tourism. No
decision has been made," she said.


The council is scheduled to release a report on the study in the
second half of this year.


In 2005, tourism revenue in Taiwan totaled 10.96 billion US
dollars, little changed from 2004, accounting for 3.17 percent of
the island's gross domestic product (GDP). The 2006 figures will
be released in July or August.


The CEPD spokeswoman said the casino liberalisation is a
complicated issue for a society where gambling is viewed badly
but allows sales of lotteries for welfare purposes.


Chu Yen-min, head of research at KGI Securities, said he supports
casino operations in Taiwan.


"Casinos in neighbouring countries, such as Macau, Singapore and
South Korea, are attracting many foreign visitors. I think
casinos will help the local tourism industry," Chu said.


The southern Chinese enclave of Macau has come to rival Las Vegas
as one of the world's largest gambling centres with gaming
revenue soaring 22 percent to seven billion dollars in 2006.


"The local tourism sector wants to accommodate more mainland
Chinese visistors. Casinos will certainly become a big attraction
once the Taipei government allows more Chinese tourists to visit
the island," Chu said.


Taiwan is negotiating with Beijing on relaxing toursim controls.
It currently grants tourist entry permits only to Chinese who are
studying overseas, who are permanent residents of third countries
or who are travelling on to other destinations.


The island has banned direct trade and transport exchanges with
China since the two sides split in 1949 at the end of a civil
war.

