

Tiger Woods has plenty of reasons to feel confident this week
when Doral's Blue Course hosts the World Golf Championships WGC-
CA Championship.


For the past two years, Woods has claimed the title of the US PGA
Tour's Ford Championship at Doral, and he is the defending
champion of what was previously known as the WGC American Express
Championship, now transmuted into the WGC-CA.


At last year's American Express Championship, Woods cruised to an
eight-shot victory at The Grove in England.


Woods' last two victories on Doral's "Blue Monster" came in US
tour events with a 144-man field. He'll have fewer than half that
many competitors this week.


The re-named CA Championship is one of three tournaments Woods
has won five times along with the Buick Invitational and the
Bridgestone Invitational.


Doral seems to be the perfect place for Woods to bounce back from
a lacklustre week and rev up his game for the Masters in two
weeks.


Woods opened the Arnold Palmer Invitational in Orlando last week
with a 64 but struggled the rest of the way. He was six-over on
his final three holes of the event.


"I've definitely fixed it, but you know, it was just frustrating,
because I've made some uncharacteristic mistakes with my club
selection on some of the holes," Woods said.


"Some of the shots I hit off the tees, iron shots into the
greens, placing the golf ball. When I look back, yeah, you look
back at the finish, and I hit bad shots. But all throughout the
entire tournament, I kept making silly mistakes, mistakes I don't
normally make."


If Woods errs this week there are plenty of top players who will
be in position to capitalize


Jim Furyk, Phil Mickelson, Fiji's Vijay Singh - who won last week
at Bay Hill - Ireland's Padraig Harrington and Spain's Sergio
Garcia are all in the field and intent on ending Woods'
domination of the event.


England's David Howell is also in the field and keen to see some
sign that he is coming into form as the Masters approaches.


Two missed cuts, a first-round loss to Rory Sabbatini at the
World Match Play and a 29th-place finish at the Nissan Open is
all Howell has to show for 2007 so far.


But working with his coach a week ago the European Ryder Cup star
at last found something.


"We seemed to have flicked the switch and then suddenly a light
bulb went off in my head," he said.


"I had one major fault which I just couldn't seem to get out of.
I was going down one path trying to get rid of that fault really
and felt like I was beating my head against a brick wall.


"There's no better time to play poorly than January, February,
March in this game. From now on in you really want to be on your
game and I'm hoping that's going to be the case."


Englishman Justin Rose withdrew from the event with a disk
problem in his back. In Rose's absence, the field is 73 players,
17 of them Europeans.

