

India are determined to ward off the spectre of an early exit and
its repercussions as they gear up for their do-or-die clash with
Sri Lanka in the World Cup here on Friday.


India failed to do justice to their stature in the opening game
when they suffered a shock five-wicket defeat against Bangladesh,
leaving millions of their fans back home in a state of despair.


They thrashed debutants Bermuda by a record 257 runs in their
second game of the four-team group, but that was not enough to
put them in a comfortable frame of mind ahead of their final
match.


"I don't want to say there is no pressure. There is. It's a very
important game and the whole country is looking for India to
win," India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh told reporters here.


"We know it's an important task before the team. We have to step
forward from here and get in to Super Eight. Everybody knows it.
We are all focused. The boys are working hard."


Sri Lanka are the team in form, having won both of their matches
against Bangladesh and Bermuda by big margins. Bangladesh still
have a chance to qualify for the next round as they take on
Bermuda in their last game.


The top two sides will advance to the next round.


A defeat against Sri Lanka will be hard to swallow for fans in
cricket-crazy country, expecting their team to win the World Cup.
The loss against Bangladesh has already sparked unrest in some
parts of the country.


But India have the past to draw inspiration from as they began
their campaign on an unimpressive note in the 2003 edition in
South Africa before storming into the final against eventual
winners Australia.


They have managed to solve one of their major batting problems
ahead of the vital match after hard-hitting opener Virender
Sehwag's return to the big- scoring ways.


Sehwag, who had just one half-century in 14 one-dayers before the
Bermuda match, slammed an 87-ball 114. It was his first hundred
in nearly two years.


India may have won eight of their last 10 one-dayers against Sri
Lanka at home, but will have to raise their performance in the
crucial game considering their rivals' current form.


"It's a big game for all of us and we are looking forward to it.
The game will ensure who's going to carry two points into the
next round," said Sri Lanka skipper Mahela Jayawardene.


"We are not concentrating on this round alone, but have to think
about the next round as well. It's always good to carry two
points."


The two teams have clashed 94 times in one-day internationals,
with India winning 49 matches and losing 36. The remaining nine
games ended in no-results.


Sri Lanka gave disciplined performances in both the matches as
their batsmen and bowlers never allowed their opponents to settle
down.


Their batting bloomed, with Sanath Jayasuriya scoring an
explosive century against Bangladesh. Kumar Sangakkara and
Chamara Silva have made two successive half-centuries, while
Jayawardene scored 85 and 46 in two matches.

