

The father of Oscar-nominated Hollywood actress Michelle Williams
on Thursday won a court bid to prevent US authorities extraditing
him from Australia on tax evasion charges.


Stock market high-flyer Larry Williams, 64, whose daughter was
nominated for a best supporting actress Oscar for her role in
"Brokeback Mountain" and is the fiance of Australian star Heath
Ledger, was arrested in Sydney in May.


The US Internal Revenue Service alleges that the Virgin Islands'
resident -- grandfather of Ledger's baby daughter with Michelle
Williams -- evaded more than 1.5 million dollars in tax between
1999 and 2001.


Williams last year challenged the validity of a notice issued by
then Justice Minister Chris Ellison authorising a magistrate to
rule on the US extradition request.


He lost that case but an appeal to a full bench of the Federal
Court was successful, with three judges ruling Thursday that
Ellison's notice was invalid.


"In the present case, the material before the minister did not
even include a statement of the elements of the United States
offences," they said.


This meant that the minister was not in a position to decide
whether the requirements of the Extradition Act were met before
issuing the notice.


A delighted Williams hugged and kissed his partner Louise
Stapleton as the ruling was handed down.


He had been due to face an extradition hearing before a
magistrate next week, but the appeal judges noted that it would
not go ahead.


Government lawyers were expected to seek a stay on the judgment
while they consider a possible appeal to the High Court.


Williams has remained in Sydney on a million dollars (800,000 US)
bail since his arrest, with his movements restricted to certain
parts of the city where he had been due to begin a 24-day lecture
tour of Australia and New Zealand.


His daughter Michelle and Australian heart-throb Ledger fell in
love while filming Ang Lee's Oscar-winning 2005 gay cowboy movie
and had a daughter, Matilda, last year.

