

Putting out fires sharply increases the risk of dying from heart
failure, according to study released Wednesday that suggested
firefighting is by far the most dangerous profession for the
heart.


The Harvard School of Public Health study said that despite the
common assumption that key dangers include smoke inhalation and
burns, "the leading cause of death on duty among US firefighters
is coronary heart disease."


Overall, 45 percent of firefighter deaths in the past decade were
attributed to "cardiovascular events," compared with 22 percent
in police, 11 percent for emergency medical workers and 15
percent in all other professions, it said.


The study examined data on all US on-duty firefighter deaths
between 1994 and 2004, but excluded the hundreds of firefighters
whose deaths were associated with the September 11, 2001, attack
on the World Trade Center in New York.


"We found conclusive evidence that the risk of CHD (coronary
heart disease) death is significantly higher during fire
suppression, responding to alarms, returning from alarms and
during certain physical training activities," said lead author of
the study, Stefanos Kales.


Of the 1,144 firefighters who died on the job during that period,
39 percent of the deaths were attributed to coronary heart
disease, said the study which is to appear in the March 22 issue
of the New England Journal of Medicine.


In addition, although firefighters actually spend only one to
five percent of their time actually putting out fires, the duty
"accounted for 32 percent of deaths from coronary events," Kales
said.


"The relative risk of death from coronary heart disease while
putting out fires was on the order of 10 to 100 times as high as
the risk associated with non- emergency duties," he said.


Contributing factors to the rise in mortality rates could be
attributed to "the effects of strenuous exertion on firefighters
who have underlying CHD," the authors hypothesized.


They also said "many firefighters are overweight and lack
adequate physical fitness," pointing to a 2005 study that showed
"more than 70 percent of fire departments lacked fitness and
health programs."


The study looked at specific job duties of firefighters in order
to determine heart failure risk.


Previous studies have shown that around one-third of the general
population in developed countries -- and around one-third of the
firefighting profession -- dies of heart disease, and were
therefore inconclusive, the report said.

