

Inzamam-ul-Haq broke down in tears on Wednesday as he dedicated
his last match as Pakistan captain to Bob Woolmer, the team coach
who died on Sunday.


It was an emotional day for Inzamam whose side, already knocked
out of the World Cup, at least had the satisfaction of exiting
the event on a winning note.


"It's thanks to Bob Woolmer and we dedicate this win to him. He
is not in this world anymore but every Pakistani and every
cricket lover is sad about what happened to him," said Inzamam.


After he was dismissed for 37 in the match against Zimbabwe, he
sobbed as he made his way off the Sabina Park pitch.


He was congratulated by the entire Zimbabwe team who all rushed
over to shake his hand while his own team-mates formed a guard of
honour to see him back into the pavilion.


The 37-year-old Inzamam raised his bat to the sparse crowd,
removed his cap and tearfully acknowledged the warm applause
after he was caught at long-on by Sean Williams off seamer
Tawanda Mupariwa in the 28th over of the Group D match.


Inzamam had been attempting to launch another huge six having
already smashed three over the ropes.


He finishes his 378-match one-day career with 11,739 runs to his
name, 10 centuries and 83 fifties, at an average of almost 40
runs a game.


His team, led by Imran Nazir (160) also gave him the perfect send
off by piling up 349 all out before dismissing Zimbabwe for 99
and a 93-run winning margin on the Duckworth-Lewis method after a
lengthy rain suspension.


"I will miss the grounds, the dressing rooms and the games," said
Inzamam at the end of the game.


"Today is a very sad and emotional day. When you play for 16, 17
years you will be very emotional. I'm sorry that I wasn't able to
repay people's support with a better performance here."


Pakistan, who couldn't qualify for the next round after losing
both their opening games, have endured a tragedy-hit World Cup
with the death of Woolmer.


Police in Jamaica have confirmed that the death of the 58-year-
old is being treated as suspicious.


Zimbabwe batsman Stuart Matsikenyeri said that all teams at the
tournament were struggling to come to terms with the announcement
of the criminal investigation into Woolmer's death.


"It's a very sad day. Bob Woolmer had a huge influence on world
cricket. But we have something to aim for and that is what we'll
be doing. We will play as hard as we can."


Inside an eerily empty stadium, fans showed off posters dedicated
to Woolmer.


'Bob, rest in peace' said one; 'Do it for Bob' pleaded another.

