

Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt will not meet Hamas members
of the new Palestinian unity government during a trip to the
Palestinian territories this weekend, a spokesman said Wednesday.


Bildt will hold talks with Palestinian president and Fatah chief
Mahmud Abbas, as well as independent cabinet members such as
Foreign Minister Ziad Abu Amr and Finance Minister Salam Fayyad,
he said.


But ministers from the dominant Hamas group, which is regarded as
a terrorist organisation in Israel and the West, would not be
consulted, the spokesman said, adding that Bildt was also
scheduled to meet Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni at the
weekend.


Hamas swept to power a year ago but has been shunned by the
European Union and the United States for its refusal to recognise
Israel and its use of tactics such as suicide bombings.


Most direct foreign aid to the government was ended, including a
crippling Israeli boycott which drove the Palestinian Authority
into bankruptcy.


On Monday, the United States and European Union agreed to
withhold recognition of the unity government grouping Western-
backed moderates and Islamic radicals, but they did leave the
door open to future ties.


Along with the United Nations and Russia, which make up the
Middle East diplomatic Quartet, they insist that the cabinet
recognise Israel, renounce violence and respect past peace
agreements.


EU officials have agreed that the EU's position on dealing with
the government -- at least non-Hamas members in it -- is likely
to be formalised at a meeting of the bloc's foreign ministers in
Germany late next week.


Norway, which is not an EU member, meanwhile became the first
European country to normalise political and economic relations
with the Palestinian government over the weekend.


And on Monday, the Scandinavian country's deputy foreign
minister, Raymond Johansen, met with Palestinian prime minister
Ismail Haniya, of Hamas, during a visit to Gaza, and later with
Abbas, of Fatah, in Ramallah.


Israel, which has flatly refused to negotiate with the new
Palestinian unity government, cancelled a planned meeting with
Johansen on Tuesday to protest his talks with the Palestinian
leaders, an Israeli official said.


Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere has said Norway
would "deal with members of the new Palestinian government as
representatives of a broad and representative unity government,"
but stressed that it "upholds its demands on Hamas as an
organisation."

