

The dollar sank to a two-year low against the euro Wednesday
after the US Federal Reserve announced a shift in its policy
statement that appeared to open the door to a cut in interest
rates later this year.


The euro jumped to 1.3388 dollars at one point in the wake of the
Fed announcement, its highest market against the US currency
since March 17, 2005.


At 2000 GMT, the euro was swapping hands at 1.3368 dollars in New
York, up from 1.3316 dollars late Tuesday.


The dollar nonetheless firmed against the Japanese currency,
rising to 117.56 yen from 117.26 yen late Tuesday.


Some analysts said perceptions that the Fed was laying the ground
for a potential rate cut had depressed the greenback.


"With the dovish side of its words, the Fed caught a lot of
people by surprise," said Alan Bush, a currency analyst at AG
Edwards.


"Now it seems more likely that the Fed will cut its rates,
possibly at the June meeting," Bush said.


The dollar fell after the US central bank announced it was
keeping its base rate unchanged at 5.25 percent.


While had been expected, the accompanying policy statement
appeared to step back from the threat of a rate increase and may
have opened the door to a potential cut in rates in the face of
economic weakness, especially in the housing sector.


"The Fed went to neutral," said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic
Advisors. "You have to go to neutral before you can cut rates.
Now they've taken the first step that allows them to cut."


The Fed policy statement dropped a reference to "firming" or
hiking rates, substituting such language for the phrase "future
policy adjustments" depending on economic conditions.


"This is a big change from the previous statement," Naroff said
and suggests the central bank is "less confident" and has
"elevated concerns about the economy."


"The odds that the Fed will indeed end up cutting interest rates
are mounting," agreed Marc Levesque, a strategist at TD Bank
Financial Group.


"The housing market correction has not yet run its course and the
risk of a spillover to other sectors of the economy are
increasing," Levesque added.


Concerns about the US housing market and mortgage lenders who
made loans to people with poor credit histories have mounted in
recent weeks, against a backdrop of rising home foreclosures.


The federal funds rate has been unchanged since the Fed halted a
string of increases last August, but the panel has warned after
each meeting to date that it could resume rate hikes if inflation
kicks up.


Some market observers said the euro could be poised to rise even
further against the dollar.


"Now a rate cut is more priced (in) by the market. It could be 50
basis points by the end of the year," said Dustin Reid, an
analyst at ABN Amro.


Reid said the euro could strike between 1.35 and 1.36 dollars
going forward, particularly as the European Central Bank is
expected to keep raising interest rates.


The ECB last week hiked eurozone borrowing costs by a quarter-
point to a five- and-a-year high of 3.75 percent, while on
Tuesday the Bank of Japan left its benchmark interest rate on
hold at 0.50 percent.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2097 Swiss francs,
compared with 1.2118 francs a day earlier.


The British pound was priced at 1.9651 dollars from 1.9612
Tuesday.

