

Olympic champions Argentina and embattled USA headline opposite
groups in the draw announced Wednesday for the International
Basketball Federation (FIBA) Americas Championship.


Each team will be battling for one of two berths in the 2008
Beijing Olympics that will be up for grabs in the 10-team
international tournament here from August 22-September 2.


"This championship will be very demanding on every team," USA
coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "It will be as much about each team's
depth as it will be about talent."


Despite using NBA and pro players, the Americans have not won an
international event since the 2003 FIBA Americas in Puerto Rico.


They won bronze in the 2004 Olympics, did not claim a medal in
the 2005 FIBA Americas and again won bronze in the World
Championships last summer.


The United States are in Group B with Brazil, Venezuela, Canada
and the Virgin Islands.


Group A is comprised of Argentina, Panama, Mexico, Uruguay and
Puerto Rico. The Argentines begin with a day off and open with
Uruguay on August 23, beginning a potential stretch of eight
games in eight days.


The key games are the semi-finals September 1, with the winners
assured of Olympic berths.


USA Basketball restructured its hierarchy and selection process
in preparation for the 2008 Olympics, hiring long-time Phoenix
Suns executive Jerry Colangelo as managing director and Duke
University's Krzyzewski as coach.


Tryouts were held last summer for the first time in the "pro
era," which began with the original "Dream Team" in 1992.


Team USA was built around 2003 draft class stars LeBron James,
Dwyane Wade, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Bosh. The Americans won
their first seven games at last year's World Championships but
were stunned in the semi-finals by Greece, falling two victories
shy of the title and an automatic berth in the 2008 Olympics.


In the bronze medal game, the United States knocked off
Argentina, who had beaten them in the semi-finals in Athens in
2004 en route to Olympic gold.


In Group B, the USA could be pushed by Brazil, which will feature
Phoenix Suns quicksilver guard Leandro Barbosa and Cleveland
Cavaliers forward Anderson Varejao.


However, Denver Nuggets forward Nene has said he will not play
unless changes are made in his country's basketball
administration.


Canada is not expected to have two-time NBA Most Valuable Player
Steve Nash of Phoenix, who is 33 years old and last played
internationally in 2003.


Argentina's squad should boast NBA players Manu Ginobili, Andres
Nocioni, Fabricio Oberto, Carlos Delfino and Walter Herrmann. Its
strongest challenge in Group A may come from Mexico or Puerto
Rico.


While the semi-final winners qualify for the 2008 Beijing Games.
The semi-final losers and the team with the next-best record
still can qualify for the Olympics through the FIBA World Olympic
Qualifying tournament in the summer of 2008.

