

Germany's education system fails migrant and refugee children, a
UN human rights report said on Wednesday.


The country's policies of academic selection compounded existing
social and economic discrimination, said the report, issued by
the UN's Special Rapporteur on the right to education, Vernor
Munoz.


Although secondary education in Germany varies between each
federal state, it broadly divides pupils between three different
categories: the "Gymnasium", the most academically orientated
schools, are geared for higher education.


"It is clear that this early classification militates against the
less advantaged children and teenagers," said the report.


Poor children of immigrant origin were over-represented at the
two less academically oriented schools and under-represented at
the "Gymnasium", the report noted.


"The system would appear to have a negative effect, since the
disadvantaged end up being doubly disadvantaged," it said.


Germany admitted waves of foreign workers, many from Turkey, in
the 1950s to help with post-war reconstruction.


"Thousands of German children of foreign origin still need to be
better integrated in the country's educational systems and in
society as a whole,' the report said.


More provision had to be made for teaching immigrant children in
their mother tongues, before assigning them to a secondary school
on the basis of their ability in German, it recommended.


Many refugee children did not even attend school for fear of
being deported, especially if they are illegal immigrants, the
report said.


Disabled children were also at a disadvantage, with too much
emphasis placed on integration into the existing system rather
than making efforts to include them by making the necessary
changes to meet their needs, the report found.


In response, Germany's ambassador to the United Nations in
Geneva, Michael Steiner, said that the country was committed to
reducing the dependence of educational success on social
background.


The government's National Education Report, introduced in 2006,
places particular emphasis on the needs of children from migrant
backgrounds, he added in a statement.


The UN report comes nearly a year after similar findings by the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.


It said Germany was doing a worse job than nearly all
industrialised nations in educating children from immigrant
families.

