

Spain's pro-independence Basque leader was briefly arrested
Wednesday after failing to show up for trial, only to have the
charges against him later dropped.


Arnaldo Otegi was allowed to return home after the court
dismissed the case when the prosecution, which had been calling
for a jail term of 15 months, decided to retract the charges of
"glorifying terrorism".


Otegi is the spokesman for Batsuna, the banned political wing of
Basque separatist group ETA.


He is embroiled in a series of legal cases related to his
activities with Batsuna, banned in 2003 over its links with ETA.
He had been accused of paying public homage in 2001 to ETA member
Olaia Castresana, who died while handling an explosive device.


Addressing the court, the prosecutor acknowledged that it was
"very doubtful" that the accusations against Otegi amounted to an
"apology for terrorism."


The defendant had expressed "his convictions in a complacent
manner, but his discourse did not go beyond expressing an opinion
(that while) possibly contentious was not criminal," he said.


In November 2005, Otegi was handed a one-year term for calling
King Juan Carlos "chief torturer" of the Basques but avoided jail
as all sentences under two years in Spain are suspended.


He is also appealing against another 15-month sentence handed
down last year for paying tribute to another ETA member, Jose
Miguel Benalaran, which would have seen him jailed.


The supreme court will hear that appeal after municipal elections
on May 27 in which Batasuna is hoping to stand.


The government has insisted it must condemn separatist violence
before taking part in the vote. Violence has cost 819 lives since
1968 as ETA strives for independence for the northern Basque
region.


On Tuesday, Otegi said it would be "an error" to pursue
independence through violence and added he was for achieving the
goal through "democratic means" but did not condemn ETA violence.


Thursday will mark a year since ETA declared a "permanent
ceasefire," which was shattered by a truck bomb blast on December
30 which killed two men at Madrid airport.

