

World oil prices rose slightly on Wednesday as traders absorbed
news that US stockpiles of gasoline or petrol fell more heavily
than expected last week.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
gained 50 cents to 60.70 dollars per barrel during electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, added 20 cents to 59.45 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


The US Department of Energy revealed Wednesday that American
gasoline stocks sank by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million in
the week to March 16.


"Gasoline was already priced in," said Calyon analyst Mike
Wittner, in reference to the fact that oil prices have traded
higher this week on expectations of a fall in US stockpiles.


However, the reading was heavier than market expectations for a
dip of two million barrels.


Gasoline inventories are currently under pressure due to strong
demand in the run-up to the summer driving season.


US crude inventories meanwhile rose by four million barrels to
329.3 million. That was higher than analysts' consensus forecasts
for a gain of just one million barrels.


Distillate inventories, which include heating oil and diesel,
dropped by 1.7 million barrels to 118.7 million, slightly more
than predicted.


Gasoline is in focus ahead of the peak-demand season, beginning
May 31, when US drivers throng roads during their summer
vacations.


Crude futures have steadied this week after heavy falls the
previous week that came amid fresh stock market turmoil, which
was sparked by fears of a potential US economic slowdown.


Dealers said recovering world stock markets have supported
investor sentiment in the crude market.


Meanwhile, concerns over key producer Iran were also resurfacing.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was expected to plead
Tehran's case this week before the UN Security Council, which is
considering tightening sanctions on the Islamic republic over
fears that it is seeking nuclear weapons.


Should the international community respond by punishing Iran with
economic sanctions, Iran might decide to disrupt its crucial oil
exports, according to some experts.

