

Six American, Australian and European wine regions joined forces
on Wednesday in a growing US-based movement to prevent winemakers
from using misleading place labels on their products.


The movement, which now includes 13 wine regions, was originally
formed in 2005 after the California Supreme Court ruled that a US
wine labeled "Napa Ridge" was required to use Napa Valley grapes
or cease using the name on its label.


Napa Valley has since become the first wine region in North
America to be protected in the European Union.


"The wine market is getting more global and protecting one's
brand is a major issue," said Peter McCrea, head of Napa Valley
Vintners from the leading US wine-producing region of northern
California.


The wine regions of Sonoma County and Paso Robles in California;
Chianti Classico of Italy; Tokaj, Hungary; and Australia's
Victoria and Western Australia joined the coalition which aims to
educate consumers about the importance of location in winemaking.


Their representatives gathered at a Washington hotel to add their
signatures to the Joint Declaration to Protect Wine Place and
Origin, which already includes Napa Valley, Oregon, Washington
state, Walla Walla Valley, Champagne, Porto and Jerez.


"It's no longer an European thing, it has a completely different
dimension," said Jerez's Cesar Saldana.


"The location has always been seen as an European matter. But
here, we have a number of regions from the New World which are
buying into the idea that location matters."


Marco Pallanti of Chianti added: "To defend our name is to defend
the consumers' rights."


However, the group's mission is far from accomplished.


In the United States, for example, the appellation "champagne" is
not the exclusive right of products originating from the
Champagne region of France. More than half of US-produced
bubblies use the name, according to Charles Goemaere of the
Champagne wine council.


US authorities deem that the current branding system is
sufficient for differentiating local from authentic products,
hence one can find "Californian Champagne" and "American Porto"
on store shelves.


Champagne's Bruno Paillard said that on the whole, "the large
winemaking regions respect each others' names."


However, he insisted that those in the know are well aware of the
differences.


"There are a lot of sparkling wines in the world but champagne
only comes from Champagne."

