

Spain's national carrier Iberia signalled Wednesday it was ready
to look at a merger, with consolidation of the industry expected
to gather pace on prospects of an EU-US deal to open up
transatlantic air travel.


Although the Spanish carrier said no such alliance was under
discussion it added that it would consider all options.


"At the moment there is no agreement, offer or proposal," Iberia
said in a statment, which added that nevertheless it "does not
rule out the possibility of examining all (potential)
operations."


The carrier has charged its chairman Fernando Conte with making
relevant information available to potential investors.


Iberia shares have risen more than 10.0 percent this week, with
analysts speculating that an "open skies" agreement between the
United States and the European Union, ending many restrictions on
transatlantic civil aviation, would clear the way to a merger.


Helping the share price were rumours, which Iberia has denied, of
interest in a link-up from Germany's Lufthansa. According to the
rumours, the German carrier would pay 3.90 euros per share which
would value Iberia at 3.678 billion euros.


A tie-up between Lufthansa and Iberia would give birth to an
airline that would carry 100 million passengers per year,
compared to the 70 million carried annually by another European
merged giant, Air France-KLM.


Iberia's finance director Enrique Dupuy had already raised the
possibility of a tie-up with Lufthansa or Air France-KLM, in a
newspaper interview in November 2006.


The tie-up rumours were fuelled by a report at website
Hispanidad.com suggesting Caja Madrid was planning to sell its
9.9 pct stake in the Spanish flag carrier.


In Wednesday afternoon trading in Madrid, Iberia shares closed up
3.35 percent at 3.70 euros.


Under the prospective EU agreement carriers would be able to take
small stakes in rivals.


Iberia said in a statement to Spanish stock market authorities
that a US- European Union open skies accord would mark an
"important step" in the deregulation of the civil aviation
sector.


"The future for airline companies depends on a consolidation
process in which Iberia could play an important role," the
carrier added.


Carriers worldwide have been engaged in massive cost-cutting in
recent years after the sector lost some 40 billion dollars
following the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.


Iberia has an ace up its sleeve as the sector recovers given its
strong hold on flights from Europe to Latin America and has also
put in train a strategic plan designed to slash costs.


Conte said last month his company had a "very complementary
profile" matching that of such carriers as British Airways, which
has a 10.0 percent stake in Iberia and a fellow member of the
Oneworld alliance, as well as Air-France-KLM and Lufthansa.


Iberia's capital structure could change soon given that Franco-
Spanish tobacco giant Altadis, which has a 6.7 percent stake via
its logistical arm Logistra, is facing a takeover bid from
Britain's Imperial Tobacco.


Another shareholder in Iberia is Spain's BBVA bank, which is
currently engaged in a costly process of making aggressive
acquisitions in the United States.


ABN-Amro analysts said BBVA "might be interested" in selling its
7.3 percent stake in Iberia given recent share-price strength and
because the bank's stated strategy is to concentrate on its core
business.


Italy's Alitalia also went courting partners several months ago
but to date without success.

