

The Bush administration has slashed around 36 million dollars
from a proposed security package for forces loyal to president
Mahmud Abbas amid concerns the money could end up in the wrong
hands, a senior US official said Wednesday.


The move comes after Abbas agreed to join a power-sharing
government led by the radical Islamic movement Hamas, a step
which has heightened concerns about the possible use of the
security assistance, the official said.


President George W. Bush asked Congress in January to approve the
86-million- dollar package to cover training and equipment for
the Abbas forces at a time when they were locked in a sometimes
violent power struggle with Hamas, which Washington considers a
terrorist group.


But the request was blocked by lawmakers who were worried the
money could end up funding Hamas-controlled elements of a new
Palestinian unity government.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who goes to the Middle East
on Friday, told Congress Wednesday the administration would soon
send it a revised proposal for aid to security forces loyal to
Abbas and his Fatah party.


"I have reformulated the plan," she said. "It will request less
money, precisely because some of the money I would have requested
I could not fully account for."


She did not provide further details.


But a senior State Department official said later that the
revised proposal would be "on the order of 50 million" dollars
and would be submitted to Congress in coming days.


The funds cut from the package would mostly have gone to a
Palestinian "national" security force, but it was determined that
there were not sufficient controls and guarantees about how that
money would be spent, he said.


"The reduction mostly centered around funds that had been
targeted at the training and equipping of the national security
force," he said.


The remaining aid will go to the presidential guard and another
unit that reports directly to Abbas, a moderate who is in favor
of peace with Israel.


In testimony to Congress Wednesday, Rice acknowledged that the
formation over the weekend of the unity government "has provided
something of a challenge" for US policy towards the Palestinians.


She said Hamas has refused to renounce violence and recognize
Israel's right to exist -- conditions set down by the so-called
Quartet of big power mediators for recognition of the new
Palestinian government.


"Our position towards the Palestinian unity government is that it
must move to accept these foundational principles for peace," she
said.


Rice said an international aid boycott imposed on the Palestinian
government when Hamas won sole control of the authority a year
ago would remain in place as long as the new government's Hamas
leadership rejects the principles.


But she said Washington would maintain contacts with non-Hamas
cabinet ministers.


"We will not suspend our contacts with those in the Palestinian
government who have a record of fighting for peace," she said.


On the revised security aid package, Rice she it was critical to
"support forces that are loyal to those who accept the Quartet
principles, because I'm quite certain that those who do not
accept them will continue to build their security forces."


Rice is scheduled to meet separately during her upcoming trip
with Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who has ruled
out any contact with the new Palestinian government.

