

The US government unveiled Wednesday WTO proposals to scale back
fishing subsidies in a bid to rebuild threatened stocks and
protect the marine environment.


"Many WTO members want an agreement on fisheries subsidies that
is strong, simple and enforceable," US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab said after her officials presented the proposal at the
World Trade Organization in Geneva.


"The WTO faces an historic opportunity to resolve a serious
problem that distorts trade and damages the environment," she
said in a statement issued in Washington.


"Our proposal will help level the playing field for US and other
fishing communities that are disadvantaged by large subsidy
programs."


The US text, filed as part of the WTO's struggling "Doha" round
of talks, would outlaw government subsidies for companies that
capture ocean fish commercially.


It provides for periodic reviews of the agreement's
implementation, and would allow the WTO to call in fisheries
experts in case of conflict among its members.


Exemptions to the ban would be allowed for fishing programs that
do not contribute to overfishing, through practices like
decommissioning trawlers and developing marine biology.


Environmentalists say subsidies, which have been on the WTO's
agenda since the Doha round began in 2001, contribute to the
overfishing seen in 75 percent of the world's stocks and endanger
fragile marine ecosystems.


The US government said it had worked closely to promote stronger
fisheries subsidies rules with an array of developed and
developing countries including Australia, Argentina, Chile,
Ecuador, New Zealand and Peru.


"Tough fisheries subsidy disciplines are an essential complement
to strong fisheries management programs to ensure that wild fish
stocks remain sustainable for future generations," Schwab said.


But there has been stiff opposition at the WTO talks from some
members with large fishing fleets, including Portugal, South
Korea and Spain.


Global subsidies are conservatively estimated at 15 billion
dollars a year, equal to 20 percent of the world's commercial
fish catch.


The issue is seen as critical because more than one billion
people depend on fish for livelihood and in developing countries,
some 100 to 200 million people work in the fish processing
industry alone.

