

Sweden should allow gay marriages as of January 1, 2008, a
government-appointed committee recommended in a report submitted
to the justice ministry on Wednesday.


The committee suggested that Sweden change its 1987 marriage law
to make it gender neutral, eliminating the last distinction
between heterosexual marriages and homosexual unions.


Sweden allows gay couples the same rights as married couples,
including adoption rights, but the law still defines gay unions
as "partnerships", not "marriages."


The head of the committee, Hans Regner, recommended that "the
paragraph in the marriage law about what constitutes a marriage
should be expanded to also include couples of the same sex."


While heterosexuals can marry in either a civil ceremony or a
church ceremony, homosexuals have only been able to register
their partnerships in a civil ceremony.


However the Swedish Lutheran Church, which has 7.2 million
members in a country of nine million, has since January offered
same-sex couples the right to religious blessings of their
unions.


On Wednesday, the Church said it welcomed the fact that "same-sex
relationships would be given the same legal protection as
heterosexual relationships".


But it said that it preferred the term "marriage" be reserved for
heterosexual unions.


"It is important that partnership and marriage be valued equally
and be covered by common legislation. But I don't think you gain
anything by using the same term for both forms of unions,"
Archbishop Anders Wejryd said in a statement.


"I don't think that the notion of marriage is defined by a
specific law in a specific country at a specific time. Marriage
has a deeper connotation. Tradition says that it is entered into
between a man and a woman and we share that view with the rest of
the world and Christianity," he said.


Should the committee's recommendations become law, the Church
would have no choice but to comply.


The committee's recommendations will now be sent to religious
groups, political parties and legal experts for consideration,
before the government drafts a bill on the issue.

