

The UN Security Council began bargaining Wednesday over a new
Iran sanctions resolution ahead of a vote to be attended by
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad possibly later in the week.


Responding to Iran's continued refusal to halt sensitive nuclear
fuel work, the draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions,
toughening sanctions already imposed in December.


The draft was presented last week to the council's 10 non-
permanent members after being agreed by the council's five veto-
wielding members (P5) -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus Germany.


"In the light of the discussions today we will decide how we are
going to proceed," said Britain's ambassador Emyr Jones Parry,
one of the co-sponsors of the draft.


Separately, US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said he
hoped the resolution would act as a "vise" that would start to
isolate Tehran from the rest of the world and force Iran to
"think twice" about its options.


But as experts from the council's 15 members huddled Wednesday to
tackle the sanctions proposal, Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei remained defiant.


Iran "will use all its capabilities to respond to threats and to
the use of force and violence," he warned in a nationally
televised speech that his country.


"If they want to use threats, to resort to force and violence,
then without a doubt the people and the authorities will use all
their capabilities to strike the enemies," Khamenei said from the
holy city of Mashhad.


Iran's UN envoy rejected the idea, put forth by some diplomats,
of a concurrent suspension of sanctions and Tehran's uranium
enrichment as a way to defuse his country's nuclear showdown with
the Security Council.


"Suspension, in the best-case scenario is a two month band-aid.
What would happen at the end of two months?" the ambassador Javad
Zarif said, addressing a policy conference on Iran by video link
to the US capital.


As the meetings began in New York, Western sponsors signaled
their readiness to accept some minor amendments to the sanctions
draft offered by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


Envoys of all 15 were to hold closed-door consultations Wednesday
afternoon to compare notes.


"There is a a lot of support for the text in the council but we
would like if possible a consensus," French Ambassador Jean-Marc
de La Sabliere, one of the co-sponsors, told reporters. "We can
take amendments which are consistent with the text.


"My hope is to be in a position to have this text adopted by the
end of the week," de La Sabliere said.


The discussions continued as Ahmadinejad indicated he wanted to
address the council on the issue when it votes on the new
sanctions resolution.


Washington confirmed on Monday it had granted visas to
Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and bodyguards to travel to New York.


The Security Council discussions will weigh modifications offered
by some of the non-permanent members.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


While that idea was called acceptable by a Western diplomat
Tuesday, South Africa's amendments to the draft are more
controversial.


South Africa has proposed a 90-day suspension of the sanctions to
allow "space for technical discussions at the IAEA (International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring agency) and
political negotiations ... to achieve a peaceful and negotiated
solution."


South Africa also proposed deleting the weapons ban and many
financial sanctions which, if accepted, Western diplomats said,
would gut much of the draft.


The diplomats said the South African proposal for a 90-day
suspension of the UN sanctions was totally unacceptable because
it was not consistent with the draft.


"We're continuing to talk to the South Africans about their
suggestions, their concerns and to see if there are any of their
suggested changes that might make its way into a final
resolution," US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.

