

Sri Lanka were in ebullient mood after handing Bangladesh a
198-run thrashing at the Queen's Park Oval here on Wednesday, a
win that virtually guaranteed them a spot in the World Cup Super
Eights.


Sanath Jayasuriya hammered a blistering 87-ball 109 to set up Sri
Lanka's challenging 318-4 on a good pitch at the Queen's Park
Oval.


Sri Lanka's batting flourished, with Kumar Sangakkara (56) and
Chamara Silva (52) making their second successive half-centuries
and skipper Mahela Jayawardene chipping in 46.


The total proved far too big for Bangladesh, who were bowled out
for 112 chasing a rain-revised target off 311 off 46 overs to
suffer their first defeat in two matches.


"Our focus today was to concentrate on our strengths and play
some smart cricket," said Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene.


"I'm very pleased," he said. "It's very important when you play
against Bangladesh (that) you just do not lose early wickets
because obviously they only have five bowlers.


"We have wickets in hand and we can put pressure on those guys
and that's what we did today.


"With a batting line-up like that we can always exploit the
weaknesses... and get to score comfortable with."


The skipper expressed his delight with his team's batting
performance.


"It's good to have these guys getting a knock early in the World
Cup, breaking the shackles and getting into the mood.


"We're obviously really enjoying the cricket that we're playing
right now.


"We have a big game in two days and we're looking forward to it."


Jayawardene said his team would now focus totally on Friday's
game against India, a must-win for the Indians if they are to
make the second phase, and the two points on offer for the win.


"We will take it really seriously," he said. "I think we've
played some really good cricket here and we deserve to carry that
two points.


"We're 100 percent focused for that game."


Jayasuriya, who picked up the man-of-the-match award for his
tremendous knock, said he had the Indians in his sights.


"We want to play some good cricket against India," said the 37
-year-old whose 24th hundred made him the second-highest century-
maker, behind only Indian Sachin Tendulkar who holds the world
record with 41 hundreds.


Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar said the opening Sri Lankan
stand of 98 had been the killer blow.


"They just didn't allow us to attack them," Bashar said,
lamenting his own team's performance in the field that saw a
hatful of catches split and at least three potential run-out
chances squandered.


"They played fantastic cricket but we didn't bowl or field well
today. To beat India or Sri Lanka we need to field well and bowl
well. But hopefully that will come back in the next game.


"We lost too many early wickets," Bashar said. "There was nothing
there for us today."

