

An Algerian court sentenced the main defendants in Algeria's
largest ever corruption scandal to terms of up to 15 years in
prison on Wednesday as prosecutors demanded life for the exiled
bank chief Rafik Khalifa.


The 40-year-old tycoon has been in exile in London since 2003,
when hundreds of millions of dollars was discovered missing from
the Khalifa Bank. Algeria is trying to extradite him.


Life sentences have also been sought for nine other suspects
being tried in absentia in the case, including a former Algerian
government minister and the ex-governor of the Bank of Algeria.


Khalifa, the son of a former minister, was arrested by British
police on suspicion of money-laundering in February and given
bail. He was questioned on Tuesday before being bailed again
until May 22.


Earlier on Wednesday the judge sentenced the main defendants who
were present at the trial, handing down jail terms of 10 to 15
years, despite prosecution calls for terms of up to 20 years.


Youcef Akli, the top official at Khalifa Bank, Algeria's first
privately owned bank, was given 10 years in jail and fined one
million dinars (10,000 euros).


His lawyer, Khaled Bourayou, told AFP his client's sentence was
harsh.


"The value of this trial can only be realised if those
responsible at all levels of the financial scandal are brought to
justice," he added, without naming anyone.


The 10-week trial, which saw ministers, trade union leaders and
the heads of public companies testify for the first time in
Algerian history, revealed a system riddled with corruption and
incompetence at the highest levels.


The defence team blamed the lax supervision by the authorities
and in particular the Bank of Algeria for the scandal, saying
that without this, Khalifa would never have been able to build up
his empire.


In statements to the press, Khalifa himself blamed the collapse
of the group, which grew to employ 20,000 staff within five
years, on a "state matter", without giving any further
explanation.


However, most of the defendants said they were following
Khalifa's orders, portraying him as an autocratic boss who always
had his way.


Investigations into other parts of Khalifa's business empire,
which included an airline and two television channels, are
expected to come to trial at a later date.


Among those for whom the prosecution were seeking life terms were
former industry minister Abdennour Keramane, his brother
Abdelwahab Keramane ex- governor of the Bank of Algeria, and
their daughter and niece Yasmine, a former representative for
Khalifa Airways.

