

UN chief investigator Serge Brammertz said here Wednesday that
the 2005 murder of Lebanese ex-premier Rafiq Hariri was most
likely politically motivated.


"We have a clearer idea of the political context in which the
crime occurred," he told reporters after briefing the Security
Council on his latest interim report on the probe of the Hariri
slaying.


"We believe ...that the motive is most likely linked to his
political activities," the Belgian prosecutor added.


Among those factors, Brammertz cited "the inception of (UN
Security Council) Resolution 1559 (calling for the withdrawal of
Syrian troops from Lebanon) and the implications of its
implementation; the extension of the term of (Lebanese) President
(Emile) Lahoud; the dynamics between Hariri and other political
parties and leaders in Lebanon, Syria and other countries and
preparation ahead of the parliamentary elections scheduled for
May 2005."


He thus appeared to rule out the possibility, raised in previous
UN  reports, that Hariri might have been killed in connection
with his business activities.


Hariri, who was a leading opponent of Syrian domination of
Lebanon, was killed along with 22 others in a massive bomb blast
in Beirut on February 14, 2005.


Asked by a reporter whether he was suggesting Hariri was killed
because he represented a growing threat to Syria, Brammertz
replied that it would be up to a tribunal to determine who was
responsible for the murder.


Brammertz's German predecessor Detlev Mehlis had implicated in
the Hariri slaying senior officials from Syria, which for three
decades was the power broker in its smaller neighbor. Damascus
strongly denies any connection with Hariri's slaying.


Resolution 1559 was adopted in 2004, the same year a
constitutional amendment, strongly backed by Damascus, was
adopted in Lebanon to enable pro-Syrian Lahoud, who mandate had
expired, to remain president. Adoption of the amendment sparked
an uproar in Western capitals.


In the UN probe's seventh report released last Thursday,
Brammertz reported some progress in the investigation and asked
for its mandate to be extended.


"In light of the current and planned investigative activities, it
is unlikely that the commission will complete its work before its
current mandate expires in June 2007," the report said.


"The commission therefore welcomes the request for an extension
of its mandate beyond this date," it said.


Wednesday, Brammertz, whose mandate expires in June, said his
panel welcomed the Lebanese government's request for a one-year
extension of the mandate.


France's UN Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere said Security
Council members generally back the Lebanese extension request.

