

The dollar faced renewed selling pressure Wednesday as the euro
leapt to a two- year high after the US Federal Reserve appeared
to open the door to a cut in interest rates later this year.


The euro jumped to 1.3368 dollars at 2000 GMT, from 1.3316
dollars late in New York on Tuesday. At one point the single
currency rose as high as 1.3385 dollars, its highest mark against
the dollar since March 2005.


The dollar nonetheless firmed to 117.56 yen from 117.26 yen late
on Tuesday.


The Federal Reserve kept its base rate unchanged at 5.25 percent,
as expected, but the accompanying statement appeared to back away
from the threat of a rate increase and may have opened the door
to a cut in rates, some analysts said.


"The Fed went to neutral," said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic
Advisors. "You have to go to neutral before you can cut rates.
Now they've taken the first step that allows them to cut."


The Fed policy statement dropped a reference to "firming" or
hiking rates, substituting the phrase "future policy adjustments"
that would depend on economic data.


"This is a big change from the previous statement," Naroff said
and suggests the central bank is "less confident" and has
"elevated concerns about the economy."


"The odds that the Fed will indeed end up cutting interest rates
are mounting," said Marc Levesque, strategist at TD Bank
Financial Group.


"The housing market correction has not yet run its course and the
risk of a spillover to other sectors of the economy are
increasing."


The federal funds rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a
string of increases last August but the panel has warned after
each meeting to date that it could resume rate hikes if inflation
kicks up.


The European Central Bank last week hiked eurozone borrowing
costs by a quarter- point to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75
percent, while on Tuesday the Bank of Japan left its benchmark
interest rate on hold at 0.50 percent.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2097 Swiss francs
from 1.2118 Tuesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9651 dollars from 1.9612.

