

A top US lawmaker on Wednesday urged the George W. Bush
administration to rethink US financial support for Colombia's
fight against drug trafficking, which he said has yielded few
dividends.


"We have spent over four billion dollars since 1999 to stem the
flow of illegal drugs into our country and aid the Colombians in
their fight against home-grown terrorists," said Representative
Ike Skelton, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.


"But, according to the latest figures from the Justice
Department, the supply and purity of illicit narcotics on our
streets has not changed much in the last several years," the
Democratic lawmaker said during a hearing of top US military
commanders from around the globe.


Skelton said the George W. Bush administration also should be
troubled by a raging scandal linking some of Colombia's top
officials with the country's violent paramilitary movement.


"The administration of President (Alvaro) Uribe ... is currently
embroiled in a criminal investigation into a seemingly widespread
conspiracy between high- ranking government officials and leaders
of the terrorist paramilitaries," Skelton said.


"I fear that this scandal and the underlying unholy alliance, if
proven to be true, will severely undermine the ability of the
Colombians to assume greater responsibility for combating
narcotics trafficking and taking the fight to the terrorists --
both of which may place a larger strain on our American forces
during this time of war," he said.


The United States spends some 700 million dollars each year to
help Colombia combat both the drug trade and its decades-old
insurgency.


Meanwhile, a senior Republican lawmaker praised an announcement
that operations on which the United States had played a key role
led to the confiscation of nearly 20 tonnes of cocaine from a
ship off the coast of Panama.


Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said the drug bust was proof
that interdiction efforts were at least finding success in some
parts of Latin America.


The Panama sting, which confiscated drugs worth some 300 million
dollars, comes on the heels of a weekend raid on a flourishing
methamphetamine operation in Mexico City, netting some 200
million dollars in drugs.


"A half-a-billion dollars taken from the drug lords is not a bad
week's work for our law enforcement agencies and their partners
in Panama and Mexico," said Ros- Lehtinen, the top Republican on
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.


"Our engagement and increasing cooperation with our hemispheric
neighbors is crucial to stem the northern flow of narcotics from
the region," she said.


Last week, President George W. Bush, during a during a goodwill
visit to Colombia, called the turmoil-torn country an important
US "strategic partner" in the US battle against illegal drug
trafficking.

