

World oil prices rose on Wednesday as traders absorbed news that
US reserves of gasoline fell more heavily than expected last
week.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, added 36 cents to close at 59.61 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
gained 57 cents to 60.77 dollars a barrel.


The US Department of Energy said earlier that gasoline
inventories sank by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million in the
week to March 16.


"Gasoline was already priced in," said Calyon analyst Mike
Wittner, in reference to the fact that oil prices have traded
higher this week on expectations of a fall in US reserves.


However, the reading was heavier than market expectations for a
dip of two million barrels.


Gasoline inventories are coming under pressure due to strong
demand in the run- up to the summer US driving season, which
starts at the end of May.


"Right now people are a bit worried about the level of storage
for gasoline," Jason Schenker at Wachovia Securities said.


"Retail prices have never been so high at the pump for this time
of the year -- about 2.60 dollars a gallon," he said.


"There is an upside risk for oil prices as refiners want to
refine more. It's much more profitable to refine gasoline right
now."


US crude inventories rose by four million barrels to 329.3
million, the DoE also reported. That was higher than analysts'
consensus forecasts for a gain of just one million barrels.


Distillate inventories, which include heating oil and diesel,
dropped by 1.7 million barrels to 118.7 million, slightly more
than predicted.


Crude futures have steadied this week after heavy falls the
previous week that came amid fresh stock market turmoil, which
was sparked in part by fears of a potential US economic slowdown.


Dealers said a recovery on world stock markets has supported
investor sentiment in crude this week.


Meanwhile, concerns over key producer Iran have also resurfaced.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was expected to plead
Tehran's case this week before the UN Security Council, which is
considering tightening sanctions on the Islamic republic over
fears that it is seeking nuclear arms.


Should the international community respond by punishing Iran with
economic sanctions, Iran might decide to disrupt its crucial oil
exports, according to some experts.

