

A former top Iranian nuclear negotiator said on Wednesday that a
three-pronged approach to negotiations with Iran could resolve
the stand-off over the country's nuclear programme.


Hossein Mousavian, now deputy head of a strategic thinktank
attached to Iran's presidential Expediency Council, said the
approach must include bilateral talks between Iran and the United
States, as well as the existing superpower negotiations with
Tehran on the nuclear programme.


The third element would be a broader scope to talks encompassing
a regional security arrangement in the Gulf region, Mousavian
told a seminar of nuclear experts and disarmament diplomats in
Geneva.


Iran is ready to help develop a regional monitoring and
verification regime in the Persian Gulf, to complement the IAEA
UN atomic watchdog's safeguards aimed at preventing nuclear
weapons proliferation, the ex-negotiator added.


Washington has declined to hold direct talks on the nuclear
issue. The two countries have not had diplomatic ties since the
1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.


"A genuine approach to finding a resolution to Iran's nuclear
issue goes beyond (immediate) security concerns," Mousavian said,
adding: "Such an approach must have a three-pronged strategy".


Iran reiterated this month that it had no intention of suspending
uranium enrichment, the UN Security Council's key demand over its
atomic programme.


Mousavian, who was Iran's chief delegate to the IAEA, said
demands for suspension "seem to point to a policy of twisting
Iran's hand."


"The US must stop bullying and needs to demonstrate some
leadership to get itself out of this impasse," he added.


Mousavian suggested that a recognition of Iran's right to develop
nuclear energy would bring about "the maximum of commitments"
from Tehran in return.


He also repeated a suggestion for an international enrichment
consortium based in Iran to serve the Gulf region, saying it
would allay both Iranian fears about being cut off from nuclear
fuel and western concerns.


Western powers fear uranium enrichment could be diverted from
civilian energy use to make nuclear weapons. Iran insists its
nuclear programme is entirely peaceful.

