

Business leaders will press China, Russia and other bastions of
copyright "theft" to clean up their act at a global forum in
Beijing next week, a top US executive said Wednesday.


But Tom Donahue, president of the powerful US Chamber of
Commerce, also paid credit to steps being taken by China's
authorities to protect intellectual property rights (IPR) as the
country's economy matures.


And he resisted pressure from some lawmakers in the Democratic-
led Congress to get tough with China, stressing "the risk of
cutting off our nose to spite our face" through driving up prices
of goods and reducing choice for consumers.


"The biggest change in China is a recognition, some pressure on
the counterfeiters, and massive pressure they're beginning to get
from their own business leaders and from their own investors," he
told reporters.


India, Russia, Mexico, South Korea and Brazil are also sources of
concern for IPR abuses, Donahue said.


"I'm not sure that China is the worst offender. Some people think
Russia is really quite a blatant offender. I think China is
probably focusing on it more than others."


The March 26-28 forum in central Beijing on protecting IPR and
innovation is being co-hosted by the US Chamber of Commerce and
the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, an
official state agency.


It is to be attended by more than 500 business representatives
and government officials from Europe, Japan, the United States,
Singapore, India and China itself, according to the Chamber.


While hailing a new willingness by China's leaders to protect
copyright, through installing legal software on all government
computers for instance, US companies still complain that the
country is a hotbed of fraud.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
trillion-dollar economy.


Donahue said China must take "bolder and more meaningful steps on
the theft of intellectual property" along with opening up its
markets, relaxing its currency regime and cutting industrial
subsidies.


"Serious progress on all these fronts would greatly benefit China
while also helping prevent all of this conversation about
punitive trade actions in our own Congress," he said.

