

J-League champions Urawa Red Diamonds came back from two goals
down to draw with Sydney FC as Kawasaki Frontale's blushes were
spared by a late own goal in the AFC Champions League on
Wednesday.


Sydney, one of the favourites as Australian sides debut in the
competition, looked on course for a second win in two group
matches when they found themselves two-up after 23 minutes.


But Urawa pulled one back through Robson Ponte in the 30th minute
before Sydney 'keeper Clint Bolton spilled the ball in front of
Yuchiro Nagai, allowing him to poke home a second-half equaliser
at 2-2.


Urawa and Sydney are level on points at the top of Group E with
four rounds remaining ahead of Persik Kediri, who stunned bottom-
placed Shanghai Shenhua.


A second-half strike from Persik's Bertha Yuana condemned
Shanghai to a shock defeat and their second of the competition
after losing to Sydney on the opening day.


Kawasaki Frontale, runners-up to Urawa in the J-League, also came
from behind but in very different circumstances as they needed an
own goal to scrape a 1-1 draw with lowly Bangkok University.


Trailing from Suriya Domtaisong's early opener, Frontale
struggled to break down the visitors until Patiparn Phetphun put
a cross past his own 'keeper 12 minutes from time.


Frontale top Group F with the same points as Chunnam Dragons, who
also drew with Bangkok but got their campaign back on track on
with a 2-0 win against Arema Malang on Wednesday.


Kim Tae-su and Sandro Cardoso were both on target in the second
half to see off some determined resistance from the Indonesians.


In Group C, Uzbek side Neftchi maintained their 100 percent
record with a 2-1 win over Syria's Al Karama thanks to Nosirbek
Otakuziev's 77th-minute winner.


A-League outfit Adelaide United enjoyed a successful first ever
foray onto Asian soil, beating Vietnamese club Dong Tam Long An
2-0 in Group G.


Shandong Luneng top the group with maximum points after their 2-1
win over South Korea's Seongnam Chunma.


Seongnam's Cho Byung-kuk cancelled out Shandong's opener late in
the second half only for Wang Yongpo to hit the winner a minute
later.


Four goals in 28 minutes helped UAE's Al Wahda overturn a 1-0
deficit into a 4-1 victory against visitors Al Arabi of Kuwait.


Mamadou Bagayoko scored a brace, including a penalty, while Saleh
Al Menhali and Basheer Saeed scored one apiece to send the
Emiratees top of group A after Mohammad Jarragh had opened the
scoring for Al Arabi.


Qatar's Al Sadd lost their discipline as they were crushed 4-1 at
home by Al Najaf of Iraq in Group C.


Al Sadd reached the break a goal to the good, through Talal Al
Bloushi, despite having Ibrahim Al Maged and Felipe Loureiro sent
off.


But the nine men were no match for Al Najaf in the second period
and the Iraqis recorded their first ever AFC Champions League
victory with Aqeel Mohammed, Said Mohsen Ali (two) and Karrar
Jassim scoring.


Uzbekistan's Pakhtakor won 1-0 at Al Kuwait of Kuwait thanks to a
second half header from Ildar Magdeev as they moved top of Group
B.


Inaugural champions Al Ain of the UAE were held 0-0 at Syria's Al
Ittihad in Group D while the Group A match between Al Zawra'a of
Iraq and Qatar's Al Rayyan also ended goaless.


Seyed Mohamad Salehi scored the only goal of the game seven
minutes from time as Iranians Sepahan earned a 1-0 victory at
Saudi Arabia's Al Shabab.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors of South Korea have a bye to
the quarter- finals in September.

