

Hamas political chief Khaled Meshaal said on Wednesday
Palestinians had launched a diplomatic offensive aimed at
securing an independent state on territory occupied in 1967 by
Israel, which the Islamist movement does not recognise.


Meshaal, quoted by the official Saudi news agency SPA, also told
a Jeddah news conference that "Palestinian officials were ...
calling, with a single voice, for the lifting of the (aid)
embargo imposed on the Palestinian people."


The diplomatic campaign was also aimed at "establishing a
Palestinian state with 1967 borders and Jerusalem as its capital,
as well as the right of return (for refugees) and freedom for all
prisoners."


SPA said Meshaal, who lives in exile in Damascus, was speaking
after talks with Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, secretary general of the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference.


Meshaal also said he had been given assurances by Saudi leaders
he had met, including King Abdullah, of "every support and
encouragement" following the February 8 agreement in Mecca which
led to the formation of a Palestinian government of national
unity.


Palestinians hope the new cabinet will lead to a lifting of a
Western aid boycott that has devastated their already crippled
economy.


The blockade was imposed after the Islamist Hamas won an
overwhelming surprise victory over the long-dominant Fatah in
elections early last year.


Israel, its major ally the United States, and the European Union
continue to refuse to deal with Hamas unless it recognises Israel
and renounces violence. Hamas insists on the right to resist
Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands.


In Washington on Wednesday the big power Middle East mediators
called on the new Palestinian government to demonstrate a "clear
and credible" commitment to making peace with Israel as a
condition for lifting the aid embargo.


A statement issued by the top diplomats of the United States,
Russia, United Nations and European Union reaffirmed their
position withholding recognition or aid from the Palestinian
government unless Hamas formally renounces violence and
recognises Israel's right to exist.


Saudi Arabia is engaged in a flurry of diplomatic contacts ahead
of the annual Arab summit it will host on March 28-29. It urged
world powers on Monday to recognise the new Palestinian
government and lift the boycott.

