

Former Republic of Ireland captain and now Sunderland manager Roy
Keane launched a second broadside at his former team-mates on
Wednesday just days ahead of their Euro 2008 qualifier with
Wales.


Only a week ago Keane criticised how two of his Irish players at
Sunderland - veteran striker David Connolly and midfielder Liam
Miller - had not been selected for the squad by coach Steve
Staunton.


However on Wednesday it was the turn of senior members of the
side to be criticised by Keane - some of whom would have been
members of the squad that he so infamously walked out on at the
2002 World Cup finals over a disagreement with then coach Mick
McCarthy.


"Once you keep playing them on the reputation they've built up
through the media or because they do lots of interviews, then
it's wrong," said Keane, who staged a brief and contrite return
to the international squad in what turned out to be a fruitless
bid to qualify for the 2006 World Cup finals.


"There's a fine line between loyalty and stupidity."


Keane - whose behaviour at the 2002 World Cup training camp and
sulking exit was heavily criticised by fellow squad member
Staunton - claimed that it was virtually pointless trying to
inspire the senior players to perform well for thier country.


"Come Saturday against Wales the senior players - four or five of
them - have to step up to the plate. But they've been asked
before," said Keane, who has placed himself in a good spot on
form alone to replace the embattled Staunton on account of the
way he has galvanised Sunderland into a return to the
Premiership.


"That's why I don't get bogged down by saying we've got world-
class players with Ireland.


"You look at some of our lads at the bigger clubs...none of these
players at this moment in time are setting the world alight at
their respective clubs."


However, his latest outburst may blow any chance of replacing
Staunton given his fractious relationship with the Football
Association of Ireland (FAI).


"The FAI, the football, can learn a lot from the rugby lads (who
won their third Triple Crown Six Nations title in four years last
campaign), even the cricket lads (who stunned former world
champions Pakistan by beating them last weekend in the World
Cup).


"If you go into something believing you're going to get there,
then there's a good chance you'll get there.


"If you think you're not going to get there I guarantee you won't
get there. And that definitely comes from the top, the FAI."


The Republic have outside chances of reaching next year's Euro
2008 finals - being jointly-hosted by Austria and Switzerland -
as they presently lie in third place in Group D, three points
behind Germany and the Czech Republic, though both have a game in
hand.

