

A defiant White House on Wednesday faced the prospect of legal
demands that top aides testify before Congress, as a dispute over
purged prosecutors threatened to flare into constitutional
crisis.


Rejecting US President George W. Bush's offer of informal, un-
transcribed, behind-closed-door interviews, a House of
Representatives committee voted to empower its chairman to issue
subpoenas in a bid to compel under-oath answers.


Bush's Democratic foes, who now control the US Congress, hope to
force some of his senior advisers -- including political guru
Karl Rove -- to face their questions about why eight federal
prosecutors were pushed out in 2006.


Under the vote, House Judiciary Committee chairman John Conyers
has the authority to issue subpoenas for Rove, former White House
counsel Harriet Myers, and embattled Attorney General Al
Gonzales' former chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, who resigned over
the mushrooming controversy.


Democratic Representative Linda Sanchez, whose subcommittee
authorized the move, said it would help to hear from important
witnesses and obtain "complete versions of documents we have thus
far received only in redacted form."


"We are greatly concerned that this purge was intended to allow
prosecutors to be used as simply one more instrument of political
control instead of to administer justice equally to all," Sanchez
said after the vote.


Under Bush's offer, Justice Department officials will be expected
to testify under oath and White House communications with outside
agencies will be provided -- on condition that there be no
subpoenas subsequently.


Minutes before the House vote, Conyers called subpoenas a "back-
up" plan in the event the White House resists open testimony, and
stressed: "I hope we can move forward in negotiations."


But White House spokesman Tony Snow flatly ruled out any
compromises and said Bush would not budge from what he called the
"very generous and reasonable offer" of holding the private,
informal conversations.


And he signaled an ironclad determination not to share with
lawmakers any internal White House discussions of the matter,
either in document form or in the proposed informal question-and-
answer sessions.


"What we are doing is standing to the principle that internal
White House deliberations, we're not going to make it fair game,"
he said, adding that Bush was under "no compulsion" to make White
House aides available at all.


"Are you more interested in a political spectacle than getting
the truth?" he asked rhetorically, rejecting calls for at least a
transcript because such a record might be used as "a stage prop."


"At a documentary level, we're providing everything that they
conceivably could need on this, and furthermore, they're going to
have a full opportunity to question the people involved," he
said.


Snow repeatedly noted that the Justice Department had provided
about 3,000 pages of documents related to the firings, but had no
explanation for why there were no documents from a roughly three-
week span close to the time of the removals.


Snow also dismissed suggestions that the aides could be sworn in
for private questioning, because anyone talking to lawmakers
would be bound by law to tell the truth, making an oath
unnecessary.


However, attorneys familiar with the law said that, while it
forbids "knowingly lying" to congressional officials "under any
circumstances," any official doing so under oath would result in
a separate, potentially more serious, perjury charge.


Democratic Representative Rahm Emmanuel told CNN earlier that
requiring testimony under oath "is imperative given in just the
last 10 days, three or four story lines that they've provided
have been literally knocked down within 48 hours as not being
true or not totally accurate."


Asked why the prosecutors were removed, Emannuel replied: "A lot
of us believe it has to do with the fact that they were pursuing
public corruption cases, and paid a price for doing their job."

