

Annika Sorenstam heads the field for the 1.5 million-dollar
Safeway International, the Swedish superstar aiming to
consolidate her world No. 1 status despite the growing challenge
from other players.


While she is still the top-ranked women's player in the world,
Sorenstam saw her five-year reign as Player of the Year ended
last season by Mexico's Lorena Ochoa, who won six tournaments.


This year, Ochoa is targeting the top ranking.


"I think I prepared myself even better than 2006 in the
offseason," said Ochoa, who has yet to win this season. "I did
all I could do, all it takes to improve. I'm ready to go.


"It's not about Annika, about one player," she added. "The
competition is tough. I can only tell you it's going to be a big
challenge. ... I'm ready to go, but I want to be No. 1."


Sorenstam made her season debut two weeks ago at the Mastercard
Championship, firing a final-round 66 to force a playoff with
tour unknown Meghean Francella, who was making just her sixth
career start.


But the youngster steeled her nerves and won the playoff with a
four-foot birdie - after Sorenstam missed a seven-footer - on the
fourth hole for her first career win.


"It's weird, because nobody knew me before last week," Francella
said. "Now people come up to me that I've never met before and
say, 'Hey, congratulations, you really played well.' So that's
been different."


While Sorenstam may not have the aura of invincibility she once
owned, she does have 69 career titles, including three at this
tournament.


It was here that she shot the only 59 in LPGA history, in 2001.


"I have many good memories from Phoenix," she said.  "It's been a
good city so me. I'm happy to be back."


Sorenstam said her performance two weeks ago was encouraging.


"I hit the ball really well, hit a lot of greens. I thought I
putted well. I felt my swing is back. The distance is also back.
The accuracy is back. I just felt really good.


"I was excited to be back on tour, and, you know, I had a good
off-season where I mixed some rest with some work working out, a
lot of grinding with my swing. But you never know what's going to
happen once you get on the golf course."


Sorenstam said her main concern isn't the rise of challengers
like Ochoa, but on the soundness of her own game.


"I believe if I'm swinging well then things will fall into
place," she said. "There's certain things I can control and
certain things I cannot. I think we all would agree that Lorena
had a fantastic year.


"When a player is having a year like that, it is going to be
tough. From my standpoint, I want to play some good golf. It was
not a lot of fun last year when I was struggling."


Juli Inkster, who ended Sorenstam's two-year reign here last
year, said she was still the player to beat.


"Last time I looked, she was still ranked No. 1 in the world,"
Inkster said. "So I think she's always the person to beat.


"You never know who's going to win week in week out, but if I was
a betting person, and Annika was in the field, I'd probably take
her every week and probably make out pretty good at the end of
the year."

