

Jonty Rhodes hopes his legacy as one of the world's greatest
fielders can help propel South Africa not only to the World Cup
but also complete domination of the game.


Hailed as world's best fielder in his playing days in 1990s,
Rhodes is regarded as the Proteas' secret weapon at the 2007
World Cup as his country attempts to win a first title.


South Africa's credentials as the new world number one will be
severely tested on Saturday when they face two-time defending
World Cup champions Australia in their final Group A game.


"The aim is not only to win the World Cup but take South Africa
to the top of the tree with specific steps," said Rhodes, part of
the four failed World Cup campaigns since South Africa's re-
admittance to international cricket in 1992.


"The difference now with this team is that we don't just have a
few individuals but we have got players who know their roles."


South Africa were eliminated in a farcical manner in the 1992
semi-final against England in Sydney when a tough but manageable
target of 22 off 13 balls became an impossible 21 off one ball
after a short rain break.


"We had no idea about international cricket. We only had lots of
provincial cricket experience so it was a real fact finding
mission and we lost in a horrible manner," recalled Rhodes.


"In 1996, South Africa were favourites after winning the first
five matches but in our first knock-out match Brian Lara made a
brilliant century to knock us out."


In the last two tournaments, in 1999 and 2003, a single run
thwarted South Africa in tied matches, spectacularly in a semi-
final against Australia in 1999 and miserably against Sri Lanka
four years later when they needed a win to go beyond the first
round.


"Just one run made the difference. It makes you realise that
whether it's from the bat or you save it in the field, one run
can make the difference in the end. Surprisingly, we didn't play
(as a team) consistent cricket."


Rhodes asserted maintaining consistency in selection has helped
the South Africa team.


"We have had some good selections which is important. The guys at
four, five and six know what to do and having consistent
selection enabled the players in the last year to know and able
to carry out their roles."


Rhodes said coach Mickey Arthur has planned practice schedules in
such a manner that everyone gets to do fielding drills.


"What has helped Mickey is that he has structured practice in a
manner that once someone completes batting he gets fielding
practice," said Rhodes.


"I think South Africa is the best fielding team in the world,
obviously the dropped catches in Australia (last year) were
certainly highlighted, otherwise there wasn't a huge differences
between them, but surprisingly the results didn't show."

