

Germany's education system fails migrant and refugee children
through its policies of academic selection, which compound
existing social and economic discrimination, a UN human rights
report said on Wednesday.


Secondary education in Germany varies between each 'Land'
(federal state) but it broadly divides pupils between vocational
training ('Hauptschule'), intermediate level ('Realschule'), or
academic school aiming for higher education ('Gymnasium').


"It is clear that this early classification militates against the
less advantaged children and teenagers," said the report by the
UN's Special Rapporteur on the right to education, Vernor Munoz.


The report coincided with a new package from the Council of
Europe setting out 40 measures to fight racism in schools,
against a background of what it said was a rising tide of racism
among young people in Europe.


Poor children of immigrant origin are over-represented at the
'Hauptschule' level and under-represented at the 'Gymnasium', the
UN report noted.


"The system would appear to have a negative effect, since the
disadvantaged end up being doubly disadvantaged," it said.


Germany admitted waves of 'Gastarbeiter' or foreign workers, many
from Turkey, in the 1950s to help with post-war reconstruction.


"Thousands of German children of foreign origin still need to be
better integrated in the country's educational systems and in
society as a whole,' the report said.


More provision must be made for teaching immigrant children in
their mother tongues, before assigning them to a secondary school
on the basis of their ability in German, it recommended.


Many refugee children do not even attend school for fear of being
deported, especially if they are illegal immigrants, the report
said.


Disabled children are also at a disadvantage, with too much
emphasis placed on "integration" into the existing system rather
than "inclusion" and modification of structures to reflect their
needs, the report found.


In response, Germany's ambassador to the United Nations in
Geneva, Michael Steiner, said that the country was committed to
reducing the dependence of educational success on social
background.


The government's National Education Report, introduced in 2006,
places particular emphasis on the needs of children from migrant
backgrounds, he added in a statement.


The UN report comes nearly a year after similar findings by the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which said
Germany was doing a worse job than nearly all industrialised
nations in educating children from immigrant families.

