

The United States sees no sign that convalescing Cuban leader
Fidel Castro may return to power, a State Department spokesman
said Wednesday.


Asked about remarks by Cuban officials that Castro, 80, who is
recovering from intestinal surgery in July, was well on the mend,
spokesman Sean McCormack said: "I haven't seen any evidence of
that."


Fidel Castro handed power temporarily to his brother and regime
number two Raul Castro, 75, on July 31.


"There would appear to be some form of transition under way in
Cuba. We would hope that that transition is not just from one
dictator to another and that the people have the opportunity at
some point in the near future to choose those people who will
govern them, which they don't have now," McCormack added.


In Havana, a top cabinet member said Tuesday that Fidel Castro
could resume a more active role in government work "soon."


"What we are expecting is that we will have him back (at work)
with us, in a more active way, soon," Communist Party Politburo
member and Basic Industry Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters.


"Our comandante is recovering, his recovery process is making
progress," Garcia said.


"I would say that he is already in the leadership that agrees on
the main issues, and the country's most important decisions. And
he also is very involved in all these areas: oil and energy, on
which he always has been in the lead.


"We have been receiving his direction, the instructions he gives,
and the outlook is very good, very favorable," added Garcia, in
an unusual level of detail on Castro's health, which Cuba regards
as a state secret.


Speculation on Castro's health has at times appeared wild over
the past months with US officials at one stage suggesting that
Washington's longtime nemesis had just days left to live.


Much to the chagrin of hardline Cuban exiles in Miami, who had
prematurely danced on his grave, video footage of Castro
broadcast on January 30 showed him looking healthier and more
alert than in the previous pictures released by Cuban
authorities.


Bolivian President Evo Morales, a close Castro ally, said Monday
that Fidel Castro would make his first public appearance since
last year on April 28, at a meeting in Havana of leaders from the
alternative development group Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), backed by Cuba.

