

Almost 700 Belgian couples got married in a small Flemish town
late Wednesday to protest against racism in a symbolic wedding
ceremony led by a black deputy mayor.


Gays, heterosexuals, whites and blacks all gathered at the Grand
Place in Saint- Nicolas, northern Belgium to say "no to racism"
by tying the knot under the guidance of Wouter Van Bellingen, a
34-year-old official of Rwandan origin.


Van Bellingen, who speaks Flemish with an Antwerp accent, was
elected in October. But his period in office was soured in
February when three couples cancelled their wedding plans rather
than have him lead the ceremonies.


Shortly after 8:00 pm (1900 GMT), as bells rang out, he walked
out onto the stage wearing a light coloured jacket over a pink
shirt, set off with a red tie.


After asking the couples whether they accepted that he marry
them, he said: "I, Wouter Van Bellingen, deputy mayor, declare
you united in the bonds of marriage."


He then invited the newly weds, many of whom were already married
and had gathered here in their finery -- some in traditional
wedding gowns and three piece suits -- as icy rain poured down,
to kiss.


Some even wept, as though it was all for real.


"I asked him three weeks ago if wanted to marry me, and he said:
'Yes'," said a smiling Karine, just before tying the knot --
again -- with her Flemish husband Christophe.


"What happened is absurd. Flanders is much more than that," said
Christophe, who admitted being bothered by the negative image his
region had been given by the affair.


Moniek and Martine -- two women who were officially married in
nearby Antwerp a few months ago -- said the ceremony, which
attracted media from around the world, had been a "message of
hope".


Van Bellingen, from the political left, became a symbol of the
difficulties confronted by Belgians who were not born here and
have tried to live in Flanders, where the far-right Vlaams Belang
party as 20-percent support.


He has received at least 2,000 letters and emails of solidarity.


"Racism has never really been a surprise for me," he told AFP.
"But I think this is more their problem than mine."


His boss, Saint-Nicolas mayor Freddy Willockx, said:
"Fortunately, from out of a stupid racist act, we have been able
to hold an event against racism the likes of which hasn't been
seen around here."


"Where are we headed if we let this happen, that a person can't
celebrate a wedding because they're a woman, or handicapped or
black," lamented Jozef De Witt, head of Belgium's equal
opportunity centre.

