

The ATP men's tennis tour has ended its controversial flirtation
with a round- robin system at some of its tournaments, it
announced on Wednesday.


The system had come in for some heavy criticism, including world
number one Roger Federer after he won in Dubai earlier this
month, though, that was a straight knockout tournament.


The Swiss was complaining about the controversy which developed
on March 1 at the Las Vegas ATP tournament after James Blake was
wrongly given a place in the quarter-finals and ATP chief Etienne
de Villiers apologized for mistakenly intervening.


However the sudden u-turn over abandoning the round robin system
will be an embarrassment for de Villiers.


"Remaining events who had volunteered for the round-robin format
will revert to knock-out," an ATP statement said.


"The ATP had begun testing several versions of the format at
lower level events this year following initial research that
indicated it could be a measure to provide significant growth to
the game.


"The research showed it was popular among casual fans.


"However, the carefully monitored testing at the five test case
events this year raised a number of concerns and weaknesses that
were not apparent from desk research.


"Firstly, the 32 hybrid format caused confusion; second,
resolving who would progress from the round robin stage with
three-men groups was often complicated; and third, sections of
the media had difficulty in reporting round-robin and
consequently fans not at the event had difficultly in following
early results.


"Finally, and significantly, no format or rule could address the
overwhelming player concern that their destiny was not in their
own hands as a result of dead matches or withdrawals."


Federer predicted back on March 3 the round-robin system which
led to the confusion and to the reinstatement of Evgeny Korolev
for Blake in San Diego would be abandoned by the end of this
year.


"Everyone knows that I was against it in the first place," he
said. "It's very disappointing that things like this have to
happen before you realize that actually this system was not going
to work.


"And I have nothing against Etienne de Villiers because he is
trying his best.


"All I hope is that he doesn't change the integrity of the game.


"And I've always said you have to keep tennis the way it is and
not try to change and mix it up and try too many things at the
same time. And now he's burned his hand on this that's for sure.


"I doubt that it is going to happen next year - the round-robin
system."


The ATP introduced the round robin experiment partly so that
spectators should be certain of seeing big name players at least
once, thus helping to promote the sport.


But it has also attracted criticism for being hard on the lesser
players, who it was felt would not get full value for causing an
upset.

