

Sanath Jayasuriya hammered a blistering century to set up Sri
Lanka's crushing 198-run win over Bangladesh in the World Cup
here on Wednesday.


The left-handed opener scored an 87-ball 109 for his 24th hundred
as Sri Lanka posted a challenging 318-4 after being put in to bat
on a good pitch at the Queen's Park Oval.


He also became the second-highest century-maker, behind only
Indian Sachin Tendulkar who holds the world record with 41
hundreds.


Sri Lanka's total proved too big for Bagladesh, who were bowled
out for 112 chasing a rain-revised target off 311 off 46 overs to
suffer their first defeat in two matches.


Bangladesh still have a chance to qualify for the Super Eight
stage as they meet debutants Bermuda in their last Group B match,
while Sri Lanka boosted their hopes with a second successive
victory.


Mohammad Ashraful top-scored with an unbeaten 45. Skipper Habibul
Bashar (18) and Aftab Ahmed (12) were the others to reach double-
figures in a dismal Bangladeshi batting performance.


Bangladesh were rocked by Lasith Malinga, a fast bowler with
deceptive round-arm action and a gold-tinted hairdo, who grabbed
two wickets in his four incisive opening overs. Malinga
eventually finished with three wickets.


Sri Lanka's victory was set up by Jayasuriya who went on the
rampage in the morning, smashing seven sixes and as many fours in
a magnificent display of aggressive batting.


Sri Lanka's batting flourished, with Kumar Sangakkara (56) and
Chamara Silva (52) making their second successive half-centuries
and skipper Mahela Jayawardene chipping in 46.


They will now clash with India in their last match here on
Friday. India are in a must-win situation after posting just one
win in two matches, their victims being Bermuda.


Bangladesh, who had bowled and fielded superbly against India on
the way to a shock five-wicket win, failed to repeat their
performance against Sri Lanka as they dropped three catches and
missed a few run-out chances.


Jayasuriya, who had left the field on 83 due to cramp, returned
in the closing overs to complete his hundred in style, with a six
off left-arm spinner Abdur Razzak.


The 37-year-old had already put his team on course for a big
total before he had retired hurt, dominating the Bangladeshi
seamers and spinners with attractive strokes on both sides of the
wicket.


Jayawardene, Sangakkara and Silva continued the good work to
ensure Bangladesh chased a stiff target in the match which was
interrupted twice due to rain.


Bangladesh elected to field after winning the toss, hoping to
exploit early moisture on the pitch, but the move failed as
Jayasuriya went for big shots early in his innings.


Jayasuriya hit two sixes off seamer Syed Rasel to set the trend
and went on to add 98 for the opening wicket with Upul Tharanga
(26).


Tharanga survived a run-out chance early in his knock before
falling to a brilliant catch at point off left-arm spinner
Mohammad Rafique, fielder Ahmed holding the ball on the second
attempt.


But there was no respite for Bangladesh as Jayasuriya continued
to dominate the attack, hoisting Razzak for two sixes in an over
before racing to his half- century off 43 balls.

