

Northern hemisphere countries discussed Wednesday in Vienna ways
to fight the illicit trafficking by air of small arms and light
weapons that sustain civil wars, drug and diamond trafficking and
terrorism, particularly in Africa.


Experts, air transportation representatives and international
organisations attended a special meeting initiated by France and
Belgium at the start of a two-day forum of the Organization for
Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).


"The topic of illicit trafficking of small arms and light weapons
by air is new on the international security agenda, and the OSCE
aspires to play a role in this field," said forum chairman Spyros
Attas.


According to United Nations figures, some 600 million illicit
small arms and light weapons (SALW) -- including machine guns and
shoulder-launched missiles, also known as manpads -- have caused
about four million deaths in 47 conflicts since 1990, French
Ambassador Eric Lebedel told a press conference in Vienna.


"Military supplies for most of today's conflicts are typically
small arms, light weapons and related ammunition, and... in most
cases they are illegally transported by air to conflict regions
around the globe, especially to Africa," the OSCE noted in a
statement.


Using air cargo with falsified flight manifestos rather than sea
cargo is a more discreet way to carry these weapons to remote
locations, such as nearly- landlocked Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC).


"Africa is currently the main destination for flows of SALW,
which can transit from Liberia and Sierra Leone to Ivory Coast
and Eritrea" depending on the conflict, Lebedel told AFP.


But these weapons could also easily make their way to failed
states in the Caucasus or the Balkans, thus posing a threat to
many of the OSCE's 56 member states, he said.


"Most weapons in Eastern and Central Africa come from OSCE
countries through illegal means... they are also sold from old
stockpiles by corrupt officials," Belgian MP and former Defence
Minister Francois-Xavier de Donnaa pointed out.


The conference's organisers said they did not want to
"stigmatise" those countries from which SALW originate, but they
admitted these often included former Soviet states.


Transdniestr, a small breakaway region in Moldova, has often been
found to be a source of various kinds of trafficking, said one
source who refused to be named.


"The illicit trade in SALW is interconnected with the spread of
terrorism, regional conflicts, failing states and organized
crime," OSCE Secretary General Marc Perrin de Brichambaut said in
his opening remarks.


"In order to tackle this issue, we need to see a close
involvement of government officials from export and import
control departments, customs and defence, as well as the private
sector and international organizations," he added.


Indeed, the traffic of small arms by air often involves
government officials and a number of air cargo companies.


Abdoulaye Cissoko, a member of a team of experts monitoring the
UN arms embargo on DRC, pointed to the difficulty in tracking
flights carrying illicit weapons.


"These flights never go directly to their destination" but make
several landings on the way "to cover their tracks" and often
operate by night, he told the conference.


"Illicit transfers exploit weaknesses in inspection mechanisms
and cargo checks by falsifying flight documents," he said,
condemning the "lack of information exchange regarding air
movement at an international level" and weak air traffic
controls.


Cargo companies, including in Rwanda, Bulgaria, Serbia and
Kyrgystan are often involved in arms trafficking, he said.


Participants at the conference, which include the International
Air Transport Association (IATA) and the International Civil
Aviation Organization (ICAO), also discussed information
exchanges and import and export legislation in the air transport
sector.

