

Australia's explosive all-rounder Andrew Symonds is still not
certain to play in his team's vital clash against South Africa on
Saturday, according to physio Alex Kountouris.


"He (Symonds) is going alright. His batting is unrestricted, his
bowling is unrestricted. Most parts of his fielding are
unrestricted but we haven't actually cleared him to play,"
Kountouris said after team practice on Wednesday.


The 31-year-old Symonds was included in the 15-man World Cup
squad despite injuring his bicep during the tri-series in
Australia last month.


Since arriving in the Caribbean Symonds has progressed towards
full fitness in quick time, but Kountouris still believes some
work needs to be done before deciding to play him in Australia's
last Group A match on Saturday.


"There's still a couple more things that we want him to do until
we reach that point and we've still got a couple more days to do
it. We are just building up his throwing, but he's going okay.


"We still haven't met with the selectors and discussed it at this
point. So, I'd guess you'd have to ask Ricky (Ponting) about
that."


Kountouris hoped a final decision on Symonds would be reached by
Friday.


"I haven't been given a deadline but usually we decide the day
before the game. I will sit down with the selectors and see what
they want to do - they would have had a good look at him in
training the last couple of days.


"He's pretty much trained unrestricted, or with limited
restriction, so they've had a good chance to look at him
themselves."


The physio said diving would not be a problem for the all-
rounder.


"Landing on the shoulder is not what I'm really worried about,
it's not the biggest problem. I've got no problem with him diving
in the field. It just hasn't happened (at training) more by
coincidence than anything else.


"He can throw 25-30 metres. It's also specific to where he fields
as well. He'll be doing everything the team is doing. We're
training the next three days and he'll be taking part in the next
three sessions.


"Obviously, as part of his rehab he's got some extra things he
has to do, some extra throwing and things like that, so he'll
just do that on top of that."


Kountouris praised the mindframe of Symonds, who wanted to play
last week.


"Symonds has got a very positive attitude. He's not demanding
(selection), but he's confident with what he can do, which is
what you want, you want someone to be positive after coming back
from a long-term injury.


"I just want to get him right and obviously I want it to be 100
percent.


"I'm realistic, he's had surgery not that long ago, so I'm just
trying to get him to the highest possible level that I can, and
let the others make the decision on what he can and can't do, and
whether they want to play him or not."

