

A top US official on Wednesday warned Iran to "think carefully"
about its options, as the Islamic republic's nuclear showdown
raced to a new crisis point in the UN Security Council.


Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said a new bid to toughen
sanctions on Iran, which has refused to halt enriching uranium,
would act as a "vise" that would start to isolate Tehran from the
rest of the world.


"Iran needs to think carefully about its options on the nuclear
issue," Burns said at a conference on Iran grouping policymakers
and experts.


"In my judgment they have made a series of miscalculations," he
said.


"Who are Iran's friends on this nuclear issue? I can find four:
Cuba, Venezuela, Syria and Belarus," said Burns, naming four
countries that have testy relations with Washington.


"It's our advice to the Iranians to think twice about their
options."


Burns said he hoped, over time, "as the vise tightens with a
second or perhaps third Security Council resolution," Iran would
realize it has no chance to bow to demands to halt its nuclear
program.


But he made clear Washington was not threatening a military
confrontation with Iran over the issue, and would allow time for
a diplomacy to play out.


Burns spoke in Washington, as the Security Council opened a
debate on a new Iran sanctions resolution ahead of a vote
expected to be attended by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


The council's 15 members met behind closed doors to debate a
draft resolution agreed by six major powers -- Britain, China,
France, Germany, Russia and the United States -- as well as
amendments submitted by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


The draft broadens sanctions imposed on Iran by the Council in
December after Tehran spurned repeated UN demands to halt uranium
enrichment.


It bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade
sanctions and expands a list of officials and companies targeted
for financial and travel restrictions.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only.

