

Global pressure mounted on Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe on
Wednesday, with former colonial ruler Britain calling for tougher
EU sanctions over his "disgraceful" crackdown on opposition
leaders.


Criticism of the Zimbabwean regime's violent campaign against the
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has deepened in
recent days, with other African leaders joining a Western outcry
over Mugabe's tactics.


Britain has been among the most vocal critics, and Prime Minister
Tony Blair on Wednesday said he wanted Europe to take a tougher
line with the 83-year-old head of state.


"We will press the European Union to widen the political
sanctions that were introduced in 2002 and introduced very much
as a result of our prompting at the time," Blair told parliament.


Mugabe himself and his entourage are banned from travelling to
the EU under sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe in 2002 for human
rights violations.


Blair echoed Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett's view that
action was also needed from the UN Security Council and the UN
Human Rights Commission.


"We will be urging partners in both those institutions to come
out with strong statements against what is happening in Zimbabwe,
which is appalling, disgraceful and utterly tragic for the people
of Zimbabwe," he said.


Zimbabwe's ruling party however, said existing targeted sanctions
had not achieved their goals, and had hurt the people of Zimbabwe
despite the intention of the EU and US not to do so.


"The sanctions have not achieved what they set out to do. It's
not true when they say the sanctions were limited. They were of
course imposed on 126 members listed, but they (US and EU) put
pressure on the IMF and World Bank not to give grants and
investment capital to Zimbabwe," ZANU-PF spokesman Nathan
Shamuyarira told AFP.


"That has hurt the ordinary people. So it's not true that the
sanctions only hurt the leadership."


Mugabe's government has been conducting a crackdown that has
included arresting and beating opposition leaders.


On Tuesday, the US ambassador to Zimbabwe, Christopher Dell,
called the president a "desperate dictator" and suggested that
his long years in power were coming to an end.


"The fact is that the man is in a corner and he knows it," Dell
said. "What we are really looking at is a failing regime that is
increasingly wobbly."


At the same time, Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa likened
Zimbabwe to a "sinking Titanic" and said it was time to consider
changing the traditional policy of "quiet diplomacy" with Harare
adopted by the likes of Zambia and South Africa.


Zambia's former president Kenneth Kaunda, an historic ally of
Mugabe's, urged African leaders on Wednesday to appoint a
committee of eminent people to mediate in the worsening political
crisis.


Amid all the criticism, Mugabe has remained defiant, and
observers said there was little chance of him stepping down
voluntarily.


"I don't think this signals the end of the line for Mugabe,"
analyst Moeletsi Mbeki of the Johannesburg-based South African
Institute of International Affairs told AFP.


"I don't think he thinks of himself being in power because of
public support. He stays in power through the use of terror."


Zimbabwe's junior information minister Bright Matonga said the
government "will not be intimidated by its enemies," among whom
he cited Blair and US President George W. Bush.


"This is a personal vendetta they have against our president and
they think we will chicken out. We are a sovereign nation,"
Matonga told AFP.


Following Blair's call for tougher sanctions, the African Union's
representative in Brussels said there was an element of EU
hypocrisy involved in approving action against Mugabe while
ignoring abuses by other African leaders.


"I would have preferred that there were no double standards at
the European level, even for judging heads of state," AU
ambassador Mahamat Annadif told reporters.

