

Britain on Wednesday ruled out war with Iran over its nuclear
programme as Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett discussed a drive
to impose fresh UN sanctions against Tehran with Gulf Arab
allies.


"No one is preparing for military action" against Iran, Beckett
told reporters after talks with her United Arab Emirates
counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahayan, which will be
followed on Thursday by a visit to non-permanent UN Security
Council member Qatar.


"The purpose of the sanctions proposals... is to get them (Iran)
to come to negotiation. None of us wishes to impose sanctions...
We want Iran to negotiate and come to agreement with the
international community," she said.


On Wednesday the Security Council was to begin crucial bargaining
on whether to approve new UN sanctions against Iran proposed by
Britain and the four other permanent council members -- the
United States, France, China and Russia -- plus Germany.


The effort to toughen sanctions imposed in December after Iran
refused to suspend sensitive nuclear fuel work follows a US naval
buildup in the Gulf region, where two US aircraft carrier groups
are currently deployed.


Western powers suspect Iran of seeking to develop nuclear
weapons, but Tehran denies the charge, saying it is pursuing a
purely civilian programme.


The new Security Council draft bans Tehran from exporting arms,
calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


Beckett said she discussed the draft resolution with the Emirati
foreign minister, whose oil-rich country is Iran's largest
trading partner.


"Obviously, all members of the United Nations are asked to take
heed of Security Council resolutions, so there was no specificity
about my conversations," she said when asked if she had
specifically urged the UAE to downgrade trade links with Tehran.


The UAE's official WAM news agency earlier quoted Sheikh Abdullah
as saying during the talks that Iran should "accept international
demands" to suspend uranium enrichment "to avoid more tension in
the region."


Beckett said she would visit neighbouring Qatar on Thursday,
where "I'll be talking to our colleagues about Security Council
matters, because of Qatar being an important member of the
Security Council at this time."


Gas-rich Qatar has good relations with Iran.

