

Iran's UN envoy Wednesday rejected the idea of a concurrent
suspension of sanctions and Tehran's uranium enrichment as a way
to defuse his country's nuclear showdown with the Security
Council.


"It is a serious issue, it requires a serious solution, and
suspension is not a solution," said Iran's ambassador to the
United Nations Javad Zarif,  addressing a policy conference on
Iran here by video link.


The idea of a 'suspension for suspension' approach has been
mooted by some diplomats as a way of keeping the crisis from
coming to a head later this week as the Council debates
toughening sanctions on Iran.


"Let us assume, assuming the impossible is not impossible, that
Iran agrees a suspension for two months, what are the people on
the other side going to put on the table at the end of the two
months?" Zarif said.


"Suspension, in the best-case scenario is a two month band-aid.
What would happen at the end of two months?" the ambassador said,
in the unusual link-up with an event in the US capital.


Zarif did not address a more concrete proposal by South Africa,
which calls for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow
"space for technical discussions at the IAEA (International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring agency) and
political negotiations (with Tehran) ... to achieve a peaceful
and negotiated solution."


The draft UN Security Council resolution bans Iran from exporting
arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply or face "further
appropriate measures," meaning economic sanctions but no military
action, under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


But the South African amendments would gut much of the text, by
deleting the weapons ban and many financial sanctions, according
to Western diplomats.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon, a
charge denied by Tehran which insists its atomic program is
peaceful in nature.

