

A Palestinian man was killed and 17 others were wounded in Gaza
on Wednesday night when shooting broke out between rival clans of
the Hamas and Fatah parties, security officials said.


Hamas and Fatah, the two main Palestinian political groupings,
have just formed a national unity government after nearly a year
of power struggles.


The fatality occurred when a man was caught in the crossfire
between the two clans in the northern Gaza Strip.


A member of Fatah was also kidnapped in that incident, while a
university professor who is also a senior Hamas official was
abducted separately.


There was no explanation as to what touched off the fighting,
whether it was politically linked or simply a settling of scores.


In the second incident, Adham al-Sufi of Hamas, who teaches at
the Islamic University of Gaza, was bundled into a car by armed
and masked men as he came out of a mosque after evening prayers,
security sources said.


It was the first abduction of a Hamas official since Saturday's
formation of a national unity government between the Islamist
movement and the Fatah party of Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas.


The new government was formed after an agreement was reached on
February 8 in the Saudi Arabian holy city of Mecca between Abbas
and Hamas political chief Khaled Meshaal to end factional clashes
in which dozens of Palestinians were killed.


Violence has escalated in the Gaza Strip since Hamas came to
power one year ago and plunged the Palestinian territories into a
power struggle pitting the Fatah- dominated security services
against Hamas militants.


On March 13 a member of the Hamas-controlled Executive Force was
shot dead in Gaza City and four other Palestinians wounded by
unknown gunmen two days after another Hamas militant was killed
in a gunfight between rival factions.


That was the first deadly incident, apart from a feud between
Gaza clans, since the two sides signed the power-sharing
agreement in Saudi Arabia.


Meanwhile, Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian youth and
wounded another near the West Bank town of Ramallah on Wednesday,
Palestinian medics said.


Mahmud Barghuti, 16, was hit by several bullets and a second
Palestinian who was wounded was arrested, they said.


An Israeli military spokeswoman told AFP soldiers had opened fire
on an armed Palestinian.


Barghuti's death brings to 5,649 the number of people killed
since the start of the intifada in September 2000, according to a
count by AFP. The vast majority of those killed have been
Palestinians.

