

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo and his deputy, Atiku
Abubakar, acted "illegally" in the management of a petroleum fund
and recommended them for prosecution, a Senate committee ruled on
Wednesay.


It is the first time a Nigerian Senate committee has directly
accused  Obasanjo of "illegality" in the management of a
government agency.


A senate committee report which reviewed the findings of another
senate panel that investigated the management of the PTDF
(Petroleum Technology Development Fund), found Obasanjo and
Abubakar guilty of "illegal" acts and recommended their trial
before the Code of Conduct Bureau.


The government-backed bureau, set up to ensure high moral
standards among public office holders, investigates allegations
of wrongdoings by public servants, after which its tribunal can
try them for the alleged offences.


The tribunal, set up under the Code of Conduct Act, has the power
to impose punishment, which includes removal from office of any
elected or nominated official and disqualification of a convict
from holding any public office for a period not exceeding 10
years.


The Code of Conduct Act came into force in January 1999.


The senate committee accused Obasanjo of giving approval to some
projects commenced by the PTDF last year.


The senate panel slammed his approval as "illegal" and therefore
"refers President Olusegun Obasanjo to the Code of Conduct Bureau
for further action".


The panel also found Obasanjo and head of the state-run Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation, Funsho Kupolokun, "culpable" over
their "illegal approval" of maintenance of four different
accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria in the name of the
PTDF.


Abubakar, 60, who is fighting a fierce battle in court to get his
name listed for the April 21 presidential poll, was accused of
approving 20 million dollars in 2003 from the PTDF, which he
managed, "without the authority of the President."


"The (senate) committee views the approval as illegal, and
therefore recommends that that Abubakar be referred to the Code
of Conduct Bureau for further action."


The committe, however, cleared him over his approval of placement
of 125 million dollars in two private banks.


The senate committee had on Tuesday resigned following alleged
pressure from the leadership of the upper house of parliament
aimed at blocking the report presentation before the April poll.


Meanwhile, the senate began its recess on Wednesday and said it
would resume to consider the committee's report in May after the
elections.

