

The United States should try Guantanamo Bay detainees before
federal courts without recourse to the death penalty, instead of
military commissions, Amnesty International said on Thursday.


"Military commissions are a complete travesty of justice -- no
more, no less," said Kate Allen, the London-based human rights
group's United Kingdom director.


"We want to see the US government abandon these shabby show
trials and transfer Guantanamo cases to proper civilian federal
courts on the US mainland."


Her comments come as Amnesty launched a report, "Justice delayed
and justice denied?", which raises concerns about the fairness of
such trials and in particular the admissability of evidence
obtained under torture.


It also highlights the limited right of appeal and the risk of
so-called "enemy combatants" being returned to indefinite custody
even if they are acquitted.


"The pursuit of unfettered executive power has been a thread that
runs through the USA's 'war on terror'," it concludes.


"Although the executive's initial attempt to establish military
commissions without consulting Congress or allowing judicial
scrutiny was brought to a halt by the US Supreme Court in June
2006, the replacement scheme that Congress authorized in the
charged climate of the 2006 congressional elections in no way
serves to guarantee that justice will either be done or be seen
to be done.


"It is not too late. The USA should abandon trials by military
commission and turn to the federal courts.


"It should abandon any pursuit of the death penalty, and reject
any evidence that has been obtained under unlawful methods."


The report also calls for foreign governments, including its main
ally in the so-called "war on terror", Britain, to resist US
requests for co-operation in military commission tribunals.


That should mean refusing the transfer of suspects and providing
evidence. International calls should increase for Guantanamo and
other secret US detention centres elsewhere to close, it adds.


According to Amnesty's report, 10 detainees have been charged
under the Military Order on the Detention, Treatment and Trial of
Certain Non-Citizens in the War Against Terrorism, signed by
President George W. Bush in late 2001.


Charges were levelled against three of the men in February this
year, including Australian David Hicks, the so-called "Aussie
Taliban", who is expected to be the first to be arraigned on
Monday next week.


Hicks was detained in Afghanistan in December 2001 during the US-
led action against the country's hardline Islamist rulers the
Taliban for supporting Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda terror network,
which was behind the September 11 attacks.


The 31-year-old Muslim convert is facing a charge of "providing
material support for terrorism."


Amnesty said it was also concerned about the status of 14
suspects, including "9/11" mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who
were captured outside conflict zones and transferred to
Guantanamo from secret detention centres.


At a behind-closed-doors military hearing last week, Mohammed, a
Pakistani, claimed responsibility for 31 plots around the world,
including "9/11" and the 2002 beheading of US journalist Daniel
Pearl.

