

Sanath Jayasuriya smashed a quickfire century to help Sri Lanka
post a challenging 318-5 against Bangladesh in a World Cup match
here on Wednesday.


The left-handed opener, who had left the field on 83 due to
cramp, returned in the closing overs to score an 87-ball 109 for
his 24th hundred in one-day internationals.


Jayasuriya struck seven sixes and as many fours in an engrossing
display of aggressive batting, reaching his century with a six
off left-arm spinner Abdur Razzak.


The 37-year-old Jayasuriya had already put his team on course for
a big total before he had retired hurt, dominating the
Bangladeshi seamers and spinners with attractive strokes on both
sides of the wicket.


Skipper Mahela Jayawardene, wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara and
Chamara Silva continued the good work to ensure Bangladesh chased
a stiff target in their second Group-B match, which was
interrupted for 30 minutes due to rain.


Sangakkara smashed a 55-ball 56 and Silva cracked a 48-ball 52
not out for their second successive half-centuries, while
Jayawardene hit 46.


Bangladesh, who had bowled and fielded superbly against India on
the way to a shock five-wicket win, failed to repeat their
performance against Sri Lanka as they dropped three catches and
missed a few run-out chances.


They elected to field after winning the toss, hoping to exploit
early moisture on the pitch, but the move failed as Jayasuriya
went for big shots early in his innings.


Jayasuriya hit two sixes off seamer Syed Rasel to set the trend
and went on to add 98 for the opening wicket with left-handed
Upul Tharanga (26).


Tharanga survived a run-out chance early in his knock before
falling to a brilliant catch at point off left-arm spinner
Mohammad Rafique, fielder Aftab Ahmed holding the ball on the
second attempt.


But there was no respite for Bangladesh as Jayasuriya continued
to dominate the attack, hoisting Razzak for two sixes in an over
before racing to his half- century off 43 balls.


Jayawardene offered a difficult chance on 24, but his counterpart
Habibul Bashar failed to latch on to the ball in the covers. That
was the only false stroke in his innings.


The Sri Lankan captain eventually fell playing a big shot, caught
by Ahmed in the deep off left-arm spinner Saqibul Hasan. The
stage was set for the late onslaught, with 90 runs coming in the
final 10 overs.


Both the teams had won their opening matches, with Sri Lanka
thrashing debutants Bermuda by 243 runs and Bangladesh whipping
India.


India thrashed Bermuda by a record 257 runs for their only win in
two games. They now need to win their last match against Sri
Lanka here on Friday to boost hopes of qualifying for the next
round.


Bangladesh will meet Bermuda in the final group game here on
Sunday.

