

The UN Security Council on Wednesday began a debate on a new Iran
sanctions resolution ahead of a vote to be attended by Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


The council's 15 members huddled behind closed doors to pore over
a draft resolution agreed by six major powers -- Britain, China,
France, Germany, Russia and the United States -- as well as
amendments submitted by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


"We are going to hear the reactions. we've given six days to
colleagues to look at the text," Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr
Jones Parry told reporters on his way to the consultations. "I
hope that if there are suggestions to improve the text, that we
get them this afternoon."


"In the light of the discussions today we will decide how we are
going to proceed," said Jones Parry, one of the co-sponsors of
the draft which broadened sanctions imposed on Iran by the
Council in December after Tehran spurned repeated UN demands to
halt uranium enrichment.


He said said the text would be put to a vote "as soon as members
of the council feel ready to have a vote."


His Chinese counterpart Wang Guagnya said this would happen "more
likely next week."


The draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for voluntary
trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and companies
targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has indicated that he want
to address the Security Council when it votes on the draft to
defend his country's right to pursue unranium enrichment.


US officials have granted him a visa to come to New York.


Meanwhile Western sponsors of the draft signalled their readiness
to accept some minor amendments to the draft offered by South
Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


While that idea was called acceptable by a Western diplomat
Tuesday, South Africa's amendments to the draft are more
controversial.


South Africa has proposed a 90-day suspension of the sanctions to
allow "space for technical discussions at the IAEA (International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring agency) and
political negotiations ... to achieve a peaceful and negotiated
solution."


South Africa also proposed deleting the weapons ban and many
financial sanctions which, if accepted, Western diplomats said,
would gut much of the draft.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only.

