

Major power mediators called on the new Palestinian unity
government Wednesday to demonstrate a "clear and credible"
commitment to making peace with Israel as a condition for gaining
international recognition and aid.


A statement issued after two days of deliberations among the so-
called Mideast "Quartet" -- the US, Russia, UN and European Union
-- reaffirmed that the government led by the radical Islamic
group Hamas must formally renounce violence, recognize Israel and
accept past accords with the Jewish state.


But in an apparent gesture to moderates who have joined the
government under a deal between Hamas and the Western-backed
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, the Quartet said the new
leadership would not be judged solely on its "composition and
platform, but also its actions".


"The Quartet expressed its expectation that the unity government
will act responsibly, demonstrate clear and credible commitment
to the Quartet principles, and support the efforts of President
Abbas to pursue a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict," it said.


The statement, signed by the top diplomats of the four parties,
left in place an aid boycott imposed on the Palestinian
government since Hamas won sole control of the administration in
elections early last year.


The fact that it took the diplomats some 48 hours to issue their
statement indicated a lively debate over how to respond to the
power-sharing government sworn in on Saturday.


Abbas, head of the secular Fatah party, has long agreed to the
Quartet principles and is viewed as a "partner for peace" by
Israel.


But the platform of the Hamas-led government unveiled Saturday
agreed only to "respect" existing international agreements signed
by Abbas and reaffirmed the Palestinians' right to "resistance"
against Israeli occupation.


Abbas publicly appealed to the Quartet to lift its boycott of the
government on the grounds that the commitment to respect past
agreements with Israel amounts to implicit recognition of the
Jewish state.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has taken a hard line in
response, insisting on explicit acceptance by Hamas of all the
Quartet principles.


European officials argued for more flexibility, saying the
government should not be judged purely on the semantics of its
official platform but on the future actions of Hamas.


"Imagine from tomorrow there is no violence from Hamas -- this
has a value that sometimes is more important than if you say that
you won't do it," said a senior EU official involved in this
week's deliberations.


The US and EU agreed earlier this week to maintain contacts with
non-Hamas members of the new government, effectively easing the
year-old diplomatic boycott of the Palestinian Authority.


Russia has maintained relations with both sides of the
Palestinian camp and has argued in the past for a lifting of the
aid embargo.


Wednesday's statement was signed by Rice, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana, EU external relations
commissioner Benita Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Foreign Minister
Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany, the current EU president.


Rice is due to leave for a five-day tour of the Middle East on
Friday during which she will hold separate talks with Abbas and
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, whose government has ruled
out any dealings with the new Palestinian government.

