

The Federal Reserve held a key interest rate steady Wednesday and
largely brushed off fears about a downward spiral in the US
economy while backing away from a threatened rate hike.


Concluding a two-day meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee
left its key rate at 5.25 percent, and issued a reworked policy
statement that drew varied and sometimes contradictory
interpretations from analysts.


The Fed dropped a reference to "firming" or hiking rates,
substituting the phrase "future policy adjustments" that would
depend on economic data.


This fueled hopes of a rate cut sometime soon, but analysts were
divided on the significance of this shift.


The Fed announcement triggered a big rally on Wall Street, as the
Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 1.3 percent and the futures
market upped its likelihood of a rate cut by June to 50 percent.


"While inflation risks remain the dominant concern, the Fed wants
to be in a position to reduce interest rates if the growth
outlook deteriorates sharply," said Brian Bethune, economist at
Global Insight.


"Hence, a more neutral reference to 'future policy adjustments,'"
he added.


The statement said the latest indicators on the US economy were
"mixed" but did not dwell on the fears of those who argue that a
meltdown in some segments of the housing market might mean deep
trouble ahead.


"They did downgrade their assessment of the economy but it
doesn't seem like they're too worried about a slowdown," said
Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo.


This sends the message the economy remains on track and suggests
"a prolonged holding pattern" for the Fed, Anderson noted, "maybe
longer than the markets are anticipating."


The FOMC statement said policymakers believe the economy is still
"likely to continue to expand at a moderate pace" this year.


The Fed statement said inflation pressures have been "somewhat
elevated" but "seem likely to moderate over time."


However, the Fed said the "high level of resource utilization has
the potential to sustain those (inflation) pressures."


The statement noted that under these circumstances, "the
Committee's predominant policy concern remains the risk that
inflation will fail to moderate as expected."


The redraft of the Fed's policy statement to reflect the latest
economic developments made no specific mention of what some see
as an emerging crisis in the "subprime" mortgage sector, the
riskiest segment of the housing market.


It differed from a January 31 statement by removing a reference
to a possible "additional firming," or hike in rates.


Instead, the FOMC said, "future policy adjustments will depend on
the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic
growth, as implied by incoming information."


In this respect, said economist Marie-Pierre Ripert at IXIS
Corporate and Investment Bank, "the statement is much more dovish
than expected as the Fed removed its tightening bias."


The shift is "a significant change suggesting that the recent
turmoil in housing markets is clearly a cause for concern for the
Fed," Ripert added.


Other analysts said they viewed the statement differently.


Economist John Shin at Lehman Brothers said he read the statement
as "hawkish" despite the new language, because the rest of the
statement appeared to be more focused on steady growth and
inflation risks.


"They had a large opportunity to refer to the weaker data flow,
to market volatility and they didn't," Shin said. "They don't
sound deferentially worried."


The new language "does appear more balanced, but nevertheless,
the rest of the communique leading up to that is really
emphasizing that the economy looks OK," said Craig Alexander,
deputy chief economist at TD Bank Financial Group, who called the
statement "very hawkish."


"Clearly the Fed gave no signal about deep concerns about the US
economy slowing down," Alexander added.

