

New Zealand's Prime Minister Helen Clark said Wednesday that she
was prepared to support the energy aid package offered to North
Korea as part of a deal to give up its nuclear weapons ambitions.


"We're prepared to be in, and support de-nuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula," Clark told US President George W. Bush during
a joint public appearance in his Oval Office at the White House.


"I told the president today that following on the good work that
his country and others have done in the six-party talks in North
Korea, New Zealand is prepared to offer support for the energy
package as part of the initial actions agreement that came out of
the last session of the six-party talks," she said.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, agreed last month to shut down its main
nuclear reactor at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow UN inspectors
back into the country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


Bush did not mention the offer but highlighted "our mutual desire
for these problems of nations wanting to have nuclear weapons to
be solved in a peaceful way, by using the diplomatic process."


"We've had a really fruitful discussion," he said. "All in all, I
found it to be a constructive conversation, such a good
conversation I've decided to invite her for lunch."


The two leaders said they had also discussed trade, efforts to
rebuild Afghanistan, Bush energy proposals that aim to curb US
oil imports, and the Asia-Pacific Economoic Cooperation (APEC)
forum.


Clark cited US-New Zealand cooperation on scrapping nuclear
weapons "still floating around" former Soviet republics; on
dealing with the aftermath of the coup in Fiji; and on efforts to
quell unrest in East Timor.


She also urged the US Congress to extend Bush's "trade promotion
authority," which binds lawmakers to yes-or-no votes on trade
bills without being able to amend them.


The US administration's power to fast-track trade agreements
through Congress expires at the end of June.


"And if at some point in the future the US is in a position to
consider negotiating with more countries on FTA (free trade
agreements), New Zealand is there. And we think we present very,
very few problems for the US," she said.

