

Washington is considering tightening exports to countries
considered risks for transshipping controlled goods to Iran and
other "rogue states" Washington wants to isolate, a US official
said Wednesday.


US Under Secretary of Commerce Mark Foulon told a Senate panel
that the Department of Commerce proposed to create a new category
of countries in its export regulations -- "country group C" --
for states that pose a risk of reshipping controlled goods to
other countries Washington considers dangerous.


Foulon said the proposed change is an effort "to increase the
options at our disposal or combating illicit transshipment to
Iran and elsewhere," though he refused to offer details, saying
the proposal has not been finalized.


Treasury Department terrorism expert Stuart Levey stressed
Wednesday the need to intensify oversight of international
transactions with Iran, which the United States believes is
attempting to build nuclear weapons under the guise of a civilian
nuclear program.


"The (Tehran) regime disguises its hand in terrorism and weapons
proliferation through an array of deceptive techniques
specifically designed to avoid suspicion and evade detection from
the law-abiding international community," Levey told the Senate
banking committee.


"For example, Tehran uses front companies and intermediaries to
engage in ostensibly innocent transactions that are actually
related to its WMD (weapons of mass destruction) programs," he
said.


State Department Under Secretary for Political Affairs said that
efforts to put more pressure on Iran, which has defied UN
Security Council demands to halt its uranium enrichment program,
were gaining pace, saying that the US was pushing oil industry
companies to step back from investing in Iran.


"In recent weeks, we have vigorously engaged relevant companies
and countries at senior levels about potential investments in
Iran's oil and gas sector.


"In making clear our opposition to such deals, we have emphasized
the negative impact they could have on international efforts to
resolve the nuclear issue, as well as the potential implications
under our law," Burns said.


"More broadly, Iran continues to encounter great difficulties in
attracting foreign investment to its hydrocarbon sector and few
foreign companies in recent years have committed to developing
Iran's oil and gas fields."


But Democratic Senator Chris Dodd, the banking committee
chairman, criticized the US approach as less than a fully-
fashioned strategy, which he said was urgently needed "before
Iran becomes an even greater threat to regional peace and
stability."


"Economic sanctions are a critical element of US policy toward
Iran. But sanctions alone are not sufficient. They must be used
as effective leverage, undertaken as part of a coherent,
coordinated, comprehensive diplomatic and political strategy
which firmly seeks to deter Iran's nuclear ambitions and other
actions which pose a threat to regional stability."


"I do not believe that currently the administration has fully
fashioned such a strategy," he added.

