

The European Union and United States traded accusations here on
Wednesday during hearings at the World Trade Organisation into
their long-running dispute over aircraft subsidies for Airbus and
Boeing.


On the second day of action, the EU accused the US of trying to
"rewrite history" by rejecting a former deal, while Washington
said that European subsidies to Airbus had seriously undermined
Boeing's market position.


The two sides launched reciprocal complaints at the WTO over
subsidies to the two companies in October 2004.


Prior to this, both parties had been bound by a 1992 treaty
limiting subsidies to both companies.


Washington views this accord as null and void and not relevant to
the WTO complaint, but the chief EU legal advisor told a closed
panel here that this approach was "tantamount to rewriting
history."


"It (the US) cannot now attempt to challenge as prohibited
subsidies the very same elements of financing to which it
acquiesced and, indeed, actively contributed to," Pieter Jan
Kuijper said in a transcript of the closed session.


"Is it fair that the United States tears up a treaty and turns
around to act as if it had never existed?" he asked.


Washington is targeting government loans to Airbus for the launch
of new models, while Brussels was due to make its written case
later this week against assistance to Boeing from US state
governments, the US Defense Department and the space agency NASA.


A US official earlier told the WTO panel that Britain, France,
Germany and Spain paid 15 billion dollars in launch aid to
Airbus, according to a 72-page statement released here Wednesday.


However, the "resulting benefit" to the European aircraft maker
"is well over 100 billion dollars," he argued.


"Launch aid has enabled Airbus to launch a series of large
commercial aircraft models at a scale and a pace that would have
been impossible without subsidies."


The United States said government financial support had helped
Airbus become the world's number one between 2003 and 2006,
seriously undermining Boeing on the marketplace


"If launch aid is permitted to continue, the adverse effects seen
in recent years will continue as well," the US official added.


This was rejected by Kuijper, who claimed that Boeing "is in
excellent health."


Despite the legal case being mounted behind closed doors, the US
side was holding out for some kind of an accord before the panel
intervenes with rulings that might find both sides at fault.


A US source welcomed a recent statement from Airbus's new chief
executive, Louis Gallois, saying that he was ready to examine a
wide range of finance for the company's new A350 airliner, even
if he did not exclude state loans.


"Airbus is approaching differently the financing of the A350.
It's a good thing. They need to be given room to do that," the US
source said.


The A350 is aimed at competing directly with Boeing's new 787
from 2013.


The US administration's opening statement to the WTO panel on
Tuesday took a sterner approach.


"Remarkably, in the midst of this dispute, the Airbus governments
are increasing their involvement in Airbus, not reducing it," the
US official said.


"Just a few weeks ago, the French prime minister announced that
France would provide 100 million euros to support research into
new carbon fibre composite technologies for Airbus," he added.


French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin announced on March 1
that Paris would release 100 million euros (133 billion dollars)
for the composite materials industry.


Villepin said it would be "decisive for the future" of the French
aircraft industry. Airbus, dominated by French and German
interests, is based in France.

