

The UN Security Council was to begin bargaining Wednesday over a
new Iran sanctions resolution ahead of a vote to be attended by
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad possibly later in the week.


Responding to Iran's continued refusal to halt sensitive nuclear
fuel work, the draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions,
toughening sanctions already imposed in December.


The draft was presented last week to the council's 10 non-
permanent members after being agreed by the council's five veto-
wielding members (P5) -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus Germany.


But as experts from the council's 15 members huddled early
Wednesday to tackle the sanctions proposal, Iran's supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei remained defiant, warning in a nationally
televised speech that his country "will use all its capabilities
to respond to threats and to the use of force and violence."


"If they want to use threats, to resort to force and violence,
then without a doubt the people and the authorities will use all
their capabilities to strike the enemies," Khameini said from the
holy city of Mashhad.


As the meetings began in New York, Western sponsors signalled
their readiness to accept some minor amendments to the sanctions
draft offered by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


Envoys of all 15 were to hold closed-door consultations Wednesday
afternoon to compare notes.


"There is a a lot of support for the text in the council but we
would like if possible a consensus," French Ambassador Jean-Marc
de La Sabliere, one of the co-sponsors, told reporters. "We can
take amendments which are consistent with the text."


He said the co-sponsors would carefully listen to reactions from
other member states and would then "take stock today or tomorrow
and see how they will proceed."


"My hope is to be in a position to have this text adopted by the
end of the week," de La Sabliere said.


The discussions continued as Ahmadinejad indicated he wanted to
address the council on the issue when it votes on the new
sanctions resolution.


Washington confirmed on Monday it had granted visas to
Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and bodyguards to travel to New York.


US acting ambassador to the UN Alejandro Wolff said Tuesday that,
although he was not aware of the Iranians' travel plans, "I
assume they will be in time for adoption of the resolution."


The Security Council discussions Wednesday will weigh
modifications offered by some of the non-permanent members.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


While that idea was called acceptable by a Western diplomat
Tuesday, South Africa's amendments to the draft are more
controversial.


South Africa has proposed a 90-day suspension of the sanctions to
allow "space for technical discussions at the IAEA (International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring agency) and
political negotiations ... to achieve a peaceful and negotiated
solution."


South Africa also proposed deleting the weapons ban and many
financial sanctions which, if accepted, Western diplomats said,
would gut much of the draft.


The diplomats said the South African proposal for a 90-day
suspension of the UN sanctions was totally unacceptable because
it was not consistent with the draft.


"We're continuing to talk to the South Africans about their
suggestions, their concerns and to see if there are any of their
suggested changes that might make its way into a final
resolution," US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
Wednesday.


"We want to preserve the integrity of the core precepts of the
resolution that have been agreed to by the P5+1. But of course if
there are some changes that others feel are important then of
course we'll consider those," he added.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful use.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only.

