

The United States and South Korea will head into a last round of
talks next week in a race against time to forge an ambitious
free-trade agreement (FTA), the chief US negotiator said
Wednesday.


Wendy Cutler, after wrapping up three days of informal talks at a
Washington hotel, said the two sides were "closing in" on the
most sensitive areas covered by the prospective FTA, including
agriculture, automobiles and pharmaceuticals.


"It will come as no surprise that we have not wrapped up the
negotiations this week," Cutler, the assistant US trade
representative (USTR), told reporters.


But she stressed that next week in Seoul, the two nations shared
the "aim and the determination" to conclude what would be the
biggest FTA since the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement.


The US delegation for the talks with South Korean Trade Minister
Kim Hyun-Jong will be elevated to include Deputy USTR Karan
Bhatia.


The two sides, allied in their decades-long standoff with
Stalinist North Korea, have been locked in talks for 10 months
and have scant time left to wrap up a deal under the US political
calendar.


The Republican administration's authority to fast-track trade
agreements through Congress expires at the end of June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review.


Kim Jong-Hoon, the chief South Korean negotiator, said there
remained a "mountain" to overcome, according to the Yonhap news
agency.


But he was quoted as stressing to South Korean reporters here:
"There have been no mountains in South Korea that I have not been
able to climb over."


The two nations have closed three chapters of the prospective
trade pact -- on customs, competition and government procurement.


Seven other chapters -- general services, financial services,
market access, transparency, telecommunications, e-commerce and
standards -- remain on the table.


The South Korean government has always faced bitter opposition to
the US trade talks, from rice farmers, trade unionists and
students among others. But in Washington, criticism is also now
mounting.


There is particular anger over trade in autos, with US
manufacturers like General Motors and Ford struggling against
Asian competition from the likes of South Korea's Hyundai.


The United States is saddled with an 11-billion-dollar deficit in
auto trade with South Korea, which is accused of shutting out US
vehicles through an array of tariff and other barriers.


Political anger was laid bare when Bhatia testified Tuesday at a
hearing of the House of Representatives ways and means trade
subcommittee, which examines issues of globalization and
commerce.


"We need a shift in negotiating strategy -- to an active,
results-oriented approach that demands and measures commitments
by the Korean government," said Sander Levin, the subcommittee's
Democratic chairman.


Bhatia warned that a failure to strike an FTA with South Korea
could damage US relations with East Asia as a whole.


To date, the United States has concluded two smaller FTAs in the
region, with Singapore and Australia. Talks with Malaysia
meanwhile have languished.


South Korea, America's seventh-biggest trading partner, would be
a much bigger prize, and Cutler reaffirmed Wednesday the US
team's determination to get a satisfactory deal.


"Let me assure you that we are pressing very hard in these
negotiations to achieve a deal that will be comprehensive, high
quality, and will receive the support of our stakeholders in
Congress."

