

The European Commission sought a court order Wednesday to halt
the construction of a road in an ecologically fragile part of
northeast Poland, upping the ante in a standoff with Warsaw.


"It is with regret that the Commission is bringing this case to
the European Court of Justice," EU Environment Commissioner
Stavros Dimas said.


"But this course of action is necessary if these precious natural
sites of European significance are to be protected from
irreparable damage."


The European Union's executive arm said that although it
supported improvements to the country's road network, it could
not accept the "unjustified" damage that would be caused by the
construction of bypasses.


The Commission launched legal action in December against Warsaw,
arguing that a planned stretch of highway -- to ease traffic on
the nearby town of Augustow -- would plough through one of the
region's best-preserved forests.


But in a growing showdown with Brussels, Warsaw ignored warnings
not to build the bypasses and told contractors to go ahead with
the work last month.


The project will see a 17.1-kilometre (10.6-mile) bypass built
near Augustow cutting through the Rospuda river valley, which the
Commission said would threaten "a unique wetland system
considered to be of exceptional European value by scientists."


It also foresees the construction of a second 5.2-kilometre
bypass near the northeastern town of Wasilkow.


With trees already being cut down to make way for the bypass, the
Commission said that Warsaw had not properly assessed the likely
damage to a protected area.


Polish authorities stood defiant in the face of the Commission's
latest action with Transport Minister Jerzy Polaczek telling
journalists in Warsaw that "Poland has solid arguments" to defend
the project before the EU court.


Environment Minister Jan Szyszko reiterated that Poland had
"filled all the conditions required by Polish law and European
directives" and said that he would invite his EU counterparts to
visit the site on April 5.


However, environmental pressure groups rallied behind the
Commission, cheering its tough line against Poland.


"A key natural habitat with protected species could be lost
because of a lack of will to assess alternative solutions," said
Marta Majka Winiewska with the Polish arm of the World Wildlife
Fund in a joint statement with other green groups.


"Instead of being proud about bringing such a natural treasure to
Europe, Poland is putting it at risk," she added.


The planned stretches of highway are part of the so-called Via
Baltica corridor, which is meant to smooth the way for increasing
road trade between eastern and western Europe.


Poland, a political heavyweight among the 10 countries that
joined the EU in 2004, has taken an increasingly defiant stand on
a number of European issues, ranging from protecting the
environment to breaking a public deficit limit to enforcing
telecommunications regulations.


lt/loc/ awb

