

A public inquiry into allegations that Canada was complicit in
the wrongful jailing and torture of three Canadians in Syria and
Egypt kicked off here Wednesday.


The probe, led by retired Supreme Court judge Frank Iacobucci,
will try to determine if the trio was mistreated abroad and
whether Canadian authorities shared intelligence with their
counterparts in these countries, as alleged.


Canadians Ahmad El Maati, Abdullah Almalki and Muayyed Nureddin,
born in Kuwait, Syria and Iraq respectively, were arrested by
Syrian Military Intelligence during trips abroad from 2001 to
2004, suspected of Al-Qaeda links.


El Maati said he was later transferred to Egyptian custody.


Each claimed upon return to Canada that he had been tortured, and
that Canadian security officials had supplied their captors with
intelligence and questions to pose the detainees.


"The Canadian government degraded and dehumanized me," Almalki
said in October.


"Someone has to answer for the over 22 months I spent in a jail
for no reason. Someone has to be held accountable for
continuously feeding unreliable information that kept me in an
underground solitary confinement cell for 482 consecutive days, a
cell that felt, smelled and looked like a grave," he said.


In the first week, the inquest is expected to hear from
government attorneys, and lawyers for the three men.


Due to national security concerns, the inquiry will "be conducted
generally in private and exceptionally in public," Iacobucci said
in his opening remarks.


The probe follows an apology by Prime Minister Stephen Harper in
December and a 12.5-million Canadian dollar (10.8 million US)
settlement for errors by federal police that led to the wrongful
detention and torture of another Canadian, Maher Arar, in Syria
in 2002.


Arar was stopped in New York, on his way to Canada from a trip to
Tunisia in September 2002, and was deported to Syria where he was
jailed and tortured for more than a year.


A judicial report in September 2006 found that US authorities had
likely relied on faulty intelligence provided by the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) to arrest and deport the 36-year-
old software engineer.


Arar was also cleared in the report.


Canada's top cop, RCMP Commissioner Guiliano Zaccardelli,
resigned over the case in December.


An Arar lawsuit against the US government is pending.


El Maati, who holds dual Canadian-Egyptian citizenship, said he
was on his way to celebrate his wedding in Syria when he was
stopped at the Damascus airport in November 2001.


He was interrogated about information he said could only have
originated from Canada. In January 2002, he was transferred to
Egyptian custody.


Nureddin was going to visit family in northern Iraq when he was
stopped at the Iraqi-Syrian border in December 2003, he said.


Almalki was detained in Damascus in May 2002 while traveling to
visit family in Syria. He claimed he was forced to sign a false
confession that he planned to bomb the Canadian parliament.


He said in October he made the statement hoping to be immediately
returned to Canada where he expected to clear his name.


All three men were released without charges between January and
March 2004.


Iacobucci is expected to present his findings by January 2008.

