

A tearful exit by Inzamam-ul-Haq was overshadowed by Imran
Nazir's second career limited overs century in Pakistan's final
World Cup match against Zimbabwe here on Wednesday.


Inzamam delighted the small Sabina Park crowd with a brief cameo
of 37 off 35 balls, but Nazir plundered 14 fours and eight sixes
in 160 from 121 balls, as Pakistan, sent in to bat, were
dismissed for 349 in 49.5 overs.


Last Sunday, Inzamam announced that this match would be his last
one-dayer for Pakistan, and he would also give up the captaincy
after a tournament overshadowed by the death of coach Bob
Woolmer.


When he arrived, Nazir was well into stride, but he joined in the
fun with two fours and three sixes before he skied an on-drive to
extra cover off Tawanda Mupariwa in the 28th over.


As Inzamam retreated to the dressing room, the celebrating
Zimbabwe players all rushed to shake his hand and offer their
congratulations for a stellar career in which he played 378 one-
dayers and scored 11,739 runs at an average of 39.52.


Meanwhile, his Pakistan teammates had descended the steps from
the dressing room to form a guard of honour, and Inzamam burst
into tears at the gesture.


By the time Inzamam departed, Pakistan were well in control, and
Nazir never took his foot up off the throat of the Zimbabwe
attack.


After Kamran Akmal was caught behind for 15 off Elton Chigumbura
in the seventh over, and Shoaib Malik was caught at backward
point for 21 in the 18th over, Nazir drove skipper Prosper Utseya
to long-off for a single to reach his 50.


After he and Inzamam put on 70 for the third wicket, Nazir was
dropped on 81 at deep mid wicket, when Friday Kasteni put down a
skier off Gary Brent, who had Mohammad Yousuf caught and bowled
for three off the very next delivery to leave Pakistan 170 for
four in the 31st over.


Nazir was eyeing his landmark and reached his milestone, when he
played forward defensively to Christopher Mpofu, and scampered a
single to the short cover fielder.


Younis Khan had come to the wicket and was playing fluently
before he too, was dropped on 26 by keeper Brendon Taylor off
Sean Williams essaying a reverse sweep.


Younis went on to add 81 for the fifth wicket with Nazir before
he was run out for 28 to leave Pakistan on 251 for five, with 10
overs remaining.


Nazir jammed his foot down hard on the accelerator and continued
to maraud the the Zimbabwe attack.


After he was dropped on 135 at long-on by Chigumbura off
Mupariwa, he flicked the same bowler through square leg for a
single to reach his 150.


Pakistan however, continued to lose wickets, but they gathered 98
runs for the loss of their last five wickets from the last 10
overs, with Nazir dismissed for the highest individual score by a
Pakistani in World Cup cricket, and Rao Iftikhar collected a
career-best 32 off 16 balls.


Zimbabwe made one change to their line-up, bringing back Gary
Brent for Anthony Ireland, and Pakistan had two changes, with
Shahid Afridi and Danish Kaneria coming into the side for
Mohammad Hafeez and Azhar Mahmood.


Zimbabwe tied their opening match with Ireland last Thursday
before losing to West Indies by six wickets on Monday, and they
require a victory to have a chance of qualification for the Super
Eight stage.


Pakistan lost the World Cup opener against West Indies by 54 runs
last Tuesday, and then to Ireland last Saturday by three wickets
to make an early exit from the competition.

