

Hardcore computer game fans queued on Wednesday to be the first
in Britain to grab Sony's Playstation 3 when the next-generation
console gets its long-awaited European launch.


Virgin Megastore's flagship outlet on London's Oxford Street
opened its basement to games-mad fans at midday (1200 GMT) -- a
full 36 hours before the consoles go on sale at midnight
Thursday.


But determined enthusiast Ritatsu Thomas, 17, sat outside the
store in the chilly darkness from 5:00 am -- securing first place
in the queue at the official British launch.


"It will mean a lot to be the first person in Britain to get
one," he told AFP.


The graphic design student from southwest London brought a
sleeping bag, a flask, vitamin pills, a teach yourself Japanese
book to pass the time, and, oddly enough, scissors and some
masking tape just in case he might need some.


"Think ahead," he said.


"I'm excited but I'm tired as well. My emotions are kind of
screwed up through sleep deprivation. I was going to come here
Tuesday.


"I've done much worse things than this before, like playing games
for 36 hours straight."


He said he could understand if anyone thought he was bonkers.


"But in the end, I think it's all worth it. This is the official
launch. No-one will remember buying it at 7:00 am. I'll see the
real event," he said.


Heavy security was to be laid on throughout the wait, after the
US launch saw shootings and fist fights. The police were keeping
in contact.


Virgin Megastore provided free food, drink and entertainment for
those queueing up, barricaded off in the basement and sat on
wooden boxes. The retailer was to lay on free taxis on Friday to
whisk the hardcore home -- to avoid potential muggers.


Thomas said: "I'll probably stare at it for 15 minutes, thinking
how much of a great thing it is, then I'll open it -- carefully
-- take out the console, put it in its rightful, pre-reserved
place, then play some 'Resistance'. And then go to bed."


Shanie Chatfield, 19, was second in line, wearing a PlayStation
Portable Japanese launch jacket bought on the Internet.


"Two's always been my lucky number. That's good enough for me,"
the information and communications technology student from
Guildford, southwest of London, told AFP.


She said critics of those queuing were just jealous.


"He's madder: he came earlier," she said, pointing at Thomas.


A rival to Microsoft's Xbox 360 and 249 euros for Nintendo's Wii,
the PS3 was launched in Japan and the United States in November,
but production problems delayed the European roll-out.


The 60-gigabyte version on sale in Europe costs 425 pounds (599
euros, 830 dollars).


PS3 comes with a Cell chip processor and a Blu-ray DVD disc
player, allowing for more true-to-life graphics and for playing
High Definition movies. It also boasts a high-speed Internet
connection.

