

New York on Wednesday became the latest US state to bring forward
its 2008 primary presidential elections, joining nine other
states in holding a February 5 vote on "Super Duper Tuesday" next
year.


The move is aimed at giving the state more influence in choosing
which candidates will run in the election -- a process that has
traditionally been dominated by the northeastern state of New
Hampshire and the Midwest state of Iowa.


The change, which was approved by the State Senate and Assembly
and was due to be signed into law by Governor Elliot Spitzer in
the coming days, means New York will now hold its primary one
month earlier than usual.


California last week decided to bring forward its primary to the
same date, in what was seen as a move heralding a possible mass
shift by other states that could fundamentally alter the dynamics
of the race for the White House.


"There's an advantage to going early because the presidential
campaign, particularly the nominations, are influenced by the
early voting," explained Steve Brams, professor of politics at
New York University.


"That why New Hampshire and Iowa, the first states in the nation
to have a caucus and a primary, have prized their role for many
years," he told AFP.


"Statistically it has been shown that the results in these early
caucus and primary states will influence later states, so there's
kind of a momentum on the part of states to be early and to exert
that kind of influence."


According to the National Association of Secretaries of State, 14
other states are also mulling February 5 for their primaries or
caucuses, creating what Brams described as a "crowding effect."


"The paradox here is that if half the states go right after New
Hampshire and Iowa, then none of them will be influential by
itself," he said.


"It becomes in effect one election and not the extended primary
process we've seen in the past," he explained.


He added that the shift would favor well-known candidates and
pose a bigger hurdle to those from smaller states.


The caucuses and primary elections are due to kick off January 14
in Iowa, more than nine months before the presidential election
itself on November 4.

