

Online gambling presents a special peril for people with
Parkinson's, a disease that boosts compulsive risk-taking,
doctors warn in this week's British Medical Journal (BMJ).


Internet casinos, poker and other online games can result in
secret debts that can destroy a family, they say.


Parkinson's, a disease of the nerve system, is commonly known for
problems with motor function, causing trembling, shaking and
jerkiness.


But, the BMJ editorial points out, Parkinson's patients also have
problems with pathological gambling and other addictive
behaviours. The phenomenon is worsened by dopamine agonists --
the drugs that many take to ease their symptoms.


A study published last year in the journal Neurology found that
the prevalence of addicted gambling among Parkinson's patients
was 3.4 percent, which more than doubled to 7.2 percent among
those who take dopamine agonists.


People who develop Parkinson's at a younger age are at even
higher risk.


By comparison, in the general British population, compulsive
gambling afflicts around one percent of people.


"We have noted that our patients are often secretive about their
gambling and may end up thousands of pounds (dollars, euros) in
debt before the problem is realised," say authors Sui Wong and
Malcolm Steiger, who are neurologists at the Walter Centre in
Liverpool, northwestern England.


"Many internet gambling companies actively lure gamblers with
pop-ups to place free bets. This marketing technique is pervasive
and can make it hard for vulnerable people to wean themselves off
gambling."


They say doctors can help to identify the problem at an early
stage by asking patients and carers about any change in behaviour
or development of new compulsion.


For patients that become hooked on online gambling, doctors may
consider such strategies as reducing or stopping dopamine
agonists, while families can install firewalls to block Internet
pop-ups and gambling sites or control the patient's finances if
need be, they add.

