

Pakistan's new chief cricket selector has delivered a snub to the
squad's all- rounders, saying his priority will be to pick
specialists to improve performance, reports said Thursday.


Former Test off-spinner Salahuddin Ahmad said finding a good
opening batting pair and raising players' fitness levels were
also important.


"My first priority would be to pick specialists instead of all-
rounders. A specialist has more chances to deliver and improve
his game," Salahuddin told The News, a leading English-language
daily.


His comments will alarm all-rounders such as Shahid Afridi, whose
big-hitting style has not always been matched by recent
performances, Abdul Razzaq and Yasir Arafat.


They could equally apply to batsman and occasional off-spinner
Shoaib Malik, who is tipped to be named later Thursday as the new
Pakistan captain after the nation's World Cup debacle.


"I am not against all-rounders but I do not like "makeshift"
arrangements," Salahuddin, appointed by the Pakistan Cricket
Board (PCB) on Wednesday, told Dawn, Pakistan's oldest English
daily.


"A cricketer must and should be selected for his specialisation
in one department and his additional qualities in other
departments should be treated as secondary."


Salahuddin said he also wanted to solve a long-term problem for
Pakistan by finally finding a decent duo at the top of the
batting order.


"I always think there is a need to develop a trustworthy opening
pair. A good batting line-up always has that quality," he told
the News.


"Pakistan have always struggled in this front."


He also took an apparent swipe at earlier selection policies
which saw Pakistan keep faith with injured opening bowlers Shoaib
Akhtar and Mohammad Sami before ruling them out of the World Cup
at the last minute.


"Fitness will be the key to my selection priorities.... There
would be no compromise on the fitness of a player no matter how
experienced or valuable he is otherwise," he added.


Salahuddin and his new selection committee colleagues Shafqat
Rana and Saleem Jafer are due to hold a press conference later
Thursday with PCB Chairman Nasim Ashraf.

