

Veteran directors Quentin Tarantino, Emir Kusturica, Gus Van Sant
and Wong Kar Wai will be vying against a large group of up-and-
coming young filmmakers for the top prize at this year's Cannes
film festival, organisers revealed Thursday.


The mix of old and new in the list of the 21 films competing for
the Palme d'Or trophy showed how the cinema event -- the biggest
in the world -- was striving to remain fresh even as it
celebrated its 60th year.


The traditional reliance on red-carpet glamour will also be
stepped up, with Brad Pitt, George Clooney, Julia Roberts,
Catherine Zeta-Jones, Matt Damon, Al Pacino and Andy Garcia all
expected for the premiere of "Ocean's Thirteen", to be screened
out of competition.


Michael Moore, who won the Palme in 2004 for his biting
documentary "Fahrenheit 9/11", will be back with another out-of-
competition film sure to needle President George W. Bush, about
the US health system, while British director Michael Winterbottom
will be screening his film about the murder of US journalist
Daniel Pearl.


The festival programme presented at a Paris media conference
displayed a balance between experienced old hands and fresh faces
that will characterise the May 16-27 event on the French Riviera.


Wong, the Hong Kong director who was jury president last year,
will be given the honour of opening the festival with "My
Blueberry Nights", an English-language road-trip movie starring
singer Norah Jones.


The Palme d'Or competition will then continue with Tarantino --
who already won the Palme in 1994 for "Pulp Fiction", and who
also headed the Cannes jury three years ago -- presenting his
"Death Proof".


The movie, packed with the US director's trademark banter and
bloodshed, is being being released as half of a two-part gore
collaboration called "Grindhouse".


Kusturica, a two-time Palme winner, will be returning with
"Promise Me This", an off-the-wall story about an old Serbian man
praying his son finds a wife.


Van Sant, who won the Palme d'Or in 2003 for "Elephant", his film
inspired by the Columbine High School massacre, will show
"Paranoid Park", another US urban expose that starts when a
teenaged skateboarder accidentally kills a security guard.


They will be joined by a bunch of new faces, among them an
Iranian, Marjane Satrapi, who will be bringing her popular comic
books about life in Tehran to the big screen, and Fatih Akin, a
German of Turkish heritage.


There will also be a young South Korean director, Lee Chang-dong,
and a Romanian one, Cristian Mungui.


As per tradition, three slots went to French films, among them a
musical titled "Les Chansons d'Amour" by Christophe Honore.


This year's Palme d'Or jury is headed by British director Stephen
Frears, who made the award-winning film "The Queen" about Queen
Elizabeth II struggling in the aftermath of the death of Princess
Diana.


He will be joined by eight other personalities from the cinema
and literary worlds, including actresses Toni Colette from
Australia and Maggie Cheung from China, and Nobel Prize-winning
author Orhan Pamuk from Turkey.


Out of competition, Michael Moore will be screening "Sicko", his
expose of America's inequitous health care system, while
Winterbottom's "A Mighty Heart" is certain to draw attention with
its story about Daniel Pearl, the Wall Street Journal reporter
beheaded in Pakistan in 2002. The movie stars Angelina Jolie as
Pearl's distraught wife.


Sidebar competitions and screenings in the sprawling market
section of Cannes mean hundreds of other films will also be shown
during the festival's 10-day run, making it an unparalleled
celluloid extravaganza.


Nearly 4,000 journalists from around the world cover the event,
which is attended by around 10,000 movie industry professionals
and scores of show business stars.

