

Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak Thursday brushed
aside fears the high-profile murder of a Mongolian model would
undermine the ruling coalition's chances in a key by-election.


The killing of Altantuya Shaariibuu, 28, rocked Malaysia because
of the gruesome nature of her death and the alleged involvement
of prominent political analyst Abdul Razak Baginda -- whose
connections extend to Najib.


The deputy premier has refused to comment on the murder since her
remains were discovered in November last year.


But in some of his first remarks on the case, Najib Thursday said
he was not worried opposition parties would exploit the
connections in campaigning for a key by-election next week in
western Selangor state.


"I think it is alright, we are not afraid of that," he told
reporters.


Mongolian model Altantuya Shaariibuu, 28, was murdered in October
last year and her body blown up.


Two officers from a elite police unit have been charged with the
killing, while Abdul Razak has been charged with abetting in the
crime.


Anwar Ibrahim, former deputy premier and advisor to the
opposition People's Justice Party, has called for a probe into
the murder to determine whether Abdul Razak used government
connections to organise the crime.


"I have got the option to sue but what's important is to let the
law take its due course," Najib said, when asked if he would sue
Anwar.


Asked if he was denying his involvement in the crime, Najib said
he would not answer to avoid prejudicing the case due to be tried
on June 4.


"Whatever I said yesterday was within the bounds of the law. I
don't want to go beyond that," he said.


Najib on Wednesday had said he was ready to face any allegations
over his involvement in the crime and accused opposition
politicians of trying to smear him.


"They are telling lies," Najib was quoted as saying in the New
Straits Times in comments confirmed to AFP by an aide.


Abdul Razak, who is married, in January admitted to having an
affair with Altantuya, but said he wanted her out of his life
after she demanded money.


Police have said the woman was kidnapped from outside Abdul
Razak's home before she was killed.


Abdul Razak and the two police officers face the death penalty if
found guilty.

