

Polish Sports Minister Tomasz Lipiec on Thursday vowed to make
Polish football graft-free by the time the country hosts the Euro
2012 championships with Ukraine.


"We want Polish football to be clean, and totally rid of
corruption by 2012," Lipiec told reporters a day after Poland and
its eastern neighbour beat Italy and joint bidders Hungary and
Croatia in the race to host the quadrennial tournament.


"Measures to fight corruption are already under way and will
continue. The first clubs have been punished," Lipiec said.


"We want to sort this problem out completely (by 2012). I'm
convinced that we will manage it even earlier.


"The championships must take place in an atmosphere of fair-
play," he insisted.


The image of Polish football has been tarnished over the past two
years by a match-fixing scandal which has led to more than 60
arrests -- including several referees, a top official with the
Polish Football Association (PZPN) and a string of club
officials.


The PZPN recently demoted two corruption-tainted top flight
clubs, Arka Gdynia and Gornik Leczna, ordering them to play next
season in the second and third divisions respectively.


Two second division teams, KSZO Ostrowiec and Gornik Polkowice,
have likewise been relegated by the PZPN.


The fallout from the scandal also sparked a dispute between the
conservative Polish government and the world and European
football governing bodies FIFA and UEFA.


Poland's ruling Law and Justice party came to power on an anti-
corruption platform in 2005.


The PZPN was swept up by the nationwide clean-up drive in January
this year, when Lipiec suspended its board and appointed a
commissioner to run the association.


But FIFA and UEFA protested that the move breached the sporting
world's rules against government interference and threatened to
impose sanctions on Poland -- raising the spectre of the national
team and clubs being banned from international competition.


Lipiec later backtracked and reinstated the former PZPN board
pending the election of a new leadership.

