

Leading German research institutes ramped up their forecast for
growth of the German economy this year by a full percentage point
to 2.4 percent.


And they called on the government to cut taxes amid fierce debate
over the best way of redistributing the fruits of the current
economic boom in Germany, which has the biggest economy in the
eurozone.


In their traditional spring report, the country's five leading
economic research institutes -- -- DIW in Berlin, Ifo in Munich,
IfW in Kiel, IHW in Halle and RWI in Essen -- sharply upgraded
their forecasts for German growth this year to 2.4 percent from
1.4 percent.


And the institutes said they expected growth to maintain its
momentum again next year when gross domestic product (GDP) would
similarly expand by 2.4 percent.


That represented a slight slowdown from last year when the German
economy expanded by 2.7 percent, its fastest rate of growth in
six years, and was largely attributable to higher taxes and
higher interest rates.


But the robust performance would enable Germany to achieve a
balanced budget in 2008, the institutes predicted.


The think-tanks weighed in on the current debate over whether the
fruits of the current upturn should be used to cut taxes, as
suggested recently by Economy Minister Michael Glos.


"The medium term goal of fiscal policy should be to cut wage and
income taxes in order to foster growth and employment," the
institutes said.


"There is also a need for change in corporate taxes, since the
current reforms are not ambitious enough," they diagnosed.


However, there was no room for the government to ease up on its
efforts to consolidate the public budget, the institutes said.


The current improvement in public finances was largely
attributable to the economic upturn. Deeper structural measures
were needed to put the budget on a sounder footing, the
institutes said.


The insitutes predicted that the German public deficit would
decline from 1.7 percent of GDP in 2006 to just 0.6 percent of
GDP in 2007. And Germany was expected to achieve a balanced
budget, or a deficit ratio of zero, in 2008, they said.


Under the terms of the European Stability and Growth Pact,
eurozone members are not allowed to run up public deficits in
excess of 3.0 percent of GDP.


The improved situation in Germany's public finances is fuelling
demands from various ministries for a bigger slice of the cake,
with the Financial Times Deutschland reporting Thursday that
ministers were calling for five billion euros in additional cash
in their 2008 budgets.


Family Minister Ursula von der Leyen, for example, wants more
money to be spent on more creches for children of a pre-school
age.


But the institutes said the government would not only have to
fend off such demands for increased spending, but also make
efforts to cut spending further.


Economy Minister Glos said he would heed such recommendations.


"If we want to go along the path of steeper growth, we have to
use the upturn for long-lasting consolidation of public budgets
and press ahead with our reforms," Glos said.


With regard to monetary policy, the five institutes predicted the
ECB would raise its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate by a
further 0.25 percentage point this summer to 4.0 percent.


Nevertheless, the tighter monetary conditions would not hamper
"robust economic expansion, since long-term interest rates remain
comparatively low," they said.


Germany's strong economic performance would lead to an
improvement on the labour market, with the annual average jobless
total set to fall below four million for the first time since
2001.


The jobless total would fall to 3.767 million in 2007 from 4.487
million in 2006 and then decline to further to 3.465 million in
2008, the institutes said.


The jobless rate, which measures the total number of unemployed
as a proportion of the working population as a whole, was
projected to decline from 10.3 percent in 2006 to 8.7 percent in
2007 and 8.0 percent in 2008.


On the inflation front, German inflation was projected to pick up
only fractionally to 1.8 percent in both 2007 and 2008 from 1.7
percent in 2006, the institutes said.


The ECB defines price stability as inflation rates close to but
just below 2.0 percent.

