

Two pro-democracy lawyers will go on trial in Vietnam next month
for defaming the communist state, a judicial source said
Thursday.


The two Hanoi-based lawyers were detained in March for breaching
laws against "propagating against" and "defaming" the government.
If convicted, they face jail terms of up to 20 years.


"The trial of Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan is scheduled
for May 11 in Hanoi's people's court," the source said, referring
to a decision made by a senior party official.


However, a spokesman for the foreign affairs ministry said he had
"no further information about the exact date of the trial."


Police in Hanoi earlier said they had confiscated documents the
lawyers were about to disseminate to the public, calling for
pluralism and democracy in Vietnam and denouncing government
human rights violations.


Dai's wife told AFP she had not been informed of the trial date.


"I have not even met my husband since he was arrested. Police
told me that no meeting is allowed during their investigation on
him," she said.


"I have sent several letters to party and government leaders
asking them to allow me to meet my husband and seek him a lawyer.
But I received no response."


A Vietnamese court in central Hue city last month sentenced
dissident Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly, 60, to eight years in
jail for spreading propaganda against the government.


Ly, a founding member of the banned "Bloc 8406" pro-democracy
coalition of which Dai and Nhan are also part, has been jailed
several times since the 1970s for a total of 14 years for
peaceful activism against the state.


Following his trial, the US ambassador to Vietnam, Michael
Marine, called on the communist one-party state to free its
dissidents and open up its political system.


In a recent visit to Vietnam, Eric John, US Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for East Asia and the Pacific, said the United
States would raise human rights concerns when Vietnam's President
Nguyen Minh Triet visits Washington this summer.

