

Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood has assured Arsene Wenger and
supporters that the club wants him to stay on as manager even
after his current contract expires next year.


Doubts are being cast over the Frenchman's future following the
departure late Wednesday of the club's vice-chairman David Dein,
a close ally of Wenger and the man who was instrumental in
bringing him to Highbury in 1996.


Dein left over what were termed as "irreconcilable differences"
involving the way the club was run.


Those differences are understood to be over the direction and
ownership of the club, with Dein known to be very much in favour
of the involvement of American billionaire Stan Kroenke.


That put him at odds with Arsenal director Danny Fiszman and also
chairman Hill- Wood.


Despite the close bonds between Dein and Wenger, Hill-Wood was at
pains to insist that the most successful coach in the history of
the club was not on the way out.


"I think it's well known that Arsene and David have got on very
well over the past 10 years and I am certain that Arsene will
miss him," Hill-Wood told Arsenal TV Online.


"However I believe the relationship that Arsene has with the rest
of the board is good.


"He is on contract with us until 2008 and we very much hope that
he will extend his contract beyond that, but we haven't got into
talking details on that yet."


Hill-Wood also said that reports that Dein had left was linked to
the question of the transfer funds available to Wenger were
wrong.


"We've always made funds available to Arsene, he attends the
board meetings, he understands the financial position. I can
assure supporters that we will continue to provide funds when
Arsene requires them," he said.


"We have a very good squad - young, maybe, but developing well
and if Arsene wants to strengthen it we have the money to provide
him with any reasonable purchases he wants to make."


Dein was a key figure in Arsenal's transfer dealings but Hill-
Wood insisted that other "senior executives" would fulfil the
role.


"We have a number of senior executives at the club. We haven't
formalised the arrangement yet but I'm certain that one or more
of them will handle the matter of transfers in David Dein's
absence," he said.


Dein's departure has sparked speculation that he was ready to
sell his 14 percent stake in the club to Kroenke, who has already
acquired 11 percent of the tightly-controlled Arsenal shares.


If that was to happen, Kroenke, the owner of Major League
Soccer's Colorado Rapids, basketball team Denver Nuggets and ice
hockey side Colorado Avalanche, would become the biggest
shareholder in the Gunners, currently valued at 420 million
pounds.


But he would remain short of the 30 percent required to trigger
an automatic takeover bid under UK corporate law and the
remaining board members, who together account for just over 45
percent of the shares, have agreed to hang on to their stakes for
at least the next year.


Analysts suggested that the stance of the board, led by chairman
Peter Hill- Wood, made a takeover unlikely in the short term. But
there is certainly scope for a power struggle which could put
Wenger's future on the line.

