

World oil prices showed mixed fortunes on Thursday as the market
tracked supply worries owing to events in the United States and
Iran, analyst said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery gained 55
cents to 66.59 dollars per barrel in London electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dipped eight cents to 63.05 dollars per barrel
in electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


"Crude futures were higher today (Thursday) on concerns about
Iran, reversing earlier losses that had been triggered by news
that a major Canadian pipeline has been restarted" carrying crude
to the US Midwest, Sucden analyst Michael Davies said in London.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of crude, has started
feeding uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it
has installed over 1,300 centrifuges, the UN atomic watchdog said
late Wednesday.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Also on Wednesday, Iran refused to rule out using oil as a weapon
if the standoff with the West over its nuclear programme
intensifies, saying that the Islamic Republic would use every
means if attacked.


"The market has received a lift... from renewed concerns over
Iran's nuclear programme," Davies said.


News that China's economy grew by 11.1 percent in the first
quarter, compared with the first three months of 2006, was also
supporting crude futures.


"The country's economy is booming, with ever increasing demand
for commodities," Davies said. Fears that demand could fall,
however, should China hike its interest rates in a bid to cool
the economy were dismissed by the analyst.


"We would argue that past experience shows that so far the
Chinese government's attempts to slow down economic growth have
had little impact," he said.


Weighing on oil prices, meanwhile, was news that refineries had
picked up production last week.


This offset data published Wednesday by the US Department of
Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline (petrol) reserves fell 2.7
million barrels last week, the 10th consecutive decline and more
than analyst forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million barrels.


Dealers are watching gasoline stocks closely before the US summer
driving season, starting next month, when many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.

