

A dam in northwest China cracked Thursday following heavy rains,
flooding farms and at least two villages downstream but no
casualties have been reported, officials and state media said.


Rescue teams had been dispatched to evacuate residents downstream
from the Xiaohaizi reservoir in Gansu province, a report by
Xinhua news agency said.


"It happened at 12:30 pm (0430GMT) today and all (government)
staff here have gone to the scene," an official with the Gaotai
county government told AFP.


One official said two villages had been affected but could not
provide further details as teams inspecting the remote area had
yet to report back.


Xu Dongbo, a government official from nearby Nanhua township,
said that recent heavy rains could be to blame for the rupture.


Xinhua said the crack in the ten-metre-high (32-foot) dam was 15
metres long.


"There is a crack in the dam which caused the water to pour out.
People are trying to fix it there now," Wang Lijuan, a teacher at
a school in Xiaohaizi village just below the dam, told AFP.


"There are three communes in our village affected by the water.
The farmland is flooded but all the people here are fine. No one
has been killed or injured because the amount of water was not
large," she said.


"The water is almost gone."


The reservoir was put into operation in 2004, Xinhua said.


China's dams and other efforts to control the country's
frequently treacherous rivers have a long and tragic history.


In August 1975, a total of 62 dams in the central province of
Henan either collapsed or were intentionally destroyed during a
record rainstorm.


According to official statistics, at least 26,000 were killed and
10 million severely affected by the ensuing floods, which were
kept secret for decades. Experts have blamed faulty engineering
for some of the dam failures.


Cracks in the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze river have raised
concerns over construction quality of the world's largest
hydroelectric project, built partly to aid flood control.


The government has said the cracks pose no problem and has
carried out repairs.

