

Beijing Olympic organisers said Thursday  they were still hoping
for a last- minute inclusion of Taiwan in the Olympic torch relay
despite a political storm generated by the controversial plan.


The torch relay route will be announced here next week and
Taiwan's governing party has reportedly ruled out allowing the
flame to pass through the self-ruled island which is claimed by
China.


But Jiang Xiaoyu, executive vice president of the Games
organising committee, said that the roadblock to the Olympic
relay could be removed by "concerted efforts."


"I believe that guided by principles of the International Olympic
Committee (IOC) about the torch relay and with concerted efforts
from various parties, we can find a solution to satisfy every
people's goals," Jiang told a press conference after three days
of meetings here with top IOC officials.


"We feel that we should enable Taiwan compatriots to also enjoy
the glory and enthusiasm brought about by the torch relay."


The route for the torch has been essentially decided and will be
announced here next week, according to IOC officials.


Hein Verbruggen, head of the IOC commission working with the
Beijing Games organisers, said the IOC's problem with Taiwan was
unusual in that most countries were keen to host the relay.


"We have as the IOC such an amount of requests from countries
that don't ask for anything better than to be part of the torch
relay that I have difficulty imagining that any country does not
want the torch relay, and that goes also for Taiwan," he said.


Beijing's ambitious torch relay plans include carrying the flame
over Mount Everest.


But the planned leg through Taiwan, Beijing's long-time
diplomatic foe, is the most controversial.


Authorities on the island are reportedly reluctant to be included
in the event on Beijing's terms, under which Taiwan would be
considered part of the circuit within mainland China.


Beijing considers Taiwan a part of its territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary.

