

Indonesia's environment minister defended Thursday his proposal
to ban sales of new cars in a bid to slash pollution levels, amid
concern from local automakers.


Environment Minister Rachmat Witoelar said the plan could be
introduced if new anti-pollution measures did not improve air
quality in smog-filled cities.


"The ban is a warning from me as environment minister because the
air quality is already at a really bad level in some rapidly
growing urban areas," Witoelar told AFP.


"We need to stop the sale of new cars, at least we need to have a
pause of new car production, unless they (carmakers) produce
friendly new cars that use gas, biofuels or electricity," he
said.


The minister said he would seek support from government
colleagues for the proposal if the new measures proved
unsuccessful. The moves include publicly grading cities from the
dirtiest to the cleanest.


Indonesia had already introduced new emission standards based on
international guidelines, he added.


The capital Jakarta and some other cities suffer chronic smog
levels and traffic congestion is a major problem.


The auto industry warned the move would impact heavily on
production and jobs, and said the minister seemed unaware the
industry was already complying with international environmental
standards.


The Indonesian Vehicle Producers Industry Association, whose
members include the nation's biggest car dealer PT Astra
International, called on the minister to get serious on pollution
and crackdown on other industries and power plants.


"Pollution from vehicles is still nothing compared to other
pollution sources," association general secretary Freddy Sutrisno
said.


"The government should also come up with policies which help
reduce urbanisation, spread out industries to other islands and
take decisive action in battling forest fires," he said.


"And most important, they should set down long term policies to
enable  thorough preparation for their implementation."


Witoelar acknowledged the social impact of the ban would be
horrendous for many Indonesians. But he said pollution from
vehicles was also damaging, contributing to global warming.


"It's true that the ban would have an impact on Indonesian
economic growth but we need to understand the impact of pollution
on our planet would be bigger in the future if we don't try to
stop from now causes of climate change."


He said he was concerned about rising levels of private car
ownership which some data shows increasing at 11 percent a year.
But association figures say sales of new cars plunged 40 percent
in 2006.

