

US-led forces killed 27 militants in clashes in Afghanistan, the
US military said Thursday, as Amnesty International warned the
rebels were stepping up attacks on civilians in a spring
offensive.


Separately a teenage girl was killed when NATO-led troops fired
on her vehicle, while Afghan troops exchanged fire with Pakistani
soldiers who were erecting a new anti-Taliban fence on the border
between the two countries.


Twenty-four of the rebels were killed and four vehicles destroyed
in a seven- hour overnight battle with Afghan and US Special
Forces and a subsequent air strike in southern Helmand province,
the US-led coalition said.


Two coalition soldiers were also wounded during the clash in
troubled Sangin district of restive province, which international
forces said they had seized back from insurgent control almost
two weeks ago.


In another clash the same day, three Taliban wearing fake police
uniforms and manning a checkpoint were killed after attacking US
and Afghan forces near Shindand town in the western province of
Herat.


"Over the last two weeks, there have been multiple reports of
Taliban fighters impersonating (police) officers and establishing
illegal check points to kidnap and terrorise local Afghan
civilians," the statement said.


No civilians were killed in either battle, the coalition said.


But NATO-led International Security Assistance Force troops
killed a teenage Afghan girl and wounded a three-year-old girl
when they fired on their vehicle in the Yaqoubi district of
eastern Khost province, the district chief said.


An ISAF spokesman confirmed the incident but gave no details.


London-based human rights group Amnesty International said in a
statement on Thursday that civilians were bearing the brunt of
the conflict between security forces and the Taliban.


Amnesty however said that "it is the Taliban who have a
deliberate policy of targeting civilians -- they are killing
teachers, abducting aid workers and burning school buildings."


A Taliban spokesman quoted by Amnesty said attacks on unarmed
civilians were forbidden, but added that there was no difference
between "armed people who are fighting against us and civilians
who are cooperating with foreigners."


Human Rights Watch, another rights group, said earlier this week
that 700 civilians had died in Taliban attacks since the start of
2006.


However tackling the rebels has also caused a diplomatic rift
between Afghanistan and neighbouring Pakistan, both of whom are
supposed to be allies in the US-led "war on terror."


Afghan troops tore down a new anti-Taliban fence erected by
Pakistani soldiers on the border between the two countries
Thursday, sparking a gunbattle but causing no casualties, an
Afghan defence ministry ministry statement said.


The ministry said that the fighting happened between the eastern
Afghan border town of Shkin and Angoor Adda in Pakistan's
troubled northwestern tribal belt.


The Pakistani military was not immediately available for comment.

