

EU Telecoms Commissioner Viviane Reding has urged her colleagues
to be on the look out for "protectionist pressures" on Telecom
Italia, according to a letter obtained by AFP Thursday.


"I am convinced that we need to remain vigilant," Reding wrote in
the letter to Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes, Internal
Market Commissioner Charlie McCreevy, Energy Commissioner Andris
Piebalgs and European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.


"Indeed, this episode shows that there are still protectionist
pressures in member states that affect the telecommunications
sector as well as the other strategic economic sectors," she
added.


The letter, which was first reported on Thursday by the Financial
Times, was sent on Monday.


US telecoms giant AT&T pulled out of talks on Monday to take
control of Telecom Italia over concerns that the Italian
government could interfere in the regulation of the company.


The government is preparing plans that would in effect require
Telecom Italia to keep its fixed line business separate from
other activities, which would deprive the company of a key asset
and make it less attractive to a suitor.


Reding said that while she was in favour of allowing more
competition for fixed- line services "if done for the right
reasons".


"Above all, we must ensure that this form of regulation is not
influenced by protectionist tendencies that hobble investment or
make the development of a competitive European industry more
difficult," she said.


Reding recommended that she and her colleagues "liaise in the
next days" to keep close tabs on the preparations for the new
rules in Italy.


The government of centre-left Prime Minister Romano Prodi, a
former Commission president, has already come under fire for
moves seen in Brussels as aiming to block a bid by Spanish
infrastructure group Abertis for Italian motorway operator
Autostrade.


On Wednesday, Prodi insisted that the new rules were not inspired
by protectionist motives.


In Milan the US ambassador in Italy Ronald Spogli criticised
Italy after the AT&T withdrawal.


"The letter of withdrawal of AT&T expresses clearly the fear
of investing in a market whose rules are unpredictable," he wrote
in the daily Corriere della Sera.


He pointed to the weakness of foreign, and in particular US
investment in Italy, where he said faced with the prospect of a
foreign investment  "one of the first reactions is frequently to
make the national interest prevail".


In Madrid the newspaper elEconomista said Spanish
telecommunications operator Telefonica was planning to offer 4.8
billion euros, or three euros a share for 66 percent of Olimpia,
the holding which controls 18 percent of the Italian operator.


In mid-morning trade shares in Telecom Italia gained 0.32 percent
to 2.35 euros on Thursday on the takeover hopes, while Pirelli,
its main shareholder rose 0.08 percent to 0.90 euros on an
overall market which was lower.

