

The International Olympic Committee Thursday urged organisers of
the 2008 Beijing Olympics to introduce contingency plans as early
as this year to fight pollution.


Air quality problems that were unforeseen when Beijing was
awarded the right to host the 2008 Games nearly six years ago
have emerged to present new challenges, IOC Coordination
Commission chief Hein Verbruggen indicated.


Verbruggen, whose commission is working with Beijing on plans to
host the 20O8 Games, said that despite Beijing's best efforts,
pollution remained a threat to next year's sporting spectacle.


"As far as we can see, everything that has been promised (by
Beijing on controlling pollution) has been delivered," Verbruggen
told a press conference here after a three-day meeting of the
commission with the Olympic Games organisers.


However, China's fast-paced economic development in the years
since the Games was handed to Beijing in 2001 has given rise to
more factories and more pollution than anticipated.


Verbruggen's comments coincided with the announcement Thursday
that China's economy grew a blistering 11.1 percent in the first
quarter, raising concerns about increased emissions.


"Obviously, given the economic development of this country, there
are problems that have been added to that, and that leads to
requests for contingency plans, if necessary, if needed for test
events this year as well as August 2008," he said.


Beijing plans to stage 26 test events in the second half of this
year and Verbruggen indicated that they would be a decisive
factor in the smooth operation of the 2008 Games.


"We have asked that the contingency plans, the effects of those
plans, will be calculated so that we know that it is enough to
guarantee that the quality of the air will allow the athletics
performances that we expect to happen here next year," he said.


Verbruggen, who leads his commission on twice-yearly inspection
tours of Beijing, gave the Olympic organisers high praise for
making "considerable progress" towards staging the Games.


He noted especially the "magnificent" venues including the
National Stadium, known as the Bird's Nest because of its
intricate twisted steel exterior, and the cutting-edge National
Aquatics Centre, known as the Water Cube.


"It is almost an emotional feeling that you have when you imagine
that in some 470 days athletes will be able to perform in this
magnificent environment," he said.

