

Russia warned Thursday against any attempts to unilaterally
recognise Kosovo's independence, reasserting its opposition to US
plans to help the ethnic Albanian majority province to split from
Serbia.


"We are very much interested in the stability of the Balkans and
Serbia and that stability could be violated by any attempt to
unilaterally recognise the independence of Kosovo," Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on a visit to the Serbian
capital Belgrade.


"Any solution related to the problem of Kosovo must be acceptable
for Belgrade and Pristina. Any attempt at a unilateral solution
that would be imposed is absolutely unacceptable," he said after
meeting with Serbian President Boris Tadic.


Lavrov stressed Russia believed it was necessary "to pursue"
further negotiations on the future status of the disputed
province in order to try to reach a compromise between Serbia and
Kosovo Albanian leaders.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission under UN Security
Council Resolution 1244, which was passed in mid-1999 after NATO
bombing helped to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on the
province's ethnic Albanians.


It legally remains a part of Serbia's territory under the
resolution.


Lavrov's warning comes just days after US Under Secretary of
State Nicholas Burns said Washington plans to co-sponsor a UN
Security Council resolution paving the way for Kosovo's
independence.


"We must now act quickly in the next weeks and months to finish
the job by helping to lead Kosovo to independence," Burns told a
US Congress panel on Tuesday.


In the coming weeks, the UN Security Council is to debate a
Kosovo independence proposal unveiled last month by UN chief
mediator Martti Ahtisaari after a year of fruitless talks between
Belgrade and Pristina.


Belgrade hopes at least nine of the Council's 15 members,
including veto- wielding Russia and China, will block any new
resolution that would strip Serbia of sovereignty over the
province it sees as the country's historic heartland.


Such a resolution would enable Kosovo's ethnic Albanian-dominated
parliament to declare independence, which would in turn be
recognised by countries that support it.


Speaking at a joint press conference with Lavrov, Tadic welcomed
the Russian stance, saying Kosovo's independence would set "a
dangerous precedent."


"I very much appreciate Russia's position (which is) based on the
principles of international law and in line with ensuring the
stability of the Balkans and all other regions that have
potentially similar situations," said Tadic.


"Any form of independence for Kosovo is absolutely unacceptable
to Serbia and, in this regard, Serbia does not accept the plan by
Martti Ahtisaari that foresees the supervised independence of
Kosovo.


"Serbia believes that establishing such a solution would be a
dangerous precedent that would have serious consequences for the
stability of the Balkans and other regions," Tadic added.


Lavrov's visit to Belgrade comes ahead of Russian meetings in the
coming days with other members of the Contact Group, a loose
grouping of powerful nations that has been overseeing the
delicate Kosovo status process.


The group gathers Russia, the United States and European Union
members Britain, France, Germany and Italy.


Under the Ahtisaari proposal, the European Union and NATO would
supervise Kosovo's independence.


However, along with Russia, EU members like Greece, Romania,
Slovakia and Spain also have misgivings about imposing a solution
to Kosovo's status that is unacceptable to Serbia.

