

The United States on Thursday confirmed the body found in a
mountainous area in the northern Philippines was that of a
missing Peace Corps volunteer.


"Philippine authorities will make final pronouncement of the
cause of death," the US embassy in Manila said in a statement, as
the remains of Julia Campbell, were flown to the city for
autopsy.


The 40-year-old teacher went missing on Easter Sunday while
hiking a mountain trail in the northern village of Batad, a
picturesque hamlet fringed with terraced mountainsides planted
with rice.


"The US Peace Corps is saddened by the loss of such a dedicated
and vibrant volunteer, who so loved this country. Our hearts go
out to her family and friends in the United States," Peace Corps
director Ronald Tschetter said.


There have been suggestions of foul play in Campbell's death and
the case remains under criminal investigation.


Regional police chief Superintendent Raul Gonzales on Wednesday
said the body "appears to have been intentionally buried."


Campbell's remains have been taken to a funeral parlor for
refrigeration while awaiting the arrival of an American forensic
pathologist who will assist local forensics experts in carrying
out an autopsy.


Its results are expected in nine days, according to the head of
the local crime lab Superintendent Joselito Rodrigo.


Campbell, an English teacher and one of 137 Peace Corps
volunteers working in the Philippines, had last been seen on the
afternoon of April 8 when she was hiking on a trail leading to
Batad.


The mountainous northern region is home to the Banaue rice
terraces, a world- famous tourist spot.


Philippines president Gloria Arroyo's executive secretary Eduardo
Ermita told reporters that Campbell's death "was an isolated
incident."


Communist rebels once plagued the area, but the crime rate has
remained low and attacks on foreigners are rare.


In 2002, a German diplomat and his wife were taken by gunmen from
the area, and robbed of their belongings and money before they
were released unharmed.

