

Production at a giant US-run mine in Indonesia's remote Papua
province has been slashed to 20 percent due to a protest by
thousands of workers, a government minister said Thursday.


Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Purnomo Yusgiantoro said
the ongoing protest, which started Wednesday over pay and welfare
demands, had slowed operations at Freeport MacMoRan's Grasberg
open pit gold and copper mine.


The underground mine at Grasberg was also running at just 60
percent of normal capacity, he also said, according to the
official Antara news agency.


"Even though this is a corporate matter, I call that this be
quickly settled in a peaceful manner so that the activities can
return to normal, Yusgiantoro said. There was no immediate
comment from Freeport.


The protracted dispute, which centres on demands for higher
wages, welfare and increased recruitment of Papuan workers as
permanent employees, has helped push world copper prices to
seven-month highs.


The minister's statement came as thousands of workers, mostly
native Papuans, started a second day of protests, and talks
resumed with the company after the two sides failed to reach
agreement Wednesday.


"They (the workers) are now in Kuala Kencana, numbering just as
much as yesterday (Wednesday)," said local police officer
Yudiantara.


Kuala Kencana is the site of the headquarters of PT Freeport
Indonesia, which operates the mine, just outside the town of
Timika.


Penina Karma from Tongi Papua, an organisation representing
workers at the talks, declined to reveal if there was any
progress.


Critics accuse Freeport of not giving enough to the people of
Papua in return for the mine. They allege the mine causes
pollution and that the military's protection of the site leads to
human rights abuses.


The firm has disputed the claims.


Freeport operates concessions totalling 3.6 million hectares (8.9
million acres) stretching from the coast to the central mountain
range at Timika, with its copper reserves estimated at 2.6
billion tonnes.


It runs its Grasberg mine in southwest Papua under a 30-year
contract with the Indonesian government that began in 1992. The
company owns 91 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, with the rest
in government hands.

