

China's Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC) made it clear
Thursday that it is not going to play second fiddle anymore to
foreign partners Volkswagen and General Motors.


"Without independent innovation, we cannot achieve sustainable
development," SAIC chairman Hu Maoyuan told press ahead of the
opening of Shanghai's 12th Auto Show.


"We want to create space for our brands and in the future, yes,
there may be some conflict," Hu said, referring to its two
flagship joint ventures with Volkswagen and GM that make up the
majority of the Chinese group's sales.


SAIC, which sold 1.34 million cars last year, is brimming with
confidence after it just completed its long-held pledge to begin
building its own brands by 2007, when it launched its own line of
vehicles.


The company unveiled in October the "Roewe 750", a sporty sedan
based on Rover 75 technology that the Shanghai-based firm bought
from Britain's scrapped MG Rover Group last year.


Hu said the company had received 7,000 orders so far.


Separately Hu said SAIC was willing to cooperate with Nanjing
Automobile Group, a much smaller producer, in order to reduce
conflicts over the shared acquisition of the MG Rover brands and
technology.


Nanjing Auto launched production of two MG sports car models last
month, after buying the rights to the historic cars from the
bankrupt MG Rover Group, once makers of the iconic Mini and
Jaguar, in July 2005.


The two firms are so far the only Chinese car companies to
produce their own lines in China after buying a Western brand and
technology that analysts say directly compete with each other due
to similar content and origin.


Cooperation between the two Chinese automakers would "improve the
efficiency of using state-owned assets," Hu admitted.


"We need to use assets more efficiently and effectively," he
urged.


Last year Nanjing, which also has a joint venture with Italy's
Fiat, announced it would build the MG brand in Oklahoma from May
2008, which would make it the first Chinese automaker to build
cars in the United States.


Its ambitions have however been overshadowed by its chairman's
recent request for financial help, sparking concerns in the
domestic media that the company is fiscally overstretched and may
have to shelve the plan.


Hu also said that SAIC has no overseas listing plan at present,
contrary to previous media reports.


He added that South Korea's Ssangyong Motor Co, which is owned by
SAIC, has set a sales target of 330,000 units, which would make
it South Korea's third largest automaker by then.

