

Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni voiced disappointment on
Thursday that only the two Arab states that already have
diplomatic ties with the Jewish state were ready to hold contacts
on an Arab peace blueprint.


"The Arab states with whom we do not have relations could have
been partners in this process from the very first step, but
instead they stipulated conditions," Livni was quoted by her
office as telling visiting US Defence Secretary Robert Gates.


"Israel, of course, is open to any dialogue."


The Arab League had announced on Wednesday that just Egypt and
Jordan -- the only two Arab states that have signed peace
treaties with Israel -- will take part in contacts on the 2002
Arab peace plan.


After a meeting of 13 Arab foreign ministers in Cairo, Arab
League chief Amr Mussa said that other Arab governments would
only join the talks if Israel first stopped Jewish settlement
expansion in the occupied West Bank and construction of its
controversial separation barrier.


US officials had voiced hopes that pro-Western Gulf states Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which both have public
platforms of no contacts with Israel, might join the talks.


Israel rejected the Arab peace plan when it was first adopted at
a Beirut summit but has warmed to it in recent months at least as
a starting point for negotiations.


The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of relations in
exchange for a full withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied
in the 1967 Middle East war, the creation of a Palestinian state
and, in the major sticking point for Israel, the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Livni said that the security of Israel would be paramount in any
talks on a two- state solution.


"There are security issues that are important to Israel, and it
must be ascertained that a future Palestinian state does not turn
into a terrorist lair," she said.


She also reiterated Israeli concerns about what it believes is
large-scale arms smuggling into the Gaza Strip from Egypt by
Palestinian militants.


"It is important to deal with the issue of smuggling of armaments
from Egypt into the Gaza Strip," she said, adding that "it casts
a shadow on the possibility of any future compromise on other
issues."

