

China's economy picked up speed in the first quarter, growing
11.1 percent compared with the same period a year earlier, the
government said Thursday.


The outcome for the first three months of the year, largely in
line with analyst forecasts at around 11 percent, is likely to
have been boosted by a yawning trade surplus and massive
investment in infrastructure.


Growth in the world's fourth-largest economy reached 10.7 percent
in full-year 2006 and ran at 10.4 percent in the three months to
December.


The government has set a growth target of 8.0 percent for 2007 as
a whole.


The three months to March posted the highest quarterly growth
rate since the second quarter of last year, when the economy
expanded 11.5 percent, according to revised government data.


Announcing the figures, the National Bureau of Statistics noted a
whole series of concerns about the pace of economic growth which
continues to run ahead despite government efforts to put the
country on a more sustainable path.


"Outstanding problems existing in economic development are an
imbalanced balance of payments, excessive liquidity, an
irrational economic structure and high pressure on energy
conservation and pollutant emissions reduction," NBS spokesman Li
Xiaochao said in a statement.


China's main measure of inflation, the consumer price index, rose
2.7 percent in the first quarter of 2007 from a year earlier, the
NBS said. CPI in March alone was up 3.3 percent, suggesting a
pick up in price pressures.


The government is targetting an inflation rate within three
percent this year in the fast growing economy.


Consumer inflation is one of the key measures that the central
bank monitors when deciding what monetary measures to adopt.


Prior to the data, stockmarkets in China and around the region
had fallen sharply on concerns strong data combined with a pick
up in inflation would see Beijing take more draconian measures to
slow the economy.


Fixed asset investment rose 23.7 percent in the first quarter.


Fixed asset investment, the main indicator of mostly state-funded
spending on new productive capacity, is seen as being fuelled by
the ample liquidity in the world's fourth-largest economy.


The government has undertaken several measures to tighten
liquidity in the past several years as it tries to keep the
economy on a more sustainable growth path.


Industrial output expanded 18.3 percent in the first quarter.
This indicator has been boosted by massive investment in new
plant and equipment in recent years, alongside booming exports.


In the first three months of the year, China posted a trade
surplus of 46.4 billion dollars, about double the figure for the
same period in 2006.


China has been eager to prove it is addressing concerns about its
trade policies after the surplus last year soared 74 percent to
hit a record 177.5 billion dollars.

