

The International Olympic Committee (IOC) on Thursday backed
Beijing's efforts to tackle pollution and other environmental
concerns ahead of the 2008 Olympic Games.


Pal Schmitt, chairman of the IOC's sports and environment
commission, said he was satisfied with Beijing's preparations to
meet stringent environmental standards to which the city
committed in order to host the event.


"They are very much committed. They promised to 'green' the
Games, to 'green' the city," Schmitt told AFP on the sidelines of
an environment conference in Singapore.


"I understand it needs a lot of effort," Schmitt said. "With less
than 500 days to go before the Games, I think the effort has
already yielded results."


Schmitt later Thursday was to receive a special United Nations
environment award on behalf of the IOC and its president Jacques
Rogge.


Rogge and the IOC were cited by the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) as "Champions of the Earth" for the sports
body's role in making the environment a key issue in the
Olympics.


As a result, cities bidding to host the Games have to adhere to
strict environmental standards on pollution and the materials
used to construct facilities, among other issues.


Six prominent environmentalists including former US vice
president Al Gore were also named this year's recipients of the
Champions of the Earth award.


Schmitt said he has received letters and e-mails criticising
pollution in Beijing, but stressed authorities there should also
be praised for their effort to improve the situation.


"There are those who are not satisfied, but the effort should be
appreciated," he said.


"In a big city, of course pollution is always a problem. I
understand that every day there are 3,000 new cars added on the
road in Beijing alone. It's very difficult to compare with other
cities or other countries."


But he said Beijing had made considerable efforts in garbage and
water management, organisation of traffic and reducing carbon
emissions.


The IOC is organising a world congress on sports and the
environment in Beijing in November, he said.


Beijing has taken 60,000 old cars and buses off the road and
moved smoke-stack factories out of the capital in a bid to reduce
smog.


It has spent 12 billion dollars since 2001 on improving the
environment, planting trees and parks and curbing smoggy
industries in a bid to improve its image as one of the world's
most polluted cities.

