

World Bank directors were set Thursday to debate the fate of
their scandal-hit president, Paul Wolfowitz, with Washington
under pressure to jettison its support for the former deputy
Pentagon chief.


The meeting of the 24 executive directors was previously
scheduled to discuss the global lender's planned development
projects, but now is likely to be dominated by a pay and
favoritism scandal that has engulfed Wolfowitz.


The White House has continued to stand by its man.


"The effort of the World Bank board should be get to the facts,
treat it with fairness, and think of the long-term effectiveness
of the institution," presidential spokesman Tony Fratto said
Wednesday.


The facts, according to a sheaf of documents released by the
board, are that Wolfowitz in 2005 personally ordered a hefty pay
package worth nearly 200,000 dollars and guaranteed promotions
for his girlfriend at the bank.


On releasing the documents, which include detailed instructions
from Wolfowitz to the bank's human resources division, the
directors said last week they would "move expeditiously" to
decide on possible actions to take.


On Sunday, at the annual spring meeting of bank ministerial
policymakers, governments expressed "great concern" over the
affair and supported the board's inquiry. Wolfowitz, meanwhile,
vowed to fight on.


The bank's five biggest shareholders -- in descending order, the
United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and France -- appoint a
director each. The 19 other directors represent the rest of the
bank's 185 member states.


Battle lines are drawn between European governments, which have
long been suspicious of Wolfowitz, and a camp of supporters that
includes the United States, Japan and some African countries.


While campaigning against corruption, Wolfowitz is also leading a
drive to raise up to 25 billion dollars from rich donors to
sustain the World Bank's development funding for the poorest
countries.


That has left some campaigners worried that governments in Europe
could use his fate as a bargaining chip over the US government.


"We question whether the World Bank can surmount these
difficulties to obtain new funding," German development minister
Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul said over the weekend.


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, ultimately the
administration's pointman for World Bank affairs, has also lent
his support to Wolfowitz.


But some observers suspect the former Wall Street banker may not
share the White House's full confidence in the politician, who
was one of the architects of the war in Iraq.


"As a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs, Paulson knows all
about good corporate governance and it's extremely doubtful that
he's happy with Wolfowitz at the World Bank," one former senior
World Bank staffer said.


After Wolfowitz took over the World Bank in June 2005, his
Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza, was sent on assignment to the US
State Department to prevent any conflicts of interest. But she
has remained on the bank's payroll.


The then head of the bank's ethics committee, Ad Melkert, said
Tuesday he advised Wolfowitz on his broad options regarding
Riza's employment but "never" spelt out the generous terms and
conditions that she then won.


It has also emerged that while Wolfowitz was still at the
Pentagon, Riza visited Baghdad as a consultant for US military
contractor Science Applications International Corp. (SAIC) in
2003, just after the US-led invasion of Iraq.


That has fueled the anger of World Bank staff, who have long been
fuming at Wolfowitz's appointment of former White House aides to
key jobs in his inner circle, and complained at his attempts to
revive a bank presence in Iraq.

