

French journeyman Raphael Jacquelin shot a blistering six-under
66 to take the first-round lead at the BMW Asian Open here
Thursday, as a host of golfing heavyweights failed to fire in
tough conditions.


Jacquelin, who is enjoying one of the hottest streaks of his
career, took advantage of the calm morning weather to outshine
the likes of Ernie Els, Retief Goosen and Paul Casey.


Jacquelin ended the day one shot clear of Denmark's Soren
Kjeldsen, while Frenchman Gregory Havret, Australian Gavin Flint
and South Korea's Lee Sung-Man were tied for third a further
stroke behind after carding 68s.


"The way I hit the ball and the way I made a few putts were
pretty good. The winds were getting stronger later in the day and
I'm happy to shoot six under today," Jacquelin said.


The 32-year-old, whose only title on the European Tour came at
the Madrid open in 2005, has struck rare form in recent weeks,
finishing runner-up at the Portugal Open and then equal sixth
last week at the Volvo China Open.


His run has lifted him to a career-best 15th on the European
Tour's Order of Merit, and he is clearly enjoying his time in the
spotlight.


"I'm doing pretty well at the moment... it's always good to shoot
low in the first round and relax a bit," Jacquelin said, adding
he hoped memories of his Madrid Open would ease the pressure of
leading such a star-studded field.


"I had the lead for three days in a row (at Madrid) and I won
that tournament. I'm going to keep this in mind," he said.


Kjeldsen's round was equally impressive as he struggled through
the much tougher windy afternoon conditions at the par-72 Tomson
Pudong Golf Club, with his sole bogey of the day coming on the
18th.


World number five Els ended the day five shots off the pace after
scoring a one- under 71 in the afternoon's wind, and was
relatively happy to be still in contention although disappointed
with a spate of missed putts.


"The wind was blowing quite a bit and affected the ball quite a
lot of the time. Anything under par today meant you played good
golf," Els said.


"I just didn't want to shoot myself out of it... I missed chances
but we have three days left and I have to keep going."


Fellow South African and world number eight Retief Goosen also
shot a 71, while eight-time European Order of Merit champion
Colin Montgomerie of Scotland was the best of the big names,
carding a 69 to be tied for sixth.


"I didn't putt well but three under is good. I am in contention,
which is where I want to be," Montgomerie said.


Among the other drawcards, 2004 Asian Open champion Miguel Angel
Jimenez of Spain carded a 70, while Casey, who finished second on
the European Order of Merit last year, was forced to settle for
an even-par 72.


Defending champion Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano of Spain shot a one-
over 73.


Two-time major winner John Daly was the most spectacular failure
and is in deep danger of missing the cut after shooting a 79,
which included a triple bogey on the ninth after hitting into
water and three-putting.


The 2.3-million-dollar BMW Asian Open is co-sanctioned by the
European and Asian tours, and Daly was lured from his home turf
in the United States in the hopes of attracting big crowds on the
weekend.

