

The tiny Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan is to stage mock polls this
weekend as a practice run for its planned transformation from
absolute monarchy to democracy, officials said Thursday.


Saturday's exercise is designed to familiarise people in the
"Land of the Thunder Dragon" -- which has never had an election
-- with how parliamentary democracy actually works.


"Everything is in place for the dummy elections, from electronic
voting machines to poll personnel," Bhutan's chief election
commissioner, Dasho Kunzang Wangdi, told AFP by telephone from
the capital Thimphu.


Real parliamentary elections are due to be held in 2008, the
culmination of a plan by former king Jigme Singye Wangchuck --
who handed his crown to his young Oxford-educated son Jigme
Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck in December -- to change with the times
and relinquish absolute rule.


The "dummy polls" will involve voters choosing their favourite
colour -- the challengers being the Druk (Thunder Dragon) Blue
Party, the Druk Green Party, the Druk Red Party and the Druk
Yellow Party.


"The two parties which get the highest number of votes Saturday
will go on to contest the final round," Wangdi said of the
process, intended to mirror the real thing next year.


Wangdi said two teams of election officials from the United
Nations and neighbouring India would monitor the two-round
process on Saturday and May 28.


Home to 600,000 people and known as a Shangri-la of breathtaking
beauty, landlocked Bhutan's transition to democracy began in
2001, when the former king handed over the powers of daily
government to a council of ministers.


The king famously decided to make Buddhist Bhutan's priority not
its gross domestic product, or GDP, but "gross national
happiness."


A 34-point draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has also been sent
to the Bhutanese people for their views ahead of the 2008 polls.
The constitution will replace a 1953 royal decree giving the
monarch absolute power.


An estimated 400,000 people are eligible to vote for 47
parliamentary constituencies. More than 800 polling booths will
be set up.


"We have already placed about 10,000 polling officials, including
security personnel, for the elections," Wangdi told AFP by
telephone.


Many Bhutanese people, however, appear indifferent.


"We don't really know what is going to happen or whether this
mock election would serve any purpose," commented Pema Tashi, a
tourist guide in Samdrup -- a frontier town close to Guwahati,
the main city in India's northeastern state of Assam.


An opinion poll conducted by Bhutan's national newspaper Kuensel
on Thursday showed 47 percent of respondents said they would not
vote.


Last month, Wangdi also complained that appeals for new political
parties to be formed had fallen on deaf ears -- even though all
the other trappings of a democracy were ready. Only two political
parties have since been formed.


The kingdom is about the size of Switzerland and is wedged
between Asian powerhouses India and China.


It had no roads, telephones or currency until the 1960s, was
never colonised, and for centuries the Bhutanese relished their
independence and isolation from the outside world, maintaining a
barter economy and allowing few foreigners to visit.

