

Devastated Iraqis hunted for dead relatives in city morgues on
Thursday after brutal car bombings killed 190 people in Baghdad
and raised questions about the US-led security plan for the
capital.


Wednesday's spate of attacks against Shiite areas of Baghdad
clocked up the highest single day death toll since November 23
when 202 people were slaughtered in a similar blitz against the
Shiite slum of Sadr City.


And the massive car bomb that ripped through shoppers and
commuters in the Sadriyah marketplace was the deadliest single
blast in Baghdad in Iraq's four- year war -- killing at least 140
people alone.


"O God, why all that!" sobbed one male relative, scanning frozen
corpses stacked up in the giant morgue at the Imam Ali hospital
in Sadr City after a night-time curfew was lifted and daybreak
made it safe enough to leave home.


Around 200 anguished relatives choked back tears and anger as
they swarmed past him, frantically trying to distinguish loved
ones from a grotesque pile of charred bodies, many burnt beyond
recognition.


For many, a ring, tattered remains of clothes ripped to shreds in
the blast or their teeth was all there was to pick out their
fathers and sons.


Some were unsure, dithering over whether the putrid remains
really were their flesh and blood. Some came back later to
retrieve the doubtful corpse for burial, desperate to end an
agonising trawl through city morgues.


"We will bury him even if he isn't our son," said one man. His
brother Ali Mohammed was one of those killed in Sadriyah, when a
giant car bomb incinerated shop fronts, human flesh, cars and
mini-buses.


Ali's two little boys will now grow up without a father.


In Sadriyah, dazed Iraqis wandered back to examine the wreckage
as an old man sat slumped on the ground, crying bitterly for one
of his sons who died, surrounded by a dozen mostly elderly men
gathered in silent grief.


"God is Great! Where were the police, the army, the Maghaweer
(task force). Didn't they see the vehicle passing through their
checkpoints?" shouted Abu Adnan, 65, peering into the crater
gouged out of the ground by the bomb.


Dazed friends and relatives walked past black placards nailed to
walls with the names of victims in Al-Kifa street for a mourning
at a nearby Shiite mosque as others returned to find their
damaged cars and shops.


Wednesday's attacks delivered a savage blow to the credibility of
a two-month- old US security plan that has seen 80,000 Iraqi and
US troops straining to contain the daily violence terrorising
five million Baghdadis.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki blamed the attack on infidels and
"Takfiri vampires" -- a reference to Sunni extremists -- and
demanded that politicians from both sides of the sectarian divide
condemn it.


He also said that the Iraqi army regimental commander responsible
for the area had been detained and would be investigated over
"the weakness of the measures taken to protect civilians".


On February 3, a truck bomb in the same market killed at least
130 people in the last days before the launch of the crackdown on
February 14.


Although US Defence Secretary Robert Gates vowed that Washington
would persevere with the security plan, politicians lashed out
the US-backed Iraqi security forces and blamed the US crackdown
for failing to impose law.


"The security plan has big shortcomings. Since such incidents re-
occured security should have been tightened. There is
negligence," said Naseer al-Ani, a Sunni Arab MP from the Iraqi
Islamic Party.


"Sadriya has been bombed two or three times. This region is an
historic part of Baghdad where Arabs, Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds
live together... This is part of a plan to target the heritage of
Baghdad," he said.


Bassem al-Athari from the office of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada
al-Sadr in the Shiite holy city of Najaf, held the US-backed
government security forces responsible for what happened.


"We condemn this heinous crime which claimed the lives of
innocent people in Sadriyah, Karrada and Sadr City. We hold the
security authorities responsible for what happened as they are
first and foremost in charge of peoples' lives."


The Sadr camp bitterly opposes the American presence in Iraq,
while the US military considers the radical cleric's Mahdi Army
the single most dangerous element in Iraq.


"What happened in Sadriyah and Karrada yesterday is proof that
the security plan is not directed at the real incubators of
terror," said Saleh Hassan Issa al- Igaili, an MP from Sadr's
political bloc in parliament.

