

Asia's richest woman left her wealth to her fortune-teller in her
last known will, Hong Kong media reported Thursday, predicting a
costly legal battle to control her multi-billion-dollar estate.


Nina Wang, who died aged 69 earlier this month and had no
children, left a legacy estimated as worth at least 4.2 billion
US dollars after transforming her company Chinachem into a real
estate empire.


A day after her lavish funeral Wednesday, two wills she allegedly
wrote in 2002 and 2006 were published separately in Next Magazine
and its sister Apple Daily publication.


The 2002 document said Wang's fortune would go to her charitable
trust. But the later version named her personal fortune teller,
Chan Chun Chuen, as the beneficiary.


Citing unnamed sources close to her family, Apple Daily said the
relatives -- Wang is survived by two younger sisters and a
brother as well as in-laws -- and senior aides were unfamiliar
with Chan and upset by the new will and were set to take the
issue to court.


The sources said the family held "important evidence" that could
discredit Chan's will and were confident of winning any case.


Wang's lawyer Jonathan Midgley declined to comment on the reports
and her personal assistant could not be reached.


If true, the 2006 document would have been penned two years after
Wang was diagnosed with cancer and after she won an eight-year
court battle against her father-in-law for control of her late
husband Teddy Wang's estate.


He disappeared in 1990 after being kidnapped. His body was never
found, and he was declared dead nine years later.


Wang's 2006 will said Chan would be sole beneficiary of her
entire estate and would determine the distribution of her
fortune.


The document, in English, showed Chan's identification number and
date of birth and also said the 47-year-old would use her estate
in a "good and proper way," according to Apple Daily.


It added: "My will is established entirely and wholeheartedly for
the need and good of my family and loved ones. It is my great
appreciation that my will could be announced fairly and
righteously as stated."


The paper said the 2006 will was not made before a lawyer and was
signed by Wang herself and a witness, an unidentified employee of
her company.


Albert Ho, a laywer who has experience in dealing with
inheritance cases, said the later document could easily be
challenged in court on the basis that Wang, ill from cancer, may
have written it under undue influence.


"The court would have a presumption that she was under undue
influence," he told AFP.


"If there's evidence someone whom a patient trusts has exploited
his or her weakness and ignorance to gain unfair benefits, the
court could rule that the will as invalid.


"This is not uncommon and I've done a lot of case like this."


Ho also said the will could be set aside because it does not
clearly state whether Chan is definitively the beneficiary or is
required to distribute the money.


"In court, this could be voided for uncertainty. I think it would
be very difficult to win this case," Ho added.


Meanwhile, Next Magazine published a two-page will provided by a
friend of Wang and supposedly written in Chinese in 2002.


It named no beneficiary but indicated her assets should go to a
charitable trust she set up with Teddy Wang before he vanished.


The document said the Chinachem Charity Trust should be
supervised by the United Nations secretary-general, the Chinese
premier and the leader of Hong Kong.


It said the board should ensure the foundation expands and
endures and that it would set up international scholarship awards
similar to the Nobel Prize.


Despite the earlier legal tussle over the estate, the will states
that the trust should provide care and support for her father-in-
law and his wife, as well as to Teddy's siblings and the
education of their children.

