

Two Malaysian Hindu men Thursday said they were battling Islamic
authorities after being forcibly separated from their Muslim
wives in cases highlighting growing religious tensions here.


Suresh Veerapan issued a plea for help after his wife Revathi
Masoosai and their baby were forcibly removed from their home and
she was put in Islamic rehabilitation camp.


He said Revathi, an ethnic Indian and practising Hindu born to
Muslim parents, was sent to the camp for 100 days in January by
Islamic authorities in western Malacca state.


Her detention was extended Wednesday by a sharia court by 80
days, Suresh said, adding Islamic authorities in March had also
taken the 16-month old baby from him and given the child to his
Muslim in-laws.


"We are treated like animals, not humans, the way they have
separated me from my wife and baby," said a weeping Suresh,
adding that Islamic officials were now keeping him from visiting
Revathi.


"When I asked them why the extension, they told me she did not
cooperate with the authorities there," Suresh told AFP.


Revathi's detention is the latest in a string of religious
conflicts involving Muslims and non-Muslims which have sparked
outrage in multi-ethnic Malaysia.


In a separate case, another Malaysian Hindu man Thursday vowed to
fight Islamic authorities for custody of five of his children who
were forcibly separated from him, along with his Muslim wife.


P. Marimuthu said his wife Raimah Bibi Noordin and their five
young Hindu children were taken from their home two weeks ago by
religious officials, who said she was a Muslim.


Raimah and the children are being held in a ethnic Malay Muslim
village in western Selangor slate, and Marimuthu's lawyers
Thursday filed an application with a high court in the west of
Kuala Lumpur to free them.


"I just want to at least get my children back, I do not want them
to be Muslims as they were brought up as Hindus," Marimuthu told
AFP, adding he had one son living with him who escaped the raid.


Marimuthu said that Raimah, an ethnic Indian, was adopted by an
Indian Muslim family and was a practising Hindu.


Rights groups have condemned the actions of the Islamic
authorities in Raimah's case, saying they breached the country's
constitution, which guarantees freedom of religious practice.

