

North and South Korea Thursday began talks on food aid and other
issues after the South rejected its neighbour's demand for a
prior commitment to provide assistance, reports from Pyongyang
said.


South Korea wants to use this week's talks to press the communist
state to start shutting down its nuclear programme after missing
an April 14 deadline. Press reports said it may try to use its
desperately-needed rice aid as a lever.


The session was supposed to start at 10 a.m. but was delayed
after the North demanded that texts of opening speeches be
exchanged in advance, the reports said.


The North also wanted to see a draft agreement on the South's
provision of rice aid, and a draft of a joint press statement to
be issued at the end of the four- day economic cooperation talks.


The South rejected all the requests as "unprecedented" and
"unproductive," according to South Korean reporters covering the
meeting.


In his opening speech Seoul's chief delegate Chin Dong-Soo was to
urge the North to honour an international disarmament pact and
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as soon as possible,
according to an advance text.


North Korea has indicated it would be unhappy with such a call.


"We work on the strict principle of the separation of politics
and economics," Kwon Ho-Ung, its chief cabinet councillor, said
Wednesday.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations
worsened further after its October nuclear test but improved when
the North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


The North has told international aid agencies it faces a one-
million-ton food shortfall this year.


Under the first phase of the February six-nation deal, the North
was supposed by last Saturday to have shut down and sealed
Yongbyon, which produces the raw material for plutonium to make
bombs.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week,
but there has been no word on when or how the cash will be
withdrawn.


During a lunch meeting with South Korean delegates, the North
also rejected demands that it return a captured US navy ship.


"Return? Why do we return such an important thing?" chief
delegate Chu Tong-Chan was quoted as saying about the USS Pueblo,
seized in 1968 while on an intelligence-gathering mission.


On Wednesday US Republican Senator Wayne Allard introduced a
resolution demanding the North return the Pueblo in exchange for
a Korean battle flag captured in the 19th century.


In addition to possible rice aid, the proposed opening of two
railway lines across the heavily fortified border is also on the
agenda. A deal under which the South would swap raw materials for
natural resources will also be discussed.

