

Tsar, love object, marketing gimmick -- there seems to be no
limit to President Vladimir Putin's popularity among Russians
less than a year before he is due to leave the Kremlin.


Western critics accuse Putin of everything from crushing the free
media to bullying neighbours such as Georgia and Ukraine. Some
blame him for frosty Russian-US relations they see leading to a
new Cold War.


But at home, Putin, 54, can do no wrong.


A poll released Thursday by the respected Yury Levada centre
found that 79 percent of Russians are happy with Putin's
performance.


They are so happy, according to another poll this week, that two-
thirds want Putin to remain in office for a third term, instead
of quitting after the March 2008 presidential election, as the
constitution requires.


The former KGB officer has repeatedly promised to step down at
the end of his second term, but the adulation feeds rumors that
he will find a way to retain power.


"Springtime love for Putin flares," read a front page headline in
the pro- Kremlin newspaper Izvestia on Wednesday.


According to Izvestia, a local publishing house is preparing a
golden DVD for Putin containing professions of love from his
fellow citizens.


Minor officials and provincial governments show their devotion
with regular appeals for Putin to revise the constitution and
remain in office.


On Tuesday, 50 young members of the Putin Fan Club went to Red
Square to repeat that call. They wore T-shirts reading "I want to
see (Putin)" and demonstratively gazed through binoculars at the
Kremlin.


Others are using Putin mania to boost their bank accounts.


Following the marketing success of a vodka named Putinka, a
preserved foods company in the southern province of Astrakhan has
found a way to capitalise on the president's popularity while
skirting a law that forbids using people's names for marketing
purposes without permission.


The Astrakhan company named its products PUIN, Vedomosti business
daily reported Thursday. It prints the name with a sword through
it that takes the place of the T. Incidentally, the sword closely
resembles the historic symbol for the KGB.


Sales have been quick since the brand launch in December,
allowing the Russian Canning Company to break into national
supermarket chains, company director Sergei Sokolov was quoted as
saying.


The tabloid newspaper Sovershenno Sekretno got into the game
earlier this month, running a billboard advertisement in Moscow
showing a man reading the newspaper.


Only the nearly-bald crown of his head is visible, but the
similarity to Putin is unmistakable.


Analysts say that with state control over nearly all broadcast
media and much of the written press, Putin's spin doctors have an
easy task.


A marketing expert, who asked not to be identified because of the
political sensitivities, compared Putin mania to personality
cults in repressive countries.


"You had that in Soviet times, this adulation of leaders, and
it's continuing," he told AFP. "This has happened in lots of
places, like China and North Korea."


At the same time, there is no doubting Putin's success in
bringing order and better living standards to a country
traumatised by the 1991 Soviet collapse and the turbulent years
that followed.


"These are reasons that would make any leader popular," said
Masha Lipman at the Carnegie Moscow Centre. Putin "is a ruler of
Russia who made a greater proportion of Russians with high living
standards than ever before."


For many in Russia, which has an almost unbroken history of
undemocratic rule, the idea that Putin should step down in 2008
is "stupid," Lipman said.

