

Her bid to whisk a one-year-old boy away from a life of poverty
in an orphanage may have raised hackles elsewhere but for the
people of Malawi, Madonna is a heroine with her heart in the
right place.


Eight months after she began the process to adopt little David
Banda, the US singer returned to the impoverished southern
African nation this week not only with her latest charge but also
her biological daughter Lourdes.


But while accusations that her fame and wealth enabled her to
fast-track the adoption process continue, the warm reception
locals accorded Madonna and David indicated most are enchanted
rather than appalled by the rags-to-riches story.


Gloria Yotamu was one of several hundred Malawians who gathered
at David's old orphanage near the capital Lilongwe on Tuesday to
watch the youngster return to his old stomping ground with his
prospective mother.


Yotamu said she was particularly impressed that Madonna had
brought David back to his roots so quickly and not simply
immersed him in a new life of luxury at the star's mansion in
London.


"I know about her charity work and her wish to give David a good
life," said Yotamu, who lives in a nearby squatter camp.


"Many people thought David was gone for good but here she is,
returning the son to his roots and culture," said the 26-year-old
who is herself the mother of four children.


Local human rights groups have challenged an interim adoption
order that was granted to Madonna last year and even some of the
singer's fellow celebrities have questioned her motives,
including the actress Angelina Jolie who called the adoption
"illegal".


Madonna herself has been taken aback by some of the reaction,
telling People magazine: "I did not expect the media, the
government or any human rights organisations to take a stand
against me trying to save a child's life."


According to Funsanani Yakobe, who makes his living by breaking
stones in a a quarry close to the luxury lodge where Madonna has
been staying, the carpers should keep quiet and instead ask what
the government is doing for orphans.


"If there is someone like Madonna to help improve the lives of
orphans, let it be because we are failing to help ourselves," he
said. "Where does all the money that is meant for orphans go?" he
asked.


The number of orphans is growing rapidly in Malawi as a result of
the AIDS pandemic which has not only claimed the lives of so many
parents but also of relatives who would have once taken care of
the youngsters.


Although David's father is still alive, his mother died shortly
after she gave birth in September 2005.


During her latest visit, Madonna also chatted with street
children and prostitutes at a government-run rehabilitation
centre in Lilongwe where a number of wellwishers held placards
reading: "Madonna you are welcome" and "Don't listen to critics:
We love you!"


Even among sceptics, Madonna's swift return to Malawi has allayed
any fears they had about her motives.


Alfred Chapomba, founder of the Consol Homes orphans charity,
said he does not believe in adoptions but rather believes orphans
be raised in their own cultural and social backgrounds.


However he said Madonna had helped raise the profile of Malawi.


"Many people out there did not know the country existed and
thought we are part of South Africa," he said.


"We need more goodwill people like her," he added.

