

China's economy grew a blistering 11.1 percent in the first
quarter of 2007, the government said Thursday as it called for
fresh measures to put the country on a more sustainable course.


The rapid expansion and acceleration of the world's fourth-
largest economy in the first three months of the year is likely
to have been boosted by a yawning trade surplus and massive
investment in infrastructure.


"We must carefully carry out all policies of the central
government and continue to strengthen and improve macro-economic
control measures," Li Xiaochao, spokesman of the National Bureau
of Statistics, told reporters.


Growth in the world's fourth-largest economy was 10.7 percent in
2006 and ran at 10.4 percent in the three months to December.


The first three months of 2007 also saw the highest quarterly
growth rate since the second quarter of last year, when the
economy expanded 11.5 percent, according to revised government
data.


Analysts had expected China to pick up speed in the first
quarter, with most forecasts at around 11 percent, well above the
government's official forecast of 8.0 percent for 2007 as a
whole.


The acceleration has come about despite a whole series of cooling
measures adopted by the government since early last year,
including interest rate hikes and reduction of tax incentives for
exporters.


"Investment and credit are rising fast, and the trade surplus is
large," said Ma Qing, an analyst with Citic Securities in
Beijing.


"As a result, the macro-control measures introduced so far have
not had a big impact," he told AFP.


China's consumer price index rose 2.7 percent in the first
quarter of 2007 from a year earlier, and was up 3.3 percent in
March alone, the bureau said.


The government is targetting an inflation rate within three
percent so the March outcome will be of concern as prices have
ticked steadily higher so far this year.


Consumer inflation is one of the key measures that the central
bank monitors when deciding what monetary measures to adopt.


Total fixed asset investment -- both urban and rural spending --
rose 23.7 percent in the first quarter, according to the NBS.
Figures earlier this week put urban investment at 25.3 percent in
the three months, rising from 23.4 percent for January and
February and 24 percent in all 2006.


Fixed asset investment, the main indicator of state-funded
spending on new productive capacity, is seen as being fuelled by
the massive liquidity still sloshing around despite systematic
efforts by the central bank to mop it up.


Industrial output expanded 18.3 percent, boosted by massive
investment in new plant and equipment in recent years, alongside
booming exports.


For the first quarter, China posted a trade surplus of 46.4
billion dollars, about double the figure for the same period in
2006.


China has been eager to prove it is addressing concerns about its
trading policies after its surplus last year soared 74 percent to
hit a record 177.5 billion dollars.


This was just one of several unsolved problems outlined by Li.


"Outstanding problems existing in economic development are an
imbalanced balance of payments, excessive liquidity, an
irrational economic structure and high pressure on energy
conservation and pollutant emissions reduction," he said.

