

Lebanon's leading opposition party Hezbollah will not give to a
UN envoy proposed changes it wants made to a court to try
suspects in the murder of former premier Rafiq Hariri, newspapers
said on Thursday.


"Nicolas Michel asked us about our remarks or reservations," said
Energy Minister Mohamad Fneish, one of the Hezbollah cabinet
members who submitted their resignation in November, throwing
Lebanon in political paralysis.


"Undoubtedly, we have remarks about the regulations of the
tribunal, but we will only present them to a legitimate
(Lebanese) government," he was quoted by An Nahar as saying on
Thursday.


Fneish was speaking after talks on Wednesday with the UN's top
legal advisor Michel, who was meeting government and opposition
leaders to encourage them to renew dialogue and accept
parliamentary ratification of a Lebanon-UN agreement to set up
the court.


"Hezbollah will only present its remarks within the framework of
a judicial commission so that they are adopted by a government of
national union," Fneish reiterated.


The Syrian-backed opposition sees the government of Prime
Minister Fuad Siniora as illegitimate since all five
representatives of the Shiite community presented their
resignations in November.


It has also considered as illegitimate the agreement signed since
then by the United Nations and the Siniora government for setting
up the tribunal.


Fneish called on the United Nations "to help adopt the tribunal
through Lebanese constitutional institutions, and refrain from
taking sides in the (Lebanese) internal dispute."


Lebanon's Syrian-backed opposition has blocked the establishement
of the court to try suspects in the 2005 Hariri murder, widely
blamed on Damascus despite Syrian denials.


The agreement to set up the tribunal must be ratified by
Lebanon's divided parliament, but house speaker Nabih Berri, an
influential leader of the opposition, has refused to convene
parliament.


A Hezbollah statement published in Beirut newspapers on Thursday
"warned against (Lebanese government) attempts to force the
adoption of the tribunal by the Security Council through chapter
VII" of the United Nations which provides for the use of force to
impose the implementation of UN resolutions.


"This will have destructive effects on Lebanon," it said.

