

Croatia's Janica Kostelic announced Thursday she was retiring
from competitive skiing due to long-standing health and injury
problems, and her growing love for her boyfriend.


"I think the moment has come for me to end my career. The major
reasons for that are my injuries," the four-time Olympic champion
told journalists.


Kostelic had already decided to sit out the 2006-2007 World Cup
season due to problems with her knees and back.


"There were many injuries that I was suffering a great deal from
and (trying) to forget in races and training," she told a press
conference on Zagreb's Mount Sljeme, where she first learned to
ski.


"The fear of future injuries might also have played a part (in
the decision to retire). You know how hard it is to return," she
stressed.


Kostelic, 25, confirmed reports however that she had also taken
the year off to spend more time with her boyfriend, university
student Boris Ivancic.


"There are other reasons too, and some will mention love. It's
true that I am in love," she said.


Kostelic has had a stunning skiing career, and her decision to
retire will rob fans of what would have been a likely battle with
her rivals at the Vancouver Olympics in 2010.


However the toll of undergoing several operations on her right
knee appears to have proved decisive for the woman who overcame
the odds to become one of the world's most successful skiers,
from a country which had virtually no tradition of Olympic ski
champions.


Another blow which seriously threatened Kostelic's career came in
2003 when she was diagnosed with a serious thyroid gland
complication. Surgery to ease the problem forced her to spend the
whole of the 2003-2004 season sidelined.


Dubbed the 'Snow Queen' in Croatia, Kostelic became the first
woman to win four gold medals in Olympic Alpine skiing history.


Her last gold came in the combined event at the Turin Games in
2006, where she also won silver in the super-G.


Four years earlier at the Salt Lake City Olympics Kostelic won
combined gold, silver in the super-G, gold in the slalom and then
dominated both runs of the giant slalom to earn her third gold
medal of the competition.


With four gold medals and two silver, she holds the record for
medals obtained by a woman in the Olympics alpine skiing events.


Kostelic also won the prestigious overall World Cup Crystal Globe
three times in her career, in 2001, 2003 and 2006.


The achievements of Kostelic and her brother Ivica, who is also a
full time skier, are all the more impressive given the path they
had to take to challenge the more traditional skiing nations such
as Austria, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland and the United
States.


Despite lacking financial support, stories of the family sleeping
in tents and the family car while travelling between competitions
and training venues are legendary in the sport.


Kostelic's success was also largely attributed to the hard work
she done under her father and coach Ante, who employed largely
rustic training methods to help prepare his daughter for the
tough World Cup series.

