

Sri Lanka's top defence official summoned Britain's envoy
Thursday after he expressed solidarity with an editor facing
death threats, diplomats said.


Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse "invited" British high
commissioner (ambassador) Dominick Chilcott to his tightly-
guarded office at short notice Thursday, a high commission
spokesman said.


"They talked about the role of the media," the spokesman said.
"The high commissioner and the defence secretary agreed that the
confidentiality of the meeting would be preserved."


The summons came after Chilcott visited the editor of Colombo's
Daily Mirror, Champika Liyanaarachchi Wednesday, a day after she
said she received a death threat from Rajapakse.


Chilcott's unexpected visit was seen by diplomats as a signal of
Britain's deep concern over recent attacks against the freedom of
expression in this former British colony.


His gesture of support came hours after the Sri Lankan government
accused unnamed diplomats of interfering in the island's internal
affairs and warned that those meddling would be kicked out.


Rajapakse denied issuing a death threat, in remarks posted on the
defence ministry web site.


"While admitting that he had had a telephone conversation with
the said newspaper editor, the defence secretary said that it was
just a frank exchange of ideas on two controversial articles
published on the said newspaper," the site said.


"He further stated that he did not make any threat to the said
editor other than openly expressing his views and was surprised
how certain media had exaggerated the issue."


Media organisations have described Sri Lanka, where the
government is fighting a bitter war against Tamil Tiger
separatist rebels, as the most dangerous place on earth for
journalists after Iraq.


Rights groups say critics of government policy are treated as
traitors and enemies of the state.


Although there is no formal censorship imposed, Sri Lankan
authorities prevent journalists from travelling to areas held by
the rebels, who are waging a separatist conflict that has killed
more than 60,000 people since 1972.

