

The United States consulted NATO allies Thursday on plans for its
missile shield in Europe before fielding complaints from Russia,
which is wary about Washington's real intentions.


The meetings at NATO headquarters in Brussels are the highest-
level talks so far on the US shield, to include 10 missile
interceptors in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic linked
to a forward warning system in the Caucasus.


The talks are being held at what the alliance calls "political
director" level; senior to a meeting of ambassadors but not yet
ministerial discussions.


Before they began, NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer
met the US delegation, including Under-Secretary of Defence for
Policy Eric Edelman and the head of the US missile agency
Lieutenant-General Henry Obering.


Washington says the system is aimed at protecting its territory,
but also many NATO allies, from missile attack by a "rogue state"
like Iran.


In Warsaw, on the eve of the talks, Edelman warned Moscow that
it, too, would be in the line of fire of any Iranian attack.


"We believe Russia has an interest in cooperating with us and
NATO because the missile threat from Iran comes to Russia first,"
he said.


Russia is nervous about the idea that its old Cold War foe would
set this up on its doorstep and has cast doubts over US
intentions for the shield even thought it concedes an Iranian
missile could indeed reach its territory.


Russian defence officials have said that Iran's current missile
arsenal is incapable of reaching much of Europe and certainly not
able to hit the United States.


Ahead of Thursday's meetings, a NATO diplomat explained they are
"only the beginning of a first real exchange of views," and that
it would be "too early to expect any decisions."


"Thursday's meetings could help restore confidence among us,
particularly with Russia, but also ease German concerns," the
diplomat said.


But he warned: "If things haven't cooled down after these
meetings, there could be a danger of more clearly marked
divisions among the allies."


Germany has demanded closer consultation with Moscow but is also
concerned that parts of southeast Europe -- Bulgaria, Romania,
Greece and Turkey -- would be exposed outside the shield,
expected to be fully operational in 2013.


Another NATO diplomat noted that Washington wants to move quickly
to get the project off the ground before US President George W.
Bush steps down next year.


"As for the Americans, they want to go fast and get the ball
rolling before Bush's mandate ends. So they are ready for
concessions, as long as the main thrust of the plan is kept," he
said.


Despite conciliatory US moves Tuesday on increased military
cooperation with Russia, Moscow remains pessimistic about its
concerns being addressed.


"We hope, although I will say sincerely that I am not optimistic,
that Washington will listen to our analyses and worries," said
Igor Ivanov, head of the Russian security council.

