

Disagreements delayed the start Thursday of inter-Korean talks on
rice aid and other projects as the South's team complained of
"rude behaviour" by the North, pool reports from Pyongyang said.


The first full session of the four-day economic cooperation talks
was supposed to start at 10:00 am but was postponed when the
North abruptly demanded an exchange of the texts of opening
speeches, the reports said.


The North also wanted to see the draft of a written agreement on
the South's provision of rice aid.


South Korean delegates were offended by the North's "rude
behaviour" and refused, sources were quoted as saying.


In his opening speech the South's chief delegate Chin Dong-Soo
was to urge the North to honour an international disarmament pact
and shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as soon as possible,
according to an advance text.


North Korea has indicated it would be unhappy with such a call.


"We work on the strict principle of the separation of politics
and economics," Kwon Ho-Ung, its chief cabinet councillor, said
in a welcoming speech Wednesday.


There was no news on whether South Korea would offer to resume
its desperately needed rice aid unconditionally, or whether it
would link it to nuclear progress.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations
worsened further after its October nuclear test but improved when
the North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


Under the first phase of a February six-nation deal the North was
supposed by April 14 to have shut down and sealed Yongbyon, which
produces the raw material for plutonium to make bombs.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week but
there has been no word on when or how the cash will be withdrawn.


During a lunch meeting with South Korean delegates, the North
also denied recent press reports that it is considering returning
a captured US navy ship.


"Return? Why do we return such an important thing?" chief
delegate Chu Tong-Chan was quoted as saying about the USS Pueblo,
seized in 1968 while on an intelligence-gathering mission.


The ship is berthed on the bank of the Taedong River in Pyongyang
and is used to fuel anti-American sentiment.


On Wednesday US Republican Senator Wayne Allard introduced a
resolution demanding the North return the Pueblo in exchange for
a Korean battle flag captured in the 19th century.


In addition to possible rice aid, the proposed opening of two
railway lines across the heavily fortified border is also on the
agenda. A deal under which the South would swap raw materials for
natural resources will also be discussed.

