

Burundi, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda have
adopted a joint military strategy to fight rebel groups operating
in the war-scarred Great Lakes region, officials said Thursday.


Military commanders from the four countries said those operations
would be planned and carried out in conjunction with the country
where the rebels are based, according to a statement released
after their meeting in the Burundian capital Bujumbura.


The DRC agreed to immediately step up a military offensive
against rebels in the country, notably in the remote eastern
region, which is home to several insurgent groups.


"Planned actions, which may include transborder operations, will
prop up (DRC's) immediate steps," said the statement.


"The recommendations that you have adopted constitute a solid
base for a permanent solution for insecurity in the region," said
Germain Niyoyankana, Burundi's defence minister.


Burundi is still struggling to implement a ceasefire deal reached
with its last active rebels, the National Liberation Forces, the
only of its seven rebel groups to have stayed out of a peace
process that saw the election of a power- sharing government in
2005.


Rwanda and the DRC are yet to resolve the issue of Democratic
Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda rebels hiding in eastern DRC
and accused by Kigali of having actively participated in the
country's 1994 genocide.


Their presence has damaged relations between Kigali and Kinshasa
and is considered by the international community as one of the
main obstacles to a lasting peace in the Great Lakes region.


Since the middle of last year, Uganda has been engaged in talks
to end two decades of fighting with the Lords Resistance Army in
the north of the country.


Some of the LRA leaders have in the past been hiding in Garamba
forest east of the DRC and are currently based in a forest
clearing on Uganda's border with the DRC.


"It is clear, Congo, Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi will not remain
suspicious (of each other) forever," said Niyoyankana.


Africa's Great Lakes region has been wracked by violence since
the early 1990s, with the civil war that began in Burundi in
1993; the Rwandan genocide in 1994; and the regional war that
raged in the DRC between 1998 and 2003.

