

Spanish construction group Sacyr Vallehermoso offered 6.5 billion
euros (8.8 billion dollars) to buy French public works company
Eiffage on Thursday, striking back at a board-room rebuff a day
earlier.


The bid by the Spanish company would create the fourth-biggest
European civil engineering and construction group.


The offer, in the face of an acrimonious meeting of shareholders
in Eiffage which kept Sacyr out of the boardoom on Wednesday,
also demonstrates the rapid rise of leading Spanish companies and
their determination to expand abroad.


Sacyr Vallehermoso, already the biggest shareholder in Eiffage
with 33.32 percent of the capital and 29.0 percent of the votes,
said in a statement that the two groups were "strongly
complementary."


The bid would create a "truly European group" with a strong base
in France, Spain and Portugal, with total annual sales of 15.4
billion euros. This would rank it after French group Vinci with
sales of 25.6 billion euros, French company Bouygues with 19.0
billion euros and the German company Hochtief with 15.0 billion
euros.


Sacyr Vallehermoso said that it had made an offer on Thursday to
buy all of the outstanding shares in Eiffage.


It was offering 12 of its own shares under a new issue for five
existing Eiffage shares, valuing Eiffage at 6.5 billion euros on
the basis of the closing price of Sacyr stock of 43.62 euros per
share on Wednesday.


Trading in shares in the two companies, in Madrid and Paris, was
suspended.  The market value of Eiffage on Wednesday was 10.38
billion euros.


Eiffage is a high profile name in French industry, owning a
subsidiary with roots in the work of Gustav Eiffel who built the
Eiffel tower and having recently constructed the spectacular
Millau viaduct in southern France, the highest bridge for
vehicles in the world.


The bid also comes three days before the first round of a
presidential election in France in which debate about defence of
French industry is a central factor.


The Spanish group said that its bid was conditional on acceptance
on behalf of at least 60 percent of the shares in the French
group.


Eiffage is the third-biggest public works construction group in
France and the sixth-biggest in Europe.


On Wednesday, the Spanish group was again rebuffed in attempts to
obtain seats on the board of the French group.


An acrimonious general meeting of Eiffage had earlier removed the
voting rights of 89 other Spanish shareholders representing 17.5
percent of the votes, on allegations that they were acting in
concert but had not declared the aggregate size of their
holdings.


Sacyr Vallehermoso has witnessed strong growth over the past few
years .


In 2006 it invested 8.9 billion euros in diverse shareholdings,
which resulted in a doubling of its net debt from 923 million to
1.89 billion euros.


It owns more than 20 percent of the Spanish-Argentinian company
Repsol YPF.

