

Relations between Britain and Russia could deteriorate unless
officials in London act against exiled businessman Boris
Berezovsky, Russia's ambassador to Britain said in comments
reported Thursday.


Yury Fedotov issued the warning after multi-millionaire
Berezovsky last week called for "direct action" to overthrow
President Vladimir Putin, although he tempered a call for "force"
to be used, saying he did not mean violence.


"A speedy resolution would help to improve, to develop, our
relations even further," Fedotov said, in comments quoted by the
Guardian daily.


"But the absence of a reaction would have some impact on
bilateral relations," he said, adding it could create "a new
situation."


Relations between Britain and Russia are already complicated by
disagreement over issues including Iran's nuclear programme and
plans to grant Kosovo independence.


The murder last year of former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko
-- whose supporters claim his poisoning was ordered by Putin's
regime -- has proved another flashpoint.


Berezovsky was warned by both Britain and Russia last week after
he called for Putin to go in the Guardian.


"We need to use force to change this regime. It isn't possible to
change this regime through democratic means," he told the paper.


In a statement issued later the same day, he said that elections
were not a "viable" way of effecting political change in Russia
and that he therefore backed other methods.


"I wish to make clear that all of these methods would be
bloodless...I do support direct action. I do not advocate or
support violence," he added.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she deplored his initial
comments and warned that officials would carry out an assessment
and review of them.


Police in London are also looking at the article and Russia again
called for Berezovksky to be extradited.


Berezovsky, who was close to former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin and Putin but fell out with the latter, was granted
political asylum in 2003.

