

Turkish police have detained five more suspects in the gruesome
murder of three people at a publishing house that distributed
bibles and Christian literature, officials said Thursday.


A total of 10 have now been taken into custody over the killings
on Wednesday in the eastern city of Malatya that shocked the
country and fuelled fears among Turkey's tiny Christian
community.


The three victims, one of them a German, were found tied to
chairs with their throats slit at the Zirve (Summit) publishing
house that had previously received threats for dealing in
Christian literature.


Five of the suspects, including a man who jumped out of a window
to escape capture, were caught at the crime scene.


Announcing the arrest of the other five, Malatya governor Halil
Ibrahim Dasoz gave no details, but said they were all of the same
age group --  young men aged 19 and 20.


Turkish Newspapers said all the suspects detained at the crime
scene were found carrying a letter that read: "We did it for our
country. They are trying to take our country away, take our
religion away."


Police have yet to make a statement on the motives for the
murders, but the press Thursday were united in the belief that
nationalist and religious zeal were the likely root cause.


"Religious brutality in Malatya," read the headline of the left-
leaning daily Cumhuriyet, while the liberal Radikal condemned
"The massacre of missionaries."


Several newpapers linked the attack to others against Christian
minorities in overwhelmingly Muslim Turkey, including the
killings of a Roman Catholic priest last year and an ethnic
Armenian journalist in January.


"Ultimate treason number two," headlined the mass-circulation
Sabah.


The victims of the attack were named as 46-year-old German Tilman
Geske and Turkish citizens Necati Aydin and Ugur Yuksel.


Aydin was the pastor of the 30-strong Protestant community of
Malatya, Ihsan Ozbek, the chairman of the Alliance of Protestant
Churches in Turkey, told AFP.


Ozbek described Tilman as a "simple member" of the Protestant
community in the city and said Aydin and Yuksel worked for the
publishing house.


"The community in Malatya never received any threat," said Ozbek,
who is also the pastor of the Salvation Protestant Church in
Ankara.


"There was only one incident in 2005, a protest against the
publishing house", which is owned by the Protestant community, he
said.


Media reports said the publisher had been the target of protests
by nationalists accusing it of seeking Christian converts.


An aide to the Malatya governor told AFP that Zirve "was engaged
in missionary activities."


Proselytizing is generally viewed with suspicion in Turkey, whose
population is 99 percent Muslim. Small Greek Othodox, Catholic,
Armenian and Jewish communities are concentrated mainly in
Istanbul.


Turkey, which is seeking to join the European Union, prides
itself on religious tolerance, but a recent series of attacks has
raised concerns that nationalism and anti-Christian hostility are
on the rise.


In February 2006, Italian Catholic priest Andrea Santoro was shot
dead as he prayed in his church in the northern city of Trabzon.
A teenager was convicted of the murder and jailed for nearly 19
years.


Five days after the murder, a Roman Catholic priest in Izmir,
western Turkey, was harassed by a group of young men and, in
July, another Catholic priest was stabbed and wounded by a man
officials described as "mentally disturbed" in the Black Sea port
of Samsun.


In January, journalist Hrant Dink, a prominent member of Turkey's
Armenian community, was gunned down in the street in Istanbul. A
17-year-old, detained along with 11 other suspected ultra-
nationalists, confessed to the killing.

