

An Indian MP has been arrested for trying to smuggle a woman and
a teenage boy to Canada using his family's passports, police said
on Thursday, the latest in a string of crime scandals to blight
the country's politicians.


Police said they were investigating whether Babubhai Katara, a
member of the main opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata
Party (BJP), was involved in a scam to sneak the pair out in
return for cash.


Katara was caught on Wednesday at New Delhi's Indira Gandhi
International airport along with the woman and the boy seeking to
travel on a Toronto-bound Air India plane.


They were arrested after staff noticed that passport photographs
did not match the faces of the woman and the youth.


The trio have been "charged with cheating by impersonation,
forgery for cheating, using forged documents, misuse of passports
and criminal conspiracy," police spokesman Rajan Bhagat told AFP.


Katara was also swiftly suspended by the BJP.


The scandal, which was front-page news in Indian newspapers, was
the latest to embroil the country's political classes. A number
of politicians face criminal charges but their cases have still
to be resolved under India's slow-moving justice system.


A Delhi court ordered Katara on Thursday to spend 10 days in
police custody and sent the teenager to a remand home, pending
further inquiries. The woman from the northern state of Punjab
was given four days in police custody.


The police told the court they needed to take Katara to various
places in Punjab to find out the extent of his alleged
involvement in human trafficking.


Punjab, despite being India's wealthiest state, is the source of
much of the country's illegal immigration to the West as people
there have the means to pay smugglers.


An investigating officer told the court that police had recovered
passports belonging to three family members from the MP's
possession, the Press Trust of India reported.


The court was also told that the 46-year-old MP had earlier taken
another person on his wife's passport to a foreign country.


The media quoted the woman's relatives as saying they had agreed
to pay three million rupees (71,000 dollars) to a travel agent to
send her to Toronto.


"(Travel agent) Joginder told me they can take my daughter-in-law
out of the country. I was worried but he assured me that he would
get her a valid visa," Charanjeet Kaur told India's CNN-IBN
television news network.


"We didn't know how they were taking her. We don't know who the
man is, I just came to know he's an MP," the woman's mother-in-
law told the network in Punjab.


Other media reports said Katara had used his wife and son's
passports to carry out the deception.


The mix of crime and politics is not uncommon in Indian politics.


Last year, a cabinet minister was sentenced to life for
kidnapping and murdering an aide who was blackmailing the
minister over a political scandal.


In 2005, 11 MPs were caught on camera stuffing wads of bank notes
into their pockets in exchange for asking questions in the
parliament in a television sting operation.


A 2004 study by an independent watchdog found nearly one quarter
of the more than 540 representatives in the lower house of
parliament faced criminal charges, including murder and rape.

