

Nigeria's presidential election, threatened with an opposition
boycott, will take place on Saturday as planned, an official with
the electoral commission said.


"The election is holding; no doubt about it," electoral
commission spokesman Segun Adeogun told AFP.


The Nigerian government has already given assurances that the
election will take place on the scheduled date, despite the
boycott threat.


Eighteen opposition parties earlier this week called for the
disbanding of the election commission and demanded that
Saturday's presidential ballot be postponed until "transparency
and fairness" could be ensured.


They also called for the annulment of last Saturday's regional
polls, which international observers described as marred by fraud
and violence that left at least 20 dead.


The United States on Wednesday appealed to the opposition parties
not to carry out their boycott.


But the State Department also called on Nigeria's government to
take "immediate and comprehensive" action to prevent electoral
misconduct and irregularities ahead of Saturday's polls.


"We urge Nigeria's political parties to adhere to the
constitutional process and to participate in these elections,"
State Department spokeswoman Julie Reside said.


"Evidence of wrongdoing should be brought to the attention of
authorities and all parties should cooperate in the peaceful
resolution of disputes through appropriate legal means," she
said.


Nigeria currently supplies around one fifth of US oil imports.


The wrangling over when and how the elections will be held comes
amid religious strife in northern Nigeria's main city Kano where
troops on Wednesday killed 25 presumed Islamic militants.


The military offensive followed an attack on a police station by
the militants that left 13 dead.


By the end of Wednesday the authorities were saying that they had
flushed the militants, whom residents described as numbering some
400 and being heavily armed, out of the part of town they had
taken over.


Kano was calm but tense Thursday with the militants' former
stronghold cordonned off by countless military checkpoints and
deserted expect for soldiers.


An AFP reporter saw the bodies of two armed robbers who had run
through one of the checkpoints by mistake and been gunned down.
He said the bodies of the Islamic militants shot had been removed
from the scene.


Authorities in the north of the country fear the militants who
were routed might regroup and stage other attacks elsewhere in
the region.


The governor of Kano State, Ibrahim Shekarau, said in a radio
broadcast that security agencies throughout the north of the
country were on alert for such attacks.

