

The soaring strength of the euro against leading currencies will
be in the focus when EU finance ministers meet in Berlin for
informal talks on Friday and Saturday.


All eyes will be on whether the ministers will turn up the
rhetoric on the surging euro after European finance chiefs kept
silent about the currency at a meeting with their G7 counterparts
earlier this month in Washington.


The euro surged past 1.36 dollars on Wednesday, for the first
time since December 2004, while sterling hit a near 26-year high
point against the dollar on concern about economic prospects in
the United States.


Despite the steady rise in the shared European currency's value,
finance ministers have been markedly tight lipped since February
when some were more notably outspoken over concerns about the
impact of the currency's strength on exports.


French Finance Minister Thierry Breton has been an exception,
commenting frequently on the strength of the euro which has been
a recurring theme in the campaigns for the French presidential
elections.


However, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who also
chairs regular meetings of finance ministers from the 13
countries sharing the euro, broke his silence on Wednesday with a
warning to currency markets.


"The markets should not embark on one-way bets," Juncker said
after a cabinet meeting in Luxembourg.


Asked about the apparently resigned attitude of European
countries at the  G7 meeting on exchange rates, Juncker hinted
that there was more attention paid to the euro's strength than
reflected in the final statement.


"I don't think that we can only trust the G7 communique," he said
after a cabinet meeting. "There were also exchanges on the
sidelines."


Despite growing concern in Europe about the euro's strength,
finance chiefs from the seven richest countries stuck at their
meeting to their long-standing line on exchange rates, saying
that excessive volatility was "undesirable".


The euro's strength arises in part from growing expectations for
eurozone interest rates to rise in the coming years while US
rates come down and in part from the growing strength of the
European economy, driven by a recovery in Germany.


Although the shared European currency's strength is partly a sign
of investor confidence in the eurozone's economic outlook, it is
also fuelling concerns because it makes their exports more
expensive on global markets.


Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi, whose country is enjoying a
export-driven recovery after several lean years, said recently
that he hoped that "the euro will not go up too much."


The euro's strength is of all the more concern because the last
time the currency reached such high levels against other major
units in late 2004 and early 2005, a nascent economic recovery
was derailed.


"Markets are becoming increasingly worried about a replay of the
economic scenario of 2004-2005," said economist Marco Kramer at
Italian bank Unicredit.


"At that time, business sentiment weakened considerably and
stopped the ECB... from starting its hike cycle," he added.


However, he was confident that a full repeat could be avoided
this time because foreign demand for the eurozone's exports
remained strong and because the euro's appreciation has been much
slower than during the last run-up.


While exchange rateswill be in the spotlight at the ministers'
meeting, they are also to focus on whether hedge funds need
tougher surveillance or regulation.


The meeting's host, Germany, has had little success in drumming
up support for tightening regulations on hedge funds during its
current presidencies of both the European Union and the G7.


The ministers are also due to discuss value added tax fraud and
better managing of public finances, two recurring themes of their
regular meetings.

