

Police arrested a suspected member of the far-left Japanese Red
Army here Thursday as he returned home after serving more than 15
years in a US prison for transporting bombs on a highway.


Yu Kikumura, sporting long hair and a bushy beard, was led away
by officers upon arrival at Tokyo's Narita airport.


Kikumura, 54, was suspected of using a forged international
driver's licence when he was arrested by US police driving on a
highway with three homemade bombs in New Jersey in 1988.


According to US prosecutors, Kikumura planned to bomb a veterans
affairs building in Manhattan on the anniversary of a US air raid
on Libya.


Japanese police reportedly plan to investigate his links to the
Japanese Red Army which carried out a series of hijackings and
violence on embassies abroad in the 1970s and 1980s.


The far-left radical group is most notorious for a 1972 massacre
at Tel Aviv's airport that killed 24 people, most of them Puerto
Rican pilgrims.


Kikumura was sentenced to 21 years and 10 months in 1991 and
released from a prison in Colorado on Wednesday. He was
immediately deported and flew home by way of San Francisco.


He has denied in a US court that he was a member of the Red Army
but he was alleged to have been seen in the guerrilla group's
base in Lebanon.


Kikumura was said to have left Japan in 1974 but he was deported
home after being arrested with explosives in the Netherlands in
1986. But he slipped back out of Japan only two days later,
according to Jiji Press.


The Red Army advocated worldwide leftist revolution through
violence.


Its leader, Fusako Shigenobu, was arrested in Osaka in western
Japan in 2000 after slipping into Japan under a false identity.
She announced the disbandment of the group in April 2001.


Now 61, Shigenobu was sentenced by the Tokyo District Court to 20
years in prison last year for her involvement in the seizure of
the French embassy in The Hague as well as two counts of
violating the passport law.


On Wednesday, Shigenobu denied her link to the embassy case at
the first hearing of her appeal trial at the Tokyo High Court.

