

Versatile enough to have performed almost every role in the team
except wicketkeeping, Shoaib Malik nevertheless faces a daunting
challenge to revive Pakistani cricket.


The 25-year-old was chosen Thursday to replace Inzamam-ul-Haq
after Pakistan's humiliating exit from the World Cup, and will
bear on his inexperienced shoulders the hopes of 160 million
cricket-obsessed people.


Comparisons have inevitably been made with South Africa's Graeme
Smith, who took over as captain at the age of 22 when his side
failed to get beyond the opening stages of the 2003 edition of
the tournament.


"Malik does seem to have a cricket brain, but the burden of
captaincy can be positive or negative, so a lot will depend on
his personal performance," said legendary all-rounder and former
Pakistan captain Imran Khan.


Malik, from the industrial town of Sialkot near the Indian
border, has played 18 Tests and 137 one-day internationals with a
batting average of 37.64 since making his debut against
Bangladesh in 2001.


The right-hander began in Tests batting in the lower order, while
under former coach Bob Woolmer, who was found murdered the day
after minnows Ireland ousted Pakistan from the World Cup, he was
promoted to open the innings.


Malik was also a vital force in Pakistan's resurgence -- until
the World Cup -- as a one-day side. Malik blasted 82 runs of just
40 balls against South Africa in Lahore in 2003 to set up victory
for Pakistan.


He is also a useful offspinner, although his action has been
reported twice, once in 2005 and then again in 2006, forcing the
lanky player to undergo elbow surgery.


The only other blight on his career so far was when Pakistan
cricket chiefs banned him for one Test in 2005 for throwing a
domestic game in protest after his team was penalised for a slow
over rate in another match.


"It is his intelligence and versatility that mark him out and
make him so vital to Pakistan's future," the respected
www.cricinfo.com website says.


"He is an uncomplicated batsman, with checked drives and cuts and
useful slogs when needed."


Pakistani selectors obviously thought so too.


One top Pakistan Cricket Board source said this week that they
had chosen Malik because "he is young and he is talented."


"We want to give a new look to the national team and he is a good
choice in that respect," the source added.


Former Pakistan coach and captain Intikhab Alam has however
warned that  Malik -- who was picked as skipper after Inzamam's
deputy Younis Khan turned down the job -- could face jealousy
from senior players.

