

"Menopause The Musical," a worldwide cult theatre hit celebrating
memory loss, grey hair and chocolate binges, brought critics out
in a hot flush when it hit London this week.


The show rewrites hits from the 1960s and 1970s to examine the
perils of "the change of life" -- "My Guy" by Mary Wells is
transformed into "My Thighs", while the Beach Boys' "Good
Vibrations" becomes an ode to a sex aid.


Since its premiere in 2001, the musical, which shows the
friendship between four women who meet while fighting over
lingerie in a department store, has been seen by over eight and a
half million people in nine countries.


Its biggest success has been in the United States but it has also
been staged in countries including Australia, Italy and South
Korea.


Critics in Britain were, though, less enthusiastic.


The Independent's reviewer praised the musical's "good nature"
but suggested that it "often has the air of an amateur skit
performed at an office party."


"When Germaine Greer wrote that women need to invent a formal
celebration to mark this important transition, I don't think she
had in mind a musical that features a climactic love song
addressed to a vibrator," the paper added.


The Stage magazine, meanwhile, said that the London leg of the
performance would likely see the musical "continue its
unstoppable international trajectory."


"As a condition that affects at least half the world
population...no wonder it has a nearly universal appeal," it
said.


Journalists were invited to a charity gala of the show, which is
currently running at the Shaw Theatre, on Wednesday.


Groups of middle-aged women dominated the audience, whooping and
laughing their way through the performance.


Some, though, had brought their husbands and children, many of
whom seemed slightly overwhelmed by the occasion.


Writer Jeanie Linders says she had the idea for the script when
she was standing next to her refrigerator, trying to cool down
during a hot flush.


"This song just came into my head, 'Hot Flush' to the tune of
(Rod Stewart's) Hot Legs, ya know?" she told the Times newspaper.

