

The political future of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert,
implicated in a series of corruption probes, hung in the balance
on Thursday ahead of a report on last year's war against
Hezbollah.


An Israeli commission investigating the 34-day war with Lebanon's
Shiite militia on Monday will present its eagerly-awaited interim
findings that many observers say will determine Olmert's
fortunes.


Speculation mounted over whether the report would explicitly
recommend that Olmert and his Defence Minister Amir Peretz resign
over a war that is widely seen as a failure inside Israel.


"The pressure is rising all around Ehud Olmert and his chair
could soon be vacated," said a commentator on army radio.


But the commission, headed by retired judge Eliahu Wingorad, has
declined to specify the nature of its findings ahead of time.


The report will include "conclusions of a personal nature,
including against the prime minister," spokesman Eli Shaked told
AFP.


He did not, however, say whether these would include a call for
Olmert and Peretz to step down, as demanded by the opposition and
the numerous critics of the war in Israel.


"It will be up to the public to make judgements based on the
report," Shaked said.


So far the most senior head to roll over the conflict was former
army chief of staff Dan Halutz, who quit in January.


An Olmert aide said on Thursday that the embattled premier, whose
ratings have reached unprecedented lows, will step down if the
commission recommends such a move.


"There is no doubt that everything recommended by the Winograd
Commission, which enjoys the confidence of the population, will
be applied, including if it delivers personal recommendations,"
Lior Horev, an Olmert aide, told army radio.


But if there is no recommendation for Olmert to go "this could
give the prime minister an electoral upswing," Horev said.


In addition to fierce criticism over the war, the 61-year-old
Olmert has been implicated in several corruption affairs that
have sunk his ratings to nearly zero -- only two percent of
Israelis trust him, according to polls.


In the latest such blow, State Comptroller Micha Lindenstrauss on
Wednesday recommended that a criminal probe be opened into
whether Olmert, while trade and industry minister, tried to
advance a former business partner's interests by extending state
funds to help him set up a factory in southern Israel.


Attorney General Menachem Mazuz, who has the actual power to open
such a probe, will now examine whether there is justification for
an inquiry.


Justice authorities have already ordered one criminal probe
against Olmert, over whether he abused his influence while acting
finance minister in 2005 in allegedly trying to steer the
privatisation of Israel's second-largest bank toward a friend. He
has denied the charges.


Olmert has also faced charges over several allegedly improper
property deals and appointments of political cronies while trade
and industry minister, but no criminal probes have so far been
opened in these cases.


Israel launched the offensive against Hezbollah after the militia
seized two soldiers in a deadly cross-border raid on July 12. It
ended under a UN-brokered ceasefire on August 14.


Despite statements to the contrary by its leadership, many in
Israel view the conflict as a failure as it did not achieve its
main objectives of freeing the two servicemen and stopping
Hezbollah rocket fire into the Jewish state.


More than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and more than 160
Israelis, mostly soldiers, were killed as a result of the war.

