

German engineering giant Siemens confirmed on Thursday it was
being investigated by the US stock market watchdog for alleged
corruption a day after the company's chief executive said he
would stand down.


The Securities and Exchange Commission will formally examine
allegations that Siemens set up slush funds to the tune of up to
400 million euros (545 million dollars).


CEO Klaus Kleinfeld announced on Wednesday he would leave his
post to allow Siemens, Europe's biggest engineering company, to
focus on weathering the corruption scandal which has shaken the
industrial group this year.


Kleinfeld, who has not personally been implicated in the
corruption probe, said on Thursday he regretted having to leave
Siemens at a time when it has just posted better than expected
returns for the second quarter of the 2006-2007 fiscal year.


"I regret leaving this company. It was an important part of my
life," Kleinfeld said at a press conference.


Kleinfeld, 49, said a request from the company's supervisory
board to delay a decision on renewing his contract was
"unacceptable" and he had decided it was best to stand aside.


German Economy Minister Michael Glos said he regretted
Kleinfeld's departure but believed he was being sacrificed to
allow the company to attempt to make a clean break with the
allegations.


"I believe he is one of the most capable German bosses," Glos
said. "But apparently it was time for human sacrifice."


The scandal at Siemens, hitherto one of Germany's most respected
industrial groups, heightened in March when a board member,
Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested as part of a probe into alleged
payments made to a union official.


Union representatives have a powerful decision-making role in
German companies.


The company has spent 63 million euros on an internal
investigation into the allegations.


It is not clear who will replace him. The chief executive of
Linde, the world's leading maker of industrial gases, Wolfgang
Reitzle, has been mentioned as a possible successor, but sources
have said he is not interested.


Siemens is Germany's biggest employer and has more than 450,000
workers worldwide. It builds trains, power plants and
manufactures medical and telecommunications equipment.

