

Nissan Motor's one-time saviour Carlos Ghosn achieved legendary
status in the automobile world for his success in rescuing the
loss-making Japanese automaker from the brink of bankruptcy.


But Nissan's first drop in annual profits on his watch has left
some observers wondering whether the 'Ghosn magic' might be
wearing off.


Ghosn, a Brazilian-born Frenchman of Lebanese descent, was
parachuted into Nissan in 1999 by France's Renault which took a
controlling interest in the Japanese automaker as it struggled to
stay afloat.


Ghosn was the first foreigner to head a major Japanese company
and won over a loyal fan base for his quick results and strong
work ethic.


When he took over, Nissan was a "keiretsu," a clogged group of
Japanese businesses which are closely linked and often own equity
in one another.


In October 1999, he presented his first "revival" plan for
Nissan. The most radical proposition was to slash purchasing
costs by 20 percent in three years. The plan's official goals
were all met a year ahead of schedule.


The plan required measures rarely heard of in Japan -- laying off
employees used to lifetime employment, shutting down factories
and cutting off links with suppliers.


Nissan announced earlier this week plans to axe at least 1,500
domestic jobs through early retirements but Ghosn, whose
downsizing at Renault earned him the nickname of "Le Cost
Killer," unveiled no new emergency measures Thursday.


Ghosn has reduced his hours at Nissan and in April 2005 he also
took the helm of French partner Renault.


In March, however, he said he would take charge of Nissan's
finances in a reshuffle after a profit warning that prompted one
Japanese newspaper to ask whether the legend of Ghosn "was coming
to an end".


"There is a tendency I think in Japanese culture, in Japanese
society, to go totally starry-eyed and crazy about somebody from
a very short-termist perspective and then to get fed up with him
very quickly," said Noriko Hama, economics professor at Doshisha
University in Kyoto.


"That's what has been happening (with Ghosn). But I think that
could change very quickly if things start to look up at Nissan
again," she added.


Ghosn, who was last year named an Honorary Knight Commander of
the British Empire, was even touted last year as the possible
saviour of ailing US auto giant General Motors until talks on a
possible alliance broke down.


Born in Brazil on March 9, 1954 to Lebanese parents, he was
reportedly able to distinguish types of cars at the age of five
just by the sound of their horns.


At the age of six, he went to live in the Lebanese capital Beirut
with his mother and attended a Jesuit high school there. Later,
he went to Paris where he picked up degrees at two of France's
most elite schools.


His Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, French and English are fluent.
His Japanese, picked up during his time at Nissan, is
rudimentary.


Ghosn started out his career with the French tyre-maker Michelin
and, after a shining stint in Brazil, was quickly promoted and
earned a reputation for turning around its North American
operations.


He now works a 65-hour week and crisscrosses the world in his
Gulfstream corporate jet, moving between Paris, the United States
and Tokyo.


"Shareholders don't care where you are spending your time. What
matters to them is results," he once told Forbes magazine.

