

Indian stalwart Gaurav Ghei grabbed the first-round lead after a
solid seven- under-par 65 with American star John Daly lurking
two strokes back at the Pine Valley Beijing Open on Thursday.


Ghei, a two-time winner in Asia, took advantage of calm early
conditions and enjoyed a steady round including an eagle on the
par-five second at the Pine Valley Golf Resort and Country Club.


Thai rookie Panuwat Muenlek was a stroke back in second while
Daly, a double major winner, was in lone third place after a 67
in the 500,000-dollar event.


Australia's Adam Le Vesconte fired a 68 in tied fourth spot
alongside South African Hendrik Buhrmann and England's Ben St.
John.


Ghei, who ended an 11-year drought with victory at the Taiwan
Masters last year, added seven birdies to his eagle and just two
bogeys.


"It is good to always think back on your win and if I can keep
this up, it would be nice to be among the leaders in the final
round. But this is still the early stages and anything can
happen," said the 38-year-old Indian.


"It definitely is a course which suits the long hitters because
the fairways are generous and we have guys like John Daly who is
a major winner in the field, is it going to be a tough week to
beat these guys."


Daly, who missed the cut at last week's BMW Asian Open in
Shanghai, delivered a determined run with six birdies against a
lone dropped shot.


"I came here Saturday and have been working hard on my game. You
have to be well rested to play golf these days," said Daly, a
five-time winner on the US PGA Tour.


"I got lucky. The wind wasn't blowing this morning so any time
you can get out there without the wind blowing, it favours you. I
hope to take this round and use the confidence heading into
tomorrow."


Second-placed Panuwat enjoyed a dream start with two eagles, a
birdie and a bogey in the first four holes.


Wu Kang-chun was the highest ranked Chinese player in joint
seventh position when he carded a 69 together with Singapore's
Mardan Mamat, who celebrated his 200th appearance on the Asian
Tour this week.


Also in tied seventh place was Thailand's Chapchai Nirat,
currently ranked 10th on the Asian Order of Merit, Taiwan's Lin
Wen-tang, Americans Edward Michaels and Anthony Kang, Australian
trio of Brad Kennedy, Scott Strange and Neven Basic, Brad Iles of
New Zealand and Welshman Craig Smith.

