

India's foreign investment body is expected to decide Friday
whether to clear Vodafone's 11.1-billion-dollar plan to buy
mobile phone operator Hutchison Essar, a government official
said.


The decision has been delayed three times by the government as it
scrutinises whether Vodafone's deal to purchase India's fourth-
largest mobile company Hutchison Essar conforms with foreign
investment rules.


The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) "is likely to take
a decision tomorrow," Ajay Dua, secretary of the department of
industrial policy, told reporters in the Indian capital.


Dua had said earlier this week that "we are optimistic" the deal
would be declared compliant with rules that allow foreign
ownership of up to 74 percent in a domestic telecom firm


Britain's Vodafone Group Plc agreed in February to buy Hong Kong-
based Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd's (HTIL)
67-percent controlling interest in Hutchison Essar.


Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile phone company, has said it
is directly buying 52 percent of Hutchison Essar while options
would give it another 15 percent.


HTIL holds 52 percent of Hutchison Essar directly and has an
"economic interest" in another 15 percent held by Asim Ghosh,
Hutchison Essar managing director, and Analjit Singh, chairman of
health care group Max India.


The balance of 33 percent is held by Indian steel-to-shipping
conglomerate Essar but two-thirds of its stake is in turn,
controlled through an offshore company for tax reasons,
classifying it as foreign.


The Indian media has reported Hutchison Telecom stood guarantor
for loans to Ghosh and Singh. If India decides this reported
arrangement made the minority stakes foreign owned, the 74
percent limit in Hutchison Essar would be breached. Both Singh
and Ghosh say they are not a front for HTIL.


The purchase is central to Vodafone's strategy of seeking new
markets away from the now saturated developed countries.


Word of the impending decision came as an Indian newspaper
reported that tax authorities had proposed that HTIL pay up to
two billion dollars in capital gains on the sale of its 52
percent stake in Hutchison Essar to Vodafone before the deal is
cleared.


Quoting unnamed sources, the Business Standard said the foreign
investment body was not obliged to follow the tax authorities'
idea but added that tax officials could pursue HTIL even after
the deal went through.

