

The commander of a US military prison in Iraq has been detained
by military police and is under investigation pending a possible
court martial, a military spokeswoman said Thursday.


As the latest controversy swirled around the military, bombers
struck again across Iraq, killing at least 12 people, including
nine Iraqi army soldiers.


Lieutenant Colonel William Steele will face a hearing before a
panel of officers to decide whether he should face charges,
Lieutenant Colonel Josslyn Aberle told AFP in Baghdad, without
specifying the charges.


"He has been detained and is now in Kuwait. His current status is
that he is in confinement and waiting for his Article 32 hearing.
All other details will be released soon, including the charges
against him," she told AFP.


According to the website of the US television network NBC, citing
a statement from the US army, Steele could be prosecuted for
"aiding the enemy" and having improper relationships with his
translator and another Iraqi woman.


Other charges involve the improper use of military funds,
disobeying orders, illegally holding on to classified material
and keeping pornography, it said.


The military in Iraq was not immediately able to confirm the
report.


Prior to his arrest, Steele was the commander of Camp Cropper, a
major US detention facility outside Baghdad, the smaller of two
remaining coalition prisons in Iraq which between them hold
almost 18,000 suspected insurgents.


Iraq's former dictator Saddam Hussein, who was executed on
December 30 after being convicted by an Iraqi court of crimes
against humanity, received medical treatment at the prison but
was not held there permanently.


The US military was hit by a controversy in 2003 when it was
revealed that many low-ranking soldiers abused prisoners at the
notorious Abu Ghraib prison on the outskirts of Baghdad.


Abu Ghraib became infamous when pictures of abuse at the prison,
including some showing bloodied and naked prisoners smeared with
excrement or forced to perform sexual acts, stoked anti-US
sentiment across the world.


Iraq's restive Diyala province, meanwhile, was again the rocked
by violence Thursday when a suicide bomber blew up a vehicle
against a joint Iraqi army and police checkpoint, killing nine
Iraqi soldiers and wounding 15 people, including 10 soldiers.


The bombing took place in the town of Khalis in Diyala, where
insurgents have recently stepped up attacks against security
forces, police Lieutenant Mohammed Salem told AFP by telephone
from the provincial capital of Baquba.


A security official said the explosion also destroyed six cars,
including two belonging to the army.


On Wednesday, a bomber wearing an explosive vest walked into a
police station in the town of Balad Ruz in Diyala and blew
himself up, killing four policemen and wounding 16 others.


And on Monday, nine US soldiers were killed and 20 more wounded
when two suicide truck bombers exploded their vehicles against
their patrol base in the province, in what was the deadliest
attack on US ground troops in 16 months.


In another assault on Thursday, two car bombs and a suicide
attack near the office of Kurdish Democratic Party in northern
Iraq killed three peshmerga fighters and wounded 13, party
spokesman Abdul Gani Ali told AFP.


The early morning assault took place in the town of Zammar on the
outskirts of the Kurdish province of Dohuk.


On April 23, the party's office in a northern town of Tal Isquf
was similarly attacked killing 10 people and wounding another 20.

