

Nintendo said Thursday its net profit grew by more than two-
thirds in the last fiscal year thanks to strong sales of its
next-generation Wii video game console and its handheld machines.


Nintendo, which has long dominated portable consoles, said it had
reversed a long decline in the market by introducing games that
appeal to new demographic groups such as women and the elderly.


Nintendo Co. Ltd. said its net profits grew to 174.3 billion yen
(1.47 billion dollars) in the 12 months to March, up 77.2
percent.


Operating income shot up two and a half times to 226 billion yen,
with revenue rising nearly 90 percent to 966.5 billion yen.


The Japanese company said it enjoyed strong sales both for its
double-screen handheld Nintendo DS and its next-generation Wii,
known for its innovative motion-sensitive controller.


"The video game industry is now on a growth path with strong
performances in both Nintendo DS and Wii," the Kyoto-based
company said in a statement.


The Wii is aimed at stealing a large slice of the market for home
machines from Sony Corp., whose PlayStation 3 faced repeated
delays due to technical glitches before its release.


Nintendo said the market for stationary consoles was "being
reinvigorated with the launch of the new game machines by each
hardware developer."


Analysts said the figures were even better than expected from
Nintendo, which earlier this month revised up its sales forecasts
for the past year.


"Nintendo's fiscal 2006 results were even better than the good
figures analysts had forecasted," said Hiroshi Kamide, an
electronics analyst at KBC Securities Japan.


Kamide said Nintendo had clearly shown its might in handheld game
consoles, but it was too early to say whether it would triumph in
the market for home machines, in which Microsoft's Xbox 360 is
also a contender.


"We still need at least 18 more months to see who wins the
competition of home game machines," Kamide said.


Nintendo said it sold 5.84 million units of the Wii in the five
months after the machine's heavily promoted launch in November.
About one-third of the sales were in Japan and 40 percent in the
Americas.


It forecast it would sell another 14 million Wii units around the
world in the fiscal year through March 2008.


The company credited its "Brain Age" game, billed as helping the
elderly exercise their minds to prevent senility, with
cultivating "a new video game market" first in Japan and then
overseas.


"Nintendo will continue to pursue expansion of the gaming
population with a diverse software lineup and through the
expansion of the definition of video games," it said.


Nintendo forecast that its net profit would inch up 0.4 percent
in the current financial year to 175 billion yen, with sales
growing by 17.9 percent and operating income up by 19.5 percent.


It said its plans for the current year included expanding the
Wii's software lineup to make it appeal to all members of the
family.


Nintendo said it will work to enhance Wii's functions such as
letting users surf the Internet and view weather forecasts and
news.

