

Britain's ranking diplomat in Hong Kong hailed Thursday the
city's development over the past decade since the former British
colony was handed back to China.


Consul general Stephen Bradley said he had firmly believed
Beijing would uphold its promise to allow Hong Kong to retain its
freedoms but had nevertheless expected the city's situation to
deteriorate after its return to Chinese rule in 1997.


"I thought it incredible that the Chinese government would take
Hong Kong back and then ruin it, when allowing it to work would
be so much in their own interest," he said.


"With the eye of hindsight, clearly we were right and the
merchants of doom were wrong," he said at a luncheon speech ahead
of the 10th anniversary of the handover on July 1.


"As it happens, things now look better than even an optimist like
me would have predicted, thanks to the faster-than-expected pace
of change and growth in China," he said.


Although he feared Hong Kong could be overtaken by cities such as
Beijing and Shanghai as China's leading international city,
Bradley said he believed Hong Kong still has its own competitive
advantage.


He said its future was better than before as it benefits from "a
colossal new advantage in the world's largest and most dynamic
emerging economy as its increasingly integrated hinterland."


Bradley said the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration on the
handover of Hong Kong had "worked well" although he was critical
of Beijing's meddling in the city's electoral reforms in 2004.


Since the handover, Hong Kong has been a largely autonomous
region of China and runs its own affairs under the so-called "One
Country, Two Systems" philosophy.


In 2004, in its first ever ruling on the city's electoral
process, China said it had the right to veto any electoral
reforms in the territory.


The decision provoked dismay among the public and pro-democracy
activists who have been urging Beijing to set a timetable as to
when Hong Kong people would be allowed to vote for their leader
and the entire legislature, only part of which is currently
directly elected.


"That was, frankly, a low point. But we have moved on, as we
must," he said.


Despite that, Bradley said he believed the freedoms enshrined in
the Joint Declaration were largely intact.


"The freedoms guaranteed have not been significantly threatened
or undermined," he said.


Looking ahead, Bradley said he hoped within the next decade Hong
Kong people would be able to directly elect their own chief
executive and the entire legislature.

