

Military-run Myanmar and communist North Korea agreed Thursday to
restore diplomatic relations, which were severed after Pyongyang
staged a deadly bomb attack in Yangon 24 years ago.


The two reclusive nations, both labelled as "outposts of tyranny"
by the United States, have said nothing about why they are
resuming ties now.


The following are a few key points about what are believed to be
their areas of common interest.


1983 bombing: One of the North Korean commandos who led the 1983
bomb attack in Yangon is still imprisoned in Myanmar's notorious
Insein prison.


North Korean agents tried to kill South Korea's then president
Chun Doo Hwan as he toured one of Myanmar's most sacred
landmarks, the Martyr's Mausoleum near the famed Shwedagon
pagoda.


Chun survived the blast but it killed 17 of his entourage,
including four cabinet ministers, while 17 others were wounded.
Four Myanmar officials also died.


The incident led Myanmar to cut off ties with North Korea, but
Pyongyang may want to seek the prisoner's release, analysts said.


Arms trade: Myanmar is under an arms embargo by most western
countries as well as Japan.


The military government may want to buy weapons from North Korea,
possibly through bartering for resources the impoverished
Stalinist state desperately needs.


The United States three years ago accused North Korea of seeking
to sell surface-to-surface missiles to Myanmar's military
government, although the deal apparently never happened.


Military analysts say it is more likely that Myanmar would want
to buy less advanced weaponry, such as 130 mm artillery.


Sanctions: Both Myanmar and North Korea are under international
sanctions.


North Korea is under UN sanctions over its nuclear tests, while
Myanmar is under a patchwork of sanctions by western nations and
Japan over widespread reports of rights abuses.


The two countries may think that teaming up will help them bypass
the effects of the sanctions, while giving them increased
leverage in dealing with the United States.

