

Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party party met on
Thursday to discuss tactics a day ahead of a crucial
parliamentary vote to elect the country's next president.


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP), says it will
boycott Friday's vote because it was not consulted about the
nomination of foreign minister Abdullah Gul, the ruling AKP's
candidate.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's Islamist-rooted AKP
controls 353 seats in the 550-seat parliament, enough to get its
candidate elected in the later stages of the voting, but not in
Friday's first round, nor the second round scheduled for May 2.


The CHP also said it would challenge the vote before the
Constitutional Court if fewer than 367 lawmakers -- the two-
thirds majority required to elect the president in the first
round -- show up in parliament Friday.


If the Constitutional Court annuls the vote, general elections
scheduled for November 4 could be brought forward.


In a bid to avoid any challenge, Gul has been meeting independent
lawmakers and the leaders of minor opposition parties to enlist
their support.


The two centre-right parties -- the Motherland Party (ANAP) and
the True Path Party (DYP) -- control 24 seats between them and
their support is crucial.


After consultations late Wednesday the two parties, citing
increased political tensions, called on the government to
postpone the presidential vote and call for early parliamentary
elections.


"We believe the most rational thing to do is to call general
elections at once and let the new parliament choose the
president," ANAP leader Erkan Mumcu told a press conference late
Wednesday.


ANAP and the DYP said they would wait for the government's
response before announcing their decision Thursday on whether to
attend the vote.


Prime Minister Erdogan has already rejected the call for early
elections.


"Early elections are not the solution. It may not be possible to
gather 367 lawmakers in parliament even after an early election.
This is just making a mockery of the system," he was quoted by
newspapers as saying late Wednesday.


The secular establishment, which includes Turkey's powerful army,
suspects the AKP of harbouring a secret Islamist agenda and is
suspicious of the party's assertions that it has disawoved its
radical Muslim past.


They are worried that the party will have a free hand to
implement its Islamist policies and undermine the separation of
state and religion if it gets the country's top post.


More than 500,000 people -- up to 1.5 million, according to some
estimates -- rallied in Ankara on April 14 in defence of the
country's secular system and a similar demonstration is planned
in Istanbul on Sunday.


In remarks published Thursday, Gul, a moderate and widely
respected figure, tried to dispel doubts over his Islamist
background and said he would embrace all sections of society.


"Trust me. I will not let you down," Gul told the liberal daily
Milliyet. "I am attached to the principles of a secular and
democratic state.


"I will be the president of all citizens, no matter what their
convictions are," he added.


Although the president's duties are largely ceremonial, he or she
is responsible for signing government bills into law and naming
key officials.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunchly secular former
judge whose term ends on May 16, often clashed with the AKP
government, blocking attempts to criminalise adultery and
restrict places that serve alcohol to special zones.

