

World oil prices slid Thursday on reports that Iran and the EU
have made progress in talks aimed at settling a nuclear dispute
which has harmed relations between the key crude producer and
West.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil exporter and traders fear
the dispute over the country's nuclear programme could at some
point prompt the Islamic Republic to cut crude exports.


In London on Thursday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for
June delivery fell 17 cents to 68.40 dollars per barrel in
electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, shed 26 cents to 65.58 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


Price losses were limited, however, by ongoing market concerns
over weak American gasoline or petrol reserves heading into the
peak-demand season for motor fuel, when the driving season starts
next month in the United States.


"Crude futures were a little lower today in both London and New
York, easing off after Iran's chief negotiator hinted that some
common ground has been found between the EU and Iran," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


"The two parties are due to meet again in two weeks and there
were suggestions that the differences between them are narrowing
and this reduced some of the geopolitical risk premium on oil
prices."


Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said Thursday that talks with a
senior EU official had made progress towards a "united view" on
ending the crisis over Iran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment.


"I think in some areas we are approaching a united view and that
is to say the best approach is to have the issue settled through
negotiation," Larijani told journalists after meeting in Ankara
for a second day with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


But Davies sounded a cautious note over the latest developments.


"We would argue that we have seen this sort of situation time and
time again and that it remains unlikely that Iran will concede to
the West's demands and give up nuclear enrichment," the analyst
warned.


The talks were the first face-to-face meetings between Larijani
and Solana, who represents the five permanent UN Security Council
members plus Germany, since the council imposed a second round of
limited sanctions on Iran in March to punish its continuing
enrichment work.


Western nations fear that Iran's uranium enrichment operations
could be diverted to make a nuclear weapon. But Iran contends
that the nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes.


Meanwhile, traders said oil prices were underpinned by weak US
gasoline stocks ahead of the driving season when many Americans
hit the roads for their summer vacations.


The US Department of Energy had said Wednesday that reserves sank
by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20.


That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for gasoline
inventories and compared with market expectations for a lighter
fall of just 500,000 barrels.

