

Swedish telecommunications equipment group Ericsson said on
Thursday that strong growth and takeovers put it on track for
leadership as a provider of the latest Internet protocol
networks.


The group said it had raised net first-quarter profits by 26.0
percent with a boost from a joint venture with Sony to make
mobile phones.


Net profit was 5.8 billion kronor (633 million euros) and chief
executive Carl- Henric Svanberg said the first quarter had been
marked by "solid performance and market share gains in a stable
growth environment."


The net operating margin, which had fallen in the first quarter
of last year, surged by 19.3 percent and operating profit shot up
by 24.2 percent to 8.2 billion kronor.


Svanberg also said: "Fixed and mobile data traffic accelerates
and we have seen a doubling of traffic in mobile broadband
networks over the last six months."


The group had completed the purchase of US company Redback, a
supplier of high- speed networks, and of Norwegian company
Tandberg Television.


These acquisitions strengthened Ericsson's strategy of helping
telephone operators to reduce their costs and to upgrade their
networks to carry video pictures, mobile services and Internet
connections which were activities showing strong growth.


These purchases, together with the acquisition in 2005 of British
company Marconi meant that Ericsson was now in a position to head
for "leadership in next-generation IP (Internet protocol)
networks", he said.


Ericsson said that in its main market, for the latest mobile
phone equipment, it was maintaining a forecast for growth of
5.0-9.0 percent.


The price of shares in the company was showing an early loss of
0.75 percent to 26.30 kroner.


Sales growth had been driven mainly by activities in western
Europe where sales had risen by nine percent, and by "large
turnkey projects in central and eastern European, the Middle
East, Africa and Asia Pacific".


Overall sales rose by 7.9 percent on a 12-month basis to 42.2
billion kroner, exceeding a figure of 41.9 billion kroner broadly
expected by analysts.


Ericsson said that it had again benefited from record results
from a joint venture created with Japanese company Sony to make
mobile phones.


This business, Sony Ericsson, reported on April 20 that it had
doubled net profit in the first quarter to 254 million euros from
109 million euros in the first quarter of last year.


Overall, sales by the network division had risen by 5.0 percent,
professional services by 15 percent and multimedia activities by
19 percent.

