

An Indian MP arrested in an alleged people smuggling plot was
Thursday barred from attending parliament.


Babubhai Katara was told to stay away by the speaker of the
country's lower house as it assembled for the budget session
following a recess.


Parliament "expresses its firm determination to take all
necessary action so that the dignity of the House is not
tarnished," speaker Somnath Chatterjee said in a statement,
adding the house condemned the alleged "conduct of the member."


Chatterjee was referring to Karata's arrest last week at New
Delhi's Indira Gandhi international airport on accusations of
trying to smuggle a woman and a teenage boy to Canada using his
family's passports.


Airport security personnel stopped Katara, of the main opposition
Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), during a last-
minute check when they discovered that his wife and son's
passport photographs did not match the faces of the woman and
teenager accompanying him.


Katara, who remains in custody, was told not to attend parliament
until the matter is discussed by political parties and a decision
taken "as to how such matters may be dealt with in future so the
prestige of this great institution is upheld."


Following Katara's arrest, three more men, including the MP's
assistant Sundarlal Yadav, have been detained by police as
investigators widened their probe, questioning four more
lawmakers on Tuesday.


Of the four MPs, three are from the Bahujan Samaj Party, a
regional party that represents lower castes in India, while the
fourth belongs to Katara's  BJP.


The scandal is the latest to embroil the country's political
classes. A number of politicians face criminal charges but their
cases have still to be resolved under India's slow-moving justice
system.


Last year, a cabinet minister was sentenced to life for
kidnapping and murdering an aide who was blackmailing the
minister over a political scandal.


A 2004 study by an independent watchdog found nearly one quarter
of the 540-plus representatives in the lower house faced criminal
charges, including murder and rape.

