

Workers were racing Thursday to repair a massive wall holding
back sludge spewing from Indonesia's "mud volcano" that has
already flooded hundreds of homes, an official said.


Cracks started to appear in the man-made embankment around the
disaster area in east Java on Wednesday, prompting authorities to
declare the area off limits.


Bambang Suryadi, from the company charged with monitoring the
site, said a 300-metre exclusion zone was thrown up only as a
precaution, saying the situation was not severe.


"We are already working to repair the cracks, there does not
appear to be any problem," said Suryadi from Pt Fergaco.


But state Antara news agency reported the cracks had sparked
panic among workers charged with reinforcing the embankment.


It was built months after the volcano started spewing sludge last
May, in an attempt to reduce the disastrous impact on surrounding
areas.


The flow has damaged roads and swamped farms, factories and
homes, displacing 15,000 residents and causing millions of
dollars worth of damage.


Some 600 hectares (1,500 acres) have been inundated.


The volcano, near Indonesia's second-largest city of Surabaya,
has been blamed on exploratory gas drilling which pierced a layer
of strata under pressure several thousand metres deep.


The repairs come as engineers worked on a device to determine if
efforts to halt the damage have had any success.


Engineer Satria Bijaksana said although the volcano was still
spewing mud, it would determine if hundreds of concrete balls
dropped into its funnel had started to ease the flow.


Bijaksana said the new device, still being designed, would take a
series of measurements from inside the funnel.


The dropping of the balls was halted after the government
appointed an agency this month to deal with the volcano and
assess its socio-economic impact, he said.


"We have been asked by the new team, to propose a device to
measure various aspects, such as the profile of the main vent,
the depth the balls have reached, and the pressure at that
point," Bijaksana told AFP.


"Only after we have that device and after measurements are made
can we decide on the next steps (to take). They may include many
more concrete balls being dropped but we cannot say yet," he
said.


A design must be submitted to the government-backed agency by the
end of the week.


Experts have already dropped hundreds of chains, each comprising
four concrete balls, into the crater, aiming to narrow the
funnel, obstruct the sludge and curb the flow.


Experts are unsure how long the crater will spew mud if left
unchecked, with some suggesting it could be years.

