

Bangladesh's emergency government backtracked on plans to exile
two feuding former prime ministers but on Thursday appeared to
threaten the women with corruption charges if they stayed in the
country.


The military-backed government late on Wednesday lifted a ban on
Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed returning from London.


It also said there were no restrictions on the movements of
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) leader Khaleda Zia, after
earlier trying to send her into exile in Saudi Arabia.


"The government says clearly that there is no pressure on Khaleda
Zia to go abroad and there have been no restrictions on her
movements," said an official statement, despite Zia's virtual
house arrest over recent weeks.


The interim administration had been trying to exile the two
bitter rivals as part of a drive to clean up Bangladesh's
notoriously corrupt politics.


It has not elaborated on its statements as to why the decision
was taken to abandon the plans.


However, bank officials said Thursday they had been ordered to
hand over information on the two women's financial affairs.


Bangladesh Bank was told late on Wednesday to submit account
details for Zia and Sheikh Hasina, a senior bank official told
AFP.


The central bank -- passing on instructions from the government
-- also sought account details of family members of the two
leaders, he added.


On Wednesday a government minister, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said Zia could face corruption charges if she remained
in Bangladesh.


Murder and extortion allegations have already been filed against
Sheikh Hasina. She was blocked from boarding a flight from London
to Dhaka on Sunday.


Speaking by telephone from London late on Wednesday, Sheikh
Hasina told the private ATN Bangla television channel: "I will
return as soon as possible. I want to be with my people."


The BNP also welcomed the government's statement on Zia.


"I thank the government and hope the people's constitutional
rights will be protected during the present caretaker
government's rule," secretary general Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan told
reporters.


Meanwhile, the leading independent Daily Star newspaper condemned
the plans to exile the two women as "short-sighted" and
"confusing."


"The credibility of the government has taken a tumble on the
issue," it said in an editorial, adding that the government
should now complete its reforms and hold elections at the
earliest opportunity.


"The only durable solution to our problems can come through
transfer of power to an elected government, but one that comes
through a genuinely free and fair election," the newspaper said.


The new government has pledged to hold elections by the end of
2008 after implementing far-reaching reforms to get democracy
back on track.


It had earlier been reported that Zia agreed to go into exile in
exchange for leniency for her two sons who face corruption
allegations. Her elder son Tareque is among scores of prominent
figures who have been detained since the emergency was imposed on
January 11.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, who represent rival political dynasties,
have held power alternately since 1991.


Both women are accused of misrule that culminated in January's
political crisis following months of violence.


The Awami League had earlier accused the BNP of seeking to rig
elections which had been scheduled for January 22.

