

A landmark joint visit to a 300-year-old iconic Irish battlefield
is planned for next month by Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and the
future Northern Ireland first minister Ian Paisley.


In a statement Thursday, Ahern said firebrand Protestant minister
Paisley, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader, had accepted
an invitation to visit the Battle of Boyne site north of Dublin
on May 11.


Three days earlier in Belfast, Paisley is due to become first
minister of a power-sharing executive with Catholic rivals Sinn
Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army.


Earlier this month, Paisley and Ahern signalled a new cross-
border relationship at a meeting in Dublin with their first
public handshake.


Ahern said he was looking forward to welcoming Paisley to the
County Meath site on the River Boyne and reviewing with him the
work planned "for this important place in our shared history."


"I believe that this site can become a valuable and welcome
expression of the new relationship that we are building on this
island, a relationship that is respectful of its past and all its
traditions," Ahern added.


For generations "Remember 1690" has been a catch-cry of
Protestant loyalists in Northern Ireland as it marks the 1690
defeat of the deposed Catholic king James II by the Protestant
king William III of Orange.


William, with an army of 36,000 English, Scots, Danes, Germans
and Huguenots defeated James, who had a 25,000 strong force of
mainly French and Irish.


The Protestant Orange Order celebrates the battle every year on
July 12 with parades in British-governed Northern Ireland.


Last year, during negotiations on the peace process in St Andrews
in Scotland, Ahern presented Paisley and his wife with a bowl
carved from a walnut tree from the Boyne site to mark their 50th
wedding anniversary.


The Irish government has been refurbishing the battlefield as
part of the Northern Ireland peace process.


The project is designed to promote an "inclusive approach" to
Irish cultural heritage and a better understanding of Unionist
traditions.

