

Ford Motor Co. raced ahead of expectations in the first quarter
as the struggling auto giant Thursday posted a narrower loss of
282 million dollars.


That compared with a loss of 1.4 billion dollars in the same
period a year ago, and was well ahead of market expectations as
the company progressed with a painful reorganization.


The loss equated to nine cents a share excluding one-time costs,
much better than the deficit of 60 cents per share expected on
Wall Street.


Revenues for the January-March quarter increased five percent to
43 billion dollars, also better than market forecasts.


The company said its Europe, South America and Mazda divisions
all were profitable and that cost savings in North America were
starting to help the results.


"We are making progress on executing the four priorities of our
plan -- restructuring the company, accelerating product
development, funding our plan and working effectively as one
team," said chief executive Alan Mulally.


"I am pleased that the basics of our business are improving, but
we still have a lot of work to do."


The company said cost cuts saved 500 million dollars in the
quarter, bringing the total amount of annualized savings to 1.9
billion dollars since the reorganization plan was announced last
year.


Ford wants to cut five billion dollars from annual operating
costs by 2008, in a plan that features the elimination of 44,000
jobs and closing a number of North American plants.


Despite the improving results overall, Ford's North America
automotive operations saw its loss rise to 614 million dollars
compared with 442 million a year earlier.


This resulted from "unfavorable volume and mix, partially offset
by cost reductions," Ford said.  Revenue was 18.2 billion
dollars, down from 19.8 billion for the same period a year ago.


The European division showed an operating profit of 219 million
dollars, up from 65 million a year ago as revenues increased.


The division for Asia Pacific and Africa swung to a loss of 26
million dollars amid "adverse currency exchange and unfavorable
volume and mix," according to the company.


Ford's Premier Automotive Group, which includes Jaguar and Volvo,
reported a record profit of 402 million dollars on higher
revenues. Ford reached an agreement in the quarter to sell the
Aston Martin nameplate.

