

Human rights campaigners cautioned Thursday that an agreement by
Myanmar and North Korea to restore diplomatic relations must not
lead to further repression in their secretive nations.


Kay Seok, Seoul-based researcher for the Asia division of Human
Rights Watch, expressed fears for the future of North Korean
refugees fleeing via Myanmar.


The countries "are among the most repressive states in the
world," she told AFP.


She said there was particular concern about the possible effect
on those refugees who enter Myanmar from China in the hope of
travelling on to another country and eventual settlement in South
Korea.


"If the Burmese (Myanmar) government agrees to arrest and
repatriate them to North Korea, that would be a terrible thing --
leaving the country without permission carries heavy punishment,"
she added.


Military-run Myanmar and communist North Korea, two of the
world's most secretive nations, agreed earlier Thursday in Yangon
to restore diplomatic relations after more than two decades of
severed ties.


South Korea's foreign ministry had no immediate comment on the
move.


Tens of thousands of people have fled the North to China in
recent years, with most travelling on to Southeast Asia hoping
eventually to reach Seoul or other destinations.


In a report last October, the International Crisis Group said
those who are caught by Myanmar authorities faced up to one year
in jail, but none had been sent back to China -- which has a
much-criticised policy of returning them all to their homeland
where they face prison and sometimes torture.


Human Rights Watch, in a report last month, said North Korea has
toughened its punishments for people caught trying to flee --
including imposing longer prison terms during which inmates face
beatings and starvation.


Takehiko Tsukushi, chief secretary of the Foundation for Human
Rights in Asia, a Tokyo-based public awareness group, also voiced
concern.


"We hope that the tie-up of the two countries, both criticised
for their human rights records, will not stall any progress in
improving human rights conditions," he said in Tokyo.


"We'd rather wish that the two countries expand their relations
with the international community and learn more about what the
world is thinking regarding human rights standards."

