

Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the presidential candidate of
Turkey's Islamist- rooted ruling party, promised to address
concerns that Turkey's secular system is under threat, in remarks
published Thursday.


"Trust me. I will not let you down," Gul said in an interview
with the liberal daily Milliyet. "I am attached to the principles
of a secular and democratic state... in essence, to use that
recently popular phrase."


Gul was referring to a subtle warning earlier this month by the
chief of the influential army, Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, calling for
the new president to be committed to secularism "not in words but
in essence."


Secularist Turks suspect Gul's Justice and Development Party
(AKP) of harbouring Islamist ambitions, although it has disowned
its roots in a now-banned Islamist party and pledged commitment
to Turkey's fiercely guarded secular system.


More than 500,000 people -- up to 1.5 million according to some
estimates -- gathered in Ankara on April 14 in an unprecedented
pro-secular rally.


"I put myself in the place of those people at the demonstration,"
Gul told Milliyet. "I tried to understand them.


"If they have any doubts, concerns or fears, it is my duty to
dispel them," he said. "This will be my approach to my duty if I
am elected president. I will be the president of all citizens, no
matter what their convictions are."


Gul is a shoo-in for the presidency thanks to the comfortable
majority the AKP holds in parliament, where the president is
elected. The first round of voting is scheduled for Friday.


Opposition parties have not fielded candidates, but legal action
threatened by the main opposition to have the vote annulled over
technicalities could emerge as a major obstacle to his
presidency.


Gul, as well as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan belonged to
the Welfare Party of Turkey's first Islamist prime minister
Necmettin Erbakan, which was forced from power in 1997 and banned
for anti-secular activities in 1998.


They have since notably moderated their policies, but some
government moves have kept suspicions alive, such as attempts to
make adultery a jailable offence, isolate alcohol-serving
establishments in special zones outside urban centres and
encourage Koranic courses.

