

South Korea's conservative opposition party, which leads in
opinion polls for December's presidential election, has suffered
a marked setback in parliamentary by-elections.


The Grand National Party (GNP) won only one of three seats in
Wednesday's polls, according to results released early Thursday.


The outcome shows the race to succeed President Roh Moo-Hyun is
still open, analysts said.


The GNP secured Hwaseong city near Seoul but lost in Muan-Shinan
district in South Jeolla province, where Kim Hong-Up -- a son of
ex-president Kim Dae-Jung -- won for the Democratic Party.


The GNP also lost in the central city of Daejeon to the minor
centrist People First Party, as well as losing five out of six
contests for mayors and county chiefs.


With almost eight months to go to the presidential poll, opinion
polls show the two front-runners are both from the GNP.


Lee Myung-Bak, a former Seoul mayor, has some 40 percent support
in most polls, followed by Park Geun-Hye, daughter of former
president Park Chung-Hee, with 20 percent.


But Wednesday's results ended the GNP's winning streak in by-
elections that started in 2005.


"We take this with our humble heart. We'll take it as a lesson
from the people and we'll move forward from here to bring regime
change," its chairman Kang Jae- Sup was quoted by as saying by
the Yonhap news agency.


Kang Chang-Hee, a member of the party's supreme council, said the
polls were a showdown between the GNP and anti-GNP forces "and we
suffered a crushing defeat."


The left-leaning, pro-government Uri party lost in Hwaseong but
did not stand in the other two seats, to give minor parties a
chance.


It said the results bolstered its efforts to merge with small
parties to challenge the GNP in December.


"Now that a bridgehead for a grand alliance has been founded, the
alliance drive for a new party will get a larger boost," a Uri
spokesperson said.


Indications before the December vote "used to point to the GNP
but it has begun moving toward the middle point," Lim Seong-Ho, a
political science professor at Kyunghee University, told AFP.


"The vote results will also give impetus to the movement to merge
non-GNP parties," he said.


When the election results are confirmed, the GNP will have 128
parliamentary seats, the Democratic Party 12 and the People First
Party six.


Uri, formerly the party of President Roh, holds 108 seats. It
lost its status as the majority party when 32 lawmakers defected
this year.


The results "were seen as a public call for us to join with
peace-oriented reformist forces," Uri party chairman Chung Se-
Kyun told reporters.

