

US rapper and hip-hop icon Snoop Dogg has been barred entry into
Australia because he is not "the sort of bloke we want in this
country", the immigration minister said Thursday.


The 35-year-old -- real name Calvin Broadus -- had been due to
attend the MTV Australian Video Music Awards this weekend.


But he fails the character test required to enter Australia and
so his visa was cancelled, Immigration Minister Kevin Andrews
said.


"He has a whole string of convictions and just two weeks ago he
was convicted of a number of charges again, sentenced to three
years jail, two on another, with five years probation and a
suspended sentence," Andrews said.


"He has been denied entry into the United Kingdom because he was
caught with others causing affray at Heathrow Airport," the
minister told Australian radio.


"He doesn't seem the sort of bloke we want in this country."


Andrews said Snoop Dogg's reputed gang ties were also taken into
account.


"This man has been a member of a Los Angeles gang -- and is still
associated with it apparently -- that's been involved in murder,
robberies and drug dealing in the LA area," he said.


Australia, a former penal colony which was largely populated by
criminals in the early days of European settlement, has adopted
tough immigration controls under conservative Prime Minister John
Howard.


MTV Australia managing director Dave Sibley said the company
would fight the ban and would provide immigration officials with
material in support of the rapper's bid to come to Australia.


"We're still hopeful we'll be able to crack this so Snoop will be
able to perform at the awards," he said.


"If anyone is the most disappointed about this it would be Snoop,
he loves coming out here," said Sibley. "It's not over yet."


A spokeswoman for Andrews said Snoop Dogg was on a tight leash
when allowed into Australia in February to perform in the Good
Vibrations Festival in Sydney and Melbourne.


"Last time Mr Broadus came out here he had charges pending and,
working on the basis that someone is innocent until proven
guilty, he was allowed to enter the country," the spokeswoman
said.


"He was warned that if he had any further convictions he would
not be looked upon favourably. Now he has been found guilty of
those charges."


The rapper has had a number of brushes with the law since being
tried and acquitted for murder in 1993, the year he soared to
fame with his debut album "Doggystyle."


He was first convicted of felony drug charges in 1990, making it
illegal to own a firearm, and earlier this month escaped a prison
term after pleading no contest to two charges of illegally
possessing a gun and marijuana.


Last month he was arrested in Sweden for suspected drug use.

