

China's Caribbean ally St Lucia is prepared to switch recognition
to Taipei, Taiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang said in the latest round
of diplomatic sparring with Beijing.


But leading politicians Thursday criticised Su as jeopardising
the chances of success with his premature announcement.


"The latest good news we obtained is St Lucia's foreign minister
just told his parliament today (Wednesday) that the St Lucia
government was to establish diplomatic relationship with Taiwan,"
an elated Su told a group of supporters late Wednesday.


"Therefore, the number of Taiwan's diplomatic allies will
increase to 25."


Currently, 24 countries -- largely tiny ones from Africa, Latin
America and the South Pacific -- recognise Taiwan which Beijing
regards as part of its territory awaiting reunification by force
if necessary.


Vice President Annette Lu, however, sharply criticised Su for
leaking news of the apparent diplomatic victory before it was
finalised.


"The constitution stipulates that the president is the top
decision maker in diplomacy, and according to international
precedents, until the agreement on the establishment of
diplomatic ties is finalised, no one should ever leak such
information in advance," Lu said.


Su and Lu are competing for the ruling Democratic Progressive
Party's nomination for the 2008 presidential race.


Lu accused Su of making the premature announcement in an attempt
to drum up support in the election campaign.


The opposition also lambasted Su, warning that his "big mouth"
might alert rival China and prompt it to take countermeasures.


"Su would need to step down to shoulder responsibility if the
desired official relationship with St Lucia is shot down by
Beijing," said legislator Hsu Shao- ping from the opposition
Kuomintang (KMT).


Foreign ministry spokesman David Wang said he hoped details of
the official ties could be worked out within a month.


Foreign minister James Huang last month met St Lucia's Prime
Minister John Compton and members of his cabinet during a low-
profile trip to the Caribbean.


Taiwan and St Lucia opened diplomatic relations in 1984 when
Compton was prime minister. Taipei severed ties in 1997 when
prime minister Kenny Anthony switched recognition to Beijing.
Compton was elected late last year.


Observers say a number of countries have gained benefits using
the lingering diplomatic tug-of-war between Taipei and Beijing as
a leverage.


Taiwan and China, which split in 1949 at the end of a civil war,
have accused each other of using "chequebook diplomacy" to lure
the other's allies.

