

Dutch banking group ABN Amro, at the centre of a huge European
takeover battle, signalled on Thursday a shift in its stance over
the sale of a key US asset already included in a deal with
Barclays.


ABN Amro had agreed to sell the US asset, LaSalle bank, to Bank
of America for 21 billion dollars (15.4 billion euros) as part of
an agreement for British bank Barclays to buy the Dutch group.


The US sale is seen by analysts as a so-called "poison pill" to
deter three European banks led by Royal Bank of Scotland from
launching a counter bid for ABN Amro, which they did on Wednesday
with an offer of 72 billion euros, by far the biggest in any
banking takeover.


ABN Amro then signalled a shift in its position, saying Bank of
America would have to match any improved offer for LaSalle, but
Bank of America urged the Dutch group to honour the agreement
even if the deal with Barclays fell through.


But on Thursday ABN Amro went further, saying: "ABN AMRO and its
advisers are actively engaged in soliciting alternative bids from
the largest US and international banks that may have an interest
in LaSalle."


However, analysts said the RBS-led consortium wants to keep its
hands on the Dutch group's key US asset and would oppose a sale
if it won control of ABN Amro.


The Dutch shareholders' association VEB threatened on Wednesday
to take legal action against ABN Amro unless shareholders were
allowed to vote on the sale of LaSalle Bank at ABN's general
assembly on Thursday.


The consortium comprising Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch-Belgian group Fortis have proposed a 72
-billion-euro takeover for ABN Amro priced at 39 euros per share.
The offer tops the rival bid by British bank Barclays that has
been accepted by ABN Amro management.


Barclays has offered 36.25 euros per share.


Royal Bank of Scotland is particularly interested in LaSalle
Bank, some analysts believe.


Other parties interested by LaSalle have until May 6 to come
forward with their offers, ABN said, after which Bank of America
has five days to equal and carry off the offer.


If ABN Amro breaches its contract it will have to pay Bank of
America up to 200 million dollars in compensation.


A general assembly of ABN Amro shareholders was due to meet at
1200 GMT to study developments, but was not expected to take a
decision on the offers, nor on the sale of LaSalle.

