

British army chiefs are wrangling over whether to send Prince
Harry to Iraq, the Ministry of Defence said Thursday, amid one of
the bloodiest months for British forces in Iraq.


The MoD said the 22-year-old's impending deployment was under
"constant consideration," following a newspaper report that army
bosses had launched a late review of the possible implications.


The Sun newspaper said the second lieutenant could be stopped
from being sent to southern Iraq because insurgents could target
him, putting his troops in extra danger.


Such a decision would likely infuriate the prince, third in line
to the British throne, who has reportedly threatened to quit the
army if he was held back from front line duty.


"Prince Harry's deployment to Iraq is, as we've always said,
under constant consideration," said an MoD spokeswoman.


"It is still our intent that Prince Harry will deploy as a troop
leader."


April has been one of the deadliest months for British forces in
Iraq since the US-led invasion of March 2003. Some 11 lives have
been lost, including a corporal doing Harry's armoured
reconnaissance troop leader job.


Harry is known as Cornet Wales in the Blues and Royals regiment
of the Household Cavalry, in which he is responsible for a troop
of 11 soldiers and four Scimitar reconnaissance vehicles.


The MoD confirmed in February that Harry would be deployed to
Iraq. His six- month tour was expected to start in May.


The Sun said the Army was reconsidering his deployment.


"It's very complicated," a source told the newspaper.


"No one wants to gift a PR victory to the insurgents by
withdrawing him.


"But there is a groundswell of opinion across senior ranks now
that to allow Harry to serve in the open with his men will lead
to an inevitable disaster."


The Observer newspaper said Sunday that Iraqi militia groups had
drawn up detailed plans to seize Harry as a hostage, citing
militants.


An MoD spokesman told the weekly: "The bad guys know that he's
coming and we expect that they will consider him a high-profile
scalp."


In an interview to mark his 21st birthday, Harry said: "There's
no way I'm going to put myself through Sandhurst (the elite
military academy) and then sit on my arse back home while my boys
are out fighting for their country."


The Sun said: "As the queen's grandson, he would have been a red
rag to extremists seeking a place in paradise."


For the sake of his troops "as well as his, it is right to keep
him out of the firing line."


Harry would become the first British royal to see active service
since his uncle Prince Andrew flew helicopters in the 1982
Falklands War with Argentina.


A BBC radio text message poll found people were hugely in favour
of Harry being allowed to deploy.

