

Environmental group Greenpeace on Thursday urged developing Asian
nations to power their growing economies with renewable energy
rather than polluting fossil fuels.


The group released its proposal, which it says can avert
disastrous climate change without affecting Asia's economic
growth, ahead of a meeting of the UN's top climate change
scientists in Bangkok next week.


Greenpeace called on governments in the region to phase out
fossil fuel subsidies, establish legally-binding targets for
renewable energy and set energy efficiency standards for consumer
appliances and the transport sector.


"We have to ensure that the developing countries protect their
economic development interests without exacerbating the problems
of climate change," said Sven Taske, Greenpeace International's
energy expert.


"It is the populations of these developing countries that are
most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change," he added.


A report by Greenpeace and the European Renewable Energy Council
said that Asia can be weaned from dirty energy without sparking
an economic downturn.


"We have not reached our lower CO2 (carbon dioxide) targets by
cutting economic growth, we have achieved them from energy
efficiency," said Taske.


If the guidelines in the report are followed, emissions of carbon
dioxide would be cut by 50 percent by 2050, and renewable sources
would deliver half the world's energy by the same date, he said.


Carbon dioxide, released when fossil fuels are burned, is one of
the greenhouse gases blamed for global warming.


Southeast Asia was one of the few regions that would see
immediate cost benefits by turning away from fossil fuels, as
most were imported, Taske said.


Amnuay Thongsathit, an alternative energy expert from Thailand's
Ministry of Energy, admitted the kingdom had not pursued
renewable energy with enough commitment.


"In the past, we tended to look at economic development and the
benefits too much," he said. "But we have to achieve a better
balance."


Greenpeace's plan was presented in the lead up to a session of
the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which opens
Monday in Bangkok with the aim of putting together a report on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

