

Up to 400,000 people may have fled fighting in Somalia's capital
Mogadishu, the UN's humanitarian chief said Thursday, warning
that aid had reached less than a fifth of the refugees.


The United Nations refugee agency said last Friday that an
estimated 321,000 Somalis had fled Mogadishu since the beginning
of February, based on monitoring by local agencies.


"I think these estimates are rising rapidly... We're probably
nearer 340,000 or 350,000 now, I've even seen a figure of
400,000," UN Undersecretary General for Humanitarian Affairs John
Holmes told journalists.


"The latest estimate was that we probably had access to around
60,000 of those who fled," he added, warning that the situation
was "very critical".


The United Nations wants to deliver relief assistance to some one
million people in Somalia, including the legacy from previous
crises, drought or flooding.


Aid agencies have reported columns of people and chaotic scenes
on roads out of the capital, rising illness and a shortage of
food and water for the displaced.


But aid is barely trickling through due to insecurity and
blockages mainly attributed to the Somali government.


Civilians left in Mogadishu braved unrelenting shelling and
machinegun fire as Ethiopians forces and Islamist guerrillas
battled for the ninth consecutive day, setting buildings ablaze.


More than one-third of Mogadishu's population has now fled and
the exact number of casualties inside the city is unknown.


Holmes reiterated calls for a ceasefire there, warning that the
situation could only worsen if the fighting carried on with its
current intensity.


"We face a very critical and dangerous situation where the rules
of international humanitarian law are being flouted by all sides,
I think, in Mogadishu," Holmes said.


The United Nations is expecting to test a pledge from the Somali
government not to block relief operations by flying supplies into
airstrips in the region "in the next day or two," he added.


Holmes said the UN had also been talking with the Ethiopians.


"All the factions, including the Ethiopian forces there, are
equally guilty of indiscriminate use of violence in a civilian
area which is having a dramatic effect in terms of death,
injuries and displacement," he said in response to a question
about Ethiopia's role.


"I certainly don't except them from what is happening."


Ethiopia on Thursday rejected allegations from human rights
groups that its troops were targeting civilians, saying they had
"taken every possible precaution to avoid or minimize civilian
loss of life and civilian casualties."

