

The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said Thursday it had
approved the route of next year's Beijing Olympic torch relay,
which Games organisers plan to disclose later in the day.


IOC decision makers meeting here this week gave their stamp of
approval to the proposed route, which Chinese officials have said
will include  controversial legs through Tibet and Taiwan, said
IOC spokeswoman Giselle Davies.


"A number of cities across the world will be invited to
participate and the validation was given by the executive board,"
Davies told a press briefing.


She declined to give further details, adding only that Beijing
Olympic organisers would reveal details about the proposed route
at a televised ceremony expected to start around 8:00 pm (1200
GMT).


Chinese officials said this week that the route would scale Mount
Everest, the world's highest peak, and pass through Tibet as well
as China's political rival Taiwan.


Taiwan, a self-ruled island claimed by China, said Thursday it
would like to host a leg of the relay but maintained that its
"national interest must be upheld."


Liu Teh-hsun, deputy chairman of Taiwan's China policy decision-
making body, Mainland Affairs Council, said Beijing must not
include the island on China's domestic relay route.


Such an arrangement would imply that Taiwan is part of China, Liu
said.


Taiwanese authorities have demanded that the torch relay for the
2008 Games must arrive and depart the island via a third country,
a decision aimed to highlight Taiwan's sovereignty independent of
China.


China and Taiwan split in 1949 at the end of a civil war. China
considers the wealthy, democratically ruled island a renegade
province to be retaken by force if necessary.


A senior IOC official said that the proposed route was not set in
stone and that changes could be expected before the actual relay
launch some two or three months prior to the start of the August
2008 Games.


Protesters have already called for China to abandon plans to
scale Mount Everest and cross Tibet with the torch.


Four Americans were detained at Mount Everest base camp on
Wednesday after unfurling banners demanding a "free Tibet" and
protesting plans to take the Olympic torch to the top of the
mountain ahead of the 2008 Games.

