

A bomb exploded near a provincial government headquarters in
eastern Afghanistan Thursday, killing a passer-by, while three
more civilians died in attacks blamed on Taliban insurgents.


A Taliban spokesman meanwhile refused to comment on a deadline of
Friday to meet demands for the release of two French aid workers
captured with three Afghans three weeks ago, but said they were
"in good health."


The blast in the town of Mihtarlam, about 100 kilometres (60
miles) from Kabul, was outside the offices of the Laghman
provincial government and "a passer-by was martyred as a result,"
said a provincial spokesman.


Laghman was hit by two major bombings in the past week that
together killed eight employees of the intelligence services.


Another civilian man was killed and one wounded overnight when
around 20 rockets were fired into Barmal province from
neighbouring Pakistan, where the Taliban and other Islamist
extremists have training grounds, officials said.


The rockets appeared to have been targeted at a base of NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) but instead hit a
civilian house, provincial officials said.


Elsewhere in the same province, armed men shot dead two other
civilians, the officials said. Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi
said the men were spies.


The Taliban, ousted from government in late 2001, have killed
several people they have accused of spying for the foreign forces
that are in Afghanistan to help the government bring the troubled
land under control.


They are holding two French nationals who were kidnapped in
southern Afghanistan April 3.


A statement posted on the Taliban website on April 20 said
France's 1,000 troops with ISAF must be withdrawn and Kabul must
release Taliban prisoners within a week for the release of the
pair.


"Without this, the position of Islamic Emirate (the Taliban)
about foreign prisoners was clear to the world and (will) soon be
applied," it said.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Thursday he could not
comment on the deadline.


The French man and woman working for Terre d'Enfance (A World For
Our Children) were "in good health, in good condition," he said.


"There has been no particular development of the case. There has
been no major direct or indirect negotiations."


The Taliban made similar demands ahead of the release of the
kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo last month.


The reporter was freed in exchange for five Taliban prisoners in
a deal which met with widespread outrage. His driver and his
interpreter were beheaded.


After a lull over winter, the Taliban insurgency has gathered
pace in recent weeks. The violence has left more than 1,000
people dead this year, most of the rebels, according to an AFP
tally.

