

China vowed Thursday to do more to protect its citizens working
in world hot spots after a deadly attack on a Chinese-run oil
field in Ethiopia, but said its global investment plans were
unchanged.


The attack on the facility left 77 people dead, including nine
Chinese, and caused national outrage here and concern for
compatriots in dangerous places, although there was no sense that
China should withdraw.


A foreign ministry spokesman admitted the attack by rebels had
taken China by surprise and prompted a review of security
arrangements for its nationals working abroad.


"There are some new situations that we never expected to happen,"
Liu Jianchao said.


"During the process there have been some questions on security.
The Chinese government will strengthen research on the security
situation so that the security of Chinese enterprises engaging in
investment, economic and trade cooperation can be further
guaranteed in the future."


The facility in Ethiopia's remote eastern Ogaden region is
operated by Sinopec, one of China's biggest state-run energy
firms.


Seven Chinese nationals were also abducted in the attack by the
separatist Ogaden National Liberation Front, although a spokesman
for the rebel group said Thursday that they would be released
very soon.


In the past three years, dozens of Chinese workers, engineers and
other civilians have been killed or kidnapped in strife-torn
regions of Nigeria, Kenya, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and
elsewhere.


Even in relative stable nations they have faced open hostility,
such as in Zambia where Chinese President Hu Jintao was forced to
cancel some public appearances during a visit in February.


Zambians reportedly wanted to vent their anger over the
exploitation of local workers by Chinese firms and the plunder of
the country's mineral resources.


Liu insisted that violence would not have any impact on China's
strategy to invest abroad, which is primarily driven by a
voracious hunger for natural resources.


"China supports trans-national trade and investment between China
and other countries, including those in Africa. This is our set
policy, it will not change," he said.


An official at Sinopec also told AFP on Thursday that it had no
plans to pull out of Ethiopia or any other nation where there may
be a security risk.


"The government has encouraged us to invest in oil resources
overseas. I think there will be no major change in our strategy
due to the incident," the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


The mounting violence marks something of a turning point for
China, which has long considered itself on the side of the
"little guy" around the globe but now is being increasingly
resented, according to Denny Roy, a China specialist at the Asia-
Pacific Centre for Security Studies in Honolulu.


"As China shifts from a regional to a global power, they are
going to start realising the benefits and costs of that, and one
of those is that it makes you a target," Roy said.


"The people targeted in Ethiopia were seen as powerful outside
investors defying a particular group's ban on doing this type of
business in their country. It might be a bit of a shock for some
Chinese to be in that position now."


In an editorial Thursday, the China Daily said improving security
for the roughly one million Chinese nationals and 7,000 companies
overseas should be a high priority.


"As Chinese citizens move throughout the world, they are
increasingly vulnerable. An affective system to minimise risks is
essential," the paper said.

