

An order by Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko to hold
elections in two months was rejected Thursday as
"unconstitutional" by a senior aide to Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych.


Yushchenko, whose long-running power struggle with Yanukovych,
has triggered a political crisis in Ukraine, said late Wednesday
that he had issued an order for early parliamentary elections to
be held on June 24.


Earlier this month, Yushchenko had ordered the dissolution of
parliamanet, bringing his feud with the prime minister into the
open.


"Both the previous decree to dissolve parliament and the decree
issued by the Ukrainian president (on Wednesday) are
unconstitutional," Yanukovych aide Sergei Levochkin was quoted as
saying by the Russian news agency RIA Novostias.


The swift response by Yanukovych's camp looked set to deepen the
standoff between the prime minister's ruling parliamentary
coalition and the Western- leaning president.


The two men entered open conflict on April 2, when Yushchenko
ordered parliament dissolved and early elections, accusing the
ruling coalition of illegally poaching deputies to its side.


Yanukovych defied the order, and his supporters continue to meet
in parliament.


The pro-Russian coalition can currently muster about 250 votes.
The president's camp fears that with a constitutional majority of
300, the coalition could impeach the president.


Yanukovych decided to cut short a visit to Uzbekistan to return
to Kiev on Thursday, where supporters were awaiting his reaction
to the president's new order.


Nikolai Kravchenko, a deputy from the Communist Party, was swift
to attack Yushchenko's decision.


"We're dealing with a government coup. Releasing a second order
was legally illiterate," he said during a televised parlimentary
session.


In an interview Wednesday, Yushchenko expressed confidence that
he would  win out in the crisis, casting it as "a test for
democracy".


The stand-off is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of this country of 47 million people,
located between the European Union and NATO to the west and
Russia to the east.

