

Japan's Toshiba Corp. said Thursday net profit jumped 76 percent
to a record high in the year to March thanks to strong sales of
electronic goods and its massive purchase of US nuclear power
plant maker Westinghouse.


The high-tech giant said it sold securities and fixed assets to
offset the cost of buying Westinghouse, which was one of the
largest Japanese acquisitions overseas in years, and falling
prices in its key chip business.


Toshiba posted a record net profit of 137.4 billion yen (1.16
billion dollars) for the financial year, up from 78.2 billion
yen.


Revenue rose 12 percent at 7.12 trillion yen, with operating
profit gaining seven percent to 258.4 billion yen.


"The company posted record highs in revenue, pre-tax profit and
net profit," said Toshiba vice president Fumio Muraoka.


Toshiba said it enjoyed brisk demand for its electronics
products, including personal computers, televisions and portable
digital music players.


"Sales of the television and PC divisions were particularly
strong overseas, bringing larger profits," he said.


Toshiba also saw strong sales of semiconductors including NAND
flash memory chips -- the technology vital to MP3 players and
other consumer electronics.


Prices of NAND flash memory have fallen dramatically due to
intense competition, dropping by as much as 70 percent in the
business year to March.


Toshiba, which earns about half of its total profit by selling
memory chips, reported 128.3 billion yen in operating profit in
its semiconductor division, down 5.7 billion yen from a year
earlier.


"We believe we have done well considering the drastic fall in the
price of NAND memory chips," Muraoka said.


It also credited its 5.4 billion-dollar purchase of Westinghouse
from British Nuclear Fuels for the profits gain.


"The power systems business saw sales rise on the consolidation
of Westinghouse into the group," the company said in an earning
report statement.


However, it forecast a 17.4 percent drop in net profit in the
current year to March 2008 to 120 billion yen, in part due to the
cost of consolidating Westinghouse, which it hopes will benefit
from a resurgence in the US nuclear power market.


At the same time, revenue is expected to edge up by five percent
and operating profit by 1.6 percent.


The company said sales of mobile telephones decreased at home
last year amid tough competition and warned that the NAND bonanza
would gradually fade.


Operating profits from electronics devices "is expected to be
lower than in fiscal year 2006, reflecting market price declines
in NAND flash memories," the statement said.

