

Shareholders in ABN Amro, the focus of a huge European takeover
battle, were set for a heated general assembly on Thursday over
competing bids and the proposed sale of US LaSalle bank.


ABN Amro has said that the takeover bid made by British bank
Barclays and the proposed counter offer by a three bank
consortium will not be voted on by the shareholders' meeting.


The Dutch bank's management is backing Barclays' bid of 36.25
euros per share saying it will create more returns for
shareholders in the long run.


However some shareholders see more benefits in the 39-euro per
share offer from the consortium comprising Royal Bank of
Scotland, Spain's Banco Santander and Dutch-Belgian group Fortis
who have proposed a 72-billion-euro takeover for ABN Amro.


Shareholders have said they are even more concerned by the fact
that ABN Amro has ruled out a vote on the proposed sale of it US
subsidiary LaSalle to Bank of America for 21 billion dollars
(15.4 billion euros) as part of its agreement with Barclays to
buy the Dutch group for 67 billion euros.


The US sale is seen by analysts as a so-called "poison pill" to
deter the three European banks led by Royal Bank of Scotland from
launching a counter bid for ABN Amro.


ABN Amro is now saying that it is  actively soliciting
alternative bids from banks that might be interested in LaSalle.
However, analysts stressed the consortium wants to keep its hands
on the Dutch group's key US asset and would oppose a sale if it
won control of ABN Amro.


Royal Bank of Scotland is particularly interested in LaSalle
Bank, some analysts believe.


Other parties interested by LaSalle have until May 6 to come
forward with their offers, ABN said, after which Bank of America
has five days to equal and carry off the offer.


If ABN Amro breaches its contract it will have to pay Bank of
America up to 200 million dollars in compensation.


The Dutch shareholders' association VEB threatened on Wednesday
to take legal action against ABN Amro unless shareholders were
allowed to vote on the sale of LaSalle Bank at the general
assembly.


London-based hedge fund TCI -- a key ABN shareholder which has
previously threatened legal action if ABN did not talk to
potential buyers other than Barclays-- has deemed the
consortium's bid "compelling" and called on ABN Amro's management
to terminate the sale of LaSalle.


At Thursday's general assembly shareholders will get to vote on
some of TCI's motions, filed before the takeover bids were
announced.


The hedge fund wanted the bank to actively investigate all
possibilities of mergers, takeovers or sell its operations
separately to create benefits for shareholders in the form of a
share buy-back or dividends in a period of no more than six
months.


They also ask ABN to refrain from making any acquisitions during
that period.


Meanwhile Dutch unions, afraid that a break-up of ABN Amro by the
banking consortium would trigger a lot more lay offs than a
takeover by Barclays has called upon ABN Amro employees to
protest outside the general assemble.


The CNV, one of the three big Dutch unions, said the protest were
meant to call on the shareholders "to take into account the
interests of the employees".

