

President Vladimir Putin was to deliver on Thursday a state of
the nation speech being closely watched for Russia's position on
hot-button issues including opposition to US missile defence and
the Kremlin's commitment to democracy.


The annual televised speech before government and parliament,
scheduled to start at 0800 GMT, is likely to be Putin's last
before March 2008 elections when Russians will elect a new
president.


Analysts say Putin -- who is constitutionally required to step
down next year at the end of his second term -- is to use the
speech to trumpet economic growth and political stability under
his watch.


Highlighting successes would help Putin burnish his legacy while
preparing the ground for a chosen successor to take his place in
the Kremlin.


Deteriorating US-Russian relations, particularly over
Washington's plan to deploy a missile-defence shield in eastern
Europe, could feature highly in the foreign policy section of the
address.


Washington and European capitals will also be watching carefully
for any signs of retreat on Moscow's firm opposition to a
Western-backed plan that would put Kosovo on the road to
independence from Serbia.


Following the death this week of Russia's first post-Soviet
president Boris Yeltsin, and his lavish state funeral Wednesday,
Putin is also under pressure to address critics that he has
rolled back many of the democratic freedoms introduced under
Yeltsin in the 1990s.


In a sombre televised address following Yeltsin's funeral, Putin
honoured Yeltsin, saying that under him "a new, democratic Russia
was born -- a free state open to the world."


All of Putin's major policy pronouncements are scrutinised for
signs of his plans beyond 2008. Polls show many Russians would
like Putin to stay on and his critics claim the ex-KGB officer
will change or manipulate the constitution in order to do so.


Putin has consistently denied for years that he has any such
plans. Nonetheless, the speaker of Russia's upper house of
parliament, Sergei Mironov, raised the possibility in a speech
last month and suggested that regional assemblies discuss lifting
the constitutional term limit.


This will be the Russian president's eighth state of the nation
speech. It had been scheduled for Wednesday but was postponed for
Yeltsin's funeral.


Last year, the Russian president highlighted the problems of
corruption and the country's low birthrate, as well as
spotlighting military and economic rivalry with Washington.


"The most serious problem in contemporary Russia is demography,"
Putin said then, estimating that Russia's population of just
under 143 million people was falling by an average of 700,000 a
year.

