

Russia should spend billions of dollars to take a lead in global
nanotechnology and billions more to revive some of the grandiose
industrial achievements of the Soviet past, President Vladimir
Putin told the nation Thursday.


While calling for a "second mass electrification" and an upgrade
to the Volga- Don canal built by Stalin in the 1950s, Putin also
used his annual state of the nation speech to urge support for
small business and maintenance of a relatively conservative
fiscal stance.


In an address devoted more to spending income from the country's
vast oil and gas reserves than to their development, Putin said
funds should be directed to the improvement of the lives of
people and developing the economy.


Vital to future growth is the ongoing overhaul of the country's
electricity sector, Putin said.


"We are talking about a second mass electrification of the
country," he said in a reference to the cherished Soviet project
to bring electricity to all citizens.


"By 2020 it is necessary to increase the production of
electricity in Russia by two-thirds. For this the state and
private companies will invest around 12 trillion roubles (465
billion dollars)."


Part of this development will be in the nuclear sector, which
Putin said was in need of consolidation.


"A special corporation will have to be set up to link nuclear
energy and industrial enterprises and work on the domestic and
foreign markets," he said.


Putin said that 26 nuclear power stations will be built in the
next 12 years, almost matching the 30 built in the Soviet era.


The speech contained some elements of protectionism, saying
Russia should stop issuing fishing quotas to foreign companies
and try to develop its wood- processing industry by gradually
increasing exports of certain types of timber.


Putin also called for support for Russia's struggling civilian
ship-building industry through a state-backed corporation.


"If we don't take any quick action today, the sector will simply
degenerate, which in the end will have an effect on the country's
security," he said, noting that 90 percent of civilian craft are
currently ordered abroad.


Transport was a key theme in the speech, in which he called for
funds to develop regional airports and sea ports.


The upgrade for the Volga-Don canal should be financed by an
international consortium, he said, while private-public
partnerships were the way forward in Russia's aviation, shipping
and space industries.


In aviation, he said foreign help would be needed to regain
ground following the near-collapse of the civil aviation building
sector in the decade following the Soviet collapse in 1991.


"It is necessary to decide this year on the choice of an
international partner," he said.


Putin devoted most of his comments on the economy to the
development of nanotechnology as the driving force of Russia's
scientific strategy, saying the government would spend more than
130 billion roubles (five billion dollars) on the sector, to be
funnelled through a nanotechnology corporation.

