

A top cleric and ex-presidential challenger has issued an unusual
public warning over the state of Iran's economy and political
disunity which he said are threatening the tenets of the Islamic
revolution.


Ali Akbar Nateq Nuri, an advisor to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, expressed concern that money supply growth and
factional political bickering in the Islamic republic are
spiralling out of control.


"If no economic plan is presented for the country, even if a
barrel of oil costs 200 dollars, we will simply be faced with an
increase in liquidity resulting in high prices and inflation,"
said Nateq Nuri, according to the ISNA news agency.


"There is a flood of liquidity in society. Wherever it appears it
destroys," Nateq Nuri was quoted as telling a group of 100 MPs.


Inflation is currently one of the hottest topics in Iranian
politics amid a spike in prices of basic goods and warnings by
economists that high money supply growth indicates prices will
rise further.


According to the research centre of parliament, money supply in
Iran is set to rise 41 percent in the current Iranian year to
March 20, with inflation hitting 23.4 percent.


Nateq Nuri was the conservative candidate who was heavily beaten
by Mohammad Khatami when the reformist won Iran's presidential
elections by a landslide in 1997.


Always close to Khamenei, he is now increasingly seen as a
pragmatist but rarely spells out his views in public. It is rare
in Iran for a man of his prominence to issue such explicit
warnings over the state of the country.


He took aim at mounting political tribalism, especially
disagreements between President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and
parliament which he said were endangering the country's annual
slogan of "national unity and Islamic cohesion".


"This is an immediate necessity for today and will not be
achieved unless we pay more attention to our common ground rather
than our differences," he said.


Some members of parliament and the reformist press have
criticised Ahmadinejad and some of his ministers for their
policies, especially over the economy and the president's
provocative speeches on its nuclear drive.


Conservatives close to the president have wasted little time in
hitting back, accusing the critics of undermining national unity
at a time of crisis with the international community.


The cleric warned Iran's disparate collection of reformists,
conservatives and hardliners that "the four pillars (of the
Islamic republic): Islam, revolution, Imam and supreme leader
should be the basis of cooperation."


He lamented that human resources were being wasted with skilled
officials at ministries who were currently out of political
favour losing their jobs to less adept allies of those in power.


When Ahmadinejad became president in 2005, dozens of experienced
officials at key ministries such as foreign affairs and oil were
moved out and replaced by people closer to the sympathies of the
president.


"In our country, if a political party wins they take the losers
in a minibus out of the organisations (they worked for) and they
replace them with a bus load of their own people," Nateq Nuri
said.


"The continuation of this situation results in stagnation and a
waste of human resources... We should not put people aside as we
do not like their tastes," he said.

