

Envoys of the UN Security Council which is to decide on Kosovo's
possible independence within weeks, met on Thursday with Serbian
leaders staunchly opposed to the loss of their historic
heartland.


The 15-member delegation was to assess progress made in Kosovo
since the Council adopted Resolution 1244, which put an end to
the 1998-1999 conflict in the province with an independence-
seeking ethnic Albanian majority.


The fact-finding mission began by meeting with Serbian Prime
Minister Vojislav Kostunica, a nationalist who is fervently
against UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan to grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence.


It was also due to hold talks with President Boris Tadic, members
of parliament and non-governmental organisation representatives.


"The Security Council decided to have an information mission
going to Belgrade and Pristina in order to have all the
information we need for taking appropriate decisions," the head
of the mission, Belgium ambassador Johan Verbeke, said in
Brussels on Wednesday.


Though formally still a part of Serbia, Kosovo has been run by
the United Nations since 1999, when NATO bombing drove out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the conflict.


Serbia has won support from traditional ally Russia, which
appears to be on a collision course with the West after
threatening this week to use its Security Council veto to block
any new resolution that does not satisfy Serbia.


Moscow, which proposed the fact-finding mission after Ahtisaari
presented the Council his plans last month, has backed Serbian
calls for new negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina.


The demands have been flatly rejected by Western countries, in
particular the United States and European Union which support
Ahtisaari's plans that would give Kosovo self-governance, a
constitution, flag and anthem.


Belgrade hopes the UN mission will recognise failures of
provisional Kosovo Albanian authorities to provide safe
conditions for the province's Serbs and other minorities.


It is also expected to request further efforts to enable the
return of some 220,000 Serb and other non-Albanian refugees that
fled the province after the war fearing reprisal attacks by
Albanian extremists.


"The Security Council mission must answer these questions and ...
enable new negotiations that would solve the issue of return of
refugees," Kostunica said ahead of the mission's arrival in
Belgrade late Wednesday.


In a bid to emphasise the refugee plight, around 1,000 displaced
Serbs began gathering overnight for a demonstration at the
administrative border between Kosovo and Serbia proper, said Beta
news agency.


Meanwhile, some 100 Kosovo Serb refugees staged a protest on
Thursday morning outside the Serbian government building in the
capital, where Kostunica was meeting with the Security Council
mission.


The UN delegates are to travel to Kosovo later on Thursday for
talks with senior local officials.


They are also expected to visit Serb-populated enclaves in the
province, as well as medieval Serbian Orthodox monasteries.


Kosovo Albanian officials expect the Security Council mission
only to evaluate the situation on the ground in the province, and
to recommend support for Ahtisaari's plan.


"We will show them that an independent Kosovo is not a problem
for the United Nations, but their future and active member," said
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister, Agim Ceku.


The mission is due to head to Vienna on Saturday to hold talks
with Ahtisaari before a debate on his proposals before the
Security Council next month.

