

Thailand's army-installed premier met the leader of some 2,000
monks protesting outside parliament Thursday to hear their demand
that Buddhism be declared the kingdom's official religion.


The saffron-robed monks accompanied nine elephants in a march
through Bangkok to stage a sit-in outside the parliament building
on Wednesday.


The elephants left but the monks stayed through the night to call
on the military-backed government to declare Buddhism the state
religion in a new constitution currently being debated.


Senior Buddhist monk Prathep Kavee submitted the monks' demand to
Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont and to a top constitution
drafter, Seree Suwanaphanont.


Both Surayud and the junta that seized power in a September coup
have said they were willing to support the proposal to name
Buddhism as Thailand's official religion.


"What the government wants to see is negotiation, and I am
convinced that all concerned parties will keep on talking,"
Surayud told reporters.


The monks said they would end their sit-in later Thursday, but
threatened to return to the streets if their demand is not met.


"If we know for sure that Buddhism is not enshrined in the
constitution, we will resume large-scale protests both in Bangkok
and the provinces to campaign for the rejection of this
constitution," said Thongchai Kuasakul, chairman of Thai Buddhism
Pormotion Foundation.


"We do not anticipate that our movement will affect other
religions because every Thai national is still free to practice
any faith. We are not attacking anybody," he said.


The military, which seized power in a coup in September, has
appointed a panel to write a new charter for Thailand. The first
draft was released last week for a period of consultation, before
going to the public in a referendum in September.


The current draft makes no mention of a national religion.


Some 95 percent of Thais are Buddhist, but critics of the
proposal warn that naming a national religion could inflame
tensions in the Muslim-majority south of Thailand, where a
separatist insurgency has raged for three years.

