

Poland's first post-communist prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki
has refused to comply with a new vetting law launched by the
ruling conservatives to extend an anti-communist purge.


His refusal to submit to the demands of the new law comes hard on
the heels of similar defiance by Polish European parliamentarian
Bronislaw Geremek.


"This is an attempt to humiliate people... and I'm not sure that
I am under any obligation to fill in this form," the 80-year-old
Mazowiecki was quoted by Poland's PAP news agency as saying
Thursday after receiving a vetting form to fill in from the
office of President Lech Kaczynski.


"I've already submitted three similar declarations in the past. I
have nothing to add to them. I did not collaborate with the
secret services" during the communist era, Mazowiecki said on the
TVN24 news station.


Geremek, 75, a founder-member of the Solidarity trade union in
the 1980s and former foreign minister of Poland, said Wednesday
the so-called lustration law trumpeted by President Kaczynski and
his twin brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, is "creating
an Orwellian-style ministry of truth" in Poland.


The new measures drastically extend the dragnet of the lustration
law, which previously affected only lawmakers, government
ministers and judges, or around 30,000 of Poland's 38 million
people.


Last month it was exponentially broadened to include academics,
journalists, managers of state-owned firms, school principals,
diplomats and lawyers, and now affects nearly three-quarters of a
million Poles.


They are required to file declarations saying whether or not they
collaborated with the communist-era secret police, on pain of
losing their jobs.


The sworn declarations are to be checked by the National
Remembrance Institute (IPN) -- the body that earlier this month
charged former Polish president, General Wojciech Jaruzelski,
with "communist crimes" for declaring martial law in 1981.


Anyone found by the IPN to have fudged the truth in their
declaration is barred from their profession for 10 years. Refusal
to fill in a form, as in the case of Mazowiecki and Geremek,
could also cost the refusenik their job.


Academics and journalists have also vowed to stand up to the law,
which they say smacks of the communist regime's methods, and
members of Poland's liberal and ex-communist opposition have
asked the Constitutional Court to rule on its constitutionality.


The speaker of the European parliament, Germany's Hans-Gert
Poettering, said Thursday that the assembly would do all in its
power to keep Geremek in his job.


He said that leaders of the parliament's political groups had met
Thursday and expressed full solidarity with Geremek, but added
that so far no notification had been received from Warsaw about
his future.

