

Two French aid workers held by the Taliban in Afghanistan are
well, the Islamist movement said Thursday, a day ahead of an
apparent deadline for demands to be met for their freedom.


The Taliban, which has beheaded several of its captives, said
April 20 French troops must be withdrawn from Afghanistan and
Kabul must release Taliban prisoners within a week.


"Without this, the position of Islamic Emirate (the Taliban)
about foreign prisoners was clear to the world and (will) soon be
applied," it said in a statement on its website.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Thursday he could not
comment on the deadline.


The two aid workers for French nongovernment organisation Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) went missing in southwestern
Afghanistan April 3 with three of their Afghan staff.


"They are in good health, in good condition. They are eating well
and they are our guests," Ahmadi said. "There has been no
particular development of the case. There has been no major
direct or indirect negotiations."


A spokesman for the French foreign ministry said in Paris Monday
he would not comment on the statement posted on the Taliban
website (www.alemarah.8rf.com) a week ago.


French authorities "are continuing to make all the necessary
efforts in liaison with the NGO Terre d'Enfance and the Afghan
authorities," the spokesman said in comments fowarded to AFP by
the French embassy in Kabul.


The Afghan government was investigating, interior ministry
spokesman Zemarai Bashary told AFP also refusing to comment on
the apparent deadline.


"Our relevant departments are working on the issue and they are
trying their best," he said.


In a videotape message broadcast a week ago, the hostages said
they feared for their lives and urged the French government to
give in to the kidnappers' demands.


The Taliban made similar demands ahead of the release of the
kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo. The reporter
was freed in exchange for five Taliban prisoners in a deal which
met with widespread outrage.


His driver and his interpreter were beheaded.


Senior French diplomat Philippe Faure met with Afghan President
Hamid Karzai in Kabul April 19 to urge for the utmost efforts to
free the five; French President Jacques Chirac also called his
Afghan counterpart about the matter.


Around 1,000 French troops are deployed in the Kabul region as
part of the NATO- led International Security Assistance Force
helping the government to extend its authority across the
country.

