

Palestinian factions are prepared to stand by a fragile truce
which Hamas had declared over this week after firing rockets into
Israel, an Egyptian official said Thursday.


The member of an Egyptian security delegation, based in the Gaza
Strip, was speaking to AFP following talks with Palestinian
faction representatives and Israeli officials to try to prevent a
new spiral of violence.


"The Egyptian security delegation told the Israelis it was
informed by the Palestinian factions they were ready to respect
the truce and not carry on firing rockets and mortars on Israeli
positions and towns," said the official.


"The Palestinian factions demanded recriprocal respect of the
truce and that it be applied equally to the Gaza Strip and West
Bank," he added, speaking on condition of anonymity.


"They consider any Israeli attack on Palestinian people in the
West Bank an aggression against Palestinians in the Gaza Strip,"
the official said.


Hamas would hold rocket fire "if Israeli incursions and
aggressions stop," a spokesman for the radical movement told AFP.


"Rocket fire is a form of resistance invoked to confront the
Zionist enemy and its aggressions," Ismail Radwan said.


The armed wing of Hamas, whose political branch is the senior
coalition partner in the Palestinian government, on Tuesday said
it fired nearly 100 projectiles towards Israel and declared a
five-month fragile truce over.


The Islamic group said it was abandoning the truce following
Israeli raids that killed nine Palestinians at the weekend.


The army said 10 projectiles landed inside Israel, causing no
casualties or damage. No further rocket impacts have been
reported on Israeli territory.


Israel threatened a serious response to continued rocket fire on
Wednesday but Prime Minister Ehud Olmert appeared to rule out any
imminent large-scale operation against the Gaza Strip.


Eight Palestinians were arrested in the northern occupied West
Bank by Israeli troops on Thursday, including one suspected local
leader of the radical Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, Palestinian
security sources said.

