

Sri Lanka is using the cricket World Cup to lure holidaymakers to
this tropical island that has seen a marked drop in foreign
visitors following an escalation of violence, officials said
Thursday.


Sri Lanka's tourism authorities are using 30 students at
Caribbean venues to hold placards, traditional masks and balloons
to catch the attention of television cameras, the officials said.


"The placards carry various slogans all centered around our
promotional theme 'Sri Lanka, a land like no other'," Sri Lanka
Tourism Chairman Renton de Alwis told AFP.


The games are heavily sponsored and only products and services
accredited to the organisers are allowed to be displayed at match
venues. However Sri Lankan authorities are using various tactics
in a bid to get round the rules.


For instance, a placard showing Lasith Malinga's bleached-blond
hairdo with the legend "a lad like no other" is being placed next
to Sri Lankan masks, officials said.


The placard can be read as a spectator slogan as well as being a
play on the country's theme of "a land like no other."


"The exposure we have had during the World Cup is simply
priceless for the country's image. The team's success has
generated enormous awareness about the country. It's a shot in
the arm for us," de Alwis said.


Sri Lanka's image as a tourist destination has taken a beating
since fighting between government troops and Tamil Tiger rebels
surged in December 2005.


In the three months to March this year, some 134,600 foreign
tourists visited the island, a 15.6 percent drop over the same
period in 2006, according to official figures.


March was the worst, with authorities reporting just 35,031
visitors, a 36.0 percent drop over the same month a year earlier.


"Hopefully, our cheer squads and creative visual material will
attract more cricket fans to Sri Lanka when England tours the
island in October," de Alwis said.


Sri Lanka Tourism has rolled out a 500-million rupee (4.6-million
dollar) campaign to promote Sri Lanka in India, Europe and China
this year.

