

Syria's ruling National Progressive Front romped to victory
Thursday in parliamentary elections in which the only challenge
came from independents.


The front, which is dominated by the Baath party of President
Bashar al-Assad, took all 172 seats that it contested -- five
more than the 167 reserved for it under the constitution,
according to official results announced by Interior Minister
Bassam Abdel Majid.


The other 78 seats up for grabs in the weekend's two-day
elections went to independents amid a boycott by the only
tolerated opposition bloc.


The front has won every election since its formation in 1973. The
Baath party has ruled Syria under a state of emergency ever since
it seized power in 1963.


In the outgoing parliament, the front held only its minimum
reserved quota of 167 seats.


On the twin election days Sunday and Monday, AFP correspondents
saw only small numbers of voters in the polling stations they
visited in the capital.


But Abdel Majid said turnout reached 56.12 percent of registered
voters.


He said that of the nearly 12 million Syrians of voting age, a
little over 7.4 million had registered and nearly 4.16 million
turned out.


"The elections are democratic and transparent -- the high turnout
proves it."


The minister rejected strong US criticism of the poll.


"Everything we do in Syria will draw US criticism because of our
opposition to the occupation of Iraq," he said. "Nothing coming
out of Syria is going to satisfy the United States."


The White House on Tuesday branded the elections "a meaningless
exercise" marred by unfair laws and intimidation tactics by the
authorities.


"On April 22 and 23, President Assad failed again to deliver on
his long- promised reforms, rendering Syria's parliamentary
elections a meaningless exercise," spokeswoman Dana Perino said


Abdel Majid said the new People's Assembly included 180 new
members and 30 women.


Prime Minister Naji Otri won re-election in the second city of
Aleppo.


In the capital, leading businessman Mohammed Hamcho won election
as did moderate Islamist Mohammed Habash.


The parliamentary elections were the second since Assad succeeded
his late father Hafez in July 2000.

