

An Indian judge ordered the arrest of Hollywood star Richard Gere
and Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty on Thursday over a hug and
kiss at an AIDS awareness event.


The arrest warrants were issued in the Rajasthan state capital of
Jaipur following a public interest plea filed last week by
resident Poonam Chand Bhandari accusing the pair of obscenity,
court officials said.


"Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Dinesh Gupta issued the
(arrest) orders," a court official told AFP from Jaipur, 375
kilometres (232 miles) from Jodhpur.


Gere embraced the 31-year-old Shetty -- winner of Britain's
Celebrity Big Brother reality show -- and planted several kisses
on her cheek in front of thousands of onlookers at the AIDS
function in the Indian capital New Delhi earlier this month.


The incident triggered a public storm in India, known for its
chaste public behaviour despite Bollywood's sexually suggestive
song-and-dance routines.


At least two formal complaints of obscenity were lodged after
protesters in cities across the country burned effigies of Gere.


Obscenity is punishable by a maximum of two years' imprisonment
and a fine of 2,000 rupees (45 dollars) in India.


Radical Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in India's
entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies in New
Delhi after the actor's affectionate display.


The opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party had
condemned the incident, saying "such a public display is not part
of Indian tradition."


Gere, who left India soon after the event, is a frequent visitor
as a follower of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who
lives in the country in exile, besides in his capacity as an AIDS
awareness campaigner.


India has the largest number of HIV-AIDS cases in the world, with
5.7 million people infected, according to the Geneva-based
UNAIDS.


Actress Shetty had appealed for calm after the kissing incident,
telling reporters that Gere had asked her to say he was "sorry if
he has hurt the sentiments of Indian people."

