

Iran is seeking to move all Tehran's international flights from
the end of next month to a new and still under-used airport
outside the city, the Fars news agency reported on Thursday.


Transport Minister Mohammad Rahmati said owing to an increase in
domestic traffic, international flights would switch from the
central Mehrabad airport to Imam Khomeini International Airport
(IKIA), some 30 kilometres (18 miles) south of the city.


"Since the number of domestic flights from Mehrabad airport has
increased and it has a limited capacity, all international
flights will be moved by the end of May 22," Rahmati was quoted
as saying.


"We are seriously pursuing this plan and many of the
international flights have already moved to the IKIA," he added.


However Western airlines in Tehran said that they had not been
informed of the decision and emphasised it would be almost
impossible to shift their operations in such a short time.


"We are not aware of such a decision," said a representative of
Italy's Alitalia, who asked not to be named. A British Airways
official said: "We have not heard such a thing from the
authorities."


IKIA, named after Iran's revolutionary leader, has had a
turbulent history since its opening in 2004 as the Islamic
republic's showpiece airport and a hub intended to rival Dubai.


When it first opened in May that year, Iran's elite Revolutionary
Guards moved in to shut it down over their objections to the
involvement of a Turkish-led consortium in the project.


The Guards said the consortium had business dealings with Iran's
arch enemy Israel, making it a danger to national security.


Even when the first flight touched down in May 2005, Britain and
Canada told their citizens to use flights from Mehrabad amid
concerns about runway safety at IKIA.


Currently all major European airlines operting in Iran such as
British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France use Mehrabad airport.
Iran has no direct airline links to North America and IKIA is
currently only used by carriers to the Middle East and Asia.


Dubai-based Emirates is among the few foreign carriers to use the
new airport and even at busy times it appears spookily empty with
the spaces intended for dozens of duty-free shops and cafes still
unused.

