

Former Malaysian premier Mahathir Mohamad has bestowed tacit
support on an opposition party advised by foe Anwar Ibrahim ahead
of a crucial state by- election, according to a report Thursday.


The ruling National Front coalition is battling the People's
Justice Party, advised by Anwar, to win the seat of Ijok in
central Selangor state in a poll seen as a test of popularity for
both sides ahead of general elections expected before 2009.


Mahathir warned Ijok residents against voting blindly for the
coalition he formerly led and called on them to use the ballot
box to express their dissatisfaction with the government.


"Unless you send a signal to the government that, 'Look, if you
don't behave yourself, you may not get my vote at the next
election', then the government will say, 'You see, the people are
voting for us. We are doing well'," he said.


"If you don't think (about) what you are doing, you don't use
your vote intelligently, then of course, you are to be blamed,"
he was quoted as telling news website Malaysiankini.com.


Voting takes place on Saturday for the state poll which is seeing
the government spend millions of dollars in Ijok for overnight
development projects, including new street lights and roads.


The People's Justice Party, meanwhile, is counting on the draw of
campaigning by Anwar, sacked as deputy premier by Mahathir in
1998, to win votes.


Campaigning has been tense, with scuffles between the two sides
and accusations from Anwar of illegitimate phantom voters on the
electoral roll -- a charge Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak has
dismissed as baseless.


Mahathir said if Ijok voters were swayed by the by-election
goodies, they would only have themselves to blame if a "rotten"
government was voted in.


"If you vote (National Front) because you get a lot of money or
because you get a lot of projects, you may get a rotten
government which uses money in order to buy your vote," he said.


He also lamented what he said was blind support for the National
Front, or Barisan Nasional, by its supporters.


"They don't care whether it is a good government or not. We are
Barisan people. We vote Barisan. No assessment, no study ...
That's why I say a country deserves the government it gets," he
said.


Mahathir, 81, has attacked the administration of Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi for months, levelling accusations of
economic mismanagement, nepotism and corruption.


Mahathir is a member of the dominant United Malays National
Organisation in the National Front coalition, which is led by
Abdullah.

