

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Thursday that Iran
must stop all uranium reprocessing activities in order to head
off further UN sanctions.


Rice reiterated an offer by the United States and its major power
allies of trade and political incentives for Iran as well as the
start of direct negotiations if Tehran accepted UN demands to
stop uranium enrichment.


"The only condition for beginning those discussions ... is that
Iran suspend its enrichment and reprocessing activities," Rice
said during a visit to Oslo for talks with NATO and Russian
foreign ministers.


Rice's comments appeared to rule out a mooted compromise under
which Iran could pledge not to expand its current reprocessing
activity without actually halting the work.


"What we can't have is Iran practising enrichment and
reprocessing, because that's what they're doing -- you get better
at it over time -- at the same time that we're in negotiations,"
she said.


Speaking as top European and Iranian negotiators met in Turkey on
the nuclear issue, Rice said the guiding principle for any
contacts with Tehran had to be "suspension for suspension."


"That means that we would be prepared to withhold further action
in the UN Security Council if Iran is prepared to suspend its
enrichment and reprocessing," she said.


Iran says it wants to enrich uranium to fuel nuclear power
plants, while the United States and its allies believe the
Islamic Republic is bent on producing highly enriched uranium for
nuclear weapons.


Rice said Iran had proven it could not be trusted on the issue by
hiding its enrichment efforts from international inspectors for
nearly 20 years.


"There is no confidence about Iran's intentions here, they appear
to be moving toward a nuclear weapon," she said.


Rice spoke shortly after Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said
talks Thursday in Ankara with EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana had brought the two sides closer to a "united view" on
ending the crisis.


The talks were the first face-to-face meetings between Larijani
and Solana, who represents the five permanent UN Security Council
members plus Germany, since a second round of limited UN
sanctions on Iran in March.


More talks are scheduled in two weeks.


Diplomats had said earlier that the six world powers were ready
to compromise and give Iran a face-saving chance to edge its way
slowly into stopping uranium enrichment.


One diplomat said a new idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond enrichment activities it has already
started.

