

President Vladimir Putin on Thursday threatened Russian
withdrawal from a landmark Cold War-era arms treaty limiting
military forces in Europe, abruptly raising the stakes in an
increasingly tense security dispute with the West.


"It would be appropriate to announce a moratorium on Russian
adherence to this treaty until it has been ratified by all NATO
countries," Putin told the Russian parliament in his annual state
of the nation address, referring to the 1990 Conventional Forces
in Europe (CFE) Treaty.


"I suggest this issue be raised in the Russia-NATO council and,
in the event there is no progress in negotiation, that we
consider terminating our obligations under the CFE," Putin said.


The CFE Treaty was signed in 1990 in Paris by the countries of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former
Warsaw Pact. It was adapted in 1999 following the collapse of the
Warsaw Pact and the enlargement of NATO, but NATO states have not
yet ratified the new pact.


Putin said Russia, which did ratify the new treaty, had been
complying with it on a unilateral basis and today had virtually
no military forces deployed in the northwest and European areas
of the country despite being the only CFE signatory with both
northern and southern flanks to protect.


Members of the US-led NATO bloc have tied ratification of the
adapted 1999 CFE Treaty to withdrawal of Russian forces from the
ex-Soviet republics of Georgia and Moldova, efforts which Russia
says have been under way and which are bilateral issues unrelated
to the CFE pact.


"What about them?" Putin said, referring to the NATO countries
which have not ratified the treaty. "Our partners have not even
ratified the treaty.


"This gives us every reason to say that our partners are acting
in this situation incorrectly at a very minimum," Putin said in
comments interrupted at one point by applause from the deputies
from the State Duma and the Federation Council gathered at the
Kremlin for the speech.


Russia and the West have been disputing application of the
adapted CFE Treaty for years with each side accusing the other of
acting in bad faith.


But Putin's warning ratcheted the testy rhetoric up to the top
level of the state and coincided with a rapid chilling in
relations between Russia and the United States over US plans to
deploy elements of its new missile defense system in two former
Warsaw Pact states near Russia's border.


The Russian president took direct aim at the US missile plans and
linked it directly to the CFE treaty, stating: "It is high time
for our partners to deliver their contribution to arms reduction,
not just in word but in deed."


Putin said the missile defense plan, if carried out, would mark
an unprecedented deployment in Europe of US strategic weaponry
and said this was an issue that should be of concern not just in
US-Russian bilateral relations but on the continent as a whole.


"In one way or another, this affects the interests of all
European states including those that are not members of NATO,"
Putin said.


The Russian leader said the matter should be taken up by the
Vienna-based Organisation for Security and Cooperation (OSCE), a
body that Moscow has for years accused of veering from its
original mission to deal with security matters in Europe toward
promotion of a US political agenda.


"It is time to give the activities of the OSCE some real content,
to turn the face of the organization toward the problems that
really concern the people of Europe instead of only looking to
build (political) blocs in the post-Soviet space," Putin said.

