

Japanese police issued an arrest warrant Thursday for a woman who
allegedly helped North Korea abduct children, as members of the
Korean community accused authorities of brutality in the probe.


Police issued an arrest warrant for Yoko Kinoshita, 59, a
Japanese woman sympathetic to North Korea, for the "kidnapping"
in 1974 of two children who are part Korean and part Japanese, a
Tokyo police spokesman said.


Police plan to issue an international arrest warrant for
Kinoshita, a former employee of a trading firm who left Japan for
Hong Kong in 1979 and is believed to be living in North Korea.


The communist state's past abductions of Japanese citizens have
become an emotionally charged dispute holding up any
reconciliation between the countries which have no diplomatic
relations.


Koreans in Japan who support Pyongyang accused authorities of
trying to link the community to the kidnappings in their probe of
the children's alleged abduction.


Police investigating the case Wednesday raided the headquarters
of the pro- Pyongyang General Association of Korean Residents in
Japan -- better known as Chongryon -- and confiscated several
boxes and computers.


Chongryon showed a news conference a video of a scuffle during
the raid showing a small group of policemen forcing a man to the
ground and handcuffing him. Amid shouting by police, a woman was
heard yelling, "Stop the violence!"


Ko Dok U, vice chairman of Chongryon, alleged that police kicked
and beat the Korean man and smashed his glasses before taking him
away.


"The fact that this is allowed by police in a democratic country
like Japan is so shocking that it is unforgivable," Ko said.


A spokesman for the Tokyo Metropolitan Police denied the
allegation.


"We are not aware of inflicting injury on any particular person
Wednesday," he said.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has built his career demanding a hard
line on North Korea over its abductions of Japanese civilians in
the 1970s and 1980s to train its spies.


North Korea repatriated five victims and their families in 2002
and says the case is closed. Abe says more abductees are alive
and vowed Thursday to raise the issue as he headed to the United
States for a summit with President George W. Bush.


"This extremely tyrannical political repression of Chongryon is
an attempt to politicise the abduction issue before the prime
minister's visit to the United States," Ko said.


The two children, Kiyomi Watanabe, then aged six, and her brother
Tsuyoshi, then aged three, disappeared in June 1974 from the
coastal Fukui province.


More than 600,000 Koreans live in Japan, most of whom either
immigrated or were enslaved during colonial rule or their
descendants. A disputed number are affiliated with North Korea.

