

Russian President Vladimir Putin delivered a toughly worded state
of the nation speech on Thursday aimed at shoring up his own
legacy after the death of his predecessor Boris Yeltsin, analysts
said.


The speech to the two houses of parliament, which Putin said was
his last as president of Russia, had strong populist overtones,
as well as containing sharp barbs against the West.


"He drew up an assessment of his presidency: the threats have
been eliminated, the transition period is over and the country is
moving towards development," said Sergei Markov, a pro-Kremlin
political analyst.


Putin devoted much of the address to talking up large-scale
industrial projects, including upgrading transport infrastructure
and boosting nuclear energy, as well as developing the hi-tech
sector.


In his speech, Putin also emphasised the importance of continuity
between the rule of Yeltsin, his own presidency and that of his
eventual successor, due to be elected in March 2008 elections.


"Putin is completing the Yeltsin era. The sunset is different
from the dawn but there is no qualitative difference, there's
continuity," said Stanislav Belkovsky, head of the Institute of
National Strategy in Moscow.


"The legacy of Yeltsin helps legitimise Putin in the West,"
Belkovsky said.


The Kremlin has embraced Yeltsin's legacy since Russia's first
post-Soviet president passed away on Monday, stressing his
democratic credentials and arranging a grandiose funeral with
echoes of Tsarist and Soviet history.


"It's not popular to say nice things about Yeltsin. It's a sign
that Putin is leaving and is concerned that his successor behaves
with him in the same way as he behaved with Yeltsin," said Yury
Korgunyuk from the Indem think tank.


Putin was hand-picked as a successor by Yeltsin's entourage and
one of his first moves on assuming office was to grant the former
president immunity from prosecution, fending off allegations of
corruption.


Despite repudiating many of his policies, Putin has also avoided
direct criticism of Yeltsin, even though Russia's first president
is widely reviled by many Russians for helping bring poverty and
war to Russia.


Pavel Felgenhauer, an independent analyst, saw signs of Soviet
history in Putin's speech, particularly the image created of a
caring Russian leadership and threats from the West.


"It was a very Soviet speech, like Brezhnev, where you start with
the fact that you are concerned about the life and well-being of
the people... and at the same time you have threat of the West,"
Felgenhauer said.


In his comments, Putin threatened Russian withdrawal from a
landmark arms treaty limiting military forces in Europe, abruptly
raising the stakes in an increasingly tense security dispute with
the West.


The Russian president also launched a stinging attack on foreign
interference in Russian affairs, a sharp rebuke to Western
critics who accuse him of having rolled back democracy during his
seven years in power.


For Belkovsky, this was a message to politicians to toe the
Kremlin line.


"It's just a public relations message to all domestic political
forces. Its meaning is: we'll give you money and you have to do
what we say," Belkovsky said.

