

China on Thursday warned visiting foreigners against engaging in
activities that threaten the nation's unity, as a rights group
demanded the release of four Americans detained for a pro-Tibet
protest.


"Any foreign citizens that come to China, it is their due
obligation to abide by the laws of China," foreign ministry
spokesman Liu Jianchao told reporters.


"When they are in China, they shall not engage in activities
concerning the sovereignty or unity of China."


Liu did not confirm the four were in police detention following
the protest on Wednesday at Mount Everest base camp, as the
Washington-based Students for a Free Tibet organisation has said.


However, Liu said authorities were "making an investigation and
are dealing with the case."


The four were detained after unfurling banners demanding a "free
Tibet" and protesting plans to take the Olympic torch to the top
of the mountain ahead of the 2008 Beijing Games, according to
Students for a Free Tibet.


"We want answers from the Chinese government, this was a non-
violent protest, they must give us information on those detained
and release them immediately," Lhadon Tethong, a spokeswoman for
group, told AFP by telephone.


The protesters included Tenzin Dorjee, the first known exiled
Tibetan to return to the region to protest, the rights group
said.


Hein Verbruggen, the chairman of the International Olympic
Committee's (IOC) coordination commission for the 2008 Games on
Wednesday in Beijing refused to comment on the detentions, saying
the IOC would not engage in political issues.


Lhadon said Verbruggen's statement was irresponsible and urged
the IOC to take action.


"We want the IOC and particularly (IOC president) Jacques Rogge
and Hein Verbruggen to immediately intervene and tell the Chinese
authorities they must release these activists," Lhadon said.


IOC spokeswoman Giselle Davies on Thursday reiterated
Verbruggen's comments, saying the IOC would not get involved.


"We are here to focus on the sporting event and the positive
things that will come from that, and to work specifically for
what is needed for the hosting of the Olympic Games," she said.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has since violently suppressed a number of
uprisings.


The US embassy in Beijing said that it had not been granted
consular access to the detained protesters but was in
consultations with the government.

