

Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said Thursday that talks with a
senior EU official had made progress towards a "united view" on
ending the crisis over Iran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment.


"I think in some areas we are approaching a united view and that
is to say the best approach is to have the issue settled through
negotiation," Larijani told journalists after meeting in Ankara
for a second day with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


Ahead of Thursday's meeting Solana said he did not expect a
"great breakthrough" in what is a first round of new talks to get
Iran to heed UN calls to halt uranium enrichment.


The talks here were the first face-to-face meetings between
Larijani and Solana, who represents the five permanent UN
Security Council members plus Germany, since the Council imposed
a second round of limited sanctions on Iran in March to punish
its continuing enrichment work.


More talks are scheduled in two weeks, Larijani said Wednesday.


"We can not make miracles but we have tried to move a little bit
the dossier forward," Solana said about the five-year-old crisis
over US charges that Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons.


"I think the fact that we are again together ... in itself is a
very important development," Solana said.


"We have tried to understand each other better ... and that
without any doubt is a very fundamental part to the soloution of
the problem," he said.


"It is the wish of everybody to resolve this issue in the
diplomatic track and I think it is the aim also of Dr. Larijani
and (Iran)," Solana said.


Larijani said the two sides were "aiming just to reach out for a
common paradigm to help settling this problem."


He said "the issue could be settled based on law and
international rules" with UN inspections "in place and also the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (should) prevail."


Solana, who represents Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia
and the United States in trying to start formal negotiations,
said the talks had been "constructive."


Solana and Larijani resumed their meeting at their hotel after
having met for a breakfast with Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul. Solana is to leave Ankara later Thursday for Oslo for a
meeting with NATO ministers.


Tehran denies it seeks nuclear weapons, saying its programme is a
peaceful effort to generate civilian nuclear power.


Last June the six world powers offered economic, technical and
security benefits if Iran agreed to suspend uranium enrichment,
but Tehran pressed ahead and negotiations never started.


In several rounds of talks, the last in February, Larijani and
Solana had failed to find a way to start meetings with the six.


Solana's spokeswoman Cristina Gallach said there were "no changes
in the position of the international community" against Iran's
enriching uranium and added that the priority was simply to
"create conditions for the beginning of negotiations."


Diplomats had said before Wednesday's meeting that there was
little hope of a breakthrough given Iran's steadfast refusal to
freeze its enrichment work.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start formal talks, the two sides remain far apart in
the crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


But the six world powers were ready to compromise and give Iran a
face-saving chance to edge its way slowly into stopping uranium
enrichment, the diplomats said.


One diplomat said a new idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond enrichment activities it has already
started, opening the way for further talks with Solana while the
UN holds off on further sanctions.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.

