

MySpace announced its launch in China Thursday, following months
of speculation about the Rupert Murdoch-controlled social
networking site's plans for the nation's 137 million Internet
users.


MySpace China introduced itself as a "locally owned, operated and
managed company" in which News Corp-owned MySpace Inc was only
one among several investors.


"Our team here will have the sole right to decide the operation
model, the technology platform as well as the product strategy,"
said MySpace China CEO Luo Chuan, a former Microsoft executive.


"It's very unlike the other multinationals you might have heard
about or seen in the Chinese market."


Despite MySpace China's efforts to differentiate itself, MySpace
Inc will be represented with three board members.


They include Murdoch's wife, Wendy Deng, as well as MySpace
founders Chris DeWolfe and Tom Anderson, Luo said.


Other investors include International Data Group and China
Broadband Capital Partners, an investment company founded by
former China Netcom Group Corp chief executive Edward Tian.


Luo declined at a briefing to give specific details about the
size of the investment or the share that MySpace Inc accounts
for.


Analysts have said that it was necessary for MySpace Inc to enter
into a partnership with local companies in order to gain access
to China's tightly controlled Internet.


The MySpace China community is still in its test stage, adapted
from the US version, but will gradually be developed to meet the
needs of Chinese users, the company said.


"Based on the MySpaced global brand and technology platform, we
will develop products and features that are tailored to today's
Chinese citizens," Luo said.


Negotiations have been in progress since News Corp chairman
Murdoch announced last October that he would bring MySpace to
China, according to earlier reports.


"In those discussions, there's always something that you need to
negotiate back and forth," said Luo, responding to a question
about the lengthy wait for the launch.


"Ideally, when rolling out a business in a new market, speed is
very, very critical. But more important is the way of doing it,
and looking at a optimizing the structure and ownership is the
critical factor."

