

Israel's top-level commission into the conduct and failures of
last year's Lebanon war will publish partial findings next Monday
that could deal a new blow to Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.


The government commission, headed by retired judge, is to draw
specific conclusions about the conduct of senior officials during
the conflict, principally Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defence
Minister Amir Peretz.


Monday's partial report will span the period from Israel's
withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000 until two Israeli soldiers were
captured on July 12 and "from July 12-17 when the decision to go
to war was taken," the commission said.


Fighters from Lebanese-based Shiite militia Hezbollah crept into
Israel on July 12 and captured two soldiers in a deadly raid that
triggered the 34-day war that left more than 1,200 Lebanese and
more than 160 Israelis dead.


A copy of the partial report will be submitted to Olmert and
Peretz before retired judge Eliayahu Winograd presents his
findings to the public.


Commission spokesman Eli Shaked told AFP the report includes
"conclusions of a personal nature, including against the prime
minister."


He did not confirm, however, if the commission would recommend
that Olmert and Peretz resign. "It will be up to the public to
make judgements based on the report," Shaked said.


Both the prime minister and Peretz have seen their approval
ratings slump to historic lows amid widespread calls to step down
over the war and a string of corruption scandals that have
seriously weakened the government.


Shaked said the commission had decided to limit its first report
to the first five days of the operation, based on a speech Olmert
delivered on July 17 announcing the start of the war.


The commission is expected to make a final report on the entire
war by the end of the year, the spokesman said.


The Winograd Commission was established on September 17 under
pressure from thousands of army reservists furious about the
army's inadequate preparation for battle, as well as military and
political mismanagement of the conflict.


The war was seen as a failure in Israel for failing to halt
deadly Hezbollah rocket attacks or retrieve the two captured
soldiers.

