

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rebuffed as "ludicrous"
Thursday Russian claims that Washington's plan to extend its
missile shield would upset the strategic balance in Europe.


Speaking ahead of talks with her NATO allies and Russian
counterpart Sergei Lavrov, Rice suggested that Moscow's thinking
on the shield, which Washington says is aimed at countering
"rogue states" like Iran, is a holdover from the Cold War era.


But in her own Cold War slip, Rice went on to refer to the former
Soviet Union in her response to Russia's protests over the US
plan to station missile interceptors in eastern Europe.


"Let's be real about this. The idea that somehow 10 interceptors
and a few radars in eastern Europe are going to threaten the
Soviet strategic return is clearly ludicrous and everybody knows
it," she said during a joint press conference with Norwegian
Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere.


"The Russians have thousands of warheads. The idea that somehow
you can stop the Russian strategic nuclear deterrent with a few
interceptors just doesn't make sense," she said.


Washington announced in January that it wanted to set up 10
missile interceptors in Poland and a tracking radar in the Czech
Republic, and hopes to have the network operational by 2013.


Russia fears the system could target its missile arsenal and
start a new arms race, and it disagrees on the US assessment that
Iran could obtain weapons within a decade that would have the
range to strike at Europe.


Russia's protests over the missile plan soared to a new level
Thursday when Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened to
withdraw from a landmark Cold War-era arms treaty limiting
military forces in Europe.


Putin said Russia's complaints about the Conventional Forces in
Europe (CFE) treaty would be raised later Thursday at the meeting
here of the ministerial NATO-Russia council.


In a state of the union speech, Putin linked the US missile plans
to the CFE treaty, stating: "It is high time for our partners to
deliver their contribution to arms reduction, not just in word
but in deed."


He said the missile defence plan, if carried out, would mark an
unprecedented deployment in Europe of US strategic weaponry and
said this was an issue that should be of concern not just in US-
Russian bilateral relations but on the continent as a whole.


Rice said Washington was "perfectly willing to spend as much time
as we need to to demystify for the Russians what we are doing."


"But we have to continue it on the basis of a realistic
assessment of what we are proposing, not one that is grounded in
the eighties," she said.

