

Two of the world's most secretive nations, military-run Myanmar
and communist North Korea, agreed Thursday to restore diplomatic
relations after more than two decades.


Both are outcasts in the eyes of much of the Western world.
Myanmar has been under military rule since 1962 and is widely
accused of rights abuses.


North Korea is also accused of massive rights abuses, and its
missile and nuclear programmes have attracted international
condemnation and sanctions. But both retain diplomatic relations
with scores of countries.


Myanmar has formal ties with some 65 countries including former
colonial power Britain. About half of them have embassies in
Yangon.


The United States, Myanmar's fiercest critic, is building a new,
fortress-like compound for its embassy in the city.


Construction began just before the military government announced
it was moving the seat of government to its new administrative
capital Naypyidaw, in the centre of the country.


So far none of the embassies in Yangon has announced a move to
Naypyidaw, although there is speculation that North Korea could
become the first.


Myanmar's neighbours have tried to draw it out by bringing it
into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 1997.


ASEAN's failure to encourage the generals to make good on
promises of democratic reform have embarrassed many members, and
become a sticking point in the bloc's efforts to negotiate a
free-trade deal with the European Union.


North Korea maintains ties with 155 countries, according to South
Korea's foreign ministry, of whom all but three also have
relations with Seoul.


The most glaring exception is the United States, its principal
adversary in the 1950-53 Korean War, whose interests are
represented by the Swedish embassy in Pyongyang.


North Korea joined the United Nations in 1991 and also belongs to
a variety of other international organisations. In July 2000 it
began taking part in the ASEAN Regional Forum on security
affairs, along with the US.


Under a six-nation agreement reached in February, the North
agreed to disable its nuclear programmes in exchange for one
million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid as well as security
and diplomatic benefits.


The deal provides for talks between the North and the United
States and Japan on normalising relations.

