

Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said Thursday that talks with a
senior EU official had made progress towards a "united view" on
ending the crisis over Iran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment.


"I think in some areas we are approaching a united view and that
is to say the best approach is to have the issue settled through
negotiation," Larijani told journalists after meeting in Ankara
for a second day with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


Solana had said ahead of Thursday's meeting that he did not
expect a "great breakthrough" in what is a first round of new
talks to get Iran to heed UN calls to halt uranium enrichment,
which makes fuel for civilian reactors but also the raw material
for atom bombs.


Neither negotiator gave details or said whether a compromise was
possible between the entrenched UN and Iranian positions.


Solana said after the meeting that there had not been "specific
discussions" on suspending uranium enrichment.


"We have moved on in general terms. Some progress has been made.
As you know the situation is difficult. We will have another
meeting before two weeks," Solana said.


The talks here were the first face-to-face meetings between
Larijani and Solana, who represents the five permanent UN
Security Council members plus Germany, since the Council in March
imposed a second round of limited sanctions on Iran.


More talks are scheduled in two weeks, Larijani said Wednesday.


"We cannot make miracles but we have tried to move a little bit
the dossier forward," Solana said about the five-year-old crisis
over US charges that Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons.


"I think the fact that we are again together . . . in itself is a
very important development," Solana said.


Larijani said the two sides were "aiming just to reach out for a
common paradigm to help settling this problem."


Solana said the talks had been "constructive."


The two men resumed talks at their hotel after meeting for a
breakfast with Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul. Solana is
to leave Ankara later Thursday for Oslo for a meeting with NATO
ministers.


Tehran denies developing nuclear weapons, insisting its programme
is a peaceful effort to generate civilian nuclear power.


Last June, the six world powers offered economic, technical and
security benefits if Iran agreed to suspend uranium enrichment,
but Tehran pressed ahead and negotiations never started.


In several rounds of talks, the last in February, Larijani and
Solana had failed to find a way to start meetings with the six.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start formal talks, the two sides remain far apart in
the crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


But the six world powers were ready to compromise and give Iran a
face-saving chance to edge its way slowly into stopping uranium
enrichment, the diplomats said.


One diplomat said a new idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond enrichment activities it has already
started, opening the way for further talks with Solana while the
UN holds off on further sanctions.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.

