

North Korea said Saturday that it had begun preparations to
shutdown and seal its key Yongbyon atomic reactor in a step
toward honouring a landmark nuclear disarmament deal.


Pyongyang was also willing to start moving towards disabling its
nuclear facilities but this would depend on how quickly it was
rewarded for such actions, South Korean nuclear envoy Chun Yung-
woo told reporters in Beijing.


Christpher Hill, the US chief delegate, hailed the statement from
the North Koreans, saying it was "balanced and constructive and
indicated that they are under way and fulfilling their
obligations."


"I think they referred to starting the preparations," he told
reporters here. "I don't think they have started to shut down the
facilities."


Under a February 13 accord, Pyongyang promised to begin shutting
down its nuclear programme within two months in exchange for
energy aid and diplomatic concessions.


Hill and Chun were speaking after North Korean officials made the
statement at working-level talks, between the six nations
involved in the state's nuclear disarmament, ahead of the next
round of formal negotiations here Monday.


The US envoy said the negotiations, involving the two Koreas, the
United States, Japan and Russia and host China, would last two
days.


Progress on the agreement has been hindered by Pyongyang's
demands that Washington release some 25 million dollars of North
Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank under US financial sanctions.


North Korea's chief nuclear negotiator earlier Saturday said the
country would not close its facilities until the United States
released all the funds.


"If the United States does not remove all of its restriction on
our funds at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), we cannot shut down our
nuclear facilities at Yongbyon," Kim Kye-Gwan told reporters on
arrival in Beijing.


The US Treasury announced on Wednesday that it had cleared the
way for the release of the funds frozen in the Macau-based BDA.


In its ruling, the US Treasury barred US banks from dealing with
BDA, an institution it said had laundered money for reclusive
North Korea.


But the move now leaves it up to the Macau authorities to decide
what to do with the cash after the bank was left in receivership,
a US Treasury official said Saturday following talks with
authorities in the former Portuguese enclave.


"It will be for the Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the funds, whether to release it or not. We did conduct an
investigation and hope our investigation will be helpful to their
determination," Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel Glaser told
reporters in Hong Kong before heading to Beijing.


Hill said he was confident that the money would be released into
North Korean coffers fast enough to avoid blocking the
disarmament process.


"We expect money to be moving very quickly in terms of completing
this whole case and finally resolving it," he said.


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday had hailed US moves to
resolve the financial sanctions as a "landmark event," raising
hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


Hill said he had not seen Kim on Saturday but expected to meet
with him possibly on Sunday when the working group resumes talks
on denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula.


UN atomic agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei had said on Friday that
he hoped an April 13 deadline could be met for starting to
dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons programme.


ElBaradei told reporters on returning to Vienna after visits to
Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the North Koreans "still
would like to see that deadline respected and we still hope to do
it by April 13."


"If the financial sanctions are over, then we expect the DPRK
(North Korea) to invite us to work out the modalities of
monitoring and verification" of North Korea's deal to close and
seal its Yongbyon plutonium-producing reactor by April 13, the
IAEA director general said.


That would be 60 days after the six-party agreement reached in
Beijing on February 13.

