

Wayne Rooney and Park Ji-Sung both scored twice as Manchester
United moved another step closer to regaining the Premiership
title with an emphatic 4-1 victory over Bolton on Saturday.


With closest rivals Chelsea not kicking off until later in the
day, United were able to temporarily extend their lead at the top
of the table to nine points following their fourth straight
league win.


Sir Alex Ferguson's side broke the deadlock in the 14th minute
and never looked back as Bolton succumbed tamely to their third
successive defeat.


Ferguson made just one change to the side which earned a draw at
Middlesbrough in the FA Cup quarter-finals, recalling Park to
replace Henrik Larsson, who has returned to Sweden.


United were also without the suspended Paul Scholes but
Ferguson's decision to put his faith in Park was to prove
inspired.


Bolton welcomed back influential striker Kevin Davies, who has
been sidelined since January with a chipped bone in his foot.


It was positive news for Allardyce as his side looked to re-
establish their hopes of UEFA Cup qualification following a poor
run of three defeats in the last six outings.


The visitors could have made the perfect start inside the opening
minute when United conceded possession to Nicolas Anelka deep
inside their own half, but the French international saw his low
shot whistle just wide.


It took United just six minutes to create their first opening but
Park wasted it when he should have scored.


Gabriel Heinze's cross was headed straight at Jussi Jaaskelainen
but the Bolton keeper could only parry the ball straight into the
path of Park, only for the South Korean international to scoop
his shot over from close range.


Park made amends eight minutes later as United broke the deadlock
and threatened to run riot.


Ronaldo was allowed to charge down the left flank and reach the
byline before squaring for Park to side-foot home from eight
yards out. Less than four minutes later Ferguson's men doubled
their advantage as the visitors began to crumble.


Once again Ronaldo was the instigator, tearing through the heart
of midfield before releasing Rooney who calmly chipped the
advancing Jaaskelainen to make it 2-0.


The game was over as a contest 20 minutes before half time when
Jaaskelainen fumbled a long range shot from Ronaldo, allowing
Park the simple task of extending United's lead with his second
goal of the game.


United refused to take their foot off the pedal and continued to
create chances in a game that was nothing more than a training
exercise for Ferguson's men.


But Bolton were relieved to see United's finishing start to let
them down as Ronaldo shot wide twice and then Ryan Giggs chipped
agonisingly wide.


Rooney completed the rout 15 minutes from time after being sent
clear by substitute Alan Smith, who was making his first league
appearance since breaking a leg and dislocating an ankle in
February of last year.


Smith's first-time pass was well-judged and Rooney's finish was
equally high- quality, the England forward smashing an
unstoppable drive past the helpless Jaaskelainen with the outside
of his right boot.


Gary Speed notched a consolation penalty with three minutes
remaining but it was meaningless to the outcome.


The only sour note on another successful afternoon for United was
a serious ankle injury to captain Gary Neville, who hobbled off
inside 10 minutes following an accidental challenge with Gary
Speed.

