

Bombers detonated explosives on three trucks carrying a toxic gas
amid traffic in western Iraq, killing at least two police and
leaving 350 civilians needing treatment, the US military said
Saturday.


All three attacks were carried out between 4.11 pm (1311 GMT) and
7.13 pm on Friday, two of them just south of the town of Fallujah
and one northeast of the nearby city of Ramadi, both hotbeds of
Al-Qaeda militants.


"Approximately 350 Iraqi civilians and six coalition force
members were treated for chlorine gas exposure," said Lieutenant
Roger Hollenbeck of the US-led Multinational Division West, based
in Ramadi.


Iraqi state television reported that at least six people were
killed in the blasts, but the US military could initially only
confirm the deaths of two Iraqi policemen in the second
explosion, in Ameriyah, outside Fallujah.


"Coalition forces confirmed that the Ameriyah citizens exposed to
the chlorine were treated locally for symptoms ranging from minor
skin and lung irritation to vomiting," Hollenbeck said in a
statement.


In each attack, a suicide bomber detonated a vehicle packed with
explosives and gas canisters near police and civilian targets in
crowded areas, a tactic which has become a hallmark of Al-Qaeda
in Iraq.


Iraqi interior ministry operations director Brigadier General
Abdel Karim Khalaf confirmed the bombings and suggested they may
have been carried out in revenge for recent government successes
against insurgents in Ramadi.


The attacks brought the number of such bombings since January 28
in western Iraq's Anbar province -- the heartland of the
insurgency -- to five. Two similar dirty bomb blasts been
reported in the capital Baghdad.


Iraqi and US forces have launched a large-scale operation in and
around the capital to root out insurgents and quell sectarian
violence.


Meanwhile, a coalition of Sunni tribes from Anbar have united in
opposition to Al-Qaeda, sending thousands of young men to join
the government security forces and cooperating with US and Iraqi
commanders.


In response, the insurgents have modified their tactics, adding
gas bombs to their arsenal and striking soft targets in the belt
of small towns around the capital that are thus far beyond the
reach of the security plan.

