

Inhabitants of a small Czech village voted on Saturday in a local
referendum on a US proposal to construct part of its anti-missile
defence system on a nearby army base.


A total of 90 residents in Trokavec are eligible to vote on the
proposed radar site selected by US military experts at the base,
two kilometres (1.2 miles) from the village.


Voting began at 0700 GMT and was to end at 1700 GMT, with results
expected to be known by 1830 GMT.


Trokavec's mayor Jan Neoral, an independent, told AFP: "We want
to appeal to the government so that it knows the inhabitants are
strongly against" the siting of the radar, which is being
championed by the country's Prime Minister Mirek Topanek.


Whatever the outcome, the vote will only have a symbolic value,
however, as the government has resolutely refused to hold a
national referendum and instead has chosen to seek parliamentary
approval of Washington's request.


But neighbouring villages in the forested, hilly countryside
around 60 kilometres (40 miles) from Prague, also intend to hold
their own referendums over the next weeks, Neoral told AFP.


"If the other villages rally behind us, the government's task
will be much more difficult," he said.


More than half of eligible voters had gone to the polls at
midday.


"We have nothing against the Americans," said resident Ladislav
Straka. "If it were the Russians or the Japanese, it would be the
same. We don't want it."


The mayor said he expected all residents to vote.


"Everyone has promised to turn out. One of them is actually in
hospital, so there should be 89 (voters) in my opinion," he said.


Voters are being asked to react in the affirmative or negative to
the following text: "I agree that the mayor's office in Trokavec
should undertake the necessary legal proceedings to prevent the
construction of the radar station of the United States of America
on the military terrain at Brdy."


Milena Huskova, a 52-year-old labrador breeder, was also against
the plan.


"The radar can have a negative impact on us, on the animals and
on nature, so we don't want it," Huskova said.


According to a survey by the CVVM institute in March, around six
out of 10 Czechs are opposed to hosting the X-band radar, which
would detect a missile attack. Ten interceptor missiles based in
Poland would shoot it out of the sky.


On the political level, the country's strong Communist Party has
led attacks on the proposed radar. The main opposition party, the
Social Democrats, is demanding a referendum, and the Green Party,
which forms part of the centre- right governing coalition, wants
the base integrated in EU and NATO defence plans.


The proposed rollout of the US missile shield in Central Europe
has split European countries. But a hostile Germany has failed to
open a debate about it within NATO, which considers the decision
a purely bilateral issue between the US and its staunch allies,
the Czech Republic and Poland.


Moscow has protested against the construction of a defence system
installed on its doorstep.


The US has offered assurances that the Czech and Polish bases are
aimed at completing coverage from installations already in place
in the United States, Britain and Greenland and that they are
only aimed at preventing long range missile attacks from the
Middle East.

