

Thousands of people were expected to converge on the center of
the US capital Saturday and march on the Pentagon to protest the
Iraq war, following the arrest of about 100 people during an
anti-war vigil the night before.


Next week marks four years since the US-led invasion of Iraq.


"We're feeling a shift in the general population of the country
who are now opposed to the war and are now thinking about doing
something about it, not only about voting but becoming active in
the anti-war struggle," Bill Hackwell, a spokesman for protest
organizer Act Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER), told AFP.


Late Friday, about 100 peace activists, including members of the
clergy, were arrested as they held a vigil on a sidewalk on front
of the White House, ignoring police orders to disperse.


"Hopefully, I think it really speaks truth to power," said Kate
Manzanares, a 29 -year-old doctor from Virginia, who watched the
arrests along with about 1,000 other protesters.


Addressing the crowd, pastor Lennox Yearwood said it was time for
President George W. Bush to bring US troops home from Iraq.


"Having more than 3,200 American soldiers and 600,000 Iraqis
killed over four years, it's time to say 'enough is enough,'" he
said.


Charlie Koenen, a 45-year-old beekeeper, traveled to Washington
all the way from the northern state of Wisconsin.


"We are here to say that our God is not a God who will tell you
to destroy nations," he told AFP.


Earlier in the day, the group that organized the vigil, Christian
Peace Witness for Iraq, held a service at Washington's National
Cathedral that was attended by 3,500-4,000 people, organizers
said.


The war has grown increasingly unpopular, with recent polls
showing that a majority of Americans now say the invasion was a
mistake and want the US government to set a timetable for the
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq.


Hackwell said more Americans are demanding change because too
much money is being spent on the war rather than social needs
like health care, education and employment.


"It is not an exaggeration to make this connection about the
funding that gets cut for needed social programs and the money
going to the Pentagon," he said.


War veterans and their families were to lead the march starting
at 12:30 pm (1630 GMT).


Other anti-war events are planned in the next few days across the
country and abroad.


In Los Angeles, thousands of protesters are expected to take the
streets of Hollywood Saturday and another ANSWER demonstration is
expected in San Francisco.


United for Peace and Justice, which describes itself as the
largest anti-war coalition in the United States, said it was
expecting thousands of people to turn up at a protest in New York
on Sunday.


"The national anti-war movement is planning a unified surge of
protest actions calling on Congress to end the occupation and for
the immediate withdrawal of US troops," the group said in a
statement.


The leftist group MoveOn.org is also organizing candlelight
vigils for Monday in Washington and across the country, spokesman
Steve Hoffman said.


Anti-war protests are also planned in about a dozen of cities in
Spain, including Madrid and Barcelona.


Peace activists have heavily mobilized since Democrats took
control of Congress from Bush's Republicans in November elections
marked by voter anger at the war.


Activists want the Democratic-led Congress to push hard for the
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq, where more than 3,200 American
soldiers and tens of thousands of Iraqi civilians have died since
the war began.


The protests come on the heels of congressional votes on Iraq.


Democrats failed to pass in the Senate a plan to withdraw US
troops by March 2008, although a measure calling for a pullout by
September 2008 passed a key panel in the House of Representatives
Thursday.

