

Tottenham goalkeeper Paul Robinson embarrassed his England rival
Ben Foster with a bizarre goal in his side's 3-1 win against
Watford on Saturday.


Robinson scored from 75 yards out when his free-kick bounced over
Foster to put Tottenham two goals ahead after Jermaine Jenas had
opened the scoring.


Hossam Ghaly added a third for Martin Jol's in-form team before
Darius Henderson pulled one back in the last minute for doomed
Watford.


But it was Robinson who took centre stage in a match that had
been billed as a battle between England's top two keepers. His
amazing effort owed more to luck than judgement, but Foster was
left to rue a misjudgement that will hardly help his chances of
displacing Robinson as his country's first choice stopper.


Robinson was almost certain to start England's forthcoming Euro
2008 qualifiers after coach Steve McClaren backed him this week,
but the manner of the second goal of his career will have ended
any lingering doubts.


Tottenham's victory moved them into sixth place and was the ideal
preparation for Monday's FA Cup quarter-final replay against
Chelsea. In contrast, Watford look certain to go down after a
defeat that left them 11 points from safety.


With that Chelsea clash in mind, Jol rested Dimitar Berbatov,
Aaron Lennon and Robbie Keane.


But Spurs were still able to dominate the first half. Steed
Malbranque created the first chance in the 17th minute when he
got to the byline and cut a cross back, only for Mido to blast
over.


Jenas was back in action after missing three matches with a groin
injury and he looked determined to make up for lost time.


He was at the heart of all Tottenham's best moments and he worked
space for a volley that flashed wide from the edge of the area.


Jenas prompted another chance with a fine pass that picked out
Jermain Defoe midway through the half. Defoe tested Foster with a
smart snapshot, but the Watford keeper was equal to it.


Watford's only first half chance came from a generous piece of
defending by the hosts. Pascal Chimbonda's pass went straight to
Tamas Priskin but the Hungarian's shot was blocked for a corner.


Chimbonda got it right a few moments later though when his assist
allowed Jenas to break the deadlock in the 41st minute.


The French defender's cross picked out Jenas and he buried a
header beyond Foster for his fifth goal in seven appearances.


Tottenham had won six of their previous seven matches, scoring 23
goals in the process, but they sealed victory here in the most
bizarre manner after 63 minutes.


Foster had just saved well from Tom Huddlestone and when Robinson
launched a huge clearance from well inside the Tottenham half
there seemed to be little danger.


But Foster, on loan from Manchester United, couldn't read the
bounce and was left to hold his head in shame as the ball looped
over him into the net.


Ghaly's fine low strike in the 85th minute rubbed salt into
Foster's wounds and Henderson's last minute tap-in was no
consolation for the visitors.

