

Sweden's Social Democrats, who have dominated the country's
postwar politics but have been in opposition since a crushing
election defeat in September, on Saturday elected their first
woman leader at a party congress.


Mona Sahlin, 50, was elected in a vote seen as a formality as she
was the sole candidate nominated for the leadership by an
electoral committee.


The party's 350 delegates unanimously chose Sahlin, shouting a
resounding "yes" when her name was put to them.


She takes over from Goeran Persson, the former prime minister who
had led the party since 1996 and who was ousted by a centre-right
coalition headed by Fredrik Reinfeldt in September's legislative
vote.


Sahlin's election also sets the scene for her to become Sweden's
first woman prime minister if she leads the party to a comeback
in the next legislative elections in 2010.


In the Swedish system, the leader of the biggest party
traditionally occupies the post of prime minister.


"I feel an enormous amount of pride to be the first woman leader
of our party" in its 118-year history, a teary-eyed Sahlin told
delegates.


A born-and-bred Social Democrat, she joined its youth wing in her
early teens and rose through the ranks to become the party's
first woman secretary in 1992.


She has held several cabinet posts throughout her career, and has
served as deputy prime minister.


Sahlin is however a controversial figure within the party and was
not the first choice for the leadership, winning the nomination
by default after several other heavyweights bowed out of the
race.


Her career has been marked by both glorious periods where she has
been the party's darling and stormy episodes, including the
famous 1995 "Toblerone affair" when she was found to have charged
private purchases, including a chocolate bar, to her government
credit card.


The Social Democrats' goal is now clear: to regain control of the
government in 2010. In the past 75 years, the party has spent
only 10 years in opposition.


"We have three-and-a-half years to give our all to Social
Democratic ideas, to fight right up until the election in 2010,
and to change parts of the party organisation," she said during
her acceptance speech on Saturday.


She has already declared three priorities for her leadership:
global warming, labour market issues, and the fight against
social injustice.

