

The Canterbury Crusaders relaunched their Super 14 season
Saturday, surging four places up the ladder with an overwhelming
32-10 victory over a lacklustre Northern Bulls.


In their final match before the return of their seven "resting"
All Blacks, the defending champions took a maximum five points,
complementing their win with a four-try bonus point.


Two of the tries were scored in a five-minute blitz at the start
of the second half which saw the Crusaders extend their lead from
18-3 at the turn to an emphatic 32-3 advantage.


Although the Bulls took to the paddock with a massive 50-kilogram
advantage in the forwards, it was the lighter and more
technically correct Crusaders who won the battle up front.


Looking rejuvenated after a bye last week, the Crusaders erased
the memories of the botched performance against the Sharks by
controlling from the start.


With forgotten All Blacks back rower Mose Tuali'i running
rampant, along with novice lock Michael Paterson, the Crusaders
made light of the heavy weight disadvantage and controlled the
forward exchanges.


With a mixture of short kicks and long cut-out passes from
flyhalf Stephen Brett, the Crusaders were able to slice the Bulls
backline defence to shreds.


By contrast the Bulls, with lock and captain Victor Matfield on
the bench until the last quarter, turned over a wealth of
possession.


The Crusaders were 8-0 up inside 10 minutes courtesy of a Brett
penalty and a try to flanker Johnny Leo'o, both coming from
turnover ball.


Derick Hougaard and Brett traded penalties before Crusaders wing
Rico Gear scored when the Bulls failed to control a chip kick
from Scott Hamilton and the Crusaders were up 18-3 at half-time.


Just 40 seconds after the resumption, teenage midfielder Tim
Bateman crossed the line after sweeping past three weak tackle
attempts, and Hamilton touched down minutes later when Leo'o
busted through lazy tacklers.


Although the Bulls came back with a try to flanker Wickus van
Heerden, they never seriously threatened to generate the same
authority which carried them to wins over the Waratahs and
Brumbies in recent weeks.


The makeshift Crusaders lifted their record to three wins from
six matches to set the platform for the second half of the season
when they are at full strength.


"That was our focus. We want to make them (the seven resting All
Blacks) push for a position not just give them a position and I
think we've done that. We've a young side here," said captain
Corey Flynn.


The Bulls are in fourth place just one point ahead of the
Crusaders who leaped from ninth to fifth.

