

Real Madrid coach Fabio Capello said that the Spanish giants can
still salvage their stuttering season by winning the La Liga
title, the Italian told a press conference here Saturday.


The 29-times Spanish champions are currently in fourth place in
the Spanish title race, five points behind league leaders and
bitter rivals Barcelona, but Real are out of both the Champions
League and the Spanish Cup.


"I am always an optimist and we can win the league but to do that
we have to win all our games in our own stadium because it's here
that we are losing the title," said Capello.


Real face relegation-threatened Gimnastic Tarragona, who are
second from bottom although they beat second-placed Sevilla 1-0
last week, on Sunday.


"It's the truth, we can still achieve some important things. I
liked a lot what I saw in training this week and in the days
before playing Barcelona last Saturday. Psychologically, the
players are in top form too," added Capello.


Real drew 3-3 at Barcelona only losing out on a memorable victory
in the Nou Camp thanks to an injury-time equaliser from the
Catalan club's Argentine teenager Lionel Messi.


"I hope that we will carry on playing like we did against
Barcelona. The support of the public is important, they can help
you through difficult moments. We win and lose together," added
Capello.


In recent weeks, the Real faithful in the Santiago Bernabeu have
often been whistling their disappoval of Capello and his tactics.


There have also been rumours in the Spanish media, in the wake of
their Champions League defeat at Bayern Munich two weeks ago,
that he was about to be fired.


"If we win and play well that would be perfect but the most
important thing is that we win becuase we have given away too
many points at home. The numbers say that clearly," reflected
Capello.


Real have drawn four and lost three of their 12 league games at
home this season.


Despite Gimnastic's lowly status, Capello is not being complacent
about their latest visitors.


He is well aware that Real's losses in their Santiago Bernabeu
stadium this season have included humiliating defeats by
strugglers Celta Vigo and Levante.


"We have to beat a team that is playing well at the moment and
has had three good games. They have scored four goals and only
conceded one in that time, and against opponents like Sevilla and
Valencia," added Capello.

