

South Africa's Western Stormers prolonged the Super 14 misery for
the New South Wales Waratahs with a scrambling 16-10 victory here
Saturday.


It was the Cape Town team's third win over the Waratahs in five
trips to Sydney and left the home team wallowing in second-last
place on the standings after seven rounds.


Inspirational skipper Luke Watson scored the Stormers' sole try
midway through the second half in damp conditions and fly-half
Peter Grant was immaculate with his kicking landing three penalty
goals and a conversion from his four attempts.


It continued a hot-and-cold run of form for the Stormers, who
have split their previous four games, but have now added the
scalp of the Waratahs to their win over the Wellington Hurricanes
in New Zealand a fortnight ago.


Watson said the Stormers played a more conservative game against
the Waratahs in their search for more playing consistency and
stuck to a disciplined game-plan.


The Stormers had a few late shaky moments when the Waratahs,
trailing 3-16, were awarded a penalty try and Des Fountain was
yellow-carded with six minutes left when he knocked down an
intended pass to Waratahs' winger Lote Tuqiri who looked set to
score in the corner.


But even though the Waratahs pulled to within six points, the
Stormers ran down the clock to move to 10th on the standings.


It was another tale of woe for the Waratahs, last year's semi-
finalists, who have yet to win at home in four games this season
and have now gone five games without a win for the first time in
Super rugby for eight years.


Wallaby winger Tuqiri, who this week signed a new lucrative five-
year contract to stay in rugby, was largely anonymous in the
match and Waratahs' coach Ewen McKenzie replaced young fly-half
Kurtley Beale, apparently uninjured with 25 minutes left.


The Waratahs, playing well down in confidence, were atrocious
with their handling once again, making 19 errors while their
normally secure defence looked shaky with over 20 mis-tackles.


The Stormers have a tough match ahead next week against the six-
time champion Canterbury Crusaders, who are expected to get all
their seven rested All Blacks back for duty in Christchurch,
while it gets no easier for the Waratahs who travel to the
leaders Auckland Blues.

