

The African Union on Saturday called on Zimbabwe to respect human
rights and democratic principles, in its strongest comments yet
on the political crisis engulfing the country.


AU commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare "recalls the need for the
scrupulous respect for human rights and democratic principles in
Zimbabwe," the pan-African body said in a statement.


"He urges all concerned parties to commence a sincere and
constructive dialogue in order to resolve the problems facing
Zimbabwe."


The statement said that Konare had followed recent developments
in Zimbabwe with "great concern."


Pressure has mounted on Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe after
police last Sunday crushed an opposition Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) rally in Harare and arrested its leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and other opposition activists for defying a police
ban.


Tsvangirai and several of his supporters were beaten up while in
police custody.


African Union chairman John Kufuor on Wednesday said the
situation in Zimbabwe was "embarrassing," but defended the AU
response to the crisis.


Demonstrators in London, where he was speaking, denounced the
African body's failure to condemn Mugabe outright.


Mugabe has brushed aside international condemnation sparked by
the images of a badly-beaten Tsvangirai, saying Western
governments could "go hang", and accusing the opposition of
waging a violent campaign against him.


Zimbabwe's opposition on Friday vowed to see through its campaign
to topple Mugabe as its leader left hospital in a wheelchair.


African leaders have acknowledged the dangers they face from the
economic meltdown in Zimbabwe, where inflation stands at 1,730
percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


But they have been reluctant to speak out, despite pressure for
regime change from the West.


South African Nobel laureate Desmond Tutu on Friday said African
leaders should be ashamed over the crisis in Zimbabwe.


Tutu said leaders on the continent had let Zimbabweans down many
times, holding 83-year-old Mugabe in high regard and insisting
that they respect his sovereignty.


Meanwhile, three Southern African Development Community (SADC)
countries charged with dealing with Zimbabwe -- Tanzania, Namibia
and Lesotho -- said Friday they would meet on March 26 and 27 in
Dar es Salaam to help find a solution.


The announcement came a day after talks with Mugabe that
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete hailed as a "great success."


The AU, which replaced the Organisation of African Unity in 2002,
comprises 53 African states and aims to promote political, social
and economic development as well as security on the continent.

