

A proposed industrial zone will be scrapped in the Indian village
where police shot dead 14 residents protesting its development,
the ruling party of the state said Saturday.


"There will be no SEZ (Special Economic Zone) in Nandigram," said
Biman Bose, West Bengal secretary of the Communist Party of India
(Marxist).


Protesters in Nandigram village, 120 kilometres (75 miles) south
of Kolkata, were killed Wednesday when police opened fire in the
bloodiest demonstration yet against state government plans to buy
land to set up the zones.


The announcement came after a statewide one-day general strike on
Friday protesting the killings in Nandigram where the government
planned to set up a chemical industry hub backed by the Salim
Group, an Indonesian conglomerate.


More than 50 people were injured in clashes and over 800 people
detained as protesters angered over the killings tried to torch
government offices and buses on Friday.


Police had been ordered by the government to break through the
blockade at Nandigram which had been a no-go area for authorities
since 11 people died in protests there against SEZs in January.


The unrest in January led the federal government to suspend plans
for scores of such zones -- privately run enclaves with world-
class infrastructure and tax breaks to lure draw foreign
investment.


The SEZs, planned nationwide, are seen as central to India's
drive to boost economic growth and draw foreign investment.


Police said on Wednesday they had fired in self-defence in
Nandigram as thousands of demonstrators hurled stones and
homemade bombs.


The latest violence has renewed debate over whether farmland
should be used for industry in India, where some two-thirds of
the billion-plus population live off agriculture.


Bose, after a meeting of the Left Front, a nine-party coalition,
told reporters the government would also withdraw police in
phases from Nandigram, but gave no time frame.


All was quiet in Nandigram on Saturday, police said.


"Two police camps have been set up and security men have been
asked to take all necessary measures for the protection of the
villagers," West Bengal police chief Raj Kanojia told AFP.


The protests have piled pressure on the federal government to
review its policy on SEZs, of which there are so far 14 in
operation in India.


On Friday, the government repeated that approvals will not be
granted for SEZs if there are disagreements over land
acquisition.

