

Hundreds of thousands of revellers throughout Ireland were
gathering Saturday for colourful parades and events celebrating
the national St Patrick's Day holiday.


The national feast day, when much Guinness and other alcohol is
tradionally drunk, showcases Ireland to give an early kick-start
to the country's tourism season.


The festival generates an estimated 60 million euros (79 million
dollars) in tourism revenue.


It is now Dublin's biggest annual event, while many other
countries are holding their own parties to cater for expatriate
Irish communities.


Reclusive North Korea meanwhile sent St Patrick's day greetings
to Irish President Mary McAleese.


In his message, North Korea's number two Kim Yong-Nam said he
believed friendly relations between the two countries would
develop on good terms and "wished the president great success in
the work for the prosperity of the country," the offical Korean
Central News Agency reported.


In Ireland the festivities culminate in the capital with the
televised parade that is watched by an estimated worldwide
audience of six million.


The country's other main cities and towns are also holding
parades, while a big party was expected in New York. In China,
Shanghai was holding its first official St Patrick's Day party.


In Ireland, the County Cork village of Dripsey in the south of
the country is claiming its 25 metre route between two pubs is
the shortest St Patrick's Day parade in the world.


The theme of the Dublin parade this year is "Legendary" with
about 500,000 expected to line the route.


The pageantry and razzmatazz this year also includes a ceili mor
(big dance), a skyfest firework display, street theatre, funfairs
and a light show.


Dublin's parade will have a multi-cultural theme with substantial
contributions from the new Irish immigrant communities.


The City Fusion pageant, 'Citychange', will include immigrant
groups from France, Poland, Lithuania, Indonesia, India, Nigeria,
Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
and Angola.


The 4,000 people involved in the parade will include visiting
performing groups from Europe, India, Africa and the United
States.


Ireland had traditionally been a country of emigration but almost
11 percent of the workforce are now immigrants attracted to the
country in recent years by the prosperity of the so-called Celtic
Tiger boom.

