

Manchester United captain Gary Neville will miss England's Euro
2008 qualifiers against Israel and Andorra after suffering ankle
ligament damage that will keep him out for three weeks.


Neville limped out of United's 4-1 win over Bolton on Saturday
when he turned an ankle in a first half tackle with Gary Speed.


The right-back will not be fit in time to play for England in
Israel next Saturday or for their clash with Andorra the
following Wednesday.


United boss Sir Alex Ferguson, who will turn to Wes Brown to
deputise in his side's FA Cup quarter-final replay against
Middlesbrough on Monday, confirmed. "It is ligament damage and he
will be out for three weeks. It is a blow, there's no question
about that.


"Wes Brown will continue now. He will play on Monday. I was going
to rest Gary out on Monday anyway to be honest."


Neville's injury adds to United's growing injury worries with
Mikael Silvestre, Louis Saha and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer already
sidelined.


But Ferguson insists those blows have only given his players
renewed determination to prove they can overcome any obstacles as
they chase the treble.


Premiership leaders United destroyed Bolton with a performance
worthy of champions. Wayne Rooney and Park Ji-Sung scored twice
each before Speed's penalty for Bolton.


Ferguson said: "It was a terrific result against a team that make
you work all day. The most pleasing aspect was to get four goals
at home at this time of year.


"That emphasises the confidence the team has in each other and
themselves. When Gary got his injury there was a hush in the
crowd but we weren't deterred.


"(Rio) Ferdinand and (Nemanja) Vidic laid the foundation for us
and allowed Wes Brown to come in and have a fantastic game.
People are saying it is another injury but you can see the
resilience of this team, they are not going to be put back at
all."


Bolton manager Sam Allardyce was furious with his team's
lacklustre display and he said: "I can't understand how we
conceded three goals from our dead-ball situations. We had worked
on those basics all week.


"We are a side that has to play a percentage game because we have
not got the same quality as them. But we took a goal kick and
they scored, then we took a long throw and they scored.


"What probably typified it was the final goal. We took a free-
kick and, instead of putting it deep into their defence, we
miscued it, the ball popped up and Wayne Rooney scores. That is
just embarrassing from our point of view.


"We've gifted Manchester United three goals. It was not their
brilliance or skill. Our players didn't do their jobs.


"I can't believe we've had two weeks to get things right. We have
been on the training ground all week and didn't give the players
a day off so we could play against United the right way."

