

The 'Blarney Army' were in fine voice on St Patrick's Day ahead
of Ireland's crunch Six Nations match against in-form Italy here
on Saturday.


Choruses of 'Molly Malone' and 'Fields of Athenry' rang out as
thousands of Irish fans descended on the Flaminio stadium on the
feast day of Ireland's patron saint.


The visiting fans, many of them dressed in green and white and
drinking beer in the warm sunshine, were hoping for a double
celebration with their team one of three realistically in the
hunt to win the tournament on the final day.


"We're definitely going to do it," said Ireland fan Carmel, who
came over from Dublin without a ticket and was hoping to pick one
up outside the stadium.


"I fancy Ireland to rack up a big score today, and that will pile
the pressure on France.


"Italy are in good form, but Ireland always play well here and I
feel it's our day. It has to be, it's St Patrick's Day."


Triple Crown winners Ireland are level on six points with holders
France and world champions England, but the French are the
favourites for the title as they have a superior points
difference.


Ireland are the first in action and need to beat Italy by a
decent margin to give themselves hope of their first Six Nations
title since 1985.


Italy come into the match after an unprecedented two wins in a
Six Nations campaign, but the Azzurri have been weakened by the
loss of three key players.


Outstanding flanker Mauro Bergamasco is suspended, centre Gonzalo
Canale is injured and prop Andrea Lo Cicero has flu.


Another fan Rowan, from Cork, was bullish about Ireland's chances
of winning the championship, and said winning it on St Patrick's
Day would make it extra special.


"I think we will do the business here," he said.


"There is some pressure on us, but I think that's a positive
thing and playing first will also be an advantage.


"It will be sweet if we could do it on St Paddy's Day, too. It
will mean a lot more, and give us even more reason to get drunk.


"But even if we lose, we won't be down about it. We're here in a
beautiful city, the sun is shining and the beer is good."


An estimated 19,000 Irish fans are expected to be at the 25,000
capacity Flaminio stadium.


Ireland have won all four of their previous Six Nations matches
away to Italy.

