

Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04 picked up their first win in five
games with a 1-0 win over VfB Stuttgart to open up a six-point
lead at the top of the table on Saturday.


Schalke threw down the gauntlet for second-placed Werder Bremen
to close the gap against rising-stars Mainz 05 at home on Sunday
as Serbian defender Mladen Krstajic's second-half goal was enough
to give the leaders a badly-needed win.


After Stuttgart squandered several chances to take the lead, the
break-through Schalke craved came in the 76th minute when the
visitors' defence failed to deal with a cross.


Schalke striker Kevin Kuranyi headed the ball goal-bound but
keeper Timo Hildebrand failed to hold on to it and Krstajic
pounced on the opportunity to slot home the goal from just two
metres out.


It was tough luck for Stuttgart whose Thomas Hitzlsperger had
gone close on numerous occasions.


Relegation threatened Eintracht Frankfurt did themselves a huge
favour by scrambling a 1-0 win at home to Bayern Munich, which
dented the Bavarians' aspirations of capturing a 21st Bundesliga
title and leaves them now nine-points behind Schalke.


Having gone into the match just one-place off the relegation
zone, Frankfurt's midfielder Christoph Preuss bagged a 78th
minute goal to keep Munich in fourth and move his side up three
places to 12th.


VfL Wolfsburg enjoyed a 3-1 win over second-from-bottom Bochum
after taking a 2-0 half-time lead at home.


Ghana international Isaac Boakye opened the scoring in the 21st
minute when he drew Bochum goalkeeper Jaroslav Drobny off his
line and fired his shot home.


And the hosts extended their lead when defender Alexander Madley
slipped his marker from a corner and blasted his header past
Drobny from point-blank range.


But Bochum got themselves back in the match thanks to their Greek
striker Theofanis Gekas, who finished superbly in the six-yard
box to give his side a 66th minute life-line, and in turn making
him the league's top scorer with 13 goals.


But Brazlian midifielder Marcelo Marcelinho made the win safe
with a goal in the 83rd minute.


And two goals in five minutes handed ninth-placed Alemannia
Aachen a 2-0 win over third-from-bottom Arminia Bielefeld after
23-year-old striker Jan Schlaudraff bagged his eighth goal of the
season with 19 minutes to play, only for Romanian midfielder
Laurentiu Reghecampf to convert a penalty soon after.


On Friday newly-promoted Energie Cottbus enjoyed a 1-0 win at
Hertha Berlin thanks to a goal by their Romanian striker Sergiu
Radu just after the half-time break.

