

Kosovo Serbs said on Saturday they would not accept any division
of the province from Serbia as they marked the third anniversary
of rioting that killed 19 people and displaced thousands.


Church bells rang throughout the mainly ethnic-Albanian
province's Serb enclaves exactly at midday.


"Today, when Kosovo's fate is being decided by the world powers,
we will not agree to the partition of Kosovo from Serbia," Bishop
Artemije, a leading Serb Orthodox leader in the province, said in
a speech in Gracanica.


"Whatever they decide and undertake we have to remain
determined," he said.


Candles were also lit at an Orthodox church in Gracanica, 8
kilometres southeast of the provincial capital Pristina, where
several hundred people gathered to pay tribute to eight Serbs who
were killed during the 2004 riots.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider a plan put forward by UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari
following the failure of year-long talks between Serbia and
Kosovo Albanians.


The plan, which Ahtisaari revised after a final round of talks
that ended deadlocked last week, would grant Kosovo self-rule,
its own flag and anthem and membership of international
organisations.


According to Albanian-language Kosovo media, the proposals sent
to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon contain a previously unseen
annex that recommends granting Kosovo independence with
international monitoring.


"Martti Ahtisaari is very clear in his main recommendation:
monitored independence for Kosovo is the most realistic and best
solution for Kosovo and the region," the daily Zeri quoted a
western diplomat who has seen the text as saying.


During the three days of violence in the UN-run province in March
2004, villages populated by Kosovo's minority Serbs came under
attack by ethnic Albanian extremists.


Along with the eight Serbs, 11 ethnic Albanians were killed. More
than 900 were injured, including foreign police and peacekeepers.


The NATO-led mission in Kosovo was sharply criticised for failing
to stop the rampage, in which 4,000 people, mainly Serbs, were
expelled from their homes.


Dozens of Serb Orthodox churches, monasteries and other religious
sites, some dating back centuries, were also destroyed or
damaged.


The southern Serbian province of Kosovo has been controlled by
the UN and NATO since June 1999 following a NATO air war which
forced troops loyal to late Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic to
withdraw and end a crackdown against ethnic Albanians.


In a statement to reporters at Pristina airport, before flying to
New York to attend a UN meeting on Kosovo on Monday, president
Fatmir Sejdiu said "it is very important for us to remember this
(the March riots) as a bad event and story which will never be
repeated."


"President Ahtisaari proposed a monitored independence for
Kosovo. It is very important for us that the fields in which the
international monitoring will be concentrating have to do with
security and rule of the law," he added.

