

Mashrafe Mortaza grabbed four wickets in a superb exhibition of
seam bowling as India crashed to their lowest-ever total of 191
against Bangladesh in the World Cup here on Saturday.


The fast bowler was brilliantly supported by left-arm spinners
Mohammad Rafique (3-35) and Abdur Razzak (3-38) on a day when
Bangladesh kept the pressure on India, who won the toss, right
from the opening over.


Opener Sourav Ganguly top-scored for India with a solid 66, but
even he too was not allowed to score freely by the Bangladeshi
seamers and spinners. He hit just four fours in his 129-ball
knock.


Only Yuvraj Singh played with freedom in his team's below-par
batting performance, smashing a 58-ball 47. He shared an 85-run
stand for the fifth wicket with Ganguly.


Bangladesh, seeking a win against either India or Sri Lanka to
boost chances of qualifying for the next round, bowled with great
discipline with the new ball and fielded enthusiastically to
seize the initiative.


First-timers Bermuda, the other side in Group B, lost their
opening match by 243 runs against Sri Lanka.


Mortaza and left-arm seamer Syed Rasel did not allow India to
score freely in their opening spells, while Razzak and Rafique
continued the good job to reduce the opposition to 72-4.


A little went right for India after winning the toss as they
failed to cope with Mortaza and Rasel on a pitch which offered
both bounce and movement.


Bangladesh, who had won just one of their previous 14 matches
against India, looked a different team as Mortaza and Rasel kept
non-stop pressure on the Indian batting line-up.


Mortaza troubled the top-order batsmen with his bounce and
movement, sparking celebrations in his second over when he
dismissed out-of-form opener Virender Sehwag.


Sehwag, with just one half-century in his last 13 matches, had
made only two when he looked back in horror to see his middle
stump out of the ground after inside-edging a Mortaza delivery.


Mortaza was to jolt India again when he had Robin Uthappa (nine)
caught by Aftaf Ahmed at point. He was instrumental in keeping
the batsmen silent with Rasel, who bowled his quota of 10 overs
in one disciplined spell.


Razzak and Rafique saw to it that India continued to struggle for
runs, removing batting stars Sachin Tendulkar and skipper Rahul
Dravid cheaply.


Tendulkar (seven) was caught behind, the ball hitting the pads
before going to wicket-keeper Mushfiqur Rahim. Dravid (14) was
trapped leg-before by Rafique.


Both the teams observed a minute's silence before the match in
memory of Bangladeshi cricketer Manjural Islam, who died in a
road accident near Dhaka on Friday.

