

Hundreds of thousands of revellers throughout Ireland and across
the world celebrated St Patrick's Day Saturday with colourful
parades and other festivities.


The feast day of Ireland's patron saint, when much Guinness and
other alcohol is traditionally drunk, showcases the country to
give an early kick-start to the country's tourism season.


The festival generates an estimated 60 million euros (79 million
dollars) in tourism revenue, culminating in the capital with a
televised parade watched by an estimated worldwide audience of
six million.


It is now Dublin's biggest annual event but many other countries
hold their own parties, especially those where the Irish have
settled. Up to two million were expected on the streets of New
York despite freezing temperatures.


St Patrick's Day is one of the most recognised national holidays
on the global calendar and is an excuse to party from Pretoria to
Paris, Warsaw and Washington.


Even reclusive North Korea sent greetings to Irish President Mary
McAleese, while while in China, Shanghai was also holding its
first official St Patrick's Day party.


Mingling with the crowds on Dublin's streets was Prime Minister
Bertie Ahern, just back from Washington where he had presented US
President George W. Bush with the traditional bowl of shamrock in
the White House.


"It is great to see all our new Irish all dressed up in green.
They all come out and enjoy our St Patrick's Day and that's
nice," Ahern said, referring to the many immigrants attracted by
Ireland's economic boom.


Thousands of Irish rugby fans, known as the 'Blarney Army' were
meanwhile in Rome for the crunch Six Nations match against Italy,
giving vent in the Flaminio stadium to such traditional songs as
'Molly Malone' and 'Fields of Athenry.'


They were rewarded with a crushing 51-24 victory to put the title
in sight for Ireland for the first time in 22 years.


In Sydney, where a large proportion of the population claims
Irish ancestry and which has a sizeable expatriate community,
revellers were out in force even though official St Patrick's Day
celebrations were held last week.


In Belgium, a Northern Ireland brass band was to lead the first
ever St Patrick's Day parade through the Menin Gate at Ypres to
remember Irish soldiers from both sides of the border who died
during World War I.


After centuries of emigration, an estimated 70 million people
worldwide claim an Irish connection.


But McAleese, who reviewed the Dublin parade as it passed down
O'Connell Street, the capital's main thoroughfare, said in her St
Patrick's Day greeting that immigrants from "many far-off shores"
are adding greatly to Ireland's "legendary cultural buoyancy."


Dublin's parade came with a multi-cultural theme involving
substantial contributions from the new immigrant communities, and
up to 500,000 people lined the route as it snaked through the
centre of the city.


The 4,000 people involved in the parade included visiting
performing groups from Europe, India, Africa and the United
States.


In New York some 150,000 people, many with faces painted green,
were to march in the 246th annual parade of marching bands and
pipers down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.


The parade has been dogged by controversy in recent years,
notably over excluding openly gay marchers, and has again hit
trouble this year.


The head of the organising committee sparked a furor by moving
New York firefighters from their traditional spot at the front of
the parade down the ranks, complaining that the fire fighters
always showed up drunk.


In Sydney the annual parade attracted some 60,000 people, while
the Tokyo Tower, the tallest structure in Japan and a major
tourist attraction, turned green late Saturday.


Almost 11 percent of Ireland's workforce are immigrants attracted
to the country's prosperity -- a result of the so-called Celtic
Tiger economic boom in recent years.


Amid the dancing and drinking, Ireland,s Roman Catholic Primate,
Archbishop Sean Brady, reminded people to acknowledge the
importance of St Patrick.


The patron saint, whose feast day has been in the Christian
calendar since the ninth century, is credited with converting the
country to Christianity and to have baptised thousands, ordained
priests and set up churches and monasteries.

