

England coach Duncan Fletcher insisted all was not lost for his
side at the World Cup despite their opening group game defeat
against New Zealand.


This match was the first of seven games - assuming England
qualify for the second phase, Super Eight stage out of a Group C
also featuring minnows Canada and Kenya - from which Fletcher's
men need four wins to reach the semi-finals.


But having been held to a modest 209 for seven on Friday, England
suffered a six-wicket defeat as New Zealand finished on 210 for
four with nine overs to spare despite having been 19 for three
early in their innings.


"It was an important game for us," said Fletcher at England's
team hotel here Saturday. "We realise we had to win four out of
the seven games to get to the World Cup semi-final and having
lost that one we've now got four out of six which makes our task
a little bit harder.


"To get an early win is a huge advantage but everything is not
lost yet. We've lost before and come back strongly," he added in
a reference to the way England bounced back from a 5-0 Ashes
series thrashing to win the one-day triangular tournament in
Australia, also featuring New Zealand, last month.


"The side has showed a lot of character before and hopefully
they'll do it again.


"Even if you've won a series and then you lose a game, people
don't like losing. It's a good sign to see."


England lost three wickets in seven balls for one run during a
middle-order collapse Friday that saw Paul Collingwood, Kevin
Pietersen - who top-scored with 60 - and Andrew Flintoff, out for
nought, all depart in quick succession.


"It's crucial we don't lose the middle order, especially that
experienced middle-order we've got."


Among the positives to come out of Friday's match for England
were the performances of fast bowler James Anderson who, despite
suffering a broken little right finger during practice on
Wednesday, took two early wickets on his way to a return of two
for 39 off eight overs.


The Lancashire quick missed the climax of England's series in
Australia with a recurrence of the back problem that forced him
out of most of the last English season.


"I think he's very a exciting bowler and those wickets were very
useful to us. On a wicket like that, with swing and a little bit
of seam early on he can be pretty dangerous."


England collapsed to 138 for seven before an unbroken stand of 71
between Paul Nixon (42 not out) and Liam Plunkett (29 not out)
gave the bowlers something to defend.


"Plunkett and Nixon's innings were outstanding. We might have
posted a score of 160, 170. Previously, we probably would have
not batted out the overs. It was nice to see them bat very
sensibly and give us a competitive total."


One concern, however, remains the form of Irish-born opener Ed
Joyce, who fell for nought.


Joyce is currently playing in place of fellow Middlesex left-
hander Andrew Strauss but Fletcher said the top order had to be
looked at as a collective unit. "We want someone in the top four
to bat through but you've got to be careful you don't add a lot
more pressure by over-emphasising the thing.


"It's just another pressure that you are building on your players
which they don't really need."


England play Canada, themselves thrashed by seven wickets on
Wednesday, on Sunday but Fletcher was coy when asked about the
make-up of his side.


"We'll have a team meeting, reflect on the game and make some
decisions after that."


England play Kenya a week on Saturday.

