

Environment ministers from the world's eight major industrialised
countries and five key emerging economies pushed for fresh
impetus here Saturday to end the stalemate over global warming.


Ministers from 13 nations accounting for more than two-thirds of
the world's carbon pollution were sounding out potential areas of
mutual interest, with the European Union (EU), the United States
and the big developing countries at each corner of a virtual
triangular table.


Progress in tone, but not formal or even detailed agreement, was
the goal of the Potsdam talks.


The hope is that any step forward would be backed and boosted by
a G8 summit in June at the German Baltic resort of Heiligendamm.


Negotiations take place in December on the future of the UN's
Kyoto Protocol on curbing greenhouse gases -- and what happens at
Heiligendamm could invigorate or damn these talks, experts
believe.


Participants in Potsdam, a historic town on the edge of Berlin,
come from Group of Eight industrialised countries (Britain,
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United
States) and from Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South Africa.


On Friday, the ministers agreed to commission a major study into
the economic value of biodiversity to spur preservation of
Earth's fast-dwindling range of species.


They also debated the link between logging and climate change.
Deforestation accounts for around a fifth of global greenhouse-
gas emissions.


"That discussion genuinely broke new ground," British Environment
Minister David Miliband told reporters as he arrived for
Saturday's final session.


"The focus on deforestation and the focus on [climate-change]
adaptation and the issue of [pollution] mitigation is really
important. That has raised it up the agenda in a way it
deserves."


The climate negotiations will take place on the Indonesian island
of Bali from December 3-14 under the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC).


They will look at the follow-on to the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty
that runs out in 2012.


In its present form, the pact will not even dent the problem of
greenhouse gases, which trap solar heat and thus drive up Earth's
global temperature, inflicting changes to the climate that
scientists say are bound to accelerate in coming decades.


Building a successor to Kyoto will be a hugely complex task.


One challenge is to get a deal with the United States that will
accelerate and deepen pollution cuts by developed countries,
which are most to blame for today's problems.


Under President George W. Bush, the US abandoned Kyoto, rejecting
especially its capping system by which rich countries -- but not
developing countries -- agree to pollution limits and face
penalties if they overstep them.


The cap, say Kyoto's defenders, is essential for trading
mechanisms that provide incentives to reduce emissions. Bereft of
the United States, the present Kyoto format has limped along.


At a summit last week, the 27-nation European Union pledged to
cut its own greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and
deepen it to 30 percent if "international partners" follow suit.


The other challenge will be to encourage big developing countries
such as Brazil, China and India to strengthen their commitments.
These nations are wary of being lured into making pledges on
curbing their emissions, fearing that this could hamper their
rise out of poverty.


UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer on Friday said the task
was to find "creative ways" of engaging developing countries on
climate change.


"I don't think emissions reduction targets can reasonably be
asked for from developing countries," de Boer said at a press
conference, pointing to such incentives as the transfer of
cleaner technology so that poorer countries do not follow rich
nations down the path to high-carbon growth.

