

Seven people were killed Saturday and 50 injured when a passenger
jet crashed on landing in the central Russian city of Samara, the
latest blow to the country's aviation industry still reeling from
its deadliest year on record in 2006.


A twin-engine Tupolev Tu-134 jet operated by regional airline
YUT-Air crashed as it landed in heavy weather in Samara, 1,100
kilometres (685 miles) east of Moscow, breaking into pieces and
killing seven of the 57 passengers and crew aboard, officials
said.


Six people were trapped in the wreckage of the plane for about
three hours before being freed by rescue workers. A total of 23
people were hospitalised, while another 27 were treated by
psychologists at the Samara airport, emergency situation ministry
officials told agency ITAR-TASS.


Families of those killed in the Samara accident will receive
75,000 dollars (56,000 euros) each from YUT-Air as compensation,
Interfax quoted the ministry of transport as saying.


The crash followed 33 Russian aviation accidents last year that
left 318 dead -- a sixfold increase over 2005 -- according to a
report by the Interstate Aviation Committee, a joint group
involving former Soviet states.


"These events always reflect the shortcomings in the industry,"
Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov said while expressing his
condolences to victims' families, quoted by agency RIA Novosti
during a visit to Windhoek, Namibia.


The cause of the crash in Samara was unclear, though the
Prosecutor General said in a statement that the plane had hit the
ground 400 metres (yards) short of the landing strip, and
preliminarily blamed pilot error.


The committee report found the same culprit in over two-thirds of
Russia's air accidents over the past five years.


"Our investigations into accidents... point to major faults in
the professional training of crews as well as their inability to
appreciate the seriousness of situations and react in an
appropriate manner," the report, released last week, said.


Saturday's accident came three days after a Boeing 737 carrying
143 passengers made an emergency landing in Moscow after
experiencing problems in one of its two engines. No one was
injured in that incident.


The accident also brought renewed concern about Russia's aging
fleet of passenger jets. An air safety commission announced in
January that the average age of the country's international
airliners was 18, and its regional jets 30.


Aviation officials announced plans in February to replace
Russia's fleet of Tu-134 and Tu-154 planes with more modern jets,
but said the process would take five years.


"Russia has about 270 of these planes, but for now there is
nothing to replace them with," Minister of Transport Igor Levitin
said, RIA Novosti reported.

