

Israel on Saturday rejected contacts with the new Palestinian
unity government and urged the West to maintain its boycott
against a cabinet that has not recognised the Jewish state's
right to exist.


"Israel will not recognise or work with this new government or
with its members," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


She spoke shortly after prime minister designate Ismail Haniya
unveiled before parliament the programme of the new coalition
cabinet that unites his Islamist Hamas movement with the secular
Fatah of president Mahmud Abbas.


"The new government continues along the clear line of the
preceding one. Unfortunately, there is no recognition of Israel,
there is no recognition of past accords with the Palestinian
Authority," Eisin said.


"And not only is there no renunciation of terrorism, there is a
clear call by the new prime minister to what he calls the right
of resistance.


"We expect the international community to firmly stick to its
demands concerning the three conditions" for lifting the aid
freeze imposed on the Palestinian government a year ago when
Hamas came to power, she said.


The so-called Quartet of major players in the Middle East peace
process -- the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the
United States -- had demanded that a new Palestinian government
renounce violence and recognise Israel and past peace deals for
the aid flow to resume.


But Israeli officials have voiced fears that, out of concern for
the unprecedented havoc wreaked on the Palestinian economy, some
Quartet members will now end the aid freeze.


"We feel that the wind is beginning to change among certain
European countries who seem ready to restart their aid, which
would constitute a victory for Hamas," a senior foreign ministry
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Under the political programme unveiled by Haniya on Saturday, the
new government will "respect" past accords but the Hamas leader
also affirmed that the Palestinians had "a legitimate right" to
"resistance in all its forms."


Following the unveiling of the Palestinian unity cabinet earlier
this week, the EU and the US took a wait-and-see approach, saying
they had to study its platform before taking any decisions on
aid.


But Israeli officials argued that the freeze had to be
maintained.


"The question is to know whether we give money to terrorism or to
peace," Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres told public radio.


"If we have to deal with a government that does not exclude
resorting to terrorism and that is not capable of negotiating,
what good is it to give money to it?" he asked.


Deputy Defence Minister Ephraim Sneh said that "before we had a
government of Hamas, now we have a government that is half
Hamas," adding that a resumption of the aid to the Palestinians
"would not be a defeat for Israel, but to those who go back and
do not respect the principles that they themselves established."

