

Thailand's Chapchai Nirat continued his impressive form Saturday
in search of his maiden Asia Tour win with a four-under-par 68
for a five-stroke lead in the million-dollar TCL Classic.


The 23-year-old fired seven birdies against three bogeys for a 21
-under-par 195 after the third round at the Yalong Bay Golf Club
on the Chinese resort island on Hainan.


Chapchai was two strokes off the mark in matching the Asian
Tour's low 54-hole record of 23-under-par 193 held by David
Howell and Ernie Els.


But it was a continuation of an astonishing run of form by
Chapchai who equalled the two-day record in Asia after a 17
-under-par 127 total on Friday.


"I made a mistake on the last couple of holes. The wind was up
and my driving let me down," the Thai said.


"I was thinking that shooting a 69 today would be alright, so I'm
happy with a 68. I think if I can reach 25-under tomorrow, that
should be good enough to win," he added.


Chapchai, who is ranked 25th on the Asian Tour's Order of Merit,
is riding high with a five-stroke lead over Englishman Mills
Tunnicliff who leaped to second place after a 65 in the co-
sanctioned Asian Tour and European Tour event.


Japan's Taichi Teshima was also tied in second place after a
bogey-free 66 while Argentina's Rafael Echenique shot a 68 for
fourth spot six strokes adrift.


Taiwan's Lu Wen-teh was in lone fifth position for a 202 total
while China's Liang Wen-chong, last week's winner in Singapore,
shot his best round of 66 and was tied in sixth place alongside
Australians Adam Blyth and Brad Kennedy together with English duo
Oliver Fisher and James Heath on 203.


With an eagle at the 16th hole, Tunnicliff, a two-time winner on
the European Tour, will be banking on a breezy day on course
heading into the final round on Sunday.


"I played really solid again today. I haven't been playing great
but the last two days, I've found some form and started holing
some putts. I've given myself a chance," said Tunnicliff.


"I hope the wind stays up tomorrow, because I play pretty well in
the wind, and let's just see what happens," he added.


Teshima, who won on the Japan Golf Tour last year, was pleased
with his round after firing six birdies.


"I wasn't playing well coming into this week, but my short game
is working out pretty well, I've got up and down so many times,"
he said.


England's Nick Dougherty was tied in 11th spot after a 69
together with compatriot Lee Westwood who shot a 68 and
Thailand's Prayad Marksaeng who carded a lowly 65 for a 204
total.

