

The Spanish foreign ministry declared relations with Cuba "very
good" after the top diplomats of both countries met Saturday
about bilateral ties and the health of Fidel Castro.


Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos held talks in
Madrid with his Cuban counterpart Felipe Perez Roque who was
wrapping up a brief European tour which had also taken him to
Rome and Lisbon and to a Non-Aligned Movement meeting in Paris.


The ministry said the meeting included discussion of "the
situation on the island" and that Perez Roque had informed his
Spanish hosts of his European talks, without giving further
details.


Perez Roque's visit to former colonial master Spain came the day
before the fourth anniversary of the arrest by Cuban authorities
of some 70 intellectuals, writers, human rights activists and
journalists in a crackdown on dissidents.


Human rights organisations decried the arrests of the group,
tried as "foreign agents" and handed jail terms of up to 27 years
under laws protecting Cuban independence.


The press freedom group Reporters without Borders described the
crackdown as "an unprecedented wave of repression" towards
dissidents.


Amnesty International said in a report on Cuba four months after
the crackdown that those detained had been "subjected to hasty
and unfair trials" and "imprisoned solely for the peaceful
exercise of fundamental freedoms."


In Lisbon on Friday, Perez Roque had said the convalescing Castro
has gained weight and was exercising daily.


The 80-year-old Cuban leader "is recuperating progressively and
his recovery is constant," Perez Roque told reporters.


Castro, who has led Cuba since its 1959 revolution, temporarily
handed over power to his brother Raul, 75, on July 31 after
undergoing intestinal surgery.


But on Thursday the leader of Cuba's national assembly, Ricardo
Alarcon, suggested Castro could soon resume his presidential
duties when asked if the older Castro would seek re-election in
2008.


Since Castro stepped aside, he has appeared six times in film
footage to show he was recuperating, most recently on January 30.


cw/boc


Quotes amsud


"ambos ministros han abordado en su encuentro el buen nivel de
las relaciones ... y asimismo, han hablado sobre la situacion en
la isla."

