

Pakistani police Saturday removed barricades from around the home
of the nation's top judge after a week of furious protests over
his sacking by President Pervez Musharraf.


The move in the capital came as police fired tear gas to disperse
hundreds of lawyers trying to storm the High Court in the eastern
city of Lahore in protest at the judge's sacking, witnesses said.


"Over two dozen lawyers were injured in the shelling," their
representative Ahsan Bhoon said.


The protest capped a week of growing anger and demonstrations
across Islamabad at military ruler Musharraf, who ordered the
suspension of justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry over charges of
misconduct and abuse of authority.


The lifting of the police blockade around Chaudhry's home follows
an order by a judicial council inquiring into the allegations
against him that there should be no restrictions on his
movements.


Chaudhry, who denies the charges against him, has previously said
that he was being detained at his house.


His lawyer, Ali Ahmed Kurd, said the lifting of restrictions was
in line with the orders passed by the Supreme Judicial Council on
Friday.


In Lahore, lawyers threw stones and tried to break through the
gates of the Lahore High Court building which was surrounded by
security forces, local police officer Mohammad Azeem said.


Protester Bhoon said lawyers had called for a countrywide strike
on March 21, when Chaudhry would reappear before the judicial
council in Islamabad.


The uproar by lawyers and opposition political parties over the
suspension has brought the government under pressure,
particularly after ransacking of the office of local television
channel Geo by police in the capital on Friday.


Moving to contain the anger and political fallout, Musharraf
publicly apologised over the assault, and the government has
suspended 14 police officials involved in the raid.


Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz visited the Geo office in the capital
on Saturday, promising compensation for damages and to punish
those involved.


Aziz has also ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident, which
has been widely condemned at home and internationally.


In Islamabad, on Friday police fired rubber bullets and lobbed
teargas shells to stop the judge's supporters from reaching the
Supreme Court building, where he appeared before a panel of five
judges hearing his case.


According to police around 200 politicians, lawyers and activists
were detained mostly in Lahore and Islamabad before and during
protests but the leaders and lawyers among them were later
released.


Among those released were the leader of Pakistan's main alliance
of Islamic parties, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, who was detained in
Islamabad and several members of the parliament, police said.


The opposition says Musharraf is trying to intimidate the
judiciary before they hear key issues -- including his planned
re-election by parliament and his dual role as president and army
chief -- later this year.


Musharraf seized power in a bloodless army coup in 1999.

