

North Korea has begun preparations to shutdown and seal its key
Yongbyon atomic reactor, South Korea's top nuclear envoy said
Saturday.


Pyongyang was also willing to start moving towards disabling its
nuclear facilities but this would depend on how quickly it was
rewarded for such actions, Chun Yung-woo told reporters in
Beijing.


"North Korea said it has begun preparations to shut down the
Yongbyon nuclear facilities. It said it will disable the
facilities as soon as conditions are met," the envoy was quoted
as saying by South Korea's Yonhap news agency.


Under a February 13 accord, Pyongyang promised to begin shutting
down its nuclear programme within two months in exchange for
energy aid and diplomatic concessions.


Chun made the comments after working-level talks, between the six
nations involved in North Korea's nuclear disarmament, in Beijing
ahead of the next round of formal negotiations on Monday.


The six nations are the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and
Russia and host China.


Progress on the agreement has been hindered by Pyongyang's
demands that Washington release some 25 million dollars of North
Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank under US financial sanctions.


North Korea's chief nuclear negotiator earlier Saturday said the
country would not close its facilities until the United States
released all the funds.


"If the United States does not remove all of its restriction on
our funds at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), we cannot shut down our
nuclear facilities at Yongbyon," Kim Kye-gwan told reporters on
arrival in Beijing.


The US Treasury announced on Wednesday that it had cleared the
way for the release of the funds frozen in the Macau-based BDA.


In its ruling, the US Treasury barred US banks from dealing with
BDA, an institution it said had laundered money for reclusive
North Korea.


But the move now leaves it up to the Macau authorities to decide
what to do with the cash after the bank was left in receivership,
a US Treasury official said Saturday following talks with
authorities in the former Portuguese enclave.


"It will be for the Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the funds, whether to release it or not. We did conduct an
investigation and hope our investigation will be helpful to their
determination," Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel Glaser told
reporters in Hong Kong before heading to Beijing.


"I think they will act responsibly with that information as they
have acted responsibly all along," he added. "The authorities
don't need my suggestion."


Christopher Hill, chief US envoy on North Korea, had expressed
confidence  the BDA issue "will not pose an obstacle to the six-
party talks."


"I'm quite sure we will not be talking about the BDA issue any
more in a couple of days," Hill said Saturday.


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday had hailed US moves to
resolve the financial sanctions as a "landmark event," raising
hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


Kim, Hill and Chun are in Beijing for Monday's start of the next
round of six- party negotiations.


Hill, who had said he would meet Kim soon after the North
Korean's arrival, attended a working group meeting Saturday along
with other representatives of the nations involved in the talks.


UN atomic agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei had said on Friday that
he hoped an April 13 deadline could be met for starting to
dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons programme.


ElBaradei told reporters on returning to Vienna after visits to
Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the North Koreans "still
would like to see that deadline respected and we still hope to do
it by April 13."


"If the financial sanctions are over, then we expect the DPRK
(North Korea) to invite us to work out the modalities of
monitoring and verification" of North Korea's deal to close and
seal its Yongbyon plutonium-producing reactor by April 13, the
IAEA director general said.


That would be 60 days after the six-party agreement reached in
Beijing on February 13.

