

A total 24,000 passengers were prevented from travelling on
Eurostar trains to and from London and continental Europe on
Saturday following a track-side fire in the British capital.


A Eurostar spokeswoman told AFP that 12,000 travellers in each
direction had journeys cancelled on Saturday as a result of
Friday's fire that sparked a 24-hour suspension of the cross-
Channel train service.


About 10,500 passengers had been affected on Friday, she added.


"Services resume from 1700 GMT and certainly we will strive to
get passengers travelling as early as possible," the spokeswoman
said.


Eurostar, which runs high-speed passenger trains through the
Channel Tunnel on the line linking London with Paris and
Brussels, had imposed the suspension until later Saturday even
though the fire had been extinguished on Friday.


Among those affected are British tourists heading on skiing
holidays and supporters of the Scottish rugby team, whose side
faces France in the Six Nations tournament in Paris on Saturday.


The Eurostar spokeswoman said she could not say how many fans
have been affected. A spokesman for the Scottish Rugby Union had
Friday said that thousands of Scots were expected at the game.


Meanwhile it was not known how many fans were making the journey
on alternative transport, including ferries and planes.


In Paris hundreds of passengers arrived at the Gare du Nord to
receive updates on the situation, according to one worker of the
French national railway operator SNCF.


"In general, they are those who can't delay their trip," the
employee added.


Eurostar passengers affected have been offered alternative travel
dates or refunds.


About 500 passengers, blocked in Lille owing to the disruption,
managed to return to Britain overnight on Eurostar, but only as
far as Ashford in Kent, south of London, according to SNCF.


The closure of Eurostar was because of the risk of gas cylinders
exploding after the blaze. Some nearby homes and businesses in
the affected area were evacuated as a 200-metre (yard) exclusion
zone was set up while the gas cylinders cool.


The incident continued also to disrupt some domestic commuter
services using London's mainline Waterloo and Victoria
terminuses.


London Fire Brigade, which sent two fire engines and around 10
firefighters to Friday's incident, said the blaze involved an
unidentified cylinder near the small, inner-city Wandsworth Road
commuter station.


A Eurostar spokesman said the company was told all the railway
lines in the vicinity had to be closed for safety reasons.


Eurostar arranged for an overnight ski train to the Alps by
having passengers travel by bus from the Waterloo terminal to
Ashford.


Eurostar was launched in November 1994 after the completion of
the Channel Tunnel between England and France. Its London
terminal is due to change from Waterloo to Saint Pancras station
later this year.

