

Mona Sahlin, who on Saturday became leader of Sweden's Social
Democrats, has had a long political career in which she has swung
between party darling and outcast.


The 50-year-old former cabinet minister became the first woman to
head Sweden's biggest political party, which has been in
opposition since a stinging legislative election defeat in
September.


Sahlin, tall and slender with short dark hair and a ready smile,
has spent more than half of her life in politics.


Born March 9, 1957, she grew up in a Social Democratic family.
Her father was an advisor to the party in the 1970s and 1980s.


In the early 1970s as a young teen she joined the party's youth
wing, and in 1982, at age 25, she became the youngest member of
Sweden's parliament.


In 1990, at 33, she was appointed to her first cabinet post, as
labour minister, and has also been minister of gender equality,
integration, sustainable development and deputy prime minister.


She also served as the Social Democrats' first woman party
secretary, from 1992 to 1994.


Her career, described by Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter as a
"rollercoaster," has been marked by both glorious periods where
she has been the darling of the party and the media, and stormy
episodes.


Her first trial came as freshly appointed labour minister, when
she drew the ire of union bosses by defending a salary freeze
proposed by Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson as a means to get the
beleaguered Swedish economy back on track.


The most famous controversy involving Sahlin, dubbed the
"Toblerone affair," took place in 1995, when she was one of
several candidates for the party leadership.


Media revealed that she had charged private purchases to her
government credit card, including a Toblerone chocolate bar.
Further investigations showed her personal finances were in
disarray with numerous late payments.


A media frenzy ensued and she was forced to withdraw her
candidacy and take a three-year time-out from politics, before
returning to join Goeran Persson's government in 1998 as minister
of industry and employment.


Her election Saturday was therefore seen as sweet revenge,
particularly given the fact that she could become Sweden's first
woman prime minister if she succeeds in leading the party to
election victory in 2010.


But Sahlin is a controversial figure and she was not the first
choice for many Social Democrats, winning the nomination by
default after several other heavyweights bowed out of the race,
including Sweden's EU Commissioner Margot Wallstroem.


She has already declared three priorities for her leadership:
global warming, labour market issues, and the fight against
social injustice.


But she has yet to reveal whether she plans to steer the party
toward the traditionalist left or push ahead with her
predecessor's shift toward the right.


According to Dagens Nyheter editorialist Henrik Brors, one of
Sahlin's strongest assets is her communication skills.


"She is a very good communicator," he told AFP, noting that she
has an ability to jump out of the television screen and get her
message across to voters.


However, he added, "she lacks a clear political vision," and
could have trouble winning the support of Sweden's powerful trade
unions, traditionally close to the Social Democrats.


Sahlin is married and has three children. A fourth child died at
the age of 11 months.

