

New Zealand coach John Bracewell said "intelligence" was the key
to his side's win against England in their opening World Cup
match.


The Black Caps put themselves in a strong position in Group C
with a six-wicket victory after holding England to a total of 209
for seven.


That featured a middle-order collapse where three wickets were
lost for one run in seven balls.


Fast bowler Shane Bond, who struck twice in four balls to get rid
of dangermen Kevin Pietersen and Andrew Flintoff, led the way in
the field with two for 19 from 10 overs.


Although New Zealand in reply slumped to 19 for three, an
unbroken stand of 138 between all-rounders Scott Styris (87 not
out) and Jacob Oram (63 not out) saw them home with nine overs to
spare.


Bracewell, asked at the team hotel here Saturday what pleased him
most about the victory, replied: "The intelligence with which we
bowled. We won the game with our bowling. Also, the control of
our nerves by our experienced middle-order.


"It was the bowling that won the game, it was as simple as that.
We only had to bat the overs to win it and the wicket was always
getting better."


The former New Zealand off-spinner also paid tribute to Styris,
whose innings was his best since he returned to the side
following a back injury in January.


"He showed he's a big-match player and that's why we keep picking
him because he turns it up when it counts," Bracewell said. "He
has that mongrel, that can dig deep and that was a game that
needed it."


Although each team at the World Cup is allowed a 15-man squad,
New Zealand are effectively a man down at the moment as pace
bowler Mark Gillespie battles a viral infection which has numbed
the nerves of his right, bowling, shoulder.


However, Bracewell said Gillespie was getting back to fitness.


"The delight is he's bowling and he's really pleased with that,"
Bracewell said of the 27-year-old Wellington quick.


"It's made a mental shift as well. The only thing he'd really
struggling with at the moment is throwing and getting his arm
into that position.


"The progress is good and while we are keeping our guys healthy
we can continue to select from 14."


And he insisted that he had not yet given any thought to calling
up a replacement, a move that would end Gillespie's participation
in the World Cup.


"No, that's how important Mark is to us, how much we value him.
We are not prepared to make that decision until we definitely
have to."


New Zealand play Kenya on Tuesday before rounding off their group
campaign against Canada on Thursday.

