

Hundreds of thousands of revellers throughout Ireland and across
the world celebrated St Patrick's Day Saturday with colourful
parades and other festivities.


The feast day of Ireland's patron saint, when much Guinness and
other alcohol is traditionally drunk, showcases the country to
give an early kick-start to the country's tourism season.


The festival generates an estimated 60 million euros (79 million
dollars) in tourism revenue, culminating in the capital with a
televised parade watched by an estimated worldwide audience of
six million.


It is now Dublin's biggest annual event but many other countries
hold their own parties, especially those where the Irish have
settled.


St Patrick's Day is one of the most recognised national holidays
on the global calendar and is an excuse to party from Pretoria to
Paris, Warsaw and Washington.


Even reclusive North Korea sent greetings to Irish President Mary
McAleese.


Mingling with the crowds on Dublin's streets was Prime Minister
Bertie Ahern, just back from Washington where he had presented US
President George W. Bush with the traditional bowl of shamrock in
the White House.


"It is great to see all our new Irish all dressed up in green.
They all come out and enjoy our St Patrick's Day and that's
nice," Ahern said, referring to the many immigrants attracted by
Ireland's economic boom.


Thousands of Irish rugby fans, known as the 'Blarney Army' were
meanwhile in Rome for the crunch Six Nations rugby match against
Italy, giving vent in the Flaminio stadium to such traditional
songs as 'Molly Malone' and 'Fields of Athenry.'


In Sydney, where a large proportion of the population claims
Irish ancestry and which has a sizeable expatriate community,
revellers were out in force even though official St Patrick's Day
celebrations were held last week.


In Belgium, a Northern Ireland brass band was to lead the first
ever St Patrick's Day parade through the Menin Gate at Ypres to
remember Irish soldiers from both sides of the border, who died
during World War I.


In China, Shanghai is holding its first official St Patrick's Day
party.


After centuries of emigration, an estimated 70 million people
worldwide claim an Irish connection.


President McAleese, who reviewed the Dublin parade as it passed
down O'Connell Street, the capital's main thoroughfare, said in
her St Patrick's Day greeting that immigrants from "many far-off
shores" are adding greatly to Ireland's "legendary cultural
buoyancy."


In Ireland, the County Cork village of Dripsey in the south of
the country is claiming its 25 metre route between two pubs is
the shortest St Patrick's Day parade in the world.


The theme of the Dublin parade this year is "Legendary" and up to
500,000 lined the route as it snaked through the centre of the
city.


In Sydney, city authorities moved forward the annual parade,
which attracts 60,000 people, so it did not clash with the city's
celebration Sunday of the Sydney Harbour Bridge's 75th
anniversary.


"I've had my Irish breakfast -- some white pudding, black pudding
and the full Ulster fry, all accompanied by a nice glass of
Guinness," recently-arrived British immigrant Ruth O'Neill said.


Meanwhile the Tokyo Tower, the tallest structure in Japan and a
major tourist attraction, turned green late Saturday.


Dublin's parade came with a multi-cultural theme involving
substantial contributions from the new Irish immigrant
communities.


The City Fusion pageant, 'Citychange', include immigrant groups
from France, Poland, Lithuania, Indonesia, India, Nigeria,
Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
and Angola.


The 4,000 people involved in the parade included visiting
performing groups from Europe, India, Africa and the United
States.


Almost 11 percent of Ireland's workforce are immigrants attracted
to the country's prosperity -- a result of the so-called Celtic
Tiger economic boom in recent years.


Amid the dancing and drinking, Roman Catholic Primate Archbishop
Sean Brady meanwhile reminded people to acknoweledge the
importance of St Patrick.


The patron saint, whose feast day has been in the Christian
calendar since the ninth century, is credited with converting the
country to Christianity and to have baptised thousands, ordained
priests and set up churches and monasteries.

