

The first of 1,300 Afghan artefacts, including a glass phallus
from the time of Alexander the Great, were put on display in
Kabul Saturday in the biggest return of such items in nearly 70
years.


The artefacts were unpacked from a shipping container outside the
National Museum of Afghanistan at an event attended by government
ministers, diplomats and other officials.


They arrived on Friday from Switzerland, where they were
collected in the Afghan Museum in Exile in Bubendorf, near the
Swiss city of Basel, from 1999.


After 25 years of war in which much of Afghanistan's ancient
cultural heritage was looted or destroyed, the country was
considered stable enough to have the items back, officials said.


With their repatriation, "a very big part of Afghanistan's lost
treasures comes back to Afghanistan," Minister of Information and
Culture Abdul Karim Khurram told reporters.


"From the symbolic point of view it shows the time is gone when
it was possible to loot, to steal -- the instability is finished
in Afghanistan and now Afghanistan's treasures can come back," he
said.


They included items such as 100-year-old slippers, traditional
caps and a yak- hair flywhisk, besides treasures dating back more
than 2,300 years to the time of Alexander the Great.


The collection started with a worldwide appeal when the country's
treasures were destroyed and looted during its decades of war,
said Paul Bucherer-Dietschi, head of a Swiss foundation that
headed the museum.


Many of the items were donated by Europeans who had collected
them as souvenirs during their years working in Afghanistan.


Some were anonymously donated, perhaps after being looted, and
others were given by the late Ahmad Shah Massoud, prominent
commander of the resistance to the 1979-1989 Soviet occupation,
Bucherer-Dietschi said.


The return of the Afghan cultural artefacts was the largest
repatriation of items since thousands of items from Madrid's
Prado museum were returned from Geneva in 1939, he said.

