

Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer believes non-Test playing nations
should be at the World Cup despite a series of humiliating
results here.


Three of the four heaviest defeats in the history of the World
Cup came in the first three days of the 2007 tournament.


Sri Lanka beat Bermuda by 243 runs, South Africa romped to a
221-run win against the Netherlands, in a match reduced to 40
overs each because of rain, while Scotland lost by 202 runs to
Australia.


But Woolmer, whose Pakistan side were facing Ireland on Saturday,
insists that the Associate member sides, comprised of mostly
amateur players, will only improve by being exposed to top level
competition.


"My view is that the World Cup is a wonderful incentive for these
countries to improve their cricket internally and help grow the
game worldwide," Woolmer wrote in his www.cricinfo.com column.


"Ultimately, it's only when the players in those countries are
playing regular top-class cricket and are paid professionally
that they will start to make inroads into the Full Member
nations.


"In addition, players who were born in the high-performance
countries but moved overseas with their parents when they were
young are now returning to the land of their birth to help with
their experience and to try and gain a place in the team with the
World Cup as their incentive.


"In fact the ICC has increased the funding 10-fold in order to
narrow the gap between the full member countries and the
Associates.


"The associate countries have been prepared better for this World
Cup than ever before and it has started to show in their
performances.


"Ireland, in particular, have shown a rapid improvement,
captained by an Australian, Trent Johnston, a medium-fast seamer
and, with a number of players who have county experience in
England, they have a very good team. Any side underestimating
them will be doing themselves few favours."


Woolmer said he was impressed by what he saw of the Irish in
their warm-up game against world number one South Africa.


Ireland reduced South Africa to 98 for 8 before Graeme Smith's
side escaped with a narrow win.


"That means that their bowling is very disciplined. The Irish
have six out of seven lefthanders in the upper order and they are
young and fit on the field. They are, in other words, a serious
banana skin fixture."

