

Polish President Lech Kaczynski held out an olive branch to
German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Saturday saying Warsaw will
not block efforts to revive the European Union's constitution.


Kaczynski said after talks with Merkel he had "taken a step
towards Germany", with whom relations have been strained, by
agreeing to relaunch talks on the stalled constitution on the
basis of the existing text.


"We agree that the existing text of the constitutional treaty can
serve as a basis for the discussions. The mandate (for these
discussions) will be put in place during the EU summit in June,"
Kaczynski said.


"Up to now we have said that we should write the text from
scratch," he said.


"Quite obviously we are absolutely not saying that the (current)
and future constitutional treaty texts will be identical," he
said.


On Friday, after her arrival Merkel had warned Poland not to
block the European constitution.


"The time for reflection is past. It's time for decisions," she
said. "Let me say this uncategorically: failure to do this would
be a historic missed opportunity."


The constitution project has been ratified by 18 member states
but remains in limbo after it was rejected in referendums in
France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Led by Poland's euro-sceptic identical twins, Kaczynski and his
brother Jaroslaw, the prime minister, Warsaw last month urged the
EU to ditch attempts to revive the constitution.


Poland is particularly opposed to the voting system foreseen in
the constitution.


Kaczynski also told Merkel that Warsaw would sign up to a
declaration at an EU summit next week to mark the 50th
anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which founded the then
European Community.


"Poland has certain reservations about the wording of the
declaration of Berlin but in refusing to sign it we would have
been the only country not to do so," Kaczynski said.


Polish leaders have wanted references to Christianity to be
included in the statement set to be issued to mark the EU
anniversary.


Merkel left the Polish president's residence on the Hel peninsula
at about noon after two days of meetings.


Relations between Germany and Poland have been tested recently.


One touchy issue involves Germans who were expelled from Polish
territory as World War II drew to a close.


They were among some 14 million German civilians who were
displaced, deported or expelled from their homes in eastern
Europe from 1944 onwards as the Soviet Red Army advanced and
Germany's Third Reich crumbled.


Merkel has in the past spoken out in favour of a proposed centre
for Germany's war displaced -- a project that the Kaczynski twins
bitterly oppose, saying it is an attempt to portray Germans as
war victims and rewrite history.

