

West Indies legend Sir Viv Richards hailed Herschelle Gibbs on
Saturday after the South African created history by becoming the
first player to hit six sixes in an international over.


Gibbs achieved the landmark in the 30th over of his side's
221-run demolition of the Netherlands at Warner Park before going
on to make a 40-ball 72.


"Herschelle Gibbs was one of the players who I thought could
achieve the feat and I'm delighted he's done it," said Richards
who also noted that Gibbs's heroics also prompted a leading
drinks company to pay out a million dollars to charity.


"A million dollars is a lot of money and this sum will go to a
great charity."


Gibbs said he didn't know of the campaign of the Johnnie Walker
group to stump up the money.


"I was not aware of the charity announcement. I have seen Brian
Lara hitting some sixes in a Test so I thought, may be, something
similar and it happened."


Gibbs's record feat, along with Jacques Kallis's unbeaten 128 and
another rapid 31-ball 75 not out by Mark Boucher, which included
the fastest ever World Cup half century, helped South Africa pile
up 353-3 in a shortened 40-over-a-side match.


South Africa then restricted the Netherlands to 132-9 in their 40
overs to win by a comprehensive 221-run margin, the third largest
winning margin in World Cup history.


"After the fourth six, I thought it could be on," added Gibbs.


"I thought about using my feet and coming down the pitch, but
then I changed my mind and decided to stay in the crease.


"The idea was for me to have another two goes at the record and
luckily I didn't miscue any of them, so it was quite nice."


The last two deliveries from the hapless leg-break bowler Daan
van Bunge were heaved to long-off to complete the unique feat.


"If the ball presents itself, I'll try everything," said Gibbs.


"I was lucky the straight boundaries were quite small but the six
sixes was a bonus, it was just nice to get a hit in the middle."


The 33-year-old Gibbs followed West Indian great Sir Gary Sobers
and India's Ravi Shastri who both hit six sixes in an over but
they came in first class cricket.


Sobers was the first to reach the landmark playing for
Nottinghamshire against Glamorgan at Swansea in 1968 with Malcolm
Nash the bowler taking the punishment.


Former India all-rounder Ravi Shastri then equalled the feat
playing for Bombay against Baroda in 1984.


South Africa skipper Graeme Smith, who hit a 59-ball 67, said he
was happy at his team's work out.


"I am happy that most of the guys had a hit out and now we look
forward to the game against Scotland and then the big one against
Australia," said Smith ahead of the remaining Group A matches.


They meet Scotland on March 20 before their crunch match against
Australia four days later. The top two teams qualify for the
second round of Super Eights.

