

The Central Cheetahs overcame a run of poor home form in the
Super 14 by scoring five tries to run out convincing 38-20
winners over the ACT Brumbies here Saturday.


It was the Cheetahs' first victory on home soil in four outings
in this year's competition. The home side led 14-0 at the turn-
around.


Rassie Erasmus' men now have a weekend off before embarking on
the overseas leg of the southern hemisphere inter-provincial
competition.


The Cheetahs were coming off defeats to the Crusaders and Sharks
and a draw with the Chiefs.


It was a rather poor first half an hour with neither side really
coming close to scoring a try.


The Cheetahs, however, created the better chances, mainly because
they dominated up front. But it all came together later on and
the home fans were treated to some thrilling rugby by Juan
Smith's men.


Poor decision-making and at times shoddy handling though cost the
home side on the few occasions they did breach the Brumbies line.


But it was the home side who enjoyed superiority in the first
period. Corniel van Zyl and Rory Duncan were massive in the
lineouts, stealing a number of balls for the Cheetahs.


They were also far more disciplined than the men from Canberra,
who didn't even have a chance to have a shot at goal in the first
40 minutes.


Cheetahs flyhalf Willem De Waal, who converted all five Cheetahs
tries, may have missed two shots at goal, but the home team never
got despondent and continued hammering away at the Brumbies.


With them winning plenty of good ball up front, the backs started
running hard at their opponents, often finding gaps in midfield
and out wide.


The Cheetahs were finally rewarded for their dominance in the
36th minute after the pack had mauled the ball about 40 metres
towards the Brumbies line.


When they were eventually stopped, Noel Oelschig took a quick-tap
penalty from five metres out and dashed to the line, stretching
his arm over for the try with George Smith wrapped around his
body. De Waal found his kicking boots and added the two points.


Minutes later the visitors lost inspirational midfielder Stirling
Mortlock to a hand injury and his departure was met with
increased confidence from the Cheetahs who scored their second
try three minutes from the interval.


It was a sweeping move from inside their own half after Duncan
had stolen yet another ball in the lineout, and when it was sent
down the backline, centre Ronnie Cooke sliced through the
smallest of gaps, off-loaded to Bevin Fortuin who in turn sent
Gavin Passens speeding down the left touchline to score in the
corner. De Waal had no difficulty with the conversion and the
Cheetahs went into the break 14-0 up.


The Brumbies finally scored in the 50th minute with a Julian
Huxley penalty, but a mere two minutes later the hosts grabbed
their third try when the ball was again sent down the backline,
with Cooke again doing the hard yards in midfield to send hooker
Richardt Strauss in for the score. De Waal again made no mistake.


Eight minutes later, it was the turn of winger Philip Burger to
go in for his teams bonus point try; Cooke and Fortuin again
prominent in the move.


The visitors though showed their fighting spirit with tries to
Adam Ashley- Cooper and Mark Chisholm either side of a De Waal
drop-goal, but it was the Cheetahs who finished stronger and
captain Juan Smith scored his team's fifth try in the 72nd minute
after the intervention of the television match official.


Brumbies replacement Patrick Phibbs scored a consolation third
try for his team after the hooter had sounded.

