

South Korea on Saturday said it was "very regrettable" Tokyo
disputed that Japan forced Asian women into sex slavery during
World War II and called it an attempt to distort history.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government said Friday it
did not believe there was proof Japan forced women into army
brothels, reiterating remarks that caused an uproar earlier this
month.


"The government did not find evidence showing forced recruitment
by Japanese military authorities or bureaucrats," Abe's cabinet
said in a policy statement in parliament responding to a question
by an opposition lawmaker.


It said, however, that Abe's cabinet would not change a landmark
1993 apology that the Japanese government issued to former sex
slaves.


The 1993 statement, issued by the top government spokesman at the
time, apologised to the so-called "comfort women" and said the
imperial army was involved "directly or indirectly" in their
recruitment and in the management of the brothels.


"The Japanese government, while reaffirming its position that it
inherits the 1993 statement ..., shows an attitude not to admit
to its direct involvement," the South Korean foreign ministry
said in a statement.


"This is an attempt to gloss over past wrongdoings and distort
truth in history. We find it very regrettable," it said.


Saturday's statement was more strongly worded than one the
ministry issued on Tuesday which simply urged Japan to take a
"cautious approach" towards the wartime sex slavery.


Abe, known for his conservative views on history, caused outrage
earlier this month when he said there was no evidence that
"comfort women" were forced into sexual slavery "in the strict
sense of coercion."


He later elaborated, saying he was talking about physical
coercion, such as kidnappings of women by Japanese soldiers to
put them into brothels.


Abe's remarks have provoked a furore in Asian countries that were
invaded by Japan and in the United States, where the US Congress
is considering a bill that would demand Japan make an outright
apology to comfort women.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


Japan has been fighting against the US bill, which is seen as
more likely to pass since the Democrats took power from President
George W. Bush's Republicans in January.

