

Bangladesh real estate companies warned Saturday they face
financial ruin following a government corruption crackdown on new
apartment owners.


A military-backed government came to power vowing to wage an all-
out fight against widespread graft and clean up the country's
murky political scene before staging parliamentary elections.


As a result, authorities in late January started targeting
property owners, demanding transaction records from real estate
agencies in an attempt to determine if their finances were from
legitimate sources.


"Security forces came to our offices and building sites. They
demanded names of owners of all the flats we sold in the last
five years," said Abdul Awal, president of Real Estate and
Housing Association of Bangladesh (REHAB).


"It has created panic among clients. No client wants to buy flats
for fear of being asked about the source of his money," he said.


"It's a disaster for us," he said.


Dwellings are traditionally partly paid for in Bangladesh with
"black" undeclared money which means the registered prices of the
properties are lower than the actual market value.


Sometimes the black component of a transaction can go up to 90
percent.


The association said initially the crackdown had hit luxury flat
sales because the country's rich people were afraid to make any
financial deals.


But now even ordinary buyers are panicking because they think
buying a flat will land them in trouble, said Toufiq M. Seraj,
chief executive officer of leading real estate company Sheltech.


Consequently, REHAB said the construction sector, employing more
than one million people, was facing a sharp slowdown, affecting
allied industries such as cement, rod, ceramic and construction
materials.


The construction industry accounts for nine per cent of gross
domestic product and has been growing by over eight per cent
annually since 1999.


The housing association said it had been asked to submit tax
numbers of clients and prices for which properties were sold.


"It's OK if they want information on a particular client. But
when they began to inquire about everything, it obviously creates
panic. And people react swiftly to any panic," Sheltech's Seraj
added.


A senior security officer, speaking on condition of anonymity,
told AFP the government aimed to root out tax-evaders and corrupt
owners.


The government's anti-corruption commission last month released a
list of 50 allegedly corrupt politicians, bureaucrats,
businessmen and accused them of amassing millions of taka
(Bangladesh's currency) in unaccounted money.


At least 45 prominent figures have been arrested or detained


The crackdown comes after President Iajuddin Ahmed cancelled the
elections in January, stepped down as head of the caretaker
government and imposed emergency rule.


The new military-backed interim government has since said it
would stage polls when a string of reforms aimed at strengthening
democracy have been implemented, including the corruption
crackdown.


"Last week, we arrested a government official and he confessed
that he owns ten flats in a posh Bashunddhara housing complex,"
said Sultan Nurani, a commanding officer of elite security force
Rapid Action Battalion.


"We have found out a major portion of their money is spent in
buying flats. Some have even bought apartments in Dubai," he
said.

