

Finnish politicians cranked up campaigning on the eve of Sunday's
general election, as polls indicated Prime Minister Matti
Vanhanen would likely be re- elected after a tight race.


Vanhanen's Centre Party, which governs in a centre-left coalition
with the Social Democrats and the tiny Swedish People's Party, is
widely expected to remain the biggest party in the country thanks
largely to Vanhanen's strong economic record.


But the real fight is for second place, observers say, with the
Social Democrats and the opposition Conservative National
Coalition Party neck-and-neck in the final opinion polls.


The second-place winner could determine whether Vanhanen chooses
to continue his centre-left coalition, or shift to a centre-right
alliance, following an election campaign that has focused on
health care, care for the elderly and job creation.


Finland's Swedish-language daily Hufvudstadsbladet headlined on
Saturday: "Close Race Seen for Silver Medal."


A final opinion poll published on Friday by the Taloustutkimus
institute and which questioned just under 2,000 people showed the
Centre Party garnering 24.7 percent of votes, the Social
Democrats 21.3 percent and the Conservatives 20.4 percent.


None of the three biggest parties has indicated which parties it
would seek to collaborate with if it wins Sunday's election.


In the final days of campaigning, the Social Democrats appeared
to be losing some ground to the Conservatives.


As cold and wet weather swept across Finland on Saturday, party
leaders took to the shopping malls to secure last minute votes.


Social Democratic supporters were out en masse, handing out
100,000 roses, the party's symbol, in a bid to mobilise their
voters so as to hang onto their place in government.


Only 70 percent of Social Democratic voters have said they plan
to cast their ballots, a low figure in Finland which is expected
to help the Conservatives, whose voters are expected to be more
active.


Meanwhile, Conservative leader Jyrki Katainen was campaigning in
Kuopio, his hometown in central Finland, before returning to the
capital on Saturday, where Vanhanen was also meeting voters
running their weekend errands in shopping malls.

