

Manchester City threw manager Stuart Pearce a managerial lifeline
here on Saturday by ending a run of five straight defeats with an
unexpected 2-0 win over Middlesbrough.


Pearce's recent signing Emile Mpenza made sure of the points with
his first goal in English football after skipper Sylvain Distin
had fired City ahead just after the hour mark.


The three points enabled City to climb above both Sheffield
United and Wigan and gives them a nine-point cushion from the
relegation zone.


Belgian striker Mpenza teed up Distin for City's opener with a
header across the goalmouth after Boro had failed to clear a Joey
Barton corner.


The City captain had time to control the ball before powering a
shot high past Mark Schwarzer.


Then, with 17 minutes left, Mpenza made the outcome safe, running
on to Barton's deft pass before sliding the ball past the
outrushing Schwarzer and into the net off the inside of the post.


But City extended their lead 17 minutes from time when Barton
picked off Luke Cattermole's loose pass and slid the ball into
the path of Mpenza, who poked a shot past the advancing Schwarzer
and in off the post.


City could have given Pearce a much less stressful afternoon if
they had made more of two gilt-edged chances before the interval.


The first of them came just five minutes in, when Barton fired
narrowly wide after being teed up by teenage midfielder Michael
Johnson.


Mpenza spurned an even better chance as the half-hour approached,
but directed a free header well wide of the target after being
picked out by Michael Ball.


Mpenza did better ten minutes from the break, firing a low shot
from the left- hand side of the area that Schwarzer did well to
save.


By that stage both sides had been forced into tactical reshuffles
as a result of injuries. Boro's Austrian defender Emanuel
Pogatetz was stretchered off after only nine minutes and City's
England defender Micah Richards joined him on the sidelines
quarter of an hour later.


Schwarzer produced another good stop to deny Barton early in the
second period before City finally found a way past the Australian
goalkeeper.

