

Environment ministers from the world's eight major industrialised
countries and five key emerging economies agreed here Saturday
that climate change required urgent, united action, delegates
said.


But the United States blocked a consensus for supporting the
carbon market, the centrepiece of the UN Kyoto Protocol's
approach for tackling the greenhouse gases that cause the climate
problem, they said.


The two-day meeting took place in Potsdam, at the historic
chateau on the outskirts of Berlin where the victorious World War
II allies redrew the map of Europe.


It gathered ministers from the Group of Eight industrialised
countries (Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia
and the United States) and Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South
Africa.


German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel described the meeting
as "a big success" in providing momentum to addressing global
warming, an issue that scientists describe as a great peril yet
is deadlocked politically.


"The discussion was very frank, very open and very free. It was a
very positive atmosphere as well," Gabriel, whose country is
current president of the G8, told reporters.


Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change (UNFCCC), said: "This meeting exceeded my
expectations. It was a very open, very constructive meeting."


"There's consensus on the need for urgency, on the need to move
forward," de Boer said.


The ministers endorsed scientific evidence about the urgency
about global warming and climate change, that the solutions for
tackling it needed contributions from everyone, although
industrialised countries had to do more, said Gabriel.


They also agreed that measures on climate change should not
penalise developing countries' drive for prosperity and that poor
countries needed more help to adapt to climate shift.


But the US representative, Environment Protection Agency (EPA)
Administrator Stephen Johnson, objected to an endorsement of the
carbon market as a means for tackling emissions, Gabriel said.


The United States also objected to offering financial incentives
for developing countries that voluntarily protect natural assets,
such as tropical rainforests, the German minister said.


"We thought that was regrettable," said Gabriel, adding though
that it was not a surprise. "(...) You can only be disappointed
if you expected otherwise."


A summary of what was decided at the Potsdam talks will be
submitted to the June 6-8 G8 summit at the German Baltic resort
of Heiligendamm.


Negotiations on the future of the Kyoto Protocol after it runs
out in 2012 will take place on the Indonesian island of Bali from
December 3-14.


In its present form, Kyoto will not even dent the problem of
greenhouse gases, which trap solar heat and thus drive up Earth's
global temperature, inflicting changes to the climate that
scientists say are bound to accelerate in coming decades.

