

Almost half of Indian children surveyed for a landmark national
study were physically, sexually or economically  abused,
according to leaked results.


One quarter of almost 17,000 children and young adults surveyed
had been sexually abused, many by relatives, while 40 percent had
been beaten, many by persons in authority, the results showed.


The survey is part of the first comprehensive study of child
abuse in India, a child welfare official said on Saturday, but
would not comment on the findings, which are not yet public.


However, national news magazine Outlook, which has obtained a
copy of the study, reported that "close to 50 percent of the
respondents spoken to have suffered some form of abuse."


"Twenty-five percent of the children have suffered sexual abuse.
In more than 30 percent of the cases, relatives of the child are
involved," the magazine said. The same findings were reported in
the Hindustan Times daily.


Forty percent of the children in the study, which the government
plans to release at the end of March, had been beaten, the media
reports said.


The beating figures were even more grim among children in the
capital New Delhi.


"Nearly 71 percent have been physically beaten by persons in
position of authority," the Outlook report said.


"In more than 56 percent of the cases (in New Delhi), the beating
resulted in bleeding," it said.


The study also said 60 percent of those children surveyed had
suffered economic abuse which included forced labour.


The study was conducted in 13 states by Indian nongovernmental
group Prayas and backed by the UN's child welfare agency UNICEF
and Save the Children Fund.


Children, chosen at random, were questioned on the street, at
jobs, in schools, in institutions and in their own homes.


The study would shed much-needed light on the nature and extent
of child abuse in India which was under-reported to government
authorities, the project's leader told AFP.


"The numbers indicated in the National Crime Records Bureau,
these numbers are actually no indication of the actual figures,"
said Amod K. Kanth, a senior police officer and co-founder of the
child welfare group Prayas.


"Sex abuse is much more prevalent in India than what is thought,"
Kanth said, citing his experience from 20 years of working with
children.


"Almost all the children who happen to be destitutes are abused."


Kanth said sex abuse also occurs in affluent homes where --
because of greater privacy -- it is less likely to come to light.


As many as 35 million children are in need of protection from the
government Kanth said, adding that the government spends less
than one percent of its budget on child protection services.


Loveleen Kacker, an official at the Department of Women and Child
Development, hailed the study.


"It's the first study at the national level we have done to
understand the extent and magnitude of child abuse," she said.


UNICEF said in a statement that it hoped to see steps taken to
combat child abuse in the wake of the study.


"We look forward to a serious multisectoral dialogue following
the report's official release so that concrete steps can be
mapped out in order to prevent and reduce child abuse in any and
all situations," the agency said this week.


Of India's more than a billion people, almost 40 percent are aged
under 18.

