

Low-profile Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher has been praised
to the heights by England manager Steve McLaren as the team
prepares for forthcoming Euro 2008 qualifiers.


Carragher looks set to come in at left back against Israel in
Tel-Aviv on Saturday, though he normally plays in central defence
for his club.


England's strong central defensive pairing of John Terry and Rio
Ferdinand have been instrumental in keeping Carragher, who has
made 32 appearances for his country, out of his favourite
position.


However, having watched most of his recent performances -
particularly the 29 -year-old's superb displays against
Manchester United and Barcelona - McClaren would have no
hesitation in giving Carragher the responsibility of replacing
the suspended Ashley Cole.


"Jamie is one of those unsung heroes every team needs," said
McClaren after naming his squad for the Euro 2008 qualifier. "He
is very professional and very conscientious, someone who quietly
gets on with his job and is probably only missed when he is not
in the side.


"His performances against Manchester United and Barcelona were
fantastic and I am really delighted with his form."


As expected, McClaren has omitted Joey Barton, Gareth Barry and
Shaun Wright- Phillips, who all featured against Spain.


The England coach is facing a worrying few days, though, with 13
of his party due to be involved in FA Cup quarter-final replays
on Monday, threatening an injury nightmare which could completely
wreck his planning for the game.


At least Owen Hargreaves is available for the first time since
September after recovering from his broken leg.


The Manchester United target is a certain starter as McClaren
looks to get the best of out more attack-minded midfield duo
Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard to rebuild a qualifying campaign
which has seen England slump to third in Group E.


However, McClaren, whose own position will come under renewed
scrutiny should England fail, remains confident about England's
chances of progression.


"We have been in this situation many times before," he said. "I
have been involved with this squad for five years now and we have
had bad results in every qualification.


"This is the time when the big players have to step forward. We
have done it before. We are good enough to do it again. We have
to go out and prove it."


Following the Israel fixture, England play Andorra in Barcelona
on March 28.

