

China's central bank announced Saturday that one-year borrowing
and lending benchmark rates would be raised by 0.27 percentage
points from Sunday to rein in the economy.


In a statement on its Internet site, the People's Bank of China
said the interest rate on one-year loans would increase to 6.39
percent.


The expected announcement comes as authorities acknowledge that
growth in credit and liquidity are again gathering pace and also
after data showed inflation was approaching the 3.0 percent
threshold they set, with a consumer price index rise of 2.7
percent in February.


The rate rise should help rein in investment and lending growth,
maintain price stability and promote healthy development of the
economy, the bank said.


"By raising the interest rates, the central bank signaled its
concern over the trend towards a higher inflation rate and an
overheated economy", said Tang Min, chief economist with the Asia
Development Bank Mission in China.


There have been three rate rises since April with the aim of
slowing down the rapid growth in credit and investment.


Inflation figures released on Wednesday had reinforced
economists' expectations of a further rate rise.


The increase comes after Premier Wen Jiabao warned Friday that
lending and investment were growing too fast.


In remarks after the close of China's annual two-week
parliamentary session, Wen warned that the economy had to wean
itself off its credit and investment binge. "This is not
sustainable," Wen told press in Beijing.


"Now we have an excessively high investment ratio and we have
excessively large extension of credit and excessive liquidity in
the market."


Beijing has progressively tightened monetary policy since early
2006 and taken administrative measures to cool overheated
property and auto markets but the economy is still bounding
along.


China has jumped to fourth in the global economic rankings on the
back of breakneck growth of 10.7 percent last year despite
government efforts aimed at slowing the pace. It was the fourth
year of double-digit expansion.


This year, China's regulators have again pledged a more even-
keeled course at 8.0 percent growth, with the session of
parliament closing Friday with a motion to curb excessive
economic activity.


China earlier this week announced investment in urban
infrastructure rose 23.4 percent in the first two months of the
year from the same period in 2006, when the rise was 26.6
percent.


For all of 2006, fixed asset investment, a major driver for the
economy, increased 24 percent.


However, a slew of data released by the government this week
suggest that policy efforts to cool Asia's second largest economy
will have to be rethought and reapplied.


A rise of 18.5 percent in industrial output followed news of a
14.7 percent rise in consumer spending in the first two months
and a February inflation rate of 2.7 percent, a level the central
bank chief called "relatively high".


Growth in exports, which China has acknowledged it must do more
to slow and rebalance its trade relations, jumped 51 percent in
February while loans grew 36.8 percent in the two-month period.

