

Seeking to kickstart stalled talks on climate change, the world's
13 major industrialised and emerging economies found seven broad
areas of accord for tackling global warming and its effects
during a two-day meeting here.


But the United States blocked consensus for supporting the carbon
market, the centrepiece of the UN Kyoto Protocol's legally
binding approach for tackling the greenhouse gases that cause the
problem.


The meeting gathered environment ministers from the Group of
Eight industrialised countries (Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, Russia and the United States) and Brazil, China,
India, Mexico and South Africa.


German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel described the meeting
as "a big success" in providing momentum to addressing global
warming.


"The discussion was very frank, very open and very free. It was a
very positive atmosphere as well," Gabriel, whose country is
current president of the G8, told reporters.


Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change (UNFCCC), said: "This meeting exceeded my
expectations. It was a very open, very constructive meeting."


"There's consensus on the need for urgency, on the need to move
forward," de Boer said.


The ministers endorsed scientific evidence about global warming
and climate change and agreed that the solutions for tackling it
needed contributions from everyone, especially from
industrialised countries, delegates said.


They also agreed that measures on climate change should not
penalise developing countries' drive for prosperity, that poor
countries needed more help to adapt to climate shift, and that
measures to stop deforestation should be stepped up.


But the US representative, Environment Protection Agency (EPA)
Administrator Stephen Johnson, objected to an endorsement of the
carbon market as a means for tackling emissions, Gabriel said.


The United States also objected to offering financial incentives
for developing countries that voluntarily protect natural assets,
such as tropical rainforests, the German minister said.


"We thought that was regrettable," said Gabriel, adding though
that it was not a surprise. "(...) You can only be disappointed
if you expected otherwise."


Johnson said there had been "excellent dialogue. It was open, it
was frank discussion."


Explaining US objections on support for the carbon market, he
said, "The important things is that we need to work together to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions to avail ourselves of the tools
that make sense to each individual nation."


A summary of what was decided at the Potsdam talks will be
submitted to the June 6-8 G8 summit at the German Baltic resort
of Heiligendamm.


Japanese Environment Minister Masatoshi Wakabayashi said the
Heiligendamm summit would be the arena for debating climate
change in detail and warned it could play "a critical role" in
the fate of the Bali talks.


Negotiations on the Kyoto Protocol's future after it runs out in
2012 take place on the Indonesian island of Bali from December
3-14.


At present, Kyoto will not even dent global emissions of
greenhouse gases, which trap solar heat and thus drive up global
temperatures.


The future deal must somehow include the United States, the
world's number one polluter, to help accelerate and deepen
emissions cuts by developed countries, which bear historic
responsibility for today's crisis.


Under President George W. Bush, the US abandoned Kyoto, rejecting
especially its capping system by which rich countries -- but not
developing countries -- agree to pollution limits and face
penalties if they overstep them.


The cap, say Kyoto's defenders, is essential for trading
mechanisms that provide incentives to reduce emissions.


At a summit last week, the 27-nation European Union pledged to
cut its own greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and
deepen it to 30 percent if "international partners" follow suit.


Wakabayashi, speaking at a press conference, said the EU's cut
"is a very ambitious decision and we pay respect to it," although
he did not say whether Japan would take up the offer of 30
percent.


The other challenge in the climate talks will be to encourage big
developing countries such as Brazil, China and India to
strengthen their commitments.


These nations are wary of being lured into making targeted
pledges on curbing their emissions, fearing that this could
hamper their rise out of poverty.

