

Chelsea remained on Manchester United's heels in the Premiership
title race with a comfortable 3-0 dismissal of Sheffield United
at Stamford Bridge.


United's 4-1 victory over Bolton earlier in the day meant that
Jose Mourinho's men remain six points adrift but they made sure
no ground was lost as the title race enters its final phase.


The Blades could produce no response to goals from Andriy
Shevchenko, Salomon Kalou and substitute Michael Ballack and left
the capital fearing they will be without Rob Hulse for a
significant period after the forward suffered a suspected broken
leg.


Before kick-off, the injured Michael Essien had paraded the
League Cup on the pitch - and was soaked by an unexpected turning
on of the sprinkler system.


Once the match was underway, however, it was United who were
quickly caught out as Shevchenko, who had not featured in the
midweek victory at Manchester City, opened the scoring within 184
seconds.


Centre-back Ricardo Carvalho was the architect with a surge into
the opposition half and a pass to find the Ukrainian in plenty of
space on the edge of the box and the finish was worthy of a 30
-million-pound striker - a rising, left foot drive that gave
goalkeeper Paddy Kenny no chance.


The recalled Shaun Wright-Phillips showed great skill to nutmeg
Phil Jagielka and move into a shooting position in the box but
spoiled all that effort with a poor poke wide.


Kalou doubled the lead in the 17th minute with a simple finish
from two yards out after Shevchenko had flicked on Wright-
Phillips's cross from the right a split second before being
clattered by Chris Morgan.


The Blades, who remain seven points clear of the relegation
places, responded with a 30-yarder from Colin Kazim-Richards that
forced Petr Cech into an acrobatic parry.


Hulse sent a volley on the turn just wide before being hurt by
Cech's point- blank parry of the next chance, which had been set
up by Keith Gillespie's pass.


It was immediately apparent the striker had suffered a serious
leg injury and he was stretchered off to be replaced by Christian
Nade in the 27th minute.


United had a goal disallowed in the 32nd minute as Kazim-Richards
was almost on top of Cech as the goalkeeper parried a Morgan
header, with Claude Davis then dispatching the rebound.


With Monday's FA Cup quarter-final replay with Tottenham in mind,
Mourinho made a change at the break with Ballack replacing Frank
Lampard in the heart of midfield.


The German sent a 30-yard drive wide before heading home a
Wright-Phillips free- kick in the 58th minute, with the United
defence again guilty of switching off at the vital moment.


With victory already assured Chelsea made two more changes in the
65th minute with Didier Drogba replacing Shevchenko and Paulo
Ferreira coming on for Ashley Cole.


Arjen Robben almost made it 4-0 when he cut in from the right but
his curled effort flew narrowly wide and Jagielka was perfectly
placed to head a Drogba free-kick off the line with nine minutes
remaining.

