

Security officers arrested a Zimbabwe opposition party leader at
Harare's airport on Saturday as he prepared to fly to South
Africa, according to a party spokesman.


Arthur Mutambara, who is head of a faction of the Movement for
Democratic Change, was picked up by security forces at the
airport "this afternoon," said faction spokesman Maxwell Zimuto,
adding: "I had just dropped him off at the airport as he was
travelling to South Africa."


Harrison Nkomo, a lawyer for Mutambara, said he had no
information on why his client had been detained.


"I am on my way to the law-and-order section at Harare central,"
he said. "I still want to ascertain why they arrested him."


The other MDC faction is led by Morgan Tsvangirai, who was
allegedly beaten by police after being arrested last Sunday,
leaving him with serious head injuries.


Meanwhile, Zimbabwean officials have confiscated passports
belonging to two other opposition officials -- also hospitalised
after being beaten by security forces on Sunday -- who were being
airlifted to South Africa for medical treatment, a lawyer said.


"Security agents have taken passports belonging to Grace Kwinje
and Sekai Holland," Aleck Muchadehama told AFP.


"The passports were taken at Harare International Airport as the
two were being air lifted on a charter flight to South Africa for
medical attention.


"The agents demanded that the two produce a certificate from the
health minister authorising their transfer from the Avenues
hospital. This is a right to life, how can they ask for such a
thing?"


Muchadehama said the two politicians have since returned to the
Avenues hospital.


The beating of Tsvangirai has drawn sharp international criticism
of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe.


Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett accused Mugabe in a
BBC television interview to be broadcast Sunday of waging
violence against opponents as a "deliberate act of policy."


The African Union on Saturday called on Zimbabwe to respect human
rights and democratic principles, in its strongest comments yet
on the political crisis engulfing the country.

