

A Kris Boyd hat-trick helped Rangers demolish Aberdeen 3-0 at
Ibrox on Saturday and take a huge step towards Champions League
football next season.


The striker's three first half goals put the Ibrox side on the
way to an easy Scottish Premier League victory to take them seven
points ahead of the third placed Dons.


And, with Celtic already certainties to lift the title - with a
13 point advantage before their match away to Falkirk on Sunday -
Walter Smith's Rangers side now look certain to finish as
runners-up.


Rangers had the first chance of the match when Alan Hutton's long
throw-in found its way to Charlie Adam on the edge of the penalty
area and his first-time shot drifted narrowly wide of Dons
goalkeeper Jamie Langfield's post.


But in the eighth minute the home side did take the lead.


Spanish striker Nacho Novo laid the ball out to Hutton who sent a
high lob across goal for Boyd to rise above Aberdeen defender
Russell Anderson and send a header into the bottom corner of the
net.


The Ibrox side were well in control with Aberdeen struggling to
exert any pressure on the Rangers rearguard.


In the 22nd minute the visitors created their first opening,
although Lee Miller's powerful drive from 20-yards was too close
to Rangers goalkeeper Allan McGregor who saved comfortably.


The Dons had not defeated Rangers on their own patch since a 2-1
victory in September 1991 and in the 25th minute the hosts
ensured their miserable record would continue.


Adam's attempted cross from the left deflected off the leg of
Aberdeen midfielder Scott Severin and Boyd was the first to react
to prod the ball home from six-yards.


And in the 31st minute Boyd completed his hat-trick to end any
lingering hopes the visitors may have had of taking anything from
the game.


Novo's pass released Hutton on the right and after he slid in to
win the ball from Dons defender Andrew Considine he pulled it
back for Boyd to rifle past Langfield from eight-yards.


Rangers began the second half in the same manner as the first by
pushing Aberdeen onto the back-foot without being able to test
Langfield.


Severin tried to pull one back for the visitors in the 57th
minute with a drive from the edge of the box which was a foot too
high of McGregor's crossbar.


At the other end Boyd tried for a fourth in the 59th minute with
a curling right-foot effort from 20-yards that just missed the
target.


There were few other goalmouth incidents as Rangers coasted to an
easy victory in front of a crowd of 50,354 to all but secure
second spot in the league.


In the other SPL games on Saturday there was a shock at
Tynecastle where Dundee United hammered Hearts 4-0.


The home side had been reduced to 10 men when Senegalese defender
Ibrahim Tall was sent-off before half-time. United took advantage
after the break with Barry Robson scoring a hat-trick, with Noel
Hunt scoring their third.


This result means fourth placed Hearts remain six points behind
Aberdeen in the chase for qualification for the UEFA Cup.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline won 3-1 away to Inverness
Caledonian Thistle to give themselves a glimmer of hope of
surviving in the SPL.


Caley had been ahead by half-time through Marcus Paatelainen but
two goals from Stephen Glass, and one in between from Jim
McIntyre meant the Pars move to within six points of second
bottom St Mirren, who have one game in hand.

