

Polish President Lech Kaczynski told German  chancellor Angela
Merkel on Saturday his country would not block efforts to revive
the European Union's constitution.


Kaczynski also told Merkel that Warsaw would sign a declaration
at an EU summit next week to mark the 50th anniversary of the
Treaty of Rome, which founded the then European Community.


"Poland has certain reservations about the wording of the
declaration of Berlin but in refusing to sign it we would have
been the only country not to do so," Kaczynski told public
television following a meeting with the chancellor in Jurata in
northern Poland.


Polish leaders have wanted references to Christianity to be
included in the statement set to be issued to mark the EU
anniversary.


Merkel left the meeting at the Polish president's residence on
the Hel peninsula at about noon after two days of meetings aimed
at improving strained relations between the two neighbours.


On Friday, after her arrival Merkel had warned Poland not to
block the European constitution.


"The time for reflection is past. It's time for decisions," she
said. "Let me say this uncategorically: failure to do this would
be a historic missed opportunity."


Poland, a devoutly Catholic country, has dug in its heels for a
reference to Christianity in the constitution.


However Kaczynski said Poland was willing to resume talks on the
basis of the existing text.


The constitution project has been ratified by 18 member states
but remains in limbo after it was rejected in referendums in
France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Led by Poland's euro-sceptic identical twins, Kaczynski and his
brother Jaroslaw, the prime minister, Warsaw last month urged the
EU to ditch attempts to revive the constitution.


Relations between Germany and Poland have been tested recently.


One touchy issue involves Germans who were expelled from Polish
territory as World War II drew to a close.


They were among some 14 million German civilians who were
displaced, deported or expelled from their homes in eastern
Europe from 1944 onwards as the Soviet Red Army advanced and
Germany's Third Reich crumbled.


Merkel has in the past spoken out in favour of a proposed centre
for Germany's war displaced -- a project that the Kaczynski twins
bitterly oppose, saying it is an attempt to portray Germans as
war victims and rewrite history.

