

Eleven Manchester United fans were hospitalised, one with a stab
wound to the neck, after violence erupted before and during their
Champions League clash with AS Roma, officials said Thursday.


European football's governing body, UEFA, said it had opened an
investigation into the crowd trouble, which left nearly 20 people
injured, some seriously, after United fans clashed with baton-
wielding riot police.


A decision on whether or not go ahead with full disciplinary
charges was likely to be taken after the Easter break, said a
UEFA spokesman in Geneva. "We're still waiting for the match
reports from officials," he said.


A spokesman for the British embassy in Rome told AFP that 11
British fans had been treated in hospital for a variety of
injuries, "none life-threatening".


"Two of them had to stay overnight, and one needed surgery," the
spokesman said.


United and AS Roma fans were involved in running battles outside
the Rome Olympic Stadium before Wednesday's game and riot police
baton-charged United fans on the terraces when fresh disturbances
erupted during the quarter-final match, which ended in a 2-1
victory for the Italian side.


Shocking television images showed one English supporter with
blood pouring from a head wound as he was carried away by other
fans. One English fan was stabbed in the back of the neck --
among a total of 18 who were injured.


"Too much beer" despite a ban on sales of alcohol was probably
partly to blame for the clashes, the sports daily Gazzetto dello
Sport said Thursday.


Rome police chief Achille Serra had ordered that no alcohol be
sold to fans in the Italian capital from midday Wednesday until
3:00 am on Thursday.


"Despite the order ... beer and strong drinks could be bought
without a problem," wrote the Rome daily Il Messaggero. "Three
bar trucks were freely handing out drinks even a few metres
(yards) from the stadium," it said.


Manchester United had warned its travelling supporters to be wary
of certain parts of the Italian capital because of the risk of
trouble from Roma followers.


The Gazzetta dello Sport commented that the British were right to
fear violence ahead of the tie.


"Despite the indignation of the mayor of Rome and the fans, the
fears of the English turned out to be well-founded," the paper
said.


There were fights between fans as they made their way to the key
match and more troubles erupted inside.


ANSA said around 300 English fans, many of whom were inebriated,
were involved in street fights. Riot police brought the two sides
under control.


Trouble inside the stadium blew up after Rodrigo Taddei's goal
put Roma ahead.


Roma supporters ran towards the fencing separating them from
United counterparts and pelted them with plastic drink bottles,
many of them full.


United fans launched similar tactics and police baton-charged the
United supporters.


The troubles came only a day after the Italian government passed
new laws in a bid to stamp out mounting football hooliganism in
recent months.


Strict new security measures were introduced shortly after a
policeman was killed when Catania fans went on the rampage during
their derby match against Sicilian rivals Palermo in February.


The authorities briefly closed some Italian stadiums after the
death while security measures were improved.


The government clampdown demanded that clubs take more
responsibilty for security, including more closed-circuit
television cameras at stadiums, named tickets, electronic
turnstiles, adequate stewarding, and crowd filtering areas
outside grounds.


These measures were temporary until approved in parliament --
which occurred Tuesday with a unanimous vote.


Any fan carrying a banner that incites violence or contains
offensive language faces arrest.

