

The Bank of England held its key interest rate at 5.25 percent
for the third month in a row on Thursday, ahead of a likely
quarter-point increase in May according to analysts.


Sterling fell against rival currencies after the decision, which
economists expect to have been a close call by the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) following recent strong economic
data.


British borrowing costs remain at the same level as US interest
rates, while in the eurozone they stand at 3.75 percent. Japan's
key rate is 0.50 percent.


"The decision for unchanged interest rates today may well have
followed a very tight vote and we strongly suspect that this will
mark only a temporary reprieve," Global Insight economist Howard
Archer said.


The BoE has hiked rates three times since last August, most
recently with a surprise hike in January, as it fights above-
target annual inflation which surged to a decade-high of 3.0
percent in December.


Archer added: "We believe that it is pretty short odds that the
Bank of England will lift interest rates to 5.50 percent in May
as a precautionary measure aimed at containing medium-term
inflation risks."


The BoE had also opted for no change in March, sticking to its
wait-and-see approach after British annual inflation fell heavily
in January.


However inflation bounced back in February, reaching 2.8 percent,
in part owing to higher air fares.


The BoE is tasked by Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour
government with keeping 12-month inflation close to a 2.0 percent
target.


The MPC gave no reasoning behind Thursday's decision, as is
customary when no change is made to the "repo" rate -- at which
the BoE lends to commercial banks.


Economists will have to wait for the minutes from this month's
two-day meeting, which are due to be published on April 18.


"Policy action (to raise rates) seems most likely in May," Audrey
Childe- Freeman, economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London, said after Thursday's decision.


In its February inflation report, the BoE said it expected
British annual inflation to drop below its 2.0 percent target
over the next 12 months -- assuming that interest rates rose to
5.50 percent.

