

China will see "very strong" growth in 2007, but the government
does not need to be too concerned about bottlenecks and other
signs of overheating, the World Bank said Thursday.


While domestically the world's fourth-largest economy seems to
have few problems accommodating fast expansion, there are,
however, vast external imbalances, the World Bank warned.


"We continue to think that growth in China will remain very
strong this year, and we think that it's OK," said Louis Kuijs,
senior economist with the World Bank in Beijing.


"We don't think the government needs to be overly worried about
that," he told a briefing in the Chinese capital, as the World
Bank released its six-monthly report on East Asia's economic and
social health.


China's central bank said last week it expects the economy to
expand by 10 percent this year, marking the fifth consecutive
year of double-digit economic growth following a 10.7 percent
rise in 2006.


The World Bank officially forecasts 9.6 percent growth in the
Chinese economy this year, but suggested Thursday that it will
probably be more than that, based on macroeconomic data released
so far in 2007.


"Growth is high, but it's not obvious that the economy is
overheated from the macroeconomic perspective," said Kuijs.


An overheated economy usually shows up in soaring inflation or
bottlenecks such as goods piling up in the ports, he said.


"We don't observe those kinds of tensions, and we think the
macroeconomic situation is quite benign," he said.


But the World Bank economist pointed out there were growing
imbalances between China and the rest of the world, in the form
of a huge Chinese trade surplus.


"A lot of the demand that we see in the Chinese economy is
actually not coming from Chinese households and Chinese
companies, it's coming from foreign households and companies," he
said.


"If there is one macroeconomic tension it is this external
imbalance."


In February, the last month for which data are available, China
posted a near- record 23.8-billion-dollar trade surplus, almost
10 times the year-earlier figure.


China's surplus last year soared 74 percent to hit a record 177.5
billion dollars but some economists are pencilling in 230 billion
dollars for 2007.

