

Oil prices were mixed in volatile Asian trade Thursday after Iran
freed 15 captured British military personnel, easing fears a
diplomatic row could escalate and disrupt crude supplies, dealers
said.


This news, however, was offset by disappointing energy inventory
data from the United States, the world's biggest energy consumer,
they added.


The sailors and marines were on a flight back to London on
Thursday, a day after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
defused a growing crisis by pardoning them as a "gift" to the
British people.


At 3:00 pm (0700 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down one cent to 64.37
dollars a barrel from 64.38 dollars in late US trades.


The contract had dipped as low as 63.56 dollars in New York trade
after the news from Iran.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was up 25 cents to 68.65.
The contract had fallen to 66.93 dollars on news of the sailors'
release.


"Prices have eased due to the definite, peaceful resolution of
the row between Britain and Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"But the market is still supported by enough fundamental factors
to keep prices from sliding too far down, so the easing has been
rather modest."


Among the factors supporting higher oil prices were a sharper-
than-expected fall in US gasoline (petrol) inventories, recent US
refinery outages and lingering concerns over Iran's nuclear
programme, he said.


The weekly report by the US Department of Energy showed gasoline
reserves fell by five million barrels to 205.2 million last week,
against a forecast drawdown of 300,000 barrels.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched ahead of the US
driving season, which sees Americans take to the roads for their
summer vacations.


The drop in product inventories were supportive of prices, even
though US crude inventories jumped 4.3 million barrels to 332.7
million in the week to March 30.


In a surprise and dramatic announcement Wednesday, Ahmadinejad
said Iran was releasing the 15 British navy personnel captured by
the Islamic Republic almost a fortnight ago.


Tehran has maintained they were in Iranian waters when they were
captured but Britain insisted otherwise.


Concerns about the standoff caused by their detention had
propelled oil prices to seven-month highs above 69 dollars in
London on Monday.


The crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations with the
West, with the United States refusing to rule out military action
over Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


Tehran has said its nuclear research is for peaceful purposes,
not a cover to build an atomic bomb as suspected by Western
powers.


"Even though we have subtracted the Iranian seizure of the
sailors from crude pricing, prices may not completely go back to
61 or 62 dollars, (where oil) was trading around before the
crisis," Shum said.

