

British telecom giant Vodafone said on Thursday it was buying
only 52 percent of Indian mobile operator Hutchison Essar but
would have an "economic interest" in 67 percent as it insisted
the 11.1-billion-dollar deal met Indian foreign investment rules.


"We have been maintaining that we have effective 52 percent
control," said Vodafone spokesman V.K. Cherian, adding that the
company had options to purchase the remaining 15 percent.


"We have received consistent advice that the structural
arrangements for our holding in Hutch is legal and compliant with
India's law including the 74 percent foreign ownership cap,"
Cherian told AFP.


"We are absolutely confident that the deal will receive approval.


His statement came as the law ministry was reported to have
advised further scrutiny of the deal to see whether the
shareholding structure meets Indian regulations allowing foreign
direct investment (FDI) of up to 74 percent in a domestic telecom
firm.


Vodafone Group Plc, the world's largest mobile phone company by
sales, agreed in February to buy Hong Kong-based Hutchison
Telecommunications International Ltd's (HTIL) controlling
interest in India's fourth-largest cellular player Hutchison
Essar.


But approval of the deal has been dogged by controversy amid
questions about whether it complies with India's foreign
investment rules.


HTIL holds 52 percent of Hutchison Essar directly and has an
"economic interest" in another 15 percent held by Asim Ghosh,
Hutchison Essar managing director, and Analjit Singh, chairman of
healthcare group Max India, officials say.


The balance -- 33 percent -- is held by Indian steel-to-shipping
conglomerate Essar but two-thirds of its stake is controlled
through an offshore company for tax reasons, making it foreign.


The Indian media has reported that Hutchison Telecom stood
guarantor for the loans for minority stakeholders Ghosh and
Singh. If India decides this reported arrangement made the
minority stakes foreign owned, the FDI cap of 74 percent in
Hutchison Essar may be breached.


Both Singh and Ghosh say they are the real owners of the stake
and not a front for HTIL.

