

With speculation high over who will inherit the four billion
dollar estate of late Hong Kong tycoon Nina Wang, new tales
emerged Thursday about the unusual private life of Asia's richest
woman.


Tales of nights spent with her pet monkey and her legendary
meanness -- including an interview with a maid who said she never
received a pay rise in 14 years of service -- stood out from the
intense media coverage of her death.


In a city that venerates business leaders as celebrities, Wang's
demise from an unspecified illness commanded the sort of
headlines usually reserved for movie stars and politicians.


The Standard daily cited sources who said her fortune, put at 4.2
billion US dollars by Forbes magazine, would be divided up
between her sister and two unnamed employees who would now run
her Chinachem real-estate empire.


It reported that the childless Wang, who was known for wearing
free clothes made by friends and dining out only at fast-food
restaurants, had set up a trust fund to help keep the company
going.


Citing unnamed sources, Ming Pao Daily News said the money could
be split among her two sisters and a brother. The Ta Kung Pao
paper said her 93-year-old mother could be entitled to the entire
fortune.


The South China Morning Post quoted a barrister saying that under
local law, her father-in-law Wang Din-shin, with whom she fought
an eight-year battle over control of Chinachem, would be unlikely
to receive a penny of the fortune.


But many newspapers said Wang, nicknamed "Little Sweetie" for her
trademark pigtails resembling a Japanese comic character, may as
well donate her money to a charity to help the needed in mainland
China, as she vowed to do in 2001.


Wang spent much of the last 10 years of her life successfully
fending off 96 -year-old Wang's claim that she had forged her
husband Teddy's will after he disappeared in 1990 in an apparent
kidnapping.


Although papers heaped praise on Wang -- Apple Daily called her
"a role model for Hong Kong women" -- many focused on her quirky
lifestyle, including a penchant for mini-skirts and platform
shoes when she was well into her 60s.


Ming Pao Daily News published an interview with her Filipina
domestic helper, named Mina, who said Wang never raised her
monthly salary beyond 4,000 Hong Kong dollars (513 US) in the 14
years she worked for the eccentric tycoon.


Even more shocking: Mina said that Wang was so lonely after
Teddy's disappearance, she took in a pet monkey -- and sometimes
slept in the same bed with it.


Born in Shanghai, Nina and her husband were childhood friends.
They began dating at the age of 11 and married seven years later,
moving to Hong Kong in the 1950s.


Teddy built up Chinachem Group, mostly on real estate deals, but
his riches led to trouble. He was kidnapped in 1983 and only
released after the family paid a ransom of 11 million US dollars.


When he was kidnapped a second time in 1990, he was never seen
again and his body was never found. He was legally declared dead
nine years later.


Insisting on keeping her title "Mrs Wang", she always believed
Teddy was still alive and would one day return to her.


Referring to the Nina and Teddy's legendary fondness for each
other, lawmaker Martin Lee, a family friend and counsel, was
quoted as saying in the Post: "Now she's gone, they can be
together."

