

Ukrainian football boss Grigory Surkis has expressed his
confidence in Ukraine and Poland's joint bid to host the 2012
European championships despite a tough political crisis in the
country.


"There's still enough time to stabilise the political situation
in the country before the final vote date," Surkis said this
week.


"But even in case the political opponents fail to find a
compromise we all should remember that we have a very ambitious
task -- to win the right to host the championships -- regardless
of the political situation in the country."


"I hope that the wisdom and experience of my collegues in the
UEFA executive committee will dominate and help them to take the
right decision regardless of the quickly-changing political
circumstances."


Former Russian Football Union chief Vyacheslav Koloskov, who
still has a seat on the UEFA executive board, supported Surkis,
saying the political crisis in Ukraine would never influence the
results of the final vote.


"Italy is currently living in a state of political crisis but
nobody links this situation to the decision of staging the
championship in the country," Koloskov said.


"Besides, the event will take place five years later. It's more
than enough to overcome any crisis."


Though Ukraine's opposing forces remain sharply at odds in the
political arena, they are completely united concerning the
country's bid to host Euro 2012 together with neighbouring
Poland.


A law spelling out terms for preparatory measures to host the
2012 championships was unanimously approved by Ukraine's
parliament and has received full backing from the country's
government.


Even Ukraine's President Viktor Yushchenko has promised to come
to the Welsh city Cardiff later this month to support the joint
Ukraine-Poland bid for the right to host Euro 2012.


Four Ukrainian cities selected as potential event venues have
already started preparations including renovation of their
existing football facilities.


And the Kiev mayor's office has said the capital city would
completely renovate the 86,000-seat Olympic stadium should the
country win the right to host the European football extravaganza.


In the west of the country, Lviv City Hall has also expressed
their readiness to renovate the city's 28,000-seat football venue
and increase its capacity.


Ukraine's reigning champions Shakhtar Donetsk are currently
building a new 50,000-seater in their native city, while
Dnepropetrovsk, who finished sixth last season, have also begun
the construction of a new arena in their town.


Kharkiv and Odessa are also ready to host Euro games in case UEFA
decide to increase the number of the championships' finalists at
their meeting later this year.


However, the country still has plenty of work to do to meet the
strict demands of the European football ruling body for the host
country of the European championships.


Transportation and communication facilities in event host cities
are in need of major upgrades, while many new hotels need to be
built to accommodate the hundreds of thousands of fans, officials
and other guests who would flock to Ukraine for the European
football festival.


Despite the challenges, Ukrainian authorities say the country is
ready to do what it takes to ensure that Ukraine is capable of
hosting the event in line with the highest international
standards.


The country's youth, family and sports minister, Viktor Korzh,
said there are major investors who are ready to finance
preparation works for the event, while the state government had
also expressed their backing for the project.


"There are serious investors, who are ready to invest up to 37
billion grivnas (about seven billion dollars) in the construction
of airports, roads, hotels and improving of sports infrastructure
in case Ukraine and Poland win the right to host the Euro2012,"
the minister said.


Ukraine and Poland are in the race for the right to host the 2012
European championship along with joint-bidders Croatia and
Hungary, and the World Cup winners Italy.


The decision on the winning bid to host the event will be taken
on April 18 at Cardiff, Wales.

