

Plans by Australia's second largest media company Fairfax to
takeover rival Rural Press cleared a key hurdle Thursday when
minority shareholders backed the 2.8 billion dollar (2.3 billion
US) deal.


Shareholders voted in favour of the merger a day after the
biggest shake-up of Australia's media laws took effect, relaxing
ownership rules and setting the scene for a major scramble for
assets.


The scheme meeting of holders of 83 million Rural Press Ltd
preferred shares gave it an overwhelmingly thumbs up with 99.79
percent of the votes cast in favour.


The next crucial test will come in two weeks when Rural Press
hosts a similar meeting on April 19 for its ordinary
shareholders.


If the deal is then approved by regulators, it will create a nine
billion dollar media giant better able to withstand unwelcome
takeovers bids than the two independent firms would have been.


"We are greatly encouraged by the overwhelming vote to approve
the proposed merger of our two companies by Rural Press'
preferred shareholders," Fairfax chairman Ron Walker said.


"This is a significant step forward. We will continue to work
diligently to successfully conclude this historic transaction,"
he added.


The boards of both companies have unanimously endorsed the offer
to Rural Press shareholders of either two Fairfax shares and 3.30
dollars in cash, or alternatively, 2.3 Fairfax shares and 1.80
dollars in cash.


Australia's media landscape was transformed on Wednesday when new
laws took effect, easing restrictions on how many television,
radio and print holdings a group can control in a single city or
region.


The announcement of the looming shake-up last year triggered a
flurry of deals by media tycoons trying to stake claims in the
sector, and analysts say major moves are expected now that the
law has come into force.


The government says its reforms aim to shake up a media scene
which has long been dominated by a handful of print and broadcast
moguls including Rupert Murdoch and the late Kerry Packer.


The new rules will also allow foreign players to take a greater
share of the market.


But the relaxation of cross-ownership restrictions in media
markets has prompted fears that the moves could simply further
concentrate media ownership.

