

Heavy exchanges of weapon fire and shelling broke out briefly
overnight in a Mogadishu district where Ethiopian troops are
facing off with Islamist insurgents and clan fighters, residents
said Thursday.


Other areas of the capital remained calm for a fourth day, one
week after the start of the heaviest fighting in the battered
city in 15 years.


An AFP correspondent heard heavy exchanges of gunfire and mortar
shelling near the city's main soccer stadium at around midnight
Wednesday, which lasted for around 15 minutes. It was unclear if
there were any casualties.


Ethiopian troops are positioned in and around the stadium and
have been facing off with insurgents, entrenched behind sandbags,
in the streets nearby since fighting tailed off on Sunday.


Most residents have fled the area, and the neighbouring Al Kamin
neighbourhood, a flashpoint for the heavy fighting that broke out
last Thursday with an Ethiopian offensive on Islamist rebels
backed by clan militia.


Elders from the city's dominant Hawiye clan said they would
collect bodies from inside houses in the area Thursday, after
beginning the grim operation the previous day in a tense
atmosphere as the rival forces looked on.


They said they had buried at least 16 bodies in a cemetery on the
outskirts of the city on Thursday.


The elders said they were due to meet with Ethiopian commanders
Thursday afternoon for further talks, after reaching a tentative
ceasefire deal with them on Sunday.


Ethiopian commanders have yet to confirm any truce.


A local rights group, which compiled figures from hospitals and
witnesses, said 381 civilians had died and 565 were wounded in
the four days of clashes that ended on Sunday.


The United Nations estimates that around 100,000 people, or one
tenth of the population, have fled Mogadishu since February,
including nearly half of those in the past 10 days.


Ethiopian-Somali forces drove Islamist fighters with alleged
links to the Al- Qaeda network out of Mogadishu and south and
central Somalia some three months ago.

