

Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal told French
voters Thursday that "women's time has come", urging them to back
her bid to become France's first woman head of state.


"Women's time has come, and I hope that the French will have the
audacity to prove it in the presidential election," she told a
forum in Paris organised by the women's magazine Elle and
addressed by all the main candidates.


"When there is progress for women, it also means progress for
men, it means progress for the whole of society," Royal told the
gathering at the Sciences Po political science institute.


Asked to spell out three key measures she would take in women's
favour if elected, Royal promised a framework law against
domestic violence, universal public childcare for toddlers, and
compulsory schooling from age three.


A 53-year-old mother of four, Royal is trailing slightly behind
right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy, 52, ahead of the April 22
first round.


Royal has proclaimed that she is bringing a woman's touch to
politics and complained of sexist hurdles barring her road to the
presidency, but polls show the candidates are drawing almost
equal support from men and women.


Sarkozy, who has promised to share cabinet posts equally between
men and women if elected, told the forum earlier he would call a
national consultation with business and labour leaders to stamp
out male-female wage inequalities.


He also promised to create a legally enforceable right to
childcare -- provided either by the state, at home or in the
workplace, by 2012, to allow mothers the freedom to return to
work.


In third place in the race, the centrist Francois Bayrou, 55,
attacked Royal's plans to offer universal childcare as creating
"yet another public service" and called instead for more targeted
measures to solve childcare problems.


Women make up more than half -- around 53 percent -- of the 44.5
million voters called to vote later this month. A run-off vote
between the top two candidates is scheduled for May 6.


One of the last western countries to grant women the right to
vote, in 1944, France marked a milestone when Edith Cresson
became its first woman prime minister in 1991 under Francois
Mitterrand. She resigned less than a year later.

