

World Trade Organisation members have voiced frustration at the
slow pace of negotiations ahead of a ministerial meeting of key
players in New Delhi next week, sources close to the talks said
Thursday.


The comments came after WTO director general Pascal Lamy chaired
a meeting on Wednesday attended by around 30 representatives of
member states.


"The frustration is mounting," a source close to the talks said,
referring to the inability of the G4 group of influential trading
nations -- the European Union, United States, Brazil and India --
to agree a common position on agriculture.


Member states said the chairs of negotiating groups should
present their positions for discussion.


The head of the agriculture group, New Zealand's Crawford
Falconer, has already said he will present his proposal for a
compromise text by the end of April.


Trade ministers from the G4 are to meet in New Delhi on April
11-12, and then be joined by their counterparts from Australia
and Japan.


The G4's own representatives characterised the situation as
"fragile," Geneva- based sources said.


Everything which has hitherto been agreed between the four powers
is conditional on an agriculture deal, the sources added.


The situation is causing mounting unhappiness amongst other WTO
members, who want to see greater transparency within the G4
negotiations, they said.


The Doha talks, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, aim to
remove barriers to global trade but are currently deadlocked, in
particular over steps to reduce agricultural tariffs and
subsidies.


Talks ground to a halt last July, though they have now been
relaunched, and all sides stress they are still committed to a
successful outcome.


The US and the EU are nevertheless still engaged in bitter
arguments over trade in agricultural goods, with Brussels
demanding more reductions in US farm subsidies and Washington
insisting that proposed European tariff cuts do not go far
enough.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson on Wednesday voiced high
hopes for the New Delhi talks.


"These talks are timely and important. If we are to use the
remaining window of opportunity open to us, we need to intensify
and accelerate the process of negotiation," Mandelson said.


"If we fail, Doha's prospects for this year will be lost," he
warned.

