

President Viktor Yushchenko moved to quell a political rebellion
against his rule on Thursday amid trenchant opposition to his
order to dissolve parliament and hold early elections.


The president was scheduled to meet the country's security
council in an emergency session to discuss the crisis after a
round of consultations with Ukrainian regional leaders and top
European officials.


Hundreds of anti-Yushchenko protesters meanwhile spent a third
night camped outside the parliament building and vowed again to
mass thousands into the streets of central Kiev.


"We want stability, we want calm," said Lyudmila Shalenko, 49,
who had a flag of the Regions party of Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych wrapped around her shoulders as she stood by the
parliament.


"We will stand until the end," said another protester, Nina
Antonovna, 65.


Yushchenko's arch rival Yanukovych, who leads a pro-Russian
coalition, has called on the government and parliament to stand
firm against the president's orders and await a decision by the
constitutional court.


A court ruling on the legality of Yushchenko's order is expected
within a month and the court is set to outline on Thursday the
procedure it will adopt for considering the appeal filed by
Yanukovych supporters.


Both men have sought to bolster their support in the current
power struggle.


Since issuing his order on Monday after a months-long stalemate
with Yanukovych, the president has spoken to the European Union's
foreign policy chief Javier Solana and the Council of Europe's
secretary general Terry Davis.


Yanukovych meanwhile has met with foreign ambassadors in Kiev,
has addressed the cabinet and his supporters in the streets and
is due to give a briefing about the crisis to foreign journalists
on Thursday.


Ukraine has been stuck in a political impasse since parliamentary
elections in March 2006 that brought Yanukovych to power after a
coalition formed after the Yushchenko-led Orange Revolution mass
protests of 2004 collapsed.


The Orange Revolution saw Yushchenko win out against Yanukovych
after his Moscow-backed rival's presidential election victory was
scrapped because of vote-rigging.


For many Yanukovych supporters, concentrated in the Russian-
speaking east of the country, the current crisis is a way of
getting back at pro-Western Yushchenko for the Orange Revolution.


Some 12,000 protesters rallied in central Kiev on Wednesday,
voicing anger against Yushchenko's order to hold snap elections
on May 27 just over a year after a parliamentary vote judged free
and fair by international observers.


The crisis has severely weakened Yushchenko, whose popularity
ratings have plummeted since his historic election victory. The
wave of optimism that brought him to power has given way to
widespread disillusionment.


But many people in this former Soviet republic of 47 million
people on the European Union's eastern border are also simply
weary of the endless political wrangling.


"They're tired of years of political haggling between Yushchenko
and Yanukovych. They're tired of constant conflict," Vladimir
Strelnikov, a commentator, wrote in the Komsomolskaya Pravda
daily.

