

Fifteen British sailors freed by Iran were flying home to London
on Thursday, jubilant and relieved at the dramatic end to their
two-week ordeal that had triggered a tense international
standoff.


The sailors and marines left Tehran on a British Airways flight
14 days after they were seized by Iranian forces in the northern
Gulf accused of violating Iranian territorial waters.


Their departure wraps up a rapid succession of events that began
when President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday abruptly deflated
the escalating diplomatic crisis by pardoning them as a "gift" to
the British people.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said one
of the commanders, Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state
television.


The 15 were whisked to the airport in a convoy escorted by Iran's
Revolutionary Guards and ushered into a VIP building amid high
secrecy and security where British ambassador Geoffrey Adams saw
them off.


Their flight is due to touch down in London around midday (1100
GMT), where they are likely to be greeted by relieved relatives
and a media frenzy.


Iranian television showed the sailors celebrating their release
on Wednesday, shaking hands, laughing and embracing each other.


Two of the sailors -- including the sole woman captive Faye
Turney -- waved to the camera and said "Teshakkor" or thank you
in Persian.


Friends and relatives of the captured navy personnel spent much
of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement by Ahmadinejad, who was later seen chatting
with the former prisoners.


"Although Iran has the right to prosecute them by following the
model of the prophet the 15 people were pardoned and their
freedom given as a gift to the British people," Ahmadinejad said
at a Tehran press conference.


His announcement was welcomed by Britain and governments across
the world as well as relatives of the captives, some of whom had
been paraded on state television "confessing" to trespassing in
Iranian waters.


The eight sailors and seven marines were seized at gunpoint while
patrolling the northern Gulf on March 23 and Iran had long
insisted the key to ending the crisis was a British admission
they had violated its territorial waters.


The standoff had further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's controversial nuclear programme, and had
sent jitters through world oil and financial markets.


Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed their release and thanked "our
friends and allies in the region who played their part" amid
reports Syria and Qatar helped bring about a peaceful resolution.


He said Britain, which took the issue to the UN Security Council
last week, had taken a "firm but calm" approach, "not negotiating
but not confronting either".


Their release followed days of a propaganda war played out in the
media but also behind-the scenes diplomacy, including talks
between top security official Ali Larijani and Blair's chief
foreign policy advisor on Tuesday.


In London, the press said their liberation was a victory for old-
fashioned diplomacy, but also questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war," said The
Independent.


Iran's press boasted that Tehran had won a commitment from
Britain for their freedom, a reference to Ahmadinejad's claim --
not confirmed by London -- that the British government had
promised in a letter not to repeat such incidents.


"The message of freedom, the humiliation of the powers," said
Jaam-Jam, the newspaper of Iran's state broadcaster.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters in line with a UN mandate,
but Iran says the sailors' Global Positioning System (GPS)
devices show they intruded on Iranian waters.


US President George W. Bush welcomed the release of the Britons
but Washington was at pains to deny any link to reports that five
Iranians captured by US forces in Iraq in January would be
granted their first consular access.


The crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations with the
West, with the United States refusing to rule out military action
over its nuclear drive and the United Nations imposing tough new
sanctions.


Oil prices had surged to near seven month highs above 69 dollars
over the standoff but in Asian trade, New York's main oil futures
contract was down to 64.29 dollars a barrel.


Families of the Britons erupted in joy and relief at the news of
their release.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


Ahmadinejad -- savouring his moment in the international
spotlight -- however still lashed out at Britain over its
handling of the crisis and decorated a Revolutionary Guards
commander who had seized the Britons.

