

The 15 British sailors flying back home on Thursday after two
weeks in captivity in Iran celebrated their release with water,
pistachio nuts -- and ill-fitting new suits.


The former detainees were seen on Iranian state television
Wednesday shaking hands, laughing and embracing each other in
relief after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's dramatic
announcement they would be released.


But while the champagne corks popped at home in Britain, the 14
men and one women were given bottles of water to toast the end of
their ordeal in the Islamic republic where alcohol is banned.


Faye Turney -- the only woman in the group -- waved to the camera
and said "Teshakkor" -- "thank you" in Persian in the footage
shown on Wednesday.


"I feel just relieved, happy to go home, the treatment here has
just been great but it will be nice to get back, get home and see
my family," the married mother-of-one said.


Asked if she had a message for the Iranian people, added: "Just
thank you for letting us go, and apologise for our actions."


New footage was released on Thursday showing the eight sailors
and seven marines opening colourful bags containing an array of
traditional gifts before their departure for London.


The 14 men and one woman smiled and laughed as they sipped tea
and waited to board their plane in the plush surroudings of the
presidential lounge at Tehran's international airport.


The pictures aired on Iran's Arabic-language channel Al-Alam
showed the sailors opening gifts ranging from traditional
handicrafts to Iranian pistachio nuts.


Their luggage, packed into a combination of matching traditional
Iranian woven bags and sports holdalls laid on by the
authorities, was also seen.


British ambassador Geoffrey Adams was then seen ushering the 15
on to a bus to deliver them to the British Airways plane that
later took off for London on the overcast morning.


The first footage of the released captives on Wednesday showed
the men chatting with Ahmadinejad in sometimes ill-fitting grey
and blue suits -- without ties in line with the custom of the
Islamic republic.


Turney wore a blue jacket and flowered headscarf.


"I went to Iran and all I got was this lousy suit," mocked the
front-page headline on Britain's leading daily tabloid The Sun.


In Wednesday's footage, Lieutenant Felix Carman spoke of how the
group had been "treated with a great deal of respect and dignity.
All our needs have been catered for."


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," he said.


"I'd like to say no harm was meant to Iranian people or its
territories whatsoever...I hope that this experience will help to
build the relationship between our countries."


Captain Chris Air also stressed that the group had been treated
"very well" and shown "respect for all of our rights".


"They have taken care of us medically and physically and given us
plenty of food and water and looked after all our comforts," he
said.


"No-one has been harmed in any way, so I just want to make sure
that some rumours that have been going around are totally
untrue."

