

Kremlin-backed strongman Ramzan Kadyrov was to be inaugurated as
Chechnya's president on Thursday in a ceremony celebrating his
near-total control of the southern Russian province.


The ceremony was to take place in the north Chechen oil-producing
town of Gudermes rather than the capital Grozny, which still bear
scars from two wars with Russia.


Kadryov was nominated for the post by President Vladimir Putin
after he recently turned 30, the minimum age for holding the
post.


Located between the Caspian and Black Seas in the Caucasus
mountains, Chechnya has long been a symbol of resistance to
Moscow, fighting wars for independence from 1994-1996 and again
from 1999.


Recognisable by his tufty beard and low-slung tie, Kadyrov has
been in de facto control since the death of his father, Akhmad
Kadyrov, in a 2004 bomb attack.


Among the Chechen population he is both feared and respected.


Human rights organisations accuse him of personal involvement in
disappearances and torture, some of the latter allegedly
inflicted at a private prison at his home in Tsenteroi.


He is also credited with overseeing a massive Moscow-backed
rebuilding programme in recent years.


On Wednesday, in the build-up to the ceremonies, Chechen security
forces killed a leading rebel, Suleiman Imurzayev, otherwise
known as Khairulla, in an operation personally planned by Kadyrov
in Chechnya's Vedeno district, Russian media reported.


On Thursday Kommersant newspaper quoted an unnamed prosecution
official as saying that Imurzayev had been shot at close range in
the stomach followed by a "control shot" to the head, casting
doubt on the official claim that he had been killed in a gun
battle.


Also ahead of the inauguration Kadyrov made a pilgrimage to the
Islamic holy city of Mecca, polishing the image he has cultivated
as a devout Muslim.


His inauguration does not mean the end of Chechnya's troubles and
the possibility of further conflict with Moscow remains, said
analyst Alexei Malashenko of the Moscow Carnegie Centre.


Moscow "does not trust him, especially his law enforcement
forces.... If Russian troops leave the republic, he will do as he
pleases," Malashenko said.


Kadyrov controls local oil revenues and "does not want to share
with Moscow officials, unlike his predecessors."

