

Asian stocks closed mixed on Thursday following a subdued by
performance by Wall Street overnight and with investors
positioning themselves ahead of regional holidays.


Two days of solid gains, which sent many markets to historical
highs, aided profit-taking resulting in Sydney falling 0.30
percent, Tokyo also dropped 0.30 percent, Bangkok fell 0.15
percent and Seoul by 0.09 percent.


Jakarta was the worst on the day, slumping 1.38 percent after its
central bank defied expectations and decided against cutting
interest rates.


Elsewhere the mood was more buoyant with Shanghai, up 0.84
percent, and Singapore, up 0.39 percent, again closing at record
highs. Mumbai rose 0.54 percent, Kuala Lumpur was 0.49 percent
higher while Wellington was flat.


Hong Kong, Taipei and Manila were closed while most other market
will also be closed Friday and Monday for regional holidays,
including Easter.


TOKYO: Share prices took a step back as investors locked in
profits after two days of strong gains, turning cautious on the
eve of key US jobs data.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 52.67 points to 17,491.42. Volume fell
to 2.14 billion shares from 2.31 billion on Wednesday.


Hideyuki Suzuki, a strategist at SBI Securities, said the losses
"were simply due to profit-taking after two days of rallies."


The Nikkei 225 had gained more than 500 points in the past two
days.


"But there was selective buying of stocks such as those of some
high-tech companies," Suzuki said.


Some investors were also staying on the sidelines ahead of
closely watched US jobs data to be released Friday, dealers said.


Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Management,
said the Nikkei's losses were quite modest after Wednesday's
gains of 300 points.


He said that the market had also been supported by the stability
of the yen and the steadiness of prices on Wall Street despite
the release overnight of data that gave mixed signals about the
US economy.


"Excessive worries about the US economy have receded, although
uncertainty still remains," Akino said.


Nintendo rose 550 yen or 1.6 percent to 34,300 after the company
said its earnings for the fiscal year ended March 31 would exceed
its forecasts because of strong sales of its game machines.


HONG KONG: Closed.


SEOUL: Share prices closed slightly lower, with foreign interest
in IT shares largely offset by profit taking.


Dealers said Wall Street's overnight gains gave the market an
initial rally but the rise was only short-lived as some investors
cashed out and moved to the sidelines following weak consumer
confidence data.


The KOSPI index closed down 1.37 points at 1,482.04.


The consumer expectations index, which measures sentiment looking
six months ahead, fell to 97.8 in March from 98.1 in February,
the National Statistical Office said.


The downturn follows gains over the previous two months.


TAIPEI: Closed.


SHANGHAI: Share prices shrugged off early profit-taking to set
another record, adding 0.84 percent on continued fund inflows,
with financials and property developers in focus.


Dealers said the latest gains mean the Shanghai Composite index
has risen for 13 of the last 14 days, chalking up successive
record highs at the same time as investors anticipate more gains
driven by fresh fund inflows and a stronger yuan.


They said larger institutional investors appear to be preparing
for the expected launch soon of stock index futures, a key
instrument used in developed markets to hedge risk and leverage
positions.


The Shanghai Composite Index rose 27.60 points to 3,319.14 on
turnover of 114.50 billion yuan (14.77 billion dollars).


"In late afternoon trade, some institutional investors hunted for
bargains in financials, which have seen corrections in recent
sessions, in preparation for upcoming index futures," said Zhang
Yi, an analyst at Yibang Investment.


Dealers said the strong advance since the sharp sell-off at the
end of February appears to be justified by expected strong
earnings growth this year, with investors looking forward.


"Overall price levels are indeed overvalued if you judge them by
static price- to-earnings ratios, but if you take into
consideration profit growth expectations for this year, current
prices can be well justified," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at
Changjiang Securities.


Hong Yuan Securities was up its 10 percent daily limit at 25.30
yuan.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 0.30 percent lower, slipping off
record highs as investors took profits ahead of the long Easter
weekend.


Dealers said players were cautious ahead of key US non-farm
payrolls data that was due Friday, giving American markets time
to ract while their Australian counterparts are closed Friday and
Monday for public holidays.


The SP/ASX 200 lost 20.1 points at 6,077.1 while the broader All
Ordinaries index fell 15.6 points to 6,063.4 at the end of the
shortened trading day.


But despite the market coming off its highs spurred by a flurry
of acquisitions, AMP Capital Investors head of investment
strategy Shane Oliver said the Australian market looked set to
maintain its recent upward trend.


"Our view remains that both global and Australian shares are on
track to provide solid gains for the rest of year," he said.


Turnover was 1.54 billion shares worth 5.03 billion dollars (4.1
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 601 to 538 and 378
stocks unchanged.


There was profit taking in leading resources stocks BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto, which led wider market down after Wednesday's
solid gains from the miners.


BHP Billiton dropped 0.31 dollars to 30.33.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed at a fresh record high supported
by gains in technology and agricultural plantation stocks and a
rise in Wall Street overnight.


However, profit-taking ahead of the long Easter weekend curbed
the market's upside, they said.


The Straits Times Index rose 12.94 points to 3,345.86. Volume
totalled 1.90 billion shares worth 1.72 billion Singapore dollars
(1.14 billion US).


"The index is already at a peak so there is bound to be some
profit-taking," a dealer at a local brokerage said, adding that
valuations were also becoming "a bit heavy".


Singapore Press Holdings advanced 0.02 to 4.50.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.49 percent higher in a mixed
session, with rotational interest in companies in water-related
industries offsetting profit- taking.


Dealers said trading was quiet ahead of the long weekend in most
overseas markets for the Easter holidays.


The composite index closed up 6.17 points at 1,277.48. Volume
traded was 1.729 billion shares, valued at 2.043 billion ringgit
(592.2 million dollars).


TA Research senior technical analyst Stephen Soo said trading
volume had thinned, likely due to investors turning cautious.


"The market will see keen selling pressure as the KLCI moves
towards the 1,285 points level," Soo said.


"Coming to this level, we expect more profit-taking going forward
and the benchmark index is likely to be capped below 1,285
points," he said.


Tenaga Nasional gained 0.10 ringgit to 11.60.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.15 percent lower, in line with
regional stocks, on profit taking and selective buying of big-cap
stocks.


Dealers said foreign funds continued flowing into the Thai market
while property stocks rose on strong expectations that a key
interest rate would be cut by the central bank's rate-setting
committee next week.


The composite index lost 1.07 points to 692.47 on turnover of
2.87 billion shares worth 10 billion baht (289 million dollars).


"The index dropped slightly on profit taking ahead of the long
holiday weekend. There was selective buying and selling of big-
cap stocks in energy, banking and telecom stocks," said Adisak
Kammool, a senior stock analyst at KGI Securities.


"Trading volume was considered significant amid political
uncertainties."


The Thai market closes Friday for a public holiday. Trading
resumes Monday.


"Property stocks gained on a widely expected interest rate cut
next week," Adisak added.


The Bank of Thailand's monetary policy committee is set to meet
on April 11, when market strongly expects interest rates to be
cut to 4.00 percent from 4.50 percent.


Bangkok Bank was unchanged at 113.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed down 1.38 percent after the central
bank surprised the market by keeping its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 9.0 percent.


The composite index close down 26.440 points at 1,895.611 on
volume of 2.25 billion shares valued at 3.11 trillion rupiah
(341.75 million dollars).


"I think the market sell-off ... was driven by investor
disappointment over Bank Indonesia's decision to keep its key
policy rate unchanged," Kuo Capital analyst Edwin Sinaga said.


Most analysts had expected a further 25 basis points cut.


Sinaga said today's correction was healthy given the market's
strong rally in recent days.


He expects the main index to trade within a range of 1,850-1,950
points next week.


Telkom fell 100 rupiah to 10,100.


MANILA: Closed.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed little changed in directionless
trade ahead of the long Easter holiday.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 3.27 points to 4,184.70 on light
turnover worth 91.38 million dollars (65.8 million US).


"It's relatively quiet but there's still a few stocks holding and
the others are just drifting a wee bit," said Stephen Wright of
ASB Securities.


"There's nothing really driving it either way," Wright added.


Top stock Telecom fell three cents to 4.80 dollars after the
government released a consultation document on plans to force the
company to split into three operating arms to boost competition.


The government said the move would ensure cheaper and faster
broadband services but gave no indication how that would occur.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed 0.54 percent higher on fund buying in
metal and banking stocks.


Dealers said mid and small-cap stocks rose as the markets
recovered for the third straight day after the Sensex posted the
sharpest fall in nearly a year on Monday.


The benchmark 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex closed up
69.31 points at 12,856.08.


"Select fund buying improved market sentiment. But this rally
could be short- lived as long-term buying appetite and liquidity
are missing," said Advait Date, dealer at brokerage BHH
Securities.

