

World oil prices rose on Thursday after a massive plunge in US
motor fuel reserves, but gains were capped after Iran freed 15
seized British military personnel, analysts said.


The sailors flew back to London on Thursday, jubilant and
relieved at the dramatic end to their two-week ordeal that had
triggered a tense international standoff with key crude producer
Iran.


In early London trades, the price of Brent North Sea crude for
May delivery added 17 cents to 68.57 dollars in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose four cents to 64.42 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


The US Department of Energy had revealed Wednesday that US
gasoline reserves plummeted by five million barrels last week --
far more than market expectations for a drop of just 300,000
barrels.


"The primary driver at the moment is the data that came out, it
wrong-footed the market," Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris
said.


"The fact it was so different from market expectations was hugely
relevant coming ahead of the US driving season," Harris said.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched before the driving
season, which starts next month, when many Americans hit the
roads for their summer holidays.


Crude futures had hit a seven-month peak of 69.58 dollars per
barrel in London on Monday as the crisis with Iran, which is the
world's fourth biggest oil producer, sparked fears that the
Islamic republic could disrupt exports.


However, prices tumbled as low as 66.93 in London and 63.56 in
New York on Wednesday after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
defused the crisis by pardoning the 15 sailors and marines as a
"gift" to the British people.


"Prices have eased due to the definite, peaceful resolution of
the row between Britain and Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"But the market is still supported by enough fundamental factors
to keep prices from sliding too far down, so the easing has been
rather modest."


Among the factors supporting higher prices was a sharper-than-
expected fall in US gasoline or petrol inventories, recent US
refinery outages and lingering concerns over Iran's nuclear
programme, he added.


The sailor crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations
with the West, with the United States refusing to rule out
military action over Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


Tehran has said its nuclear research is for peaceful purposes,
not a cover to build an atomic bomb as suspected by Western
powers.

