

Campaigning in East Timor's first post-independence presidential
election drew to a close Thursday as Prime Minister Jose Ramos-
Horta appealed for a peaceful ballot and said he was prepared to
work with whoever wins.


Ramos-Horta is considered a strong contender in Monday's
election, along with the powerful Fretilin party chairman,
Fransisco Guterres, and Fernando "Lasama" De Araujo, who chairs
the opposition Democrat Party.


"No matter what happens on April 9, whether I am elected
president or not, the country will win," Ramos-Horta said in a
statement on his website.


"If they elect someone else they can rest assured that I will
stand behind the newly elected president, no matter who he or she
might be, to make sure that he or she will have all the help
needed to stabilise the country and move the country forward."


His statement also quoted a member of the "Fretilin reform group"
as saying Fretilin had "disgraced our nation."


Fretilin led East Timor's struggle for independence from
Indonesian occupiers and is the largest party in parliament.


Ramos-Horta replaced the Fretilin prime minister Mari Alkatiri
last year after deadly unrest that exposed tensions between
Alkatiri and President Xanana Gusmao, a close associate of Ramos-
Horta.


The two-week election campaign officially ends on Good Friday but
Ramos-Horta held his final rally Wednesday night after violence
that prompted him to call for calm.


"We never win through threats, coercion and the use of force," he
said. "So let's trust more in the power of our ideas and
conviction than in rocks, in machetes and guns. They lead us
nowhere. They create only a cycle of hatred, of revenge and
violence."


His appeal came a day after United Nations police fired warning
shots in response to unrest near the Australian embassy in the
capital, Dili.


And five people were injured in a separate incident involving
supporters of rival candidates, UN police said.


Atul Khare, head of the UN mission in East Timor, also urged an
end to unrest but said most campaign events had been peaceful and
he had been "quite impressed."


"One hundred and twenty-eight rallies and campaign events were
held and I am happy that only 15 of them, which is a little over
10 percent, were marred by incidents of reported violence," he
said.


Last year at least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced by
violence that led to the dispatch of Australian-led international
peacekeepers to stabilise the former Portuguese colony.


East Timor is a devoutly Roman Catholic country and Ramos-Horta
called for Good Friday to be "a day of peace and reflection."


Eight candidates are vying to replace Gusmao, who is not seeking
re-election.


More than 522,000 people are registered to vote.


Finn Reske-Nielsen, deputy head of the UN mission in East Timor,
said four helicopters will be used to reach distant areas and
those with no road access. He said 400 porters and 90 horses will
also help in the logistical effort.


Monday's vote is the first for president since the impoverished
country achieved independence in 2002 after 24 years of
Indonesian occupation and a period of UN stewardship.


There will be more than 700 polling stations, monitored by 200
East Timorese observers and 232 from abroad, Reske-Nielsen told
reporters.

