

New Al-Qaeda leaders appear to be emerging in Pakistan near the
Afghan border, casting doubt on the idea of a sustained weakening
of the global terrorist network, US experts say.


"There is a sense that Al-Qaeda is reconstituting sort of high-
level operational leadership in Pakistan, particularly in the
area near Afghanistan, certainly one of the best places for them
because there is little (Pakistani) government there," John
Lumpkin, senior fellow at Globalsecurity.org, said in an
interview with AFP.


According to an article this week in The New York Times, citing
US intelligence and counter-terrorism authorities who spoke on
condition of anonymity, the new Al-Qaeda leaders have grown more
important after the death or capture of the members of the
network who had formed Al-Qaeda before the September 11, 2001
attacks on the US.


"There are a number of new players who have advanced through the
ranks as a result of the death or capture of key Al-Qaeda senior-
level managers," such as September 11 mastermind Khaled Sheikh
Mohammed and the Indonesian suspect Hambali, Bruce Hoffman, a
professor at Georgetown University, recently told the US House of
Representatives Armed Services subcommittee on terrorism.


Both Mohammed and Hambali are among the "war on terror" suspects
being held at the US naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


The New York Times said the emergence of these new Al-Qaeda
leaders had surprised the US intelligence authorities, who became
aware of them through communications intercepted in Pakistani
tribal areas and interrogations of suspects accused of trying to
blow up commercial aircraft between London and the United States
last year.


The US intelligence community also concluded that an Egyptian
paramilitary commander, Abu Ayyub al-Masri, a veteran of wars in
Afghanistan, had orchestrated that attack.


According to the Times, other names are also surfacing, such as
Khalid Habib, a Moroccan, and Abdul Hadi al-Iraqi, a Kurd who
served in Saddam Hussein's army.


This new crop of leaders is believed to be mainly in their 30s,
with years of combat experience in Afghanistan and Chechnya.
Pakistanis and North Africans figure strongly among them,
compared with the previous leadership which was mostly Egyptian.


According to Lumpkin of Globalsecurity.org, the appearance in
recent months of biographies of these people on the "Wanted
Terrorists" list of the US State Department on the website
rewardsforjustice.net shows "that the US government decided that
those guys were growing in importance in the organization."


Nevertheless, he said, it was difficult to know whether the
suspects have been important in Al-Qaeda for a long time "and the
US government has just figured it out or they really are the
rising stars."


In any case, Georgetown University's Hoffman said, the hardcore
group of Al- Qaeda operating along the border between Afghanistan
and Pakistan "continues to exert actual coordination, if not some
direct command and control capability, in terms of commissioning
attacks, directing surveillance and collating reconnaissance,
planning operations, and approving their execution.


That opinion was echoed by Daniel Benjamin, an expert at The
Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank.


"Al-Qaeda's organization appears to be strengthening, with its
leadership based either in the Federal Administered Areas of
Pakistan on the Afghanistan border, or elsewhere in Pakistan," he
told the House subcommittee hearing.


Benjamin said Pakistan's tribal areas had become "a sanctuary"
for Al-Qaeda which will "continue its work re-networking many of
the disparate units in the jihadist world."

