

After a storm of angry charges, propaganda and bellicose
rhetoric, it seems quiet diplomacy solved Britain's stand-off
with Iran, leaving both sides able to claim victory, commentators
said Thursday


The 15 British Royal Navy personnel were flown back to London
from Tehran on Thursday after nearly two weeks of bitter
wrangling between the two capitals.


Now British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad are left to assess who came out best from the
spat and what turned events towards a solution.


British newspapers said for all the positioning, it was direct
talks Tuesday between Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Nigel
Sheinwald and Iran's top security official Ali Larijani that
broke the deadlock.


"The best lesson to take away from this affair was how rapidly it
was resolved once empowered officials on both sides talked
directly," the Financial Times newspaper said.


Officially, Blair stated Wednesday that there had been no
negotiations to secure the release.


But the press suspected a bit of back-stage horse-trading
concerning Iranians held in Iraq.


The release Tuesday of an Iranian diplomat kidnapped two months
ago in Baghdad, and the promise of consular access to five
Iranian officials seized by US forces in Iraq in January could
have been enough to convince Iran.


Britain initially favoured quiet diplomacy after the sailors were
seized in the northern Gulf on March 23 -- the day before a UN
Security Council vote which, as predicted, slapped further
sanctions on Iran over its disputed nuclear programme.


But Britain's requests for diplomatic progess -- explanations,
consular access to the personnel, demands to know their
whereabouts -- fell on deaf ears as Iran interrogated the sailors
on their "illegal entry" into Iranian waters.


London's patience snapped and on March 28, Britain changed tack,
issuing a military breakdown of its version of events as Blair
said it was time to get tough with Tehran and Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett blasted Iran's actions.


Iran swiftly responded with the first of a string of video
"confessions" of trespassing and letters from the only female
sailor.


Britain took the matter to the UN Security Council, infuriating
Iran while failing to secure the harsh statement it wanted.
However, Britain's European Union partners rallied round.


In recent days, Blair pursued a "two-track," good cop, bad cop
approach of diplomacy backed up with threats of bringing about
Iran's international isolation.


Blair can justifiably claim a win. His primary objective, the
safe return of the Royal Navy personnel, has been achieved. He
has not been forced into apologising, and Britain's version of
events has not been convincingly proven false by Iran.


The stakes were high for Blair personally. He is desperate to
avoid his legacy being overshadowed by the war in Iraq when he
steps down by September, and the permanent detention of 15 young
British sailors patrolling Iraqi waters would have dealt an
untimely blow.


Throughout the crisis, Blair reiterated that Iran had nothing to
gain from keeping the sailors detained.


But Ahmedinejad scored a propaganda coup by his shock
announcement that the sailors would be freed as a "gift."


Television footage showed the smiling sailors, clad in new suits,
thanking the president for their release and Iran's hospitality.


Perhaps with an eye on Iran's stand-off with the West over its
nuclear programme, Iran has shown it will flex its military
muscles against Western forces in the Gulf and the surge in oil
prices was a taster of what could happen if Iran is attacked.

