

US president-to-be John F. Kennedy discovered just how isolated
Gizo was when he was shipwrecked near here during World War II.


More than six decades later, aid workers are learning the same
lesson as they try to rush relief to the tsunami-stricken outpost
of the Solomon Islands.


Although disaster plans swung into action soon after a tsunami
and earthquake hit Monday, it was more than three days later that
significant supplies from the international relief effort began
reaching Gizo.


Outlying islands in the islands' western province are still
waiting.


Western Province disaster management committee chairman Arnold
Moveni said the first stages of the disaster relief effort had
been difficult but that the operation was now coming together.


"Many of our staff were also affected in the first days. They
lost their homes and we had very few staff," he told AFP.


"We had to send people in canoes to the outlying communities to
see how they were affected. Now we're getting help from our
international friends and we're coordinating things on the ground
here in Gizo," he said.


It was a few kilometres from Gizo that Kennedy, then a young
naval officer, was stranded after a Japanese destroyer rammed his
torpedo boat PT-109 in 1943. It took six days for rescuers to
reach him and his surviving crew members.


The destructive havoc wrought by the disaster means it has taken
almost as long for international relief to reach Gizo, as the
seismic pounding endured by the region stalled the normally well-
oiled machinery operated by aid agencies.


The airport was swamped and unusable, landslips and jagged
earthquake fissures cut the island's roads, while Gizo harbour's
jetties were washed out to sea along with much of the island's
fishing fleet.


The disaster rendered a community already remote from the outside
world almost impossible to reach.


For those without a helicopter, a fibreglass canoe to navigate
the reef-fringed channels once taken by Kennedy's patrol boat was
the only way to reach Gizo in the days immediately after the
disaster.


The three-hour trip from neighbouring Munda involved dodging
half-submerged logs and oil drums swept into the ocean by the
tsunami, with a guard at the vessels prow warning "tippee,
tippee" if a piece of flotsam came too close in the dark.


Conditions were no better once passengers had set foot on the
island after berthing at a cracked concrete block deemed stable
enough to act as a temporary wharf.


Fallen trees and landslides blocked roads as the island lacked
heavy equipment to shift them, and cracks in the unsealed
surfaces widened as dozens of aftershocks hit.


Many of the worst-hit areas, such as the village of Titiana,
remain cut off, and the only way to reach them was by trekking
down twisting jungle tracks.


Village elder Otema said relief supplies at the camp where
Titiana's population is sheltering were irregular, and he
criticised officials in Honiara for their efforts after the
disaster.


"We had no food arrive last night," he said.


"So far I've seen very little government involvement in the aid.
The French army has arrived to help us but I don't see any
Solomons soldiers," he said, referring to a French military
aircraft that arrived Thursday.


A New Zealand army soldier who declined to be named said the
reopening of Gizo airport would ease the logjam in supplies,
which had been flown to Munda then ferried across to Gizo early
Thursday.


"With the airport, you'll start to see we'll be able to get
supplies out to people much quicker," he told AFP.

