

Fifteen British sailors freed by Iran were flying home to London
on Thursday, jubilant and relieved at the dramatic end to their
two-week ordeal that had triggered a tense international
standoff.


After being showered with traditional Iranian gifts, the group
took off from Tehran on a British Airways flight 14 days after
they were seized at gunpoint in the northern Gulf accused of
violating Iranian territorial waters.


Their departure wrapped up a rapid succession of events that
began when President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday abruptly
deflated the escalating diplomatic crisis by pardoning them as a
"gift" to the British people.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said one
of the commanders, Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state
television.


The 15 were delivered to the airport in a motorcade escorted by
Iran's Revolutionary Guards and ushered into a VIP building amid
high secrecy and security where British ambassador Geoffrey Adams
saw them off.


Their flight is due to touch down around midday (1100 GMT) at
London's Heathrown airport and they will be whisked off to a
Royal Marines base for a debriefing.


Iranian television showed the sailors celebrating their release
on Wednesday, shaking hands, laughing and embracing, but with
only water to toast the end of their ordeal while the champagne
corks popped at home.


Faye Turney -- the only woman -- waved to the camera and said
"Teshakkor" -- "thank you" in Persian and said "(I) apologise for
our actions."


In typically theatrical style, the hardline Ahmadinejad announced
their release at a press conference on Wednesday which had
largely been devoted to attacks on the West.


"Although Iran has the right to prosecute them by following the
model of the prophet the 15 people were pardoned and their
freedom given as a gift to the British people," declared
Ahmadinejad, who was later seen chatting with the former
prisoners in their first moments of freedom.


His announcement was welcomed by Britain and governments across
the world as well as relatives of the captives, some of whom had
been paraded on state television "confessing" to trespassing in
Iranian waters.


The eight sailors and seven marines were seized at gunpoint while
patrolling the northern Gulf on March 23 and Iran had long
insisted the key to ending the crisis was a British admission
they had violated its territorial waters.


The standoff had further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's controversial nuclear programme, and had
sent jitters through world oil and financial markets.


Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed their release and thanked "our
friends and allies in the region who played their part" amid
reports Syria and Qatar helped bring about a peaceful resolution.


He said Britain, which took the issue to the UN Security Council
last week, had taken a "firm but calm" approach, "not negotiating
but not confronting either".


Their release followed days of a propaganda war played out in the
media but also behind-the scenes diplomacy, including key talks
between top security official Ali Larijani and Blair's chief
foreign policy advisor on Tuesday.


In London, the press said their liberation was a victory for old-
fashioned diplomacy, but also questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war," said The
Independent.


Iran's press boasted that Tehran had won a commitment from
Britain for their freedom, a reference to Ahmadinejad's claim --
not confirmed by London -- that the British government had
promised in a letter not to repeat such incidents.


"The message of freedom, the humiliation of the powers," said
Jaam-Jam, the newspaper of Iran's state broadcaster.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters in line with a UN mandate,
but Iran says the sailors' Global Positioning System (GPS)
devices show they intruded on Iranian waters.


And Ahmadinejad -- savouring his moment in the international
spotlight -- still lashed out at Britain over its handling of the
crisis and decorated a Revolutionary Guards commander who had
seized the Britons.


US President George W. Bush welcomed the release of the Britons
but Washington was at pains to deny any link to reports that five
Iranians captured by US forces in Iraq in January would be
granted their first consular access.


The crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations with the
West, with the United States refusing to rule out military action
over its nuclear drive and the United Nations imposing tough new
sanctions.


Oil prices had surged to near seven month highs above 69 dollars
over the standoff and were trading just below that level in
London trading.


As the former captives left Tehran armed with gifts of pistachio
nuts and other traditional items, and the men in new, slightly
ill-fitting suits, their relatives at home erupted with joy.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.

