

The shock release of the British sailors shows Iran is willing to
consider pragmatism over radicalism and steer clear of an all-out
confrontation with the West, analysts said Thursday.


It remains to be seen what impact the release of the sailors will
have on the much longer running crisis of Iran's nuclear
standoff, but analysts said it creates hope that a deal can still
be reached despite months of stalemate.


"It shows Iran's pragmatism," said analyst Mohammed Sadeq al-
Husseini, who is close to former president Mohammad Khatami.


"It shows that Iran does not seek confrontation with the West and
is also a wise step towards a peaceful solution for the most
critical issue of the Middle East region, which is the Iranian
nuclear issue.


"This is a correct, direct and frank signal. And it has a clear
message for Britain and the United States and even for the
Iranians that this is the solution, since the Middle East cannot
bear another conflict," he said.


Iran's arrest of the British sailors on accusations of
trespassing on its waters on March 23 was seen by the West as
further proof of the Islamic republic's radicalism and
intransigence.


But as the crisis went on, the statements from Tehran became
milder with top security official Ali Larijani giving an
interview to British television in which he said the crisis was
eminently resolvable.


And while Tehran showed it is unafraid of sabre-rattling by
capturing the sailors in the first place, in the end they were
released amid smiles after a relatively short two-week period in
detention.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Wednesday
described the release of the sailors as a "start... (which) will
open the door to further cooperation."


"With this action, Iran sent a signal that it is ready to sort
out its issues through diplomatic means," said conservative
analyst Amir Mohebian.


"But at the same time if the path changes from the diplomatic
path to the path of pressure Iran is ready to withstand
pressure."


While President Mahomoud Ahmadinejad announced news of the
release in a typical coup-de-theatre during a press conference,
no such decision is taken without the prior approval of Iran's
supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.


Khamenei, an unswerving revolutionary who nonetheless eschews the
provocative rhetoric of his president, has the last say on all
foreign policy issues in the Islamic republic.


"The release of the sailors is the work of the leader. It was he
who gave Larijani the lead in the talks and took the decision
that needed to be taken," said a Western diplomat in Tehran, who
asked not to be named.


Coming days after the United Nations agreed a second set of
sanctions against Tehran over its nuclear programme, the crisis
came at a perilous time for relations between Tehran and the
West.


Western powers fear Iran is seeking nuclear weapons -- a charge
vehemently denied by Tehran -- and the United States has never
ruled out the option of military action to bring Tehran to heel.


Iran has already shown a degree of pragmatism in some aspects of
the nuclear standoff -- most noticeably by the way it failed to
carry out threats to sever cooperation with the UN nuclear
watchdog after the first sanctions resolution.


Mohebian said Wednesday's dramatic events showed that the
authorities have no qualms of acting in a conciliatory fashion
when the situation requires -- something that could have an
impact on the nuclear crisis.


"The Iranian regime is structured in a way that there is a
substantial room for manoeuvre in decision-making. Although the
situation was grave it is ready to make quick decisions in order
to cut down the tension," said Mohebian.


"This diplomacy can be repeated elsewhere, according to the
political situation" said Mohebian. "Iran is seeking to change
and correct its image worldwide."

