

British telecom giant Vodafone insisted Thursday its 11.1
-billion-dollar acquisition of mobile operator Hutchison Essar
meets Indian foreign investment rules amid reports the deal faces
yet more scrutiny.


Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile phone company, said it was
directly buying only 52 percent of Hutchison Essar while options
would give it another 15 percent, still leaving its holding
within the 74 perent ceiling.


"We have been maintaining that we have effective 52 percent
control," said Vodafone spokesman V.K. Cherian.


"We have received consistent advice that the structural
arrangements for our holding in Hutch is legal and compliant with
India's law, including the 74 percent foreign ownership cap,"
Cherian told AFP.


"We are absolutely confident that the deal will receive
approval."


His statement came as India's law ministry was reported to have
suggested further scrutiny of the deal to see whether it really
does comply with the 74 percent ownership cap for domestic
telecom firms.


Vodafone Group Plc agreed in February to buy Hong Kong-based
Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd's (HTIL) 67
percent controlling interest in India's fourth-largest cellular
player Hutchison Essar.


The deal is central to Vodafone's strategy of seeking new markets
away from the now saturated developed countries but approval has
been dogged by questions about whether it complies with Indian
rules.


HTIL holds 52 percent of Hutchison Essar directly and has an
"economic interest" in another 15 percent held by Asim Ghosh,
Hutchison Essar managing director, and Analjit Singh, chairman of
healthcare group Max India.


The balance of 33 percent is held by Indian steel-to-shipping
conglomerate Essar but two-thirds of its stake is in turn,
controlled through an offshore company for tax reasons,
potentially classifying it as foreign.


The Indian media has reported that Hutchison Telecom stood
guarantor for loans to Ghosh and Singh. If India decides this
reported arrangement made the minority stakes foreign owned, then
the 74 percent limit in Hutchison Essar would be breached.


Both Singh and Ghosh say they are the real owners of the stake
and are not a front for HTIL.


The Foreign Investment Promotion Board has already deferred
clearance of Vodafone's acquisition of Hutchison Essar twice and
has sought additional information on the shareholding structure
of the company.


It has not said when it might make a decision on the deal while
Vodafone has said it expects to complete the purchase in the
second quarter.


Vodafone in a letter to the finance ministry late last month said
"under current Indian telecommunications and FDI regulations, the
options we were purchasing could not be exercised within the
existing shareholder structure if they resulted in a transfer to
us or to another non-resident entity.


"However, given that some of the competing bidders in the auction
process were Indian enterprises, we were aware that unless we
attached adequate value to these options our bid was likely to be
unsuccessful," the company said.


"Obviously we cannot become the real owners (of the 15 percent)
stake unless the matter of the FDI is sorted," said a source
close to the transaction.


"We control it through options and in terms of commercial
transaction we have paid for that (15 percent stake)."


"They (Ghosh and Singh) cannot sell it to anyone else because we
have the options," the source said. "The competition is making
this an issue; Vodafone is only stepping into HTIL's shoes."


Vodafone has said it wants to make Hutchison Essar India's number
one cellular operator by 2010 in the country's fast-growing and
competitive telecoms sector.

