

Fifteen British naval personnel returned home Thursday, overjoyed
after their surprise release by Iran's president ended a two week
diplomatic battle.


Back in uniform -- having changed from the ill-fitting Iranian
suits given to them at the end of their detention -- the eight
sailors and seven marines applauded as their flight from Tehran
landed at London Heathrow airport, Sky television reported.


They got straight off the British Airways jet and onto a military
helicopter waiting to take them for a reunion with their families
and a debriefing at RAF Chivenor military base in Devon,
southwest England.


The 14 men and one woman were on two zodiac boats seized by
Iranian forces in the northern Gulf and accused of illegally
entering Iranian territorial waters. Britain insists they were in
Iraqi waters.


Both sides came out of the dispute claiming at least a moral
victory, with British Prime Minister Tony Blair insisting
Thursday that their release had been obtained "without any deal".


Speaking in Downing Street as the jet bringing the nave personnel
landed, Blair highlighted that their return coincided with the
deaths of four British soldiers in Iraq, which he said showed the
"ugly reality" of terrorism in the region.


"Just as we rejoice at the return of our 15 personnel, so today
we also grieve and mourn for the loss of our soldiers in Basra
who were killed as a result of a terrorist act," he said.


After initially demanding an apology from Britain, Iran's
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced Wednesday that the
military captives would be freed as a "gift" to the British
people.


During a 90-minute press conference broadcast around the world,
Ahmadinejad chided Britain for its "media hype" during the crisis
as well as the United States. He decorated a Revolutionary Guards
commander who seized the Britons.


Britain was infuriated at the way the only woman captive, Faye
Turney, and some of her male colleagues were paraded on Iranian
television and shown making apologies that British ministers said
appeared coerced.


In a statement on Wednesday, Blair said: "Throughout we have
taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not negotiating but not
confronting either."


He added: "To the Iranian people I would simply say this: we bear
you no ill will. On the contrary, we respect Iran as an ancient
civilisation, as a nation with a proud and dignified history.


"And the disagreements that we have with your government we wish
to resolve peacefully through dialogue."


The 15 were again shown on Iranian television before their
departure, celebrating and again apologising.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said
Lieutenant Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state television.


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," he said.


Two of the sailors -- including Turney -- waved to the camera and
said "Teshakkor" or thank you in Persian.


"I feel just relieved, happy to go home, the treatment here has
just been great but it will be nice to get back, get home and see
my family," the married mother-of-one said.


Asked if she had a message for the Iranian people, Turney added:
"Just thank you for letting us go, and apologise for our
actions."


The new footage showed the 15 opening colourful bags containing
traditional gifts before their departure for London.


They were whisked to the airport in a convoy escorted by
Revolutionary Guards and ushered into a VIP building where
British ambassador Geoffrey Adams saw them off.


Friends and relatives of the captured navy personnel spent much
of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


The standoff further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's nuclear programme and sent world oil
prices to a seven month high.


The United States, which has led accusations that Iran is
covertly seeking a nuclear bomb, sided with Britain in expressing
outrage over the sailors' detention.


The release followed a propaganda war played out in the two
countries' media but also behind-the scenes diplomacy, including
talks between top security official Ali Larijani and Blair's
chief foreign policy advisor on Tuesday.


Some reports said Syria and Qatar helped with the release.


The British press said the liberation was a victory for old-
fashioned diplomacy, but also questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war," said The
Independent.


Iran's press boasted that Tehran had won a commitment from
Britain for their freedom, a reference to Ahmadinejad's claim
that the British government had promised in a letter not to let
its military enter Iranian waters.


"The message of freedom, the humiliation of the powers," said
Jaam-Jam, the newspaper of Iran's state broadcaster.

