

Conflict-ridden South Asian nations made little headway in
fighting terrorism or boosting trade at a summit this week
despite repeated calls for action, analysts said Thursday.


The eight-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
(SSARC) ended a two-day summit Wednesday with a declaration that
underscored an "urgent need" to implement ideas, more than two
decades after the bloc was founded.


But there was scant detail about how that would take place.


"There has not been any substantial progress on the two big
issues -- terrorism and trade despite the fact that every SAARC
member is experiencing terrorism of some sort," said security
expert Chitrapu Uday Bhaskar.


"No significant progress has been made this time," he said.


Set up in 1985, SAARC has been criticised for achieving little,
mostly because of tensions between key members India and Pakistan
which have fought three wars, two over the disputed region of
Kashmir.


At the summit, Pakistan's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz stood
firmly behind Islamabad's position that Kashmir was the "key
dispute" and that free trade with India depended on progress on
the issue.


Led by Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, most leaders called
for action against terrorism, but the New Delhi final declaration
did not specify any concrete measures.


The turmoil across most of South Asia blights the best
intentions, analysts say.


Sri Lanka is fighting Tamil rebels and India is battling Islamic
militants in Kashmir. Pakistan and Afghanistan are struggling
with the Taliban, while Bangladesh is under emergency rule. Nepal
has taken tentaive steps to peace after a decade of Maoist
insurgency.


"All these regional problems have a bearing on collective
action," Bhaskar said.


But experts cautioned against writing off the grouping
completely.


Afghanistan was formally included in the bloc at the New Delhi
gathering. Observers from the United States, the European Union,
China, Japan and South Korea also attended the summit for the
first time.


Observer status was granted to Iran for the next summit in the
Maldives in 2008, despite diplomatic howls from Western nations.


"Iran's inclusion is a very big development. It will help Iran,
and it will also help India as Tehran and Kabul would nudge
Pakistan for greater integration into SAARC," said South Asia
expert Sukh Deo Muni.


India's announcement of duty-free access to neighbours other than
Pakistan pleased economists. New Delhi also pleged a more liberal
visa regime as a small but significant step in improving trust.


"As the biggest economy in South Asia, it is only in the fitness
of things that India should take the first step and throw open
its doors to free imports from within the region," The Hindu
newspaper said in an editorial.


"It will put pressure on other countries to take similar steps,"
said Muni, who is from the independent New Delhi think-tank
Observer Research Foundation.


Last year the South Asian Free Trade Agreement came into force,
aiming to create the world's biggest free-trade area. But Indian
and Pakistan are still haggling over details and the volume of
trade remains very low.


Pakistan remains reluctant to grant Most Favoured Nation status
to India.


The rate of growth of trade has however improved in the region
despite the partial failure of the free-trade pact.


"The trade numbers may not be very impressive, but it's unfair to
compare South Asia to trade blocs of advanced countries," Muni
said.

