

Top scientists on Thursday were putting the finishing touches to
a landmark report set to declare that climate change is already
discernible and could wreak devastation to human settlement and
wildlife this century.


Damage to Earth's weather systems from greenhouse-house gases
will change rainfall patterns, punch up the power of storms,
boost the risk of drought, flooding and water stress and
accelerate the existing meltdown of glaciers and erosion of ice
sheets, the report will say.


The prediction by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) is due to be released on Friday, part of its first
review in six years of the evidence for man-made climate change.


With a few exceptions, the news is relentlessly bad for virtually
all of Earth's population, but poor tropical countries -- the
least to blame for the fossil- fuel pollution that drives global
warming -- will be hit worst.


Worsening water shortages in thirsty countries, malnutrition
caused by dessicated fields, property damage from extreme weather
events and the spread of disease by mosquitoes and other vectors
will amount to a punishing bill that is beyond the ability of
vulnerable countries, especially in Africa, to pay.


The effects of climate change mean that the eight Millennium
Development Goals, enshrined by the United Nations in 2000 as a
spur to haul poor countries out of want, are at risk, the panel
will say.


Its members say with "high confidence" -- 80 percent -- that
storms, droughts and floods will intensify, adding to the toll in
human misery.


Biodiversity and natural habitat are in for a hammering.


Even a modest increase in temperatures will bleach many coral
reefs, reduce part of eastern Amazonia to a parched savannah,
thaw swathes of the northern hemisphere's permafrost, change
seasons for plant pollination and animal reproduction. The planet
could be placed on the fast track to a mass die-out.


"Roughly 20-30 percent... of species assessed so far are likely
to be at increasingly high risk of extinction if global mean
temperatures exceed 2-3 C (3.6-5.4 F) above pre-industrial
levels," the scientists are expected to say.


The warnings are spelled out in a "summary for policymakers" that
accompanies a 79-page technical document -- itself a precis of a
1,400-page catalogue of the present and likely future impacts of
climate change.


"By 2080, it is likely that 1.1 to 3.2 billion people will be
experiencing water scarcity," says a draft of the summary,
explaining that the figure depends on world population growth,
energy use and the level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.


By the same date, as many as 600 million may experience hunger
and each year between two and seven million more people will be
hit by coastal flooding.


In the first volume of its report, issued in February, the IPCC
said Earth's temperature had already risen by 0.74 C (1.33 F) in
the past century.


By 2100, it could rise by 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F)
compared to 1980-99 levels, with a likely range of 1.8 C to 4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F).


The report will say that action taken swiftly to reduce present
emissions can reduce or delay many impacts, and the magnitude of
some effects can be eased if countries set in place adaptation
measures, such as buffers to protect coastal populations and
reservoirs to collect water.


These measures are limited by cost, but even the wealthiest
countries will struggle. It gave the examples of Europe's
heatwave in 2003, in which 70,000 people died, and of Hurricane
Katrina, which inflicted economic damage of more than 100 billion
dollars.


"We need to take adaptation very seriously, because we already
need to be doing it," said Lara Hansen, chief scientist at green
group WWF's climate programme.


"People are becoming more and more aware of things like fresh
water and how it costs when you don't have it... (but) adaptation
is the place where we have made the least progress."

