

There is widespread public support for UN-led military
intervention in cases of genocide and other severe human rights
abuses, according to a multinational survey released here
Thursday.


Most respondents believed the UN had the "right" to intervene
while strong majorities in many countries surveyed said the UN
had the "responsibility to authorize the use of force" even when
opposed by the local government.


"It's a loud statement saying that the UN has the responsibility
to deal with these situations and intervene even against the will
of the government," said Steven Kull, editor of Washington-based
WorldPublicOpinion.org, which coordinated the 18-country study.


"It's not just diplomats getting together having idealistic
thoughts. It really does resonate with large parts of the world's
population."


Data from the polls was analyzed by WorldPublicAffairs.org and
the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.


Strong majorities in all countries surveyed believe the United
Nations has the "right to authorize the use of force to protect
people from severe human rights violations such as genocide, even
against the will of their government."


The Chinese public showed the highest level of support, with 76
percent of respondents saying the UN has a "responsibility to
protect people from severe human rights violations such as
genocide, even against the will of their government." Only 13
percent said it does not have the responsibility to do so.


Belief in the UN's responsibility to act was also strong in the
United States (74 percent), the Palestinian territories (69
percent), Armenia (66 percent) and Israel (64 percent), followed
by Poland, France, and India.


The highest percentages holding this view were in France (85
percent), the United States and Israel (each 83 percent),
followed by the Palestinian Territories, South Korea, Mexico,
China, Ukraine and Iran.


The lowest level of support still represented a strong majority:
64 percent of respondents in Russia supported the UN's right to
intervene.


Large numbers of respondents were open to UN intervention in the
conflict- ravaged region of Darfur in western Sudan, but the
survey found many were uninformed about the situation there and
were unwilling to commit their country's troops.


France had the highest level of support for an international
peacekeeping force in Darfur, with 84 percent of respondents
supporting contributing troops to a mission.


The United States also had strong support for intervention, with
83 percent saying the UN had either the right or responsibility
to do so, while 65 percent supported sending US troops to the
region.


The study was conducted in 18 countries -- China, India, the
United States, Indonesia, Russia, France, Thailand, Ukraine,
Poland, Iran, Mexico, South Korea, the Philippines, Australia,
Argentina, Peru, Israel and Armenia -- plus the Palestinian
territories.


These represent roughly 56 percent of the world's population.


The random sample surveys were conducted by telephone and in
person from June 2006 to March 2007, with margins of error
ranging from 1.5 to 4.0 percentage points.

