

Thailand's decision to ban video-sharing website YouTube
highlights a growing crackdown by the junta against political
comment online, media rights groups said on Thursday.


The military-installed government announced Wednesday that it had
banned YouTube after it failed to block a video considered
insulting to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, a revered figure here.


The 44-second clip shows images of the king, crudely altered with
a graphics programme, which flash on the screen to the tune of
the Thai national anthem.


One image shows the monarch under a photograph of feet, which are
considered the lowest part of the body in Buddhism. The image is
hugely offensive in Thailand, a mainly Buddhist country.


The Southeast Asian Press Alliance said that while commentary
about the king is culturally sensitive in Thailand, blocking the
entire site raised serious concerns.


"Thais are now deprived of a popular and accessible medium that
can accommodate alternative and independent voices," it said in a
statement.


"There is a growing spectre of intolerance toward web-based media
as a whole. The Internet is vulnerable in Thailand, and not just
when it comes to material pertaining to the king," it said.


Since the military seized power in a September coup, it has also
blocked political websites linked to ousted premier Thaksin
Shinawatra as well as a university discussion board.


Police are also investigating a website calling on the king to
sack his top adviser, Prem Tinsulanonda, over his alleged role in
masterminding the coup.


Thailand's government has blocked a total of 45,000 websites,
according to the group Freedom Against Censorship Thailand. About
85 percent of them are believed to be pornographic, and many were
banned under Thaksin.


But the group's coordinator, CJ Hinke, said the government also
uses its campaign against pornography to conceal its efforts to
ban political websites, including discussions of the insurgency
in Thailand's south.


"They're using pornography to conceal a hidden political agenda,
because all of the sites, all of the discussions about the south
are being blocked, as well as of course all of the Thaksin
sites," he said.


Assessing the extent of online censorship in Thailand is
difficult because the kingdom has no law explicitly governing
online content, and is not required to reveal which sites it has
blocked.


The decision to ban YouTube received little coverage in Thai
media, which generally avoid reporting anything controversial
about the king, but generated intense debate in online chatrooms.


"It's unacceptable. No Thai wants to see that video. I am still
crying. I am very sorry for what YouTube has given to the world,"
one posting said on the Thai discussion board Pantip.


"If the government cannot delete the clip, does that mean we
can't watch YouTube for the rest of our lives?" another said.


YouTube is owned by Internet giant Google, and has a monthly
audience of more than 70 million viewers. The company did not
immediately respond to email queries for comment, but this is not
its first run-in with censorship.


Turkey blocked access to YouTube last month because a clip was
deemed insulting to the country's founding father. A court
revoked the ban after three days.


Brazil also banned the site over a video showing a supermodel
apparently having sex on a Spanish beach. A court revoked the
ban, and YouTube removed the video at the request of the judge.


The ban in Thailand came a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss man
for 10 years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits
during a drunken spree.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult against
the royal family.

