

Six American and four British soldiers were killed in separate
attacks in Iraq, coalition forces announced on Thursday, as
Britain prepared to transfer security of another province to
local troops.


Amid one of the bloodiest recent 24-hour periods for foreign
troops in Iraq, the US military was also investigating reports
that a Black Hawk helicopter was shot down south of Baghdad in a
notorious Sunni insurgent stronghold.


The four British soldiers, together with a civilian translator
travelling in the same vehicle, were killed outside the southern
city of Basra in a complex roadside bomb, small-arms fire and
rocket-propelled grenade attack.


Another soldier was seriously wounded and undergoing hospital
treatment.


"It is with deep regret that we can confirm that four British
soldiers and a civilian interpreter were killed in a roadside
bomb attack against a Warrior patrol west of Basra this morning,"
said the Ministry of Defence in London.


British Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Stratford-Wright said the patrol
had first come under attack from five gunmen, although that
assault was repelled and at least one attacker hit in a return of
fire.


After leaving the urban area and heading west of Basra, the unit
was hit by a roadside bomb, followed up with small-arms fire and
rocket-propelled grenades, he told AFP by telephone from the
British headquarters in southern Iraq.


"During that attack the five people were killed, all of whom were
in the same vehicle. A further soldier who was in the vehicle is
very seriously wounded," he said.


Although troops had returned fire from the Warrior vehicles, they
could not confirm whether the attackers had been hit.


Thursday attack was the deadliest strike against British forces
in Iraq since four servicemen were killed last November when
their boat patrol was hit by a bomb in the Shatt al-Arab
waterway.


The latest deaths bring to 140 the number of British soldiers
killed in Iraq since the March 2003 invasion of Iraq.


In Baghdad, the US military also announced its share of new
casualties, saying six soldiers had been killed over the past two
days as the rising body count piles up domestic American pressure
for troops to withdraw from Iraq.


Five of the soldiers were killed on Wednesday -- four when
roadside bombs ripped through their patrols in southern Baghdad
and north of the capital.


Two other troops were shot dead by insurgents in eastern parts of
Baghdad over the last two days, bringing the US military's losses
in Iraq since the 2003 invasion to 2,361, based on an AFP tally.


The US military was also left probing reports that one of its
Black Hawk helicopters had crashed after it received ground fire
in the Sunni stronghold town of Latifiyah, 40 kilometres (25
miles) south of Baghdad, a spokesman said.


Nine US helicopters -- including two operated by private security
firms -- have come down in Iraq since January 20, most of them to
hostile fire.


Despite the latest casualties, the British military in preparing
to hand over security of the southern Maysan province to Iraqi
forces later this month.


It will be the fourth out of Iraq's 18 provinces handed over to
Iraqi security control and the third transferred by British-led
troops since July.


"The timetable for our armed forces to receive national
responsibility is accelerating. And this month, multinational
forces will transfer security responsibility to the authorities
in Maysan," Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's office said.


Stratford-Wright also confirmed that troops were working towards
transferring control in Maysan, which shares a border with Iran,
in April.


"That transfer to provincial Iraqi control is projected to be
this month... This is a positive thing. We're pleased the Iraqi
prime minister has made this decision. It's an indication of
further progress in the south," he said.


Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament in February that the
number of British troops would likely drop to 5,000 by the end of
the year, compared to about 7,200 deployed in the country today.

