

A court in Indonesia on Thursday threw out the case against the
editor of the local version of Playboy, who had been charged with
publishing indecent material, on a technicality.


"The panel of judges declares the charges of the prosecutors
cannot be accepted," Judge Efran Basuning said.


The case was thrown out because prosecutors had failed to charge
Erwin Arnada under a particular press law, he explained.


One of the prosecutors in the case -- widely seen as a battle
between press freedom against conservative Islamic mores in
Muslim-majority Indonesia -- said the charges had been well
prepared.


"I feel that the indictment had been prepared in a systematic,
detailed and clear manner," Agung Ardianto said, adding the
prosecution team would discuss its next move.


The adult magazine issued a statement accepting the verdict.


"Playboy Indonesia never has and will never publish nude photos
or other forbidden materials," the statement said.


Hardline Muslim protestors demonstrating at the court in the
capital Jakarta began dispersing after the verdict, chanting "God
is great!". Some had threatened to "declare war" on the magazine
had Arnada been found not guilty.


"We are very disappointed because of the judge's verdict, but
please stay calm and don't be easily provoked," demonstrator
Abdul Khodir told about 100 fellow members of a hardline group.


He said he hoped prosecutors would appeal the ruling, as hundreds
of police with water cannon stood at the ready near the court.


Playboy's debut issue in April last year featured several models
on its cover and inside pages showing ample cleavage and long
legs -- but nothing more explicit.


Racier men's magazines, newspapers and websites are available in
the country.


Playboy moved its Indonesian headquarters to the predominantly
Hindu resort island of Bali after protests by Muslim hardliners
and attacks on its offices in Jakarta.


Indonesians practice a very tolerant form of Islam, but religious
leaders have complained that the magazine is a corrupting
influence on society.

