

A worried Israel has stalled a US plan to sell advanced weaponry,
including satellite-guided arms, to Saudi Arabia, the New York
Times reported Thursday.


The Times said on its website that Israeli officials, including
former defense minister Shaul Mofaz, have strongly lobbied
Washington in recent months to block parts of a planned arms
package for the Saudis and unspecified others in the Middle East
that could be worth five billion to 10 billion dollars.


Israel is particularly concerned that the United States will
supply the Saudis with precision-guided air-based weapons that
could erode Israel's military superiority in the region, the
newspaper said, citing unnamed US government sources.


"The Israeli complaints have introduced a new uncertainty into
the (US) administration's plan to beef up Persian Gulf militaries
as a bulwark against Iran and as a demonstration that, no matter
what happens in Iraq, Washington remains committed to the Sunni
Arab governments around the region," the Times said.


Israel worries both that closer relations envisioned between
Washington and Israel on one side and Riyadh on the other might
never happen; and that the Saudi regime could give way by
revolution to an Islamic fundamentalist government, it said.


The Times said the package of arms for Saudi Arabia and other
Gulf countries provisionally includes tanks, warships and
advanced air defense systems, and if everything discussed is
approved, the value could run from five billion to 10 billion
dollars, according to an unnamed US defense industry executive.


But Israel is concerned about the idea behind the sale, that
Washington wants to build solidarity with Sunni Muslim countries
-- of which Saudi Arabia is the leader -- to counter the rising
power of rival Shiite Muslim Iran and its allies in Iraq.


Israel fears the pro-Washington Saudi royal government might be
endangered itself, the Times reported.


"The Israelis believe the government of Saudi Arabia is under a
great deal of pressure," former Pentagon official David Schenker
to the paper.


"Osama bin Laden would like to change the Saudi government to
what he considers a real Islamist government. So Israel doesn't
want them to have this heightened military capability," said
Schenker, now a senior fellow on Arab politics at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy.

