

More than 70 people were injured on Thursday when a train
carrying hundreds of rush-hour commuters hit the rail buffer of a
Paris station, firefighters said.


The driver was held for questioning by police after the nine-
carriage train carrying 600 passengers struck the buffer as it
pulled into the Gare de l'Est station, in eastern Paris.


Roger, a 58-year-old commuter, said the train arrived at the
station 15 minutes late and that many hurried passengers were
standing up, ready to step off, when they were thrown to the
floor by the impact.


"I was dozing... and then there was a sudden jolt," he told AFP.
"A woman in front of me fell and hurt her knee. She was bleeding
through her trousers."


A doctor with the Paris firefighters' service said 71 people were
injured, 58 of whom were taken to hospitals around the capital.


Doctor Henri Lehot of the Paris firefighting brigade said there
were cracked ribs, knee injuries, broken noses and sprains.  Most
of the injured who required hospital care should be able to
return home quickly, he said.


Paris police chief Pierre Mutz went to the Gare de L'Est to
oversee an emergency operation in which 115 firefighters and
rescue officials were dispatched to the station.


The director of the regional train service from the state-owned
SNCF company, Thierry Mignauw, told a news conference that the
driver "was in police hands" and that an investigation was under
way into the cause of the accident.


The regional train travelling from Chateau-Thierry, east of
Paris, hit the buffer on track 21 at a speed of about five to
seven kilometres per hour (three to 4.5 miles per hour),
according to Mignauw.


Commuter Roger told AFP that an angry mob of passengers stepped
off the train, approached the driver's compartment and were
"bashing the window as if they wanted to lynch him."


"The investigation will determine whether there was a problem
with the brake system," said Mignauw, adding that the driver had
not alerted SNCF of any technical problem before the accident.


Mignauw said that when the train slows down to a speed of under
10 kilometres per hour, "the accuracy of the stop is determined
by the driver."


Transport Minister Dominique Perben ordered a separate probe and
sent two experts from the ministry's bureau of investigation into
accidents to the station.


A security cordon was thrown up around the platform and
surrounding area, while the damaged buffer could be seen broken
in several pieces.


The accident caused disruption and delays for other suburban rail
services to the station, a major hub for trains from the eastern
outskirts of Paris.


A SNCF spokesman initially dismissed the accident as minor,
saying that some passengers had suffered "a few bruises".


"It's not an accident, but an incident, which happens from time
to time," said the spokesman, adding that the train had "hit the
buffer a bit roughly."

