

Hewlett-Packard on Wednesday showed off innovations it said were
at the heart of a plan to become a major player in the multi-
billion dollar computer game market.


HP used a San Francisco art and film studio as the setting to
demonstrate gaming creations that sprang from collaboration with
engineers at VoodooPC, a Canada- based premier computer game
company HP bought in September of 2006.


HP has its sights set on winning computer game business from
rival US computer maker Dell.


"I can assure you that when we start playing in that space, the
gloves are coming off," said Rahul Sood, chief technical officer
of HP global gaming and founder of VoodooPC.


HP said it would begin selling computer game gear later this year
featuring innovations such as mobile technologies that can
organize and enhance games played outdoors.


HP is targeting mobile, online and computer gaming and does not
intend to go head-to-head with video game consoles made by Sony,
Microsoft or Nintendo, according to Sood.


"All of our customers own consoles as well as personal
computers," Sood told AFP. "The truth is we are looking to build
an ecosystem where all sorts of gamers have access to our
technology."


Technologies demonstrated by HP Labs included a curved computer
display designed to "immerse" gamers in action and a way to
incorporate city streets in games played on the move with
wireless handheld devices.


The company has installed new gaming features into a home coffee
table dubbed "Misto," which features a built-in computer, stereo
speakers and a touch-screen for a top.


People can  play casual digital games such as puzzles, cards and
chess on Misto, or use the screen to display photos, videos or
surf the Internet.


HP's move into the hard-core gaming zone was welcomed by
Microsoft director of Games for Windows Rich Wickham, who was
among those treated to a glimpse of what HP is toying with for
computer games.


HP's plan to work with game hardware and software makers heralded
increased unity and collaboration in the fractured personal
computer game industry, according to Wickham.


Major computer chip makers such as Intel and Advanced Micro
Devices make powerful processors designed for demanding computer
games; computer maker Dell makes an elite system popular with
gamers, and numerous companies craft products to enhance play.


"We are thrilled with the focus HP is bringing to gaming,"
Wickham told AFP. "They have some really cool stuff."


Maximizing the gaming potential of personal computers could
render video game consoles obsolete, said Trion World Network
founder Lars Butler, who was part of a panel discussion with
Wickham and other industry leaders.


"I believe the days of the console are numbered," Butler said.
"There is one more generation of gaming consoles and that is it."


Trion develops and publishes games for broadband computer
systems.


"Our advantage as developers is we know what is coming," said
NVIDIA vice president Roy Taylor, who was among the panelists.


"And what is coming is far ahead of the console. You will see a
huge difference between what you can get on a PC (personal
computer) and a console."


HP Gaming general manager Philip McKinney confided during an
evening of hands-on demonstrations that HP Labs has given Voodoo
free rein to use its M-Scape mobile gaming and other development
to put new products on the market this year.


"Stay tuned. It's going to be a good year," McKinney said
smiling. "This is just a peek behind the curtain."


The worldwide computer game market is estimated at more than 36
billion dollars by Informa Media Group.


The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) reports that there are
more than 12 million active subscriptions to online games such as
World of Warcraft.


US gamers spent more than 20 billion dollars on gaming software
and hardware in 2005, according to the CEA.

