

Relatives of a Briton held in Pakistan over a plot to bomb
transatlantic jets have begun legal moves to stop alleged plans
to swap him for separatist rebels living in Britain, his lawyers
said Thursday.


Officials say the arrest of Rashid Rauf in Pakistan in August
sparked a worldwide security alert and arrests in Britain amid
fears of a conspiracy to blow up airliners flying from London to
the United States.


"We have learned that the government of Pakistan is negotiating
with the British government for the extradition of Rauf in return
for six wanted Baluch nationalists who are based in the UK," his
lawyer Hashmat Habib told AFP.


Britain's Guardian newspaper reported similar allegations in
March, citing Pakistani and British sources.


Pakistan has been battling an insurgency by tribal rebels in its
gas-rich southwestern province of Baluchistan for several years.


Habib said he had filed a petition with a high court in
Rawalpindi, a garrison city near Islamabad, on behalf of Rauf's
maternal uncle Zahoor Akhtar.


"We have prayed the court to direct the government to share such
a request with us and also bar the government from extraditing
Rashid unless the petition is decided," he said. "We should be
given a chance to defend him."


Habib said the petition also demanded that the government provide
a monthly allowance of rupees 50,000 (900 dollars) to Rauf's
Pakistani wife and their children.


The 25-year-old Rauf faces charges including impersonation,
carrying a fake identity card and fake documents.


In December an anti-terrorism court dropped terror charges
against Rauf but its order was suspended when the provincial
Punjab government appealed to a higher court.


The terror charges said Rauf was in possession of 29 bottles of
hydrogen peroxide which were meant to be used to blow up the
passenger jets.


He denies being linked to the alleged conspiracy.


But Pakistani officials say Rauf was detained under special
terror laws which mean he can be held without charge until August
on the grounds that he was a "key man" in the plot, with links to
Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.

