

Iran's press proudly applauded on Thursday the surprise release
of 15 British sailors, although some dissenting voices emerged
from the reformist camp.


All Iranian newspapers printed front-page pictures of the 14 men
and one woman waving to the cameras at the presidential compound
after their pardon by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


"With a written commitment from Britain and on the threshold of
the prophet of compassion's birthday (Mohammed), Iran pardons the
intruding sailors," the hardline Kayhan said in its headline.


This appeared to be a reference to Ahmadinejad's statement that
the British government vowed in a letter not to repeat such
incidents, something that has not been confirmed by London.


"Iran and the West smile together," said the reformist Etemad
newspaper.


"Through power and compassion, the pardoning of the 15 sailors,"
said the conservative Reselaat newspaper.


"Britain gave guarantees, the military were freed," said Jaam-
Jam, the newspaper of Iran's state broadcaster.


In an editorial titled: "The message of freedom, the humiliation
of the powers", it said: "Their freedom had two clear messages.


"The first showed Iran's might in confronting any aggression and
intrusion. The second message was prevention of international
tension between Iran and the rest of countries."


However a clear dissenting voice emerged in the reformist
Ayandeh-No daily, which asked whether the sailors deserved to be
released and worried their freedom could set a worrying
precedent.


"Is the punishment for spying an apology and if there is no
apology should spying be merited with freedom? Are we going to
have such retreats in the future?"


"Then what would happen to all these slogans?" it asked.


"Iran has repeatedly said that Britain should apologize but
Britain did not do any such thing and Blair even gave Iran a 48
hour ultimatum. We should ask this question of Mr President 'why
such a clear retreat?'"


The reformist Aftab Yazd published an editorial which said:


"Mr President should have added another clause to his release
statement and that was 'we wanted to release them earlier but we
wanted the 48 hours ultimatum of Blair to pass before we released
them."


British Prime Minister had announced on Tuesday that the next 48
hours would be "critical" in the standoff.

