

Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer's murder at the World Cup may have
hastened Greg Chappell's decision to quit as India's coach, elder
brother Ian Chappell said on Thursday.


The younger Chappell had on Wednesday declined to extend his two-
year tenure as India's coach due to "family and personal" reasons
after the national team were knocked out of the ongoing World Cup
in the first round.


"If there was any chance of Greg continuing as coach of India, it
probably disappeared when Bob Woolmer was murdered during the
World Cup," Ian Chappell wrote in the Mumbai-based Mid-day
newspaper.


"Such an ugly incident is sure to focus your concentration on
life's priorities. Greg is probably better off without all the
angst that comes with one of the most demanding jobs in cricket."


Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room in Kingston, Jamaica, on
March 18, a day after Pakistan were defeated by minnows Ireland
to bow out of the tournament.


Jamaican police said Woolmer was strangled to death but have yet
to identify the killers.


The World Cup humiliation caused shock and anger among cricket-
mad fans in India and Pakistan, forcing police in both countries
to tighten security around the players.


Ian Chappell, who, like Greg, is a former Australian captain,
said his brother must have thought hard before deciding not to
seek an extension to his 300,000-dollar-a-year job with India.


"I doubt Greg will feel completely fulfilled," wrote Ian. "A
perfectionist, even one who has mellowed, is never going to be
happy with under-achieving on his expectations.


"Greg's only rationale for playing cricket was to win. His
approach in his latest role would have been exactly the same --
to do everything he could to help India win.


"Greg is a respectful person but there is no point in trying to
be like an Indian when you've been employed because of your
knowledge and experience as an Australian cricketer."


Greg Chappell will sumbit his report on the World Cup debacle to
Indian cricket chiefs on Friday, the first day of a two-day
meeting to take stock of the team's poor performance in the
Caribbean.


India, who are due to tour Bangladesh in May, have yet to name
Chappell's successor.

