

Italian police baton charged Manchester United fans during their
Champions League quarter final here and 18 English fans were
reported injured in clashes.


United and AS Roma fans were involved in running battles outside
the Rome Olympic Stadium before the game late Wednesday and
police charged United fans after new disturbances erupted
following Roma's first goal in their 2-1 victory.


One English fan was in serious condition after being stabbed in
the back of the neck, the ANSA news agency reported.


Television images showed one English supporter with blood pouring
from a head wound as he was carried away by other fans.


ANSA said 18 fans were taken to Rome's San Giacomo hospital.


Manchester United had warned its travelling supporters to be wary
of certain parts of the Italian capital because of the risk of
trouble from Roma followers.


But media reports said there were fights between fans as they
made their way to the key match and more troubles erupted inside.


ANSA said around 300 English fans, many who were under the
influence of alcohol, were involved in street fights. Riot police
brought the two sides under control.


Trouble inside the stadium blew up after Rodrigo Taddei's goal
put Roma ahead.


Roma supporters ran towards the fencing separating them from
United counterparts and pelted them with plastic drink bottles,
many of them full.


United fans launched similar tactics and police baton-charged the
United supporters, leaving at least one English fan stunned and
nursing a bloodied head.


Rome police chief Achille Serra ordered that no alcohol be sold
to fans in the Italian capital from midday Wednesday until 3:00am
on Thursday.


The troubles came only a day after the Italian government passed
new laws in a bid to stamp out mounting football hooliganism in
recent months.


Strict new security measures were introduced shortly after a
policeman was killed when Catania fans went on the rampage during
their derby match against Sicilian rivals Palermo in February.


The authorities briefly closed some Italian stadiums after the
death while security measures were improved.


The government clampdown demanded clubs took more responsibilty
for security, including more closed-circuit television cameras at
stadiums, named tickets, electronic turnstiles, adequate
stewarding, and crowd filtering areas outside grounds.


These measures, known as a 'Decreto' were only temporary and had
to be approved in parliament within 50 days for them to become
law.


On Tuesday the law was approved with a unanimous vote.


Any fan carrying a banner that incites violence or contains
offensive language faces arrest.

