

Adolf Hitler remains on a list of honorary citizens of Gdansk
published by the Polish port city's council, but the Nazi
leader's title was revoked at the end of World War II,
authorities said Thursday.


Under the headline "Honorary Citizen Hitler", the Rzeczpospolita
daily had reported Thursday that a handful of formerly-German
cities in Poland had failed to wipe the Fuehrer from their books.


But Gdansk city spokesman Karol Polejowski said that keeping
Hitler's name on the city's www.gdansk.pl website meant nothing
of the sort.


"Adolf Hitler is no longer an honorary citizen," Polejowski told
AFP.


"The website simply mentions the facts related to different
periods of history," he said.


The website's list stretches back to 1832. Besides the Nazi
leader it also includes his sidekick Hermann Goering, plus a
string of communist-era luminaries.


Among the individuals who have been honoured since the collapse
of the Soviet bloc in 1989 are former US presidents Ronald Reagan
and George Bush, British ex- prime minister Margaret Thatcher,
and Lech Walesa, the Gdansk shipyard worker who led the anti-
communist Solidarity movement in the 1980s and was elected
president of Poland in 1990.


Hitler was made an honorary citizen to mark his 50th birthday on
April 20, 1939 by the Nazi-run local council of what was then the
Free City of Danzig.


The Baltic Sea port had been part of the German Empire until the
end of World War I, and was subsequently controlled by the League
of Nations, before being taken over formally by the Third Reich
after the invasion of Poland in September 1939.


Gdansk was awarded to Poland by the Soviet Union, Britain and the
United States at the end of World War II. Its majority German
population was expelled.


Polejowski said that a 1945 decree by the new Polish government
had voided all decisions made by the city's former authorities.


Moreover, the Gdansk city council confirmed in 1990 that Nazi or
communist officials could not be considered honorary citizens, he
explained.


Polish media have been scouring their cities' records since the
northern German town of Bad Doberan on Monday stripped Hitler of
his honorary citizenship just over two months before it is to
host the next G8 summit.


Local officials there said the decision was a political gesture
ahead of the summit, since they believed that by law the honour
had fallen away on the Nazi dictator's death. Hitler committed
suicide in Berlin on April 30, 1945.


Among the Polish cities which reportedly still have Hitler on
their list are the northwestern port of Szczecin, formerly
Stettin, and the southwestern town of Wroclaw, formerly Breslau.

