

Online weblogs mushroomed to more than 72 million this year, with
Japanese now the most prolific posters to the popular online
personal journal web pages, an Internet research company said on
Thursday.


The popular online personal journal technology, which exploded on
the web only about five years ago, has now spread around the
world, with Japanese the biggest bloggers, ahead of English-
language bloggers and the rapidly-growing Chinese blogging
community according to Technorati, which tracks blog content.


And in politically repressed countries, blogging has also
exploded, with Iran's Farsi language also scoring high and rising
in blogging rankings, the San Francisco company said.


Technorati, in its just-released "State of the Live Web" report,
said the number of blogs around the world surged from eight
million in March 2005 to more than 72 million last month.


New weblogs are being created at a rate of 120,000 daily, or
three every two seconds, as compared to 25,000 new weblogs
launching on the Internet daily in March of 2005, Technorati
said.


But the rate at which the "blogosphere" doubles in size has
slowed from once every six months to once a year, said David
Sifry, Technorati's founder.


Sifry acknowledged there were probable undercounts in some
countries, such as France, where users of the popular Skyblog
platform do not make it into the company's database.


Ethan Zuckerman and Rebecca MacKinnon, co-founders of
international blog aggregator Global Voices Online, said there
are other reasons Sifry's firm could be greatly undercounting the
number of blogs world-wide.


Differences in weblog tools and techniques around the world make
it tough to accurately track growth of the blogosphere as it
factionalizes based on cultures, they said.


They cautioned that while the Technorati statistics were
valuable, to index blogs the company relies on "ping" signals
from weblog creation tools not commonly used in countries such as
China.


Hong Kong-based MacKinnon said there are an estimated 40 million
weblogs in China alone.


"We've seen an explosion in non-English systems over the past
year," she told AFP.


"Not to belittle Technorati and the very impressive work they've
done, but perhaps it has become impossible to try and count all
blogs in the world."


Even so, Zuckerman acknowledged the growth slowdown for one of
the biggest things to hit the Internet in the past five years.


"A curve can't engage in doubling behavior forever. People who
hadn't heard of blogging have tried it and there is a blush of
newness that has worn off," he said.


Technorati's report indicated that 37 percent of all weblog
postings are in Japanese, making it the most-used language.


English ranked second and Chinese third followed by a series of
European languages, by Technorati's measure.


Sifry noted that Farsi has become the 10th most popular language
for weblog postings.


"A lot of people in Farsi-speaking countries, Iran included, are
blogging as an outlet," Sifry told AFP.


"I think blogging is really powerful where there are highly-
educated people under repressive regimes."


The Arabic "blogosphere" has gone from almost non-existent in
early 2005 to "a very large space," according to MacKinnon.


Access and affordability of technology and the potential to
anonymously express opinions were cited as reasons for increases
in blogging.


"Worldwide, many people have things to say," MacKinnon said. "For
nothing, you can use this publishing platform to communicate with
whomever you want."


The number of daily blog postings, entries put online, counted by
Technorati climbed from 500,000 in March of 2005 to 1.4 million,
or 58,000 hourly, in March of this year.


The blogosphere is factionalizing based on culture, countries or
interests, according to Zuckerman and MacKinnon.


"Blogging has expanded too much to be able to talk about a single
global blogosphere and assign it uniform characteristics,"
MacKinnon said.


"There is an Indonesia blogosphere, a Bangladesh
blogosphere...Russian, whatever."


To help surfers navigate the online flood of posted commentary,
pictures and video, bloggers are increasingly "tagging" content
with descriptive words for sorting.


"Tagging is becoming the lingua franca of the live web," Sifry
said. "The web itself is becoming more self-organizing. People
are teaching the machine what things mean."


"These are brand new tags, words not used before," Sifry said.
"Bloggers are making up words or using word combinations. It is
very interesting to see what people are doing in order to
disambiguate what is going on."

