

Eurotunnel, the troubled operator of the Channel Tunnel, on
Thursday urged shareholders to accept a rescue plan as it seeks
to escape possible liquidation.


Eurotunnel's board recommended that shareholders accept a share
swap under which they would receive one share in the entity's new
holding company, Groupe Eurotunnel (GET) plus one share option,
for each old Eurotunnel share tendered.


The share swap offer will run from April 10 to May 15 and the
acceptance threshold for the offer to go forward is 60 percent of
outstanding Eurotunnel shares.


"The board wishes to point out that if the offer fails,
Eurotunnel could not continue as a going concern and would in all
likelihood face insolvent liquidation," the statement said.


The tunnel, through which passes the high-speed Eurostar train
that connects London with Brussels and Paris, was nonetheless
expected to remain in operation.


Eurotunnel shares shed 4.65 percent to 0.41 euros in late morning
trade on the news on an overall Paris market which lost 0.24
percent on profit-taking.


On Wednesday, the French stock market watchdog AMF approved the
exchange offer, which is aimed at creating GET in place of two
French and British companies that comprise Eurotunnel at present.


In November, holders of the company's 6.3 billion euros (8.4
billion dollars) in bank debt as well as its suppliers voted in
favour of a safeguard plan for Eurotunnel, which was approved by
the Paris Commercial Court in January.


In early March, Eurotunnel reported that it had stemmed losses
last year following a catastrophic 12 months in 2005.


The group said it made a loss of 204 million euros (268 million
dollars) in 2006 compared with a loss of 2.808 billion euros in
2005.


It said operating profit had increased by 42 percent to 326
million euros in 2006 compared with 230 million euros in 2005.


The tunnel was built with private funds from capital markets,
much of it in the form of bonds, largely owing to insistence by
the then British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.


But it ran into several cost overruns owing to technical problems
encountered in tunnelling and increased safety specifications,
and has been through a number of crises.


The vast bulk of the debt is held by financial institutions, but
a large number of small shareholders, mostly in France, bought
shares when the company was floated in 1987.


They have seen their investment shrink to almost nothing and are
highly aggrieved at the course of events over recent years.


This has given the problems at Eurotunnel an added political
dimension in France where the state is traditionally involved
closely in such infrastructure projects.


The shares were launched at 35 francs, equivalent to 5.34 euros,
and reached a high of 128 francs (19.51 euros) in May 1989.

