

Who gets to go to this year's Cannes filmfest? Two weeks before
the world's premier festival announces the line-up of films to
compete for the prestigious Palme d'Or, the movie world is abuzz
with rumours.


Organisers of the festival, taking place from May 16-27, unveil
the 20-odd films selected to compete for the top prize on April
19.


But just as important are the blockbusters that ritually make
their international premieres, out-of-competition, at Cannes.


While the festival's selection committee, headed by artistic
director Thierry Fremaux, will be viewing contenders for the
Palme d'Or up until the last minute in the strictest secrecy, a
number of movies are already being tipped.


US industry journal Daily Variety two weeks ago said Steven
Soderbergh's "Ocean's Thirteen" -- the third instalment of the
Ocean's films -- would make its international premiere at the
60th Cannes festival.


The studio and festival hoped that many of the film's stars,
including Julia Roberts, Catherine Zeta-Jones, George Clooney,
Brad Pitt and Al Pacino, would attend, Variety added.


There are few expectations on the other hand that Francis Ford
Coppola will be at Cannes this year, as his "Youth without Youth"
is not yet ready.


One name on all lips however is "My Blueberry Nights", Hong Kong
director Wong Kar Wai's first movie shot in English. The film,
starring Jude Law and singer Norah Jones, could well win place of
honour by opening the festival, according to some industry
reports.


But others are sceptical that "My Blueberry Nights" will be ready
on time.


Wong Kar Wai, who headed last year's Cannes jury, gave Cannes the
jitters in 2004 when his not-quite-completed "2046" was flown in
behind schedule and screened at the last possible minute.


This year's Cannes jury will be headed by Britain's Stephen
Frears, director of award-winning box-office hit "The Queen".


And topping the list of films rumoured as possible winners of the
Palme, should they be selected, are "Paranoid Park" by American
director Gus Van Sant (already a Palme winner), "The Red Balloon"
by Taiwan's Hou Hsiao Hsien, "Promise me This" by Serbia's Emir
Kusturica, and "Tehilim" by French director Raphael Nadjari.


Movies by the Taiwanese director have been selected to compete
for the top award six times at Cannes, while Oscar-winner Van
Sant scooped the Palme in 2003 for "Elephant" and Kusturica in
1995 for "Underground".


Other films tipped as possible front-runners for the prize are
"Alexandra" by Russia's Alexander Sokurov, "Du Levande" by
Sweden's Roy Andersson and "L'age des Tenebres" by Canadian Denys
Arcand. (There are no English titles available yet for the last
two.)


The latest movie by cult US brothers Ethan and Joel Coen, "No
Country for Old Men", is also tipped as a likely runner for the
award.


And last but not least, South Korea is expected to be selected
for the Palme with one of three entries cited -- Im Kwon-taek's
"Beyond the Years", Kim Ki- duk's "Time" or Lee Chang-Dong with
"Milyang".


Among the favourites from France are Claude Miller's "A Secret",
"Songs of Love" by Christophe Honore and "An Old Mistress" by
Catherine Breillat.

