

Turkey, reacting to a French bill on the World War I massacres of
Armenians, has suspended talks with Gaz de France (GDF) on the
French firm's possible participation in a major pipeline project,
the Anatolia news agency reported Thursday.


Turkey's energy ministry and the state-owned oil and gas company
BOTAS, which is part of the Nabucco consortium building the
pipeline, refused to comment on the report.


The five-company consortium plans to build a 3,300-kilometre
(2,000-mile) conduit that will carry natural gas from the Middle
East and Central Asia to the European Union via Turkey and the
Balkans, bypassing Russia.


The other partners in the venture are Austria's oil and gas group
OMV, Hungary's MOL, Bulgaria's Bulgargaz and Romania's Transgaz.


The consortium had been in contact with GDF for some time as part
of its efforts to find a sixth partner in the six-billion-dollar
(4.5-billion-euro) project, which is expected to become
operational in 2012.


The four other partners approved GDF's participation, but Turkey
has opposed it because of a French draft law that makes it a
jailable offense to deny that Ottoman Turks committed genocide
against Armenians during World War I, Anatolia said.


The bill was adopted by the National Assembly in Paris in October
but must still go before the Senate, then back to the lower house
before becoming law.


Turkey had at the time threatened unspecified measures against
the bill, which it denounced as a "heavy blow" to bilateral ties.


In November, the Turkish army froze military ties with France
over the bill.


Armenians claim up to 1.5 million of their kin perished in
systematic deportations and killings between 1915 and 1917 under
the Ottoman Empire, modern Turkey's predecessor.


Turkey categorically denies claims of genocide and says thousands
of Turks and Armenians were killed in civil strife when Armenians
took up arms for independence in eastern Anatolia and sided with
Russian troops invading the crumbling empire.


Much to Turkey's ire, many countries have recognised the killings
as genocide.

