

Australia and China will jointly develop cleaner-burning coal
technologies and other ways of cutting greenhouse gas emissions,
visiting Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said on Thursday.


Although Australia is the only industrialised country besides the
United States not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, Downer stressed his government's eco-
concern.


He said he wanted the issue to be a focus of September's Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Sydney.


"I think this will be a significant issue during APEC," he said
on the last day of a visit to China.


"Australia is chairing APEC this year and we want climate change,
and environmental issues more broadly, to be a central part of
the APEC agenda."


Noting China's heavy dependence on coal for its energy needs,
Downer said Australia -- one of the world's top coal exporters --
would "work intensively with China on developing clean-coal
technologies."


"It is essential that (China's) coal-fired stations are
substantially cleaner, especially in terms of cleaner emissions,
and clean-coal technology  is going to be the solution," he said.


Australia has rejected the Kyoto Protocol, which requires nations
to cut greenhouse gas emissions.


China, which is expected to overtake the United States as the top
greenhouse gas emitter by 2009 or sooner, has ratified it. But as
a developing country, it is not bound by specific reduction
targets.


Both countries are part of a separate agreement, which also
includes the United States, India, South Korea and Japan, that
calls for less-binding targets. That pact has been criticised by
environmental groups.


Downer, who met with top officials in Beijing including Chinese
Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing, said talks on a bilateral free-
trade agreement were making "steady progress."


"We hope they make even more and significant progress during the
visit of Chinese President Hu Jintao to Australia in September
(for APEC)," he said.


He said on Monday at the start of his visit it was unclear
whether an April 2008 deadline for finalising the pact would be
met.

