

The US ambassador to Vietnam on Thursday called on the communist
one-party state to free its dissidents and open up its political
system, in an editorial the embassy sent to local media.


Ambassador Michael Marine said last week's eight-year jail
sentence for activist priest Father Nguyen Van Ly was "baffling
considering his crime was peacefully speaking out in favor of
political change."


"Today, regrettably, there are an increasing number of
individuals in prison or under detention in Vietnam whose only
crime was the peaceful expression of their views," he wrote in a
commentary sent to newspapers here.


He listed several other prominent dissidents currently being held
-- journalist Nguyen Vu Binh, Hanoi human rights lawyers Nguyen
Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, land rights activist Bui Kim Thanh
and lawyer Le Quoc Quan.


"For the sake of Vietnam's further international integration and
development, its government must release these and other
individuals now," wrote Marine.


He also urged Vietnam to revise or repeal laws in order to
legalise "the peaceful expression of one's views -- even if they
are critical of the state."


Marine also praised Vietnam for its economic growth and recent
accession to the World Trade Organisation.


But he said excitement about Vietnam's economic potential was
being dampened by the "weak rule of law in Vietnam," lagging
regulatory reforms, frail investor protection and "the cancer of
widespread corruption."


"Vietnam aspires to greater international recognition, increased
global integration and the achievement of world-class standards
in everything from business to education, and health to economic
infrastructure," Marine wrote.


"It is in Vietnam's own developmental and national security
interests to ensure that its citizens also have world-class
rights and freedoms."


He urged Vietnam to allow its citizens "greater space to express
ideas" and "ultimately, the right to select their leaders and
representatives."


The US envoy warned that Vietnam will not achieve its full
potential "without strengthening (the) rule of law, tackling
corruption, ensuring the basic rights and freedoms of its
citizens and opening its political system."


Vietnam Foreign Ministry spokesman Le Dung, in a regular press
briefing, praised US-Vietnamese relations and said "we shouldn't
make the differences in some areas influence or cause bad
impacts" on overall bilateral ties.


He said that "in Vietnam no one is arrested or detained for
expressing their political or religious views," speaking through
an official translator.


"Dealing with Nguyen Van Ly and other wrongdoers is to ensure the
rightness and correctness of the rule of state and to maximise
democracy and protect the human rights and the discipline of
Vietnam's laws," he said.


Dung added that Vietnam would send a delegation to Washington
later this year to continue the bilateral human rights dialogue.

