

The battle to control cyberspace in Malaysia intensified Thursday
as a minister said bloggers may be forced to register their names
to avoid unjust claims being posted on the Internet.


Deputy energy, water and communications minister Shaziman Abu
Mansor said his department was considering an option to make
surfers identify themselves so that the government can track
their activities.


"We might follow some other countries who register bloggers as
well," he told AFP. "That's what Singapore is doing as well."


"It's much better if we can have a list of active bloggers ... We
want to know who are the bloggers," he added.


Malaysia's Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and a number of
other ministers have launched attacks on Malaysian bloggers and
Internet surfers in recent months, accusing them of spreading
lies about the government.


Two prominent bloggers, Jeff Ooi and Ahirudin Attan, are
currently being sued for defamation by the government-linked New
Straits Times Press newspaper group in an unprecedented case
decried by rights activists as an attack on free expression.


However, Shaziman denied he was floating the idea, first
mentioned by him in parliament Wednesday, to curb comments
published on the Internet.


"It's nice to have a list of bloggers, whoever they are," he
said.


Ministry officials said there were no firm proposals to register
blogs but that the option was being considered because of
anonymous posts.


"For those bloggers who are anonymous, it's very hard for us to
take action against them if they post on their blog," an
official, who asked not to be named, told AFP.


"Some of the bloggers are anonymous, so they are using their blog
to write wrong information about leaders and all those people who
are in high positions," said the official.


Writing on Wednesday, Ahirudin said politicians, including
Shaziman, did not understand bloggers and were making the attacks
out of fear.


"We have people like Shahziman who think they can bully bloggers
because bloggers are small individuals and make easy pickings,"
he wrote.


Malaysia's media is kept under tight control with laws allowing
the government to revoke or suspend newspapers' publishing
permits -- a power that has been used several times in the last
year.


Blogs have seen an increase in popularity as Malaysians take to
cyberspace to discuss politics and social issues.

