

Fifteen British naval personnel returned home Thursday, overjoyed
after their surprise release by Iran's president as both
countries claimed victory in the two week diplomatic battle.


Having changed back into uniforms from the ill-fitting Iranian
suits given to them at the end of their detention, the eight
sailors and seven marines applauded as their flight from Tehran
landed at London Heathrow airport, Sky television reported.


They got straight off the British Airways jet, lined up for a
quick photograph and then boarded a military helicopter that took
them to a military base in southwest England for a reunion with
their families and a debriefing.


The 14 men and one woman were on two zodiac boats seized by
Iranian forces in the northern Gulf on March 23 and accused of
illegally entering Iranian territorial waters. Britain insists
they were in Iraqi waters.


Both sides came out of the dispute claiming at least a moral
victory, with British Prime Minister Tony Blair insisting
Thursday that their release had been obtained "without any deal".


Speaking in Downing Street as the jet carrying the Britons
landed, Blair highlighted that their return coincided with the
deaths of four British soldiers in Iraq, which he said showed the
"ugly reality" of terrorism in the region.


The 15 were freed "without any deal, without any negotiation,
without any side agreement of any nature whatever," Blair
insisted.


"Just as we rejoice at the return of our 15 personnel, so today
we also grieve and mourn for the loss of our soldiers in Basra
who were killed as a result of a terrorist act," he said.


A top Iranian official said the Islamic state had also "achieved
its objectives" in the crisis.


Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign minister and now advisor to
supreme leader Ali Khamenei, said Britain sent a letter of
apology to Iran the day before President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
announced the release of the 15.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran showed that it will defend its
territorial integrity and has no fear," said Velayati.


"It achieved its objectives in pardoning the British sailors," he
was quoted as saying by state television.


After demanding an apology from Britain, Iran's President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad announced Wednesday that the captives would be freed
as a "gift" to the British people.


During a 90-minute press conference broadcast around the world,
Ahmadinejad chided Britain for its "media hype" during the
crisis. He decorated a Revolutionary Guards commander who seized
the Britons.


Britain was infuriated at the way the only woman captive, Faye
Turney, and some of her male colleagues were paraded on Iranian
television and shown making apologies that British ministers said
appeared coerced.


But in a statement on Wednesday, Blair said: "Throughout we have
taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not negotiating but not
confronting either."


He added: "To the Iranian people I would simply say this: we bear
you no ill will." Blair said Britain wanted to settle any
disagreements with Iran "peacefully through dialogue."


The 15 were again shown on Iranian television before their
departure, celebrating and again apologising.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said
Lieutenant Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state television.


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," he said.


Two of the sailors -- including Turney -- waved to the camera and
said "Teshakkor" or thank you in Persian.


The new footage showed the 15 opening colourful bags containing
traditional gifts before their departure for London.


Friends and relatives of the captured navy personnel spent much
of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


The standoff further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's nuclear programme and sent world oil
prices to a seven month high.


The United States, which has led accusations that Iran is
covertly seeking a nuclear bomb, sided with Britain in expressing
outrage over the sailors' detention.


The release followed a propaganda war played out in the two
countries' media but also behind-the scenes diplomacy, including
talks between top security official Ali Larijani and Blair's
chief foreign policy advisor on Tuesday.


Some reports said Syria and Qatar helped with the release.


The British press said the liberation was a victory for old-
fashioned diplomacy, but also questioned whether Britain had
given up anything in return.


"Jaw-jaw is still far, far better than war-war," said The
Independent.

