

World oil prices rose on Thursday after a dramatic plunge in US
motor fuel reserves, but gains were capped after Iran freed 15
seized British military personnel, analysts said.


In early London trades, the price of Brent North Sea crude for
May delivery added 40 cents to 68.80 dollars in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose 16 cents to 64.56 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


Crude futures had hit a seven-month peak of 69.58 dollars per
barrel in London on Monday as the crisis with Iran, which is the
world's fourth biggest oil producer, sparked fears that the
Islamic republic could disrupt exports.


However, prices tumbled as low as 66.93 in London and 63.56 in
New York on Wednesday after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
defused the crisis by pardoning the 15 sailors and marines as a
"gift" to the British people.


The freed Britons flew home to London on Thursday, jubilant and
relieved at the dramatic end to their two-week ordeal.


"Prices have eased due to the definite, peaceful resolution of
the row between Britain and Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"But the market is still supported by enough fundamental factors
to keep prices from sliding too far down, so the easing has been
rather modest."


Among the factors supporting higher prices were a sharper-than-
expected fall in US gasoline or petrol inventories, recent US
refinery outages and lingering concerns over Iran's nuclear
programme, he added.


Wednesday's weekly report by the US Department of Energy revealed
that gasoline reserves plummeted by five million barrels last
week. That was far more than market expectations for a drop of
just 300,000 barrels.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched ahead of the US
driving season, beginning next month, which sees many Americans
take to the roads for their summer vacations.


The Iran sailor crisis, meanwhile, came at a perilous time for
Iran's relations with the West, with the United States refusing
to rule out military action over Iran's disputed nuclear
programme.


Tehran has said its nuclear research is for peaceful purposes,
not a cover to build an atomic bomb as suspected by Western
powers.

