

Top Iranian security official Ali Larijani, who leads contacts
with the West over Iran's nuclear drive, again showed his
relatively pragmatic streak as he emerged as one of the main
protagonists in the crisis over the captured British sailors.


Larijani, head of Iran's supreme national security council, is a
natural conservative but his moderate and distinctly undramatic
language contrasts starkly with the more volatile rhetoric of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


While it was Ahmadinejad who in typically theatrical style
stunned the world with his sudden announcement that the sailors
were to be released, much of the behind-the-scenes diplomacy has
been carried out by the bearded Larijani.


He started by taking what appeared to be a hardline stance,
blaming Britain's "incorrect attitude" for preventing the
intended release of the sole female sailor detained.


But it was Larijani who then signalled the major turning point in
the row, giving an unprecedented interview to a British
television channel in which he said the crisis could easily be
resolved and there was no need for any trial.


And it was the tall 49-year-old former head of Iranian television
who held the key diplomatic contact in the crisis late Tuesday, a
telephone call with Prime Minister Tony Blair's chief foreign
policy advisor Sir Nigel Sheinwald.


After those talks, Downing Street issued a statement that struck
an unequivocally upbeat tone for the first time in the crisis,
saying Britain favoured talks and Blair believed Iran wanted to
solve the issue swiftly.


Hours later, Ahmadinejad made his dramatic announcement that the
15 sailors had been pardoned as a "gift" to the British people
and would be freed immediately.


While Larijani's change in tone in the interview with Britain's
Channel 4 News was a major turnaround, there could be little
surprise that it was the job of the ex-television chief to
deliver the news.


Larijani was a defeated candidate in the 2005 presidential
election won by Ahmadinejad and was subsequently appointed to
head the security council, a powerful body charged with all
national security issues.


While Ahmadinejad nominally is "president" of the security
council, in reality Larijani receives his orders from supreme
leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei whose confidence he is believed to
enjoy.


Larijani was the official entrusted with carrying out months of
sensitive talks with the EU's foreign policy chief Javier Solana
which nevertheless failed to find a deal to end the nuclear
standoff between Iran and the West.


At a time of great tension between the two sides, it was Larijani
who headed to the Munich security conference earlier this year to
give a keynote and relatively moderate speech on Iran's nuclear
programme.


Yet while Larijani adopts a more pragmatic tone than Ahmadinejad,
he remains a regime insider whose position remains hardline.


Larijani is a the son of a grand Ayatollah and he married the
daughter of Ayatollah Morteza Motahari, a close confidant of
Iran's revolutionary founder Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.


His younger brother, Sadegh Larijani, is a cleric who is a member
of the the Islamic republic's main vetting body, the Guardians
Council.


As head of state television between 1994 and 2004, Larijani used
his powers to move against reformers with programmes that
attacked intellectuals and people close to reformist President
Mohammad Khatami.

