

Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta on Thursday
rejected a call by a German coalition party leader for dialogue
with moderate elements of the Taliban in Afghanistan.


"I do not think there is a moderate and 'non-moderate' Taliban.
This distinction was invented by somebody who knows nothing about
Afghanistan," Spanta told Germany's regional NDR radio.


He compared the proposal by Social Democrat leader Kurt Beck to
forming a coalition with the neo-Nazi National Democratic Party
(NPD) in Beck's home state of North Rhine-Westphalia in western
Germany.


"It is like saying one can form a coalition with the NPD in North
Rhine- Westphalia or with the moderate NPD."


Beck, whose party is the coalition partners of Chancellor Angela
Merkel's conservatives, suggested after a visit to German troops
in Afghanistan last weekend that military force alone would not
put the country on the path to peace.


"We have exhausted our possibilities... It is time to explore the
possibility of a national reconciliation with the Taliban," Beck
said.


He suggested holding a meeting on Afghanistan along the lines of
the UN- sponsored conference on the country's future which took
place in Bonn in late 2001 as the Taliban was being overthrown.


Spanta told Germany's ARD radio: "At the moment I see no point in
organising and holding such a conference."


Beck's proposal drew muted support from Foreign Minister Frank-
Walter Steinmeier, who is a member of the Social Democrats, but
was strongly criticised by Merkel's Christian Democrats.


Observers saw it as a misguided attempt by Beck to broaden his
foreign policy profile and boost his party's ratings.


International forces are battling the strongest Taliban
insurgency yet since the hardline Islamist movement was toppled
for harbouring Osama bin Laden.


Germany has some 2,750 troops serving in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in northern
Afghanistan and this week sent six Tornado jets to carry out
surveillance missions to help their NATO allies.

