

In late 2004, Anna Burlyai was one of hundreds of thousands who
poured on to the streets of the Ukrainian capital to help current
President Viktor Yushchenko claim power in the Orange Revolution.


Today, as new political crisis rages in Ukraine, Burlyai doesn't
even want to talk about demonstrations.


"I'm too tired and disillusioned," she said -- a sentiment shared
by many in Kiev who have been wearied by the seemingly endless
political battles.


While thousands are demonstrating in the capital both for and
against a presidential order to dissolve parliament, the stand-
off has not struck the same chord as the contested presidential
election that sparked the 2004 Orange Revolution.


"Everything that's happening, it's their fight for power. It's
not at all for my interests," Burlyai said.


The largest recent protests saw tens of thousands of people call
for the dissolution of parliament on Saturday, a shadow of the
hundreds of thousands who took to Maidan, the capital's main
square, in November and December 2004.


Demonstrators defending the parliament peaked at between 10,000
and 20,000 on Saturday, with some 12,000 coming out on Wednesday.


"It's all limp, out of breath," said sociologist Irina Bekechkina
at Kiev's Democratic Initiatives Foundation. "The same Maidan is
not possible any more."


Ukrainians "are too disappointed", especially by the endless
quarrels within the pro-Western "orange" forces.


Their infighting helped Yushchenko's chief rival, pro-Russian
politician Viktor Yanukovych, claim the post of prime minister in
August 2006.


"Nothing today depends on the people," said Roman, a young bank
clerk and former supporter of the Orange Revolution. "All that I
can do is vote in the elections."


"In 2004 we were threatened with a return to the stone age,
threatened with slavery. Today, simply going and voting is
enough," said Svitlana Prudnikova, who heads a local charity.


And while the inhabitants of Kiev welcomed the pro-Yushchenko
demonstrators two years ago with hospitality, are far from
charmed to see their city again filled with protesters.


"I've had enough!" said a trader whose fruit stall is close to
the central Kiev square that was the centre of the 2004
revolution and now hosts pro-Russian rallies with daily concerts.


"They play the music, for the right, for the left... They have
festivals over and again! When do they work?" she asked.


But even among the indifferent, the political conflict has not
gone unnoticed. Many are starting to fear for their future,
Bekechkina said.


"People are afraid of chaos, that the situation will slip out of
control," she said.


"I'm dreaming that that it will end," said Natalya Dobrovolska,
an accountant in Kiev. "My son is a police officer and my
daughter a journalist. I pray to God that nothing happens to them
in this lunatic asylum."

