

Two French aid workers missing in Afghanistan for two days have
likely been kidnapped by Taliban militants, officials said
Thursday after the rebels claimed they had abducted the pair.


The French nationals have been out of contact with their
organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children) since
Tuesday when they were travelling with three Afghan colleagues
from the province of Nimroz westwards to neighboring Farah.


The Taliban militia, who have mounted a bloody insurgency since
they were ousted by US-led forces in 2001, claimed late Wednesday
to have captured the five but this could not be independently
confirmed.


Nimroz provincial governor Gulam Dastgir Azad told AFP he
"strongly" believed the foreigners and their Afghan assistants
had been kidnapped by the Taliban.


"I strongly believe they've been kidnapped by Taliban. I don't
see other reasons for their disappearance but being kidnapped,"
Azad said by telephone from his office in Zaranj, the provincial
capital.


"They'd not informed authorities about their trip. Their
carelessness led to their kidnapping," the governor said.


The governor said he had mobilised some 200 members of the
security forces in a massive search operation in the region. "We
hope these forces locate the missing people," he said.


Earlier, a high-ranking Afghan security official told AFP:
"There's a strong possibility that they've been kidnapped." Asked
who might have been behind their kidnapping, the official, who
asked to remain anonymous, said: "Obviously the Taliban."


Police have launched "a very serious search and investigation"
for the missing French nationals and their Afghan assistants,
interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary said.


The French embassy in Kabul said it could not comment on the
case.


If confirmed as a kidnapping, it would be the second such case
involving foreign nationals in a month. An Italian journalist was
kidnapped March 5 by the Taliban in Helmand province, which
adjoins Nimroz.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo was released two weeks later, after the
government freed five Taliban prisoners including some high-
profile figures.


Among those freed was the Taliban's former spokesman Latif
Hakimi, who was arrested by Pakistani security forces in 2005 in
the Pakistani border town of Quetta and later handed over to
Afghan authorities.


Critics of the controversial deal said the exchange of the
journalist for Taliban could lead to more such kidnappings by
militants and criminals.


The Taliban are still holding Mastrogiacomo's translator, Afghan
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, and have demanded the release of two
more Taliban in exchange for his freedom. The rebels have
beheaded a third man captured with them.

