

Former Hungarian health minister Lajos Molnar said on Thursday
his resignation this week was linked to government delays in
reforming the country's healthcare system.


Molnar, who resigned on Wednesday, said the government was
dragging its feet in overhauling the inefficient state health
insurance provider and replacing it with multiple private
insurers.


"The quality of healthcare will only rise if competition among
insurers forces an improvement," the minister said in a
statement.


"If the government was able to quickly and successfully implement
those health reforms that came with the most problems, then I
cannot personally accept further delaying the last part (of the
reforms) which serve the interests of patients and would make the
healthcare system sustainable," he added.


Molnar, a liberal member of the leftist government, introduced
co-payments of 300 forint (1.20 euros, 1.50 dollars) for doctor's
visits, cracked down on free riders who did not pay social
security, and threatened mass hospital closures, triggering
protests in recent months, with doctors and locals forming "human
shields" around hospitals.


Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany has said more time is
needed to determine whether multiple health insurers would be the
best way to overhaul the current system.


But the freshly elected liberal party chief Janos Koka, who is
also economy minister, staked the leftist coalition's survival
Wednesday on the implementation of the multi-insurer scheme.


The liberals, whom the socialists depend on for a majority in
parliament, have said they want such a system to be up and
running by 2008.


Reforming the healthcare system, burdened with debts and an
excess of low- quality hospitals, has become a key test of the
government's determination to reform the economy, which is
weighed down by the highest budget deficit in the European Union.


Gyurcsany has also raised taxes, cut subsidies on household
energy prices and laid off thousands of civil servants in a bid
to rein in a deficit that is estimated at nearly 10 percent of
gross domestic product for 2006.

