

Thousands of immigrants are expected to demonstrate in several
major cities across the United States on Tuesday, calling for
sweeping reforms of laws governing foreign workers.


Around 100,000 people are expected to gridlock downtown Los
Angeles in day-long demonstrations, one year after more than half
a million, mostly Hispanic, protestors took to the streets here.


Protests and rallies are also scheduled in New York, Chicago,
Miami and Phoenix, but the events are not expected to reach the
scale of last year's massive demonstrations as activists struggle
to present a united front.


Immigrant groups are divided over calls to ask workers and
students to down tools or school-books for a day, a key feature
of the large-scale protests of 2006.


Flavia Jimenez, an analyst at the National Council of La Raza
(NCLR), the largest non-profit Latino rights organization in the
US which opposes a boycott, said workers were wary of possible
repercussions if they protested.


"There is more fear this time and that is preventing our
community from mobilizing like last year," Jimenez told AFP.


She said workers were reluctant to draw attention to themselves
following immigration raids by authorities.


Javier Rodriguez, a spokesman for the March 25 Coalition, which
backs the boycott, said the number of US cities participating in
this year's protests would fall by around 50 percent to roughly
75 this year.


Rodriguez said the size of the protests was affected by divisions
between activists over the best strategy for securing legal
status for the estimated 12 million undocumented migrants in the
US.


Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said meanwhile that school
pupils who went on strike would be dishonoring the legacy of
immigrant families.


"Their parents came to this country for a better life for their
families, for their kids," Villaraigosa said.


"They come to this country, sacrificing, working in the toughest
jobs so their kids could have a great education."


Villaraigosa, the first Hispanic mayor of Los Angeles in more
than a century, said he did not expect Tuesday's protest to match
the scale of last year's demonstration.


"I'm not at this point expecting great numbers like last time,"
Villaraigosa said. "I don't see the same level of organization
around this."


President George W. Bush earlier this month called for an
overhaul of immigration laws by the end of the year. Analysts
believe reform will stall if the issue drags into 2008, as focus
turns to the race for the White House.


Bush's proposals include the creation of a temporary guest worker
program and clearing the way for some undocumented immigrants to
become US citizens, coupled with a series of tougher security
measures.


His ideas have divided his party, with many Republicans saying
they want to see tougher enforcement of border controls and
deriding his guest worker program as an improper "amnesty."


Bush's Democratic critics, who took control the US Congress in
January, are generally more receptive, though some with close
ties to US unions worry that immigration puts downward pressure
on wages.

