

About 10,000 workers marched through central Bangkok to mark May
Day on Tuesday, accusing the military-backed government of
mishandling the economy and demanding an immediate return to
democracy.


Wearing yellow shirts and yellow hats in honour of Thailand's
king, they marched through Bangkok's government district to a
royal plaza.


There was only light security. Police said they deployed 750
officers along the parade route and at the square.


"The government's performance over the past seven months has
caused economic losses," the marchers said in a statement,
referring to the period since the coup last September.


"The economic slowdown has led to rising unemployment while
politics is still not stable," they added.


The labour activists cited in particular the decision to impose
stiff currency controls in December as hurting the economy.


The measures were designed to slow the baht's rapid rise against
the dollar, but alarmed foreign investors and sparked the
biggest-ever drop in the stock market.


Unemployment remains low in Thailand, but has been rising since
November and was at 1.5 percent in February, according to
government statistics.


The activists also denounced a proposed constitution drafted by a
panel handpicked by the military, which would create an appointed
Senate and reduce the number of parliamentarians.


"We call for a return to democracy, under the 1997 constitution,
through immediate elections," the statement said.


Thailand's 1997 constitution was widely praised as the most
democratic charter the nation has ever known, but the military
scrapped it shortly after taking power.


Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont later met a delegation of the
protesters and pledged to consider their demands, which also
included an increase in minimum wages and better protection for
foreign labourers here.


Thailand's cabinet, meanwhile, approved two labour-related laws,
including one that tightens regulations on recruiters who come to
the kingdom to recruit workers for jobs overseas.


The law was approved the day after three Thai workers were killed
in a fire in South Korea.


Another law would better regulate foreign workers in Thailand,
partly by easing restrictions on the kinds of jobs they are
allowed to take.


Both require approval from the military-appointed parliament
before taking effect.

