

Italian star Ivan Basso said he is "at peace" with himself ahead
of an Italian Olympic Committee (CONI) hearing on doping
allegations Wednesday which could decide his future as a cyclist.


Basso, last year's Tour of Italy winner and a pre-race favourite
for the 2007 Tour de France, quit Discovery Channel on Monday
claiming that ongoing suspicions on him were damaging the team.


It has ruled him out of defending his Tour of Italy title in less
than two weeks time, and has likely ruled him out of the Tour de
France - in which he would start as the favourite - for the
second year running.


The 29-year-old Basso was one of dozens of riders implicated in
the 'Operation Puerto' doping affair last year, which has re-
erupted in recent weeks.


Basso has always protested his innocence and says he is feeling
relaxed ahead of the hearing, where he could be asked to provide
a DNA sample.


"I left Discovery Channel because I didn't want my team or my
teammates to pay for something which really only concerns me,"
Basso told La Gazzetta dello Sport.


"Whether I'm going to a hearing or not, I'm at peace with my
conscience."


Basso's recent suspension by Discovery, the former team of Lance
Armstrong and in which the seven-time Tour de France winner still
has a stake, had already placed his Giro d'Italia participation
in doubt.


The three-week Giro begins May 12, and Basso confirmed Tuesday:
"In any case I won'e be riding the Giro. As soon as I left
Discovery, I decided I would not be racing there.


"It's been five days since I last trained. The idea of going
there to defend my pink (race winner's) jersey is not something
I'm preoccupied with at the moment."


Basso and Discovery's decision has left a huge question mark over
the Italian's future.


He missed the Tour de France last year after being implicated in
the affair, which also led to the suspension and sacking of Jan
Ullrich by T-Mobile. Germany's 1997 Tour winner also protested
his innocence and has since retired from the sport.


A DNA sample from Basso is expected to be compared to blood found
among the hundreds of frozen bags discovered by police when they
raided the premises of a Madrid sports doctor Eufemiano Fuentes
in May 2006.


A recent DNA sample from Ullrich reportedly linked him to blood
found in Fuentes' laboratory, leading Tour de France director
Christian Prudhomme to declare last week: "The sport just cannot
allow cyclists who are still implicated in this affair to start
the Tour de France if suspicion still hangs over them."


Police also found banned substances such as EPO (erythropoietin),
growth hormones and anabolic steroids, and incriminating
documents with alleged codenames and numbers for Fuentes'
'clients'.


On Monday Italian sports daily Gazzetta claimed that another, as
yet unidentified, 49 cyclists are implicated in the doping
affair, bringing the total to 107 and threatening to cast an even
darker cloud over the sport ahead of the first two major stage
races of the season.

