

Afghan students burned an effigy of US President George W. Bush
Tuesday as they rallied in a third day of protests against
civilians alleged to have been killed by coalition troops.


A crowd of about 500 blocked a highway in the eastern province of
Nangarhar, where six people were killed Sunday,


The incident came amid concern about claims of heavy civilian
casualties in the western province of Herat.


Parliamentarians expressed anger Monday at mounting civilian
deaths in military operations against insurgents, including by
the US-led coalition that invaded Afghanistan and toppled the
Taliban regime in 2001.


The coalition has said that four of the people killed on Sunday,
in a raid on a suspected suicide bombing cell, were militants. A
woman and a teenager were killed in the crossfire.


But Tuesday's protesters insisted all six were civilians.


A 24-year-old student named Abdul Hafiz said President Hamid
Karzai and the national assembly must bring the soldiers to
justice or quit.


"It is for the president and national assembly to protect their
citizens, stand against injustice. They must investigate and
bring the guilty US soldiers to justice, if they are incapable of
doing that, they better resign," he said.


Agriculture student Esmatullah, 20, said the US raid was
"barbaric".


"If the Americans have suspicions of people they must arrest the
suspects and try them in a court not directly kill them in their
houses with their family," he said.


Abdul Aziz, 23, questioned US respect for democracy and rights.


"They say they support democracy and human rights and they fight
against terrorism but I think to enter people's houses with guns
and force and kill them for no reason is the worst terrorism
itself," he told AFP.


Officials said meanwhile that they were investigating locals'
claims that civilians were among 136 Taliban fighters the
coalition said it and Afghan troops killed in the Shindand
district of Herat province in engagements on Friday and Sunday.


About 1,000 people protested Monday, burning government buildings
in the district.


"We don't have a figure for (civilian casualties) now," the Herat
governor's spokeswoman, Farzana Ahmadi, said.


Herat provincial police chief Mohammad Shafiz Fazli said Sunday's
operation was not coordinated with provincial authorities.


Parliament demanded Monday the formation of commissions to travel
to the provinces to investigate, parliamentary media officer
Haseeb Noori told AFP.

