

Hundreds of people rallied in Afghanistan's capital Kabul on
Tuesday to protest Iran's expulsion of tens of thousands of
Afghan refugees, witnesses said.


Some 500 people marched from western Kabul to the Iranian embassy
carrying banners condemning Tehran's action.


One of the banners described Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad and his forces as "devils."


"Islam has no borders, we condemn Iran's brutal act," the banner
said.


Iran launched a drive to expel the refugees on April 21 and sent
back some 25,000 within the space of a few days, prompting strong
protests by the Afghan government.


Iran's Interior Minister Mostafa Pour Mohammadi has said the
government planned to send back around 500,000 refugees in the
first phase.


Afghan interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary said Tuesday's
protest was peaceful.


On Sunday Afghanistan called on Iran to stop the expulsions,
saying the destitute country could not afford to resettle the
refugees.


Around 20,000 refugees were dropped across the border in
Afghanistan's Nimroz province, among them women who were picked
up from the streets and who had left family members behind,
Nimroz governor Ghulam Dastageer Azad has said.


"Among the forced returnees here, there are women who have left
family members in Iran, there are people who have left their
accounts unsettled in Iran," said Azad.


Millions of Afghans have fled their country because of the
violence and conflict that has destroyed much of Afghanistan over
the past three decades.


There were up to four million Afghans in Iran during
Afghanistan's civil war.


Following the collapse of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan,
millions of Afghans returned home from Iran and Pakistan. But
both countries are still each estimated to host two million
Afghan refugees.


Many of the Afghans in Iran are employed as labourers in the
construction industry or in other low paid jobs.


More than 25,000 Afghans have been sent back by Iranian
authorities since April 21, according to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, and more are being forced out.

