

As climate change experts meet in Bangkok, poor nations suffering
the brunt of global warming's worst effects are determined their
voices will not be drowned out by bickering world powers.


Impoverished countries, struggling with a lack of money, basic
technology, large populations and weak infrastructure, have few
tools to tackle climate change or halt its impact on their
environment.


That will not stop them demanding a say as the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the UN's leading body on global
warming, meets here to hammer out a plan to limit the worst
impacts of global warming.


"Developing countries are innocent as far as emissions causing
the climate change, but unfortunately seem to be recipients of
undesirable outcomes," Rwandan delegate Didace Musoni said.


"My input is equally important. We need each other to solve this
problem which threatens all of us," he told AFP on the first day
of the IPCC meeting, which runs to Friday.


An IPCC report in April warned that drought, floods and storms
will increase as global temperatures rise, putting the health of
millions at risk.


The poorest counties will be hardest hit, it said, despite being
largely guilt- free when it comes to carbon dioxide emissions.


In 2004, just 20 percent of people on Earth lived in rich
countries, but IPCC figures showed they were responsible for 46
percent of all the greenhouse gasses spewed into the atmosphere
that year.


It is the rich and fast-developing nations that are predicted to
dominate the Bangkok session, with heavy polluters China and the
United States expected to lock horns with nations keen for a more
eco-friendly approach.


A report is expected to be released at the end of the meeting. An
early draft of the panel's 24-page summary, seen by AFP, says
that greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced at modest cost, with
renewable energy, nuclear power, reforestation and a carbon tax
all possible solutions.


Abigail Gay Jabines, climate campaigner for environmental group
Greenpeace, said poor nations should focus on renewable energy
such as solar and wind power and bypass the "dirty" energy phase
that rich countries went through.


"It's something that these countries can do without following the
footsteps of the industrialised nations and releasing millions of
tons of carbon dioxide," she said.


However, some countries are finding they have little choice but
to turn to more polluting methods to supply the ever-increasing
demand for power.


"Ten years ago (our energy) was mostly hydro-electricity," said
delegate Lalith Chandrapala, from Sri Lanka's Department of
Meteorology.


"Now, with the increase in power consumption... we are going into
coal. The problem is for a country like Sri Lanka, because our
economy is not that strong, we can't afford anything else."


Chandrapala said rich countries should share climate change
technologies with poorer ones.


He also pointed to an arrangement under the Kyoto Protocol
allowing rich nations to invest in green projects in poor
countries to compensate for their own emissions -- a process
called the clean development mechanism, or CDM.


Another voice calling for poor nations to have a say is China,
which is expected soon to overtake the United States as the
world's biggest emitter of carbon dioxide.


Chinese delegate Sun Guoshun told AFP that he hoped the final
IPCC report reflected the views of rich and poor nations.


But one delegate said polluting countries such as China and India
should stop hiding behind the "developing country" tag to shirk
their environmental responsibilities.


"The argument that you are still a developing country is getting
weaker and weaker," said Marzio Galeotti, Italian delegate and an
energy economist at the University of Milan.


"In a few years, in terms of overall GDP (gross domestic
product), China will overcome even Japan and will be close to the
US."


Despite the squabbles, most delegates agree that there is little
time to waste to prevent a climate change disaster.


"Whether we have different incomes (and) backgrounds, the change
in climate is there. Whether you are rich or poor, developed or
developing, the impact is on your door," Rwanda's Musoni said.

