

Yao Ming scored six of Houston's final eight points and the
Rockets regained control of their Western Conference first-round
series against the Utah Jazz with a 96-92 win in game five.


The Rockets had be happy to be back in Houston on Monday after
suffering a pair of double-digit road losses after taking a
commanding 2-0 lead.


Utah tied the series with a pair of dominant home wins, including
holding Houston to a franchise-playoff low 67 points in game
three on Thursday.


The Jazz had a chance to steal on Monday but China's giant centre
Yao came up big when it mattered.


In the other Western game Monday, Robert Horry lived up to his
reputation as San Antonio shaded Denver 96-89 to take a
commanding series lead.


Nursing a 91-90 lead, Houston turned to Yao, who responded with a
turnaround jumper off the glass to extend the lead to 93-90 with
1:25 to play.


Yao sealed the win with two free throws with 11 seconds left.


He finished with 21 points and 15 rebounds and was nine-of-10
from the line.


Tracy McGrady had 26 points and a career-high 16 assists despite
leaving the game temporarily in the first quarter with a hip
pointer.


"I was really trying to be aggressive," McGrady said. "I was
trying to give my teammates open shots and also attack the
basket."


McGrady left the bench with 1:14 to go in the first quarter and
went to the locker room with a trainer. He returned to score 20
points in the final three quarters.


Yao was key down the stretch for the Rockets.


All-star forward Carlos Boozer scored 26 points and had eight
rebounds for the Jazz. It was the first time all series that
Boozer did not record a double- double.


"We had a stretch there where they got most of the hustle plays
as I recall," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "They got a couple of
plays going to the basket and we lost concentration."


Game six of the National Basketball Association series will be in
Utah on Thursday, when Houston will look for its first playoff
series win since 1997.


Denver knew what was coming but they still couldn't contain
Horry.


Horry again drained a crucial three-pointer down the stretch and
Tim Duncan collected 22 points and 11 rebounds as the Spurs beat
the Nuggets in their first-round Western Conference series.


Manu Ginobili added 18 points and six assists for the Spurs, who
took a lead in the series following a 96-91 victory on Saturday
in which they got key contributions from a pair of veterans -
including Horry.


"The guys got frustrated but this is playoffs we have got to be
tough mentally and physically and it came out good," Horry said.


In his 15th season, Horry owns six championship rings as a member
of the Houston Rockets, Los Angeles Lakers and Spurs. But the
lanky forward was more than just along for the ride on those
squads.


Horry built a reputation for hitting clutch shots in the biggest
moments and it was no different Monday.


The 36-year-old forward, who already has hinted that this will be
his last season, thwarted Denver during crunch time.


After Nuggets guard Steve Blake's long two pulled the Nuggets to
within one, Horry came up big for the second straight contest.


Benefitting from penetration by the lightning-quick Tony Parker,
Horry dropped in a high-arching three-pointer from the right
corner to make it 93-89 with 30 seconds left. France's Parker
finished with 15 points and four assists.


The veteran forward, who also drained an off-balance jumper with
43 seconds left to secure Saturday's win, shot two-of-three from
the floor.


"So many players put pressure on themselves because they want to
be the man that makes the big shot," Horry said. "I don't care
about being the man. I just want to go out and play and have fun.
There is so much more to life than playing basketball."


But the key to game - as always for San Antonio - was the
relentless defensive effort, especially against Nuggets superstar
Allen Iverson.

