

Iraq will push hard at this week's security conference in Egypt
for firm measures from its neighbours to help end the bloodshed,
but also fears the event may be hijacked by US-Iran talks.


On May 3 and 4, leaders from Iraq's neighbours, the five
permanent UN Security Council members and the Group of Eight will
meet in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh to discuss the
turmoil plaguing Iraq.


The meeting aims to find ways and means to pull Baghdad out of
the brutal communal strife that threatens to overspill and become
a full-blown regional crisis.


The conference is a second attempt by Baghdad within two months
to build a consensus with its neighbours, some of which stand
accused of stirring extremist violence and supplying arms and
recruits to Iraqi militant groups.


"It is very important that progress happens in this meeting, as
the Iraqi situation can't be resolved without the help of
neighbours," said Joost Hiltermann, an Iraq expert at the
International Crisis Group think tank.


Iraqi officials have worked overtime to make the conference a
success, and Sunday's decision by Tehran to attend despite the
presence of the United States is a feather in the cap for Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


After a flurry of diplomatic visits between Iraq and Iran, Tehran
agreed to dispatch its Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki to a
gathering at which he will sit at the same table as US Secretary
of State Condoleeza Rice.


On Sunday, Maliki again warned his neighbours that the "terrorist
attacks that target Iraq are not limited to Iraq, but will spread
to every country in the world."


The Shiite premier toured Egypt, Kuwait and Oman to drum up
support for his initiative among Sunni Arab leaders suspicious of
his new regime, which is seen by them as being too close to Iran,
their traditional rival.


Meanwhile his foreign minister, Hosyhar Zebari, was given the
tough job of persuading Tehran to set aside its enmity with the
West.


Tehran accepted the invitation to the talks during a telephone
conversation on Sunday between Maliki and Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


Iran was particularly angry about the continued detention of five
of its officials by the US military in Iraq on suspicion of
stirring anti-American insurgency in the war-torn country.


Washington has repeatedly accused Iranian elements of arming,
funding and training Iraqi groups, especially Shiite militias in
their fight against Sunni factions and also against US soldiers.


"The developments between Iran, the United States and the West
have had a negative effect on Iraq's situation, and the more they
have dialogue together the more it will help the Iraqi
government's efforts to succeed," Zebari said.


"We believe that the participation of the Islamic republic is
vital and necessary in order to decrease the level of tension in
Iraq," he said during his visit to Tehran last week.


Experts have voiced fears that Iran's growing influence in Iraq
could provoke regional Sunni states into helping armed elements
from Iraq's minority Sunni community, thus worsening the
sectarian conflict.


Saudi Arabia has already said that Maliki is not doing enough to
include members of his country's former Sunni elite in the
mainstream political process, and on Sunday Zebari confirmed
reports its king had turned down a request to meet Maliki.


These changing dynamics threaten to turn Iraq's sectarian strife
into the regional conflict feared by the United States and its
allies.


The United Nations pointman in Iraq, Ashraf Qazi, said the Egypt
conference is at least an opportunity for Iraq and its suspicious
neighbours to bury their differences and pull Baghdad out of the
quagmire.


"Each of them have their concerns, each of them have their
perspectives. But each has a common stake, a shared stake in
stability of Iraq," Qazi said.


"There is no exception... because if things were to destabilise
here it would have a negative impact on their security
environment," he told AFP.


But with Washington and Tehran at loggerheads over the latter's
alleged plan to build nuclear weapons, he said, a possible
meeting between Rice and Mottaki would to some extent take the
focus away from the Iraq issue.


On Sunday, Rice told ABC News she does "not rule out" an
encounter with Mottaki.


Mottaki previously shared a brief moment with Zalmay Khalilzad,
the former US envoy to Baghdad, on March 10 at the Baghdad
conference which set the ball rolling for the Egypt summit.


Qazi's views were echoed by Hiltermann, but he said any talks
between the two rivals would help Baghdad.


"US-Iran dynamics are profound. The Iranians have no interests in
making life easier for US in Iraq, if US is opposed to their
nuclear programme," he said.


"Iran's nuclear issue is hard to be excluded from the Sharm
meeting, though formal talks will be limited to Iraq issue. But
it is important that ministers meet and break the ice. It is the
very beginning of the process."

