

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe started a visit to the Qatari
capital on Tuesday, the final leg of a Gulf tour aimed at
establishing an energy and business partnership.


Abe was set to hold separate talks with Qatar's emir, Sheikh
Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, and his Qatari counterpart Sheikh
Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani.


Energy security and business tie-ups, including investment
coordination, were to figure high on the agenda of the talks,
said a Japanese source requesting anonymity.


Qatar is Japan's fourth largest natural resources exporter.


Oil shipments from the energy-rich state to the world's second
largest economy account for nine percent of Japan's needs, with
12 percent of its natural gas imports coming from Qatar.


On Monday, Abe met Kuwait's emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah
and his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed al-
Sabah, on the first visit to the Gulf Arab state by a Japanese
premier.


He was to fly to Cairo on Wednesday to meet with Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak on his way back to Tokyo. Abe already met
with leaders of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE)
during the weekend.


He and King Abdullah agreed to forge "multi-layered" ties between
Japan and Saudi Arabia, while the premier agreed with UAE leaders
to launch a high-level dialogue to boost economic ties, pledging
to speed up free trade talks.


On Sunday, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Abu
Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) signed an agreement to boost
Japanese investment in resources-related projects in the UAE.


The government-run bank will consider providing ADNOC with loans
expected to amount to around one billion dollars, a foreign
ministry source said, adding that details of the loan, including
the total amount, have yet to be finalised.


Japan is increasingly concerned by potential threats to its
energy supply.


It has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its own, and relies
for more than 70 percent of its oil supply on the four Gulf Arab
states that Abe has been touring.


On the regional diplomatic front, Abe and Kuwait's emir agreed to
make more efforts to help subdue conflicts in Iraq, a Japanese
government official said.


Meanwhile, Abe voiced concern about Iran's nuclear crisis, while
Sabah said: "If Iran uses nuclear energy peacefully, Kuwait can
have benefit. If Iran uses nuclear energy militarily, it will
bring some trouble to Kuwait."


Early Tuesday, Abe made the first visit by a Japanese leader to
its personnel posted in Kuwait for an air force mission
supporting US-led operations in Iraq.


Some 210 members of Japan's Air Self-Defence Force with three
C130 transport airplanes have been deployed at the Gulf state's
Ali Al-Salem Air Base west of Kuwait City.


The personnel are flying in goods and personnel between the base
and Iraqi cities, including Baghdad, on behalf of the US-led
coalition and United Nations despite Japan's withdrawal of ground
troops last year.

