

The world's biggest miner BHP Billiton warned Tuesday that a new
industrial relations policy touted by Australia's opposition
could stifle the mining boom that fuels the country's roaring
economy.


The Anglo-Australian heavyweight's rare foray into politics came
after the opposition Labor Party unveiled plans for revamping
workplace laws if it comes to power in elections late this year,
setting itself up for a potentially bruising battle with big
business.


"We have some concerns about the Australian Labor Party's (ALP)
industrial relations policy and the potential for it to adversely
affect the continued expansion of the minerals industry," a BHP
spokesperson said in an email.


"If the ALP is committed to abolishing Australian Workplace
Agreements, it is critical that it comes up with an industrial
relations system that promotes rather than stymies Australia's
minerals industry," the firm warned.


Labor announced at the weekend it would scrap current industrial
relations regulations introduced by Prime Minister John Howard's
government, including its individual bargaining system of
Australian Workplace Agreements (AWAs), in favour of a return to
collective bargaining.


As well as facilitating individual bargaining, the government's
rules also make it easier for companies to sack workers.


But Labor leader Kevin Rudd, who is challenging Howard for his
job, last weekend announced a re-strengthening of unfair
dismissal laws.


BHP slammed the planned move back towards collective bargaining
saying it would create inflexibility in the mining sector
workforce and slash productivity, hurting the economic boom
Australia has enjoyed for a decade.


"This is a retrograde step that will only contribute to
inflexibility for employers and employees that in turn will
hamper further industry growth," the BHP statement said.


"The mining industry has been hugely rewarding for the Australian
economy, Australian businesses and our workers.


"We will continue to talk to the ALP to try to ensure that
(industrial relations) policies are created that support the
continued development of this industry," it said.


Fellow mining giant Rio Tinto Ltd's former chief executive
officer Leigh Clifford joined the chorus of criticism of Labor's
plan, saying Tuesday the mining industry needed the flexibility
offered by AWAs.


Some big business groups also slammed Labor's plans and Howard's
government has presented them as a signal that the country's
economic growth would slow if the opposition won this year's
general election.


Australia's biggest business group the Australian Chamber of
Commerce and Industry warned it was considering staging an
advertising campaign against Labor's workplace policies.


"They did not give us the opportunity to discuss with them the
details of their policy before they released it," the group's
chief executive Peter Hendy said.


"That is very unfortunate. We have a perfect right to ask for
consultation on these issues."


As the backlash hit home, would-be prime minister Rudd admitted
that no single formula would please everyone and said he would
listen to the business community to get the detail of his policy
right.


But he stuck to his guns, saying the policy measures were fair
and flexible and that they would simply have to be balanced.


"Business itself can say what it likes, it's a free country, we
welcome their views, whether we agree with them or disagree
them," Rudd said.


"It's not going to be a case of one-size-fits-all, that's why
we've still got to make sure we get the balance right.

