

Taiwan announced Tuesday that it had re-established relations
with the Caribbean state of St Lucia in a diplomatic victory
which immediately drew anger from rival China.


Taiwan's Foreign Minister James Huang, currently in St Lucia,
signed the communique with his counterpart Rufus Bousquet on
April 30, Deputy Foreign Minister Yang Tzu-pao said.


"After four-and-a-half months of hard work, we accomplished the
mission to restore diplomatic ties with St Lucia," Huang told a
press conference in Taipei via telephone.


"We can form a constructive partnership with St Lucia and we
welcome China continuing to be St Lucia's partner. We hope for a
win-win situation for all and we do not mean to engage in zero-
sum games with China," he said.


China expressed "indignation and opposition" Tuesday to the
announcement, with foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao
accusing Taiwan of pursuing "money diplomacy" in its efforts to
seek diplomatic allies around the world.


"The resumption of diplomatic relations between St Lucia and
Taiwan is a flagrant violation of the declaration on the
establishment of diplomatic relations between China and St
Lucia," he said.


"It also constitutes interference in the internal affairs of
China," he said in a statement posted on the China's foreign
ministry website.


Liu urged St Lucia to rethink the decision or "be responsible for
the consequences incurred."


The news initially came to light last week, when Premier Su
Tseng-chang made a surprise announcement that St Lucia was set to
restore ties with Taiwan.


Su's announcement drew heated criticism from Vice President
Annette Lu, who accused him of attempting to drum up support for
his presidential election campaign.


Su and Lu are competing for the ruling Democratic Progressive
Party's nomination for the 2008 presidential race.


The opposition also lambasted Su, warning that his "big mouth"
might alert rival China and prompt it to take counter-measures.


Taiwan and St Lucia, an island nation in the eastern Caribbean
with a population of about 170,000, opened diplomatic relations
in 1984, when current Prime Minister John Compton was first in
power.


Taipei severed ties in 1997, when then prime minister Kenny
Anthony switched recognition to Beijing. Compton was re-elected
late last year.


Including St Lucia, 25 countries now recognise Taipei. Latin
America, the South Pacific and Africa are the main diplomatic
battlegrounds for rivals Taiwan and China, which split in 1949 at
the end of a civil war.


Taiwan and China have each accused each other in the past of
using "chequebook diplomacy" to lure the other's allies.


Taipei suffered a diplomatic setback when Chad switched
recognition to Beijing last year.

