

Tens of thousands of people across Russia called for higher
salaries and pensions Tuesday in May Day demonstrations that for
the most part carefully avoided criticism of the Kremlin.


Russian state television showed crowds gathering in cities from
Vladivostok to Moscow.


Demonstrators, mostly organised by the trade unions, Communist
Party, and pro- Kremlin parties, waved multi-coloured balloons
and blue or red flags.


"We demand dignified work, dignified life, and dignified time
off," Mikhail Shmakov, head of the federation of independent
trade unions, said on state-run Vesti 24 television.


About 25,000 union members gathered in central Moscow, more than
20,000 in the Siberian city of Omsk, and more than 80,000 in
Yakutia, also in Siberia, Interfax quoted police as saying.


However, while calling on the government to ensure better living
conditions there was little criticism of President Vladimir
Putin, who maintains tight control over the country's political
scene and is accused by opponents of building an authoritarian
state.


Exceptions included minor protests organised in Moscow and Saint
Petersburg by the liberal Yabloko party and one in Moscow by the
even smaller Mui (We) youth group.


"No to a police state!" read placards at the Yabloko protest
outside the secret services headquarters in the capital.


Communists in Moscow also turned on the Kremlin, marching with
red flags and portraits of Soviet leaders Lenin and Stalin,
shouting, "Russia without Putin!"


Police in the Urals city of Ufa arrested a dozen people carrying
flags of the opposition group United Civil Front, which is headed
by former chess champion Garry Kasparov, a local human rights
activist told Echo of Moscow radio.


The relatively relaxed atmosphere contrasted sharply with the
violent dispersal by riot police of two openly anti-Kremlin
demonstrations in Saint Petersburg and Moscow last month.


Under Soviet rule, May 1 was a major holiday in which organised
demonstrations celebrating international socialism took place
across the Soviet Union. The holiday has been renamed in Russia
"Spring and Labour Day."


Putin, who is to step down next year at the end of his second
term in office, has systematically tightened the Kremlin's grip
on parliament, major businesses, and the media. Opposition street
protests are rarely tolerated.


Russia's authorities, which came under widespread criticism in
the West over the break-up of the opposition marches, appear keen
to show the country still enjoys freedom of assembly.


There was even a demonstration by trade unions in Grozny, the
devastated capital of Chechnya, where police armed with
Kalashnikov rifles accompanied participants down a reconstructed
main avenue, state television showed.


The May Day demonstration was the first there since Chechnya
launched its failed independence bid following the 1991 Soviet
collapse, sparking two wars against Russian forces and the death
of an estimated 100,000 Chechens.

