

Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi Tuesday urged Malaysia's
workforce to be more competitive and move towards a knowledge-
based economy in comments marking May Day.


Abdullah said Malaysia's ability to compete in the face of
increasing  regional competition hinged on the quality and
productivity of its workers.


"The country needs trained and skilled workers in various fields
and the need is escalating in line with the trend toward a
knowledge economy," he said, adding "Malaysia cannot continue to
depend on cheap labour costs."


Abdullah, who took over as premier in 2003, has introduced a
broad economic plan with less reliance on the labour-intensive
construction and manufacturing sectors -- traditionally the
cornerstone of the country's economy.


He said Malaysia's goal of becoming a developed nation needed the
commitment of workers "to equip themselves with the
characteristics and attitude of a society with first-class
mentality."


But top opposition lawmaker Lim Kit Siang told AFP that despite
promises by the government to invest more in developing human
capital, the conditions of workers were largely unchanged.


"The economy has moved towards a knowledge-based one, but it is
not because of the prime minister's leadership. There are still
no major changes in labour laws," Lim said.


"All the talk about developing human capital has yet to bring
about meaningful changes to improve the standard of living of
workers, who are faced with ever- increasing living costs," he
said.


Malaysia's main trade union group said Tuesday it would campaign
for a minimum wage of 900 ringgit (263 US dollars) per month for
Malaysian workers.


The Malaysian Trades Union Congress (MTUC), in its May Day
message, said wage rates in most workplaces did not keep up with
economic growth and the consumer price index.


"Workers see the globalisation process being used as an excuse to
keep wage levels low ... and remove job security through
outsourcing and contracting," said MTUC secretary general
G.Rajasekaran.


Rajasekaran said large numbers of permanent workers were being
enticed with voluntary retrenchment schemes, which offered some
incentive payment for resigning, to allow employers to replace
them with cheaper foreign labour.


Malaysia is one of Asia's largest importers of labour, with
foreign workers both legal and illegal making up about 2.6
million of the country's 10.5 million workforce.

