

Former Wales coach Scott Johnson Tuesday warned Australia's
Wallabies not to underestimate the new look Wales squad announced
for a two-Test tour Down Under.


Johnson, who is now Wallabies assistant coach, said the
Australians would have to respect the Wales squad despite the
fact that 18 frontline players will remain at home for a summer
training camp ahead of the World Cup.


"Welsh rugby has greatly increased in depth in recent years and
the team they are bringing out is brimming with international
experience and are highly suited to Test rugby," said Johnson.


"The 18 players they have left at home were all part of the Welsh
team that finished equal bottom of this year's Six Nations, so I
don't think the new players coming in can be regarded as second
choice.


"Based on the number of changes, I think the Welsh coaching staff
will use these matches to draw out their best 30 and will be
testing as many players as they can before the World Cup."


The first Test is at Sydney's Telstra Stadium on May 26 and will
be followed a week later by the second at Suncorp Stadium in
Brisbane.


Johnson said the inclusion of six British and Irish Lions players
-- Gareth Thomas (captain), Gavin Henson, Gareth Cooper, Brent
Cockbain, Michael Owen and Dafydd James -- would add invaluable
experience and resolve to the Welsh.


"Six of this squad has played with the British and Irish Lions
and they will be chomping at the bit to have a crack at the
Wallabies. They know a good tour in Australia will put them into
a strong position to be in the squad in France."


Johnson said the touring forward pack would have more experience
and be "more abrasive" than their Six Nations counterparts.


"Come World Cup, there's a good chance that there will be many
players from this tour in their squad in France," he said.


Wales coach Gareth Jenkin stressed when he named the squad Monday
that selection for the World Cup was still wide open.


"Ultimately we will be picking the group of 30 players that we
believe will give us the best chance of winning the rugby World
Cup," he said.


"If you're playing well then you are never too old and never too
young. Selection will be about the here and now and so those
players in possession of the shirts on tour to Australia have
every chance of holding on to them.


"There are some players who have not had the opportunity to show
us their talents. We finished the Six Nations strongly and were
able to maintain consistency of selection during that campaign,
but we also have an open mind and this tour will help us gain
clarity of thought certain areas of selection."

