

Kuwait has recovered 548 million dollars from British and Spanish
court rulings on graft cases involving Kuwaitis and foreigners, a
top legal official said on Tuesday.


"We have won court orders, in Britain and Spain, worth 1.011
billion dollars, of which we have actually received 548 million
dollars," Fuad al-Majed, head of the Kuwaiti government's legal
team told parliament.


The cases were filed by the legal team in British and Spanish
courts regarding corruption cases involving former top Kuwaiti
investment officials accused of graft amounting to hundreds of
millions of dollars.


The announcement came during a special parliamentary debate
called by opposition MPs to follow up on measures taken by the
government to restore stolen public funds.


The courts found former top officials of the London-based Kuwait
Investment Office (KIO), including members of the ruling Al-Sabah
family, guilty of stealing public funds.


The verdicts specifically relate to two major graft cases that
took place about two decades ago.


The first concerns the loss of investments worth five billion
dollars in the Spanish Torras Group in which former KIO officials
were cited to have committed a number of fraud cases.


The second relates to state-owned Kuwait Oil Tanker Co (KOTC) in
which five former top officials, including former oil minister
Sheikh Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, stand accused.


Some of the KOTC officials were convicted by a British court for
amassing illegal profits in the 1980s by creating paper companies
and leasing oil tankers, causing losses to state-owned KOTC of
more than 100 million dollars.


KIO was established in the early 1960s by oil-rich Kuwait to
manage its overseas assets. In early 1980s, KIO was placed under
the newly-established Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA).


Some of the fraud cases were carried out when Kuwait was under
Iraqi occupation between August 1990 and February 1991.


Sheikh Ali has categorically denied any involvement in the graft
cases.


Majed also said that the Kuwaiti legal team has filed two new
major cases, the first in Switzerland worth 757 million dollars
and the other in Spain with a value of about 780 million dollars.

