

Former Wales coach Mike Ruddock was unveiled as Worcester's new
director of rugby on Tuesday and immediately promised to develop
an exciting brand of free- running rugby similar to that which
helped Wales win the Grand Slam in 2005.


Ruddock, who led Wales to that Six Nations Championship clean
sweep two years ago, has agreed a three-year contract and will
take over from John Brain.


Brain left the club on Monday just 48 hours after Worcester
secured their Premiership survival by finishing one point above
relegated Northampton.


Despite Wales securing their first Grand Slam for 27 years during
Ruddock's reign, he left the post suddenly midway through last
season's Six Nations campaign.


The reasons for his departure have never been fully explained,
although so- called player power was believed to be a factor.


Ruddock, who has been assisting his local club Mumbles in a
coaching capacity, will inherit a Worcester squad that has
already been strengthened for next season by the signing of All
Blacks centre Sam Tuitupou, while most of the existing playing
group have already agreed to stay at Sixways.


"I am delighted to be able to take up this exciting position with
Worcester Warriors," said Ruddock, 47.


"This is a very ambitious club with significant goals for the
future, and it is a journey I want to be part of and that I am
excited about.


"I am very impressed with what (chairman) Cecil Duckworth and the
board have achieved at Warriors in taking the club all the way
through the lower leagues to holding their own among the rugby
elite.


"I now want my arrival to take the club onto the next level, and
I already have thoughts and plans for our style of play to take
the team forward."


Ruddock will look at the existing Worcester coaching and playing
resources throughout the summer months, but he has already made
no secret of his approach to the game.


"I have watched the team play and there is no doubt that we can
develop the style of play in terms of winning games and playing
quality rugby that people will enjoy watching in a similar vein
to the Wales team that won the Grand Slam in 2005," he said.


Duckworth said: "In Mike, we have appointed a man who I know has
both the credentials and talent to take this club on to the next
level and our aim of European rugby.


"Mike has worked at the very highest level and has a fantastic
reputation throughout the rugby world.


"We now look forward to a new era at Sixways under his
leadership."

