

African Union troops on Tuesday patrolled areas of northern
Mogadishu battered by recent heavy clashes, and pledged to offer
security to aid groups in the face of a looming humanitarian
crisis.


Five days after Islamist insurgents and clan fighters melted away
in the face of heavy fire by Somali-backed Ethiopian troops, AU
spokesman Paddy Ankunda said Ugandan peacekeepers were ready to
protect humanitarian teams.


"It is within our mandate to offer security to humanitarian
workers who will come to Mogadishu to help these people," he told
AFP, as he patrolled with a convoy of more than 20 trucks.


"These people urgently need medical help, and our (medical)
company has been overwhelmed," he said, as the convoy scouted the
city to assess the damage wrought by nine days of clashes that
ended Thursday.


Meanwhile, hundreds of residents filed back to their mortar-
blasted homes, after having taken refuge outside the city, on the
fifth-day of relative calm.


At least 1,400 people, mainly civilians, have died in fighting in
recent weeks and up to 400,000 have fled Mogadishu since the
start of February.


The UN and the AU have warned of an imminent humanitarian
catastrophe, with many struggling to find basic necessities such
as food, clean water and electricity.


Ankunda said the peacekeepers, who currently control the airport,
port, presidential palace and "a notorious assasination junction"
would soon extend their positions to "secure the whole city".


Some 1,500 Ugandan AU peacekeepers arrived in Somalia on March 6
but the AU has so far failed to deploy the rest of a promised
mission of 8,000.


Ankunda said the Ugandan forces were suffering from setbacks
caused by the delay in sending troops from other African nations.


"There is no doubt that they are letting us down, but we have
been assured that they will come," he said.


Insurgent leaders on Monday vowed to change tactics in the
contest for Mogadishu and also to target foreign peacekeepers.


"As long as we are welcomed by the Somali people, we do not feel
that we are targets," Ankunda said.

