

French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen called on his
supporters Tuesday to abstain en masse from voting in Sunday's
presidential election.


Le Pen said neither socialist candidate Segolene Royal nor
rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy deserved the support of the 3.8
million voters who backed him in the first round of voting.


"I call on voters who have shown their confidence in me to cast
their vote neither for Madame Royal nor for Mr Sarkozy and to
abstain en masse," said Le Pen, who came fourth in round one with
10.44 percent of the vote.


"There are two candidates in the running and both of them are
official representatives of parties and policies that for the
past 30 years have brought France to the brink of a political,
economic, social, cultural and moral abyss," he told thousands of
supporters in Paris.


The 78-year-old leader of the National Front shocked the nation
in the 2002 presidential election when he won enough votes to
stand in the runoff against Jacques Chirac.


But he lost a large share of votes this time round to Sarkozy,
whose campaign touched on the themes of controlling immigration
and national identity that have been key planks of the far right
for the past 25 years.


An Ipsos/Dell poll released Tuesday showed that 61 percent of Le
Pen's voters will back Sarkozy on Sunday against 15 percent for
Royal. Some 24 percent plan to abstain or have yet to make up
their minds.


Le Pen warned that it would be "illusory and dangerous" to vote
for Royal as a way of punishing Sarkozy for "staging a hold-up of
our elections platform", stressing that she was "backed by the
revolutionary extreme-left" and wanted to allow illegal migrants
to be granted legal status.


"But it would also be insane to vote for a candidate who
continues to consider us as extremists and who refuses to allow
proportional representation for our millions of voters at the
national assembly," he said, a reference to Sarkozy.


The National Front has long demanded that the electoral system be
amended in France to allow the party to win seats in parliament,
from which it is currently absent.


Le Pen called on his supporters to "save their votes" for the
legislative elections that will take place in June and stage a
"legitimate revenge."

