

Veteran British yachtsman Tony Bullimore set sail from Australia
Tuesday in a bid to break the round-the-world solo sailing record
in 70 days.


The starter's gun fired at about 3:50 pm (0550 GMT) as Bullimore,
waiting since December for the right weather conditions, launched
his bid to circumnavigate the globe in his 31-metre (102-foot)
catamaran.


The 68-year-old, famous for being dramatically plucked from the
hull of his capsized yacht in the freezing Southern Ocean in
1997, told reporters he did not expect to suffer the same fate
this time.


People had overreacted to the high-seas drama during the Vendee
Globe round-the- world race that sparked a costly Royal
Australian Navy rescue and nearly claimed his life, he said.


"I have professionally raced yachts and occasionally you have a
problem. I could mention other yachtsmen that have had several
bang-ups and people think they are the greatest thing since
sliced bread," he said.


"But with me (the rescue) has stuck with me, hasn't it? People
who think back to that say 'Oh, is it going to happen again?' And
I say 'I don't think so.'"


Bullimore said that since the rescue he had sailed 120,000
nautical miles, and set two Atlantic world records.


"I have got no reason to believe what happened then will happen
all over again."


Breaking the round-the-world solo record would be "one of the
greatest things that's ever happened to me in my racing career
and life," he said. "It would be wonderful."


Bullimore will go straight down into the Southern Ocean where the
westerly winds in the Roaring Forties latitudes will push him
across the first 5,000-mile stage to Cape Horn.


He will then follow the South American coast northwards and
across the Equator from where he must pick his way through the
calms of the Doldrums and those associated with the Azores high
pressure system to round the island of Flores before returning
southwards to the Cape of Good Hope and back to Hobart.


The current record for the non-stop round-the-world solo trip is
71 days, 14 hours, 18 minutes and 33 seconds, set by Britain's
Dame Ellen Macarthur in 2005.

