

Abu Ayyub al-Masri's claimed death is only the latest in a series
of unconfirmed reports on the shadowy Egyptian leader of Al-Qaeda
in Iraq whose true role in the insurgency has never been
established.


The Iraqi interior ministry announced on Tuesday that they had
"strong" intelligence" that Masri had been killed in clashes
between insurgent groups.


But the Al-Qaeda kingpin, who has been given several different
names, had already been erroneously reported dead in October and
wounded in February.


Masri, an Egyptian, is believed to have succeeded Abu Musab al-
Zarqawi as head of one of Iraq's deadliest insurgent groups after
Zarqawi was killed in a US air strike in June 2006.


The details about Masri's real identity -- even his name-- have
been a source of debate among Iraqi and US security officials and
analysts trying to monitor the group.


Al-Qaeda, for its part, has said in Internet messages that its
new leader is one Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Muhajer, rather than the
more foreign-sounding Masri, whose name means "the Egyptian."


US officials say the two are one and the same.


Analysts believe Masri was part of a generation of Islamist
militants who carried out attacks in Egypt throughout the 1980s
and 1990s before travelling to Afghanistan and joining Al-Qaeda.


"His real name is Yussef al-Dardiri, he is around 38 years old
and he comes from Upper Egypt," Montasser al-Zayat, an Egyptian
lawyer and former member of the Islamist group Gamaa Islamiya,
told AFP last year.


According to Zayat, who says he does not know him personally,
Masri lived in the Cairo slum of Zawiya Hamra before going to
Afghanistan in the late 1980s and then on to Iraq via Iran.


Egyptian security services, however, claim to have never heard of
him.


The US military believes he is an explosives expert specialising
in the construction of car bombs, a key weapon of Iraq's Sunni
insurgency, and that he made his way to Iraq from Afghanistan
after the March 2003 invasion.


Masri and Zarqawi met in Afghanistan in 1999, added US officials,
when they were both at Al-Faruq training camp where he became an
explosives expert, a skill he would use to great effect in Iraq.


But Diaa Rashwan, a leading expert on political Islam at Cairo's
Al-Ahram Center for Strategic Studies, said he had not come
across the name. "There is no trace of such a name in the
Egyptian radical Islamic files," he said.


"The Americans have given details of his past, saying he joined
Islamic Jihad in 1982 and make him out to be one of the founders
of Al-Qaeda in Iraq without knowing his real name, which is
difficult to believe," says Rashwan.


"The Americans are eager to establish a non-Iraqi identity for
Zarqawi's successor for political reasons," said Rashwan. "They
need a symbol of international jihad (holy war) to justify their
occupation of Iraq."


In June 2006 a posting on an Al-Qaeda-linked website said Muhajer
had ordered the killing of two kidnapped American soldiers.


"We announce good news to the Islamic nation from the
battlefield... The two crusaders taken hostage have been executed
by having their throats cut," the message said.


The two US soldiers were later found south of Baghdad, their
bodies showing signs of brutal torture, according to the Iraqi
defence ministry.


In recent months, there have been indications that other more
nationalist insurgent groups have grown disaffected with Al-
Qaeda's tactics, including the large-scale attacks on Shiite
civilians.


There are unconfirmed reports of clashes between insurgent
groups, and a coalition of powerful Sunni tribes from the western
province of Anbar that was once sympathetic to the cause has
thrown its lot in with the Americans.


The US State Department posted a one million dollar reward for
information leading to Masri's arrest.

