

World crude prices steadied on Tuesday in light holiday trade as
investors weighed up another attack in the oil-producing south of
Nigeria where six foreign oil workers have been kidnapped.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
added four cents to 67.69 dollars per barrel in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, fell nine cents to 65.62 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


Trading was quiet on Tuesday with many Asian and European markets
shut for a public holiday, dealers said.


"Crude futures were almost unchanged in quiet trade ... with
Japanese and Chinese markets closed for most of the week, while
European markets (apart from London) will be shut for the May Day
holiday," said Michael Davies, analyst at the Sucden brokerage in
London.


However, traders focused on fresh supply concerns in Nigeria,
which is the world's sixth-biggest exporter, accounting for a
daily output of some 2.6 million barrels.


As many as six foreign oil workers were kidnapped on Tuesday by
unidentified gunmen in an attack on an oil facility off the coast
of the southern Bayelsa State, according to a government
official.


"This incident has once again highlighted the instability in the
region, with the country's output still below full capacity and
the most recent presidential elections have only made the
situation worse, with foreign observers saying that votes rigging
was commonplace," added Davies.


Oil industry sources in Nigeria said that six foreigners,
including four Italians and one US national, had been seized from
an oil vessel.


They said the attack happened around 4:00am (0300 GMT) and that
one Nigerian sailor was killed in the incident. There was no
immediate confirmation from the Nigerian Navy.


Crude futures had fallen Monday on world markets amid profit-
taking after sharp gains last week following news of a possible
terrorist plot in key crude producer Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


Prices had surged before the weekend after Saudi Arabia announced
it had foiled an attack on oil facilities, which was linked to
al-Qaeda.


Market attention was meanwhile starting to turn to Wednesday's
upcoming weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles in key
consumer the United States, traders said.


All eyes are on US gasoline or petrol reserves heading into the
peak-demand driving season, which kicks off at the end of May,
when many Americans take to the roads for their summer holidays.

