

Thousands of people across Russia called for higher salaries and
pensions Tuesday in May Day demonstrations that carefully avoided
criticism of the Kremlin.


Russian state television showed crowds gathered in cities from
Vladivostok to Moscow. Protestors, mostly organised by the trade
unions, Communist Party, and pro-Kremlin parties, waved balloons
and blue or red flags.


"We demand dignified work, dignified life, and dignified time
off," Mikhail Shmakov, head of the federation of independent
trade unions, said on state-run Vesti 24 television.


However, while calling on the government to ensure better living
conditions there was little expression of anger at President
Vladimir Putin.


Only minor protests organised in Moscow and Saint Petersburg by
the liberal Yabloko party and one in Moscow by the even smaller
Mui (We) youth group were likely to criticise Putin directly.


The relaxed atmosphere contrasted sharply with the violent
dispersal by riot police of two openly anti-Kremlin
demonstrations in Saint Petersburg and Moscow last month.


Under Soviet rule, May 1 was a major holiday in which organised
demonstrations celebrating international socialism took place
across the Soviet Union. The holiday has been renamed in Russia
"Spring and Labour Day".


Putin, who is to step down next year at the end of his second
term in office, has systematically tightened the Kremlin's grip
on parliament, major businesses, and the media. Opposition street
protests are rarely tolerated.


Russia's authorities, which came under widespread criticism in
the West over the break-up of the opposition marches, appear keen
to show the country still enjoys freedom of assembly.


There was even a demonstration by trade unions in Grozny, the
devastated capital of Chechnya, where police armed with
Kalashnikov rifles accompanied participants down a reconstructed
main avenue, state television showed.


The May Day demonstration was the first there since Chechnya
launched its failed independence bid following the 1991 Soviet
collapse, sparking two wars against Russian forces and the death
of an estimated 100,000 Chechens.

