

As many as six foreign oil workers were kidnapped Tuesday by
unidentified gunmen in an attack on an oil facility off the coast
of Nigeria's southern Bayelsa State, a government official said.


"There was an attack on a Chevron platform. We understand five or
six expatriate workers have been kidnapped," the secretary to the
Bayelsa state government, Godknows Igali, told AFP.


Oil industry sources said six foreigners, including four Italians
and one US national, had been seized from an oil vessel.


They said the attack happened around 4:00am (0300 GMT) and that
one Nigerian sailor was killed in the incident. There was no
immediate confirmation from the Nigerian Navy.


US sources confirmed that one American national was amongst those
kidnapped but declined to identify him. Diplomatic sources in
Lagos said the sixth person kidnapped might be a Croatian. There
was no immediate confirmation of the nationality of the four
workers thought to be Italian.


Two separate Chevron sources confirmed that the attack was
carried out on one of their facilities but said details remained
sketchy.


Other non-Chevron sources said the attackers threw dynamite on to
the platform in order to get workers to leave it and board a
security vessel before seizing them from the security vessel.


In a separate incident on Monday evening in neighbouring Rivers
state, the mother of the governor-elect Celestine Omehia was
kidnapped by an unknown militant group, a Rivers government
spokesman said Tuesday.


"The mother of the new governor was abducted last night in her
Ubima village, near Port Harcourt," Emmanuel Okah told AFP.


The Niger Oil Delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size
of Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion dollar oil and
gas industry.


The region has seen a resurgence in violent attacks on oil firms
and personnel over the past two years.


More than 100 foreign workers have been kidnapped, but were later
released, while scores of Nigerian security personnel have been
killed by militant groups or armed gangsters.


The groups claim to be fighting for a larger share of the
country's oil wealth for the local residents, but some also
demand ransoms from oil firms before hostages are released.


The past two or three weeks however, have seen a relative lull in
kidnappings.


Industry sources say the more prominent militant groups
responsible for kidnappings did not want to be blamed for
disrupting the regional, legislative and presidential elections
that have taken place over the past two weeks.


Nigeria is the world's sixth biggest exporter, accounting for a
daily output of some 2.6 milllion barrels.

