

Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez announced Monday his country's
decision to pull out of the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund, accusing them of exploiting small countries.


"I want to formalize the exit (of Venezuela) from the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and all that. We don't
need a representative there any more," he said in broadcast on
VTV state television.


The OPEC nation's leader branded the organizations "tools of US
imperialism" to exploit the less powerful.


Chavez, a leftist firebrand who has made a habit of demonizing
the US administration, was given sweeping powers in February to
govern by decree for 18 months.


"We are going to withdraw ... and let them pay back what they
took from us," he said, claiming that the organizations were "in
crisis".


"I read in the press somewhere that the IMF does not have enough
money to meet its payroll," he explained.


"We are going to withdraw before they go and rob us," he added,
issuing an order for his Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas to
begin proceedings to withdraw Venezuela from the organizations.


The IMF recently reviewed a campaign launched last September to
increase the stature and voting rights of emerging-market and
poor countries.


The United States has accused Chavez of being a destabilizing
force in Latin America. US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
said Wednesday that he was wrecking his country "economically and
politically".


Chavez also warned that if the Organization of American States
(OAS), a Washington-based pan-American organization, condemns
Caracas over a complaint by journalists at RCTV, Venezuela would
withdraw from it as well.


The Inter-American Human Rights Commission (CIDH) has sent to the
Inter-American Court in San Jose, Costa Rica, a complaint by
Radio Caracas Television's (RCTV) journalists who were beaten by
pro-government activists on April 11, 2002.


Chavez complained that the CIDH was arguing that Caracas had
violated freedom of speech.


"Let me make this official," Chavez said. "If they convict us in
the OAS or any of its bodies, Venezuela is pulling out, because
it would make no sense to be there. Why?"


Three weeks after his December re-election, the leftist leader
announced he would not renew RCTV's license, which ends May 27,
thus taking off the air the only private channel available
nationally.


Chavez has drawn condemnation from media rights groups and
protests at home for his decision to close the popular channel
which he accuses of backing a 2002 coup against him.


He has never forgiven RCTV for running cartoons and modeling
shows during the brief coup that kept him out of power for 47
hours in April 2002.


The private broadcaster and the state-owned Venezolana de
Television (VTV) are the only channels whose signals cover the
entire South American country.

