

Iraqi authorities are investigating reports that the alleged
leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq, Abu Ayyub al-Masri, has been killed
in a struggle within his own group, the interior ministry said
Tuesday.


"There is intelligence information. Some information, you know,
needs confirmation, but this information is very strong,"
interior ministry operations director Brigadier General Abdel
Karim Khalaf said.


"The clashes took place among themselves. There were clashes
within the groups of Al-Qaeda. He was liquidated by them. Our
forces had nothing to do with it," he added, in an interview on
state television.


A US military spokesman could not confirm the report.


"I hope it's true, we're checking, but we're going to be doubly
sure before we can confirm anything," said Lieutenant Colonel
Chris Garver, noting that several previous reports of Masri's
death had proved unfounded.


US officials say Masri, who is allegedly also known as Abu Hamza
al-Muhajir, is an Egyptian car bomb specialist who heads Al-
Qaeda's Iraq's subsidiary. The US State Department has put a one
million dollar bounty on his head.


Two months ago there were reports in the Iraqi media that Masri
had been wounded in a shootout with Iraqi soldiers, but these
later proved false.


Khalaf said Masri had been killed on Tuesday near Taji, a town
just north of the capital that has seen fierce combat between US
forces and Al-Qaeda.


On Tuesday, US forces were again in action near Taji "targeting
senior leaders within the Al-Qaeda in Iraq network", after
killing five militants in overnight fighting, according to a
statement from the military.


"Intelligence reports led coalition forces to targets associated
with senior Al- Qaeda leaders west of Taji Tuesday morning.
During an operation there, terrorists engaged ground forces with
small arms fire," it said.


"Coalition forces used appropriate self-defence measures and
engaged the armed men, killing five. Six suspected terrorists
were detained. Coalition forces found weapons and grenades, which
they destroyed on site."


It was not clear if the Taji clash was linked to the hunt for
Masri.

