

The World Anti-Doping Agency is considering relaxing its
regulations to give the US Anti-Doping Agency a stronger voice in
the fight against drug abuse in sports.


Dick Pound, chairman of WADA, said Monday a proposed amendment to
the World Anti-Doping Code's gag rule would make it easier for
USADA to respond publicly when it believes athletes are making
false or misleading statements about an ongoing probe.


"If something is completely nonsense where someone is challenging
evidence by saying there is no reliable test for X and there is,
then it would be nice to be able to say the test is reliable,"
Pound said on Monday.


Under the current regulations, USADA will not comment on cases
unless the athlete under investigation waives the right to
privacy.


On Sunday, American cycling hero Floyd Landis accused USADA of
using "criminal" tactics in their a case against Landis, who is
fighting to keep his 2006 Tour de France title after a positive
drug test.


Pound said the proposed changes to the World Anti-Doping Code is
on the agenda for the third World Conference on Doping in Sport
which runs from November 15-17 in Madrid, Spain.


"The consultation process started last fall," Pound said from his
home in Montreal. "We are going to decide whether or not to amend
the code. If there is stuff being made public that is
misinformation then you can decide to respond to it so the public
and athletes are not confused."


USADA, which investigates and imposes punishments on drug cheats,
declined to respond Monday to the latest allegations by Landis.


Landis said Sunday he was considering an appeal to the US
Department of Justice to investigate the use of government funds
in the adjudication of his anti- doping proceedings.


"I have every confidence that they can determine if any misuse of
federal funds and any resulting criminal activity has taken place
on the part of USADA in my case," he said.


A hearing before the arbitration panel is scheduled for May 14 in
Los Angeles.


The 31-year-old Landis could be stripped of his Tour de France
victory and given a two-year ban.


"We tried to make it transparent and hold the agency
accountable," Landis' spokesman Michael Henson said. "We have to
reserve judgment until we see what type of restrictions they
decide to lift."


Landis won the world's biggest race in dramatic fashion last
year, rebounding from a spectacular collapse on stage 16 to cap a
130 kilometre breakaway with victory on stage 17.


It was after stage 17 that one sample from the American cyclist
tested positive for elevated levels of the male sex hormone,
which is produced in the body but which also exists in a
synthetic (exogenous) form.


"It is my impression that USADA's goal is to secure a conviction
by any means available," Landis said on Sunday. "Their behaviour
is nothing short of criminal."


Landis also faces a French government probe but that has been
delayed until after the inquiry following his promise not to race
in France this year, ending any chance to defend his title.

