

LeBron James and Zydrunas Ilgauskas dominated down the stretch,
as Cleveland pulled away for a 97-90 win to complete a four-game
sweep of Washington on Monday.


The absences of all-stars Gilbert Arenas and Caron Butler were
just too much for the Wizards to overcome in the first round
National Basketball Association playoff series.


They faced long enough odds as it was, as no team in NBA history
had rallied from a 3-0 deficit to win a best-of-seven series.


James and Ilgauskas teamed up to make sure Washington did not
have a chance to make history, teamming up to help Cleveland
complete its first sweep of a playoff series in their 36-year
history.


James seemed more concerned with what the sweep means in the
immediate future for his team rather than the historical
implications.


"The most important thing is that it raises our confidence and
allows us to get a little bit of rest," James said. "It's going
to be a long, stressful and fatigueful postseason for us, so the
most rest we can get by us taking care of business tonight is
going to add to us being able to recover some of the nicks and
bruises that we might have."


The second-seeded Cavaliers trailed 67-66 entering the fourth
quarter.


James hit a three-pointer with 5:59 to play to tie the game at
77-77.


Antawn Jamison was fouled by Drew Gooden while attempting a
three-pointer and made all three free throws to give the Wizards
their last lead, 80-77, with 5:37 remaining.


Ilgauskas then scored four points in an 8-2 run that gave
Cleveland the lead for good, 85-80, with 3:23 to play.


"We have a good core when we're healthy and we'll build around
that," Washington coach Eddie Jordan said. "We've got good
character.  We've got a locker room that was solid that didn't
leave the pack early, as you say, when guys got down a little bit
and got hurt."


James and Ilgauskas combined on a pair of baskets in the final
minute to put away the game.


James started a drive from the right corner and pulled up to dump
the ball to Ilgauskas, who caught it high and scored in one
motion to make it 91-88 with 59 seconds left.


After a turnover by Jamison, Ilgauskas popped out to the left
corner after setting a screen for James, who whipped a pass to
the 7-3 centre for a deep jumper that made it 93-88 with 33
seconds remaining.


With the win, the Cavs have secured a spot in the Eastern
Conference semifinals where they will face the winner of the
series between the New Jersey Nets and Toronto Raptors.


James scored 31 points and had 11 rebounds while Ilgauskas added
20 and 19.


Jamison scored 31 points for Washington.

