

Thousands of labourers rallied across Pakistan Tuesday demanding
better wages and living conditions to mark May Day, witnesses
said.


President Pervez Musharraf in a statement vowed his government
would reform labour laws governing the welfare of workers, with a
special focus on increasing the participation of women.


Labour Minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan led a rally on wheels in the
capital in which hundreds of vehicles participated.


Musharraf said his government would introduce schemes to
accelerate investment and upgrade the vocational and technical
competence of the workforce.


According to government statistics, Pakistan has a labour
workforce of about 51 million people -- of which 14 percent is
female -- with a minimum wage of 4,500 rupees (75 US dollars) per
month.


Rising inflation, estimated at eight percent, is widely seen as
causing hardship for the working class despite impressive
economic growth in the past four years that has ranged between
seven and eight percent.


More than 4,000 workers staged a rally in the eastern city of
Lahore, where leaders accused the government of failing to
provide basic benefits for the working class.


"Millions of labourers in Pakistan are deprived of basic
facilities including health and safety cover," said Khursheed
Ahmed, secretary general of the All Pakistan Workers
Confederation.


In the southern port city of Karachi, the country's commercial
capital, labour leaders also criticised Musharraf's regime for
violating labour laws.


"This is perhaps the worst government for labourers. There is no
right of association, no regular employment left for the
workers," said Manzoor Razi, president of the Pakistan Railway
Workers Federation.


"(The) Industrial Relations Ordinance introduced by the
government is an anti- trade-union law under which the rights of
employees have been curtailed," he said.


A steel workers union leader said the government's campaign to
privatise state- owned industrial and commercial units was
detrimental to labour rights.


"Labour in Pakistan has been badly affected due to the
government's privatisation policy," said Shamshad Qureshi,
president of the Peoples Workers Union of Pakistan Steel.


The Anti-Privatisation Alliance late Monday also held a May Day
rally in Karachi carrying placards which read: "No to
Privatisation", "Go Musharraf, Go."


The All Pakistan Newspapers Employees Confederation held its
rally in Karachi demanding a wage rise.


In the central city of Multan, labourers and social workers
staged several rallies demanding social security and wage
increases.

