

Nepal's Maoists are demanding that camp conditions be improved
before they allow an agreed UN verification of former rebel
soldiers to proceed, the head of the UN peace mission said
Tuesday.


But the United Nations chief said the Maoists had no right to
delay the verification process, no matter what the reason.


"The obligation on the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) to allow
verification is unconditional. I have made it clear to the Maoist
leadership that UNMIN cannot accept its linkage to any
preconditions," Ian Martin, head of the United Nations Mission In
Nepal (UNMIN), told reporters.


As part of a landmark peace deal ending a decade of bloody civil
war late last year, the UN has completed initial registration of
former rebel soldiers, and has taken the details of 31,150
soldiers and 3,475 weapons.


A second stage is now supposed to be under way to identify
underage combatants and also those who joined Maoist ranks after
an agreed deadline in May 2006, the senior UN official said.


"I am not at all happy about this. We should have begun the
second stage of registration and verification several weeks ago,"
Martin said.


Nepal's Maoist leaders have told the UN they would not allow the
next verification stage to proceed until issues including dismal
conditions in many of the 28 camps and government cash payments
to Maoist soldiers are tackled.


There was no immediate comment from the Maoists on the UN
official's statements.


But the Maoists have long complained about conditions in the
government-funded camps, saying many have no electricity or clean
water and that the buildings will not withstand the fast-
approaching monsoon.


The UN was invited as part of last year's landmark peace deal to
monitor Maoist weapons and soldiers and assist in the holding of
elections that will shape the political future of the
impoverished Himalayan nation.


Nepal's rebels fought for 10 years to establish a communist
republic and boot out the country's 238-year-old monarchy.


Since making peace the former rebels, who were given five
ministerial portfolios in early April, said they had renounced
violence and would pursue their aims through mainstream politics.


However, the ultra leftists continue to face accusations that
they have yet to stop using violence and intimidation, and they
remain on a US list of terrorist organisations.


At least 13,000 people were killed in the "people's war" launched
by the Maoists in western Nepal in 1996.

