

A top religious official dismissed a request from Malaysia's
Chinese community to build its own mosques fearing segregation of
the country's Muslims, a report said Tuesday.


Abdul Hamid Othman, the religious adviser to Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, called on the government to disregard such
requests as there were sufficient mosques in the country for all
Muslims, the New Straits Times daily reported.


"If this is allowed by the authorities, I am afraid it will lead
to disunity and segregate Muslims in the country," he said.


Hamid said the request by Chinese Muslims for their own mosques
was unthinkable and carried wide political connotations.


"Now they want their own mosques, the next time around they will
be asking for leaders to represent their ethnic groups," he said.


Danial Hakim Boey, a Chinese-Muslim who has been trying to build
a Chinese mosque here, told AFP the issue of building a mosque
with Chinese architecture had been misinterpreted by the
authorities.


"We just want a Chinese-designed mosque. There is no reason to
have only Chinese going to the mosque, that is too partisan,"
Boey said.


"Islam is, after all, for everybody, so we can have any design
and it should reflect the universality of the religion," he said.


Boey, a practising Muslim for 13 years, chairs the Malaysian
Chinese Muslim Community in central Selangor state, where a
majority of the country's 60,000 Chinese Muslims reside.


Boey pointed out that Indian Muslims in Malaysia had their own
mosque buildings which reflected their culture.


"At the end of the day, we all pray in Arabic. We are not trying
to change anything," he said.


Boey said there was an underlying notion that Islam in Malaysia
belonged to the Malays, who are defined as Muslims in the
constitution.


"Islam is not a religion reserved for Arabs or just Malays, it is
for everybody," he said.


"Confusion arises when some Muslims who lack understanding of
Islam give a wrong interpretation," he added.


Boey's perception echoes that of an outspoken young Muslim cleric
in Malaysia, who has said the Chinese should be allowed to build
their own mosques and to preach in their own language.


"Malays assume they are the only pure Muslims, although Chinese
Muslims may have stronger faith," Mohamad Asri Zainul Abidin was
quoted by the New Straits Times as saying in February this year.


Multicultural Malaysia's almost 27 million population is made up
of 60 percent Muslim Malays, and 26 percent ethnic Chinese and 8
percent ethnic Indians. The latter two groups are mostly
Christians, Buddhists or Hindus.

