

Michael Owen capped his first team return to Newcastle United by
admitting he would "jump at the chance" of returning to the
England set-up.


Owen ended his "long and lonely" spell on the sidelines by
playing an unscheduled full 90 minutes in the Magpies' 1-0 defeat
at Reading on Monday.


Reading's victory - thanks to Dave Kitson's second goal of the
campaign - pushed them back into seventh place in the table and a
UEFA Cup place for next term.


Newcastle have just one win in their last nine matches and they
are in danger of recording their worst points haul (they have 42
with two matches remaining with 44 being their previous worst) in
their Premiership history.


However Owen's return is a major boost for the club.


The 27-year-old damaged his anterior cruciate knee ligament
during the first moments of England's 2-2 World Cup draw against
Sweden last summer and had not appeared since.


England next meet Brazil in the first international at the new
Wembley on June 1, and Owen told Sky Sports News he would be
delighted to hear from England manager Steve McClaren.


"No news - you'll have to ask Steve McClaren. I'm hopefully going
to be fine to be playing in the last two games (this season) for
Newcastle and then it's down to whether Steve McClaren picks me,"
said Owen.


"And if I'm fit and playing for Newcastle, obviously I'd jump at
the chance to play for my country. Its a fantastic honour."


Owen was making his first start for the Magpies since New Year's
Eve 2005 when he broke his metatarsal.


Having recovered from the injury, Owen is also hoping the extra
muscle he has put on his body will give him an extra edge.


"When you have an injury like this you get to start again, you
get a clean sheet of paper," he said. "We've built up everything,
I weigh a stone heavier now than when I got injured and none of
it is fat.


"Now you get to start over again. I feel a massive difference
from when I last played, I feel as though I can use my body and
be strong and win a lot of headers. I felt a different type of
player. I felt really well."


Owen admitted the recovery process was difficult, saying: "I
spent time with the rest of the lads and that kept me involved
with the squad but it is a long, lonely road back to fitness.


"You think about it and it's going to be even longer so you try
to get on with your life and try to enjoy time with your family
but you are always looking for a return date and thankfully I've
played a game now.


"The plan was to play an hour but the game went against us. We
had a couple of injuries and we needed a goal. But the physio
working with me has always said, 'don't come on as a sub, get on
and play, you can play 90 minutes now.' "It's been a long season
for all the players and I'm probably fitter than most of the lads
in our dressing room."

