

From the sleepy plains east of Paris to the gritty suburb of
Aubervilliers: two faces of France, each lined up behind one of
the rivals for the presidency, Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene
Royal.


In La Chapelle Iger, a village of 150 souls surrounded by vast
fields of cereal, rapeseed and beetroot, the right-winger Sarkozy
won more than 50 percent in the April 22 first round -- against
31 percent nationwide.


"France is in a mess. We need more discipline," said Pierre
Delepine, 66, who like many in this region of 3,000 highly-
mechanised farms, one of the powerhouses of French agriculture,
will back Sarkozy in Sunday's run-off without a doubt.


"Sarkozy wants to restore order, he wants fewer foreigners coming
to France to take advantage of our social benefits. We need
someone like him with a firm hand."


For this pensioner, who still prides himself on a national
cabinet-making award won in 1977, the 35-hour work week brought
in by a Socialist government in 2000 was the "stupidest thing
ever, a step backwards."


He approves of the 52-year-old Sarkozy, whose father is
Hungarian, as "an immigrant's son who worked his way up," unlike
Royal who he sees as typical of the Parisian elite.


In nearby Voinsles, whose 500 residents live in stone houses
clustered around a village church, farmers have gradually been
replaced by commuters fleeing high property prices in the
capital.


"People here like their peace and quiet, their independence,
their little home," says Dominique Wisniewski, a 55-year-old
manager of Polish origin.


Wisniewski says he started "at the foot of the ladder" and has
always voted on the right: "We need more spending power, for
young people to have a job and qualifications so they don't hang
about in the street burning cars."


But Jeremie, 23, a commercial farm worker who backed the centrist
Francois Bayrou in round one, will vote Sarkozy by default: Royal
"just doesn't have the stature" to be president.


Cut to Aubervilliers: a densely-populated, mostly immigrant
melting pot on the northern rim of Paris, in the Seine Saint
Denis department where the 2005 suburban riots started.


Arab women in hijab, or headscarves, African men wrapped in long
robes, restaurants with exotic names, small ads in Chinese pasted
on the walls: with its 70 nationalities, Aubervilliers is
multicultural to the core.


"Here it's hard to meet anyone who is 'French-French'," said
Nadia, a 40-year- old nurse whose family comes from Kabylie in
Algeria and who declined to give her surname.


Fired up against Sarkozy, whose tough talk on crime and
immigration made him a hate figure in areas like this -- many of
the town's 63,000 residents will be cheering on the 53-year-old
Royal in Sunday's run-off vote.


A regional president in western France, Royal scored 39 percent
here in round one, 13 points above her national score.


Despite Sarkozy's role in creating a national Muslim council and
arguing for state funding for new mosques -- an idea now dropped
-- his tough talk on immigration and national identity alienated
many of France's Muslims.


A poll last week suggested that just one percent of French
Muslims backed the right-winger in round one, compared to 64
percent for Royal.


"We don't have the vote, but our children are going to vote for
Segolene," Habiba, a Moroccan woman in her fifties, wearing long
robes and face veil, said in Arabic.


"Inch'Allah, she's going to win!" agreed her friend Fatima. "The
other one, he doesn't like Arabs."


"We're for Segolene and with God's help she will get through!"
chipped in a 31 -year-old grocery store worker, also a Muslim of
Senegalese origin.


More than a few local residents admit to being in France
illegally: horrified by Sarkozy's firm line on deporting
illegals, they warm to Royal's call to restore automatic
residency rights after 10 years in the country.


But Karim, a 23-year-old baker, fears that Royal's chances are
"marginal" and worries about her performance in a key televised
debate against Sarkozy on Wednesday.


"She risks being made to look like a fool," agreed Momo, 25, as
he puffed on a joint with a group of friends, while warning that
"if Sarkozy gets through, there'll be riots, and worse than in
2005."


Such talk -- often heard among youths in the Paris suburbs -- is
one reason why Jacqueline, a local pensioner who backed Royal in
round one, will vote Sarkozy on Sunday.


"We hear about there being riots if Sarkozy is elected -- and at
the end of the day, these young people just prove Sarkozy right."

