

Turkey's Constitutional Court was set to rule Tuesday on disputed
presidential elections that sparked a political row between the
Islamist-rooted government and the army over the country's
secular order.


The court's deputy head Hasim Kilic told reporters that its 11
members would convene at 1100 GMT to discuss the case, while the
court's president Tulay Tugcu said it was planning to announce
its verdict later Tuesday.


The court was petitioned by the main opposition Republican
People's Party (CHP) after parliament held a first round of
voting Friday to elect the next president.


Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist and the
candidate for the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), is
the only contender.


Within hours of the vote in which Gul narrowly missed being
elected, the army said in a statement that it was ready to act to
protect the secular order.


In response, the government sharply reminded the army that it was
under civilian orders and Gul said he would not withdraw from the
race.


The secularists, which include the army, suspect the AKP of
having an Islamist agenda and fear that the influence of Islam
will grow and threaten the republic's secular order if Gul is
elected.


Gul's wife wears the Islamic headscarf, seen as a symbol of
political Islam, and he was once a member of a party outlawed for
Islamist activities.


The CHP, which opposes Gul's candidacy, is arguing that Friday's
vote should be cancelled because there were not enough lawmakers
in the 550-seat assembly to make it legal.


It argues that the constitution requires the attendance of at
least 367 lawmakers, or a two-thirds majority, in the first round
of voting. According to parliament minutes, 361 lawmakers
attended Friday's vote.


The AKP argues that the usual quorum of 184 suffices and it has
condemned the CHP's challenge as political manoeuvring.


Media reports said the court's rapporteur had recommended its
members reject the opposition demand to cancel the vote. The
recommendation is not binding.


If the court rules that Friday's vote was in order, parliament
will hold a second round of voting on Wednesday in which Gul will
likely fail once again to garner the required 367 votes to become
the president.


However, he is almost certain to be elected in the third round of
voting on May 9 when an absolute majority of 276 votes will
suffice.


The AKP was left with 351 seats Tuesday after a lawmaker resigned
over the crisis triggered by Gul's nomination, parliamentary
sources said.


If the Constitutional Court rules in favour of the opposition,
general elections could be called within 45 to 90 days.


The opposition and an overwhelming section of the media, non-
governmental organisations and pressure groups have been
clamouring for early general elections as the only way to end the
crisis.


In his monthly address to the nation broadcast on national
television and radio, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan called
on Turks late Monday to remain united in pursuing the country's
remarkable economic effort, but made no mention of the political
crisis.


"My fellow citizens: union, unity and solidarity are our most
important needs," he said. "Turkey has a great need for this
unity."


His call came a day after more than a million people took to the
streets in Istanbul against the AKP and in favour of secularism.
It was the second such demonstration in two weeks.


The AKP sprung from a banned Islamist party but says it has
disavowed those roots and is now committed to secular principles.


Many in Turkey question its change of heart, citing its
unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery, restrict alcohol
sales and lift a ban on Islamic headscarves in government
offices.

