

Veteran British yachtsman Tony Bullimore set sail from Australia
Tuesday in a bid to break the around-the-world solo sailing
record.


The starter's gun fired at about 3.50 pm local time (0550 GMT),
launching Bullimore on an attempt to sail 27,000 nautical miles
in a record time of 70 days in his 31-metre (102-foot) catamaran,
the Doha 2006.


A crowd of some 40 people waved farewell from the Tasmanian state
capital, Hobart, as Bullimore finally headed for open water and
the start line, after waiting since December for optimum weather
conditions.


But race starter and official commissioner of records Barry
Shepperd expressed concern that the start was later in the day
than planned, saying 70-knot winds were expected Tuesday night.


"His weather router Lee Bruce told him to get on the water as
quickly as he can today to fit in with the weather pattern, and
I'm afraid he is going to get a lot of wind tonight," said
Shepperd.


"It's a shame really because he's going to miss his weather
window. Tony is a very experienced sailor, but that boat is
awfully big and I don't feel that it is rigged suitably for
single-handed sailing."


The current record for the non-stop, around-the-world solo trip
is 71 days, 14 hours, 18 minutes and 33 seconds, set by Britain's
Dame Ellen MacArthur in 2005.


The 68-year-old Bullimore, famous for being dramatically plucked
from the hull of his capsized yacht in the freezing Southern
Ocean in 1997, told reporters before setting off that he did not
expect to suffer the same fate this time.


People had overreacted to the high-seas drama during the Vendee
Globe around- the-world race that sparked a costly Royal
Australian Navy rescue and nearly claimed his life, he said.


"I have professionally raced yachts and occasionally you have a
problem. I could mention other yachtsmen that have had several
bang-ups and people think they are the greatest thing since
sliced bread," he said.


"But with me (the rescue) has stuck with me, hasn't it? People
who think back to that say 'Oh, is it going to happen again?' And
I say 'I don't think so'."


Bullimore said that since the rescue he had sailed 120,000
nautical miles and set two Atlantic world records.


"I have got no reason to believe what happened then will happen
all over again."


Breaking the around-the-world solo record would be "one of the
greatest things that's ever happened to me in my racing career
and life," he said. "It would be wonderful."


Bullimore will go straight down into the Southern Ocean, where
the westerly winds in the Roaring Forties latitudes will push him
across the first 5,000-mile stage to Cape Horn.


He will then follow the South American coast northwards and
across the Equator, from where he must pick his way through the
calms of the Doldrums and those associated with the Azores high
pressure system, to round the island of Flores before returning
southwards to the Cape of Good Hope and back to Hobart.

