

The French presidential election spotlight turned Tuesday on far-
right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, whose four million voters could
tip the balance in favour of Nicolas Sarkozy in this weekend's
vote.


Le Pen, who was knocked out of the race in the first round of
voting, was due to give his instructions on how to vote in
Sunday's run-off ballot during a speech at his National Front
party's traditional May 1 parade.


The 78-year-old former paratrooper has expressed contempt for
both the rightwing frontrunner Sarkozy and the socialist Segolene
Royal, and many commentators say he will probably refuse to
endorse either candidate.


But the majority of his voters -- 61 percent according to a poll
published Tuesday -- were seen as likely to plump for Sarkozy.
The Ipsos poll said 15 percent would pick Royal.


During the campaign Le Pen accused Sarkozy of stealing his
thunder with his tough stance on immigration and law and order,
and Sarkozy's left-wing critics likewise accused him of pandering
to the extreme right.


"Paradoxically we were the victors on the ideological front,
(but) we have provisionally lost on the electoral front," Le Pen,
who shocked France and the world by qualifying for round two in
the last presidential vote, said Monday.


The presidential rivals were meanwhile continuing their battle
for support from the 6.8 million voters who chose the centrist
Francois Bayrou in the April 22 first round.


Bayrou has denounced Sarkozy and has been making overtures to
Royal, a former environment minister. Tuesday's Ipsos opinion
poll said 41 percent of voters who picked Sarkozy in the first
round will choose Royal on Sunday, while 32 percent will go for
Sarkozy.


The high point of the election campaign comes on Wednesday, when
Sarkozy and Royal, who wants to be France's first woman
president, face each other for a two-hour televised debate
expected to attract 20 million viewers.


Sarkozy, the son of a Hungarian immigrant, has pushed a right-
wing programme based on the themes of work and national identity
but his tough talk sparked fears he would divide rather than
unite the nation.


Royal, an army officer's daughter, has presented herself as a
nurturing mother figure and has proposed a leftist economic
programme that would keep France's generous welfare system
intact.


Both candidates come from a new generation of leaders born after
World War II, and both claim to represent a break from a
discredited past.


The pair also agree that France needs radical solutions to save
it from a huge public debt, stubbornly high unemployment and
seething discontent in the high- immigration suburbs.


Sarkozy, 52, was on the campaign trail Tuesday in the
northwestern Brittany region, while Royal was due at a May 1
Workers' Day meeting at a Paris stadium, her last big rally in
the capital before the vote.


Sarkozy said Tuesday he wanted nothing from Le Pen, that he would
talk directly to voters and "not to those who want to speak in
their name".


The former interior minister told French television he wanted to
win an "immense majority" because "I want to protect (the French)
from outsourcing, I want to control immigration, I want ... to
give them the security to which they are entitled".


Tuesday's Ipsos poll put Sarkozy at 53 percent of voting
intentions and Royal at 47 percent in the race to pick a
successor to Jacques Chirac, who steps down next month after
leading the country for 12 years.


Sarkozy has consistently led in the polls since the start of the
campaign.

