

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice heads Tuesday for a series
of meetings on Iraq, ready to open a long-awaited but "firm"
dialogue with the previously taboo regimes in Iran and Syria.


Struggling to gain some diplomatic momentum in a Middle East
roiling with crisis, Rice is widely expected to break with the
Bush administration's boycott of Tehran and Damascus during the
talks.


The meetings Thursday and Friday at the Egyptian Red Sea resort
of Sharm el- Sheikh -- one between Iraqi donors aimed at slashing
Baghdad's foreign debt and boosting reconstruction efforts and a
second on security -- will involve all Iraq's neighbors.


Also included are the five permanent UN Security Council members
plus leaders of the United Nations, European Union, Canada,
Germany and Japan.


But all eyes will be on Rice to see if she finally takes the leap
and meets directly with her Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr
Mottaki, for the highest level substantive discussions between
the two nations since Washington broke off relations with Tehran
in 1980 over the embassy hostage crisis.


After weeks of refusing to confirm whether or not Rice would talk
to Mottaki, President George W. Bush left little doubt in remarks
Monday that his top diplomat had instructions to press ahead.


He told a news conference Rice "would be polite but firm" if she
encounters Mottaki, "reminding the representative of the Iranian
government that there is a better way forward for the Iranian
people."


The US accuses Iran of a litany of misbehavior, from trying to
develop nuclear weapons to supporting anti-US and sectarian
violence in Iraq and violent extremists in Lebanon and among the
Palestinians.


US officials have insisted that any US-Iran discussions at Sharm
el-Sheikh will be strictly limited to Iraq-related issues,
leaving the thorniest issue of Tehran's nuclear program for a
separate, multilateral negotiating track.


Rice has also not ruled out making her first ouverture to her
counterpart from Syria, which Washington also accuses of
supporting Iraqi insurgents and other "terrorists" around the
region.


The latest US government terrorist report, issued Monday, ranked
Iran and Syria as the two top "state sponsors of terrorism."


Yet the Bush administration has been under intense pressure at
home and abroad to engage directly with both governments in order
to stabilize Iraq and end the costly US occupation of the
country.


The EU's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, last week publicly
called on Washington to "open a channel of communication with
Iran," including on the nuclear question.


The issue was discussed Monday in Washington during a US-EU
summit, said a senior EU source involved in the talks and who
said Rice appeared determined to at least tentatively end the
silent treatment of Iran.


"It will not be a formal meeting, it will be a first contact,"
the source said on condition of anonymity because the summit
talks were confidential.


Rice's special adviser on Iraq, David Satterfield, insisted
Monday that any discussions with the Iranians would steer clear
of Tehran's suspected nuclear weapons program.


If nuclear issue comes up, he said, "she will refer that issue to
the very qualified hands and channel of Javier Solana" -- who has
been handling talks with Iran on behalf of the permanent Security
Council members plus Germany.


Washington insists it will only join nuclear negotiations with
Iran if Tehran first complies with multiple Security Council
resolutions demanding it freeze a uranium enrichment program many
believe is a cover for developing a nuclear bomb.


Iran insists the program is aimed only at producing fuel for
nuclear power stations, an activity permitted under the nuclear
non-proliferation treaty.

