

Japan's first "baby hatch," where parents can drop off unwanted
infants anonymously, was installed at a hospital in southern
Japan Tuesday, despite opposition from the conservative national
government.


The baby hatch, modelled on the "Babyklappe" in use in Germany,
was built at the Jikei Hospital in Kumamoto, some 900 kilometres
(560 miles) southwest of Tokyo.


Called "the cradle of storks," it was set up on the wall of the
lobby at the Roman Catholic hospital like a post box.


"I hope parents have the courage to consult us about their
babies," the director of the hospital, Taiji Hasuda told
reporters, describing the hatch as a "last resort."


The system, said to be common in medieval Europe, was revived in
1996 by a Christian group in Germany.


The hatch has a door, 50 centimetres (20 inches) by 60
centimetres (24 inches), with a drawing of two storks carrying a
baby and a message reading, "Please leave something with the
baby."


When the door is opened, a surveillance camera is activated and a
nurse station is alerted by an alarm. There is an intercom next
to the door to encourage parents to contact hospital staff.


The hospital plans to make the hatch available for use from May
10.


The city of Kumamoto approved the hospital's baby hatch plan on
April 5 after deciding it did not violate any laws.


"Now the system has been all set up as far as the hardware is
concerned," Kumamoto mayor Seishi Kouyama told reporters, adding
that he also wanted procedures to be finalised to ensure the
safety of babies.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has campaigned for Japan to return
to "family values," said in February he felt "very strong
resistance" to the idea, arguing it would discourage parental
responsibility.


But advocates say the baby hatch, if it becomes a trend, could
help boost the birth rate in Japan, where abortion is widely
accepted and adoption outside of extended families is rare.


Japan's population has been shrinking since 2005 as more young
people choose to put off marriage. Out-of-wedlock births are
mostly taboo in Japan.

