

Israelis clamoured for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to resign as
his ruling coalition began to fray on Tuesday after a government
probe blasted his leadership for serious failure in the Lebanon
war.


As one cabinet minister quit and newspapers shrieked for Olmert
to follow suit over a scathing interim report into the conflict,
party faithful rallied around and commentators warned he could
yet ride out the political storm.


The prime minister "has lost the trust of the people and should
resign immediately," said minister without portfolio Eitan Cabel
announcing his own resignation from the coalition cabinet as the
first casualty.


"Following the publication of this report, I cannot remain in a
government led by Ehud Olmert," the senior Labour party
politician said.


"A Gun to His Head" and "He Needs To Go" screamed headlines in
the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot daily. "Olmert on His Way Out,"
predicted tabloid rival Maariv, while the liberal Haaretz settled
for "Tightening the Noose".


A poll conducted by public radio found that 69 percent of the
Israeli public thinks the prime minister should resign and 74
percent believe Defence Minister Amir Peretz, whom the report
said failed in his functions, should also go.


"It will be a matter of days before someone in Kadima openly
calls for Olmert to resign," said one official in the prime
minister's centrist party which heads a ruling coalition.


"The bottom line is that Ehud Olmert needs to go," wrote
commentator Nahum Barnea in one Yediot editorial.


"Because if after a report like that... Olmert continues to serve
as prime minister, there will probably never be any personal
accountability here."


The devastating conflict, called the Second Lebanon War in
Israel, lasted 34 days and killed more than 1,200 Lebanese,
mostly civilians, and more than 160 Israelis, most of them
soldiers, according to government figures.


Speaking late Monday, Olmert told the nation it would
inappropriate to resign but vowed his embattled government,
already reeling from a string of sex and corruption scandals,
would now focus quickly to correct the faults.


"It would be incorrect to resign and I do not intend to do so.


"There were failures by the main decision-makers with myself at
their head. Lessons must be drawn. Faults, and they are many,
must be corrected... I intend to act in order to correct
everything that needs correcting," he said.


Weakened by the war and a string of corruption scandals
implicating him and senior members of his government, Olmert's
ratings have sunk to an historic low with just two percent of
Israelis trusting him, according to opinion polls.


Political studies professor Efraim Inbar said, however, the big
question was whether the momentum for the prime minister to
resign would reach such a frenzy that would make it impossible
for him to stay in power.


"Basically support for his government is being eroded but he is a
good political operator and we'll see if he weathers the
political storm," he said.


Inbar suggested that many Israelis would wait until the retired
judge Eliyahu Winograd published his final report, expected by
the end of the year, with apetite for new elections weak among
Olmert's coalition.


Olmert controls a 78-strong coalition in the 120-seat parliament,
the economy is strong, the Israeli public has been hitherto
reluctant to protest en masse and the prime minister well known
for his political acumen.


In the immediate fallout at least, Kadima ministers warned that a
resignation and possible early elections would detract from the
government's job of rectifying the mistakes ahead of the full
report.


Olmert's ability to hold on and ride out the storm could hinge
largely on public reaction. One sizeable demonstration at least
is being planned in Israel's commercial capital in Tel Aviv on
Thursday.


Monday's partial report accused Olmert of "serious failure in
exercising judgement, responsibility and prudence," of acting
"hastily" and personally contributing to "over-ambitious" and
unfeasible war aims.


The Lebanon war failed to achieve Israel's two main aims of
retrieving two captured soldiers or stopping Hezbollah from
firing more than 4,000 rockets that sent a million Israelis
fleeing the north and killed dozens of civilians.

