

Iran on Tuesday played down expectations ahead of a possible
encounter between its foreign minister and US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice this week, saying the idea of negotiations was
"not serious" at the moment.


"The question of negotiations with the United States is not
serious," government spokesman Gholam Hossein Elham said,
according to the Mehr news agency.


"So long as the United States does not renounce its attitude and
oppressive and satanic vision, the problems will not be solved,"
he added.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki will be attending the
international conference on Iraq's security in the Egyptian Red
Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3-4 after Tehran overcame
its initial reluctance and decided to attend.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will be representing
Washington, building expectations of bilateral talks between the
two top diplomats that would be the first such since the United
States broke off diplomatic relations in 1980.


Washington has not ruled out the idea of Rice meeting Mottaki for
talks on the sidelines of the conference but Tehran has so far
refused to say what its position on the issue is.


"Iran is participating in the Sharm el-Sheikh conference to help
the Iraqi government and to promote the departure of foreign and
American forces," Elham said.


Elham's comments do not appear to rule out the idea of a meeting
between Mottaki and Rice but do show that Tehran has no
expectations that such an encounter could deal with wide-ranging
problems in full negotiations.


"To negotiate with a government that has the legitimacy, power
and strength of the Islamic republic and solve the problems in
Iraq, the United States has to change its attitudes and methods,"
he warned.


The two sides remain at loggerheads over Iran's nuclear
programme, which Washington says hides an atomic weapons drive.
Tehran insists it only wants to produce energy.


The United States has said it is only prepared to have full
negotiations with Iran if Tehran suspends uranium enrichment,
something Tehran has refused to do. Iran says it is ready for
talks but without preconditions.


US President George W. Bush said Rice would be "polite but firm"
if she encounters Mottaki at the conference but warned against
expecting any breakthrough between the two foes.


If Mottaki and Rice meet, it will be the first such contact since
then Iranian foreign minister Kamal Kharazi and US secretary of
state Colin Powell were seated next to each other by their
Egyptian hosts at dinner at a similar Iraq conference in November
2004.

