

Cuba's communist government has summoned workers to mark May Day
on the march, amid speculation President Fidel Castro might make
a first public appearance since undergoing major surgery nine
months ago.


A newspaper article he released late Monday helped feed rumors
that Castro, 80, might address the holiday's usually huge crowds.
In 48 years in power, Fidel Castro has missed May Day
celebrations just twice, both times because he was out of the
country.


Under the headline "It is time for an energy revolution right
now," Castro addressed US-Brazilian cooperation on biofuels, and
urged that the issue be discussed on International Workers' Day.


"Insatiable in its demand, the (US) empire has called on the
world to produce biofuels to free the United States from
dependence on imported oil," Castro wrote in the Communist Party
newspaper Granma.


"Nothing is stopping US and European capital from financing
biofuels. They could even give the funds to Brazil and Latin
America.


"And the United States, Europe and other industrialized countries
would save more than 140 billion dollars every year, with no
concern whatsoever for the fallout in terms of climate change and
hunger, which will affect developing countries the most.


"They will always have enough money left over for biofuels and
buying at any price whatever food is available in the global
market."


Castro also warned of a global "risk of a different sort" in the
form of an economic recession in the US.


"In recent days the dollar has seen record breaking losses in
value. Most countries hold their hard currency reserves in that
currency and in US bonds," he said.


Among other things, Castro called for replacement of incandescent
lights with fluorescent bulbs, and massive replacement of
domestic and commercial systems using older technologies that
require two to three times more energy than new systems.


"Tomorrow May 1 is a good day to have these thoughts go out to
the workers, and all of the world's poor, along with a protest
against something incredible and humiliating that has taken
place: the release of a monster of terrorism," Castro added,
referring to Luis Posada Carriles.


The Cuban-born Venezuelan former CIA operative, wanted by Cuba
and Venezuela for the deadly downing of a Cuban jet, was freed on
bond in Texas last month.


Castro did not say whether he might attend May Day events in
Havana. If he did, it could be his first public appearance since
July 26 -- a day before intestinal surgery and just before his
July 31 temporary handover of power to his brother, Raul Castro,
75.


Earlier Cuba's influential National Assembly speaker Ricardo
Alarcon said he could neither confirm nor deny speculation Fidel
Castro would be at a planned massive rally at Havana's Revolution
Square.


"I haven't the slightest idea," he said.


Castro ally President Evo Morales of Bolivia had no doubt the
veteran revolutionary would use the opportunity to formally
resume his functions as head of state.


"I am certain that on May 1, comrade Fidel will resume his role
leading Cuba and Latin America," Morales said on Saturday.


Cuban authorities have repeatedly said Fidel Castro was
recovering well, but have not said whether he would appear at
Tuesday's celebrations, or when he might resume the presidency
formally.


"If it is possible, he'll be there, and if it is not, he won't,"
Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez said over the weekend.


Fidel Castro's health is treated as a national security matter by
Cuba's government, the only one-party communist regime in the
Americas, which has offered little detail on his condition in the
past nine months.

