

East Timor presidential candidate Jose Ramos-Horta was accused
Tuesday of manipulating Australian troops in the troubled nation
for political advantage.


Parliament speaker Francisco Guterres made the claims against
Ramos-Horta, who is also the prime minister, as the campaign for
president of the tiny nation intensified.


The men will contest a runoff vote for the top job next week
after both failed to win a majority in the April 9 election.


The poll was the first for the former Portugese colony since it
gained independence in 2002 after 24 years of Indonesian
occupation and a period of UN stewardship.


Australia has led foreign peacekeepers patrolling East Timor for
almost a year to restore order, after gang violence left 37 dead
and forced 150,000 to flee their homes.


Guterres said Ramos-Horta had asked the Australian troops to call
off their hunt for renegade soldier Major Alfredo Reinado in
return for securing the crucial political backing of the
opposition Democrat Party.


"Ramos-Horta publicly called for a halt to the ISF (International
Stability Force) action against Reinado so he could make an
electoral deal with Reinado's supporters in the Democrat Party,"
said Guterres in a statement.


"This is a blatant attempt to manipulate the ISF in order to win
votes."


"Ramos-Horta has no power under the constitution to act on such
matters unilaterally, not as prime minister and not as
president."


Elite Australian troops have attempted to capture Reinado, blamed
for some of last year's violence, and stormed one of his hideouts
last month killing four supporters.


The hunt has triggered protests, mostly among young people who
support the fugitive leader. The Democrat Party, which finished
third in the April 9 election, polled well among Reinado
supporters.


Ramos-Horta, who will step down as premier, was not immediately
available for comment. But he has said he will move to have the
hunt called off in favour of peace talks with the rebel.


The Timorese government gave the Australians the green light to
capture Reinado, who has been calling for face-to-face talks
after refusing to surrender to foreign troops.

