

Riot police fired into the air and clashed with protesters in
Macau while Turkish security forces deployed tear gas and water
cannons in Istanbul as May Day rallies turned violent Tuesday.


In rare scenes of civil unrest, police in the southern Chinese
enclave of Macau opened fire with what were thought to be starter
pistols after the crowd of more than 1,000 broke through police
cordons lining the march route.


Officers scuffled with demonstrators protesting about labour
shortages and conditions who then marched towards government
buildings before being penned back.


There was also May Day trouble in Turkey's main city Istanbul,
where police arrested more than 100 people, including trade union
leaders.


Public transport was paralysed in the city of more than 12
million as the authorities blocked roads, cancelled ferry
services and closed metro stations to prevent protesters defying
a ban on demonstrations.


Union leaders later managed to strike a deal with police for a
small group of demonstrators to march on central Taksim Square.


Much of the global political focus, however, was on whether
Cuba's ailing leader Fidel Castro would make his first public
appearance at May Day events since he underwent major surgery
nine months ago.


In Macau, the protest started peacefully with demonstrators
calling on the government to implement laws to reduce the number
of illegal workers flooding into the enclave to cash in on a
recent casino-led economic boom.


But the mood soured and witnesses said they saw police dragging
several protesters from the crowd by their hair. Another was seen
clutching a facial wound.


There were also reports police had fired live rounds.


"I know what a starter pistol sounds like and they were not
firing blanks," said lawmaker Jose Pereira Coutinho.


Security forces across Asia and other parts of the world,
including Turkey, had braced for violence at May Day rallies
often used as a vehicle for protest.


In Manila, riot police fanned out as 5,000 people waving red
banners with the communist gold hammer and sickle were blocked
from marching on the palace of President Gloria Arroyo.


They faced off with police for more than an hour before heading
off, waving red flags and demanding Arroyo's resignation.


In 2001, supporters of deposed populist president Joseph Estrada
used the occasion to march on the palace in what degenerated into
the worst rioting in Manila since the fall of dictator Ferdinand
Marcos in 1986.


In Thailand, about 10,000 workers marched through the centre of
the capital, Bangkok, railing against the military-backed
government which took power after a coup last September and
demanding an immediate return to democracy.


Security forces including riot police armed with assault rifles,
clubs and electric prods massed outside government offices and
main roads in Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh, snarling traffic in
front of parliament.


Interior ministry spokesman Khieu Sopheak said "because of the
holiday ... terrorists or other offenders might cause trouble so
we have to be on alert."


During the morning, the only demonstration seen was a group of
fewer than 100 labour representatives asking for wage increases
for garment workers and a curb in violence against union leaders.


Tens of thousands of workers assembled across Indonesia and
30,000 police deployed in Jakarta in case of trouble, a police
spokesman told AFP.


"As labourers we have to commemorate labour day because the
government does not care for our welfare," said chemical factory
worker Parsidi.


Protesters accuse the government of President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono and Vice President Jusuf Kalla of allowing foreign
companies to strip the country of resources and exploit local
workers.


In Russia, thousands of people rallied from Vladivostok to Moscow
demanding higher salaries and pensions but steered clear of
criticising the Kremlin -- a relaxed mood in contrast with the
violent dispersal of two openly anti-Kremlin protests last month.


Precious little was said in the Chinese media about Labour Day,
apart from an editorial in the People's Daily hailing the
egalitarian principles on which communist China was built.


Instead, the big crush was at railway stations and airports as
hundreds of millions of people began a week-long holiday.


The holiday counts as one of China's three big "Golden Weeks,"
and some 150 million Chinese were expected to travel, at least
one million of them through Beijing's International Airport.

