

Violent clashes marred massive May Day rallies around the world
Tuesday, with riot police firing warning shots to disperse
protestors in Istanbul and Macau, while hundreds were taken into
custody.


The traditional day of workers' solidarity was marked with widely
varying turnouts, from several hundred Iranians who took to the
streets of Tehran to demand better working conditions, to 100,000
Italian union activists who marched in Turin.


Much of the global political focus was on whether Cuba's ailing
leader Fidel Castro would make his first public appearance at May
Day events since he underwent major surgery nine months ago.


And there was an historic rally in South Korea, when workers from
the two Koreas held the first joint May Day celebrations to call
for the reunification of their divided homeland.


In Istanbul, police fired shots in the air and used tear gas and
water cannon as they fought pitched battles Tuesday with left-
wing demonstrators intent on holding a banned rally in one of the
city's central squares.


Istanbul Governor Muammer Guler said more than 580 people had
been detained, including members of "illegal organisations." He
did not elaborate.


Public transport was paralysed in the sprawling city of more than
12 million, where tensions are already running high between the
army and government over a disputed presidential election.


The authorities had banned marchers from accessing Taksim Square
to mark the 30th anniversary there of "Bloody May Day" -- when 34
people died after unknown gunmen fired on a peaceful crowd
triggering mass panic.


In rare scenes of civil unrest in the southern Chinese enclave of
Macau, police also fired warning shots with what were thought to
be starter pistols after a crowd of more than 1,000 broke through
police cordons lining a May Day march route.


The protest had started peacefully with demonstrators calling for
a reduction in the number of illegal workers flooding into the
enclave.


But the mood soured and witnesses said they saw police dragging
several protesters from the crowd by their hair. Another was seen
clutching a facial wound.


In Manila, riot police fanned out as 5,000 people waving red
banners with the communist gold hammer and sickle were blocked
from marching on the palace of President Gloria Arroyo.


They faced off with police for more than an hour before moving
away, waving red flags and demanding Arroyo's resignation.


In 2001, supporters of deposed populist president Joseph Estrada
used the occasion to march on the palace in what degenerated into
the worst rioting in Manila since the fall of dictator Ferdinand
Marcos in 1986.


In Thailand, about 10,000 workers marched through the centre of
the capital, Bangkok, railing against the military-backed
government which took power after a coup last September and
demanding an immediate return to democracy.


Tens of thousands of people across Russia called for higher
salaries and pensions in demonstrations that for the most part
carefully avoided criticism of the Kremlin.


Russian state television showed crowds gathering in cities from
Vladivostok to Moscow with demonstrators, mostly organised by the
trade unions, Communist Party, and pro-Kremlin parties, waving
multi-coloured balloons and blue or red flags.


In Turin, around 100,000 people turned out for a rally that began
with a minute's silence for all those workers who had died at
their place of work.


"We demand zero tolerance when it comes to deaths and injuries in
the workplace," said union leader Guglielmo Eoifani.


Precious little was said in the Chinese media about Labour Day,
apart from an editorial in the People's Daily hailing the
egalitarian principles on which communist China was built.


In the southern South Korean city of Changwon, some 2,000
workers, including 60 from North Korea, waved "unification flags"
during a special rally.


It was the first time since the 1950-1953 Korean War that North
Korean workers had visited South Korea for the annual labour
festival.


Cuba's communist government summoned workers to mark May Day on
the march, amid speculation that Castro might appear.


A newspaper article released by the ailing leader late Monday
helped feed rumors that he might address the holiday's usually
huge crowds.


In 48 years in power, Castro, now 80, has missed May Day
celebrations just twice, both times because he was out of the
country.

