

Cuban President Fidel Castro issued his fourth news article late
Monday in the nine months he has been recovering from intestinal
surgery, hours before May Day events get under way.


Under the headline "It is time for an energy revolution right
now," Castro, 80, addressed US-Brazilian cooperation on biofuels,
and urged that the issue be discussed on International Workers'
Day.


"Insatiable in its demand, the empire has called on the world to
produce biofuels to free the United States from dependence on
imported oil," Castro wrote in the Communist Party newspaper
Granma.


"Nothing is stopping US and European capital from financing
biofuels. They could even give the funds to Brazil and Latin
America.


"And the United States, Europe and other industrialized countries
would save more than 140 billion dollars every year, without any
concern whatsoever for the fallout in terms of climate change and
hunger, which will affect developing countries the most," Castro
said.


"They will always have anough money left over for biofuels and
buying at any price whatever food is available in the global
market."


Among other things, Castro called for a wholesale replacement of
incandescent lights with fluorescent bulbs, and massive
replacement of domestic and commercial systems using older
technologies that require two to three times more energy than new
systems.


Castro did not say whether he might attend May Day events in
Havana. If he did, it could be his first public appearance since
July 26 -- a day before intestinal surgery and just before his
July 31 temporary handover of power to his brother, Raul Castro,
75.


"Tomorrow May 1 is a good day to have these thoughts go out to
the workers, and all of the world's poor, along with a protest
against something incredible and humiliating that has taken
place: the release of a monster of terrorism," Castro added,
referring to Luis Posada Carriles.


The Cuban-born Venezuelan former CIA operative, wanted by Cuba
and Venezuela for the downing of a Cuban jet in 1976 which killed
73 people, was freed on bond in Texas last month.


A fierce opponent of Castro, Posada Carriles was convicted in
Venezuela in 1976 of masterminding the downing of the Cuban jet
off Barbados, but escaped from prison in 1985.


He was sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a 2000 bomb
plot to assassinate Castro, and was pardoned four years later.


Posada Carriles was detained by US immigration officials in May
2005 for entering the United States illegally.


He was released on a 350,000-dollar bond on April 19, pending the
May 11 start of his trial.


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles worked for
the CIA from 1965 to June 1976. He reportedly helped the US
government ferry supplies to the Contra rebels who waged a bloody
campaign to topple the socialist Sandinista government in
Nicaragua in the 1980s.

