

Hundreds of Iranians took part on Tuesday in a demonstration in
Tehran to mark labour day, accusing President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's government of failing to improve their working
conditions, the labour news agency Ilna reported.


The workers converged on a stadium in central Tehran in the
officially sanctioned demonstration to mark May Day but were
dispersed by anti-riot police when the march moved out into the
street, witnesses said.


"Some 600 workers demonstrated at the exit to the stadium and
shouted slogans against the minister of labour," Mohammad
Jahromi, the semi-official agency said.


"Incapable minister. Resign!", "Government, parliament, stop your
slogans and act," and "Death to the oppressors", the protestors
shouted, according to the agency.


Scuffles followed when anti-riot police dispersed the
demonstration as people moved into the street outside the
stadium, just south of Haft-e Tir Square, a major Tehran traffic
nexus.


Witnesses told AFP that they hoisted a coffin symbolising their
demands which the police then tried to break but the
demonstration dispersed without any major clashes.


State television's main afternoon news bulletin also reported
that hundreds of people took part in the march and broadcast
comments from unnamed workers complaining about their conditions.


"We are pursuing the workers' legal demands. We expect the
officials and the government to follow up on our demand," said
one, while another fumed: "I have worked for 21 years and am now
unemployed, what should I do?"


"This is the workers' situation: no job security, very low wages
and numerous problems," said a third man.


Low-earning workers and civil servants in Iran have been
especially hard hit by a sharp rise in prices of staple foods and
services over the past months.


Ahmadinejad rose to power in elections two years ago on the back
of a wave of support from poorer sector of society generated by
his promises to make all Iranians benefit from the country's oil
wealth.


But the country continues to be dogged by low salaries and
unemployment for its overwhelmingly youthful population.


A member of parliament's social commission, Moussal-Reza Servati,
said earlier this week that the number of Iranians living under
the poverty line had increased by 13 percent to 12 million --
more than one in seven people.


The demonstration came after hundreds of teachers held three
protests outside Iran's parliament in April, resulting in the
arrest of a dozen education union leaders from Tehran and the
central city of Hamedan.


Iran's teachers are due to mark their national day on Wednesday
and Ahmadinejad at a ceremony in Tehran called on the education
ministry "to remove teachers' problems", state television
reported.

