

Recruiting "high-caliber" people is key to a new technology-heavy
training plan adopted by China's military as it seeks to cope
with the challenges of the future, state media said Tuesday.


The plan would ensure that the men and women commanding
tomorrow's army were "brighter tacticians, better educated and
adept at commanding the highest-tech weaponry", the China Daily
said, citing the defence ministry.


"The military will establish a new personnel system which
combines basic and continuing education, academic and military
education, and domestic and overseas training," said Shi Baohua,
the military's deputy chief of personnel.


Shi was making the remarks in a briefing on the People's
Liberation Army attended by military attaches from more than 40
countries, according to the paper.


He introduced a project for personnel development which will run
until 2020, aiming to produce "officers capable of building
informationalised armed forces (and) staff officers proficient in
planning military operations."


It also foresees "scientists capable of exploring key
technologies in weaponry and equipment, technical specialists
with thorough knowledge of hi-tech weaponry performance and NCOs
(non-commissioned officers) with expertise in using weapons and
equipment at hand."


Until very recently, the Chinese army was routinely dismissed as
hampered by low education and an adherence to tactics and
technology that had changed little over the decades, but this is
now changing.


The PLA now has more than 10,000 personnel with doctorates or
master's degrees, and it has adopted a system ensuring officers
are adequately educated before being promoted, the paper said.


The military has 67 educational institutions, while 112 regular
institutions of higher learning also undertake the task of
training defence students, according to a defence white paper
published in December last year.


In addition, it had built more virtual laboratories, digital
libraries and digital campuses to provide distance learning and
online teaching and training, the white paper said.


"In graduate education, the focus has shifted from academic-
oriented to practice-oriented, from emphasis on quantity to
emphasis on quality," it said.


At the same time as China seeks to improve the educational
standards of its rank and file, it is also spending vastly more
on its military than before.


China's military budget has grown by leaps and bounds in recent
years, and is expected to rise 17.8 percent in 2007 to 350.9
billion yuan (about 45 billion dollars), according to data
released in March.


The double-digit increases in recent years has caused
considerable concern abroad, but China has responded by saying it
partly needs the money to raise salaries for its men and women in
uniform.


This in turn is needed in order to make a military career more
attractive at a time when private-sector jobs can be vastly more
remunerative, observers have said.

