

Defenders Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand have given Manchester
United a boost by joining the squad for their crunch Champions
League semi-final decider away to AC Milan.


Both players have returned from recent injury setbacks, and flew
out with Sir Alex Ferguson's squad early on Tuesday.


Ferguson has yet to decide whether to name the duo in his line-up
for the crunch second leg at the San Siro, which United will
begin with a 3-2 lead from the first leg at Old Trafford a week
ago.


But he knows the presence of Vidic and Ferdinand could be
invaluable as they look to preserve their narrow lead.


Ferdinand aggravated a groin injury against Middlesbrough 10 days
ago and Vidic has not played since breaking a collarbone in the
Premiership triumph over Blackburn on March 31.


However, Ferguson was optimistic enough over both players to name
them in his travelling party.


"It is too early to say whether they will play," said the Scot.


"They will travel and we will assess the situation after training
tonight."


With Patrice Evra suspended, the odds are at least one of them
will play, allowing Gabriel Heinze to switch into his favoured
left-back role.


Louis Saha could be on the bench despite his recent hamstring
problems although the absence of Gary Neville will only fuel
speculation the United skipper's ankle injury will rule him out
for the season.


Three men: Heinze, Cristiano Ronaldo and Paul Scholes - who
famously missed the 1999 Champions League final - are one caution
away from a ban, although Ferguson will hope the trio remain
fully focused on steering United to what would be only their
third European Cup final.


Twice before, in 1958 and 1969, United have fallen to Milan at
this stage of the competition. Ferguson himself has suffered
semi-final defeats against Borussia Dortmund and Bayer
Leverkusen.


But, a better statistic for United followers is that their club
have not lost a European tie after winning the first leg since
1985 and have never done so under Ferguson.

