

Tony Blair will make a statement next week on when he will stand
down as British prime minister, he said Tuesday, the 10th
anniversary of his party's landslide 1997 election victory.


"I will make my position clear next week," he said in an
interview on Britain's GMTV breakfast programme.


He also praised his likely successor, Finance Minister Gordon
Brown, saying he would make "a great prime minister".


For his part, Brown -- Blair's long-term ally turned feuding foe,
who is expected to take over as premier in July -- used a
newspaper column to heap praise on "his oldest friend in
politics".


The 53-year-old prime minister first announced that he would not
be seeking a fourth term of office in 2004, and was forced by
supporters of Brown into saying last September that he would be
gone within a year.


He has refused to name the exact date but political observers
have seen May 9 as the day Blair will announce his departure.


Power-sharing government between Catholics and Protestants in
Northern Ireland resumes the day before. Brokering the peace
between the two sides has been seen as one of Blair's greatest
achievements in office.


Blair's announcement would immediately trigger a Labour party
leadership and deputy leadership election campaign, as Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott, who is also Labour's deputy leader,
has said he will resign at the same time.


So far, two left-wing candidates have said they want to challenge
Brown, but doubts remain as to whether they can muster enough
support among Labour colleagues in parliament.


A number of candidates have declared they will run for the deputy
leadership, including Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain,
International Development Secretary Hilary Benn and Education
Secretary Alan Johnson.


In an article for The Sun tabloid under the headline "10/10
Blair's decade of achievement", Brown reflected on the prime
minister's decade in power at home and abroad.


"I am honoured to call Tony my oldest friend in politics, of
course with the inevitable ups and downs along the way, but still
the longest partnership between prime minister and chancellor for
200 years," he said.


"Honoured to have worked with him to create a Britain that is
stronger, fairer and more prosperous than that bright morning
back in 1997 when Tony first walked up Downing Street -- a
Britain which can hold its head up high in the world."


Returning the compliment -- which appeared to set aside some of
the enmity that has developed between the two men over the years
-- Blair told GMTV he would give Brown the same marks for his
stewardship of the economy.


"One of the things I very much hope will be part of the legacy of
the government is the strongest economy in the Western world
which he has been responsible for," he said.


"I have always said about him that he would make a great prime
minister and I believe that."

