

Fewer roses on a wintry Valentine's Day, less room for kids in
smaller cars and costlier holidays in the tropics: life in Norway
will become less glamorous but more climate-friendly as the
country aims to be "carbon neutral" by 2050.


As the world's leading climate change experts meet in Bangkok,
from where they are due to issue a key report Friday, Norway is
providing an example of the kind of direction some countries are
heading.


When Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg on April 19 announced
Norway's pledge to reduce CO2 emissions to zero, the Scandinavian
nation set the most ambitious climate target in the world.


The government has yet to detail the concrete measures it will
undertake to achieve the goal, but experts say changing
lifestyles are inevitable.


Norway already covers almost all of its energy needs with
hydroelectricity, a "clean" energy source, so its CO2 reductions
will have to be made elsewhere, notably in the transport sector.


Perishable foods flown around the world by airplane -- a highly
pollutant form of transportation -- could be among the first to
go in climate-conscious Norway.


"The price tags on products will have to reflect the distance
they have travelled," said Helge Drange, a scientist at the
Nansen environmental research centre.


"Roses from Africa and the Netherlands will be less affordable.
We will buy an increasing amount of local products," he said.


Because transportation is so inexpensive these days, more than
half of the fish caught off Norway in the Barents Sea and sold in
the country is sent to China to be filleted before being sent
back here for sale.


"Neither the manufacturer nor the consumer pay the true cost of
energy today," said Pierre Perbos, head of the French
environmental activist group Reseau Action Climat-France.


"The climate is paying the price. It's completely absurd that
kerosene is not taxed," he said.


Low-cost flights could also be a thing of the past, as ticket
prices will have to be increased to compensate for the CO2
emissions of each flight.


Financial incentives will encourage owners of SUVs and other
large vehicles to buy smaller, energy-efficient cars run on
hybrid engines and, eventually, hydrogen power, pending major
technological advances in the field.


Residential areas and offices will also be concentrated in the
same area for more efficient energy use and to optimize public
transport.


It remains to be seen how much of Norway's CO2 reductions will
come from measures taken within the country, how much will come
from the purchase of emission rights, and how much will come from
investments in "clean" energy projects abroad as allowed under
the Kyoto Protocol.


"The climate keeps a tally of the greenhouse gas molecules that
enter the atmosphere. It doesn't care about the sender's
address," said Helge Drange.


But the issue is sensitive -- symbolically, politically and
economically -- as attempts to reduce emissions within Norway's
borders are much costlier than financing cuts abroad.


The country is expected to emit 60 million tonnes of carbon
dioxide in 2012. At current prices -- generally seen by experts
as too low -- Norway could buy CO2 quotas to cover its emissions
for a billion euros (1.36 billion dollars) a year, according to
the European research and analysis organisation Point Carbon.


That is a drop in the bucket compared to the hundreds of billions
of dollars that Norway, one of the world's biggest oil and gas
exporters, has yielded so far from its lucrative offshore fields.


According to Frederic Hauge, the head of the Norwegian
environmental organisation Bellona, Norway has a "moral
responsibility" to develop new technologies that are out-of-reach
for other countries precisely because it has built its immense
wealth on the climate-unfriendly oil industry.


And, he notes, "there's a lot of money to be made in this
sector."

