

Indonesian rice farmers in Java and Bali must invest in hardier
crops and better water storage methods if they hope to maintain
harvests in the face of manmade climate change and weather
systems such as El Nino, according to a new study.


The warm El Nino weather system has already been shown to wreak
havoc with the region's rice production by delaying monsoon
rains, disrupting the planting of the main rice crop and
prolonging the "hungry season" before the main rice harvest.


And global warming could further complicate the situation, US
climatologists said in a paper released Monday.


The researchers predicted that that some of Indonesia's most
important rice- growing areas will experience a month-long delay
in the onset of monsoon rains by 2050, and that late summer
rainfall could drop by as much as 25 percent on average.


The predictions are based on extensive computer climate modeling
using the latest international projections of greenhouse gas
emissions.


"Most models predict that the rains will come later in Indonesia,
it will rain a little harder once the monsoon begins, and then it
will really dry up during the summer months," said Rosamond
Naylor, director of the Program on Food Security and the
Environment at Stanford University, and one of the authors of the
paper.


"So Indonesia could be looking at a much shorter rainy season,
with an almost rainless dry season in some areas, squeezing rice
farmers on both ends."


The study suggests that the "extraordinarily dry conditions" in
July, August and September could make it impossible to plant rice
and all other crops without irrigation during these months by
2050.


The researchers suggest that the farmers at greatest risk should
consider investing in crop diversification, drought-tolerant rice
varieties, and water storage and irrigation infrastructure so
that they can ride out seasonal fluctuations in rainfall.


The study appears in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences and was conducted by researchers at Stanford, the
University of Washington and the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

