

Millions of Chinese kicked off their week-long May Day holiday
Tuesday, many of them going away by air, just as new stricter
rules on airline security took effect, state media reported.


A total of 150 million Chinese were expected to go away, of whom
at least one million were predicted to pass through Beijing's
International Airport, the China Daily said.


Just as passenger throughput was soaring because of the holidays,
the civil aviation authorities introduced new anti-terrorism
rules demanding passengers carry no more than one litre of liquid
in their hand luggage.


"Security checks now may take longer than usual," admitted Liu
Haifeng, an airport security official, as lines that would have
been long anyway became even longer.


As an extra precaution, passengers on international flights were
told to carry the liquids -- including facial cream and perfume
-- in bags with a capacity of no more than 100 ml each, according
to the paper.


The May Day holiday counts as one of China's three big "Golden
Weeks," along with the October 1 National Day and the Spring
Festival in January or February.


The government introduced the holidays in 1999 in hopes of
triggering more consumption, and judging from the large numbers
of people hitting department stores, movie theatres and
restaurants, it seems to be working.


However, when millions of people rub shoulders, there are
hygienic issues involved, and the authorities seemed better
prepared than ever.


State television carried a spot warning people to monitor what
they were eating while dining out, and buses and taxis carried
small "spit bags" for passengers with a need to clear their
throats.


Precious little was said in the local media about the actual
purpose of celebrating Labour Day, apart from an editorial in the
People's Daily paying lip service to the egalitarian principles
on which communist China was built.


"In our country, all working people are respectable regardless of
what industry they are in and what job they do," it said.


However, an estimated 160,000 people turned out to watch the
Chinese flag being hoisted on Tiananmen Square at dawn.

