

The German Football Federation waded into the row between Michael
Ballack and English giants Chelsea on Tuesday over claims the
German captain's operation in Munich on Friday was unnecessary.


Ballack had an operation on his left ankle after being injured in
Chelsea's 0-0 draw with Newcastle on April 22 and will miss key
games including the Champions League semi-final with Liverpool,
plus the May 19 FA Cup Final.


British tabloid The Daily Express reported Chelsea are furious
after Ballack was operated on against their wishes, although the
London club gave permission for the midfielder to fly to Munich
to seek a second opinion on the injury.


The article claims Chelsea now question Ballack's commitment as
the former Bayern Munich star is unlikely to play for them again
this season, but should figure in this June's Euro 2008
qualifiers against San Marino and Slovakia.


But the German Football Federation (DFB) and Ballack have hit
back at claims they short-changed Chelsea after he was operated
on by German team doctor Dr. Hans-Wilhelm Mueller-Wohlfahrt.


DFB spokesman Harald Stenger said: "Our team doctor informed us,
that based on his diagnosis from Friday, an immediate operation
was necessary and unavoidable.


"Wohlfahrt detected loose bone splints in Ballack's left high
ankle as a result of the injury sustained in the game against
Newcastle.


"Any further training session or game could have potentially
endangered the player's health, or even threatened Michael
Ballack's career.


"Mueller-Wohlfahrt has ensured us that he had informed Chelsea's
two physicians before he performed the surgery."


Ballack himself laughed off suggestions he had put Germany's
qualification matches over Chelsea's crucial end-of-season games.


"Anybody saying that this operation was done because I was
looking at the two Germany games in the beginning of June has to
be kidding," he said.


"That's complete stupidity. Name me one player on earth who would
risk not playing in the FA Cup final against Manchester United or
not playing in a Champions League semi-final against Liverpool
because of a Euro 2008 qualifier against San Marino."


The Germans claim that after the Newcastle game Chelsea team
doctors treated Ballack's injury, but did not detect cartilage or
bone damage.


As the injury did not improve, the 30-year old midfielder took a
flight to Munich to consult Mueller-Wohlfahrt, who has treated
him for over a decade.


After the operation, one of Chelsea's doctors flew to Munich to
assess Ballack's injury, while the midfielder himself is hopeful
of wearing the blue shirt again this season.


"I guarantee I did not have surgery for fun," Ballack added.


"I'd much rather be with my teammates to battle Liverpool. But
I'm still hopeful I can return in time to play in the Champions
League final or in the Premiership this season."


Ballack will stay in Munich for a few days to recover and is
wearing a cast on his leg. He will return to London later this
week to continue his rehabilitation program.

