

A Singapore opposition politician on Tuesday overcame blisters
and fatigue to complete his 55-hour protest walk across the city-
state to highlight the plight of workers.


Chee Soon Juan, secretary general of the Singapore Democratic
Party, and his sister Chee Siok Chin finished the 150-kilometre
(93-mile) journey on May Day at a park designated Singapore's
Speakers' Corner to applause from about 20 supporters.


"Workers rights cannot be compromised," Chee said.


Wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with "Increase Pay For Workers, Not
Ministers", he said the aim of the walk was to highlight
"problems of workers in Singapore and the raw deal that they are
getting."


Chee, who started the walk with his sister early Sunday, said he
felt "gratified" to finish despite the pain and blisters.


"Of course, physically (there is) pain everywhere, blisters all
over, but you know (we are) just very determined to carry on this
fight," he said.


Among supporters waiting for Chee at the park was a businessman
who identified himself as Sylvester. "I believe the government
has not done enough for the poorer people," he told AFP.


"I am not in favor of the pay hike," he said in reference to last
month's increase to the million-dollar annual salaries of cabinet
ministers.


The pay rise boosted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's annual
salary from 1.62 million to 2.04 million US dollars, five times
more than US President George W. Bush earns and more than eight
times the salary of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


The increases triggered a rare public outcry from normally
reserved Singaporeans.


Lee pledged his own increase to "suitable good causes", while his
office insisted the move had nothing to do with public reaction
after international media highlighted the pay rises.


The government said the increases were necessary to retain top-
calibre people to manage the economy, one of the wealthiest in
Asia.


Chee, 44, is one of a few in Singapore to have spoken out against
the People's Action Party (PAP), which has ruled since 1959.


He was declared bankrupt early last year after being unable to
pay libel damages won by Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew
and another former prime minister, Goh Chok Tong.

