

British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday he will spell out
his departure plans next week, seeking to smooth over strains
with his likely successor on the 10th anniversary of their 1997
election win.


He said Finance Minister Gordon Brown, who he has long refused to
publicly endorse to take over his job, would make a "great prime
minister."


"I will make my position clear next week. I will say something
definitive then," Blair told Britain's GMTV breakfast programme.


For his part, Brown -- Blair's long-term ally turned feuding foe,
who is expected to take over by July -- was also in conciliatory
mood, using a newspaper column to heap praise on his "oldest
friend in politics."


Blair and Brown shared an office when they first became lawmakers
in 1983 and were behind key reforms to the faction-riven Labour
party that made it an electable proposition.


But their relationship has soured since, particularly over
Brown's perception that Blair reneged on a deal to hand over
power to him after a second term of office.


Supporters of Brown, allegedly with his blessing, mounted a
"mini-coup" last September amid heightened tensions within Labour
over Blair's foreign policy, and forced the 53-year-old premier
to say he would be gone within a year.


Blair has so far refused to name the exact date but political
observers have seen May 9 as the day he will bow out.


Power-sharing government between Catholics and Protestants in
Northern Ireland resumes the day before. Brokering the peace
between the two sides has been seen as one of Blair's greatest
achievements in office.


Both men's comments Tuesday appeared to give the impression of
party unity within Labour, which has been split along Blair-Brown
lines since the former became party leader in 1994.


Brown's article in The Sun tabloid appeared under the headline
"10/10 Blair's decade of achievement" and reflected on the prime
minister's decade in power at home and abroad.


"I am honoured to call Tony my oldest friend in politics, of
course with the inevitable ups and downs along the way, but still
the longest partnership between prime minister and chancellor for
200 years," he said.


"Honoured to have worked with him to create a Britain that is
stronger, fairer and more prosperous than that bright morning
back in 1997 when Tony first walked up Downing Street -- a
Britain which can hold its head up high in the world."


Returning the compliment, Blair said he would give Brown the same
marks for his stewardship of the economy.


"One of the things I very much hope will be part of the legacy of
the government is the strongest economy in the Western world
which he has been responsible for," he said.


"I have always said about him that he would make a great prime
minister and I believe that."


Blair's announcement would immediately trigger a Labour
leadership and deputy leadership election campaign, as Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott, who is also Labour's deputy leader,
has said he will resign at the same time.


In Britain, the prime minister is the leader of the largest party
in the lower House of Commons and a fresh general election does
not have to be called if he or she resigns.


A projected timetable for the seven-week election process is
already being distributed among Labour lawmakers, officials and
leaders of affiliated trade unions, according to party sources.

