

North Korea will scrap its nuclear weapons only if it is offered
a detailed programme of rewards linked to progress and backed by
the threat of sanctions for backsliding, a leading think-tank
said Tuesday.


There are "legitimate grounds" for suspecting that Pyongyang may
never submit to complete denuclearisation but "a phased
negotiation process remains the only strategy with any chance of
success," the International Crisis Group (ICG) said in a report.


The Brussels-based group said the US and other negotiators must
offer sufficient incentives and guarantees of regime survival --
with progress constantly monitored given the North's history of
breaking international agreements.


A six-nation deal reached on February 13 was a step in the right
direction but offers more questions than answers, the ICG said.


That pact offers North Korea one million tons of fuel oil or
equivalent aid for declaring all nuclear programmes and disabling
all nuclear facilities.


But it does not specifically require it to account for existing
nuclear weapons, does not mention a suspected highly enriched
uranium (HEU) programme and does not set an overall timetable.


A deadline for the first phase -- the shutdown of the Yongbyon
reactor in return for an initial 50,000 tons of oil -- was missed
because of a dispute over the North's funds which had been frozen
in a Macau bank.


The communist state insists it will start moving once it receives
the 25 million dollars, which the United States says have been
unfrozen.


"The US, South Korea, China and Japan now need to put forth a
detailed, comprehensive offer for the second and subsequent
phases, and back that offer with a credible threat of coercive
measures should Pyongyang renege on the deal," the ICG said.


These should normally be sanctions. But the ICG said military
force should not be excluded if the North tries to transfer
nuclear material to another country or group.


It cautioned that nuclear weapons are the North's "trump card,
and it may try to cheat and hide one in one of its countless
tunnels."


Getting the North actually to dispose of its weapons may prove to
be the hardest part of the exercise, the ICG said.


The report proposed an eight-step process:


1. Verified freeze of Yongbyon in exchange for the funds and
50,000 tons of fuel oil


2. Energy planning in exchange for declaration of nuclear
programmes


3. Energy provision if the North signs the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty and other pacts and gives UN atomic
inspectors unlimited access


4. Rehabilitation and relief in exchange for agreed dismantlement


5. Aid and lifting of UN sanctions in exchange for dismantlement


6. Security assurances in exchange for weapons and HEU
declarations


7. International financial institutions open offices in Pyongyang
in exchange for HEU commitments


8. Liaison offices and normalisation of US-North Korea relations
in exchange for conclusive verification

