

Reuters reported a takeover approach on Friday from an unnamed
suitor -- just three days after Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
launched a shock bid for the British media giant's US rival Dow
Jones.


The news sent Reuters' share price rocketing by over 30 percent
as media industry experts speculated about the identity of the
mystery bidder.


Takeover rumours have gripped the global media sector this week
following News Corp.'s surprise five-billion-dollar bid on
Tuesday for the Dow Jones Company, which owns The Wall Street
Journal.


"The board of Reuters confirms it has received a preliminary
approach from a third party which may or may not lead to an offer
being made for Reuters," the British group said in a statement to
the London Stock Exchange on Friday.


"There is no certainty an offer will be made or necessary
approvals, including those required under Reuters constitution,
will be received."


In reaction to the news, Reuters shares surged as high as 649.75
pence, before pulling back to stand at 600 pence, which marked a
gain of 21.74 percent compared with Thursday's close, while the
London market also rose.


Reuters' current stock market capitalisation stands at some 8.1
billion pounds (11.9 billion euros, 16.0 billion dollars).


The group, which issued Friday's statement in response to earlier
share price movements, added that a further announcement would be
made when appropriate.


Reuters, best known as a global news and picture agency, derives
most of its revenue from selling financial news and data.


The group's key competitors are US peers Dow Jones and Bloomberg,
and Canadian group Thomson Financial -- which bought financial
news provider AFX from international news agency AFP last year.


The group was created in 1851 by German-born Paul Julius Reuter
who started out by using pigeons to fly stock prices between
Aachen in Germany and Brussels.


Reuters' constitution protects the group from a hostile takeover
bid by prohibiting any single shareholder from holding 15.0
percent or more of its issued capital.


According to Reuters, a "single golden share" is held by The
Reuters Founder Share Co. -- which is operated by 15 trustees
which are tasked with ensuring the "independence, impartiality,
integrity and freedom from bias" of the group.


The set-up means that the trustees can block any hostile takeover
bid -- but an agreed bid is possible, according to the group's
website.


The biggest single shareholder in Reuters is financial services
group Schroders which owns a 7.9 percent stake.


This week has seen big share price gains across the European
media sector, with French media and technology group Lagardere
and British satellite TV broadcaster BSkyB also gaining on the
back of the Dow Jones bid.


But opposition is growing to the bid by Rupert Murdoch to add the
Journal and other Dow Jones media properties to his empire, which
includes the Fox News Channel, MySpace, 20th Century Fox and the
New York Post.

