

Sir Alex Ferguson insists victory in the Premiership title race
will more than make up for the disappointment of exiting the
Champions League at the hands of AC Milan this week.


Ferguson's side will take a huge step towards clinching their
first championship in four years if they beat neighbours City in
the weekend Manchester derby.


Victory will move United eight points clear of neighbours Chelsea
who will then face Arsenal 24 hours later knowing they must win
all three of their remaining games to have a chance of catching
the leaders.


And while Ferguson has moved quickly to dampen any talk of
premature title celebrations should his side win at the City of
Manchester Stadium, he admits that a domestic league triumph
means more than victory in Europe.


"Because the Premier League is an every week event, and because
we have been top for so long then I think it's become our prime
target," said the manager.


"Although you would have to say if we had qualified for the
Champions League final in Athens than that would have been a
fantastic occasion for this football club.


"You want to win every game you play. That's the nature of the
game, and you are hoping that at the end of the campaign you come
out with some silverware.


"And I've always said if you win one trophy you should be
delighted.


"I don't think there was any burden on us because people were
saying they are going to win the treble and I don't think that
affected us in any way but you just hope that one piece of
silverware is going to be lying in your cabinet at the end of the
year."


But he warned: "If we beat City and were then to lose our last
two games and Chelsea are to win their last three games then they
win the league.


"So the name of the game for us is to win our games. And the
first win is tomorrow, we can only win that way.


"I don't know if Chelsea can win at Arsenal but I think the best
way for us to approach it is not to rely on anyone to help us.
That's the wrong attitude. We've got to concentrate on winning
against City."


City will be without Joey Barton after the midfielder was
suspended by the club following a training ground bust-up with
team-mate Ousmane Dabo and with a question mark hanging over the
future of manager Stuart Pearce, the form-book points to a United
win.


But Ferguson has warned his players that the nature of a derby
game means anything can happen - especially if his side allow
themselves to get embroiled in a physical battle.


"Last year they took a physical approach and the referee didn't
do anything about it," he added.


"The thing we have to do tomorrow is play our football and not
get embroiled in any physical contest. It's a big test, derby
games are never easy. So hopefully we can navigate tomorrow and
that will give us a big chance."


With Rio Ferdinand, Louis Saha and Patrice Evra available again,
Ferguson will look to freshen up his side but he admits skipper
Gary Neville is unlikely to be fit before the FA Cup final with
Chelsea on May 19th.


"I think Gary has a chance of the final," Ferguson said. "With
three league games in the space of seven games I think it's hard
for him to come back before.


"He is improving and there is an outside chance he may play some
part in the final league match."

