

The chairman of a stalled UN conference on strengthening the Non-
Proliferation Treaty (NPT) tried Friday to assure Iran it was not
the target of an agenda item calling for full compliance with the
pact.


But the Iranian ambassador held to objections that have
deadlocked the two-week meeting since it opened on Monday.


The chairman, Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano, convened the
conference briefly Friday, and said he would not change the draft
agenda which reaffirms the need for "full compliance" with the
NPT.


However, Amano added that "full compliance" should be understood
to mean compliance with "all" NPT provisions -- even if he
declined to change the wording thus, as demanded by Iran.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh told reporters that
Amano's statement "was not enough" and insisted that the agenda
text be revised.


Tehran argues that emphasising compliance with all NPT provisions
would push nuclear weapons states to keep their promises on
disarmament, rather than just criticize Iran over violations of
the treaty's nuclear safeguards.


Iran feels it is being singled out as it is currently defying UN
Security Council calls for it to suspend uranium enrichment, and
is in fact expanding its nuclear program despite Council
sanctions.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it wants only to produce energy for civilian
use.


Amano said the agenda remained "the best compromise" for the
meeting.


The conference is the first of a series preparing for a 2010
review conference on fixes for the treaty, which is the world's
fundamental document against the spread of nuclear weapons.


Diplomats are concerned that the Vienna meeting could collapse
due to the same procedural wrangling that marred the last review
conference in New York in May 2005.


Amano cut the morning meeting short and the conference was to
reconvene later Friday, as Soltanieh waits for instructions from
Tehran, a senior Europen diplomat said.


"Iran is trying to undermine this conference, this treaty,
because they understand that the treaty will be an occasion to
blame them," a second European diplomat said.


The diplomat said Iran had other objections, such as not wanting
the conference to discuss penalties for states which withdraw
from the NPT, and was not in fact ready to agree to even a
revised agenda.


Soltanieh said Iran wanted the meeting to go forward but did not
want a precedent set of focusing on Iran's face-off with the
United Nations.


Disarmement analyst Rebecca Johnson said the Iranian objections
to wording were a "semantic quibble (which) is nonsensical."


Iran is isolated as both non-aligned states and Western powers
accept the agenda but a consensus is needed from the 130 states
attending the conference on the 189-nation NPT.

