

British Prime Minister Tony Blair may hope to be remembered as a
champion of Iraq's fight against dictatorship, but when his
expected resignation comes next week few war-weary Iraqis will
regret his departure.


Four years after British forces joined a far larger US invasion
force in overthrowing Saddam Hussein, Iraq is mired in sectarian
strife and insurgent violence, and Blair is seen here as little
more than a White House lackey.


"Blair is the son of America," declared Mahmud al-Bajari, 56, a
professor of economics at the University of Basra, the southern
Iraqi city that has been the focus of British peacekeeping and
reconstruction since the 2003 invasion.


"He brought disaster and sectarianism to Basra using a policy of
divide and rule," he said, echoing a common Iraqi tendency to
blame the foreign invasion for triggering conflict between Iraq's
Sunnis and Shiites.


Blair won international plaudits for his role in convincing the
NATO allies to fly to the rescue of Kosovo's beleaguered ethnic
Albanians in 1999, and sent British forces to protect Sierra
Leone's capital from a vicious rebel army.


But since the Islamist attacks on the United States of September
11, 2001 he has become indelibly associated with US President
George W. Bush and the launch of messy, inconclusive
interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq.


Most Iraqis welcomed the fall of Saddam, and in Basra the British
forces -- which pride themselves on skills learned as urban
peacekeepers in Northern Ireland, the Balkans and post-imperial
conflicts -- were warmly welcomed.


Since then, however, the British forces' presence in southeastern
Iraq has been accompanied by a rise in the influence of Shiite
militias, tribal armies and corrupt political factions.


Rather that blame their own leaders for this, many in Basra blame
Bush and Blair for presiding over a disaster, with Blair most
often seen as a puppet of the hated US leader.


"The occupying British forces are playing havoc in Basra," said
history teacher Nadim Saleh. "Since they came until now, they
have caused corruption and carried out random arrests and night
raids with no justification.


"I am very happy to see Blair leaving his post, and I want to see
another person there who does not copy US policy," the 45-year-
old Shiite told AFP on Friday, as marchers staged their latest
anti-British protest.


"It's a shame that Britain has become a puppet in its policy to
another country," he added.


The march was typical of many in recent months. Several hundred
partisans of radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr took to the streets
to demand that British forces release an arrested member of his
Mahdi Army militia.


The situation could not be in sharper contrast to the honeymoon
months after the invasion, when British forces proudly showed TV
crews how they patrolled Basra in berets and unarmoured vehicles
in a tacit critique of heavy-handed American tactics farther
north.


But in the years since then, as their military footprint has
shrunk to a rump force of around 7,000 troops largely based at
one airport just outside Basra, the troops have been engaged in
fierce combat with local factions.


At least 12 British soldiers died in Iraq in April, the deadliest
month for them since the invasion. Now, not only do they patrol
in helmets, they often wear body armour inside their bases which
come under mortar fire daily.


Many of the clashes have brought Britain into conflict with
Sadr's militia, but they have also been caught up in fighting
between rival tribes and corrupt factions of the local police
force they have tried to train.


Basra was once a major port of the British Empire, with some of
its best buildings still dating from the era, and a few older
citizens welcomed what they hoped would be an army that
understood local conditions.


Instead, disappointed Iraqis accuse them of following a US
roadmap.


Sheikh Adnan Al-Sailani, a pro-Sadr cleric, said Blair's
departure would change this very little. "Britain is basically a
puppet of America, whether its prime minister is replaced by
another or not," he said.

