

EADS management faced vexed shareholders on Friday at a tense
general assembly in Amsterdam, with anger focused on production
problems at plane-making subsidiary Airbus.


The company has had a torrid 12 months, marked by a collapse in
profits, upheaval at Airbus, insider trading allegations and
tension between controlling French and German shareholders.


The atmosphere was uneasy as shareholders grilled management on
the golden parachute for former co-chief executive Noel Forgeard
and the performance of the stuttering group.


Several shareholders heckled French co-chairman Arnaud Lagardere
when he announced that an internal investigation had failed to
find anyone responsible for Airbus's manufacturing difficulties.


One small shareholder, fiery retired pilot Cyril Farquhason, drew
applause when he lambasted Airbus management for failing to
apologise for the current imbroglio.


"I have heard neither an apology or an 'I am sorry'. Are your
performances really that good?" he said.


The star Airbus project, its superjumbo A380 airliner, is running
two years behind schedule, leading to mounting costs and damage
to Airbus's reputation among customers.


EADS, which has helicopter, space and defence assets as well as
Airbus, reported net profit of 99 million euros in 2006 compared
to 1.676 billion euros (2.27 billion dollars) in 2005.


The collapse was mainly due to problems at Airbus which made an
operating loss of 572 million euros against a 2.307-billion-euro
profit in 2005 because of production delays with its A380
superjumbo plane.


In reaction, Airbus has launched a wide-ranging restructuring
plan targeting 10,000 job cuts in the next four years across
Europe.


Shareholders settled the thorny issue of whether to pay
themselves a dividend from profits in 2006 on Friday.


They awarded themselves the maximum 12 cents per share, a
fraction of the 65 cents paid from 2005 profits.


The controlling EADS shareholders, German automaker
DaimlerChrysler, French media and technology group Lagardere and
the French state had been at loggerheads about whether to pay a
dividend this year.


The French government had opposed rewarding shareholders in
solidarity with Airbus workers, given the 10,000 job cuts
announced as part of the restructuring programme.


Small shareholders were asked to vote on the size of the dividend
to settle the matter.


The golden parachute given to Forgeard also led to questions for
management on Friday.


The 8.5-million-euro severance package for Forgeard, who stood
down as co-chief executive of the European aerospace group last
year, has antagonised Airbus workers, who mounted work stoppages
for the past week at several of the manufacturer's main plants.


The insider trading allegations follow moves by French police to
question several executives at EADS last week over share sales a
year ago.


The investigation centres on a period shortly before EADS
surprised the stock market and customers with revelations that it
faced serious production problems with the Airbus A380.


It is alleged that several individuals sold stakes on the
privileged knowledge that the group planned to announce delays in
deliveries, which would drive down the price of shares.

