

Liberia on Friday was admitted to the international diamond
exporting scheme known as the Kimberley process after satisfying
experts it had taken measures to prevent trade in "conflict
diamonds."


The European Commission, which currently chairs the Kimberly
process, made the announcement just days after the United Nations
lifted a four-year ban on the trade in diamonds from Liberia,
which promptly re-launched its diamond mining sector.


The government in Monrovia pledged on Tuesday to honour
conditions set by the UN to ensure the gem, blamed for fuelling a
barbaric 14-year civil war in the country, does not slip out of
the tight international diamond control system.


EU Commissioner for External Relations Benita Ferrero-Waldner
welcomed the developments, saying "Liberia's admission into the
Kimberley Process shows the confidence of the international
community in Liberia's new path."


"The Kimberley process community has worked closely with the
government of Liberia and the United Nations to get to this
important milestone.


"We are committed to continue working closely with Liberia to
ensure its diamonds never again cause conflict," she added.


The labour-intensive diamond industry is expected to help reduce
the rate of unemployment in Liberia, which stands at around 85
percent in what was once one of Africa's most prosperous nations.


Endowed with abundant timber, rubber and mineral wealth, Liberia
lay in ruins after its civil war. Its former leader and warlord
Charles Taylor awaits trial at The Hague for war crimes committed
in neighbouring Sierra Leone.


During back-to-back internal conflicts that lasted from 1989 to
2003, in Liberia and Sierra Leone, rivals plundered the country's
wood and diamond resources to purchase the arms they used to wage
war in a conflict that claimed more than 400,000 lives.


An expert mission, headed by the European Community and Botswana,
visited Liberia in March and concluded that it had met the
conditions for admission and the country will now be able to
export its rough diamonds legally to the 70-plus Kimberley
Process member states.


The European Union is the current chair of the Kimberley process
and EU Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid Louis
Michel called Liberia's admission "a very important step" for its
development, "marking the very end of any potential future
financing of the war by blood diamonds."


Moreover, he added, "it is a formal recognition by the
International Community that the efforts deployed by President
Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf in the field of governance are producing
the expected results and I praise such efforts."


Liberia had been subject to UN diamond sanctions for six years as
a result of its civil war.

