

The United States voiced support for a report released Friday by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change laying out
proposals to fight climate change.


"The United States was an active and constructive participant in
the international dialogue among experts and governments meeting
in Bangkok," said Harlan Watson, the chief US negotiator at the
talks.


"The result of this exchange is a summary document that will help
policy makers around the world make more informed decisions in
addressing the economic, energy and associated technological
implications of global climate change," he said in a statement
released in Washington.


Greenpeace environmental campaigners who attended the Bangkok
talks said the US delegation had lobbied hard for the report to
include nuclear power as an option for reducing greenhouse gas
emissions.


Debate over nuclear power was one of the sticking points during
the five days of sometimes testy negotiations, and was included
in the final report with caveats about its safety.


But US officials defended nuclear energy as an important option
for reducing dependence on fossil fuels that produce greenhouse
gases, saying scientists would develop technology to deal safely
with radioactive waste.


"We will perfect the technologies that allow us to recycle the
spent fuel (and) ... to make what is left relatively benign," Jim
Connaughton, head of the White House Council on Environmental
Quality, told reporters in a teleconference.


The United States is also looking for ways to improve existing
energy supplies, such as making coal-fired power plants cleaner
and developing technology to capture carbon dioxide and store it
underground, he said.


"People in America are motivated to action, they're just looking
for concrete programs with concrete results," he said.


In the report, experts from 120 nations agreed on a series of
recommendations which they said were cheap and easy enough for
political leaders to act on right away.


"If we continue to do what we are doing now, we are in deep
trouble," said Ogunlade Davidson, co-chair of the UN's
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which produced
the report.


The IPCC report said individuals could do their part through
lifestyle changes and stressed that the earlier the world took
action, the greater the benefits would be.


The US statement said "the United States is leading the world in
significant investments in climate change science and technology
that provide a thorough understanding of climate research
critical to the policy process.


"The US is engaged both domestically and internationally in a
broad range of activities aimed at developing and deploying clean
energy technologies, promoting energy efficiency, and sustaining
economic growth," the State Department communique said.

