

Turkey's current political crisis, marked by a threat to
intervene by the military, reflects dwindling EU influence in a
country where a deep sense of rejection is putting the brakes on
democracy moves, analysts say.


After keeping a low profile in recent years as Turkey carried out
reforms as part of talks with the EU over possible membership,
the army entered the crisis over the country's next president
with a blunt threat to intervene.


Just hours after Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul narrowly missed
being elected president in parliament last Friday, the military
posted a statement on its website threatening to restore the
secular order if need be.


Gul, a former Islamist, is an unwelcome potential head of state
to many in Turkey, but in particular the military which views
itself as the guardian's of the secular state founded by Mustafa
Kemal Ataturk.


Its views are not easily ignored. It has been responsible for
toppling four previous administrations.


Parliament has now decided that fresh parliamentary elections are
to be held before it tackles the question of who shall be the
country's next president.


The wrangle comes as public support for European Union membership
has fallen sharply -- to about 30 percent according to some
surveys -- from 75 percent two years ago when the mainly Muslim
nation began membership talks.


"The ultimatum of the military is proof that the EU is of no
significance for Turkey now," said Cengiz Aktar, the head of an
EU research center at Istanbul's Bahcesehir University.


Pro-EU reforms had already slowed as the Islamist-rooted
government  grappled with rising opposition in Europe its
membership. This was exacerbated by efforts by some EU
politicians to link Ankara's accession to a recognition that
Turks committed genocide against Armenians during World War I.


"The EU no longer has any influence over the reform process or
what is left of it," Aktar said.


Pointing to anti-West banners at recent anti-government rallies,
political analyst Dogu Ergil said: "There is a considerable
resentment against the US and the EU. This could be indicative of
the frustration of the Turkish middle class, who feel left out of
the global process they wish to be part of."


Aktar said Ankara's reluctance to press ahead with reforms was
evident from its failure to amend some penal code provisions
which are "absolutely murderous for freedoms" despite repeated EU
warnings.


The most infamous article, which penalises "insulting
Turkishness", was used to convict ethnic Armenian journalist
Hrant Dink, who described the 1915-1918 Armenian killings as
genocide, a label that Turkey vehemently rejects.


Dink was murdered in January amid a rising wave of Turkish
nationalism.


In one telling example, the ultra-nationalist Yenicag daily
depicts the stars on the blue EU flag into small Nazi swastikas
in a logo it uses on EU-related articles.


On the EU side, support for Turkey's accession has also weakened.


If the EU "doesn't want us, it should say so clearly now. If we
are not wanted, the two sides need not continue wasting their
time in talks", Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in April
ahead of talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is
opposed to Turkey's full membership.


And she is not alone. Nicolas Sarkzozy, widely tipped to become
France's new president in a Sunday vote, is also a vocal
opponent.


"He will be probably the one to hammer the last nail into the
coffin of Turkish- EU relations," Aktar said.


"To sum up, speaking about Turkey in Europe in a positive light
has become impossible," added the analyst, one of the most
enthusiastic pro-EU intellectuals in Turkey.


As for the Turkish army, it oficially supports Turkey's EU bid in
the name of its Westernisation ideals embodied in the memory of
Ataturk.


But it has never openly said whether it is prepared to bow out
from the political stage for good.

