

World oil prices rose in London Friday on concerns about tight
supplies amid a rash of kidnappings in major crude producer
Nigeria and declining stockpiles of US motor fuel, dealers said.


They eased slightly in New York, however, amid some profit-
taking.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
climbed 52 cents to 66.57 dollars per barrel in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, dipped six cents to 63.13 dollars per barrel in
pit trading.


"The market is currently well supported by declining US gasoline
(petrol) stocks and geopolitical tension," Sucden analyst Michael
Davies said in London.


Investors are monitoring the latest developments in Nigeria,
Africa's biggest oil exporter, where armed men have this week
abducted at least 20 foreigners in three separate incidents.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks on pipelines.


Meanwhile dealers said US gasoline stockpiles remained in focus
ahead of the US holiday driving season, which starts later this
month.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million
last week and are down 34.1 million barrels or 15 percent since
early February, according to data published this week by the US
Department of Energy (DoE).


Despite last week's smaller-than-expected drop, it was the 12th
weekly decline in a row for gasoline stocks.


"In the short-term, the US gasoline market will continue to
underpin (prices)," said Victor Shum, an analyst with energy
consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


The DoE added that American refineries ratcheted up their
gasoline production last week, with capacity utilisation
increasing by a half point from the prior week to 88.3 percent.


"There is some market expectation that US refinery operating
rates will increase and the tightness in the gasoline market will
be relieved," Shum said.


He added that a US government announcement Wednesday that it
would halt buying crude for its strategic petroleum reserve
(SPR), possibly for several months, could put downward pressure
on prices.


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers cartel OPEC on
Wednesday said it saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency (IEA), the consumer watchdog,
stressed the need to pump more crude.

