

Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki on Friday brushed off
questions of military intervention in Ethiopia and Somalia and
accused detractors of distorting the facts.


Afeworki spoke to reporters in Brussels after a meeting with EU
Development Commissioner Louis Michel who described the encounter
as "a constructive discussion".


Asked about accusations from Ethiopia that Eritrea supported
rebels who killed 77 people and kidnapped seven Chinese workers
in an attack in Ethiopia last month, Afeworki replied that it had
become "an addiction to blame anything on us".


"How can it be possible" for Eritrean forces to go all the way
along the coast" and infiltrate there, he asked.


Questioned about the stalemate in the dialogue between Ethiopia
and Eritrea, Afeworki said that there were "no problems with
Ethiopia".


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still at odds over their unresolved border
dispute.


Afeworki, on his first visit to the EU, said the conflict between
the two countries could only be solved if an agreement was
implemented which awarded Badme, the disputed town that triggered
fighting between the neighbours, to Eritrea.


"We want to see nothing more, we want to see nothing less," he
said.


When a South African journalist quizzed him about freedom of the
press in Eritrea, the president replied by asking what freedoms
those living in South African shantytowns enjoyed.


On the particular case of Davit Isaak, an Eritrean-born
journalist with Swedish nationality who has been held without
trial since 2001, Afeworki asked why Sweden was so interested in
handing out passports to Eritreans.


Asked about UN allegations that Eritrea was aiding Islamist
rebels in Somalia, the Eritrean leader replied that the country
had "disappeared from the map in the last 15 years" and his only
interest was in seeing it restored.


Somalia has been without an effective government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre sparked a bloody power
struggle.


"The United Nations has been saying Eritrea has 2,000 troops in
Mogadishu ... for me it's a joke," he said.


"You can hear anything about any situation and very easily point
fingers at someone to divert the issue and make a case by
distorting facts and using the media to cover up," he added.


Sixteen years of unrest in Somalia and tension between Ethiopia
and archrival Eritrea has long been a concern in the Horn of
Africa region.


The European Union is planning to build stronger relations with
Eritrea, hoping that the country will help solve the crises in
the troubled Horn of Africa, the EU's development chief Michel
told the joint press conference.


He added that the EU plans fresh food and infrastructure aid for
Eritrea.

