

The Kremlin is turning back the clock to marshal Soviet-style
patriotism in support of an increasingly anti-Western foreign
policy that sparked verbal clashes this week with NATO, the
European Union and United States, analysts said Friday.


Ahead of a May 9 World War II Victory Day parade on Red Square,
state television is feeding Russians a diet, morning and evening,
of Soviet-era films depicting the defeat of Nazi invaders.


Stay for the state-run news broadcasts and one might be forgiven
for thinking war continues.


Television gives blanket coverage of Estonia's decision to
relocate a Soviet war monument in the Baltic republic's capital
Tallinn and Kremlin-backed youth demonstrations against Estonian
"fascists."


Newspapers and news agencies are filled with Russian officials'
attacks on a US plan to deploy a limited anti-missile defence
system in new NATO countries of eastern Europe.


Last week President Vladimir Putin warned of mutual destruction.
This week the armed forces chief of staff, General Yury
Baluyevsky, forecast an "uncontrollable arms race."


And when NATO, the European Union and United States gave Estonia
their diplomatic support this week, the Russian government and
the media were livid.


"The aggressive imperial bloc has shown its teeth," the Gazeta
daily newspaper said in a front page headline Friday.


"We were not able to protect our war monument. Can we protect our
countrymen in Estonia?" asked Izvestia.


Yevgeny Volk, an analyst with the US-based Heritage Foundation
think tank, describes the patriotic fever as "revenge for the
humiliation of the 1990s after the Soviet collapse," but also as
an element in a broader rebranding under Putin.


"On the international stage you can see this as a repositioning
of Russia as a great power on the world stage. You see this very
well with Estonia," Volk said.


Independent military analyst Alexander Goltz said the government
has a legitimate aim in using World War II patriotism to help
forge a national identity, but that this drive too often
degenerates into crude propaganda.


"There's nothing wrong with finding an identity for the country,
but to create a sense of Russia as a besieged fortress, where the
outside world only wants to do something terrible to us -- that's
politicking," Goltz said.


In the early 1990s the pro-democracy forces building a new post-
Soviet Russia thought they could consign the hammer and sickle to
the dustbin of history.


In today's climate the Communist Party symbol is on the
resurgence.


A move in parliament to remove the hammer and sickle from the
Victory Banner that will lead 7,000 goose-stepping soldiers
across Red Square on May 9 was swiftly vetoed by Putin, who along
with many of his top allies is a veteran of the Soviet KGB
intelligence service.


"Trying to remove one of the fundamental symbols from the history
of our country is the same as trying to undermine our entire
society," said Vladimir Slutsker, one of the upper house members
who opposed the proposed change.

