

Richard Gasquet and Paul-Henri Mathieu set up a French semi-final
showdown at the Estoril Open after both subdued stubborn
opponents to advance on Friday.


The young pair will meet for the second time this season
following a January quarter-final in Sydney with the score
standing at 2-0 in Gasquet's favour.


Gasquet overcame a slow start to advance past crafty American
veteran Vince Spadea 6-3, 6-4.


Mathieu, ranked 42nd and winner of a title last week in
Casablanca, had his own struggle before overcoming Argentine Juan
Monaco 6-4, 4-6, 6-1.


Second seed Tommy Robredo was taking on Argentine number seven
Agustin Calleri in a quarter-final at the Estadio Nacional while
third-seed Novak Djokovic was facing Spaniard Guillermo Garcia-
Lopez.


Gasquet fell behind a break against the 32-year-old Spadea, a
dozen years his senior, but wasted no time in closing the gap.


The French number 15 took a 4-2 lead before collecting the
opening set, then raced away to 4-0 in the second on his way to
the win.


Gasquet improved to 21-8 on the season after reaching a Monte
Carlo quarter- final in his first clay outing of the pre-Roland
Garros campaign.


"I didn't know his game, so it was difficult for me at the
start," said the winner.


"He was in the Top 20 a few years ago and is a dangerous player.


"I began badly and was lucky to win this match in straight sets.
It will be tough to play a countryman in the semi-finals.


"We are good friends and know each other's games well. It will be
anyone's match."


Mathieu stretched his current win streak to eight matches with
his victory over Monaco, the world number 52 who won the Buenos
Aires title in earlier in the season at home.


Among the women the number three Lucie Safarova was the last seed
standing in the semi-finals.


Spain's Nuria Llagostera Vives reached the last four as French
top seed Marion Bartoli was forced to retire with a strained
abdominal muscle, losing  6-2, 3-1.


The winner will face German Greta Arn, who beat Sweden's Sofia
Arvidsson 6-2, 6-2.


In the bottom half, Czech Safarova advanced at the expense of
Spaniard Lourdes Dominguez Lino 7-5, 6-3 and will next play
Viktoria Azarenka of Belarus, who beat last weekend's Budapest
champion Gisela Dulko of Argentina 6-1, 6-2.


"It was a tough match for me, she's a good player," said
Safarova, 30th in the world and winner in Estoril in 2005. "She
played a huge topspin to my backhand that was hard to return.


"I had to wait for my chance to hit winners. I'm just happy to
win and reach the semi-finals."

