

The recent theft of the remains of Hungary's longtime communist
leader, Janos Kadar, from his grave, has struck a painful chord
in a society grappling with its communist heritage and searching
for a place in Europe.


The initial outrage over the vandals who stole Kadar's bones and
skull on Wednesday -- Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany
called it an "appalling, inhumane and cowardly act" -- was
swiftly followed by a polarising debate about the past and
present.


A pensioner calling into a radio programme argued that under
communism he was financially secure, even if political freedoms
were stifled. Now, he said, he has a passport but no money to go
anywhere and is forced to chose between buying food or medicine
with his meager pension.


The next caller responded by accusing him of having worked for
Kadar's secret police.


Kadar ruled Hungary from 1956, the year of the bloody crackdown
on an anti- Soviet uprising, until 1988, two years before multi-
party elections.


A traitor and a dictator to some for serving Soviet interests, he
remains a father-like figure for others for his liberal economic
policies that assured Hungarians a higher standard of living
compared with other Soviet bloc states.


"Kadar is considered perhaps the most popular politician of the
20th century by Hungarians and 70 percent have a positive opinion
of him. That's because the most recent memory is that we were the
happiest barrack in the Soviet camp," said sociologist Maria
Vasarhelyi.


"But Kadar was also responsible for the death of hundreds, and
until people come to term with this, there is probably no chance
at having a healthy democracy" Vasarhelyi said.


Kadar's shadow also looms large on the Hungarian political class.


Viktor Orban, leader of main opposition right-wing Fidesz party,
coupled his staunchly anti-communist rhetoric in elections last
year with reaching out to former top communist leaders in an
effort to win votes from the left.


Meanwhile Gyurcsany, a former communist youth leader, urged
socialist politicians earlier this year to distance themselves
from the Kadar legacy in a bid to modernize the party in the
western European mould.


Gyurcsany was promptly slapped down by influential party leaders
who told him to let Kadar's heritage rest in peace, or else risk
losing votes.


"Fidesz was forced to change its staunchly anti-communist
strategy after coming to terms with the fact that this is still
Kadar's people. The Socialists on the other hand must be careful
not to be seen too much in the role of a party that is a
successor to the communists," political analyst Krisztian
Szabados said.


At the same time, Szabados said that until recently the economic
policies of both left and right reflected the Kadar heritage --
that of a state spending beyond its means to secure political
support.


"It's like in the Kadar years, when the government kept taking
out more and more loans so social tensions wouldn't threaten
political stability. Until last year it was the same here, only
in order to win elections," Szabados said.


The leftist government is now struggling to reduce the highest
deficit inside the European Union, which reached 9.2 percent of
economic output last year.


With cuts in energy price subsidies, an end to free public
university education and the introduction of co-payments for
doctor's visits, Gyurcsany is now trying not only to chip away at
the deficit, but also at Kadar's legacy.


But with the popularity of his Socialists near a historic low,
voters appear again to be tempted by the ghost of Kadar.


"Under Kadar people traded in their human rights and in turn no
one feared going hungry. Under capitalism there are no
guarantees. We're beginning to realize the weight of freedom,"
Vasarhelyi said.

