

Switzerland's right-wing populist Swiss People's Party (SVP) has
been forced to withdraw election posters in Geneva after
accusations of homophobia and intolerance.


The party, the largest political force in the country, is
campaigning against the right of gay couples joined in a civic
partnership to benefit from an exemption from inheritance tax,
which will be put to the electorate of the canton of Geneva on
May 20.


One of its posters denounces gay couples as well-off and
"infertile," sparking a storm of protest from political rivals.


A resolution denouncing the "discriminatory and insulting" slogan
was passed by quasi-unanimity by Geneva canton's main assembly,
with the right-wing Radical Party accusing the SVP of "homophobic
and unacceptable rhetoric."


In a televised interview on Thursday, the secretary of the SVP in
Geneva, Eric Bertinat, attempted to justify the poster by
invoking "natural order," and saying that homosexuals do not
contribute to society because they do not reproduce.


Faced with growing outrage, the party then changed its position
and said on Thursday evening it will withdraw the posters.


In a statement, the SVP said it regretted the shock caused by its
use of the word infertile, and acknowledged that "some people
could feel offended by the use of this word."


The party, led by billionaire industrialist Christoph Blocher who
currently serves as Switzerland's justice minister, presents
itself as a staunch defender of "traditional" values.


On Thursday, half of the SVP's parliamentarians supported a
proposal to outlaw minarets on mosques in Switzerland, claiming
they symbolised an Islamist bid for power.


SVP parliamentarian Oskar Freysinger branded minarets
"lighthouses of jihad" while his colleague Ulrich Schlueer
claimed that they were "Islamist buildings with an imperialist
connotation."


In March, party chairman Ueli Maurer denounced working mothers,
saying they neglect their children and are responsible for the
downfall of Swiss society.

