

Speculation is mounting over what Prime Minister Tony Blair will
do after his expected departure from office, with one report
Friday suggesting he could become a roving envoy in the Middle
East or Africa.


Blair, who this week marked 10 years in power and turns 54 on
Sunday, is set to announce his departure plans next week, and is
expected to hand over to likely successor Gordon Brown, Britain's
finance minister, in late June or early July.


The Daily Telegraph newspaper said Blair is to spurn the chance
to earn 10 million pounds (20 million dollars) on the
international lecture circuit and focus on raising money for a
new Blair Foundation, funding aid work in Africa.


It also said he has agreed to a request from US President George
W. Bush to fly into the Middle East when asked as a special envoy
to try to revive the stalled peace process.


"The Middle East and especially Palestine have always been close
to his heart," the paper quoted a source from Blair's Downing
Street office as saying. "It is true he has discussed not going
straight on the lecture circuit."


But Downing Street downplayed the front-page report in the
traditionally Conservative-supporting paper, although it did not
formally deny it.


"This is all complete speculation. The prime minister is just
getting on with the job in hand," said a spokesman.


On Thursday, Downing Street had dismissed a report that Blair
would announce next week that he is standing down as a lawmaker,
as well as Labour leader and prime minister.


"The announcement next week will be solely about the prime
minister as leader of the Labour Party," his official spokesman
said. "He has made no decision whatsoever to stand down as an
MP."


Blair is widely expected to announce next week, probably either
Wednesday or Thursday, the timetable for his departure as Labour
leader, and therefore as prime minister.


His actual departure will come after a seven-week election
process within the Labour Party to designate his successor, with
Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown the overwhelming favourite to
become the leader.

