

A state health minister and six officials are being investigated
over the deaths of 38 newborn babies since January at a
government hospital in southern India, police said Friday.


They said a court also agreed to review a petition claiming that
the six hospital employees and Kerala's state health minister,
P.K. Sreemathy, were negligent in preventing bacterial infection
in the neo-natal unit.


"The case has been registered and investigations are on," Kerala
police officer J.K. Dinil said, adding that scope of the
investigation is culpable homicide not amounting to murder --
which carries a 10-year jail term.


The deaths, which occurred at the Government Medical College in
the state capital Thiruvananthapuram, have shocked Kerala --
which consistently ranks near the top of India's 29 states in
health and education tables.


The World Health Organisation and the United Nations Children's
Education Fund last year ranked the state as "baby-friendly" for
its infant mortality rate of 10 per 1,000 births versus 70
nationwide for India.


But Reena David, a nurse working in the hospital but not among
those being investigated, told AFP that "overcrowded maternity
wards and lack of resources make the labour-rooms death
chambers."


"We are working in the most unhygienic conditions," she said.


The court petition was filed by a member of the opposition
Bharatiya Janata Party, and alleged that hospital authorities had
failed to act despite a warning note from a microbiology
inspector about poor conditions at the neo-natal unit.


Around 2,000 women give birth each month at the hospital, which
is among the busiest in India.


A doctor at the hospital confirmed there had been warnings about
infection at the neo-natology unit.


"When we found sudden increase in death rate of newborns, we
conducted microbiology tests on the blood samples. The result
confirmed that infections caused by the presence of multi-drug
resistant strains of bacteria," Dr. Raj Mohan told AFP.


The state health minister insisted he personally led a campaign
to spend 2.5 million rupees (60,000 dollars) to sanitise the
hospital after hearing of the deaths.


"When I was informed about the deaths, I visited the hospital and
directed health officials for fast-track fumigation and
sanitation. I can assure that such unfortunate incidents will not
be repeated," he said in an interview.


Federal Health Minister Renuka Chowdhury said in New Delhi this
week that she had sought a report from the Kerala government.

