

The convicted terrorist Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, alias Carlos the
Jackal, is to stand trial for a series of attacks in the 1980s in
France that left 11 people dead, sources close to the case said
Friday.


The Marxist-Leninist radical, who once boasted that his plots had
killed more than 1,500 people, is serving a life sentence in a
French jail for the 1975 murder of two French policemen and a
police informer.


The latest charges against Carlos say he was "complicit in
killings and destruction of property using explosive substances"
in relation to a series of bombings in France in 1982 and 1983
that killed 11 and injured more than 100 people, the sources
said.


The charges relate to attacks on two trains, on the offices of an
Arabic- language magazine in Paris and on the Saint-Charles train
station in the southern city of Marseille.


According to Hungarian and East German archives cited in the
case, one of the train attacks was an attempt to target Jacques
Chirac, France's outgoing president who was then mayor of Paris.


Three other people, currently on the run, will be tried in
absentia in the case, the source said. The trial is unlikely to
start before next year.


Carlos rose to infamy in 1975 when he took 11 ministers hostage
from the powerful Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) oil cartel.


His commando group burst into the conference room where the OPEC
ministers and their staff were meeting in Vienna, killing a
Libyan delegate, an Austrian policeman and an Iraqi bodyguard.


Saying he was acting for the "Arm of the Arab Revolution", a
previously unknown group, Carlos demanded the broadcast of a text
condemning Israel, the Palestine Liberation Organization, the oil
monarchies of the Gulf and then Egyptian president Anwar Sadat.


The occupation of the OPEC headquarters went on until the
following morning, when Carlos's team took a DC-9 plane supplied
by Austrian authorities to fly towards Algiers with 40 hostages.


Carlos was finally captured in Sudan in August 1994 by French
secret service agents.


He is serving his life sentence in Clairvaux prison in eastern
France.

