

Ten Asian and Pacific nations pledged Friday to work closer to
tackle rampant illegal fishing in the region in the wake of
rapidly dwindling fish stocks.


Fishing ministers from the 10 countries signed an agreement to
share information on illegal fishing and step up surveillance in
their waters in an increased effort to reduce poaching and
overfishing.


They also pledged data-sharing on the levels of fish stocks in
their waters and the catches of their fishing fleets so they
could work together to determine what amount of future fishing
was sustainable.


The agreement was forged in a one-day meeting of the ministers on
the resort island of Bali co-hosted by the Indonesian and
Australian governments.


Australian Fisheries Minister Eric Abetz hailed the agreement as
crucial to increasing regional cooperation and combating
unsustainable fishing.


"Today's meeting sends a clear message to the fish poachers that
governments regionally are determined to cooperate and tackle the
problem head on," he said after the signing.


"Illegal fishing is not just a problem which threatens Australian
fish stocks, it affects many countries in the Southeast Asian
region."


Other countries which signed the pact included East Timor, Papua
New Guinea, Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand, the
Philippines and Brunei.


The regional plan of action covers fishing in the South China
Sea, the Sulu Sulawesi Sea, Arafura Sea north of Australia and
the Timor Sea.


The agreement also paves the way for Australia and Indonesia to
stage joint patrols to help stamp out illegal fishing in the
waters between the two countries, Indonesian Maritime Minister
Freddy Numberi said.


Australia has long been concerned about poaching by Indonesian
fishermen in its northern waters, leading to a depletion of shark
numbers amid a growing demand in Asia for their fins for
traditional soup.


However the agreement does not include any proposals for
sanctions if poachers are caught in neighbouring waters.


Boediono, Indonesia's coordinating minister of economic affairs,
said achieving sustainable fishing was difficult as Asian
countries balanced feeding their growing populations with
preserving marine resources.


"On the one hand we have to prevent futher decline in fishstocks,
on the other hand we need to positively respond to the increasing
demand of fish for human consumption," Boediono said.


"Illegal unreported and unregulated fishing distorts competition
by jeopardising the economic survival of those who fish in
accordance with the law and in compliance with the relevant
conservation and management standards," he added.

