

Nuclear power has been listed in a key UN report as an option in
the battle against climate change, after a long 11th-hour debate
over its potential, delegates said Friday.


The report released Friday by the UN's leading body on global
warming lists nuclear power among the technologies available to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.


However, it also mentions safety concerns, the threat of weapons
proliferation and waste disposal as constraints on the use of
nuclear power.


Nuclear was widely seen as a key sticking point at the
conference, which ran Monday to Friday and aimed to lay out
affordable ways to minimise the impact of climate change.


Gavin Edwards, Greenpeace head of climate and energy, said the
United States had lobbied for its inclusion, while Germany and
Austria were the main dissenters.


"We do not endorse, we do not recommend, we only analyse, we lay
out various options. We have laid out what it can achieve and
(at) what costs," said Bert Metz, co-chair of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.


"We do not only focus on the carbon dioxide aspects, we provide
the information so that decision makers can use that to make up
their minds if they want to use this option or not."


Nuclear supporters hail it as a clean energy which will help
lessen the world's dependence on polluting fossil fuels.


But green groups decry it as unclean and unsafe, arguing that
there is still no safe way to dispose of radioactive waste.


Edwards said governments should steer clear of nuclear as a
solution to climate change, and instead throw their weight behind
renewable energy, such as solar and wind power.


"(With) nuclear energy, there is only a small potential, and it
(the report) lays out three important caveats," he said,
referring to the IPCC's safety concerns.


"With nuclear, all the policy makers will see are controversies.
We think the choice is easy."


Edwards said the US had lobbied for a sentence saying nuclear
could have an 18-percent share of the electricity market by 2030.


"Suddenly they burst into life when it came to nuclear power," he
told AFP.


"There was a discussion whether (to include) a sentence
concerning the nuclear option for mitigation, which took some
time to agree," said Italian delegate Marzio Galeotti.

