

A Turkish prosecutor launched Monday a probe into sharp criticism
by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of a court decision to
cancel a disputed presidential vote, the CNN-Turk news channel
said.


The formal investigation followed a complaint by an Ankara lawyer
that Erdogan violated the law by describing the Constitutional
Court ruling as a "bullet fired at democracy" during a speech
Wednesday.


The complaint charges that Erdogan "created fear and panic in the
public", "openly incited crime", "openly incited the public to
disobey laws", "abused his power" and "degraded the judiciary",
CNN-Turk said.


The prosecutor in charge of the probe will decide whether there
is need for a full judicial investigation against Erdogan that
could pave the way for charges against him.


He would have to ask parliament for permission to carry out such
an investigation since Erdogan has political immunity.


In his speech, Erdogan said his Justice and Development Party
would respect Tuesday's court ruling on the first-round
parliamentary vote but said it was a legally controversial
decision.


"And you know what is it at the same time? It is a bullet fired
at democracy," he said.


The Constitutional Court immediately hit back, warning that the
prime minister was committing a crime with his "irresponsible"
remarks which "turn the institution into a target".


Hours later, Erdogan backpedalled, saying he was criticising not
the court but main opposition leader Deniz Baykal who had said
ahead of the ruling that Turkey would plunge into conflict if the
court did not cancel the vote.


Baykal's Republican People's Party had petitioned the court to
cancel a first- round vote in parliament last Friday in which the
sole candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, narrowly missed
being elected.


The court annulled the vote on a quorum rule Tuesday, thus
blocking the election of Gul, a former Islamist, who secularists
feared would increase the influence of religion had he become
head of state.


Since the verdict, parliament has approved a government call to
hold early legislative elections on July 22.

