

London's High Court found former Zambian president Frederick
Chiluba and four top aides guilty Friday of conspiring to rob 46
million dollars (33.8 million euros) of public money.


Judge Peter Smith said Zambians should know that his flashy suits
were paid for with money stolen from them, in a ruling which
could lead to the seizure of Chiluba's assets.


Britain hailed it as an "historic victory for the people of
Zambia."


The ex-president, who was not present in court, took part in two
separate conspiracies to siphon off the money, Smith said.


He had hundreds of bespoke shirts made bearing his monogram and
"signature" shoes with raised heels.


President from 1991 to 2001, Chiluba officially earned about
100,000 dollars during his time in power, yet he managed to pay
the exclusive Basile clothes boutique in Switzerland 1.2 million
dollars -- all with money stolen from the Republic of Zambia.


"This was at a time when the vast majority of Zambians were
struggling to live on one dollar a day and many could not afford
more than one meal a day," Smith said.


Chiluba "had the benefit of this largesse at the expense of the
people of Zambia. He still wears some of the clothes.


"The people of Zambia should know, whenever he appears in public
wearing some of these clothes, that he acquired them with money
stolen from them."


Details of how much was recoverable from each defendant was to be
decided at a later date.


Xavier Chungu, the former head of Zambian Secret Intelligence
Services; Stella Chibanda, a former senior official in the
Ministry of Finance; and financial advisers Faustin Kabwe and
Aaron Chungu were also found liable.


In addition, Smith held that Atan Shansonga, the former Zambian
ambassador to the United States, was liable for giving dishonest
assistance in respect of about three million dollars.


Basile were also liable to the tune of 1.2 million dollars for
conspiracy and dishonest assistance, the judge held.


The case was brought in London because it was considered to be
the centre of wrongdoing by defendants based in Zambia and
because the stolen funds passed through bank accounts in the
British capital.


Zambia's current President Levy Mwanawasa has made the fight
against graft the cornerstone of his government's efforts.


Britain's International Development Secretary Hilary Benn
welcomed the ruling.


"This is an historic victory for the people of Zambia and shows
their commitment to bringing those who steal from the state to
account -- however powerful they are," he said.


"The money recovered can now be returned to the government of
Zambia to be invested in the people's future -- such as education
or clean drinking water for some of the seven million Zambians
living in poverty."

