

The convicted Venezuelan terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal is
to stand trial for a wave of 1980s bomb attacks in France that
left 11 dead, legal officials said Friday.


The Marxist-Leninist radical, who once boasted that his plots had
killed more than 1,500 people, is already serving a life sentence
in France for the 1975 murder of two French policemen and an
alleged police informer.


Top French anti-terror judge Jean-Louis Bruguiere has now ordered
him to stand trial for "complicity in killings and destruction of
property using explosive substances" in relation to four bombings
in France in 1982 and 1983 that killed 11 and injured more than
100 people, officials said.


The charge sheet against Carlos, whose real name is Ilich Ramirez
Sanchez, says the attacks were part of a "private war" waged by
Carlos against France to try to obtain the release of two members
of his gang who were arrested as they prepared an attack on the
Kuwaiti embassy in Paris.


The charges relate to attacks on a train travelling from Paris to
the southwestern city of Toulouse that left five dead; on the
Paris office of the Arabic-language Al Watan magazine that killed
one; on the Saint-Charles train station in the Mediterranean city
of Marseille that killed two; and on a high- speed TGV train that
killed three.


The Paris-Toulouse train line was frequently used at the time by
Jacques Chirac, France's outgoing rightwing president who was
then mayor of Paris.


According to Hungarian and East German archives cited in the
case, Chirac was the target in the attack on that line.


But attempting to assassinate Chirac is not one of the charges
being laid against Carlos in this case, and he was not on the
train when the bomb went off.


Three other people, Christa Margot Frohlich, Ali Al Issawi and
Johannes Weinrich, have also been ordered to stand trial in the
case. Weinrich is currently serving a prison term in Germany. It
was not immediately clear where the two others were.


The trial is unlikely to start before next year.


Carlos, 57, rose to infamy in 1975 when he took 11 ministers
hostage from the powerful OPEC oil cartel.


His commando group burst into the conference room where the OPEC
ministers and their staff were meeting in Vienna, killing a
Libyan delegate, an Austrian policeman and an Iraqi bodyguard.


Saying he was acting for the "Arm of the Arab Revolution," a
previously unknown group, Carlos demanded the broadcast of a text
condemning Israel, the Palestine Liberation Organization, the oil
monarchies of the Gulf and then Egyptian president Anwar Sadat.


The siege at OPEC headquarters went on until the following
morning, when Carlos's team took a DC-9 plane supplied by
Austrian authorities to fly towards Algiers with 40 hostages.


After two decades on the run, Carlos was finally captured in
Khartoum in 1994 by French secret service agents acting with the
help of the Sudanese government.


He is serving his life sentence in Clairvaux prison in eastern
France.

