

The Auckland Blues booked their place in the semi-finals of the
Super 14 rugby competition when they beat the Western Force 33-6
here Friday.


Despite being early pacesetters this season, three consecutive
losses had put the Blues' semi-final chances in jeopardy.


But their 27 point win means they cannot be dislodged from the
top four and they must now wait to see who their semi-final
opponents will be.


They scored four tries to none and, by gaining a bonus point,
have even given themselves a chance of hosting a semi-final.


Both sides struggled to come to terms with the slippery
conditions caused by steady rain in the 90 minutes leading up to
the game and persistent showers during it.


The Blues went to the break leading 13-6, but they dominated play
for the first 40 minutes and should probably have led by more.


Luke McAlister opened the scoring with a penalty, which was soon
matched by Force fly-half Matt Giteau.


McAlister kicked a second penalty after 22 minutes and from the
restart the Blues scored the try of the match - a spectacular 75
metre effort involving almost the entire team.


Flyhalf Isa Nacewa took the ball just inside his own 22, slipped
through two tackles and broke clear before giving the ball to
McAlister, who raced another 40 metres before finding centre
Isaia Toeava.


Toeava was brought down just short of the line but four phases
later winger Rudi Wulf strolled over under the posts after the
Force ran out of defenders.


Giteau kicked a penalty right on halftime to give the home team
some hope heading into the second half but that advantage was
lost straight after the restart.


The Force were in trouble at the scrum throughout the match and
two minutes into the second half McAlister put the score out to
16-6 when Force prop Gareth Hardy was penalised right in front
for not packing properly.


With 10 minutes to go the Blues made the game safe and booked
their place in the semi-finals when prop John Afoa crashed over.


Then two minutes later the Blues scored a controversial try when
they took a quick line-out using the wrong ball.


Instead of calling them back for another throw in, the referee
and touch judge allowed play to continue and All Black hooker
Kevin Mealamu scored out wide.


They got their bonus point right on fulltime and underlined their
forward dominance when the third member of the front row, Tony
Woodcock, smashed his way over to secure the bonus point.

