

Air Deccan, India's largest budget airline, denied Friday that
liquor baron Vijay Mallya's Kingfisher Airlines had made an offer
to buy the company in a bid to become the country's top carrier.


"This is mere speculation, there's no truth in it at all," said a
spokeswoman for Air Deccan in Bangalore, where both carriers are
based.


Kingfisher Airlines spokesman Prakash Mirpuri said he would have
to check with Mallya, who was abroad and could not be reached for
immediate comment, before he reacted to reports of a possible
takeover.


NDTV 24X7 television network on Friday said the two companies
were in talks.


That came a day after the Times of India newspaper reported that
a team from Kingfisher was scrutinising the books of Air Deccan,
which reported a loss of 2.13 billion rupees in the quarter ended
March 31.


A deal would create an airline that would control 38 percent of
India's domestic aviation market, overtaking the 33 percent share
of Jet Airways, which last month bought rival Air Sahara for 14.5
billion rupees (338 million dollars), the Times said.


Jet Airways plans to turn Air Sahara into a budget carrier called
Jet Lite to tap the low-fare segment that has contributed to 20
percent annual growth in India's aviation industry over the past
four years.


Some analysts have speculated that Kingfisher Airlines, which
bills itself as a "full service, true-value" carrier, plans to
follow suit by buying Air Deccan, whose purchase would give it a
combined fleet of 64 aircraft.


From just three in 2003, the number of airlines in India has
jumped to 10, with several carriers joining the fray to profit
from a boom in air travel that is expected to more than double
the domestic market size to 60 million passengers by 2010.


Jet Airways, Indian Airlines and Air Sahara were joined by Air
Deccan, Kingfisher, SpiceJet, Paramount Airways, Go Air, IndiGo
and Indus Airways, with more such as Easy Air, Trans India and
Air Dravida seeking government approval to take to the skies.


Competition in India's airline sector has caused the cost of air
travel to fall, but has also squeezed profitability and paved the
way for a wave of consolidation through closures and mergers, an
industry report released in February said.

