

EADS shareholders met in Amsterdam on Friday at a turbulent time
for the European aerospace group amid concern about golden
parachutes for former managers, strikes at plane maker Airbus and
division over the dividend.


There are also allegations of insider trading swirling around the
company as well as the issue of disasterous financial results for
2006, setting the stage for a stormy general assembly.


EADS, which has helicopter, space and defence assets as well as
Airbus, reported net profit of 99 million euros in 2006 compared
to 1.676 billion euros (2.27 billion dollars) in 2005.


The collapse was mainly due to problems at Airbus which made an
operating loss of 572 million euros against a 2.307-billion-euro
profit in 2005 because of production delays with its A380
superjumbo plane.


This has led to division between shareholders about whether the
group should pay a dividend and EADS directors said last month
that they had failed to decide on the matter.


The controlling EADS shareholders, German automaker
DaimlerChrysler, French media and technology group Lagardere and
the French state have been at loggerheads.


The French government has opposed rewarding shareholders, given
the dramatic fall in profits and because Airbus has announced
10,000 job cuts as part of a radical restructuring programme.


Small shareholders, excluding the controlling shareholders, will
vote on the the matter, the new co-chairman of the group, Rudiger
Grube, said at the start of the meeting on Friday.


The golden parachute given to former chief executive Noel
Forgeard might also lead to difficult questions for management
from some shareholders.


The 8.5-million-euro severance package for Forgeard, who stood
down as co-chief executive of the European aerospace group last
year, has raised the ire of shareholders.


The payoff has also annoyed workers at Airbus, a 100-percent EADS
subsidiary, where workers have mounted work stoppages for the
past week at several of the manufacturer's main plants.


The insider trading allegations follow moves by French police to
question several executives at EADS last week over share sales a
year ago.


The investigation centres on a period shortly before EADS
surprised the stock market and customers with revelations that it
faced serious production problems with its star product, the
Airbus A380.


The investigation arises from allegations that several senior
executives, including Forgeard and fellow board member Jean-Paul
Gut, sold shares before the price of EADS stock fell sharply.


It is alleged that they sold shares on the privileged knowledge
that a few weeks later the group would announce delays in
deliveries of the A380 and that this would drive down the shares.

