

Germany's powerful IG Metall union said Friday it had agreed a
4.1-percent pay rise for its 3.4 million members in Germany,
effective from June and to be followed by a further pay rise of
1.7 percent a year later.


The deal was thrashed out during 20 hours of negotiations with
employers in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg but will be applied
across the country.


Economists have been closely watching the IG Metall negotiations,
with many fearful that handing out big pay rises could slam the
brakes on economic growth in Germany.


"The agreement won't go unnoticed at the European Central Bank,"
said Morgan Stanlet analyst Elga Bartsch.


"This is not because the level of the deal is likely to generate
much immediate inflationary pressure.


"It is because it is an important observation of relative
bargaining power of workers and employers in the light of the
current labour market situation."


Official figures released this week showed that Germany's jobless
rate fell to 9.5 percent of the workforce in April from 9.8
percent in March, taking the number of unemployed below four
million to the lowest point in four and a half years.


The pay negotiations had been preceded by one-day strikes in the
sector.


IG Metall had originally demanded a 6.5 percent rise, while
employers made an initial offer of 2.5 percent with a 0.5 percent
bonus.


The union hailed a good deal for its members. "A nice sum of
money will be going into the wallets of employees," said one of
its negotiators, Joerg Hofmann.


The employers admitted they had wanted to keep any deal under
four percent, but put on a brave face.


"It is balanced and appropriate given that the economy is doing
exceptionally well," said Stefan Roell, who represented Baden-
Wuerttemberg in the talks.


After years of gloom, the German economy is on an upward curve.
The government last month raised its growth forecast for 2007 to
2.3 percent from its previous prediction of 1.7 percent.


Consumer sentiment and business confidence indices in the
eurozone's biggest economy have also shown sharp rises recently.

