

The Asian Development Bank, under pressure to overhaul its
operations, opened its annual meeting Friday to warnings of
growing wealth inequalities, economic imbalances and pollution in
the region.


Development experts gathered for a four-day meeting to try to
tackle a growing rich-poor gap and alleviate chronic pollution in
much of developing Asia, which is enjoying rapid but increasingly
uneven economic growth.


"Despite much progress, the gap between the rich and the poor is
widening with hundreds of millions still living in poverty," ADB
president Haruhiko Kuroda told reporters at a conference centre
in a leafy Kyoto suburb where a handful of protestors gathered
outside waving placards saying, "ADB Go Home."


The ADB also came under attack from non-governmental campaigns
led by Greenpeace which slammed the development bank's financing
of coal-fired power projects in Asia that it said was
contributing to global climate change.


The ADB said it would invest 900 million dollars in clean energy
projects in 2007 and slightly more in the following two years,
with the priority on China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, the
Philippines and Vietnam.


But environmentalists said that a large portion of the ADB's
energy financing was still being channeled into smoke-belching
fossil-fueled power.


"The bank must end the obvious contradiction of saying they want
to fight climate change, while supporting coal, the most climate-
damaging of energy technologies," Greenpeace's Athena Ballesteros
said in a statement.


The future of the Asian Development Bank itself is also under
discussion as the lender comes under pressure to modernise its
operations to ensure it does not lose its relevance in a rapidly
shifting economic landscape.


An outside panel of experts appointed by the bank last month
urged the ADB to "radically transform itself," estimating that by
2020 widespread absolute poverty would have been beaten in most
Asian countries.


But ADB chief economist Ifzal Ali noted that even if widespread
poverty was stamped out by the end of the next decade, many
people would still be living on just two or three dollars a day.


In 2005 there were about 590 million people living below the
dollar-a-day poverty line, but as many as 1.57 billion people
struggling to get by on just two dollars a day.


"At two dollars a day it is still going to be a huge problem," he
said, adding, "The elimination of widespread poverty by 2020 is
not a foregone conclusion."


Currencies are also a hot topic as many developing Asian nations
struggle to cope with large capital inflows and an appreciation
of their currencies against the dollar.


"Small open economies in Asia like Thailand or Malaysia,
certainly their economies are affected by a large inflow of
capital from outside," said Kuroda.


"This is a real challenge for any small, open economy," he added,
urging closer financial cooperation to mitigate the impact.


Finance ministers from Japan, China and South Korea also met on
the sidelines of the conference, pledging to work on a multi-
national currency swap arrangement together with Southeast Asian
nations that could swing into action more quickly in the event of
a currency crisis.


Finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
as well as China, Japan and South Korea will meet here Saturday
to discuss how to bolster their defences against a possible
repeat of the 1997 regional financial crisis.

