

Southeast Asian states and the European Union agreed Friday to
launch free trade negotiations, setting aside differences over
alleged human rights violations in army-ruled Myanmar, officials
said.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson reached the agreement with
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) economic ministers
during a meeting in Brunei, ASEAN Secretary General Ong Keng Yong
told AFP.


"Yes, we agreed to launch the ASEAN-EU free trade negotiations,"
Ong said from the Brunei capital Bandar Seri Begawan.


"We will set up a joint working committee to follow through this
announcement ... The understanding is that we are talking to the
EU as a group of 10 member countries and Myanmar is a member of
ASEAN. No one will be excluded from the negotiating process."


An ASEAN-EU free trade zone will cover nearly one billion people
and is potentially one of the largest in the world. Two-way trade
totalled 137 billion US dollars in 2005.


Renate Nikolay, a member of Mandelson's cabinet said the
agreement marked an important step in ASEAN-EU ties, which have
been strained by European concerns over political repression and
human rights violations in ASEAN member Myanmar.


The EU last month extended its sanctions against the military
regime there for another year.


EU foreign ministers expressed "deep concern on the lack of
tangible progress on the promised transition towards a legitimate
civilian government" and called for the release of democracy icon
Aung San Suu Kyi.


The sanctions were first introduced in 1996 after Yangon failed
to meet EU demands for greater democracy.


Malaysia's state-run news agence Bernama quoted Mandelson as
saying in Brunei the 27-member EU remained firm on Myanmar.


"Our stance on Myanmar, as you know, has not changed," Mandelson
said.


Nikolay told AFP on Thursday: "We never made it a secret that
there is a political issue involved. What we are trying to avoid
is to make this a stumbling bloc for the negotiations."


On Friday, Nikolay said both sides "found a joint language and we
agreed to launch the process.


"We are going to appoint a committee of senior officials who will
work out the work schedule and work programme."


Talks for an ASEAN-EU free trade agreement began two years ago in
Vietnam's Halong Bay resort. A feasibility study showed there was
a "solid case" to deepen economic ties.


But differences over Myanmar and the EU's focus on strengthening
the multilateral trade system under the World Trade Organisation
(WTO) have slowed down progress.


However, since the Doha round of WTO talks ground to a halt in
July in disputes over farm trade, the EU has tried to give a new
push to bilateral deals, a strategy already being pursued by
economic rivals the United States and Japan which have concluded
or are pursuing FTAs in Asia.


The European Commission, the EU's executive arm, was mandated by
member states to negotiate FTAs with ASEAN, South Korea and
India.


An independent analysis carried out by CEPII, France's leading
institute for research on the international economy, and
Copenhagen Economics showed a free trade agreement would boost EU
exports to ASEAN by 24.2 percent.


ASEAN would also see an 18.5 percent rise in its exports to the
EU if an agreement is reached.


The study showed that the three free trade deals could add more
than 40 billion euros (54.26 billion US) to EU exports annually.


Ong, the ASEAN chief, also lauded the economic benefits of a free
trade pact.


"With this announcement, we basically agreed that ASEAN and the
EU have very significant trade ties and we should now sit down
and talk," he said.


ASEAN's other members are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos,
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

