

Science had a rare victory over politics at this week's UN
climate change conference, after a united call for action emerged
despite fierce debate over how to best tackle global warming.


The UN's top body on climate change on Friday released a report
approved by delegates from 120 nations, laying out how the world
could avoid the worst impacts of global warming with minimal
economic damage.


As the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change meeting began in
Bangkok on Monday, delegates warned that it was fanciful to
believe all the players had the interests of the planet at the
top of their agenda.


They said nations would inevitably fight to protect their own
economic and political interests, and as the meeting got
underway, reports crept out from behind the closed doors that
some delegations were indeed playing politics.


But after all the battles, wrangling and interventions, most
agreed that science had triumphed, with politics sometimes even
playing a helping hand.


"You could argue that some of the delegates that are most
critical and difficult towards the text are the most important to
the text," said Michael Williams, spokesman for the UN's
Environment Programme.


"By challenging and nitpicking and asking questions, that just
increases the chances of us getting a better text rather than
just being polite about it."


The United States, usually fingered as a key culprit in
protecting economic interests over climate change concerns,
escaped largely unscathed from the conference, with most
delegates pleasantly surprised by its performance.


"I was relieved to see the Americans behaving, that makes such a
difference," said Stephan Singer, of the conservation group WWF.


Gavin Edwards from Greenpeace also said the United States
delegation had kept a low profile, but "they burst into life when
it came to nuclear power."


Throughout the week, news emerged from various camps that India,
China and Brazil were pushing their positions with vigour, trying
to get rich countries to recognise their historical burden for
global warming.


Shouldering most of the blame for trying to stick a political oar
in the proceedings was China, who were said to be trying to play
up the costs of taking immediate action to battle global warming.


Michael Mueller, a German environment ministry official who
attended the talks, accused China of impeding progress towards
cutting greenhouse gases, and said its delegates had been
"masters of deception and the art of interpretation."


But even the green groups eventually gave China a pat on the
back.


"Some of the coal industry interests were represented by some
interventions by the Chinese government, but they were isolated.
China accepted it in the end," said Singer.


Nebojsa Nakicenovic, a scientist from Austria and one of the
authors of the report, admitted it was frustrating when politics
tried to make inroads in science, but said it was essential that
all voices were heard.


"Science tries to reduce to the possible minimum the personal
bias of analysts. Whereas in politics one can say that it's a
completely different game, completely different rules apply," he
told AFP.


"But I think what one has to understand is this is also the
uniqueness about this process... what is unique about this is the
connections between the science side and the decision makers."


And as weary delegates emerged from the conference hall, most
agreed that that they were broadly happy with the results of the
lengthy and exhausting process.


"We made it at last," one delegate said with a sigh.

