

A medieval sailing vessel discovered in a riverbed north of
Dublin is to be recovered and preserved, Environment and Heritage
Minister Dick Roche said Friday.


"This find has surpassed all our initial expectations in terms of
the amount of recoverable material. Carbon dating analysis of
some of the vessel's timbers indicate that it dates from about
1500 AD.


"Further analysis should be able to pinpoint its dating to within
a couple of decades," Roche said.


The 12-metre (40-feet) long wreck was discovered last November
during dredging operations in the River Boyne close to the port
of Drogheda. Initially it was thought it might be a Viking
vessel.


"The accidental discovery has generated great interest, because
it is the first such discovery in Ireland and much of the wreck
is intact.


"As well as the vessel itself, the find also includes a number of
very well preserved cargo barrels, rigging components and
personal possessions of the crew.


"Such finds will over the coming months and years open a window
on an important part of life in Ireland in the 16th century when
water-borne trade and transport were the lifeblood of medieval
towns like Drogheda," Roche said.


Usually ancient wrecks are preserved in situ but the Boyne vessel
is in mid- stream, so it cannot be left there.


Archaeologists have excavated and recorded the vessel to the
fullest extent possible underwater and the team will now seek to
recover as much of the wreck as possible on a timber by timber
basis.


"There is some possibility that larger intact wooden sections may
be recoverable but this will only become apparent as the
operation proceeds," Roche said.


"The wreck will be conserved for further analysis and ultimately
it is hoped to put it on public display."


Archaeologists in the heritage ministry are carrying out an
inventory of wrecks in the country's rivers, lakes and around the
coastline.


There are thought to be as many as 12,000.


The high number of wrecks is a result of the country being an
island that imported many of its needs for centuries, suffered
invasions and is close to major international shipping routes.

