

Iran and the United States held talks "at the level of experts"
Friday on the sidelines of a meeting on Iraq's security, Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said.


"Today, there was meeting on the sidelines of the conference, at
an expert level not a ministerial one, between the American side
and the Iranian side," he told a news conference.


"It was the ambassadors and members of the delegations that met,"
Zebari said, without revealing the officials' identities.


Asked if hopes for rapprochement between the United States and
Iran had been dashed after Iran accused the US of terrorist acts
in Iraq, Zebari insisted the ambassador-level talks were a
"positive sign".


"There had been no meeting planned between the US Secretary of
State and (Iran's) foreign minister. There was nothing planned
beforehand. But the meeting took place. And that is what was
important, it was a beginning," he said.


During a speech earlier, Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki accused the US of terrorist acts in Iraq.


"To create a safe haven for those terrorists who try to turn
Iraqi territory into a base for attacking Iraq's neighbours
should be condemned," Mottaki said.


A spokesman for the Iranian delegation at the two-day conference
on Iraq being held in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh
confirmed that Mottaki was referring to the United States.


"Mr Mottaki was referring to countries which, like the United
States, carry out acts of terrorism in Iraq," he told AFP.


"When the United States arrests five Iranian diplomats in Iraq,
it is an act of terrorism," he said on condition of anonymity.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, told reporters
at the Pentagon that American forces were holding seven Iranians
captured in Iraq as suspected members of the covert Qods Forces
of Iran's Revolutionary Guard.


On January 11, US troops dropped from helicopters and stormed an
Iranian liaison office in Arbil, the capital of the northern
Iraqi Kurdistan region, and detained six employees, one of whom
was later released.


The United States has said the men had links to Iran's elite
Revolutionary Guards and none of them held diplomatic passports.


It is not clear where and when the other two Iranian detainees
mentioned by Petraeus were arrested.


In his speech Mottaki described the detention of the Iranians as
a "brazen contravention of international conventions, the breach
of Iraq's sovereignty and obvious dishonouring of the Iraqi
people and government."

