

The Netherlands said Friday it will appeal against a Swiss court
ruling that it could not recover a ransom of nearly one million
euros paid to free a kidnapped MSF relief worker in Russia.


Dutch citizen Arjan Erkel was abducted in the Russian republic of
Dagestan, near Chechnya in August 2002 while on an aid mission
and held for 20 months.


The kidnappers demanded a ransom of one million euros (1.4
million dollars), and Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without
Borders, MSF) reportedly paid 230,000 euros while the Dutch
foreign ministry raised 770,000 euros.


On March 15 the court in the Swiss city of Geneva ruled that MSF
did not have to pay back the Dutch state, following legal action
by the Dutch government against the aid agency.


MSF called Friday's appeal "outrageous" and warned in a statement
that it "could have a negative impact on the security of all aid
organisations working in war zones."


The Dutch foreign ministry said in a press release that it was
launching the appeal as a matter of principle.


"The ruling gives the impression that the Dutch state helps with
paying ransoms," the ministry said.


"The Netherlands maintains its position that it never negotiates
with kidnappers and never pays ransoms," it added.


The Hague has always said that the money raised to free Erkel was
a loan to MSF.


MSF accused the Dutch government of "relentless legal obstinacy"
on Friday, claiming that the Geneva court had underlined that it
would be "inappropriate", in the interest of victims of conflicts
as well as aid workers, to create a jurisprudence on kidnapping
issues.


The relief agency added that the decision to appeal "is a grave
political act that contradicts the publicly claimed commitment of
the Dutch Government to support humanitarian action."


MSF has claimed the money it raised was a loan to the Dutch
government.


The organisation also insists that it never pays ransoms in order
to prevent their aid workers from becoming likely kidnap targets.


The dispute is fought out before the Swiss courts because Erkel
was employed by the Swiss branch of MSF.


The Dutch foreign ministry said it expected it would take at
least a year before the appeal is heard.

