

Iran accused the United States of terrorist acts in Iraq during
an international meeting on Friday aimed at discussing security
cooperation in the war-torn country.


"To create a safe haven for those terrorists who try to turn
Iraqi territory into a base for attacking Iraq's neighbours
should be condemned," Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki
said at the conference.


A spokesman for the Iranian delegation at the two-day conference
on Iraq being held in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh
confirmed that Mottaki was referring to the United States.


"Mr Mottaki was referring to countries which, like the United
States, carry out acts of terrorism in Iraq," he told AFP.


"When the United States arrests five Iranian diplomats in Iraq,
it is an act of terrorism," he said on condition of anonymity.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, told reporters
at the Pentagon that American forces were holding seven Iranians
captured in Iraq as suspected members of the covert Qods Forces
of Iran's Revolutionary Guard.


On January 11, US troops dropped from helicopters and stormed an
Iranian liaison office in Arbil, the capital of the northern
Iraqi Kurdistan region, and detained six employees, one of whom
was later released.


The United States has said the men had links to Iran's elite
Revolutionary Guards and none of them held diplomatic passports.


It is not clear where and when the other two Iranian detainees
mentioned by Petraeus were arrested.


The arrests came amid continued accusations by US commanders that
Tehran is arming Shiite militias and inciting anti-US attacks.


Tehran denies any involvement in the violence, while complaining
that armed Iranian opposition groups such as Pejak -- a Kurdish
guerrilla movement -- are allowed to operate from Iraqi soil.


In his speech Mottaki described the detention of the Iranians as
a "brazen contravention of international conventions, the breach
of Iraq's sovereignty and obvious dishonouring of the Iraqi
people and government."


Mottaki's comments appeared to dash hopes of a rapprochement
between Iran and the US, whose top diplomats had a brief exchange
over lunch on Thursday.


Speculation had mounted in recent days over possible direct talks
between Rice and Mottaki, in what would have been the highest-
level bilateral discussions between the two countries since they
broke off ties in 1980.

