

Religious leaders condemned US forces for taking the lives of
"innocents" in Friday prayers in parts of Afghanistan where
dozens of civilians were allegedly killed in anti-militant
operations this week.


"The Americans are like the Russians," a preacher said in the
western city of Herat, referring to the Soviet occupiers who were
driven out in 1989 after a brutal 10-year resistance, referred to
as a jihad (holy war).


"The Russians used to kill women and children and Americans do
the same. Jihad is (a) must against them," said the cleric,
Ghulam Sakhi, at the city's Khirqa Sharif mosque.


Afghan and UN investigations have found that about 50 civilians
were killed in US Special Forces, Afghan and US-led coalition
operations, including bombing, in Herat province last Friday and
Sunday.


The coalition, which initially said only 136 Taliban fighters
were killed, has opened an investigation into the claims.


Another Herat mullah, Eshaq Akhlaqi at Sadiqia mosque, told his
1,000-strong congregation foreign forces must plan their
operations with Afghan troops, warning of "dire consequences" if
they did not.


President Hamid Karzai made a similar statement Wednesday,
warning "the patience of the Afghan people is wearing thin with
the continued killing of innocent civilians."


Mullah Ali Azghar Rohani told AFP in the city that the repeated
"irresponsible" killing of civilians showed a lack of respect.


"Though the Americans try to show a good face, the killing of
innocent people, women, children and other atrocities they commit
show their real faces," he said.


In the eastern city of Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province,
provincial council deputy director Abul Aziz Khair Khowa told a
congregation, "such repeated killings of innocent people by
coalition forces show they do not care about Afghan lives."


There were three demonstrations near the city this week alleging
coalition soldiers killed six civilians on Sunday.


The coalition says it killed four militants in a raid on a
suspected suicide bombing cell and two civilians were killed in
the crossfire.


There have been repeated allegations about military operations in
Nangarhar.


"The government must not let this happen again or it will create
a big distance between the government and people," Khowa said at
the Turkhan Hada mosque.

