

Negotiations to form a new government in Serbia three months
after inconclusive legislative elections have stalled over the
attribution of key security posts, President Boris Tadic said
Friday.


Outgoing Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has demanded that his
Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) take the interior ministry and
the BIA intelligence agency, according to reports.


But Tadic told the FoNet news agency that "one party, in this
case the DSS, cannot control both police and the BIA at the same
time."


Those positions are seen as crucial power centres in the
government as it handles two critical issues: the impending final
status of Kosovo; and Serbia's bid for EU membership, which has
been frustrated by its refusal to hand over war crimes suspects.


Kostunica's DSS and Tadic's Democrats, along with the liberal G17
Plus party, have been holding negotiations on forging a ruling
coalition after January 21 elections left no party with an
outright majority in the 250-seat parliament.


The ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party won the most seats,
81, but no mandate, leaving the other parties to struggle to form
a government. The Democrats hold 65 seats, the DSS has 47 and the
G17 Plus has 19.


In a tense meeting late Thursday, Kostunica told Tadic that he
was demanding the security posts because of pressure by the chief
prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia, Carla Del Ponte, over Serbia's longstanding inability
to produce wanted war crimes suspects.


"I will not let Carla Del Ponte rule my state," the Blic
newspaper quoted Kostunica as telling Tadic.


The European Union froze a Stabilisation and Association
Agreement (SAA) with Belgrade a year ago chiefly over its failure
to surrender former Bosnian Serb army chief Ratko Mladic,
believed to be hiding in Serbia, to the UN war crimes court.


Under Serbia's constitution, parties have until May 14 to form a
new government or else new elections must be called.


Marko Blagojevic, an analyst at a prominent non-governmental
organisation, the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, said:
"In case of new elections, the result would probably be bad for
these parties as they would be recognised by voters as being
incapable of making an agreement."


He added that, "the Radicals and other parties that weren't
involved in these talks would benefit the most in the new
elections."


The Serbian parliament, is scheduled to meet on Monday to address
the crisis.

