

Thomson Corporation is in talks to buy British financial data and
news provider Reuters Group Plc, the Globe and Mail newspaper
reported Friday, citing unnamed sources close to the companies.


However, the bid is not a reaction to the Rupert Murdoch-
controlled News Corp bid for Dow Jones & Co., owner of The
Wall Street Journal in a rapidly consolidating media market, as
has been suggested, the Toronto-based newspaper said.


"Thomson is a big thoughtful company that makes long-range plans
and doesn't do hostile deals," one source told the newspaper.
"Reuters is not an instant decision on Thomson's part."


Thomson sees a complementary fit with Reuters, a "hand-in-glove
opportunity," another source said.


Both firms provide electronic financial data, and a merger would
combine Thomson's strong presence in the United States with
Reuters' popularity in Britain and in continental Europe.


Jason Stewart, vice-president of public relations for Thomson
refused to comment, telling AFP: "Thomson does not comment on
rumors and speculation."


But Reuters on Friday reported a takeover approach from an
unnamed suitor -- just three days after global media titan
Murdoch's News Corp. launched a shock bid for the British media
giant's US rival Dow Jones.


The news sent Reuters' share price rocketing more than 30 percent
as media industry experts speculated that Thomson, US Internet
titan Google, and the private equity sector could all be in the
frame.


"The board of Reuters confirms it has received a preliminary
approach from a third party which may or may not lead to an offer
being made for Reuters," the British group said in a statement to
the London Stock Exchange.


Thomson was founded by Lord Roy Thomson of Fleet, Britain, who
grew a handful of Canadian newspapers into a global media empire
that once included The Scotsman, The Times of London, and The
Globe and Mail.


Roy Thomson passed away in 1976, and was succeeded as chair by
his son Kenneth, who himself died in 2006.


In 2003, the company sold its remaining stake in Bell Globemedia
Inc. to another Thomson family-controlled firm, Woodbridge
Company Ltd., exiting the newspaper business.


The family, now headed by David Thomson, is presently the world's
10th richest, according to Forbes magazine, worth 22 billion
dollars.


Thomson's bid for Reuters comes as it finalizes the disposal of
its Thomson Learning educational division, which sells textbooks
and educational software. The deal is expected to close by
September for as much as six billion dollars.


Because of that sale, Thomson "has sufficient funds and
sufficient credit lines to acquire Reuters," Denis Durand, senior
partner at Montreal-based Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. told the Globe
and Mail.


"It would be possible and a good fit, but it's always a question
of price and how fast it can have an impact on earnings," he
said.


Reuters' current stock market capitalization stands at some 7.7
billion pounds (11.3 billion euros, 15.3 billion dollars).


Reuters' key competitors for financial news are US rivals Dow
Jones and Bloomberg, and Thomson -- which bought financial news
provider AFX from Agence France-Presse (AFP) last year.


Thomson Financial's chief source of revenues is market data,
which is also a major part of Reuters' business.


Thompson employs 32,000 people in 37 countries and reported
revenues of 6.7 billion in 2006, eight percent over the prior
year.


Reuters was created in 1851 by German-born Paul Julius Reuter who
started out by using pigeons to fly stock prices between Aachen
in Germany and Brussels. The company now employs around 16,900
staff in 94 countries.

