

Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard is close to signing a new four-
deal at the club, believed to be worth 120,000 pounds per week.


Following Liverpool's penalty shoot-out victory over Chelsea in
midweek that set them up for a repeat Champions League final
against AC Milan, new co-owner Tom Hicks said: "I cannot see
Steven Gerrard playing for another club."


Now the 26-year-old has said he wants to commit his long-term
future to the club he has been at since his school days.


"Tom Hicks has said he cannot see me playing for another club,
and yes, I'm in talks to extend my contract at Liverpool and I've
never been happier with my football," Gerrard told the official
Liverpool website.


"I'd love nothing better than to get this contract sorted and
signed, so I can understand where he's coming from.


"We need to keep all of our big players here so it's very
important we get the contracts sorted out so they can be here for
a long time."


Only two years ago Gerrard penned his name to a four-year deal
that warded off interest from Chelsea.


But his new deal is set to bring him up to a par with the English
Premiership's highest earners.


That means he can concentrate on facing Milan in Athens on May
23, with his future secure.


"I'm confident we can go to Athens and bring the cup back home.


"But Milan are a fantastic team and we know it's going to be
really difficult, so we need to be right at the top of our game.


"I was really surprised actually that they won their semi-final
because I had confidence that Manchester United would get the
result they required.


"I thought it was going to be a Liverpool-Manchester United
final, but credit to Milan because they were excellent on the
night and deserved to win the game."


Two years ago Liverpool came back from 3-0 down at half-time to
eventually beat Milan on penalties to lift the Champions League
for the fifth time - Milan have six victories in the competition.


In Italy, all the talk is of gaining revenge for that
disappointment.


"Now I am sure Milan will want to make amends for 2005 because
I'm sure Istanbul hurt them," said Gerrard. "They have a chance
for revenge now but me and the boys are going to be ready for
that and we're looking forward to it.


"They have some quality players like (Gennaro) Gattuso who work
really hard for the team but we'll be ready for them on the
night. I'm confident we can beat them.


"Obviously I'm very excited. I don't think it's sunk in yet and
probably won't until we set off for Athens, and we have got a
couple of domestic games first before we start our preparations
for the big final.


"But we've got nothing to fear from Milan, we've been there and
done it before. We've got a fantastic team spirit, the team is
playing really well in Europe and we've got one of the best
managers in the world so we have every confidence that we can do
it."

