

Has the Turkish economy come of age?


The country's financial markets, battered by crises over the past
decades, this week displayed what analysts said was an impressive
degree of maturity and resiliency in the face of a tense stand-
off between the government and the army.


Tensions peaked last Friday when parliament held an inconclusive
first-round vote to elect the next president in which the sole
candidate was a former Islamist opposed by thousands of secular
protestors.


Within hours, the armed forces, which have toppled four
governments since 1960, threatened intervention to protect the
secular nature of Turkish society. The government responded by
sharply calling the military to order.


That exchange rocked the markets. The Istanbul stock exchange
plummeted 8.0 percent at the opening on Monday and the national
currency, the lira, took a major hit.


But the damage remained limited as the country's top court
annulled the first- round vote and parliament approved a
government call to bring legislative elections forward from
November to July 22.


Both the stock market and the lira have since regained some of
their losses.


"In 2001, a conflict between the president and the prime minister
... was enough to start a huge financial crisis," said Ahmet
Insel, an economist at Galatasaray University.


"Today there is a new hand of cards ... The foundations of the
economy are more solid, which means that the semi-chaos we are
experiencing right now does not panic the stock market."


When the president and the prime minister clashed in 2001, the
subsequent political chaos plunged the fragile economy into one
of its worst-ever recessions and sent the country running for
help from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).


General elections a year later brought the ruling Justice and
Development Party to power on its own, thus providing crucial
political stability to implement tough economic reforms that led
to a spectacular economic recovery over the past five years.


Inflation, which stood at 29.7 percent in 2002, was reduced to
9.65 percent in 2006, and economic growth averaged more than 7.0
percent between 2003 and 2006, compared with an average of 2.6
percent in the decade leading to 2002.


Foreign direct investment (FDI) was around 20 billion dollars
last year, compared to an average 1.1 billion dollars in the
decade to 2002, and public debt stock was reduced to 45 percent
of gross national product in 2006 from 78 percent in 2002.


"We are impressed by the calm on the markets. The economic
players are very attracted to Turkey so that the usual volatility
of money does not really play a role," said a European economic
analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity.


Yves-Marie Laouenan, president of the French-Turkish Chamber of
Commerce, said the cancelletion of the presidential vote and
early elections allowed the country to escape political deadlock
and a serious economic crisis.


Turkish leaders have postponed a showdown on the presidential
election, thus giving the parties more time to reflect, he said.


"We have the impression that a soft landing is much more possible
than before, that there is more maturity," he commented.


Nonetheless, analysts said, there were still risks.


"Uncertainty will continue. As long as the electoral process is
not over, something may worry economic players and cause them to
leave the Turkish market quickly," a European financial analyst
said on condition of anonymity.


Since Turkey largely attracts short-term investments to finance
its needs, a loss of confidence may trigger a mass exodus -- a
characteristic Insel of Galatasaray University described as the
"soft belly" of the Turkish economy.


"The Turkish economy shows great resilience ... Even if there are
significant moves on the financial market, it will not greatly
affect the growth of the actual economy," the European financial
analyst said, pointing to growing foreign investment and exports.

