

China's Liang Wen-chong battled to a one-under-par 71 to retain
his overnight lead at the halfway stage of the GS Caltex Maekyung
Open on Friday.


After opening his campaign at Nam Seoul Country Club with a
sizzling 64, Liang failed to keep his game firing on all
cylinders as he swapped four birdies against three bogeys for a
two-day total of nine-under-par 135.


Liang is being chased by exciting Korean prospect Kim Kyung-tae,
last year's Asian Games double gold medallist, who charged into
contention with 66 to lie one stroke behind in the 600,000-dollar
Asian Tour event.


Australian rookie Mitchell Brown added a 73 to his opening 66 to
share third place with local stalwarts Shin Yong-jin and Lee
Gung-hee on 139, four off the pace, while title holder Suk Jong-
yul will enter the weekend rounds a massive eights shots back
after carding a level par 72.


Liang, second on the Asian Tour's UBS Order of Merit, was let
down by his ball- striking, which led to three dropped shots on
the seventh, ninth and 18th holes. He sank birdies on the eighth,
13th, 15th and 17th holes.


"It was a tougher day for me as I didn't drive the ball well and
my irons were also off the mark," said Liang, who won the
Clariden Leu Singapore Masters in March.


"To drop three bogeys was disappointing. I wasn't especially
happy with the bogey on par five ninth as I thought I hit a good
first putt (for birdie). The ball eventually ended up 15 feet
away and I ended up with a bogey."


The 28-year-old is gunning for a second title in three months.
With four top-10s to his name already this season, a victory on
Sunday would also enhance Liang's chances of winning the
prestigious UBS Order of Merit crown.


Kim, 20, wrapped up his amateur career in style last December by
leading Korea to the team gold medal in the Asian Games in Doha
as well as lifting individual honours.


He turned professional after the government exempted him from
national service in recognition of his feats.


In his debut at the star-studded Johnnie Walker Classic in Phuket
in March, he finished tied 37th and last week won his first title
as a professional on the domestic tour.


Now, he has set his sights on a maiden Asian Tour victory after a
round that included six birdies and one eagle.


"In the first day, I didn't putt well but today, it worked out so
much better. I thought the pins were also in easier spots which
helped me shoot a good round," said Kim, who enjoyed an outward
31.


"I'm looking forward to the weekend. It'll be important day
tomorrow as you want to get into a good position come Sunday."

