

England captain Michael Vaughan is likely to miss at least the
first Test against West Indies starting May 17 after suffering a
broken finger playing for Yorkshire against Hampshire.


Vaughan, who has missed his country's previous 15 Test matches
due to a catalogue of other injuries, suffered an undisplaced
fracture of his right middle finger after being struck by a
delivery from Hampshire's Australian seamer Stuart Clark on
Thursday.


The injury is likely to keep Vaughan out for three to four weeks,
making him a near-certainty to miss out for the first Test at
Lord's and also for the second Test on his home Headingley ground
starting on May 25.


But the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said they would
maintain a watching brief.


"Vaughan will undergo further assessment ahead of the first Test
match against the West Indies at Lord's on May 17," the board
said in a statement.


Yorkshire physio Scott McAllister told the Yorkshire Post: "My
first reaction was that it wasn't a serious problem, but results
from the hospital show that he has suffered a fractured finger.


"It's desperately bad luck for Michael after the succession of
problems he's had to contend with, and we will be monitoring his
progress over the next few days.


"It looks like he might be out for three to four weeks, but it's
too early to say with absolute certainty how long he will be out
for."


Vaughan recovered from a hamstring problem in time to play for
England in their disappointing World Cup campaign where he once
again failed to convince as a one-day batsman. Prior to that he
was sidelined by a string of career- threatening knee injuries.


In a further blow for England, seam bowler Jon Lewis will undergo
surgery on his left ankle next Thursday.


The Gloucestershire bowler, named in England's 25-strong
performance squad this summer, has been advised to have the
operation to remove bits of bone.


Following surgery Lewis will undergo intensive rehabilitation
which, Gloucestershire hope, will allow the player to return
within eight to 12 weeks.


"This seems like the best solution for Jon's ankle, and hopefully
will resolve the issues that have been causing him problems over
the winter months," said Gloucestershire physiotherapist Steve
Griffin.


"The rehabilitation process following the surgery is very
important and we will not be rushing Jon back until he is
completely ready."

