

Speculation is mounting over what Prime Minister Tony Blair will
do after his expected departure from office, with one report
Friday suggesting he could become a roving envoy in the Middle
East or Africa.


Other rumours swirling around London include a revival of the
idea that he could become the new European Union president, while
others say he will simply write his memoirs and sit back and rake
in the royalties.


Blair, who this week marked 10 years in power and turns 54
Sunday, is set to announce his departure plans next week, and is
expected to hand over to likely successor Gordon Brown, Britain's
finance minister, in late June or early July.


The Daily Telegraph newspaper said Blair is to spurn the chance
to earn 10 million pounds (20 million dollars) on the
international lecture circuit and focus on raising money for a
new Blair Foundation, funding aid work in Africa.


It also said he has agreed to a request from US President George
W. Bush to fly into the Middle East when asked as a special envoy
to try to revive the stalled peace process.


"The Middle East and especially Palestine have always been close
to his heart," the paper quoted a source from Blair's Downing
Street office as saying. "It is true he has discussed not going
straight on the lecture circuit."


But Downing Street downplayed the front-page report in the
traditionally Conservative-supporting paper, although it did not
formally deny it.


"This is all complete speculation. The prime minister is just
getting on with the job in hand," said a spokesman.


On Thursday, Downing Street had dismissed a report that Blair
would announce next week that he is standing down as a lawmaker,
as well as Labour leader and prime minister.


"The announcement next week will be solely about the prime
minister as leader of the Labour Party," his official spokesman
said. "He has made no decision whatsoever to stand down as an
MP."


Blair is widely expected to announce next week, probably either
Wednesday or Thursday, the timetable for his departure as Labour
leader, and therefore as prime minister.


His actual departure will come after a seven-week election
process within the Labour Party to designate his successor, with
Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown the overwhelming favourite to
become the leader.


Blair has so far refused almost all comment on his future after
he leaves 10 Downing Street, beyond saying that he wants to do
something useful, probably at at international level.


The Financial Times, also citing Downing Street sources, suggests
that Blair has not ruled out the possibility of becoming EU
president in two years' time.


The 27-member bloc is currently grappling with how to replace its
all-but-dead constitution, which among other things would have
established a longer-term EU president instead of the current
six-month rotating presidency.


The FT says Blair would be very frustrated to leave the European
stage, having forged strong links with German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.


Meanwhile mass-market newspapers question whether he will write
his memoirs -- even though he has said he has not kept a diary
during his time in Downing Street,  or by going on the
international speaker circuit like Bill Clinton.


It is also known that Blair is preparing to renovate the vast
town house which he has brought in a central London square,
fueling speculation about what he plans to do with that.

