

US employers added 88,000 jobs in April, the government said
Friday, as employment growth slowed to its weakest reading since
November 2004.


The unemployment rate ticked up a notch to 4.5 percent, in line
with most analysts' forecasts, from 4.4 percent a month earlier,
the Labor Department said.


The slowdown in nonfarm payroll hiring, seen as one of the best
indicators of economic momentum, was worse than expected. Most
analysts had expected employers to add at least 100,000 new
positions last month.


"It was a generally weaker report with some underlying weakness,"
said Ian Morris, chief US economist at HSBC North America in New
York.


Additionally, the job picture for recent months was also
downgraded as the government revised lower its estimate for March
job growth to show 177,000 new jobs were created instead of
180,000 as initially forecast, and for February to 90,000 from
113,000.


The sharp slowdown in job growth was fairly widespread across the
job market, as manfacturing shed 19,000 jobs, and job losses in
the retail sector, especially large stores, amounted to 26,000
posts.


"The report was disappointing not only for the lack of job gains,
but also for where the weaknesses were, in particular the retail
sector was weak perhaps suggesting that US consumers are pulling
back a little bit, and that will have implications for growth
going forward," observed Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman
Brothers.


US consumers have shown signs of tightening their belts of late,
consumer spending rose just 0.3 percent in March, amid a
lingering housing market slump and high gasoline prices.


Economists track consumer behaviour closely because it accounts
for some two- thirds of all US economic growth.


The job declines were offset by gains in other industries,
particularly the service sector which boasted job growth of
24,000 new positions last month.


The report comes amid a weakening of other economic gauges and
days before the Federal Reserve meets to review US interest rates
on May 9.


The central bank has left its base federal funds rate anchored
firmly at 5.25 percent since June. Most analysts, including
Morris and Matus, expect the Fed to keep its fed funds rate
unchanged at the meeting.


The job report also comes after the government said in late April
that growth in the world's biggest economy slowed dramatically to
a 1.3 percent annualized clip during the first quarter.


However, the stock market has been riding a wave of bullish
optimism as share gauges have rocketed with the leading Dow Jones
Industrial Average setting fresh record highs almost daily in
recent weeks.


Despite worries about some pillars of the economy, corporate
profits ballooned in the first quarter and the stock market has
also been bolstered by a glut of private-equity fueled takeovers
and mergers.


Friday's job report showed average hourly wages rose 0.2 percent
in April to 17.25 dollars, a shade weaker than Wall Street
predictions which had called for a gain of 0.3 percent.


Economists said the wage data would likely please Fed
policymakers as it suggests inflation is under control.


Earnings have risen 3.7 percent in the past year.


The average workweek fell slightly to 33.8 hours in April from
33.9 in the prior month.

