

French oil giant Total on Friday reported an 11-percent drop in
net adjusted profit to 2.992 billion euros (4.057 billion
dollars) from 3.376 billion in the same period last year, and
revised downwards its production growth target for this year.


Total blamed the fall in profits on a decrease in oil and gas
prices and maintenance shut-downs at refineries.


"The first quarter of 2007 was marked by a six percent drop in
the price of Brent (oil) compared to last year," to 58 dollars a
barrel and "a big drop of the price of gas in Britain," Total
said in a statement.


The adjusted profit measure excludes non-recurring elements and
is considered by analysts and the company as a more accurate
reflection of performance.


Bottom-line net profit fell 17 percent to 3.049 billion euros.


Sales for the first quarter were 37.043 billion euros, down three
percent year- on-year.


Total said its performance was "among the best in the industry,"
showing its ability to maintain the quality of its portfolio and
step up growth despite "continued pressure from rising costs."


The group said it is pursuing its strategy of profitable growth
over the long term, with increased efforts in research and
development and improvements to refining and petrochemical
facilities.


The group said it expects production growth to be "substantial"
in 2007, due to the start-up of the Dalia field in Angola, which
will be followed by Rosa and Dolphin in Angola and Qatar
respectively.


However, it said growth should be lower than the six percent
forecast given at the publication of its full-year 2006 results
earlier this year, due to shortfalls in Azerbaijan and Venezuela
and persistent uncertainty in Nigeria, which has been hit by a
wave of hostage takings of oil workers.


Nonetheless, for the period through to 2010, Total said it was
confident of meeting its target of more than five percent
production growth on average.


It also said that oil prices have moved higher since the start of
the second quarter, boosting average margins in comparison with
the first quarter.


On the Paris stock exchange in late morning trade Total shares
lost 0.41 percent to 55.43 euros, as the market rose 0.13 percent
overall.

