

Individuals have an important role to play in tackling global
warming, not just governments and industry, experts said here
Friday as they called for people to change their lifestyles.


Taking the train to work instead of driving, turning the
temperature up a degree or two on the office air conditioner and
eating less meat are just some of the options to consider in the
fight against global warming, they said.


Lifestyle change was one key issue highlighted in a landmark
report released here on Friday by the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change that looked at ways to save the world from the
worst impacts of global warming.


"Changes in lifestyle and behaviour patterns can contribute to
climate change mitigation across all sectors," said the final
report, which was agreed on by delegates from 120 nations at the
week-long IPCC meeting.


But the experts said lifestyle changes did not mean people in
rich or poor nations had to suffer or go without.


"It's not a matter of sacrifice. It's a matter of change. We can
do development in a much more sustainable way than we have done
in the past," said Ogunlade Davidson, a co-chair of the IPCC
working group.


"You can achieve a low greenhouse gas emission lifestyle and
still get the same economic benefits."


IPCC chairman Rajendra Pachauri called on people to follow former
US president Jimmy Carter's call in the 1970s for people use less
heating at home during the winter, and instead wear a cardigan.


He also said former Japanese prime minister Junichiro Koizumi
should be commended for encouraging people in Japan to discard
their neck ties in the office during the summer so air
conditioners did not have to be turned up so high.


One other option people should consider is to become a
vegetarian, Pachauri said, although he emphasised this was his
personal view and not an option put forward in the IPCC's report.


"If people were to eat less meat perhaps they would be healthier.
At the same time you cut out a lot of the emissions associated
with the beef cycle," he said.


"Right from the moment you produce meat, then you transport it,
refrigerate it and sell it to the retail store (greenhouse gas
emissions are produced)."


Pachauri said these were examples of "lifestyle changes where you
are not giving up anything."


"In fact you might actually gain by taking some of these
measures. We are asking society to reflect on this," he said.

