

Slipping in the polls ahead of France's presidential vote Sunday,
Socialist Segolene Royal launched a last-minute broadside against
right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, warning his election would unleash
violence across the country.


In her most outspoken attack yet on Sarkozy's "dangerous
candidacy", Royal said she had a "responsibility to issue an
alert over the risks ... regarding the violence and brutalities
that will be triggered across the country. Everyone knows it but
no-one says it. It is a kind of taboo."


Her comments Friday on RTL radio were taken as a direct warning
to voters that a Sarkozy victory on Sunday could set off riots in
the high-immigration suburbs similar to ones in November 2005.


Royal was immediately rebuked by Sarkozy's campaign headquarters,
which described her remarks as "unacceptable and irresponsible."


"In a democratic debate, one cannot simply hold out threats and
intimidations with the aim of persuading voters to choose another
candidate," said spokeswoman Rachida Dati.


Sarkozy said Royal's attacks were "outrageous" and prompted by
her worsening position in the polls. "She is getting tense,
stiffer, because she feels the ground shifting," he said.


Four polls published since a televised debate on Wednesday have
confirmed Sarkozy's lead over Royal by between six and nine
percentage points. Three of the polls showed the lead increasing
after the crucial head-to-head, which was seen as a last chance
for Royal to reverse the trend.


The opponents are battling for the 6.8 million votes that went to
the defeated centrist candidate Francois Bayrou in the April 22
first round of the election.


According to a SOFRES poll, 51 percent of those who chose Bayrou
now say they will vote Sarkozy in round two -- an increase of
seven points from before the debate. In addition, 51 percent of
Bayrou voters found Sarkozy the more convincing in the debate,
compared to just 25 percent for Royal.


With the odds looking increasingly stacked against her, Royal
spent the last official day of campaigning in the western region
of Brittany, where she appealed to voters "not to let yourselves
by browbeaten by the polls."


Speaking in the city of Lorient, she launched another personal
attack on Sarkozy, saying "there is something indecent in this
campaign."


Sarkozy "is a candidate who has never stopped paying court to all
that is dark in human nature, who has never stopped whetting
every kind of fear and vengeance."


Instead the French should "turn towards the light. Reject the
spirit of vengeance, refuse the lies and the hate," she said.


Sarkozy finished his campaign on the Plateau de Glieres in
eastern France, which was the site of a decisive battle between
the French resistance and German troops in 1944. He promsied to
return to the spot every year if elected on Sunday.


France is choosing a successor to 74 year-old Jacques Chirac --
president since 1995 -- in an election that has become the focus
of impassioned debate about the country's future.


Sarkozy, 52 year-old head of the ruling Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP), promises right-wing reforms based on tax cuts,
incentives to work and a return to French "values". But enemies
see him as a divisive character who will "tear the social fabric"
of the country if elected.


Running a highly personal campaign as candidate of a revitalised
left, Royal, 53, is the first woman to have a serious chance of
becoming France's president, but since January she has been
consistently behind Sarkozy in the polls.


Opinions polls are banned from midnight Friday (2200 GMT) as
official campaigning ends. Voting starts Sunday at 8:00 a.m (0600
GMT) in mainland France. It is held a day early in French
overseas territories in the Americas.

