

Cycling chiefs on Friday agreed to a "sacred union" to fight
doping by stepping up random drugs tests in the run-up to the
Tour de France.


Most teams are also ready to drop riders while they are formally
implicated in the Spanish 'Operation Puerto' doping
investigation, said the president of the International Cycling
Union, Pat McQuaid, Tour de France chief Christian Prudhomme, and
Quick Step manager Patrick Lefevere, representing the teams.


Prudhomme said the meeting was a demonstration of "political
will" in an attempt to wipe out the notion that the sport was
rotten and dominated by doped riders, "because it's not true".


"We can only break out of that if we are together, and the
presence of the three of us on this issue is precisely the proof
of a sacred union in the fight against doping," he added.


"Cycling already has more measures than all the other sports
together in terms of fighting doping."


"So if there was a miracle, the problem would have been solved
ten years ago. But we didn't, and that shows there's a need for
(greater) will."


McQuaid said the two-pronged agreement, despite other differences
between teams, race organisers and cycling's governing body, was
a defining moment for the sport.


"Cycling is suffering, it's suffering hard now, with all the
affairs going on with Puerto, with Ullrich and with (Ivan) Basso
now... We've got to get all these affairs behind us, we've got to
get to the end of Puerto."


Teams, race organisers and the UCI will mount a joint legal
offensive in Spain to ensure that the Puerto case is pursued and
the evidence -- especially 6,000 pages of files -- is made
available to the sport.


Spanish magistrates have ruled out use of evidence from their
investigation for disciplinary cases by sports bodies until it is
completed.


Lefevere said most teams -- about 90 percent -- were ready not to
select about 50 riders formally implicated in the Puerto affair
but cautioned that there were legal issues involved.


"We will call on the teams to take their reponsibilities," he
said, adding that he could hardly imagine that the remaining 10
percent of teams would line-up controversial riders in the Tour
de France.


Random drugs tests, including out of competition, will be
increased in the run- up to the Tour de France and for the rest
of the year, McQuaid said.


"One front is Puerto. We all agreed we must get to the end of
Puerto, we must find out exactly who is involved in it.


"The other side is the fight against doping currently... so that
if any riders are thinking about it will think twice," he added.


However, the ICU chief underlined that cyclists were innocent
until proven guilty by full legal or disciplinary proceedings.


Prudhomme said none of the riders formally listed in Puerto
started the Liege- Bastogne-Liege classic last weekend.

