

Six Premiership clubs are mulling legal action against the
Premier League for failing to deduct points from West Ham over
the Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano transfer dispute,
according to Wigan's owner Dave Whelan.


The Premier League last week handed West Ham a 5.5-million-pound
fine, instead of a points deduction, for irregularities over the
two Argentinians last August.


"There's six clubs involved and I know there are three at present
receiving legal advice," Whelan, whose club is in a fight with
West Ham for Premiership survival, was quoted as saying in The
Guardian newspaper.


"You have owners involved as well as chairmen," he added. "You
have the likes of Middlesbrough, the likes of Fulham where the
owners, like myself, stay in the background. They have come
forward big-style to say 'we're not happy with this'."


Chief among those clubs is Sheffield United who admitted to
taking steps independently of other clubs to protect their own
future.


Sheffield United Plc chairman Kevin McCabe said he has already
instructed his lawyers to look into the case.


"There was no hanging around, no grass growing around our feet,"
McCabe told the Sheffield Star newspaper.


"We took this course of action independently of anyone else in an
attempt to try and protect ourselves should we suffer as a
consequence of this bizarre decision.


"We have some excellent and reputable lawyers who have already
been looking at this matter for us for a week.


"Obviously we hope that we don't suffer as a result, but we felt
this needed to be done."


Whelan feels the situation could be averted if West Ham do go
down - which he sees as a fitting punishment for breaking the
rules and their "blatant lies".


"Football should be decided on the football field, and I'm a big
believer in that," remarked Whelan.


"If we have to go to court then it will be a shame, but this is a
very, very serious offence West Ham have committed.


"I've no anger directed towards West Ham or their fans, apart
from the fact they told lies.


"Whether the people who told those lies are still there or not ,
I don't know.


"But West Ham have broken the rules and they should have had a
much stiffer penalty than 5.5million pounds - a figure that is
peanuts to the 35million pounds they will get if they stay up.


"They should have had what every other club would have got if
they had done this, and been punished properly with a 10-point
penalty.


"Good luck to them because they've got away with it, but I hope
in the end that justice prevails and they go down."


Whelan got a vote of confidence from Manchester United boss Alex
Ferguson, who on Friday backed the right of Premiership clubs to
seek legal advice over West Ham's punishment.


"It is nothing really to do with us but I do understand it," said
the Scot.


"They have every right to take advice on it because it was a
strange decision."


Given the devastating financial implications of sliding into the
Championship, Ferguson has total sympathy with all his fellow
managers who are scrapping for survival.


He may be embroiled in his own battle to win the title, but
Ferguson feels the pressure on those at the bottom far outweighs
that on himself.


And he feels particular sympathy for Wigan, who were the victim
of several debatable decisions by referee Phil Dowd at Arsenal,
which could have made all the difference in their fight for
survival.


"I feel for the clubs at the bottom," he said.


"The pressure on teams like ourselves doesn't compare with the
pressure those teams are under.


"Paul Jewell has done a fantastic job at Wigan but they have
never recovered from the decision that went against them at
Arsenal.


"You just hope they can get out of it. That is where the real
pressure comes as opposed to teams like us trying to win the
league."

