

The head of the Church of England said Monday that it should
consider paying reparations for its role in the slave trade from
money it received in compensation after their liberation.


But Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams said the mechanics of
paying financial compensation could be complex.


"While it sounds simple to say ... we should pass on the
reparation that was received in 1831 or whenever, exactly to
whom?" he mused in an interview with BBC radio.


"Exactly where does it go? And exactly how does it differ from
the various ways in which we try to interact now with the effects
of that in terms of aid and development and so forth?


"So I haven't got a quick solution to that. I think we need to be
asking the question and working at it. That, I think, we're
beginning to do."


The Church of England issued an apology last year for its
involvement in slavery.


Like many slave owners, it received compensation when slaves were
emancipated -- in one case in 1833, the bishop of Exeter and
three colleagues received nearly 13,000 pounds for the loss of
665 slaves.


Williams's Lambeth Palace office subsequently issued a statement
seeking to play down his comments.


"Reparations as such offer too mechanical and calculating a model
for making amends and there are seriously challenging questions
to be asked about what, under such proposals, should be paid and
to whom," it said.


"The point about moral responsibility is that the slave trade
yielded considerable profit for institutions -- but how that is
dealt with now means asking the wider question about how that
heritage is used to help most effectively those suffering because
of the legacy of slavery."


On Saturday, Williams and the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu,
led more than 1,000 people through the streets of London to mark
the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade.


The Abolition of the Slave Trade Act was passed on March 25,
1807, imposing a 100-pound fine for every slave found aboard a
British ship.


The 1833 Slavery Abolition Act outlawed slavery itself throughout
the British Empire. However, some slaves did not gain their final
freedom until 1838.


Prime Minister Tony Blair has expressed "deep sorrow" for
Britain's involvement in the slave trade but stopped short of a
full apology.

