

The Pakistan cricket team is being "kept in the dark" by Jamaican
police over the murder of coach Bob Woolmer, their spokesman
insisted Monday.


Pervez Mir said the "visibly disturbed" players were not being
given enough information on the investigation into a killing
which has sent shockwaves well beyond the world of cricket.


The Pakistan team are on a stopover rest period in London en
route home, rocked by being knocked out of the 2007 World Cup in
the Caribbean at the first hurdle and the murder of former
England international Woolmer, who was strangled in his room on
March 18.


"We assisted in whatever way they (the Jamaican police) wanted,
but we need an official statement from their office to notify us
officially as to what were the causes of Mr Woolmer's death," Mir
told reporters outside the team's hotel near London Heathrow
Airport.


"We heard on television that he was murdered, but we've not been
officially told and we need to know the reasons for his death."


He insisted that the Pakistan team remained ready to assist Mark
Shields, Jamaica's deputy commissioner of police, who is leading
the investigation in Kingston.


Mir said he left a message late Sunday on Shields' telephone
"because my chairman wants to know, my board wants to know,
what's going on as far as the investigation is concerned and what
the Jamaican police are doing to catch the killers of Mr
Woolmer."


Persistent rumours of match-fixing in connection with Woolmer's
strangling have cast a dark shadow over cricket and its four-
yearly World Cup.


Minnows Ireland beat former champions Pakistan by three wickets
in the Group D match on March 17 and Shields has said that the
betting odds given beforehand on the shock result would be
probed.


Mir said: "When a man has been murdered, to divert a murder
inquiry into a match-fixing inquiry, that's not fair, because we
have to find the killers, then we will know what's happened.


"To bring up the murky world of match-fixing, I think it's not
the right thing and not the right time."


Mir also attacked media suggestions of a strained relationship
between Woolmer and Pakistan captain Inzamam ul-Haq.


After they were fingerprinted, DNA-tested and questioned by
police, Shields gave the players the green light to leave
Jamaica. They flew out on Saturday and are due to fly from London
to Pakistan on Tuesday.


Mir said the players were looking forward to getting home "after
the traumatic experience they have seen in Jamaica and the loss
of their coach.


"They are all visibly disturbed, and some of the players have
broken down.


"The loss of such a good man, a person who has done so much for
the game of cricket, is a great loss."

