

Pakistan's foreign ministry on Monday asked the international
media to avoid "speculation and rumours" about the murder of
cricket coach Bob Woolmer at the World Cup.


Foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said rumours swirling
around Woolmer's death were increasing the trauma faced by the
team.


Her comments came after Mark Shields, the Jamaica police chief
probing Woolmer's strangling at his hotel, said in an interview
that he had let the team fly home from Jamaica to avoid a
diplomatic row.


"There are lot of speculations and rumours, some of them very
malicious. And we expect the media, international media
particularly, to show some sensitivity," Aslam said.


"Our players are already traumatised. They have lost somebody who
was very close to them, who was very dear to them, and these
speculations and rumours do not help. They aggravate their
situation. They do not help the investigations as well."


Investigators are studying videos from the hotel in Kingston,
Jamaica, where Woolmer, 58, and the rest of the Pakistan team
were staying at the time of the murder. Police have said he
probably knew his killer.


Pakistan's players have been fingerprinted, DNA-tested and
questioned by police, who called in three -- captain Inzamam-ul-
Haq, caretaker coach Mushtaq Ahmed and manager Talat Ali -- for
further questions before their departure.


Police say Woolmer was strangled in his room on March 18, a day
after World Cup minnows Ireland stunningly knocked Pakistan out
of a competition they had won in 1992.


Nagging rumors of match-fixing in connection with Woolmer's death
have cast a further shadow over the sport and the World Cup,
which officials said had to go on despite the killing.


Aslam said two Pakistani officials from its embassy in Washington
were sent to Jamaica to look after the team and liaise with
authorities. Pakistan awaited the result of the investigation but
so far there was no breakthrough, she said.


"As far as we know there has not been any breakthrough and
investigations are taking place. We are very keen that we get to
the bottom of this," she said.

