

Fraport, the company which operates Frankfurt airport, said on
Monday that it had signed a final agreement with chemicals
company Ticona over a piece of land on which Fraport wants to
build a new runway.


Fraport said in a statement that it had reached a final agreement
with Ticona, a unit of industrial chemicals giant Celanese,
whereby the group's Kelsterbach plant would be shut down,
dismantled and rebuilt elsewhere by 2013.


The plant employs a workforce of 900.


In return, Fraport had agreed to compensate Ticona with payment
of 670 million euros (891 million dollars), the statement said.


The agreement follows a long legal battle between Ticona and
Fraport, which insists that the construction of a fourth runway
is a vital part of its plans to expand Europe's second-busiest
airport after London Heathrow and secure thousands of jobs in the
region.


The conflict arose because Fraport wants to build the runway on a
piece of land next to the Ticona site, which would represent a
security risk because jets would be flying in and taking off at
heights just 70 metres over the chemicals plant.


Environmental protection groups are also strongly opposed to the
construction of an additional runway because it would require
clearing more than 160 hectares of protected forest and also
entail increased noise pollution for nearby inhabitants.


However, because of the security concerns, the Ticona plant had
been seen as the biggest legal hurdle to the constrution plans.


While air traffic in Europe continues to expand massively,
Frankfurt airport is already operating at the limit of its
capacity.


Fraport argues that a fourth runway could boost capacity by half
and the company is also planning to build a third terminal at the
airport. The total investment required for the group's expansion
plans is put at 3.2 billion euros.


Media reports have suggested that the Ticona plant could be
relocated to nearby Hoechst, the suburb of Frankfurt where
Celanese's former parent company, Hoechst, was located and from
which it took its name.

