

Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are to merge to create the
biggest British housebuilding group worth about 5.0 billion
pounds, they announced on Monday.


The deal to form Taylor Wimpey, with a market value of 7.4
billion euros or 9.8 billion dollars, is likely catapult the new
group into London's prestigious FTSE 100 index of leading
companies. The companies' share prices surged in London trade on
Monday.


The arrangement, amounting to a takeover by Taylor Woodrow, is
expected to be completed in mid-2007. Taylor Woodrow shareholders
will hold 51 percent of Taylor Wimpey and George Wimpey investors
will own 49 percent.


"The boards of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are pleased to
announce today that they have reached agreement on the terms of a
recommended all-share merger," the two firms said in a joint
statement.


They added: "The merger will enhance shareholder value by
creating a business with a strong strategic position in both the
UK and the chosen markets in North America."


Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey have significant operations in
the United States which are suffering from tough market
conditions.


However they have both benefited from a buoyant British housing
market, which is growing strongly despite a climate of rising
British interest rates and concern about a possible speculative
bubble.


Each company has agreed to pay either side a so-called break fee
of 24.5 million pounds, if the other side subsequently agrees
terms with another party.


Investors reacted warmly to news of the gigantic merger.


On London's second tier FTSE 250 index, Taylor Woodrow shares
rocketed 16.0 percent to 487.75 pence and George Wimpey jumped
6.14 percent to 674 pence.


Persimmmon, currently Britain's biggest house builder with a
capitalisation of about 4.3 billion pounds, saw its shares gain
4.14 percent to 1,458 pence, topping the FTSE 100.


Taylor Wimpey will have pro forma revenues totalling more than
6.7 billion pounds a year, while the merger will create 70
million pounds of annual synergies for a 60 million pound one-off
cost, the joint statement added.


The new group would build about 22,000 houses in Britain a year,
and about 9,000 in the United States. It would also have a
combined workforce of 14,000, but analysts warned of job cuts if
the deal is pushed through.


The two companies played down rumours that the deal would see job
losses of 10 percent.


George Wimpey chief executive Peter Redfern, who will lead the
new Taylor Wimpey, told reporters on a conference call:


"We've seen reported 10 percent of 14,000. That's the wrong end
of the stick. A large proportion of the savings are driven by
efficiencies on the build cost side and in procurement."


He added that less than five percent of the workforce -- about
700 staff -- might lose their jobs.


The US property market, meanwhile, has been struggling as lending
rates have increased and speculators have pulled out of what had
been a sizzling sector. A main focus has been "subprime" loans,
or mortgages marketed to people with poor credit histories, which
are currently seeing the worst problems.

