

The United States on Monday warned Iran against turning "a blind
eye" to its international obligations and urged Tehran to rethink
a threat to limit cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog
agency.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters after the Islamic republic
said it would curtail cooperation with the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA).


Tehran announced the move in apparent retaliation for the UN
Security Council's decision Saturday to impose new sanctions on
Iran after Tehran ignored repeated ultimatums to suspend uranium
enrichment.


The measures, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes bargaining,
block all Iranian arms exports and freeze the overseas assets of
28 additional officials and institutions linked to Iran's nuclear
and ballistic missile programs.


The council's action also restricts financial aid or loans to
Tehran, and sets a fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with
UN demands or face "further appropriate measures."


The council's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia, and the United States -- plus Germany have been pressing
Iran to return to talks aimed at allaying fears it seeks to
develop atomic weapons.


"We are united. Iran should suspend its enrichment and
reprocessing activities," said Perino. "The Iranian regime,
rather than comply with its UN Security Council obligations, is
turning a blind eye toward it and it's unfortunate for the
people."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Iran Sunday to accept an
offer of new talks, stressing: "If Iran is prepared to return to
the fold of the international community we are prepared to make
very generous offers to them."


And Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Kisliak said the
sanctions were "reversible" and emphasized "it is still possible
to resolve the Iranian question through political means,"
according to the Itar-Tass news agency.


Asked about a parallel dispute between London and Tehran over 15
British sailors Iran seized last week, Perino said: "Of course
it's serious.


"We stand by our British allies and I will reiterate that there
is no intention of going to war with Iran," the spokeswoman said.


The White House has said it sees no linkage between the sailors'
fate and pressure on Iran as UN inspectors seek greater access to
a key underground site for enriching uranium.


After the Council approved the new sanctions, a Tehran government
spokesman said it would no longer inform the nuclear watchdog of
new installations until six months before they are brought into
service.


It was not immediately clear how this would affect attempts to
monitor work on a plant at Natanz in central Iran. Iran is
building in Natanz an industrial-scale plant to make enriched
uranium, which can be used for nuclear fuel or as atom bomb
material.


"The international community is united in wanting to work with
Iran and there are all sorts of good intentions toward the
Iranian people as long as the Iranians live up to their
obligations under the international community's Security Council
resolution," Perino said.


Diplomats said Iran's decision to stop giving immediate
notification of its nuclear plant building plans means Tehran
could now work on new strategic sites without informing the IAEA,
which could help Iranian authorities to hide facilities from
possible military air strikes.


The United States, which charges that Iran's nuclear energy
program is a cover for secretly developing nuclear weapons, has
not ruled out military action.

