

German power giant E.ON said on Monday it was launching legal
action against rivals Enel of Italy and Acciona of Spain in the
increasingly acrimonious battle for Spanish electricity group
Endesa.


E.ON, which raised its bid for Endesa on Monday for the third
time to 43.2 billion euros (57 billion dollars), also said it was
launching legal actions alleging several serious breaches of
market rules to bar Enel and Acciona from launching a joint
counter bid.


E.ON alleged deception and insider trading, and demanded that
Acciona and Enel be forced to divest their shareholdings in
Endesa and also be prohibited from acquiring any Endesa shares.


Shortly after E.ON had raised its bid to 40 euros per share,
Acciona, a Spanish construction group, and Italian energy giant
Enel, said that they would come forward with an offer at least
one euro-a-share higher.


But E.ON immediately hit back, saying this was an "unlawful
attempt to deceive Endesa's shareholders and to manipulate the
price of Endesa stock."


The German group said it had filed a complaint with the Spanish
stock market authority, the CNMV, asking it to open "infringement
procedures against Acciona and Enel for market disruption, breach
of tender offer rules and insider trading."


The statement said: "Acciona and Enel should also be completely
barred by the CNMV from making any tender offer for Endesa, not
only for a certain period of time."


On Friday, the CNMV barred Acciona and Enel from making any offer
for Endesa for a period of six months.


Acciona became a shareholder of Endesa in September and currently
holds 21 percent of the company. Enel entered the race a few
weeks ago and now controls just under 25 percent.


Originally, Enel and Acciona had insisted that they were not
acting in concert.


But on Friday, the two groups said they were considering
launching a joint bid in a move seen as a concerted effort on the
part of the Italian and Spanish governments to torpedo E.ON's
chances of acquiring Endesa.


So far, the Italian and Spanish governments have repeatedly
insisted on their neutrality in the matter.


E.ON said it was also taking the matter to the courts in the US,
arguing that Acciona and Enel had breached US security laws by
making "misleading disclosures of their plans an arrangements
among each other and with other shareholders with respect to
Endesa."


E.ON said it would ask a federal court in New York that Acciona
and Enel be required to make "corrective disclosures and be
barred from purchasing or offering to purchase additional Endesa
shares."


Furthermore, "because Enel acquired its direct stake of 10
percent in Endesa in violation of US tender offer rules, we
contend that Enel should be required to offer rescission to the
shareholders from whom it purchased Endesa shares," E.ON said.


The German company's chief executive Wulf Bernotat said that the
CNMV's decision on Friday to bar Acciona and Enel from making a
bid for a period of six months was "welcome" but could only be
"the beginning of further proceedings and investigations which
should lead to appropriate sanctions.


"We are convinced that our increased offer at 40 euros per share
will be the only one for Endesa in the foreseeable future,"
Bernotat said.


E.ON has been trying to get its hands on Endesa for more than a
year, but its takeover bid has come up against strong resistance
from Spanish politicians and some of Endesa's other shareholders.

