

An Irish-born nun inspired by Mother Teresa expressed her joy
Monday after being awarded one of India's highest honours for her
decades of work with street children in Kolkata.


Sister Mary Cyril, 70, received India's fourth highest civilian
honour, the Padmashree (Lotus flower) at the weekend for a
programme at the century-old Loreto Day School where she helps
nearly 300 children.


"I am thankful to God as the honour has been conferred on me,"
Cyril told AFP. "This honour also belongs to my staff and the
children."


Born in 1936, Sister Cyril joined the Loreto order at 17 and
moved to India in 1956 to do a doctorate in zoology at Lucknow
University in northern India, and is now one of a handful of
Irish nuns still teaching in the country.


"Mother Teresa was a Loreto sister and so am I," Cyril said. "I
have been inspired by the deeds of Mother Teresa to take up the
work of educating the street children."


"When I see smiles on the faces of the street children, I
remember Mother Teresa and get courage to continue my mission."


Sister Cyril launched the programme in 1985 for a school-
within-a-school to educate the street children, many of whom work
to feed themselves.


"Street children enjoy the school facilities and are welcomed
into school at any time throughout the day convenient to them,"
she said.


"They are taught on a one-one-one basis by all the regular
students of the school from class five onwards each having two
periods per week."


Her office at the school is stacked with toys and books for the
children she calls "rainbows."


"I call them rainbows as they come and go as they like and it's a
very challenging job to give them education as most come from
broken families," she said. "What they need is a lot of care and
dedication to forget their sad memories."


Sister Cyril's role model, Mother Teresa, was awarded India's
highest civilian honor "the Bharat Ratna" or the "Jewel of India"
in 1980.


Born of Albanian parents in the Macedonian capital Skopje in
1910, Mother Teresa joined the Loreto order at the age of 18 and
came to India in 1931.


She founded her own order, the Missionaries of Charity, in
Calcutta in 1950 and earned the name of "Saint of the Gutters"
through her work with the destitute and disabled.


Mother Teresa died in 1997 and was beatified by the Vatican on
October 19, 2003, in one of the fastest beatifications in
Catholic history, setting her on the track to sainthood.

