

Thousands of opposition supporters Monday held fresh protests
against President Pervez Musharraf's removal of Pakistan's top
judge, despite the arrest of about 1,000 people in a police
crackdown.


Military ruler Musharraf is facing the most damaging political
crisis of his eight years in power since the suspension of chief
justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9.


Monday's protests were the first to be organised by an alliance
of the Pakistan People's Party of former prime minister Benazir
Bhutto and a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League party of Nawaz
Sharif, another former premier.


About 5,000 protesters chanting "Musharraf, Dog" and other
slogans gathered amid tight security near the high court in the
eastern city of Lahore, witnesses said. Some burned an effigy of
the president.


"This massive response to the opposition's protest call is the
beginning of a movement against President Musharraf and his
government," said Naheed Khan, a female legislator from Bhutto's
party.


Police said 4,000 officers were on guard in Lahore, including
special squads and police commandos, to monitor "miscreants."


Another 4,000 demonstrators rallied in Karachi, Pakistan's
biggest city, while 3,000 people in the southwestern city of
Quetta called on Musharraf to step down and allow the formation
of an interim government and free polls.


In the northwestern city of Peshawar the leader of Pakistan's
powerful coalition of Islamic parties, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, told
about 1,000 supporters that Musharraf had violated the
constitution.


"The only way out for him is to step down," Hussain said.


A separate public meeting held by secular parties in Peshawar
attracted around 6,000 flag-waving people, witnesses said.


Lawyers observed a strike in the central city of Multan and
boycotted courts on Monday.


Police made dozens of raids on opposition supporters in central
Punjab province at the weekend and overnight to keep the protests
from getting too large.


"We have arrested around 1,000 overnight and at the weekend.
Around 200-plus were in Lahore with the rest in Faisalabad,
Multan and other towns in Punjab," a senior police official said
on condition of anonymity.


Most were from the parties of Bhutto and Sharif.


The pair were bitter political rivals in the 1990s but formed an
uneasy alliance after their exile by Musharraf, and have seized
on popular discontent at Musharraf's sacking of justice Chaudhry.


Musharraf late Sunday urged opposition parties not to extract
"political mileage" from what he said was a purely constitutional
matter, a government statement said.


Chaudhry is due to appear before a panel of top judges on April 3
on misconduct charges including that he unfairly gained
promotions for his son. He denies any wrongdoing.


Critics say Musharraf sacked Chaudhry, who had delivered several
controversial rulings involving the government, to ensure a
pliant judiciary in the run-up to parliamentary and presidential
elections.

