

Banco Delta Asia (BDA), the Macau-based bank at the centre of US
financial sanctions against North Korea, Monday challenged the
United States over its money laundering allegations.


In a statement, BDA chairman Stanley Au hit out at claims that
many North Korean-related individuals and companies banking at
BDA had connections to entities involved in trading counterfeit
US currency, cigarettes and drugs.


"There was no evidence or proof that any of the account holders
at BDA had participated or involved in the illicit activities as
stated," Au said.


He said it was lawful in conducting normal business activities
with people and businesses from the Stalinist state as long as
its account holders were not on any blacklist of relevant
authorities.


Au said the bank's North Korean-related clients had not been
blacklisted by any authorities for illicit activities.


"Also there appears to be no formal legal action against any of
such account holders by any government authority for any of the
illicit activities as alleged," he added.


Au said the BDA always strictly complied with laws and
regulations.


Last week, the Macau Monetary Authority -- who took control of
BDA in 2005 after the US declared it a "primary money laundering
concern" -- said it would release the 25 million dollars in North
Korean funds frozen at the bank under US financial sanctions.


But the delay in releasing the money has stalled the latest round
of six-party talks, as Pyongyang refused to negotiate further
until it received the cash.


The return of the money was part of a six-party agreement reached
last month under which North Korea was to dismantle its nuclear
weapons programme in return for economic and energy aid.


The designated recipient, state-owned Bank of China, has
allegedly refused to accept the money for fear the transaction
may hurt its credit rating.


Daniel Glaser, the US Treasury's deputy assistant secretary for
terrorist financing and financial crimes, was in Beijing on
Monday trying to clear obstacles blocking the transfer.

