

A new international push to revive the Middle East peace process
gathered pace on Monday as Arab nations and Israel expressed a
readiness to talk together.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice shuttled between Israeli
and Palestinian leaders for a second day as she test-drove a new
US strategy of holding "parallel" talks with the two sides aimed
at moving towards the creation of a Palestinian state.


Rice launched the strategy after the prospect for direct Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations foundered following the creation of a
new Palestinian government grouping both moderates and Islamic
radicals.


Israel has said it will not deal with the government because its
dominant party Hamas -- which is boycotted as a terror group by
the West -- refuses to recognise the Jewish state or renounce
violence.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon was also in Jerusalem as part of
a diplomatic flurry preceding an Arab summit due opening on
Wednesday in Riyadh.


Arab foreign ministers preparing for the meeting endorsed a
dormant five-year- old plan for a blanket peace deal and called
for contacts with all parties, including the Jewish state.


The blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return for a full
withdrawal from Arab land captured in 1967, the establishment of
a Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert welcomed the initiative and
said he was willing to join a mooted meeting that would bring
Arab leaders together with the so-called Quartet of Middle East
mediators -- the European Union, the United Nations, United
States and Russia.


"If such an invitation would come my way, I would look at it in a
very positive way," Olmert told a joint press conference with
Ban. "Assuming I would get a visa, I would not hesitate to
participate."


Olmert said Israel could look favourably on the 2002 Arab peace
plan that he has previously spurned.


"If moderate Arab countries try to advance the process along the
lines of the Saudi initiative I will look at it as a very
positive development," he said.


In Amman, Rice met moderate Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
for the second time in two days, before returning to Jerusalem
for fresh talks with Israeli officials including Olmert.


Speaking to reporters alongside Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni, Rice said it was "premature" to talk about a major
conference involving the Quartet, moderate Arabs, Israelis and
Palestinians, although other US officials confirmed the idea was
under consideration.


"The only decision taken by the Quartet is that we will meet at
some point in the region. Precisely what geometry we might use
has not been decided or really fully considered by the Quartet or
by the parties," she said.


In Amman, Abbas told Rice that Olmert needed to go back on a
decision not to discuss key issues with the Palestinians in the
wake of the unity government deal.


"President Abbas told the US secretary of state that it is not
enough for Israel to want to talk to us about humanitarian and
security issues," chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told reporters.


Rice plans to present her new approach for advancing Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations at a press conference on Tuesday, US
officials said.


The goal is to develop a replacement strategy for three-way
diplomacy Rice launched last month by bringing Abbas and Olmert
together.


That US initiative -- presented as a major push for peace in the
last two years of US President George W. Bush's administration --
faltered after Abbas's secular Fatah party joined a power-sharing
government led by Hamas, spurring Olmert's boycott.


Rice's plan is to skirt around the difficulties by acting as a
go-between for the estranged leaders to keep alive at least some
discussions on the contours of a Palestinian state -- talks seen
as essential for giving hope to Palestinians and boosting the
standing of moderates against Hamas.


To overcome the mistrust generated by the unity government deal,
Rice urged Arab moderates at weekend meetings in Egypt to
reinvigorate the broader Arab peace plan.


Israel initially rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative, but
in recent weeks has spoken of it as a starting point for
negotiations.


It has however sought some amendments to specify that Palestinian
refugees can return to Palestinian-controlled areas, not to
Israel.


In Riyadh, Arab foreign ministers agreed to present the plan
"without amendment and in its initial form" to their leaders.


They also decided to create working groups which would meet with
"all parties concerned" -- implictely including Israel -- to
further the plan.

