

In an historic agreement, Northern Ireland's two biggest parties
and historic foes, the Protestant Democratic Unionists and
Catholic Sinn Fein, agreed Monday to share power from May 8.


Here are the main events in the peace process since the signing
of the Good Friday accords on April 10, 1998, which introduced a
semi-autonomous power- sharing assembly and called for all
paramilitary groups to disarm.


1998


June: Parties supporting the Good Friday agreement win a majority
of seats in the Northern Ireland Assembly. Ulster Unionist leader
David Trimble is elected first minister.


August: Twenty-nine people are killed and 220 injured in the town
of Omagh by a bomb planted by a dissident Republican group.


1999


April: London and Dublin order the Irish Republican Army (IRA) to
hand over weapons within 30 days of the formation of the
government.


December: Britain devolves authority to a 10-strong power-sharing
government.


2000


January: A key disarmament report highlights the IRA's failure to
decommission its weapons.


February: Britain's Northern Ireland minister, Peter Mandelson,
suspends the executive and restores London's direct rule over the
province.


May: The IRA gives a commitment to engage with the
decommissioning body. Direct rule ends and devolution resumes.


2001


July: Trimble resigns as leader of the executive over the IRA's
failure to disarm.


August: London and Dublin unveil plans to rescue the peace
process. Later in the month, Britain temporarily suspends both
the government and assembly due to the continued political
impasse.


October: The IRA announces it has begun disarming.


November: Trimble is re-elected first minister.


2002


October: Britain suspends the executive again after IRA spy-ring
allegations. Direct rule is reimposed for an indefinite period.


2003


November: Assembly elections, with Ian Paisley's hardline DUP and
Sinn Fein coming out on top. Despite the election, the assembly
remains suspended.


2005


February: British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish counterpart
Bertie Ahern declare the IRA's criminal activities are the main
obstacle to peace.


April: Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams urges the IRA to take the
"historic" decision to abandon the armed struggle.


July: The IRA orders its "volunteers" to abandon their armed
campaign.


2006


February: The disarmament watchdog finds the IRA still involved
in intelligence- gathering and criminal activities.


April: Blair and Ahern set a November 24 deadline for Northern
Irish parties to agree on a restored power-sharing government.
The Assembly is to be shut down indefinitely if no deal is
reached.


May: The Assembly reconvenes, Paisley rejects Adams' nomination
of him as first minister with Sinn Fein number two Martin
McGuinness as his deputy. The first attempt to restore a power-
sharing government fails.


October: The disarmament commission says the IRA is "eschewing
terrorism and other forms of crime."


November: The British and Irish governments conclude the Saint
Andrews Agreement, setting out a timeline of events leading, if
all conditions are met, to the restoration of self-rule by March
26, 2007.


2007


January 28: Sinn Fein agrees to support the Police Service of
Northern Ireland, a key obstacle to restoration of power-sharing.


March 7: The 1.12-million-strong electorate votes for their
choice among almost 250 candidates standing in 18 constituencies.
The DUP tops the poll, with Sinn Fein second as moderates lose
ground.


March 24: DUP sources say the party will agree to form a power-
sharing executive, subject to a six-week delay on the deadline.


March 26: Paisley and Adams meet face-to-face for the first time
on the day of the initial deadline imposed by the British and
Irish governments. They agree to restore power-sharing to
Northern Ireland from May 8.

