

The most competitive field in years will vie for a place at the
British Open at the final Asian qualifying tournament here from
Tuesday.


Seventy-three players including Filipino star Frankie Minoza,
India's Shiv Kapur and local hero Mardan Mamat will compete at
Sentosa Golf Club for the four slots up for grabs.


Minoza, 47, said it was one of the strongest line-ups he had seen
for the two- day tournament.


"This is one of the toughest qualifiers I've played in with over
70 players fighting for four spots," he said.


Singapore-based Unho Park, who also enjoyed his first taste of
The Open last year, said it was the best field he had seen.


"This is my fourth straight qualifier and it is the toughest
field so far," said Park.


"I'm eager to make my second appearance. I'm hitting it fine and
striking the ball solid, I think it's down to my putting. The
course is not too long but a lot depends on the putting," he
said.


Minoza, whose solid form this year led him to the Philippine Open
title last month, said memories remained fresh of his Open debut
in 1998.


"I will never forget my first experience playing at Royal
Birkdale," he said.


"The people gathered there really appreciated the game. As I was
walking down the 18th hole in the final round, the fans all
around were giving us a standing ovation and clapping, and I felt
like I was walking on air, it was great."


India's Shiv Kapur, who enjoyed his maiden Open last year, will
not hold back this week as he hopes to make it two appearances in
a row.


"It is always great playing in your first major, especially with
the British Open, with all the history that's attached to it.
Although I did not make the cut last year at Hoylake, I still had
a wonderful experience and I hope to qualify this week," said
Kapur.


Japan's Tomohiro Kondo, Tatsuhiko Ichihara and Tadahiro Takayama
are also in the field.


The top four finishers will play at Carnoustie in July, where
they will get a chance to compete against the world's top
players, including former winners such as South African Ernie Els
and Englishman Nick Faldo.

