

Charismatic, tough and articulate, Gerry Adams, the bearded
president of the Irish Republican Army's political wing Sinn
Fein, has long been a hate figure for many Protestants in
Northern Ireland.


But he has been praised by many for finally persuading the IRA to
set aside its armed struggle against Britain and use purely
political means to press for the province to unite with the
Republic of Ireland.


On Monday he declared that the province faces a genuine turning
point after striking an accord with his long time foe Ian Paisley
in their first face-to- face talks.


"I believe the agreement ... marks the beginning of a new era of
politics on this island," he said.


Some Protestants see Adams, 55, as the brazen face of IRA
extremism, but for many Catholics he is a champion unafraid to
stand up for their rights.


Whatever his image, his role in persuading the IRA to renounce
its armed struggle has turned him from a pariah figure in London
to one who now regularly visits 10 Downing Street -- a building
the IRA attacked with mortars in 1991.


From staunch republican roots -- his father Gerard was shot and
wounded by police and then jailed in 1942 -- Adams became
involved in the 1960s Catholic civil rights movement seeking to
end discrimination by the Protestant majority.


In 1971 he was "interned," as the detention without trial allowed
in Northern Ireland at the time was known, and then arrested
again in 1973 on suspicion of running the IRA's Belfast brigade.


After attempting escape, Adams was sentenced to 18 months in
prison, and in February 1978 he was charged with membership of
the IRA but was freed because of insufficient evidence.


Since then, Adams' supporters say, he has embarked on a brave
attempt to wean the republican movement away from its belief in
violence as the means of achieving its political ends.


Adams was elected member of the British parliament for west
Belfast in 1983, lost the seat in 1992, and was then re-elected
but refused to attend parliament as he would not swear the
required oath of allegiance to the British Queen.


In 1988 then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher famously banned
broadcasters from transmitting Adams' voice, denying him the
"oxygen of publicity." The ban was lifted by Thatcher's successor
John Major in 1994.


And after the election of British premier Tony Blair in 1997,
Adams became a key figure in the peace talks which were enshrined
in the landmark 1998 Good Friday Agreement.


While that accord stuttered, with self-rule suspended in 2002
because of an alleged IRA spy ring, Adams has remained.


He was widely seen as having played a key role in persuading the
IRA to renounce its armed struggle in 2005, seen as a turning
point in the province's history, and leading to Monday's deal to
restore self-rule in Belfast.

