

Prosecutors in Milan on Monday sought a five-year prison sentence
on appeal for former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi,
accused of bribing judges.


"Mr. Berlusconi was the driving force in this case," said
prosecutor Piero De Petris, according to the ANSA news agency.


Berlusconi, accused of bribing judges to prevent the takeover of
food company SME by his business rival Carlo de Benedetti in
1985, benefitted from attenuating circumstances when he was
acquitted in December 2004.


State lawyer Domenico Salvemini, saying "the law is equal for
everyone," is seeking reparations of 1.1 million euros (1.46
million dollars) in the case.


The tribunal was expected to reach a verdict at the end of April.


If convicted in the Milan appeal, the billionaire media magnate
could still take the case to a higher court.


Several other people including judges and Cesare Previti,
Berlusconi's former lawyer who entered politics in the 1990s,
have already been convicted in the case. Previti spent a few days
in jail but is now under house arrest.


Berlusconi was tried separately from his co-defendants due to his
engagements as prime minister and the case, which opened in 2003,
was suspended when the government passed a law granting temporary
immunity from prosecution to the five leading members of
government while in office.


The case was allowed to go forward after Italy's constitutional
court annulled the law.


Berlusconi is on trial in a separate corruption case along with
his former tax lawyer David Mills of Britain.


Berlusconi, 70, is accused of paying Mills 600,000 dollars for
favourable testimony during two other trials in the late 1990s.


The two face prison terms of between four and 12 years if
convicted.


Berlusconi, 70, is accused of money laundering by using offshore
companies to buy the film rights between 1994 and 1999 and then
reselling them at inflated prices to Mediaset, which as a result
paid less tax in Italy.


Berlusconi, Mills and a dozen other defendants stand accused, in
a separate trial, of tax fraud in the 1999 purchase of film
rights in the United States by Mediaset, the television group
owned by the Berlusconi family.


Cases related to Berlusconi's business dealings have landed him
in court for eight separate trials on charges including
corruption, tax fraud, false accounting and illegally financing
political parties, but he has never been definitively convicted.

