

Sri Lanka launched two investigations into security lapses that
led to the first ever Tamil Tiger air raid against the island's
main military base, where three airmen were killed, officials
said Monday.


The air force appointed a five-member team to probe lapses at the
heavily guarded Katunayake airbase which came under a night air
attack from Tamil Tiger rebels.


"The police, too, launched an investigation, because they were
the first to pass on information about the sighting of two
unidentified aircraft an hour before the attack," a top police
source said.


He said police made visual contact with the aircraft as they
crossed a de facto front line at Vavuniya, about 200 kilometres
(125 miles) north of the Katunayake airbase.


"Ground-based soldiers had also picked up the aircraft on their
radar and they established that the aircraft did not belong to
the airforce," the source said. "We want to know why no action
was taken to intercept the aircraft."


After dropping bombs over the military base, the guerrillas flew
back -- a journey that would have taken them at least an hour --
but were unchallenged either by interceptors or ground-based air
defence systems, officials said.


The air force admitted the rebels had carried out their first
public attack using aircraft only after the rebels announced
their planes had returned to a secret location inside rebel-held
territory.


Tiger pictures showed that four bombs were mounted on each
fuselage.


The island's only international airport, located next to the
airbase, shut for three hours.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) released pictures of
seven "Air Tiger" guerrillas dressed in light blue camouflage
uniform posing for pictures with Tiger supremo Velupillai
Prabhakaran, 52.


The pictures released by the Tigers showed a partial section of
an aircraft, which indicated the plane was a single-engine,
propeller-driven light aircraft.


Monday's attack was the second against the Katunayake airbase by
the Tigers in six years.


A group of suicide bombers infiltrated the base in July 2001 and
destroyed a fleet of parked military aircraft, then crossed over
to the adjoining international airport and destroyed six civilian
jets parked there.

