

Organic agriculture got a big boost Monday from a study proving
that fruit grown without chemical inputs contains significantly
larger quantities of at least three compounds associated with
improved health.


Scientists at the University of California in Davis grew two
otherwise identical plots of kiwis side-by-side, one organically
and the other with a standard mix of herbicides, pesticides and
chemical fertilizer.


Upon reaching maturity, and after different periods of storage,
the organic fruit showed 18 and 27 percent higher levels,
respectively, of polyphenols and antioxidant activity, both
widely linked with health benefits.


A raging scientific debate over whether eating organic makes a
difference has not prevented organic food sales from soaring 20
percent a year, reaching some 28 billion dollars in 2006,
according to the Bonn-based International Federation of
Agriculture Movements.


This is one of the first studies, the authors contend, that
factors out all other possible influences in comparing
conventionally grown and chemical-free food plants.


Polyphenols -- found in red wine, red berries, peaches and pears
-- have been shown in other studies to reduce cholesterol and
improve blood circulation.


Some research has indicated that they may help prevent some forms
of cancer.


The authors of the study, published in the peer-reviewed British
journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, conjecture that the
difference in polyphenol levels may be due to the negative impact
of chemical farming.


"It is possible that conventional growing practices utilize
levels of pesticides that can result in a disruption of phenolic
metabolites in the plant that have a protective role in plant
defence mechanisms," wrote Maria Amodio and three co- authors.


Antioxidants are found in plant substances and are thought to
help protect the body by neutralizing free radicals, or unstable
oxygen molecules, which can damage cells and are linked to poor
health and disease. Green tea has especially high concentrates of
one kind of antioxidant.


The study also reported higher levels of ascorbic acid, better
known as vitamin C.


While not all scientists agree that these factors promote health,
the study proves that they are more present in chemical-free
produce.


The study suggests that the organic plants, thrown onto their own
defences against disease and predators, are more "stressed" and
therefore produce more of these beneficial compounds.


In terms of flavour, the scientists said, the organic and non-
organic fruits were virtually the same, though the chemical-free
kiwis had thicker skin and slightly less fleshly fruit.


Organic yields were also smaller, averaging 22.5 tonnes per
hectare (nine tonees per acre) as opposed to 26.9 tonnes per
hectare (10.75 per acre) for the conventionally grown fruit.


The market for organic foods has developed mainly in rich
countries among wealthier consumers willing to pay a premium
price. Supporters of conventional farming contend that chemical
inputs are essential for providing nutrition at affordable prices
for the bulk of the world's population.

