

India and the United States held crucial talks here Monday to
settle the details of an agreement reached last year that paves
the way for sales of civilian nuclear technology to New Delhi.


The discussions are aimed at hammering out the finer details of a
broader pact on nuclear cooperation struck in July 2006 and to
"iron out key differences," said an Indian official, who did not
want to be named.


A spokesman for the United States' embassy in New Delhi said the
talks, involving delicate issues such as so-called dual use
technology which can be used for civil and military aims, would
continue through the week.


"They had an initial meeting yesterday (Sunday) and are
continuing talks today. Both sides are hoping to make progress on
key issues," he said.


The US team is led by Richard Stratford, director of the office
of Nuclear Energy, Safety and Security in the US State
Department, while the Indian side is headed by senior foreign
ministry officials S. Jayashankar and Gayatri Kumar.


Differences between India and the United States persist over the
re-processing of spent fuel and the assurance of a constant
supply of atomic fuel even in the event New Delhi tests nuclear
weapons.


Last week, the chief of India's Atomic Energy Commission and top
nuclear scientist, Anil Kakodkar warned that India wanted
"reprocessing rights up- front."


"Reprocessing is a non-negotiable right," he was quoted as saying
by the Press Trust of India news agency. Another issue raised by
Kakodkar was nuclear weapons test limits which India last
conducted in May 1998.


The United States had signed, but did not ratify in Congress, a
comprehensive test ban treaty. India has not signed the treaty.


"India had declared a unilateral moratorium on nuclear tests, but
that cannot become a bilateral legality," he added.


The India-US civilian nuclear energy deal is the centrepiece of
India's new relationship with Washington after decades of Cold
War tensions and is part of the energy import-dependent nation's
bid to increase its fuel sources to sustain its booming economy.


C.U. Bhaskar of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analysis
said the importance of the deal was two-fold.


"One, it aims to bring India into the loop of global nuclear
commerce after decades of isolation and second the deal will have
a vital impact on India's efforts to move away from dependency on
hydro-carbons," Bhaskar said.


As part of the deal, New Delhi agreed to separate its civilian
and military reactors in exchange for Washington and other
nations of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) -- which limits the
sale of atomic equipment and technology worldwide to civilian
use.


Last year, the US Congress gave its go-ahead to the deal allowing
Washington to start talks on the bilateral agreement aimed at
amending a section of the 1954 US Atomic Energy Act.


Once concluded, the "123 agreement" will need to be passed by the
US Congress.


New Delhi also needs the "123 agreement" in place before it can
negotiate a bilateral deal with the International Atomic Energy
Agency on inspections of nuclear plants that India has designated
as civilian units.


India is also talking to NSG members separately to persuade them
to drop reservations on selling nuclear fuel and reactors,
another Indian official said.


"If the 123 agreement is concluded successfully, it will send a
signal to other countries to review their nuclear policy
vis-a-vis India," Bhaskar said.

