

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice shuttled between Israeli
and Palestinian leaders for a second day Monday as Arab states
revived a five-year-old peace plan to positive noises from
Israel.


As Arab foreign ministers gathered in Saudi Arabia endorsed their
2002 peace blueprint and called for contacts with all parties
including the Jewish state, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
said he was willing to join a meeting of Arab leaders.


A four-way meeting with Israel, Palestinians, Arab moderates and
the Middle East peace Quartet -- the European Union, the United
Nations, United States and Russia -- has reportedly been at the
centre of discussions between Rice and regional leaders during
her tour.


"If such an invitation would come my way, I would look at it in a
very positive way," he told a joint press conference in Jerusalem
with UN chief Ban Ki-Moon, who is also touring the region.


"Assuming I would get a visa, I would not hesitate to
participate," he said.


Olmert also said Israel could look favourably on the Arab peace
plan that he has previously spurned.


"If moderate Arab countries try to advance the process along the
lines of the Saudi initiative I will look at it as a very
positive development."


Rice met Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas in Jordan, where she
was seeking moderate Arab support for her peace efforts, before
heading back to Jerusalem for fresh talks with Olmert.


A senior US official travelling with Rice said a meeting between
Olmert and leaders of pro-Western Arab states Egypt, Jordan,
Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates would be "a good idea" but
added "it's a little premature."


The official said it remained uncertain whether countries such as
the UAE and Saudi Arabia, which have no formal ties with the
Jewish state, would agree to attend a summit with Israeli
leaders.


In Amman, the Palestinian leader told Rice that Olmert needed to
be ready to talk about the substance of the peace process if
intensive talks were to resume.


"President Abbas told the US secretary of state that it is not
enough to Israel to want to talk to us about humanitarian and
security issues," chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told reporters.


But the Palestinian leader later expressed "optimism" over Rice's
latest peace mission, her fourth in as many months.


"Things are moving forward," he said after talks with King
Abdullah II who also met Rice.


King Abdullah in turn "expressed hope that Israel would react
positively to the Arab peace initiative" and "urged Israelis not
to waste this historic opportunity."


Rice plans to present a "parallel" approach for advancing the
deadlocked peace process at a press conference after her new
talks with Olmert, US officials said.


The goal is to develop a replacement strategy for three-way
diplomacy Rice launched last month by bringing together Abbas and
Olmert.


US efforts to jump-start peace negotiations faltered after
Abbas's secular Fatah party joined a power-sharing government led
by the Islamic movement Hamas last month.


The United States and its international partners regard Hamas as
a terrorist group and will meet only non-Islamist members of the
new cabinet.


To overcome the mistrust generated by the unity government deal,
Rice has sought the support of Arab allies like Jordan for a new
regional push to entice Israel back into negotiations.


In Riyadh, Arab foreign ministers gathered ahead of an annual
summit Wednesday, renewed their endorsement of the Saudi-inspired
peace blueprint first adopted at a Beirut summit in 2002.


"The Arab foreign ministers approved the Arab peace plan without
amendment and in its initial form," Jordanian Foreign Minister
Abdel Ilah Khatib said.


The blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return for full
withdrawal from Arab land captured in 1967 and the establishment
of a Palestinian state.


The ministers also decided to create working groups to hold
contacts with all players in the Middle East peace process, he
told AFP.


Rice told officials from the so-called Arab Quartet -- Egypt,
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- at the
weekend that her goal is to help revive the Saudi inspired peace
plan.


Israel initially rejected the take-it-or-leave-it peace bid but
in recent weeks Israeli leaders have spoken more positively of
the ideas as a starting point for negotiations.


The Jewish state has however sought some amendments to specify
that Palestinian refugees can return to Palestinian-controlled
areas, not to Israel, but Arab leaders are adamantly opposed to
any changes.

