

The Protestant leader of Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist
Party Ian Paisley, nicknamed "Doctor No" for his fierce
opposition to compromise with Catholic opponents, finally said
yes Monday.


The firebrand preacher -- expected to become Northern Ireland's
First Minister under a power-sharing deal -- agreed to restore
self-rule on May 8 after his first-ever face-to-face talks with
long-time rival Gerry Adams.


"After a long and difficult time in our province, I believe that
enormous opportunites lie ahead for our province. Devolution has
never been an end in itself but is about making a positive
difference to people's lives," he said.


Paisley -- whose deputy in the restored Belfast executive is set
to be Catholic Sinn Fein second-in-command Martin McGuinness --
is one of the most recognisable figures in British politics.


Although bowed by age, the 80-year-old is a giant figure with a
booming voice and a ringing line in biblical rhetoric straight
from the pulpit.


An evangelical Christian who founded the Free Presbyterian Church
in 1951, he has condemned the Catholic Church, which he once
reportedly labelled "the whore of Babylon," and the republican
movement with equal vigour.


Neither does he shrink from attacking homosexuality and alcohol
-- which he is said to refer to as "the devil's buttermilk."


Paisley was first elected to the British parliament's House of
Commons in London in 1970 and co-founded the DUP, which
vociferously guards the union between Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the following year.


Nationalists and Republicans, who are overwhelmingly Catholics,
want the province to be integrated into the Republic of Ireland.


Paisley was a vocal opponent of both the 1973 Sunningdale
Agreement and the 1985 Anglo-Irish Agreement -- efforts brokered
by then-prime ministers Ted Heath and Margaret Thatcher to end
the violence in Northern Ireland.


And when the 1998 Good Friday peace deal ushered in Northern
Ireland's assembly, his intransigence led many to write off
Paisley, who was against this deal too, as a dinosaur.


But with increasing electoral success in the following years --
which saw his party become the biggest in the Belfast assembly --
came hints of a willingness to compromise not previously
associated with Paisley.


Amid reports that he had suffered an undisclosed serious illness,
he held a historic first meeting with Irish Prime Minister Bertie
Ahern in 2004.


This was a major reversal from the time in 1965 when he threw
snowballs at one of Ahern's predecessors.


Following last year's Saint Andrews Agreement, Paisley indicated
he could work with Sinn Fein if they accepted the Police Service
of Northern Ireland's authority.


Sinn Fein finally vowed to do that in January, paving the way for
Monday's accord -- although Paisley demanded an extra six weeks
in part to be absolutely sure that the Catholic party was
sticking by its pledge.

