

UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari Monday recommended
independence for Kosovo as the only option for the breakaway
Serbian province, a proposal already fiercely rejected by Serbia
and Russia.


"Independence is the only option for a politically stable and
economically viable Kosovo," Ahtisaari said in his long-awaited
report on the future status of the ethnic-Albanian majority
province in southern Serbia.


"I therefore propose that the exercise of Kosovo's independence
... be supervised and supported for an initial period by
international civilian and military presences."


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb forces
carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic Albanians.


After 13 months of negotiations led by Ahtisaari, Belgrade and
Kosovo Serbs earlier this month rejected independence for the
province, calling instead for more negotiations.


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, accepted the plan, rejecting any links
with Belgrade.


Russia has also slammed the independence proposal, with Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov calling for more efforts to find a
compromise between Serbia and Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority.


In Brussels, US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns on Monday
backed Ahtisaari's recommendations.


"We are going to issue today a declaration that says we fully
support Martti Ahtisaari's proposal," he said.


"The US does support the proposal by Ahtisaari to offer
independence under supervision."


Burns said he thought a UN Security Council resolution confirming
the province's future status could be adopted "in April or May".


He remained cautious when asked about how objections voiced by
Russia, which is a veto-holding permanent member of the Council,
would be handled.


"Only in an independent Kosovo will its democratic institutions
be fully responsible and accountable for their actions,"
Ahtisaari said in his report.


"While independence for Kosovo is the only realistic option,
Kosovo's capacity to tackle the challenges of minority
protection, democratic development, economic recovery and social
reconciliation on its own is still limited," Ahtisaari said.


He made clear that although Kosovo's leaders have stepped up
efforts to reach out to minority Serbs and improve the
implementation of democratic commitments to protect minority
rights, they needed to make an even greater effort.


"I envisage that the supervisory role of the international
community would come to an end only when Kosovo has implemented
the measures set forth in the settlement proposal," he added.


Ahtisaari urged the UN Security Council, which is to take up the
issue next month, "to endorse my settlement proposal."


Under the scheme, the province would also adopt a constitution
within 120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time
the mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic has denounced Ahtisaari's
plan as "not a compromise, but a danger for stability in the
region."


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.

