

England's Justin Rose and Australian Aaron Baddeley were among
seven golfers who qualified for next week's Masters thanks to
world rankings and money lists released Monday.


Augusta National Golf Club announced the final qualifiers for the
field of the year's first major championship, with 97 of 107
players invited expected to compete, those sitting out being
mainly older past champions.


Americans Mark Calcavecchia, Charlie Howell, John Rollins, Bart
Bryant and Paul Goydos joined Baddeley and Rose in completing the
final Masters entry list announced by club chairman Billy Payne.


All but Calcavecchia joined the field by jumping into the top 50
on the world rankings list Monday, the final list revealed before
the start of Masters week.


Baddeley was ranked 25th, nine spots ahead of Rose.


Howell, a hometown hero whose dream is taking the green jacket of
the masters winner, is ranked 15th. Bryant was 37th, five spots
better than Goydos, and Rollins nudged his way in at 49th.


Calcavecchia, 59th in the rankings, earned an invitation by
ranking ninth on this year's US PGA Tour prize money list with
1,417,408 dollars so far in 2007. Baddeley, Howell and Rollins
also qualified with top-10 money list spots.


The biggest heartbreak from the money list was to Mark Wilson, an
American who won his first PGA title earlier this month at the
Honda Classic but finished 12th on Monday's money list with
1,214,558 dollars.


Wilson fell from eighth a week ago and missed cracking the top 10
by 127,757 dollars.


Aussie John Senden was the nearest miss in the rankings among
those not already qualified, standing 53rd this week on the list
and missing the Masters as a result.


Five amateurs and 18 first-time players will enjoy the trip down
Magnolia Lane to the Augusta National clubhouse starting with
next Monday's first official practice session. The first round
tees off April 5.


World number one Tiger Woods, who won last week's event at Doral,
is a favorite to claim his fifth Masters title and 13th major
crown overall. It would be his third major in a row after taking
last year's British Open and PGA Championship.


Defending champion Phil Mickelson, US tour money leader Vijay
Singh of Fiji, fourth-ranked South African veteran Ernie Els and
Aussie Adam Scott are among those who will challenge Woods over
Augusta's undulating greens and pine trees.

