

Cricket officials from England and Pakistan have reached an
agreement for compensation for Pakistan's forfeiture of last
summer's Oval Test match.


Under the agreement, Pakistan will waive their right to a fee for
a Twenty20 match as part of their tour of England in summer 2012
to settle the claim.


The Test match was declared forfeit by umpires Darrell Hair and
Billy Doctrove after the Pakistan players stayed in their
dressing room after the tea interval in protest at a five-run
penalty for ball tampering.


The England and Wales Cricket Board estimated they lost 800,000
pounds (1.2million euros) after being forced to offer refunds to
fans who had bought tickets for the fourth day of the Test, which
was abandoned after tea, and for the final day.


The ECB initially set the Pakistan Cricket Board an October 31
deadline to settle the compensation row, but it has taken almost
five months more to reach agreement.


As part of the revised plan, England's next tour of Pakistan in
2010 will now be postponed to January/February 2012, and will
comprise of three Test matches and five one-day internationals.


Pakistan will then tour England in summer 2012, playing three
more Tests and five one-day internationals in addition to the
Twenty20 match which will settle the claim.


ECB chief executive David Collier commented: "The meetings with
PCB demonstrated the goodwill and desire of both boards to find a
cricketing solution to the issues arising from the Oval Test
Match.


"Both boards were concerned that the timescale in the Future
Tours Programme allocated for England's tour to Pakistan in 2010
would preclude a tour of three Test matches and five one-day
internationals as scheduled."


England's tour commitments for 2010 are now significantly
lighter. They will tour Bangladesh now in 2010 instead of 2012,
playing two Tests and three ODIs.


Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq was later cleared of ball
tampering but found guilty of disrepute in relation to the post-
tea no-show at the Oval and banned for four one-day matches.


Match umpire Hair was barred from officiating in any Test match
as a result of the row. The Australian is now taking legal action
against the International Cricket Council and the PCB for alleged
racial discrimination.

