

Residents of French-speaking Quebec went to the polls Monday in
an election likely to result in a minority government that would
stem separatists' hopes of holding a vote on breaking away from
Canada.


Some 5.6 million Quebeckers are expected to cast a ballot.


Analysts at the start of the campaign believed federalist Liberal
Premier Jean Charest would win a second term and stave off a vote
on Quebec independence for five years, an average term.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois, which has vowed to hold a
referendum if it won the election, has made great strides in the
final stretch.


And an unexpected surge in support for rightist Action
Democratique du Quebec (ADQ), which favors more autonomy for
Quebec but not independence, has made the contest too close to
call, forcing Canadians to the edge of their seats.


Two of the most recent surveys predicted a win by the
federalists, but a third poll placed Andre Boisclair's separatist
Parti Quebecois in the lead.


The ADQ, led by Andre Dumont meanwhile was close behind with too
little support to form a government, but expected to win enough
votes to ordain the winner in a minority situation -- the first
in Quebec since 1878.


"We can say for sure that the ADQ will not win. A minority
Liberal government is likely, but a PQ victory is still
possible," said pollster Claude Gauthier, vice president of CROP.


Quebec held and lost two referendums on breaking away from Canada
in 1980 and 1995. Federalists narrowly won the second ballot.


To maintain its grip on power, a Quebec minority government would
have to deal with at least one of the other parties in the
125-seat National Assembly.


If the Parti Quebecois wins under such circumstances, it would
not be able to hold a referendum, said party insiders, because
none of the other parties support splitting from Canada.


But a minority win by the Liberals would likely cost Charest his
job, and his party would still face significant challenges with
separatists and Quebec nationalists in opposition, and another
election always looming.

