

Iran's threat to limit cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog
comes as international inspectors seek greater access to a key
underground site for enriching uranium.


Diplomats said Iran's decision to stop giving immediate
notification of its nuclear plant building plans means Tehran
could now work on new strategic sites without informing the
International Atomic Energy Agency, which could help Iranian
authorities to hide facilities from possible military air
strikes.


The United States, which charges that Iran's nuclear energy
progamme is a cover for secretly developing nuclear weapons, has
not ruled out military action.


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
Saturday over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment. Iran
responded Sunday by saying it would limit cooperation with the
IAEA.


A Tehran government spokesman said it would no longer inform the
nuclear watchdog of new installations until six months before
they are brought into service.


It was not immediately clear how this would affect attempts to
monitor work on a plant at Natanz in central Iran. Iran is
building in Natanz an industrial-scale plant to make enriched
uranium, which can be used for nuclear fuel or as atom bomb
material.


Iran has notified the IAEA of its plans to put in 3,000
centrifuges at the site, referring to the machines which arranged
in production line cascades, enrich uranium.


IAEA inspectors were turned away from Natanz on January 17, then
visited on January 20 but were not allowed to verify the number
of centrifuge machines in operation and were visiting the site
again Monday, diplomats told AFP.


The IAEA has said it needs to install cameras at Natanz to
monitor the operation of centrifuges.


A 3,000-centrifuge facility could produce enough enriched uranium
for one atomic bomb in less than a year.


A diplomat who closely monitors the IAEA verification effort said
that on January 20 "the inspectors were not allowed to have free
access to the cascade area. They couldn't go and see the exact
numbers."


Another diplomat said the Iranians have "been awkward about
letting inspectors go down the cascade lines in the past."


But a third diplomat stressed that the IAEA inspections were
about verifying that there is no unreported feeding or withdrawal
of nuclear material, and not to count centrifuges.


The first diplomat said Iran has installed underground in Natanz
six cascades of 164 centrifuges and was test-running four of the
cascades without the uranium feedstock gas used to make enriched
uranium.


This would mean that Iran has almost 1,000 centrifuges installed
and is actively running well over 500.


Non-proliferation expert Mark Fitzpatrick said: "In various ways,
Iran is pushing the envelope toward the very edge of what are
absolute legal requirements.


Fitzpatrick, an analyst at the International Institute of
Strategic Studies think tank in London, said Iran would now not
have to report future modifications at Natanz, where it aims to
ultimately have over 50,000 centrifuges running.


IAEA officials refused to comment on Iran's latest withdrawal of
cooperation until they had received official notification from
Tehran.


But the first diplomat said Iran's actions were "scary. They
could go on working on secret sites without reporting."


Fitzpatrick said the change in Iran's stance "comes at a time
when they are likely building redundant facilities in the event
an air attack destroys Natanz."

