

Egypt's opposition predicted a low turnout in Monday's referendum
on constitutional amendments after calling for a boycott of the
controversial vote, which they charge will roll back basic
freedoms.


"We expect a very, very low turnout. No sane person would go out
and vote for a constitution that will take away his liberties and
curb his basic freedoms," said Mohammed Habib, deputy leader of
the Muslim Brotherhood.


"No sane person would go out and vote for a referendum enshrining
a police state," added Habib, whose Islamist movement spearheaded
a movement to boycott the vote.


The ruling National Democratic Party predicted turnout would
reach 24 to 27 percent when polling closes at 7:00 pm (1700 GMT).


But the independent Egyptian Organisation for Human Rights said
estimated turnout at 2:00 pm (1200 GMT) stood at "two to three
percent." The Muslim Brotherhood also put the figure at three
percent.


The Islamist group, which is officially outlawed but secured a
fifth of parliament by fielding candidates as independents in
2005 polls, did not organise any demonstration during polling.


The amended constitution includes an anti-terrorism clause that
allows the authorities to arrest suspects without warrants and
refer them to military courts.


It also limits judicial oversight of elections and bans any
political activity based on religion.


The secular opposition Ghad party, whose founder Ayman Nur is in
jail, said some of its members were assaulted in several northern
cities and four arrested.


"These arrests and violence stand as yet another testament of the
regime's intentions," senior Ghad official Wael Nawara said in a
statement.


"The regime is trying to force unlawful infringement of civil
liberties down the throat of an angry nation and to
constitutionalise a permanent state of emergency which pushes
Egypt into a dangerous path."


The Kefaya protest movement held demonstrations in Cairo and
Alexandria but numbers remained very low as police was heavily
deployed.


"We will not let the government rest content with the corrupt
status quo, we hope the message gets across," Kefaya leader Abdel
Wahab al-Messiri told AFP at a protest in front of Cairo's
journalists syndicate.

