

Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are to merge into the biggest
British housebuilding group, worth about 5.0 billion pounds, they
announced on Monday.


The deal to form Taylor Wimpey, with a market value of 7.4
billion euros or 9.8 billion dollars, would likely catapult it
into London's prestigious FTSE 100 index of leading companies.


Investors welcomed the news and pushed up the share prices in
both companies in London trade.


The arrangement, amounting to a takeover by Taylor Woodrow, is
expected to be completed in mid-2007. Taylor Woodrow shareholders
would hold 51 percent of Taylor Wimpey and George Wimpey
investors 49 percent.


"The boards of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey are pleased to
announce today that they have reached agreement on the terms of a
recommended all-share merger," the two firms said in a joint
statement.


They added: "The merger will enhance shareholder value by
creating a business with a strong strategic position in both the
UK and the chosen markets in North America."


Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey have significant operations in
the United States which are suffering from tough market
conditions.


Sales of new US homes fell by 3.9 percent in February, hitting
the lowest level since June 2000, the US Commerce Department said
on Monday.


However, both construction groups have benefited from a buoyant
British housing market, which is growing despite a climate of
rising interest rates and concern about a possible speculative
bubble.


Each company has agreed to pay a so-called break fee of 24.5
million pounds if they subsequently agreed terms with another
party.


Investors reacted warmly to news of the gigantic merger.


On London's second tier FTSE 250 index, Taylor Woodrow shares
rocketed 12.96 percent to close at 475.00 pence and George Wimpey
gained 2.83 percent to end at 653 pence.


Persimmmon, currently Britain's biggest house builder with a
capitalisation of about 4.3 billion pounds, saw its shares climb
by 2.64 percent to 1,437 pence.


Taylor Wimpey will have pro forma revenues totalling more than
6.7 billion pounds a year, while the merger will create 70
million pounds of annual synergies for a 60 million pound one-off
cost, the joint statement added.


The new group would build about 22,000 houses in Britain a year,
and about 9,000 in the United States. It would also have a
combined workforce of 14,000, though analysts warned of job cuts
if the deal is pushed through.


The two companies played down rumours that the deal would see job
losses of 10 percent.


George Wimpey chief executive Peter Redfern, who will lead the
new Taylor Wimpey, told reporters on a conference call: "We've
seen reported 10 percent of 14,000. That's the wrong end of the
stick.


"A large proportion of the savings are driven by efficiencies on
the build cost side and in procurement."


He added that less than five percent of the workforce -- about
700 staff -- might lose their jobs.


The US property market, meanwhile, has been struggling as lending
rates have increased and speculators have pulled out of what had
been a sizzling sector.


Monday's new homes report showed an annualized rate of 848,000
new homes sold in February, well below the average Wall Street
estimate of 995,000 homes and suggesting the woes are not yet
over for the ailing US real estate market.

