

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is seeking to end an
uproar over his remarks on World War II sex slaves, on Monday
apologised again to the so-called "comfort women."


Abe has repeatedly said he stands by Japan's landmark 1993
apology to the thousands of former sex slaves, while saying he
felt no need to make a fresh statement.


But questioned in parliament by a leftist lawmaker on whether he
was apologising himself, Abe said he was.


"I am apologising now as the prime minister," Abe said, his
spokesman Hiroshi Suzuki told AFP.


"This has been stated in the Kono statement," Abe said.


In 1993, a statement by then chief government spokesman Yohei
Kono apologised to former comfort women and acknowledged that
Japan was involved directly or indirectly in causing their
suffering.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


Abe earlier this month triggered an uproar when he said there was
no evidence Japan directly coerced comfort women. He later
elaborated by saying he was talking of coercion in the "strict"
sense, such as kidnapping women.


In his remarks Monday, Abe repeated that the military was
involved in coercion in the broad sense, but said he was not
casting blame on all troops.


"There was a case in which the military shut down a comfort
station after learning about its existence," Abe said, as quoted
by Jiji Press.


The premier, whose grandfather was a cabinet minister during
World War II, is known for his conservative views on history.


He was a founding member of a group of lawmakers who called for
Japan to water down the 1993 statement. But since taking office,
he has repeatedly said he will abide by the Kono apology.


Despite Abe's latest remarks, one of his aides repeated
conservative views on the issue.


"I understand myself that there was no direct involvement of the
military" in the recruitment of comfort women, Deputy Chief
Cabinet Secretary Hakubun Shimomura told reporters.


Conservatives have argued that the military did not participate
directly in the recruitment of comfort women, saying it was the
work of pimps or other middlemen.


The row over comfort women comes amid a push in the US Congress
to pass a resolution that would demand Japan make an unambiguous
apology to former sex slaves and offer direct compensation.


Japan has lobbied aggressively against the bill, which is seen as
more likely to pass since the Democrats took power from President
George W. Bush's Republicans in January.


Abe's government has been stung by harsh criticism in the US
media on comfort women.


Most recently, The Washington Post said in an editorial Saturday
that Abe's remarks had weakened his moral authority in pressing
North Korea over its past abductions of Japanese nationals.


But the prime minister, who has built his career on the abduction
row, rejected any link between that matter and the comfort women
remarks.


"They are totally separate issues," Abe told reporters.


"The abduction issue concerns the ongoing infringement on human
rights. The comfort women issue is not a matter which is
continuing."


Abe has refused to fund a breakthrough deal on freezing North
Korea's nuclear programme due to the abductions dispute.


North Korea has returned five Japanese civilians kidnapped in the
1970s and 1980s, but Tokyo says more are alive and kept under
wraps.

