

A right-wing dictator whose authoritarian regime ruled Portugal
between 1933 and 1974 has been selected by viewers of a popular
television show as the nation's greatest personality of all time.


Antonio de Oliveira Salazar captured 41 percent of all votes
cast, beating his nearest rival, veteran Communist Party leader
Alvaro Cunhal who spent years in prison for his opposition to the
regime, by a wide margin.


A diplomat who helped Jews escape Nazi occupied France during
World War II, Aristides de Sousa Mendes, came in third in the
phone-in poll whose results were broadcast late on Sunday on
state-run channel RTP1.


The outcome dominated radio and television talk shows in
Portugal, one of western Europe's youngest democracies, on Monday
with many expressing unease over the result even though the
survey was not representative.


"It is symbolically a worrying result because it reveals a great
lack of knowledge about the regime and that democratic values
have not left their mark," well-known political sociologist Andre
Freire told radio Antenna 1.


Viewers watched half-hour documentaries about the top 10
shortlisted figures, each with his or her own "celebrity"
defender, and the audience then voted for the winner by
telephone.


Salazar was left off an initial list of 100 personalities which
the audience could chose from but was later added following
complaints from his supporters.


His regime outlawed opposition parties and relied on secret
police, torture and detentions without trial to stamp out
dissent. It was toppled in a nearly bloodless military coup in
1974.


The idea of picking a country's favourite personality emerged in
2002 on the BBC series Great Britons in which former prime
minister Winston Churchill came out on top.


Other countries followed including France which voted for
military and political leader Charles de Gaulle as the greatest
French personality of all time, and the United States which
selected former president Ronald Reagan as its top personality.

