

Chinese President Hu Jintao holds crucial talks with Russian
counterpart Vladimir Putin in the Kremlin on Monday as part of a
worldwide drive to secure new energy sources for China.


Officials from the two countries were expected to seal trade
deals worth up to four billion dollars during Hu's three-day
visit to Russia, as well as discuss the nuclear programmes of
Iran and North Korea.


But the key to the visit is energy-hungry China's bid to obtain
guarantees of increased oil and gas deliveries from Russia, the
biggest energy producer in the world, analysts said.


Last month, Hu went on a 12-day tour to eight African nations
that was aimed largely at boosting Chinese investment in natural
resources in the continent and securing oil imports from war-torn
Sudan.


"Energy is one of the most significant and promising areas of co-
operation with China. It is based on large projects of a long-
term and mutually beneficial character," a Kremlin official said
ahead of the talks.


The Kommersant daily said that the main agreement to be finalised
during Hu's visit was a deal between the Russian and Chinese
railway companies that would increase crude oil exports to China.


Russia exported 15 million tonnes of oil to China in 2006, 11
million tonnes of it by rail, officials said. Plans to boost
shipments have sparked concern that supplies to the West might
suffer.


The visit is also expected to touch on Chinese worries about
delays in the construction of a planned oil pipeline from the
fields of Siberia to the Chinese oil hub of Daqing, Kommersant
reported.


The two leaders are set to meet in Moscow on Monday and sign a
joint declaration on Russian-Chinese partnership. They will meet
again on Tuesday to inaugurate a major exhibition of Chinese
artefacts inside the Kremlin.


Hu will then travel to Tatarstan, a mainly Muslim province in
central Russia that has extensive oil reserves and has attracted
high levels of foreign investment.


Hu and Putin were expected to talk up strong diplomatic ties as
their two countries have taken closely aligned positions in talks
meant to end North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and stem
Iran's nuclear ambitions.


Hu said ahead of the trip, his third to Russia since becoming
president, that the visit would further cement economic and
diplomatic relations that have grown significantly since the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.


But Russian newspapers said that behind the high-flown rhetoric,
Hu's trip would be about hard-nosed business bargaining.


"Behind the ceremonial facade, the Chinese president is in for
some tense negotiations," Kommersant said. The Nezavisimaya
Gazeta ran a headline reading: "Difficult Neighbour: The
imbalance between Russia and China is growing."


Among the possible sources of discord, Kommersant said, were
Russian concerns about China's space ambitions and Chinese
worries about the quality of Russian arms imports.


Nearly 200 Chinese companies selling everything from aerospace
technology to tea will showcase their products during the visit
at a trade exhibition in Moscow, China's biggest ever in a
foreign country.


Both sides said bilateral trade jumped over the past year, though
their statistics differed: China said trade grew 15 percent in
2006, while Russia said trade grew 43 percent over the same
period.

