

Following are extracts from the text of an Arab peace initiative
first floated five years ago and which is now being revived in a
bid to find peace in the Middle East.


The Saudi-inspired plan was adopted at an Arab summit in Beirut
in 2002. The following is from the official Arab League
translation.


The Arab Peace Initiative


The council of the Arab League at the summit level:


- Reaffirming the resolution taken in June 1996 at the Cairo
extraordinary Arab summit that a just and comprehensive peace in
the Middle East is the strategic option of Arab countries, to be
achieved in accordance with international legality, and which
would require a comparable commitment on the part of the Israeli
government.


- Presenting the plan, Saudi crown prince (now king) Abdullah
"calls for full Israeli withdrawal from all the Arab territories
occupied since June 1967, in implementation of Security Council
Resolutions 242 and 338, reaffirmed by the Madrid Conference of
1991 and the land for peace principle, and Israel's acceptance of
an independent Palestinian state, with east Jerusalem as its
capital, in return for the establishment of normal relations in
the context of a comprehensive peace with Israel.


(UN Security Council Resolution 242 in 1967 calls for "withdrawal
of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent
conflict" and "termination of all claims or states of
belligerency."


(UN Security Council Resolution 338 of 1973 calls for a ceasefire
of the 1973 Yom Kippur war and the immediate implementation of
Resolution 242.)


- Arising from the conviction of Arab countries that a military
solution to the conflict will not achieve peace or provide
security for the parties, the council:


1 - Requests Israel to reconsider its policies and declare that a
just peace is its strategic option as well.


2 - Further calls upon Israel to affirm:


a. Full Israeli withdrawal from all the territories occupied
since 1967, including the Syrian Golan Heights to the lines of
June 4, 1967 as well as the remaining occupied Lebanese
territories in the south of Lebanon (the Shebaa Farms).


b. Achievement of a just solution to the Palestinian refugee
problem to be agreed upon in accordance with UN General Assembly
Resolution 194.


(UN General Assembly Resolution 194 (1948), Article 11: "Refugees
wishing to return to their homes and live at peace with their
neighbours should be permitted to do so at the earliest
practicable date.")


c. The acceptance of the establishment of a sovereign independent
Palestinian state on the Palestinian territories occupied since
June 4, 1967 in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, with east Jerusalem
as its capital.


3. Consequently, Arab countries affirm the following:


a. Consider the Arab-Israeli conflict ended, and enter into a
peace agreement with Israel, and provide security for all the
states of the region.


b. Establish normal relations with Israel in the context of this
comprehensive peace.


4. Assures the rejection of all forms of Palestinian patriation
which conflict with the special circumstances of Arab host
countries.


5. Calls upon the government of Israel and all Israelis to accept
this initiative in order to safeguard the prospects for peace and
stop the further shedding of blood, enabling Arab countries and
Israel to live in peace and good neighbourliness and provide
future generations with security, stability, and prosperity.


6. Invites the international community and all countries and
organisations to support this initiative.

