

'Flying Dutchman' Pieter van den Hoogenband was under world
record pace before posting a faster time than rival Michael
Phelps into the final of the 200-metres freestyle Monday.


Hoogie, the Sydney Olympic champion, clocked one minute 46.33
seconds to be 0.42sec quicker than the American superstar in the
semi-finals.


The Dutchman was under Ian Thorpe's world record pace for the
first half before easing off and making his statement to Phelps
that he will have a challenge to capture his second gold medal at
the meet.


"I'm excited. It's the first time I'm going to race him since the
Athens Olympics. I'm really looking forward to it," Phelps said.


Van den Hoogenband said he also couldn't wait to swim in the
final.


"I think I am in good shape. Michael Phelps is also very good,
and we have Park Tae-hwan and some other guys, so it will be an
exciting final."


"I think I can go a bit harder in the final, so we will see
tomorrow if it's good enough."


Phelps won the first of what he hopes will be eight golds at the
meet ahead of his attempt to beat compatriot Mark Spitz's record
seven Olympic gold at next year's Beijing Games.


Their clash is one of the highlights of the Melbourne world
championships.


"I felt how I wanted to feel. I didn't push it too much
underwater in the second half," Phelps said. "But that's what I
have to do tomorrow. The work underwater is going to be the key."


Phelps did not discount a crack at Ian Thorpe's world record of
1:44.06, set almost six years ago at the Fukuoka world
championships.


"Anything is possible. But Thorpe swam the record in nearly
perfect fashion. There are a couple of guys who want to beat it
tomorrow," he said.


"It would make a dream come true for me, but if it's there, it's
there, if not, then not."


South Korean sensation Park, who relegated world champion Grant
Hackett to the bronze medal in winning his country's first world
title in the 400m freestyle Sunday, was fifth fastest into the
final.


"I am very satisfied because I've made the final," Park said.


"I don't know if I will win a medal but I will cut my Asian
record. I have learned a lot from Hoogenband and Phelps in
competition. They are my rivals and they will be hard to win
against."

