

Jordan's King Abdullah II on Monday called on Israel to "react
positively" to an Arab peace initiative, while also appealing to
the Palestinians to remain united to gain world credibility.


During talks with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the
Jordanian monarch also expressed support for US efforts to revive
the stalled peace process ahead of an Arab summit later this
week.


"King Abdullah expressed hope that Israel would react positively
to the Arab peace initiative," a palace statement said.


"He urged Israelis not to waste this historic opportunity,
reflected in the initiative that seeks to achieve the aspirations
of peoples of the region to live in peace and security," it
added.


The Saudi-inspired blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return
for withdrawal from Arab land captured in 1967 and the
establishment of a Palestinian state.


Earlier Monday Arab foreign ministers in Riyadh endorsed the
five-year-old bid "without amendment," to submit to the summit
that opens Wednesday, Jordanian Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah
Khatib said in Riyadh.


The ministers also "decided to set up several working groups to
initiate contacts with all parties concerned by the peace
process," which would include Israel, Khatib said.


Abdullah stressed the importance of a united Palestinian front
following the formation earlier this month of a Palestinian unity
government involving Islamist Hamas and the secular Fatah after
months of infighting.


"Strengthening and uniting Palestinian ranks and position ... is
a sure guarantee to convince the world the Palestinians are an
effective partner in the peace process," the king told visiting
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


The Jordanian monarch also underscored "the importance of
maintaining coordination between the US administration and Arab
and international parties" to help resume Palestinian-Israeli
peace talks.


Rice, on a regional tour of shuttle diplomacy, also met Monday in
Amman with Abbas, their second encounter in 24 hours.


She returns later Monday to Jerusalem for a second meeting with
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and will then unveil a new
strategy to advance peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians, US officials said.


"Some good things are there. We just have to put them together,"
Rice told reporters as she went into talks with the Jordanian
monarch.

