

Britain kept up pressure Monday on Iran over the plight of 15
arrested naval personnel as its ambassador to Tehran met
officials again to "press hard" for their release, the Foreign
Office said.


Geoffrey Adams spent an hour at the ministry of foreign affairs
in Tehran and was assured that the group was "fit and well and in
Iran."


His second meeting with Iranian officials in two days came as
Tehran signalled that they were being interrogated on charges of
violating Iranian waters.


Shockwaves from the seizure, which Prime Minister Tony Blair has
labelled "unjustified and wrong," continued to reverberate around
the world.


With tensions rising in the region over both the group's capture
and Iran's disputed nuclear programme, oil prices rose to their
highest levels this year -- well above 62 dollars in Asian trade.


On Sunday, Iran announced it would limit cooperation with the
United Nations' nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy
Agency, due to a fresh Security Council resolution on sanctions.


"The British ambassador called on the ministry of foreign affairs
at 11:00 this morning (0730 GMT) and this was to follow up
yesterday's meeting and was again at our request," a Foreign
Office spokeswoman said.


"He saw senior officials. The meeting was cordial and there was a
business-like atmosphere and it lasted an hour.


"The ambassador pressed hard for details of where the detainees
are being held and for consular accesss to them and what plans
the Iranians had for their release.


"The MFA (ministry of foreign affairs) assured us that the group
is fit and well and in Iran. There are no further details at this
stage."


The spokeswoman said she had "no information" on whether Iran was
making direct demands on Britain for the group's release, adding
there "may be" further contacts between British and Iranian
officials.


Adams previously met officials Sunday, the same day Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett lobbied for the navy personnel's safe
return in a phone call with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr
Mottaki.


Mottaki told a press conference at the UN in New York that the
detained group stand accused of "illegal entry" into Iran's
territorial waters.


Media reports suggest that Iran could lodge charges against the
group.


But Blair has stressed that the 14 men and one woman, who were
seized on Friday and are thought to be in good health, were not
in Iranian waters.


"The quicker it is resolved, the easier it is for all. But it is
quite unjustified and wrong," Blair told reporters on the
sidelines of European Union 50th anniversary celebrations in
Berlin.


"They were in Iraqi water, it is not true that they went into
Iranian territorial waters."


Iraq's Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari backed this up, saying in
a statement that the personnel were detained inside Iraqi
territorial waters.


The 15 sailors and marines, all based on the British warship HMS
Cornwall, were seized in the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides
Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the group was conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations and Iran has claimed the group admitted to illegally
entering Iranian waters.


Iran's ambassador to London has been summoned to the Foreign
Office twice over the incident -- once to meet a senior civil
servant Friday and again for talks with Foreign Office minister
Lord David Triesman on Saturday.

