

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton on Monday snapped up a
key political endorsement in the crucial early-voting state of
Iowa, in a significant boost to her 2008 White House campaign.


Former Iowa governor Tom Vilsack and his wife Christine signed up
to work for the New York senator, adding their state-wide
political network to her cause ahead of January's Iowa caucuses,
the first party nominating contest.


"I am absolutely thrilled and honored to have the endorsements of
two people whom I admire so much," Clinton said, appearing with
the couple in the key midwestern state's capital Des Moines.


Vilsack, who mounted his own brief bid for the Democratic
nomination, added: "I am proud to support you in your effort to
be the next president of the United States."


He said Clinton could "begin from the very first day as president
to repair the tarnished image the United States has had during
the (George W.) Bush administration."


The announcement will help Clinton, already with a narrow lead in
the state according to a new poll, reach into every corner of
Iowa, which demands candidates pursue an intense, often one-on-
one, engagement with voters.


It may also be seen as a blow to Senator Barack Obama who has
emerged as Clinton's closest nationwide rival for the Democratic
nomination.


The other top-tier Democratic candidate John Edwards, who last
week said his campaign would go on despite his wife Elizabeth's
cancer relapse, has blitzed the state over the last two years,
and has also built up a formidable Iowa network.


In the latest American Research Group poll, Clinton had edged
ahead of Edwards, winning the support of 34 percent of likely
Democratic caucus goers. Former vice-presidential nominee Edwards
had 33 percent.


Obama, expected to return to Iowa this weekend, had only 16
percent.


The uniquely colorful Iowa caucuses see Republican and Democratic
voters gather in precincts across the state in schools, diners
and even living rooms, to make and listen to speeches on behalf
of candidates, before choosing their favorite.

