

World oil prices struck the highest points so far in 2007,
nearing 64 dollars a barrel in London on Monday as the market
fretted over rising tensions in major crude producer Iran,
traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude May delivery rose
52 cents to 63.70 dollars a barrel in electronic deals. It had
earlier struck 63.97 dollars -- the highest point since December
6.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 45 cents to 62.73 dollars in electronic
deals ahead of the official US open. It earlier reached 62.96
dollars -- last seen on December 21.


The Iran situation is adding a "geopolitical risk premium to
crude prices, with many market participants concerned that the
(nuclear) situation could escalate, potentially leading to Iran
using oil as a bargaining tool," Sucden analyst Michael Davies
said in London.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, said Sunday it
would restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in
retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic programme.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


The decision followed word on Friday that Iran had seized 15
British sailors in the Gulf, a move which roiled the market.


On Monday Russia's deputy foreign minister said the new UN
sanctions imposed on Iran are "reversible."


The sanctions passed "are another signal to the Iranian
government and we would hope that they would understand it
correctly," the Itar-Tass news agency quoted Sergei Kisliak as
saying.


"All sanctions are reversible and it is still possible to resolve
the Iranian question through political means," the deputy
minister added.


Meanwhile the British navy personnel seized by Iran are being
interrogated and will have to answer to allegations they violated
Iranian waters, an Iranian official said on Monday.


"The case of the Britons who violated Iranian territorial waters
is following the due legal process and they must answer for their
violation," deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi said, state
television reported.

