

UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari on Monday recommended
independence for Kosovo as the only option for the breakaway
Serbian province, an idea already fiercely opposed by Belgrade
and Moscow.


"Independence is the only option for a politically stable and
economically viable Kosovo," Ahtisaari said in his long-awaited
report on the future status of the ethnic-Albanian majority
province in southern Serbia.


"Only in an independent Kosovo will its democratic institutions
be fully responsible and accountable for their actions," he
added.


But Ahtisaari stressed that in the initial phase, international
supervision of an independent Kosovo would be required.


"While independence for Kosovo is the only realistic option,
Kosovo's capacity to tackle the challenges of minority
protection, democratic development, economic recovery and social
reconciliation on its own is still limited," he noted.


"I therefore propose that the exercise of Kosovo's independence
... be supervised and supported for an initial period by
international civilian and military presences."


That international "supervisory role would come to an end only
when Kosovo has implemented the measures set forth in the
settlement proposal," he added.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb forces
carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Serbia, which views Kosovo as the birthplace of its civilization,
rejects any independence for its southern province, while Kosovo
Albanians want to break all links with Serbia.


After 13 months of negotiations led by Ahtisaari, both Belgrade
and Kosovo Serbs earlier this month rejected independence for the
province, calling instead for more negotiations.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the Security Council, also
slammed the independence proposal, with Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov calling for more efforts to reach a compromise.


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, have accepted the Ahtisaari plan and
reject any links with Belgrade.


Pointing out that "a return to Serbian rule over Kosovo would not
be acceptable" to the Albanian majority, Ahtisaari said:
"Belgrade could not regain its authority without provoking
violent opposition.


"Autonomy of Kosovo within the borders of Serbia ... is simply
not tenable," he added.


Ahtisaari's contentious plan is to be debated next month by the
Security Council, which must approve Kosovo's future status.


In Brussels, US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns on Monday
backed Ahtisaari's recommendations.


"We are going to issue today a declaration that says we fully
support Martti Ahtisaari's proposal," he said, adding that a UN
Security Council resolution on the province's future status could
be adopted "in April or May".


But he remained cautious when asked how objections voiced by
Russia would be handled.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett also welcomed
Ahtisaari's recommendations, saying they would give the province
"clarity over its future."


"Implementation of the proposals would resolve the final status
issue outstanding following the break-up of the former
Yugoslavia," she said.


"It would enable the Balkan region as a whole to draw a line
under the conflicts of the recent past and move towards a future
based around full integration with European and Euro-Atlantic
structures."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon, currently on a Middle East tour, expressed
'full support" for Ahtisaari's proposals in a statement issued by
his office here.


In his blueprint, Ahtisaari insisted that Kosovo's leaders had to
make a greater effort to protect the rights of the minority
Serbs.


Under the scheme, the province would adopt a constitution within
120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time the
mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


General end local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.


An International Civilian Representative, who will be a European
Union representative, would oversee the implementation of the
plan while having no direct role in administering Kosovo.


He will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU police
force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas related
to the rule of law."

