

Residents of French-speaking Quebec went to the polls Monday in
an election likely to result in a minority government and stem
separatists' hopes of holding a vote on breaking away from
Canada.


Some 5.6 million Quebeckers are expected to cast a ballot.


Analysts at the start of the campaign in late February believed
federalist Liberal Premier Jean Charest would win a second term
and stave off a plebiscite on Quebec independence for five years,
a prescribed term.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois, which has vowed to hold a
referendum if it won the election, has made great strides in the
final stretch.


And an unexpected surge in support for greenhorn conservative
Action Democratique du Quebec (ADQ), which favors more autonomy
for Quebec but not independence, has made the contest too close
to call, forcing Canadians to the edge of their seats.


Quebec held and lost two referendums on breaking away from Canada
in 1980 and 1995. Federalists narrowly won the second ballot.


Prior to the election, the Liberals held 72 seats in Quebec's
125-seat National Assembly, the Parti Quebecois 45 seats and the
ADQ five seats. One member was independent and two seats were
vacant.


Two surveys published Saturday predicted a narrow win by the
federalists, but a third poll placed Andre Boisclair's separatist
Parti Quebecois in the lead.


The ADQ, led by Mario Dumont, meanwhile was close behind with too
little support to form a government, but expected to win enough
votes to ordain the winner in a minority situation -- the first
in Quebec since 1878.


"We can say for sure that the ADQ will not win. A minority
Liberal government is likely, but a PQ victory is still
possible," said pollster Claude Gauthier, vice president of CROP.


He pointed to "growing displeasure" with the Liberals over broken
promises to lower taxes and to improve health care as key factors
in Charest's late campaign collapse.


The ADQ meanwhile whittled support from the main parties by
seizing on Quebecers' dream of nationhood and butterflies over
letting go of Canada, offering a compromise alternative to the
staunch federalists and hardline separatists.


"You have an electorate that is fatigued about the sovereignty
debate, disappointed by the performance of the Liberals and not
impressed by (Parti Quebecois leader Andre) Boisclair," said
Allan Greg, chairman of Strategic Counsel.


Website DemocraticSpace.com, based on several polls, predicted
the Liberals would win 55 seats, the Parti Quebecois 47, and the
ADQ 23 seats.


If the Parti Quebecois wins a minority government, it would not
be able to hold a referendum, said party insiders, because none
of the other parties support splitting from Canada.


Over the weekend, Mario Dumont ruled out ADQ support for a
referendum.


But a minority win by the Liberals would leave the door ajar to
another early election and a plebiscite thereafter, with hostile
separatists and Quebec nationalists in opposition.


If either the Liberals or Parti Quebecois fail to win a majority,
Charest, 48, and rookie Boisclair, 40, would likely be ousted as
leader of their respective party.


Dumont, 36, meanwhile has already been cast as a political
darling, even before the count is known, for greatly boosting his
party's standing and creating a third way in Quebec politics for
the first time since 1976 when the Parti Quebecois emerged to
challenge the federalist status quo.


The polls close at 8:00 pm (0100 GMT) but the tally in such a
close race could take some time to finalize, said pundits.


Election officials meanwhile are expecting a very high voter
turnout.

