

South African star Roland Schoeman again denied American Ian
Crocker to successfully defend his 50-metre butterfly world title
here Monday in a fast and furious race.


The Arizona-based Schoeman held off the 100m butterfly world
record holder's desperate finish to win the one-lap scamper by
0.29secs in 23.18 seconds.


Schoeman proved superior to Crocker at the last Montreal world
championships in 2005 and gave South Africa their first swimming
medal of the meet.


It was three times unlucky for Crocker who was also beaten into
the silver medal by Australian Matt Welsh in Barcelona in 2003.


"That was one breath, I'm a little out of breath now but there
were no tactics," Schoeman said, adding that despite winning he
was struggling.


"I struggled a little bit trying to fight the water. I wanted to
crush it like a big diamond.


"I'm also struggling a little bit coming from the block. I'm
fighting too hard and my strokes don't come naturally, but it's
just something that comes from anticipation and competing."


Schoeman and Crocker are the only swimmers to have qualified for
all three previous 50m butterfly finals at the world
championships in Fukuoka, Barcelona and Montreal.


Denmark's Jakob Schiott Andkjaer took the bronze medal in
23.56secs.


Schoeman said he was after more medals here.


"The sky is the limit at this point in time. So it's one down and
a couple more to go," he said, adding that it was a proud moment
for South Africa.


"I love standing up there and listening to our national anthem.
It really reminds me about turning down Qatar for the best
interests of my country.


It's a proud moment."


Qatar was last year trying to lure Schoeman with a big cheque to
switch sides and swim for them instead.


Crocker quipped after the race: "I'm just glad he's not so good
at the longer stuff."


"In the 50 (metres) you can't screw up at all and I had a couple
of mess-ups there. My last couple of strokes were terrible - I
had a big glide to the wall," he said.


"I made some bad decisions, but it's so easy to do, especially
when you're trying not to breathe because it wastes time.


"I definitely don't train for this race. It's just a dress
rehearsal for my 100 metres butterfly. The 100 lets me stretch
out, which I really appreciate."

