

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana told Tehran Monday that the
international community wants a negotiated settlement to the
problem of Iran's nuclear ambitions, his spokeswoman said.


The United States, which charges that Iran's nuclear energy
programme is a cover for secretly developing nuclear weapons, has
not ruled out military action.


Solana spoke by telephone with Iran's chief nuclear negotiator
Ali Larijani and "explained to him the position of the
international community and the EU on the developments at the UN
Security Council and reminded him that the international
community wants to resolve this question through negotiations,"
Solana spokeswoman Cristina Gallach told AFP.


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
Saturday over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment. Iran
responded by saying it would limit cooperation with the UN's
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).


Larijani for his part stressed Iran's wish also to resolve the
problem through negotiations, while adding that sanctions were
unacceptable, Gallach said.


Solana also broached the question of the 15 British navy
personnel being held in Iran, said Gallach, who gave no details
of that discussion.


Solana and Larijani agreed to remain in contact and to talk again
"soon" she added.


"Of course the demand of the liberation of the British soldiers
is complete from the European Union," Solana told reporters
earlier. All possible efforts will be made to secure their
release, he added.


Iran said it was interrogating the 15 British sailors it seized
last week claiming they had entered its waters illegally, defying
intense international pressure for their release.


Shockwaves from the seizure of the 14 men and one women continued
to reverberate around the world. Their exact whereabouts remain
unknown and British Prime Minister Tony Blair has labelled their
seizure "unjustified and wrong".


NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, in a joint press
conference with Solana in Brussels, expressed the hope that "the
British soldiers will be released as soon as possible".


With tensions rising in the region over the group's capture and
Iran's disputed nuclear programme, oil prices rose to their
highest levels this year -- well above 62 dollars in Asian trade.


Iran is already at loggerheads with the international community
over its nuclear programme and on Saturday was slapped with
tougher UN Security Council sanctions for failing to halt
sensitive uranium enrichment work.


It responded by announcing on Sunday it would limit cooperation
with the IAEA in a first response to the new sanctions.

