

The Rwandan defendant in Canada's first trial for crimes against
humanity pleaded not guilty Monday of taking part in his
country's 1994 genocide of ethnic Tutsis.


Desire Munyaneza, 40, is accused of involvement in the rape and
killing of civilians in Butare, southern Rwanda, from April to
July, 1994.


About 800,000 people, most of them Tutsis, were killed within six
weeks in Rwanda by members of the Hutu ethnic group.


"Either he participated in, helped or encouraged murders, sexual
violence and pillaging with the intention and presence of mind to
destroy the Tutsi population in an armed conflict," prosecutor
Pascale Ledoux said in court.


The genocide followed years of tension between the two groups and
was sparked by the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana, a
Hutu, in a plane crash.


Witnesses from the African country are to testify at Munyaneza's
trial in the Quebec high court.


Also due to give evidence in the trial is Romeo Dallaire, the
retired Canadian general who at the time headed a United Nations
peacekeeping force in Rwanda, as well as Canadian police experts
who have investigated the case.


Monday, the court was cleared after opening statements and
Munyaneza's "not guilty" plea to allow an unidentified witness to
give testimony.


Munyaneza went into exile in Cameroon after the genocide, before
coming to Canada in 1997 to seek asylum. This request was turned
down by Canada because of his suspected role in the atrocities.


He was "seen at the wheel of stolen cars ... taking away Tutsis
who were never seen again and were exterminated," according to an
earlier ruling by Canadian immigration authorities, quoted in the
newspaper La Presse.


The suspect lived with his wife and two children in Toronto while
Canadian authorities carried out an investigation which led to
his arrest and detention in 2005. His trial is due to last three
months.


Munyaneza is the first person to stand trial in Canada under a
law passed in 2000 for crimes against humanity. In the 1990s
suspected former Nazis were tried under separate war crimes laws,
but not convicted.


Another Rwandan genocide suspect in Canada, Leon Mugesera, has
also asked to be tried here instead of being extradited back to
his country, after the extradition move was approved by Canada's
supreme court.


The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda was formed in late
1994 in Tanzania, tasked with trying the masterminds of the
Rwandan massacre. It has so far convicted 27 suspects and
acquitted five.


Another Rwandan asylum seeker wanted on charges of genocide could
be tried by a New Zealand court if his home country does not seek
extradition, according to a newspaper report in Wellington on
March 11.

