

International efforts to revive the dormant Middle East peace
process gathered pace on Monday, with both Arab nations and
Israel saying they were open to talks.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, on her fourth visit to
the region in as many months to try to find a way to kickstart
negotiations, was shuttling between Israeli and Palestinian
leaders for a second day.


Arab foreign ministers endorsed a five-year-old peace plan and
called for contacts with all parties -- including the Jewish
state -- while Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said he was
willing to join a meeting of Arab leaders.


An unprecedented meeting grouping Israel, the Palestinians, Arab
moderates and the Middle East peace Quartet -- the European
Union, the United Nations, United States and Russia -- has
reportedly been at the centre of discussions between Rice and
regional leaders.


"If such an invitation would come my way, I would look at it in a
very positive way," Olmert told a joint press conference with UN
chief Ban Ki-moon, who is also touring the region.


"Assuming I would get a visa, I would not hesitate to
participate," he said.


Ban said such a four-way meeting was "a very interesting and
useful idea to consider, but we need more consultations."


Olmert also said Israel could look favourably on the 2002 Arab
peace plan that he has previously spurned.


The blueprint offers Israel normal ties in return for full
withdrawal from Arab land captured in 1967, the establishment of
a Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


"If moderate Arab countries try to advance the process along the
lines of the Saudi initiative I will look at it as a very
positive development."


Rice met Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas in Jordan before
heading back to Jerusalem for fresh talks with Israeli officials
including Olmert.


A senior US official travelling with Rice said a meeting between
Olmert and leaders of pro-Western Arab states Egypt, Jordan,
Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates would be "a good idea" but
added "it's a little premature."


The official said it remained uncertain whether countries such as
the UAE and Saudi Arabia, which have no formal ties with the
Jewish state, would agree to attend a summit with Israeli
leaders.


In Amman, the Palestinian leader told Rice that Olmert needed to
be ready to talk about the substance of the peace process if
intensive talks were to resume.


"President Abbas told the US secretary of state that it is not
enough to Israel to want to talk to us about humanitarian and
security issues," chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told reporters.


But the Palestinian leader later expressed "optimism" over Rice's
latest mission, saying "things are moving forward."


Jordan's King Abdullah II in turn "expressed hope that Israel
would react positively to the Arab peace initiative" and urged
"Israelis not to waste this historic opportunity."


Rice plans to present a "parallel" approach for advancing the
deadlocked peace process at a press conference on Tuesday,
following her new talks with Olmert, US officials said.


The goal is to develop a replacement strategy for three-way
diplomacy Rice launched last month by bringing together Abbas and
Olmert.


US efforts to jump-start peace negotiations faltered after
Abbas's secular Fatah party joined a power-sharing government led
by Islamist Hamas, considered a terror group in the West.


To overcome the mistrust generated by the unity government deal,
Rice has sought the support of Arab allies like Jordan for a new
regional push to entice Israel back into negotiations.


In Riyadh, Arab foreign ministers gathered ahead of an annual
summit Wednesday renewed their endorsement of the Saudi-inspired
peace blueprint first adopted in 2002.


"The Arab foreign ministers approved the Arab peace plan without
amendment and in its initial form," Jordanian Foreign Minister
Abdel Ilah Khatib said.


The ministers also decided to create working groups to hold
contacts with all players, including Israel, in the Middle East
peace process, he told AFP.


Rice told officials from the so-called Arab Quartet at the
weekend that her goal of her latest mission is to help revive the
Saudi inspired peace plan.


Israel initially rejected the take-it-or-leave-it peace bid but
in recent weeks has spoken of it as a starting point for
negotiations.


The Jewish state has however sought some amendments to specify
that Palestinian refugees can return to Palestinian-controlled
areas, not to Israel, but Arab leaders are adamantly opposed to
any changes.

