

The White House on Monday urged Iran to rethink a threat to limit
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog agency, and insisted
Tehran bow to international demands to freeze sensitive atomic
work.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," said spokeswoman
Dana Perino.


She had been asked about Iran's vow to restrict cooperation with
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in retaliation for
the UN Security Council sanctions imposed on Saturday over its
disputed atomic program


"We are united. Iran should suspend its enrichment and
reprocessing activities," she said. "The Iranian regime, rather
than comply with its UN Security Council obligations, is turning
a blind eye toward it and it's unfortunate for the people."


Asked about a parallel dispute between London and Tehran over 15
British sailors Iran seized last week, Perino said: "Of course
it's serious.


"We stand by our British allies and I will reiterate that there
is no intention of going to war with Iran," the spokeswoman said.


The White House has said it sees no linkage between the sailors'
fate and pressure on Iran as UN international inspectors seek
greater access to a key underground site for enriching uranium.


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
Saturday over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment. Iran
responded Sunday by saying it would limit cooperation with the
IAEA.


A Tehran government spokesman said it would no longer inform the
nuclear watchdog of new installations until six months before
they are brought into service.


It was not immediately clear how this would affect attempts to
monitor work on a plant at Natanz in central Iran. Iran is
building in Natanz an industrial-scale plant to make enriched
uranium, which can be used for nuclear fuel or as atom bomb
material.


"The international community is united in wanting to work with
Iran and there are all sorts of good intentions toward the
Iranian people as long as the Iranians live up to their
obligations under the international community's security council
resolution, so I think that we would urge them not to go down
that road," said Perino.


Diplomats said Iran's decision to stop giving immediate
notification of its nuclear plant building plans means Tehran
could now work on new strategic sites without informing the IAEA,
which could help Iranian authorities to hide facilities from
possible military air strikes.


The United States, which charges that Iran's nuclear energy
program is a cover for secretly developing nuclear weapons, has
not ruled out military action.

