

Business travel costs increased in 2006 after several years of
flat or declining prices, a survey by American Express showed
Monday.


The financial firm's Business Travel Monitor showed an increase
in prices for airline, hotel and car rental rates, largely due to
strong demand and increased operating costs.


The most dramatic increases were seen in international airfares,
and certain hotel categories, the report found.


US domestic airfares rose 15 dollars to an average of 216 dollars
in 2006, ending four years of declines, the report said.


Meanwhile the average international airfare rose to 1,707
dollars, up 5.8 percent for the year and 12.8 percent over the
past two years.


American Express said the increases came even as companies tried
to better manage costs.


"In line with our predictions, capacity constraints, strong
demand and high fuel costs prompted transient travel prices to
climb in 2006," said Mike Streit, vice president of American
Express Business Travel Advisory Services.


"Companies, however, heeded the warnings and looked internally to
tighten policies, strengthen compliance and rein in indirect
expenditures to hedge against the expected cost increases and
challenging negotiating environment.


"These employee change management efforts helped to soften the
expense impact and keep executives on the road."


Airfares to Asia showed strong increases, particularly for China
and India. Fares paid to this area increased 11 percent, the
highest average increase in any region.


Costs for international hotel bookings continued to climb, ending
2006 up 8.5 percent, or 18 dollars from the prior year at 230
dollars.


US hotel prices were higher across the board with the budget
category increasing to 179 dollars on average in 2006 from 166
dollars and deluxe accommodations rising 22 dollars to an average
of 233 dollars.


Car rental costs are also on the way up: The average daily rate
increased to 69 dollars last year from 66 dollars in 2005,
reflecting higher auto prices.

