

At least 100 Somalis and Ethiopians are dead or missing after
smugglers forced hundreds of would-be immigrants to jump from
boats into high seas off the coast of Yemen, the UN refugee
agency said Monday.


Twenty-nine people were confirmed dead and 71 others were missing
after smugglers brandishing knives forced their cargo of 450
people to jump Thursday off a remote stretch of Yemen's
coastline, the UNHCR said.


At least 290 immigrants survived the journey on four boats from
Bosaso in the Somali region of Puntland and made it to the UN
refugee centre at Mayfa'a where they were receiving medical care.


They told horrific stories of their crossing through the Gulf of
Aden, in particular of their arrival Thursday morning on the
Yemeni coast in stormy seas whipped up by high winds and strong
currents.


The smugglers forced their human cargo to jump while the boats
were still far from shore and those who did not were stabbed and
beaten with clubs before being thrown into the water, the UNHCR
said.


Sharks attacked some of the immigrants and many of the dead
bodies showed signs of mutilation.


Survivors recounted that several Ethiopian women and at least one
Somali women had been raped and abused by the smugglers during
the crossing.


Even when they made it to dry land, survivors alleged that the
Yemeni security forces had confiscated what little money they
had.


"We are horrified by this latest tragedy," said the UNHCR's
Assistant High Commissioner for Protection Erika Feller after
returning from a five-day visit to Yemen to review the agency's
operations there.


"These brutal smugglers care nothing about the fate of the people
they prey upon, both refugees and irregular migrants who are
desperate to escape persecution, violence and poverty in the Horn
of Africa."


According to a UNHCR tally, 4,400 immigrants have now landed on
the Yemeni coast already this year. At least 166 more have died
and nearly 100 others are still missing.


The agency estimates that 26,000 people attempted the crossing
last year, with 330 of those perishing en route and another 300
still listed as missing.


Last Saturday, 330 Somalis and Ethiopians reached the Yemeni
coast on two boats without any reported loss of human life.


The latest tragedy came as Feller rounded off a mission to Yemen
along with the UNHCR's Middle East and North Africa Bureau,
Radhouane Nouicer.


The two officials agreed with the Yemeni authorities to
strengthen cooperation on refugees and migrants arriving in
Yemen.


The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
operates a reception centre and a refugee camp in Yemen.


It said it would appeal for more money and a greater commitment
from the international community to help Yemen deal with the
ongoing crisis.


It also said it was working with other organisations in the Horn
of Africa to encourage authorities to crack down on smuggling and
to educate people about the dangers of trying to cross the Gulf
of Aden.


But Feller admitted it would take far more international
involvement to improve conditions for the would-be immigrants in
their land of origin.


"While we will do all we can to address the humanitarian and
protection needs, we fear that until the root causes of poverty,
persecution and conflict are addressed, desperate people who have
nothing left to lose will continue to risk their lives," she
said.

