

Steve McClaren's days as England manager appeared numbered on
Monday after details of a furious bust-up with Wayne Rooney
emerged at the same time as revelations that the Football
Association could sack him for a cut-price 2.5 million pounds.


According to media reports, McClaren's contract, which runs until
2010, includes a clause which allows him to be dismissed in
return for a severance payment equivalent to one year's salary.


Less than a year since he stepped up from his position as deputy
to Sven-Goran Eriksson, McClaren knows the possibility of that
clause being activated has risen sharply as a result of a run in
which England have managed only one goal in five games -- their
worst run in 26 years.


After a goalless draw with Israel in Tel Aviv on Saturday,
England have fallen five points behind Croatia, the pacesetters
in their Euro 2008 qualifying group, and three adrift of Russia,
who currently occupy the second qualifying spot.


With home and away games against the Russians to come, England
remain masters of their own destiny and McClaren's job would
appear safe at least until the trip to Estonia in June.


The former Middlesbrough manager will however be concerned by the
apparent willingness of individuals within the Football
Association, his employers, to leak confidential contractual
details which can only fuel speculation that an axe is being
sharpened behind the scenes.


McClaren's cause has also not been helped by the first
indications of a split between him and the players.


The head coach's post-match comments after Saturday night's match
in Tel Aviv came close to pinning the blame on the individuals --
Wayne Rooney, Frank Lampard and Andrew Johnson -- who missed the
flurry of half-chances England created late in the game having
been largely outplayed for the first hour.


There were also reports of a dressing room bust-up with Rooney,
who was allegedly angered by McClaren's decision to single him
out for criticism in the closed-doors inquest at the Ramat Gan
stadium.


Rooney reportedly stormed out of the dressing room after McClaren
highlighted his failure to score a competitive goal for England
since Euro 2004.


The player reportedly responded by throwing his boots and kit at
the wall in frustration and the argument was so loud it could be
heard in the Israel dressing room next door.


However McClaren on Monday described as "absolutely ridiculous"
reports of a dressing-room rift with Rooney.


The players have not escaped some severe criticism from the
press, but the media have largely focused on McClaren's inability
or unwillingness to innovate tactically during the match.


Most of the influential football writers who follow England have
long since concluded that McClaren is a natural number two who
has been promoted beyond his ability.


It seems England's hardcore fans, who responded to Saturday's
substitution of Aaron Lennon by Stewart Downing, with a chant of
'you don't know what you're doing' have arrived at a similar
conclusion and that will be worrying for the powerbrokers of the
FA.


England are the most valuable brand in international football.
That status has partly been built on the phenomenal global
success of the Premiership, but it is also underpinned by a
belief that England have good enough players to seriously
challenge for a major trophy.


If that faith is questioned, the brand suffers and signs that
McClaren is floundering in his role will trigger alarm bells at
FA headquarters.


With the cost of failure to reach the Euro 2008 finals estimated
at up to 100 million pounds, McClaren's bosses may soon conclude
that the less expensive option of a pay-off makes more sense.

