

World oil prices Monday struck the highest points so far in 2007,
reaching above 64 dollars a barrel in London, as the market
fretted over rising tensions in major crude producer Iran,
traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
jumped 1.10 dollars to 64.28 dollars a barrel in electronic
deals. It had earlier struck 64.38 dollars -- the highest point
since December 4.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 54 cents to 62.82 dollars in pit trading.
Earlier Monday it reached 63.30 dollars -- last seen on December
21.


The Iran situation is adding a "geopolitical risk premium to
crude prices, with many market participants concerned that the
(nuclear) situation could escalate, potentially leading to Iran
using oil as a bargaining tool," Sucden analyst Michael Davies
said in London.


The White House on Monday urged Iran to rethink a threat to limit
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog agency and insisted
Tehran bow to international demands to freeze sensitive atomic
work.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," said spokeswoman
Dana Perino.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, said Sunday it
would restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in
retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic programme.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


The decision followed word on Friday that Iran had seized 15
British sailors in the Gulf, a move that roiled the market.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he would attempt to
contact Iranian leaders Monday to discuss the fate of the British
sailors being held by Iran.


An Iranian official said the navy personnel were being
interrogated and would have to answer to allegations they
violated Iranian waters.


"The case of the Britons who violated Iranian territorial waters
is following the due legal process and they must answer for their
violation," deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi said, state
television reported.

