

Japan and China will resume talks Thursday on development of
disputed gas fields in the East China Sea, it was announced here
Monday while the two sides remained divided on ways to solve the
problem.


The seventh round of talks on resources development in the sea
would be held here at the level of sub-Cabinet officials, the
Japanese foreign ministry said in a press release.


The last round was held in Beijing in July last year, when the
two sides agreed to form a panel of experts to break the deadlock
in talks which started in 2004.


When Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made an ice-breaking trip
to Beijing last October, he agreed with Chinese leaders to
discuss the possibility of "joint development" of the fields.


Abe has been working to mend ties with China, which were badly
strained by his predecessor Junichiro Koizumi's visits to a war
shrine linked to Japan's militarist past.


But the two countries have differed on where they can jointly
explore for resources.


Japan and China have long disputed their sea border and Beijing
insists it has rights to exploration for oil and gas along its
continental shelf in the East China Sea.


But Japan says some of the gas fields lie too close to its
exclusive economic zone -- a delineation not recognised by China
-- and fears Beijing might siphon off resources from an area
Japan claims as its own.


Tensions escalated between the two countries last year after
Japan said it had spotted flames indicating China had started
production close to the area where Japan claims development
rights. China began test-drilling in 2003.


The Japanese delegation to the new round of talks will be led by
Kenichiro Sasae, head of the ministry's Asian and Oceanian
Affairs Bureau, and on the Chinese side by his counterpart, Hu
Zhengyue.


A Japanese business daily reported earlier this month that Japan
had proposed that the two countries jointly develop the entire
area and work together to select companies that would be
involved.


Tokyo would foot the bill for the drilling facility that China
had already set up, said the Nikkei newspaper, which did not
specify its sources.


China has previously proposed joint development, but only on what
Japan considers its side of the maritime border.


But the press report was denied by a Japanese trade ministry
official involved in the negotiations.


"We have been demanding China immediately stop its current
development in the disputed gas fields and will keep discussing
the demarcation issue," the official, who asked not to be named,
told AFP.


He added, however, that the two countries were discussing "a lot
of options."

