

The following are the key provisions of the independence plan for
Kosovo unveiled here Monday by UN chief mediator Martti
Ahtisaari:


Kosovo's governance:


-- Kosovo shall be a multi-ethnic society, governing itself
democratically and with full respect for the rule of law and the
highest level of internationally recognized human rights and
fundamental freedoms.


Rights of communities regarding culture, language, education and
symbols:


-- Albanian and Serbian shall be the two official languages,
while other community languages such as Turkish, Bosnian and Roma
shall have the status of languages in official use.


Kosovo minorities shall continue to be guaranteed representation
in the Kosovo assembly. To protect their legislative rights, the
settlement plan determines that key laws of particular concern to
minorities may only be enacted if a majority of their
representatives present and voting agree to their adoption.


Decentralization:


-- Extensive decentralization to promote good governance,
transparency, fiscal sustainability and ensure that the Serb
minority enjoys "a high degree of control over its own affairs."


Justice system:


-- Specific provisions to ensure that the justice system is
"integrated, independent, professional and impartial."


Protection and promotion of religious and cultural heritage:


-- Great emphasis on ensuring "the unfettered and undisturbed
existence and operation of the Serbian Orthodox Church."


Returns of refugees/displaced persons (IDPs) and protection of
property:


-- All refugees and IDPs from Kosovo shall have the right to
return and reclaim their property and personal possessions based
upon a voluntary and informed decision.


Economy:


-- Specific provisions for transparent procedures to settle
disputed property claims and for continued privatization process,
with substantial international involvement.


Security:


-- Provisions for a "professional, multi-ethnic and democratic
security sector, encouraging significant local ownership in its
development, while retaining a level of international oversight
necessary for ultimate success."


International civilian representative:


-- The international civilian representative shall be "double-
hatted as the European Union special representative. He will be
appointed by an International Steering Group and will be the
ultimate authority over implementation of the settlement."


European Security and Defense Policy Mission:


-- The mission shall monitor, mentor and advise on all areas
related to the rule of law.


International military presence:


-- The international military presence shall be a NATO-led
military mission, which will continue the current task of the
NATO-led forces in Kosovo (KFOR) "to provide a safe and secure
environment."


Transition period:


-- Upon entry into force of the settlement, there shall be a
120-day transition during which the current mandate of the United
Nations mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) remains unchanged.


At the end of the transition period, the UNMIK mandate shall
expire and all legislative and executive authority vested in
UNMIK shall be transferred to the authorities of Kosovo.


General and local elections are to be held within nine months of
the entry into force of the settlement.

