

Clusters of government employees trickling to polling stations in
Egypt on Monday failed to mask widespread scepticism over a
referendum expected to enshrine controversial changes to the
constitution.


In familiar scenes in a country where polling has been
consistently marked by accusations of fraud and mass abstention,
the first to show up at the ballot boxes were groups of
government workers.


"Of course I'll vote for the amendments, were they not proposed
by President Hosni Mubarak?" asked Said, a civil servant in his
fifties heading to a polling station in downtown Cairo with his
colleagues.


An estimated 36 million registered voters were called to say yes
or no to 34 constitutional amendments that were proposed by
Mubarak and rushed through parliament only a week ago.


The regime has billed them a major boost to democracy and
security but the opposition, rights groups and observers have
branded them an unprecedented setback for pluralism and basic
freedoms.


"The opposition opposes them because this is what the opposition
does. The amendments are for the benefit of the people, they will
help more of the country's youth find jobs," said Mohammed Abdel
Hamid, a young employee of a government-run swimming pool.


But many other Egyptians in the streets of Cairo spoke of the
futility of taking part in a referendum whose outcome was never
in doubt.


"What's the use? All referendums are fixed," said 50-year-old
Abdallah as he drove his taxi through the busy streets of
downtown Cairo, where police in riot gear and others in
plainclothes were heavily deployed.


"Egyptians know what's going on but we can't say anything or
we'll be arrested and put in jail."


Officials said they expected turnout to hover around 25 percent.
Some independent estimates put the turnout for a similar
referendum in 2005 at barely three percent.


At one polling station in Cairo's Manial neighbourhood, not a
single vote had been cast more than two hours after polling
opened.


The Muslim Brothers -- the country's largest opposition force --
called for a boycott of the referendum, arguing that the regime
will tamper with the results anyway.


The amendments include a new anti-terrorism clause which allows
the authorities to arrest suspects without warrants and refer
them to military courts.


Another change bans any political activity based on religion, in
a move observers say aims to prevent further gains by the popular
Muslim Brothers and ensure a smooth transition of power from
Mubarak to his son Gamal.


In the Cairo neighbourhood of Sayyeda Zeinab, the only voters
were large groups of women who had been herded to polling
stations from their impoverished dwellings by ruling National
Democratic Party (NDP) staff.


The women -- many of them illiterate -- appeared to have little
knowledge of what the referendum was about and were taking
instructions from NDP volunteers.


"We have to make them interested, otherwise they don't vote, so
we gather them up from the popular organisations," NDP member
Nawal Mustafa explained.


Mubarak and his government have defended the constitutional
changes as crucial to the country's security.


"It's better to stick to what you know rather than what you don't
know. At least with Hosni Mubarak we have peace and stability,"
said one voter.


In the Bab al-Shaaria district of Cairo, where the regime enjoys
limited popular support, Mohammed Ahmed Ali said he would boycott
a referendum he sees as a move by the government to tighten its
grip on power.


"Only the ignorant will vote," said the middle-aged man, who
works in a cement shop. "The amendments are only for the benefit
of the government, so they can hold on to their seats."


"Voting no is like voting yes. There will be fraud," he said.

