

Exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal on Monday called on this
week's Arab summit to recognise the Palestinian unity government,
but vowed that his group's armed struggle against Israel would
continue.


"The Arab summit in Riyadh needs to decide to break the isolation
of the Palestinians and recognise the Palestinian national unity
government," Meshaal said in Algiers.


"We call for a united Arab position. Let's leave it up to the
United States to divide Arabs into 'hardliners' and 'moderates,'
and let's take back the initiative," he added, speaking at an Al-
Quds Foundation congress before some 400 Muslim and Christian
backers of the Palestinian cause.


Meshaal's appeal came ahead of an Arab summit opening in Riyad on
Wednesday, which will aim to revive an Israeli-Palestinian peace
plan that was first endorsed at an Arab summit in Beirut five
years ago.


The Saudi-inspired plan proposes full normalisation of relations
with Israel if it fully withdraws from all the land it occupied
in 1967, permits the creation of an independent Palestinian state
and allows the return of Palestinian refugees.


The Palestinian unity government, made up of ministers from both
prime minister Ismail Haniya's Islamist Hamas movement and
president Mahmud Abbas' mainstream Fatah party, was unveiled
earlier this month.


Western powers have given the new cabinet a cautious welcome,
insisting it should renounce violence, recognise Israel and agree
to abide by past peace deals.


Meshaal however said Monday that "Hamas will not renounce its
armed resistance."


"Things are evolving in the favour of Arabs and Muslims, who
should take advantage of the (current) situation" in the Middle
East, he said.


"The situation is not good neither for the Israelis nor for the
Americans. The former are facing a profound domestic crisis of
confidence while the United States is suffering one failure after
another," he said, referring especially to the problems facing
the United States in Iraq.


The Al-Quds Foundation congress, which was opened by Algerian
Religious Affairs Minister Bouabdallah Ghlamllah on Monday, was
scheduled to continue through Wednesday.

