

The US Treasury's point man on financial crime met Chinese
officials on Monday in hopes of resolving a banking dispute that
has stalled North Korean nuclear disarmament talks, his
spokeswoman said.


Daniel Glaser, the deputy assistant secretary for terrorist
financing and financial crimes, held talks with officials from
China's foreign ministry, the central bank and the country's
banking industry regulator, said spokeswoman Molly Millerwise,
who added further talks were expected Tuesday.


Glaser's Beijing visit is aimed at clearing obstacles blocking
the transfer of 25 million dollars of North Korean funds that had
been frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia since 2005.


The latest round of six-party talks -- involving the two Koreas,
the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- ended abruptly in
Beijing last week when Pyongyang refused to negotiate further
until it received the cash.


"The discussions have focused on addressing implementation
matters. As expected, the meetings were constructive and
forthcoming," Millerwise said, offering no further details.


"We anticipate additional meetings on Tuesday."


The return of the money was part of a six-party agreement reached
last month under which North Korea was to dismantle its nuclear
weapons programme in return for economic and energy aid.


However, the designated recipient, state-owned Bank of China, has
reportedly refused to accept the money for fear the transaction
may hurt its credit rating.


The US effectively blacklisted Banco Delta Asia on suspicion it
was handling the proceeds of North Korean counterfeiting and
money-laundering, but Washington recently cleared the way for the
release of the funds to get the nuclear deal going.


Glaser said earlier that authorities in Macau and Beijing wanted
to ensure any transfer of the money was "consistent with their
own laws and with their international obligations."


"We are bringing Treasury expertise to help the Macanese and
Chinese wade through some of these implementation issues," he
said in a statement.

