

UN war crimes prosecutor Carla Del Ponte called for a tougher
international justice system in an article published on Monday
that sharply criticised the Bush administration's role in world
affairs.


Del Ponte argued in a Swiss newspaper that international courts
should have the power to rule in a binding manner in disputes
between states and to prosecute tyrants regardless of political
considerations.


"Should the world of tomorrow be ruled by law -- or through naked
power?" Del Ponte wrote in the Basler Zeitung, blasting the
collapse of a "just and democratic" world order since the
September 11 attacks in the United States.


The Swiss magistrate, who is due to step down from the
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia this
year, pointed to chaos in Afghanistan, in Irak, a "suspected
genocide" in Darfur, repression in Russia, and the prevalence of
military might.


"In a spectacular swing of the pendulum, we have been tipped from
a world that was heading toward the rule of law to a world that
is characterised by power politics and despotism," Del Ponte
wrote.


"Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib are the symbols of American failure in
the Bush era," she added.


Human rights groups and officials have repeatedly challenged the
detention regime and restricted military trials for terror
suspects and Afghan fighters held at the US military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


Baghdad's notorious Abu Ghraib jail gained notoriety when it was
revealed that US forces had abused Iraqi detainees there in 2003,
prompting the prosecution of some US officers. Control of the
jail was transferred to Iraqi authorities last September.


"When American values are in free fall, the West as a whole loses
its credibility, despite Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schroeder's
worthy opposition to the Iraq expedition," Del Ponte said.


Del Ponte said the International Court of Justice in The Hague
was one of the most important parts of the United Nations, but
needed to be reformed and strengthened to make its rulings
binding on all states.


"There must be a World Court that is charged with ruling on
disputes between states," she said.


Rulings by the ICJ are often ignored by states and the UN's top
court has no power to enforce its decisions.


The International Criminal Court set up in 2002 also needed to be
strengthened and must resist political attempts to restrict its
actions, Del Ponte argued.


"A tyrant who has several thousand deaths on his conscience must
not be spared just because he is useful for a country's
stability," Del Ponte said.


The UN war crimes prosecutor has been sharply critical of the
failure to arrest former Bosnian Serb leaders Radovan Karadzic
and Ratko Mladic to face charges of genocide.

