

The United States has no plans to attack Iran and its beefed-up
naval presence in the Gulf region is meant to keep the area
peaceful, the chief of US naval operations said Monday.


Admiral Michael Mullen, who is visiting key US ally Pakistan for
talks with officials, said efforts were focused on a diplomatic
solution to resolve the ongoing row over Tehran's nuclear
programme.


"There is no plan for an attack on Iran," Mullen told reporters
after the talks.


"We've had a strong naval presence in this part of the world for
many, many decades. We recently added some ships that are meant
to provide reassurances to our friends, to show continued
commitment to the area," Mullen said.


"This is a vital region and the goal is to provide the strength
and stability that we need to ensure that it remains quiet and
peaceful.


"So there is absolutely no plan that I am aware of that involves
an attack on Iran."


The US has two aircraft carriers in the Gulf, the highest level
US naval presence in the strategic oil shipping channel since the
US invasion of Iraq in March 2003.


Tensions rose after Iran seized 15 British naval personnel in the
northern Gulf on March 23 for illegally entering the country's
territorial waters. Britain said they were in Iraqi waters.


The group were freed two weeks later in what Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said was an Easter "gift" to Britain, after
some were shown on Iranian television making apparent confessions
about their "mistake".


Mullen slammed the Iranian seizure of the British sailors. "The
incident took place in Iraqi waters. It is a matter of concern,"
he said.


He reiterated US accusations that "technical materials" from Iran
had been used to kill American soldiers in Iraq. "That concerns
me greatly in terms of how Iran has supported our enemy in this
world," he said.


On Iran's controversial refusal to suspend uranium enrichment
work -- a process the West fears could be used to make nuclear
weapons -- Mullen said he believed all efforts were focused "on
diplomatic channels."


Meanwhile the US naval chief said that the "biggest challenge"
facing US forces remained the fight against terrorism, and
strongly defended his country's alliance with Pakistan.


President Pervez Musharraf dropped Pakistan's support for the
Taliban regime in Afghanistan and backed the US invasion of the
neighbouring country following Al- Qaeda's September 11, 2001
attacks on the United States.


The Taliban had harboured Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden.


"The biggest challenge that we are in at this time is the global
war on terror which will last, I believe, for decades. It will
not be short-term. That is why this partnership and relationship
(with Pakistan) is so important," he said.


He called Musharraf "a courageous partner in this global war on
terror" and said he was "very encouraged" by the Pakistani
leader's achievements.

