

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene won the toss and elected to
bat against Australia in the World Cup Super Eights match at the
Grenada National Stadium here Monday.


Both sides have already qualified for the semi-finals.


Defending two-time champions Australia, on a 25-game unbeaten run
at the World Cup since losing to Pakistan during the 1999
tournament in England, made one change to the side that beat
Ireland by nine wickets in Barbados on Friday with the previously
rested Nathan Bracken returning in place of Stuart Clark.


But while Australia were fielding their first-choice side, Sri
Lanka were under strength.


The 1996 champions, were without injured fast bowler Lasith
Malinga for the second successive match.


However, they also made two changes to the team that beat New
Zealand by six wickets here Thursday, with left-arm quick
Chaminda Vaas and off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan, two of their
leading wicket-takers and stars of the 1996 World Cup-winning
team, omitted.


Their places were taken by leg-spinner Malinga Bandara and pace
bowler Nuwan Kulasekara, both of whom were making their debuts at
this tournament.


Sri Lanka's strategy had the effect of denying Australia's
batsmen a fresh look at both Vaas and Muralitharan ahead of a
possible semi-final or final  match.


Sri Lanka's only defeat in this tournament so far was a one-
wicket Super Eights loss to South Africa in Guyana on March 28.


Teams


Australia: Adam Gilchrist (wk), Matthew Hayden, Ricky Ponting
(capt), Michael Clarke, Andrew Symonds, Brad Hodge, Michael
Hussey, Brad Hogg, Nathan Bracken, Shaun Tait, Glenn McGrath


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jayawardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Farveez Maharoof, Nuwan Kulasekara,
Malinga Bandara, Dilhara Fernando


Umpires: Billy Doctrove (WIS), Aleem Dar (PAK)


TV umpire: Mark Benson (ENG)


Match referee: Mike Procter (RSA)


Reserve umpire: Daryl Harper (AUS)


Pitch: Much will depend on how much the pitch has been watered
with residual moisture likely to assist pace bowlers. However,
blue skies overhead should reduce the likelihood of swing
movement.


Weather: Chance of a thunderstorm. Temperature rising to 87
degrees Fahrenheit (31 degrees Centigrade)

