

East Timor officials said Monday they have found more
discrepancies in last week's presidential election while
stressing the poll's outcome will remain unchanged.


Some votes counted in the poll, the first since the impoverished
nation gained its independence in 2002, would be re-checked amid
concerns they were not filled in properly, they said.


"This afternoon, we will reopen 42 ballot boxes because the
documents (inside) were incomplete," National Election Commission
spokesman Martinho Gusmao told reporters.


Voter turnout was high for last Monday's election and East
Timorese hope that concerns about the credibility of the poll
will not plunge the tiny nation back into turmoil and bloodshed.


After a closely fought race, the ruling Fretilin party's
Francisco Guterres and Nobel Peace laureate Jose Ramos-Horta will
contest a run-off as neither gained more than 50 percent of the
vote.


Gusmao said the votes concerned were lodged in seven districts,
including the capital Dili, and were originally counted in
Monday's poll.


He declined to specify the problem with the votes nor the number
involved.


Gusmao also said the election commission had lodged legal action
seeking to re- examine votes placed in another 26 ballot boxes.


"The CNE (national election commission) is submitting a request
to the court of appeal to be allowed to see again 26 ballot boxes
because of an inconsistency in data," he said, without saying
what the inconsistency was.


Gusmao stressed that the checks on votes would not affect the
outcome of Monday's election which will proceed to the run-off on
May 8.


"The checks on those data do not mean that (they) would change
the existing preliminary results," he said.


The checks come after it emerged on Saturday that a district with
100,000 eligible voters had produced three times as many votes.
The discrepancy was later put down to a technical error.


The opposition Democrat Party said it was preparing legal action
in a bid to prompt the courts to instigate a probe into the way
the poll was conducted.


"It is now public knowledge that the recently held presidential
election in Timor Leste on April 9, 2007 is after all not free
and fair, as most serious irregularities have been found and
reported countrywide," failed candidate and party chairman
Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo told reporters.


A number of candidates have also claimed that some voters were
intimidated, stoking fears of instability in the troubled state
ahead of the second round.


Foreign peacekeepers have been in East Timor for nearly a year to
ensure stability after gang violence in May last year left 37
people dead and sent 150,000 more fleeing their homes.

