

Thousands of BBC staff across Britain on Monday held a silent
vigil to remember its kidnapped Gaza correspondent Alan Johnston
after a Palestinian group said it had killed him.


Journalists and other employees at the London-based broadcaster
fell silent at 2:15 pm (1315 GMT) -- the exact time on March 12,
five weeks ago, when he was snatched at gunpoint as he returned
to his Gaza City home from his office.


At the BBC's Television Centre headquarters in west London,
director-general Mark Thompson told staff that the last 24 hours
had been difficult but reiterated that reports of Johnston's
death were still unsubstantiated.


"For more than a day now we have been seeking independent
clarification and demanding urgent clarification from the Foreign
Office and the Palestinians but right now the report is simply
rumour," he said.


He also paid tribute to 44-year-old Johnston's "remarkable
family", especially his parents Graham and Margaret, describing
them as "resilient". The BBC's head of news, Helen Boaden, was
with them at their home in Scotland.


"Clearly the wait for news is agonising for them as it is for
Alan's colleagues in the Middle East," Thompson said.


"Alan Johnston is a modest man. He would be surprised, perhaps
even a little embarrassed by all the attention he's receiving."


Echoing Boaden's comment at a news conference in the Middle East
last week to mark the first month of Johnston's detention that
the reporter was "our boy", he added: "He is, and we all want him
back".


Vigils were held at Television Centre and outside BBC World
Service radio in London, Birmingham (west central England),
Glasgow and Aberdeen in Scotland and also outside the European
Parliament building in Brussels.


Earlier, the BBC said in a statement said it was "highly
concerned" for Johnston's safety and was seeking "urgent
clarification" from both the British and Palestinian authorities.


A group called Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy
War and Unity) said in a statement issued to news outlets Sunday,
including the BBC, that it had executed the reporter.


Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman
said: "People on the ground... are actively engaged into looking
into (the reports of Johnston's execution).


"We continue to work extremely closely with the Palestinian
Authority and we are urgently seeking information through them
and other sources on these reports."

