

Britain's likely next prime minister, Gordon Brown, has praised
Nobel laureate and Myanmar pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi
as defining "the meaning of courage".


In an extract from his new book, "Courage: Eight Portraits",
extracts of which were published in The Guardian Monday, Brown
said Aung San Suu Kyi's struggle since her arrest in 1989 was
"the absolute expression of selflessness".


Her National League for Democracy party won elections in 1990 but
was barred from taking power by the military.


She has spent most of the subsequent 17 years under house arrest,
during which time her husband, Michael Aris, died and her
children have grown up.


"For me, Suu Kyi defines the meaning of courage," Brown wrote.


"Once, courage was seen chiefly as a battlefield virtue...


"But Suu Kyi represents the power not of the powerful but of the
powerless: a woman, a prisoner of conscience up against a state
with one of the worst human rights violation records in the
world."


He added that she realised that "her responsibility extended
beyond her private life" and that she could only draw the world's
attention to the plight of other prisoners of conscience by
"fully sharing their privations".


"Suu Kyi's courage is the courage to sacrifice her own happiness
and a comfortable life so that, through her struggle, she might
win the right of an entire nation to seek happy and comfortable
lives," he wrote.


"It is the absolute expression of selflessness."


Brown, currently finance minister, is favourite to take over from
Tony Blair when he steps down before September -- although he
could still face a challenge from lawmakers loyal to the prime
minister opposed to his style of working.


The serious-minded Scottish church minister's son has sought to
portray himself as a conviction politician and at the weekend
called for more emphasis on policy over personality in politics.


Brown's book aims to raise money for a charity set up in the name
of his daughter Jennifer, who was born prematurely in 2002 and
died a few days later.


Other figures featured in the book include US civil rights leader
Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela and Robert Kennedy.

