

Candidates came forward Monday for the post of Turkey's
president, but Islamist- rooted Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan remained tight-lipped on his intentions amid protests by
secular forces.


Parliament, which elects the president, began accepting
nominations two days after an estimated 500,000 people rallied in
Ankara to discourage Erdogan, 53, from standing for the
presidency.


Although largely symbolic, the presidency embodies the secular
regime of this Muslim majority country and many fear the strict
separation of state and religion will be eroded if a former
Islamist gets the job.


Organised by a militant secularist association, Saturday's rally
brought together people from across the political spectrum, from
hardline nationalists to pro-Western liberals.


Presidential candidates have a 10-day period -- until midnight on
April 25 -- during which to submit their applications.


Erdogan, currently visiting Germany, has yet to say whether he
will run and has hinted that he could wait until the last minute
before announcing his decision.


The prime minister began his political career in a now-defunct
Islamist party banned for undermining secularism. At one point he
was jailed for religious sedition.


He now describes himself as a "conservative democrat" and says he
has disowned his fundamentalist past.


But his critics remain skeptical and point to past declarations
such as, "I favour Shariah," or "you can be either secular or
Muslim."


"Those remarks were mistakes," Erdogan's chief political adviser
Omer Celik told the liberal daily Milliyet on Monday.


"In any case," he said, "the prime minister does not say that he
still stands behind those words, nor does he say that those are
his goals. Has he done anything during this tenure to confirm
those remarks? No."


Since coming to power in 2002, Erdogan's government has achieved
strong economic growth and enacted several reforms to align the
country with the norms of the European Union, which it is seeking
to join.


But it also made unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict businesses that serve alcohol to special zones and ease
access to universities for graduates of Muslim preachers'
schools.


The government "could have performed better in preventing
political abuse of religion," Celik acknowledged, but said
Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) observes
constitutional principles "at the highest level."


Erdogan hinted while speaking to reporters on his flight to
Germany that his political views, past or present, would have no
bearing on his possible tenure as president.


"One leaves one's political identity behind when serving as
president," the mass-circulation Sabah daily quoted him as
saying.


Parliament elects the president for a single seven-year term and
the AKP holds a comfortable majority, with 353 of the single
chamber's 550 seats.


This means that if he wants the job, Erdogan will get it,
probably not in the first two rounds of voting when a two-thirds
majority of 367 is required, but in a third or fourth round, when
a simple majority of 276 votes suffices.


The constitution calls for early general elections if lawmakers
fail to elect a president in four rounds of voting.


Parliament has yet to finalize the schedule of the presidential
vote, but the first round is expected on April 26 or May 3, the
Anatolia news agency said.


The mandate of outgoing president Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunchly
secular former judge, ends on May 16.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has a one-
time right to reject bills passed by parliament and the final
word on appointing senior government officials.

