

Russian President Vladimir Putin decreed on Monday the merger of
pipeline operators Transneft and Transnefteprodukt within five
months, the Kremlin said.


The merger operation, which is expected to take place in stages,
is aimed at "forming a single network of oil and oil products via
the pipelines and protecting the economic interests of the
Russian federation," according to the text.


The process will start with the total privatisation of
Transnefteprodukt and an increase in the capital of Transneft,
which is quoted on the stock exchange and owned 75 percent by the
state.


The process will end with a share swap against new Transneft
shares.


The Russian state's share in the new entity will be unchanged at
75 percent plus one share.


Transnefteprodukt, which controls around 19,000 kilometres
(11,800 miles) of pipeline in former Soviet countries like
Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus is currently 100 percent owned by
the Russian state.


It employs 15,700 people and its main customers are Gazprom Neft,
Yukos and Lukoil according to its internet site.


Transneft owns more than 43,000 kilometres (26,700 miles) of
pipeline and carries 93 percent of the oil produced in the
country.


It is partly quoted on the stock exchange, while the Russian
state holds all the voting rights in the company.


An Moscow-based analyst at investment bank Renaissance Capital,
Alexander Burgansky, said the deal was a "first step," adding
that other oil transport companies could be added to the group
later in the year.


The move was part of a government strategy of consolidating the
power of the state in the energy sector.


"They're bigger together. It doesn't create a particularly strong
synergies, but I think it just demonstrates that the government
is committed to creating the champion in the area of oil products
and oil transportation."


Russia has a policy of creating national champions in strategic
sectors of the economy, Burgansky underlined, such as defence,
aerospace or car manufacturing.

