

Limited resources inhibit China's fight against copyright piracy
and a WTO case launched by the United States over the issue is
not helping, a top Chinese copyright protection official said
Monday.


"Our resources are limited," Wang Ziqiang, a director general at
the National Copyright Administration, told AFP in an interview.


"The US and China have had close cooperation on this in the past.
We cannot end our cooperation just because of this problem."


The United States last week took China before the World Trade
Organisation over "rampant" abuse of copyrights and other
intellectual property rights in China.


China has criticised the move as counterproductive to bilateral
trade ties.


Wang, who heads the administration's Copyright Department,
defended China's efforts against property rights violators but
acknowledged deficiencies.


"China's attitude and effort have been good and achievements have
been seen, but have not yet reached what we consider an ideal
level," he said.


The US trade complaint cited what Washington sees as inadequate
Chinese efforts to stamp out such piracy, which US firms claim
robs them of billions of dollars in sales each year.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab also said China's thresholds
for criminal prosecution remain too high and need to be lowered.


However, Wang said the solution to the problem relies less in
enforcement than in educating the public on copyright protection.


"Laws and administrative efforts are not enough. If the public
does not recognise the importance of IPR protection and they
chase after cheap pirated goods, then huge market demand remains
and piracy will continue to exist."


Counterfeit DVDs, music CDs, apparel, and other brand-name
fashion items are freely available in large cities in China.


But Wang deflected suggestions that this meant China was not
serious about enforcement.


"These products can be found in Europe and America as well. Does
this mean we can say those government are not going anything
either?"

