

Team New Zealand, competing here in the Louis Vuitton Cup, may be
thousands of miles from base but the presence in Valencia of
their Prime Minister Helen Clark and a maori war canoe will help
to offset any homesickness.


Clark arrived in Valencia on Friday to boost the Kiwis' bid to
win the Louis Vuitton, which started here Monday, and go on to
challenge America's Cup defender Alinghi in June.


She took up position as the boat's 18th 'man' in Team New
Zealand's opening round robin race against Italy's Mascalzone
Latino-Capitalia Team.


While there was no space on the vessel for the maori warriors
they had proved the big draw when performing the haka on board
the New Zealand yacht in front of a 20,000 crowd at Saturday's
boat parade.


The New Zealanders' challenge has been ardently supported by the
New Zealand government and skipper Dean Barker made reference to
that when he said: "It's great to have the PM on board as, if it
hadn't been for the New Zealand government putting their hand up
after the last defence, we wouldn't be here."


Before boarding NZL 92 Clark said: "What better way to show your
support for the team than to join it.


"Emirates Team New Zealand has the goodwill of New Zealand as a
country behind it.


"The government showed early support for this challenge, and that
was critical to enable Emirates Team New Zealand to assemble the
big sponsors necessary to mount the challenge. I am pleased to be
able to support it."


Clark has a flight booked leaving Valencia at 1700GMT but as the
plane she's using has been put at her disposition by the New
Zealand Royal Air Force, she won't need to worry too much about
being delayed out on the water.


Clark was not the only non-yachting luminary to be granted 18th
'man' status on the opening day of the Luis Vuitton Cup, which
runs from Monday through to May 6.


Demi Moore's US actor husband Ashton Kutcher was invited on board
Italy's Luna Rossa and the German model Tatjana Patitz added a
touch of glamour to BMW Oracle Racing's match with United
Internet Team Germany.

