

Inflation in the 13 countries sharing the euro rose slightly in
March on higher energy prices but remained at the ECB's preferred
level for the seventh-month running, official EU data showed
Monday.


Twelve-month eurozone inflation edged up in March to 1.9 percent
from 1.8 percent the previous month, the EU's Eurostat data
agency said, confirming a previous estimate.


The increase was spot on private economists' forecasts and was in
line with the European Central Bank's preference for an annual
inflation rate of less than but close to two percent.


With economic activity in the eurozone brisk, the ECB is keen to
keep inflation pressures firmly under control and last week sent
a clear signal that it was set to raise its key interest rates in
June.


"Unsurprisingly, energy was the main driver of (the) inflation
pick up," said economist Marco Valli at Italian bank Unicredit.


Headline inflation has closely followed the trend on global oil
markets where prices rose to a six-month high last month just shy
of 70 dollars a barrel as tensions flared between London and
Tehran over Iran holding 15 British naval personnel, who were
eventually released.


While headline inflation rose slightly in March, underlying price
growth was unchanged, halting a steady rise in recent months.


Stripping out the impact of energy and unprocessed food, 12-month
consumer price inflation was stable at 1.9 percent in March,
Eurostat said.


In the 27-nation European Union, inflation also rose slightly in
March, edging up to 2.2 percent from 2.1 percent in February.


European inflation has remained largely tame since the beginning
of the year despite expectations for a pick-up due to a full
three percentage point increase in value added tax in January in
Germany, the biggest economy in Europe.


"The impact of the three-point German VAT hike is more muted than
expected," said Morgan Stanley economist Elga Bartsch.


Many economists expect inflation to fall in coming months because
of the statistical impact of comparisons from a year ago, when
consumer prices rose on the back of increased oil prices.


However, inflation is then widely seen picking up in the second
half of the year, keeping the ECB on the look out for upward
pressures on consumer prices.


"The ECB is looking beyond current inflation levels, and sees
significant medium-term threats to price stability stemming from
potentially higher wages," said Global Insight economist Howard
Archer.


"On top of this the ECB believes that ongoing robust eurozone
growth means that there is no need for monetary policy to be at
all accomodative," he added.

