

TV addicts looked set to make the leap from couch to computer or
cellphone, as TV, Internet, mobile phone, video game and
advertising execs gathered Monday to mull how to propel their
converging worlds into one future.


Giving a first pointer on the times to come, reality TV pioneer
Endemol, maker of the hit "Big Brother" series, said it was
teaming up with interactive gaming leader Electronic Arts to
launch a new virtual world for television addicts, after
Internet's "Second Life" and "Cyworld".


The creation of "Virtual Me", a digital entertainment concept
marrying traditional TV with video games, was announced at the
opening of one of the world's largest broadcasting and
audiovisual trade events, the five-day MIPTV/MILIA trade show,


The drive to entertain fragmenting audiences as TV and video jump
out of the box onto a plethora of new screens -- from the tiny
mobile phone to PCs, handheld gaming devices and even the iconic
iPod -- is at the centre of the five-day show.


"The amount of innovation and flux going on within the confines
of TV is pretty breathtaking," marketing guru Joseph Jaffe,
author of best-selling advertising book, "Life After The 30
Second Spot," told the daily MIPTV News.


"Innovation is no longer a nice-to-have, it's a have-to-have.
It's an absolute necessity for survival."


Increasing competition as large numbers of new players worldwide
fight traditional broadcasters for a bigger slice of action has
attracted record numbers of more than 13,000 participants to this
year's market.


The growth in content for TV, Internet (IPTV), cellphones and
other platforms is more about reaching niche rather than mass
audiences, Paul Johnson, television director for the show's
organisers, Reed MIDEM, told AFP.


"The future will have consumers dictating what they want to
watch, when they want. It will offer more choices across more
platforms than at any other time in our history of the medium,"
Johnson emphasised.


The Asian digital power houses were in Cannes in force, with
Japan, South Korea and China bringing large delegations.


More than 3,570 TV buyers from around the world are also due to
attend, up eight percent from last year. Regions expected to come
on a buying spree include Eastern Europe and the Middle East as
well as Asia Pacific.


Run in parallel with the hectic buying and selling, brainstorming
sessions will tackle burning issues such as whether "green TV"
can become prime-time TV.


Increased environmental concern about global warming has sparked
a new trend in TV programming and is behind the recent launch of
a couple of dedicated "green" channels. The United Nations will
be in town to offer its slew of green-themed documentaries and
series.


All eyes will also be on the MIPTV/MILIA "Content 360"
international competition inaugurated last year to generate
innovative, interactive entertainment that will work on the Web,
cellphones, and other new and emerging new media platforms.


But although more key players than ever before from the Internet,
cellphone, video-on-demand and advertising worlds will jet in for
the event, demand is expected to be high for the old favourite,
bread-and-butter TV staples.


The popularity of the oft-maligned but hugely successful non-
scripted TV formats that have sent reality, cooking, home-
improvements and quiz shows around the globe are still riding
high.


Recent scripted drama and comedy hits from the United States are
also on many buy-lists while the recent upsurge in docudramas
also shows no sign of abating, industry watchers note.


The show is truly global with 102 countries expected to attend,
10 percent more than last year. New boys on the block include
Bangladesh, Belarus, Macedonia, Senegal and the Democratic
Republic of Congo.

