

France on Monday marked the 90th anniversary of one of the French
army's most disastrous World War I battles, a fiasco marked by
widespread mutiny and massive loss of life.


The Second Battle of the Aisne was the main offensive of a wider
campaign that was intended to bring a flash victory in under 48
hours through a massive onslaught on German lines cutting across
northern France.


Launched on April 16, 1917 under orders from the French armed
forces chief General Robert Nivelle, the offensive failed,
leading to a bloodbath in which 40,000 French troops died and
80,000 were injured. It achieved virtually nothing in terms of
territorial gain.


The operation -- known in French as the Battle of the Chemin des
Dames, or "Ladies' Way" after the area where it took place --
went down in history as a military fiasco, and led to Nivelle's
replacement as army chief on May 15.


Suffering from heavy losses and appalling living conditions, and
angry at what they saw as poor command, an estimated 30,000 to
40,000 French troops -- farmers, miners, factory workers --
downed their weapons in mutiny in the following weeks.


Some 49 French soldiers were shot, 27 of them for desertion,
during the Chemin de Dames campaign, according to General Andre
Bach, a former senior army historian.


France's minister for veterans, Hamlaoui Mekachera, on Monday
chaired an inter- religious ceremony at a war memorial in Cerny
en Laonnois in the northern Aisne department, at which Catholic,
Muslim and Jewish prayers were read out.


"We adults have a duty to pass on the torch of memory to the
younger generations," he said. "Memory is fragile, it could
vanish if we are not careful. We must bring it back to life
whenever possible."


Afterwards 90 schoolchildren laid flowers on the tombs of 90
soldiers, in several local cemeteries across the area.


Events commemorating the battle kicked off on Sunday night, when
a trail of torches lit up the 20 kilometres (12 miles) between
Reims and Soissons, today linked by a regional highway.


Early Monday morning a guided walk took hikers along the ground
covered by French troops -- a 90-minute journey which took the
troops 20 days.


"This is about giving the Chemin des Dames its place in history,
alongside Verdun and other more glorious events," said historian
Guy Marival, in charge of organising the ceremonies.


Commemorations are to last until September 22, when France's next
president -- in presence of several African leaders -- will
unveil a monument to the memory of troops from France's west
African colonies who fell in World War I.

