

Palestinian officials said on Monday there was still no
confirmation of a claim by an Islamic group that it had killed
kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston in Gaza, as his parents
said they were "desperately" worried.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity),
claimed in a statement on Sunday to have killed the 44-year-old
Johnston, whose whereabouts have remained unknown since he was
forced at gunpoint from his car in Gaza City more than a month
ago.


But Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas said there
was no proof that the claim by the little-known group was true.


"We don't have any information that can confirm that authenticity
of the statement," Haniya said. "We are following this affair. We
are examining all avenues to confirm the authenticity of this
information but for the moment it is not confirmed."


In London, the British Broadcasting Corporation and the Foreign
Office said Monday they were still working to secure independent
verification of the claim.


No Westerner has so far been killed after being abducted in Gaza,
where hostages are usually used to gain concessions from the
authorities and are usually released unharmed within days of
their kidnapping.


Meanwhile Johnston's parents issued an emotional plea for the end
of their five- week ordeal.


"This is a desperately worrying time for us," Graham and Margaret
Johnston said in a statement.


"We make a heartfelt appeal to anyone who may have knowledge of
Alan's situation and well-being to contact the authorities in
Gaza.


"Our son has lived and worked among the people of Gaza for the
last three years to bring their story to the outside world and we
ask everyone of them to help end this ordeal."


In Beirut, dozens of Lebanese and foreign journalists staged the
latest protest in solidarity with Johnston, carrying pictures of
him in front of the Lebanese press syndicate headquarters.


"We call on those who are holding him to release him
immediately," BBC reporter in Beirut Nada Abdel Samad said during
the protest.


"Our colleague continued to work professionally despite being
aware of the dangers" of covering news in the increasingly
lawless Palestinian territory, she added.


Johnston, one of the few Western journalists to both live and
work in Gaza, was abducted at gunpoint on March 12 as he drove
home from work, just weeks before his three-year posting in the
increasingly lawless territory was to end.


Before Sunday's statement, which was sent to news outlets in the
Middle East, nobody had claimed responsibility for the kidnap and
nothing had been heard of his whereabouts.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed -- which has the same name as a group
set up by Al- Qaeda in Iraq, although it is not clear if the two
are linked -- said it had killed Johnston to put pressure on the
Palestinian authorities.


The BBC said Sunday it was "deeply concerned" at the development,
but said there had been no independent verification that their
correspondent was dead.


On the one-month anniversary of Johnston's kidnap, the BBC held a
day of action to step up calls for his release.


BBC director-general Mark Thompson said Palestinian leader Mahmud
Abbas had told him he had "credible evidence" Johnston was safe
and well and that the authorities were "fully engaged" in the
case and working to resolve it.


Thousands of people from around the world have signed a petition
calling for Johnston's release, with hundreds posting messages of
support on the BBC News website.


Palestinian journalists have also organised a series of strikes
and rallies to protest his abduction.


Johnston, who has worked for the BBC for 16 years and has been
posted to Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, is one of a number of
Western journalists and aid workers to have been kidnapped in
Gaza in recent years.

