

Roger Federer on Monday issued a warning to ATP supremo Etienne
de Villiers to slow the pace of tennis reform in the face of
united opposition from players.


The world number one, flanked by second-ranked rival Rafael
Nadal, present a unified stand from top competitors concerned
that the men's sanctioning body is rushing to revise the circuit
by 2009.


Those plans looks to include a downgrade of the Masters Series
status of the historic Monte Carlo event, being played this week.


"This is a scream for help," said the Swiss, who expressed his
frustration that administrators from both the ATP as well as the
ITF, which oversees the four Grand Slams, are powering ahead
without listening at all to players.


"We've not been happy the past few months. A (player) meeting in
Miami (last month) was a big disappointment. These decisions need
to be taken more slowly, we want a say as well.


"We're the ones out there on court in the tennis shorts, they're
not."


ITF head Francesco Ricci Bitti immediatley issued reassurances to
the disgruntled players:


"The ITF wants to assure the players that we have listened to
their views about the scheduling of Davis Cup," he said in a
statement.


"Following the Australian Open in January, the ITF entered into
constructive discussions with the ATP about the scheduling of
Davis Cup in the calendar and we are confident that we can come
to an agreement including the possibility of ranking points that
will please all of our constituents.


"We have been working quietly behind the scenes to make the right
decision for Davis Cup. It seems that the players may not be
fully aware of the status of our discussions with the ATP but we
want to be clear that we have taken their views into
consideration as we plan the future of Davis Cup."


Federer and Nadal stand united in asking the ATP to consider
carefully the ramifications of cutting the current nine Masters
Series tournaments to seven in 2009, with Monte Carlo and Hamburg
tipped for likely downgrades.


Both events recently filed suit in Delaware against the ATP.


Shanghai is likely to be added as the eighth Masters after being
stripped of the season-ending Masters Cup from 2008.


Federer was among scores of players who recently signed a letter
to the ATP, which the Swiss star says the body appears to have
taken no notice of.


"We need to speak with the bosses, things are going too fast,"
said the cautious Swiss amid reports that a provisional 2009
calendar is set to be unveiled within a week or two.


Federer, who admitted that he would much rather be concentrating
on his tennis after losing back-to-back matches last month on
American hardcourt against Guillermo Canas, is top seed at Monte
Carlo this week.


He lost the final in 2006 against Nadal, who won three run-up
titles on the way to a second consecutive trophy at the French
Open last June.


"I've had many meetings with ET (De Villiers). He listens but
then goes and does things his way - I wish he would listen more.


"We've gone from (predecessor) Mark Miles doing nothing to ET
doing too much."


While Federer's Swiss upbringing gave his words a serious, non-
confrontational tone, there was pure venom from world number
three Nikolay Davydenko.


"ET says 'trust me' like all Americans," he said of the South
African CEO. "He wants too much trust, you can only believe five
or ten percent of his decisions."


The administrator was forced to roll back a controversial
experimental round- robin doubles format this spring after it
went badly wrong at the Las Vegas tournament, a chaotic situation
which Federer in particular had predicted from the start.


Davydenko also questions why none of the four North American
Masters Series events were touched in the planned shakeup,
leaving the Americans with Indian Wells, Miami and Cincinnati and
Canada with it's August event.


Players are particularly incensed that Monte Carlo - European
headquarters of the ATP - is set to be downgraded.


"We like Monte Carlo," said the Russian. "That's why we play it.
I don't think ET has even seen our letter."


ATP Player Board president Ivan Ljubicic also called for a re-
think before it's too late while still maintaining the calm.


"We don't want it to come to a situation where we say we don't
want to play," said the Croatian. "ET didn't know much tennis
when he took the job (in 2005).


"He's been willing to learn, but it seems like the advice from
those around him has not been that good.


"We don't have time to lose. People who will be putting on
tournaments in 2009 still don't know what kind of a tournament
they will have. It could soon be too late (for player input).


"We don't have much time, it's only a year and a half away."

