

Finland's new centre-right government, to be formally appointed
this week after its March election victory, aims to cut taxes and
get Finns back to work while maintaining a generous welfare
system.


The government's programme for the next four years, announced
Sunday, is seen as heavily influenced by the conservatives, which
have been awarded the most important cabinet posts after emerging
as the big winners of the March 18 legislative elections.


Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen's Centre Party won the elections
with just a one seat advantage over the conservative National
Coalition Party, which knocked the Social Democrats out of the
ruling coalition.


On Sunday, Vanhanen announced that his Centre Party had reached
an agreement to form a government with the conservatives, the
Greens and the Swedish People's Party, which together hold 125 of
the 200 seats in parliament.


The accord calls for tax cuts of almost two billion euros by 2011
-- less than the 2.7 billion euros slashed between 2003 and 2007
under the previous centre- left government -- and a reform of
unemployment benefits to an incentive-based system to get Finns
back to work.


The new government stressed however that it would maintain the
country's generous welfare system and the tripartite structure
(employers, unions and state) that has governed the Finnish
labour market system since the 1930s.


"It's not hostile, it's a good starting point," the chief
economist for the SAK trade union confederation, Olli Koski, told
AFP when asked to comment on the government programme.


However, he said SAK was concerned about the reform of
unemployment insurance and predicted "difficult discussions" in
the autumn round of wage negotiations.


The employers' union EK meanwhile welcomed the four-year
programme.


Income tax will be cut by 1.1 billion euros, with special
reductions planned for senior citizens. Value added tax on food
will be reduced from 17 to 12 percent, while inheritance tax will
also be reduced.


However taxes on alcohol and tobacco, already among the highest
in the world, will be increased further.


The new government said it hoped to create between 80,000 and
100,000 new jobs by 2011, though SAK has criticized that goal as
"insufficient".


Finland has the highest unemployment rate of the Nordic
countries, registering 7.0 percent in February compared to 3.9
percent for Denmark.


As part of its focus on employment policy, the government will
create a "superministry" for the labour market and the economy in
2008.


Single-parent families and families with more than three children
will also see their benefits raised, while paternity leave will
be extended (from 18 days to 32 days) as of 2010.


When it comes to foreign policy the new coalition has promised
continuity, but said it planned to extend its transatlantic
cooperation with the United States and Canada.


Tuomas Forsberg, a professor at Helsinki University, said that
announcement signalled "a bigger opening" toward NATO, a
sensitive subject in Finland which shares a 1,300-kilometer
(800-mile) eastern border with Russia.


However, Forsberg said he did not expect Finland to seek NATO
membership under the new coalition even though the conservatives
were awarded both the foreign affairs and defence portfolios.


"The conservative party is the only party in Finland where a
majority of supporters are in favour of NATO membership. The
population as a whole is not positive," he said.


The new government, in which the conservatives and the Centre
Party will each hold eight portfolios, will be formally appointed
by President Tarja Halonen on Thursday.

