

Zimbabwe's government, which has indefinitely postponed the
latest set of inflation figures, appears increasingly panicked
over its losing battle against the country's "economic HIV,"
analysts said.


Central Statistical Office acting director Moffat Nyoni told AFP
on Monday he was still hoping to announce the figures for March
by the end of the week after ironing out a "few technical
glitches."


But a finance ministry staffer, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said the CSO was under instructions to "withhold the
figures until further notice."


After the inflation announcement was postponed twice last week,
also for "technical" reasons, most observers believe the real
explanation is a sense of panic over the surge beyond the 2,000
percent mark, defying previous forecasts.


"Official projections have been far off the mark and naturally
there is anxiety on the part of the officials," financial analyst
Best Doroh told AFP.


"But there is no way to water down the figures to match the
official predictions because the movement of prices is in the
opposite direction to what has been projected."


When the CSO announced a month ago that the February inflation
rate had jumped by another 137 points to a staggering 1,730
percent, it further undermined a prediction by then Finance
Minister Herbert Murerwa in December that the figure would fall
to around 300 percent by the end of the year.


Witness Chinyama, an economist with finance group Kingdom
Financial Holdings, said it was clear the government had once
again been unable to halt the inflation juggernaut with the cost
of living increasing by the day.


"One can speculate that the postponement may be due to figures
which could be higher than officials anticipated," said Chinyama.


"But it's obvious the figure will be higher following wholesale
price increases as businesses anticipated a wage freeze and the
rise in fuel prices."


After the announcement last month, Zambian President Levy
Mwanawasa remarked that his southern neighbour had "sunk into
such economic difficulties that it may be likened to a sinking
Titanic."


Even central bank governor Gideon Gono was moved to compare the
inflation rate -- now the highest in the world -- to the AIDS
pandemic.


"Inflation has ceased to be just the number one enemy. It is now
actually the economic HIV of this country," Gono said in remarks
carried by the state- controlled Herald newspaper.


When the rate reached four figures in May last year, the
announcement was also delayed for several days but Chinyama said
that fudging figures would not halt the mounting economic woes.


"It's like the HIV and AIDS problems and you need to publicise
the true figures and adopt measures to deal with the problem
rather than sweep things under the carpet and continue under the
impression that all is well," he said.


Murerwa had predicted that inflation would be reined in by a
marginal economic growth propelled by good weather, stabilising
of commodity prices, improved mineral deposits and increased
tourists arrivals.


But the International Monetary Fund director for Africa,
Abdoulaye Bio-Tchane, told South Africa's public broadcaster SABC
over the weekend that he expected the figure by the end of the
year could reach 5,000 percent.


Zimbabwe's econony has been on a downturn over the past seven
years characterised by world-record inflation along with four in
every five persons out of work and perennial shortages of
commodities like sugar, cooking oil and fuel.


Over 80 percent of the population is living below the poverty
threshold often skipping meals or cycling or walking long
distances to work in order to stretch their wages.


The government blames the economic crisis on targetted sanctions
imposed on veteran President Robert Mugabe and members of his
inner circle by the United States and the European Union
following presidential polls in 2002 which the opposition and
western observers charged were rigged.

