

An ultra-confident New Delhi believes it has done enough to
convince the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) that it should be the
2014 Asian Games host city, but then so does South Korea's
Incheon.


The two bidders for the lucrative multi-sport extravaganza
launched feverish last-minute canvassing Monday of OCA's 45
member nations ahead of the vote here on Tuesday.


China is shaping as a key player in who gets to hold an event
that will help create hundreds of thousands of jobs as well as
generate millions of dollars in income from broadcasting rights,
advertising and tourism.


Both Delhi and Incheon have claimed to have the backing of the
influential regional powerhouse, whose decision could affect the
way its special administrative regions Hong Kong and Macau place
their votes.


Indian officials told local media in February that Chinese
Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing had pledged the communist country's
support during a visit to Delhi as China works to build strategic
cooperation with its economic rival.


But two months is a long time in diplomatic terms and South
Korean officials said that Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao had told
them he favoured their bid during a recent trip to Seoul.


Indian Olympic Association president Suresh Kalmadi insisted that
New Delhi was the frontrunner and had a right to win as South
Korea held the 2002 Games in Busan.


India has been overlooked since it last played host in 1982.


"India will get the chance to host the event after 32 years when
it wins its bid tomorrow," a confident Kalmadi told reporters
here.


Another Indian official added: "We have the support of the
majority of nations who want the Games to be held in New Delhi."


Chairman of the Incheon bid Shin Yong-suk said the infrastructure
of the port city would work in its favour, and added that he
wanted to "make the Asian Games better than the Olympic Games."


"We have one of the best infrastructures in Korea because we have
the biggest airport in Asia," he told reporters.


"Along with the already existing infrastructure there are ongoing
projects, with a new city being built for the Games, so all in
all we can offer the Asian Games the best there is to offer."


Hosting an Asian Games is a monumental task and the bar was set
even higher by Doha in December which staged what was generally
considered the best Asiad to date.


Guangzhou in China hosts the 2010 Asian Games.

