

Rival Ivory Coast leaders on Monday started dismantling a buffer
zone that has divided the West African country for four years
since a failed coup sparked a civil war.


Arch-enemies turned partners-in-government, President Laurent
Gbagbo and Prime Minister Guillaume Soro presided over ceremonies
for the landmark event, enshrined in the country's UN-backed
peace process.


The so-called "confidence zone" has long been patrolled by UN
peacekeepers to separate Soro's rebels in the north of the
country and Gbagbo's government forces in the south.


The thousands of UN troops will be phased out gradually and
replaced by soldiers from a joint Ivorian army in a process
expected to last several weeks.


The United Nations marked out the 12,000 square kilometre (4,630
square-mile) swathe of land stretching from the east to the west
of the country in 2002, to end a brief civil war after a failed
coup attempt by Soro to topple Gbagbo.


Soro, who became prime minister under a power-sharing peace deal
sealed last month, led the rebellion by discontented soldiers
from the mainly Muslim north who complained of being marginalised
by Gbagbo's Christian-dominated government.


After several mediation attempts by former colonial ruler France,
the United Nations, the African Union and a west African regional
bloc failed, Gbagbo and Soro finalised their own peace deal on
March 4.


But doubts remain over the two men's commitment to power sharing.


"The context has changed but it's too early to be completely
affirmative and think that everything will go on smoothly," said
Gilles Yabi, a Dakar-based analyst with the International Crisis
Group.


Gbagbo has promised to fix a date soon for presidential and
legislative elections expected before year end, and in which Soro
has declared is not standing.


Soro and Gbagbo are to officially dismantle a checkpoint at
Tiebissou, 42 kilometres (26 miles) from the administrative
capital Yamoussoukro.


After that they will move to a village in the heart of the buffer
zone for the installation of the first joint patrol comprising
equal number of government and rebel forces, assisted by four UN
police officers.


Some 8,000 blue-helmet troops and 3,500 French forces have been
operating in the Ivory Coast under a recently renewed UN mandate
to run until June.


The former protagonists are to set up an integrated command
centre in Yamoussoukro to organise the re-unification of the
armed forces.


The end of the demilitarised zone will ease movement of people
and goods between the north and south of this former west African
economic powerhouse which produces of 40 percent of the world's
cocoa.

