

US consumers regained some of their legendary voracious appetite
for shopping last month as retail sales spiked by a more-than-
expected 0.7 percent, the government said Monday.


The Commerce Department's monthly snapshot on national retail
sales, a key driver of economic growth, defied most Wall Street
analysts who had only chalked up a 0.4 percent rise for March
sales.


"The consumer remains the jewel of the US economy," said Stephen
Gallagher, an economist at Societe Generale.


The sales surge was the strongest since December, when sales are
heavily bolstered by shoppers snapping up Christmas gifts.


The latest health report on the retail sector was welcomed by
Wall Street as it showed American consumers' flocked to shopping
malls last month despite high gasoline prices taking a bite out
of their wage packets.


Some economists have also fretted that the slump in the housing
market could dent Americans' enthusiasm for splurging on new
purchases.


Stripping out auto sales from the March report, retail sales
gained 0.8 percent, a shade better than most analysts had
forecast.


Upward revisions to February retail sales were also likely to
cheer investors as the government said it had revised February
retail sales up several notches to 0.5 percent.


Over the past 12 months, overall retail sales have climbed 3.8
percent or 3.9 percent excluding the auto sector.


The report comes after major retailers unveiled their latest
chain store sales for March last week, with several announcing
improved turnover and retail titan Wal-Mart unveiling better-
than-expected sales.


"The strength for March was tied to warm weather, an early Easter
and surging gasoline prices," Gallagher said, adding
"importantly, there is still no sign of spillover from weaker
housing markets to the consumer sector."


Breaking down the numbers, most sectors saw improved sales last
month.


Auto sales although decelerating from February, still grew 0.4
percent in March with sales of Japanese marques showing brisk
turnover as some big US nameplates, notably Chrysler, struggled
to maintain sales momentum.


Fuel sales at service stations during March surged 3.1 percent
after rising 1.5 percent in the prior month, while turnover at
the nation's restaurants rebounded a healthy 1.2 percent from a
0.6 percent decline previously.


Clothing store sales also rebounded a robust 2.4 percent after
falling by almost two percent in February as warmer temperatures
helped deplete sales racks.


Sales at electronics and appliance stores, however fell 1.9
percent last month after sliding 0.8 percent in the prior month.

