

A Taliban suicide bomber blew himself up among policemen doing
their morning exercises in normally peaceful northern Afghanistan
Monday, killing nine and wounding 25, officials said.


Separately NATO-led forces in Afghanistan said they had killed
several key Taliban leaders in airstrikes and raids in the
insurgency-hit southern province of Helmand.


The suicide attacker, who was on foot, struck outside a police
station in the northern city of Kunduz, the third suicide attack
in three days in Afghanistan, interior ministry spokesman Zemarai
Bashary said.


"Unfortunately nine policemen were martyred and 25 others were
wounded. The bombing coincided with the exercise time of the
policemen," Bashary told a news conference.


Kunduz provincial governor Mohammad Omer said the bomber, wearing
traditional Afghan dress, "came up and said a few words to the
policemen. Seconds later he exploded himself."


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi, calling AFP from an unknown
location, claimed responsibility for the attack. "It was carried
out by one of our devoted Afghans. They (police) suffered big
casualties," he said.


The Taliban, who were toppled by US-led forces in late 2001, have
launched about 30 suicide bombings this year, often targeting
Afghanistan's fledgling, foreign- backed police and army, as well
as international forces.


On Sunday, four Afghan employees of a US-owned private security
firm were killed by a motorcycle-riding suicide bomber near a
base housing thousands of international troops in southern
Kandahar city, police said.


Eight people, mostly police, were killed in a blast in the
eastern city of Khost on Saturday.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) on
Monday said it had killed several key Taliban leaders in a series
of airstrikes and raids in southern Afghanistan during the past
week.


The raids were part of a major ISAF offensive launched by some
5,000 Afghan and foreign troops in Helmand early last month, it
said.


"ISAF, in joint operations with Afghan forces, launched a series
of attacks and precision strikes against Taliban extremists in
Helmand this week resulting in the elimination of several key
extremist leaders," it said in a statement.


It gave no further details on the identities or ranks of the
Taliban leaders, or of the locations or dates of the attacks.


About 37,000 NATO-led troops and a separate force of nearly
12,000 US-led coalition soldiers are in Afghanistan to hunt down
the rebels, who are trying to topple the US-backed government in
Kabul.


The coalition also said it had captured eight insurgents early
Monday -- four in Helmand and four in Paktika province.


Meanwhile, gunmen shot dead a school headmaster in the
southeastern province of Khost as he returned home late Sunday,
police said, blaming "terrorists" for the attack.


An Afghan soldier was also killed and two were wounded in a
gunfight with Taliban militants in southwestern Ghazni province
on Sunday night, provincial police said.


About 1,000 people have died in the Afghan insurgency this year,
according to an AFP tally based on official reports.


Human Rights Watch said in a report published Monday that
civilian deaths from "war crimes" and other attacks by Taliban-
led insurgents have soared in the past 15 months.


At least 669 Afghan civilians had died since the start of 2006,
the report said.

