

Argentine David Nalbandian won his first clay match of the season
on Monday as he rallied past Italian Federico Luzzi 3-6, 6-2, 6-1
at the Monte Carlo Masters.


The ninth seed lost both of his round-robin contests in Buenos
Aires two months ago but kick-started his pre-French Open
campaign with the first-round victory over the 133rd-ranked
Luzzi.


Two competitors advanced easily as opponent retired, with former
Roland Garros champion Carlos Moya out and floundering Frenchman
Gael Monfils unable to continue with a knee problem.


Moya, finalist on the surface at Acapulco in February, was also
beaten in the first round here during the past two years. He
played the 2002 final against Spanish compatriot Juan Carlos
Ferrero.


Russian 13th seed Mikhail Youzhny accounted for the injured Moya,
leading 6-2, 3-1 when the Spaniard retired, while Czech Radek
Stepanek spent only 42 minutes on court against the inefficient
Monfils, holding a 6-2, 2-0 lead before the French youngster
packed it in.


Max Mirnyi of Belarus used his big serving game to great effect
as he knocked out former Australian Open finalist Marcos
Baghdatis, the 14th seed, 7-5, 6-4.


"I was winded in the first set, I wasn't used to conditions on
clay," said the winner. "It takes more form to be on top of my
game on clay.


"But I'm capable of causing some trouble for players. I felt
Marcos played pretty conservative. Once I got confidence from
winning the first set, I had to keep pushing forward and applying
the pressure, which he didn't like."


It was a mixed day for France, with Marc Gicquel defeating German
Florian Mayer 7-5, 5-7, 7-5. But Belgian Kristof Vliegen put out
Paul-Henri Mathieu in a straight forward 7-5, 6-3.


Mathieu said he was feeling unwell. "I've had flu since Sunday
and it hasn't got better," added the loser of the final rubber in
the Davis Cup to Russia last weekend.


"It wasn't easy for me after the Davis Cup. I really needed a
rest. Suddenly we're here on clay, I didn't have the best
preparation, I hope I can improve."

