

Madonna returned to Malawi on Monday for the first time since she
was granted custody of a one-year-old boy she wants to adopt amid
speculation she is on a quest to find him a little sister.


The 48-year-old singer and actress jetted into the airport on the
outskirts of the sleepy capital of Malawi, one of the poorest
countries in Africa and one of the worst hit by the AIDS
pandemic.


Clutching her young charge David, whom she is trying to make a
permanent part of her London-based family, the US pop diva made
no comment to reporters as she was whisked away to an exclusive
lodge amid tight security usually reserved for heads of state.


After sleeping off her jet-lag, she was expected to make her way
to the orphanage where young David had been living before the
singer, bowled over by his winning smile, plucked him from
poverty last October.


Managers of the "Home of Hope" have given the orphanage a
makeover in preparation for the honoured guests, painting
billboards and sprucing up the garden and the lawns.


While the full details of Madonna's itinerary have not been
revealed, her spokeswoman said she would be continuing the
charity work she started during a previous visit, denying she was
on the lookout for a little sister for David and her biological
children Rocco and Lourdes.


"She is overseeing the building of a children's healthcare
centre. She is absolutely not adopting another baby," said the
spokeswoman, Liz Rosenberg.


British newspaper The Sun quoted sources in Malawi as saying
Madonna had always wanted to adopt a boy and a girl, and that a
three-year-old named Grace at a separate orphanage had caught her
eye in a documentary about youngsters whose parents had died of
AIDS.


While in Malawi, Madonna would be filming scenes for a film about
saving Malawian orphans, called "Raising Malawi", in which she
was set to interview South Africa's former president Nelson
Mandela, the daily reported.


The manager of the orphanage where Grace was reported to be
living meanwhile denied any possibility that Madonna would adopt
from her establishment.


"We have no Grace here. We don't know how the rumour started, but
our daycare centres don't encourage adoption. We never allow any
of our children to be adopted," Yacinta Chapomba, founder of the
Consol Home, told AFP.


"Probably the rumour started about Grace because of our
partnership with Madonna after she funded the construction of
this centre."


Madonna's Malawian attorney Alan Chinula said he was in the dark
about any plans to adopt a Malawian girl.


"I have not been given any instructions. I don't know anything."


Madonna's bid to adopt David, which has still to receive the
final go-ahead, sparked heated debate in impoverished Malawi,
with rights groups accusing her of using her wealth and status to
ride roughshod over the country's custody laws.


David was expected to meet with his biological father during the
three-day visit at the Home of Hope.


"I will be very happy to meet my son after eight months as well
as Madonna because we only met once with her in court during the
adoption process," the father, Yohane Banda, told AFP at the
weekend.


Speaking by cellphone, 32-year-old Banda said he knew nothing
about the intended visit of the singer and a possible re-union
with David except what journalists had told him.


"I don't have any programme about her visit. No government
official nor the orphanage has come to see me, but I would still
be the most happiest person to see David and Madonna," he said.

