

Palestinian officials said on Monday there was still no
confirmation of a claim by an obscure Islamist group that it had
killed kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston in Gaza, as his
parents said they were desperately worried about him.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity),
claimed in a statement on Sunday to have killed the 44-year-old
reporter, whose whereabouts have remained unknown since he was
forced at gunpoint from his car in Gaza City five weeks ago.


But Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas said there
was no proof that the claim by the little-known group was true.


"We don't have any information that can confirm that authenticity
of the statement," Haniya said. "We are following this affair. We
are examining all avenues to confirm the authenticity of this
information, but for the moment it is not confirmed."


In London, the British Broadcasting Corporation said it remained
highly concerned for its correspondent's safety.


"The BBC has still had no independent verification of rumours
concerning Alan Johnston," it said in a statement.


"We continue to be highly concerned for his safety and are
working closely with the Palestinian and British authorities to
seek urgent clarification."


The Foreign Office also said that it was trying to obtain
independent verification of the claim.


No Westerner has so far been killed after being abducted in Gaza,
where hostages are generally used to lever concessions from the
authorities and are usually released unharmed within days of
their kidnapping.


Johnston's parents Graham and Margaret issued an emotional plea
for an end to their son's ordeal, saying it was "a desperately
worrying time for us."


"We make a heartfelt appeal to anyone who may have knowledge of
Alan's situation and well-being to contact the authorities in
Gaza," they said in a statement.


"Our son has lived and worked among the people of Gaza for the
last three years to bring their story to the outside world, and
we ask every one of them to help end this ordeal."


In Beirut, dozens of Lebanese and foreign journalists staged the
latest protest in solidarity with Johnston, carrying pictures of
him outside the Lebanese press syndicate headquarters.


"We call on those who are holding him to release him
immediately," said BBC reporter in Beirut Nada Abdel Samad.


"Our colleague continued to work professionally despite being
aware of the dangers" of covering news in the increasingly
lawless Palestinian territory, she added.


Johnston, one of the few Western journalists to both live and
work in Gaza, was abducted at gunpoint on March 12 as he drove
home from work, just weeks before his three-year posting was due
to end.


Before Sunday's statement, sent to news outlets in the Middle
East, no group had claimed responsibility for the kidnapping and
nothing had been heard of Johnston's whereabouts.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed -- which has the same name as a group
set up by Al- Qaeda in Iraq, although it is not clear if the two
are linked -- said it had killed the reporter to put pressure on
the Palestinian authorities.


The BBC said on Sunday it was "deeply concerned" at the
development, but added that there had been no independent
verification that Johnston was dead.


A month after his abduction, the BBC staged a day of action to
step up calls for his release.


BBC director-general Mark Thompson said Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas had told him he had "credible evidence" Johnston was
safe and well, and that the authorities were "fully engaged" in
the case and working to resolve it.


Thousands of people around the world have signed an online
petition calling for Johnston's release, with hundreds also
posting messages of support on the BBC News website.


Palestinian journalists have also organised a series of strikes
and rallies to protest against his abduction.


Johnston, who has been with the BBC for 16 years and has also
reported from Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, is one of a number of
Western journalists and aid workers to have been kidnapped in
Gaza in recent years.

