

Pro-Kremlin newspapers voiced anger Monday at weekend anti-
Kremlin demonstrations that were violently dispersed, one of them
blaming exiled businessman Boris Berezovsky.


Independent newspapers however took a different line on the
demonstrations in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, at which hundreds
of people were detained by police, among them organizer and
former chess champion Gary Kasparov.


The mass circulation Izvestia said opposition movement The Other
Russia had "responded to the call from London," referring to
calls by the exiled Kremlin foe Berezovsky for the violent
overthrow of President Vladimir Putin.


The government daily Rossiyskaya Gazeta said violence during
Saturday's protests in Moscow was the fault of protesters, who
had not gained official permission to march, rather than police.


"Everything that the Moscow authorities could have done to avoid
the clashes between the activists was done, but they were unable
to avoid unrest," the newspaper said.


A top official with the pro-Putin United Russia party, Lyubov
Sliska, said the protests in Moscow and Saint Petersburg were a
cynical power play by "political racketeers."


"I'm against the opposition acting through the youth, who are
paid to take part," she told the Kommersant daily.


Kommersant however also voiced criticism of the heavy-handed
police response to the protests.


"It's as impossible to rid yourself of unsystematic opposition as
it is of your own shadow," the paper quoted political analyst
Dmitry Oreshkin as saying. "The authorities are prolonging this
opposition through their own actions."


Opposition leader Boris Nemtsov told Kommersant that
international media coverage of riot police beating and arresting
unarmed protesters had caused damage to the Russian government's
image.


"The Kremlin has now got a reputation problem as acute as that of
Alexander Lukashenko," Nemtsov said, referring to the Belarussian
leader dubbed "Europe's last dictator" in some capitals.


The independent Gazeta daily said "rather than allowing the
opposition to undertake a large unsanctioned event, the
authorities transformed the centre of the Russian capital into a
training ground for paramilitary exercises."

