

French intelligence warned their American counterparts, eight
months before the September 11, 2001 attacks, that Al-Qaeda
planned to hijack a US-bound plane, according to documents seen
by AFP.


Details of the plot by Osama bin Laden's group was passed to the
Central Intelligence Agency's Paris bureau chief eight months
before the attacks on New York and Washington, Le Monde newspaper
reported in its account on the report.


The plan was to hijack a US-bound plane flying from Frankfurt in
Germany and take it to Kandahar in Afghanistan, according to the
file by the DGSE external intelligence service.


The presumed chief September 11 hijacker, Mohammed Atta, ran an
Al-Qaeda cell in the German city of Hamburg.


The plot was allegedly drawn up by Al-Qaeda with the Taliban
militia in Afghanistan and Chechen rebels.


But there was no discussion of flying the plane to the United
States to smash it into a building there, which is what Al-Qaeda
hijackers did when they seized four planes in September 2001 in
attacks that left 3,000 people dead.


The DGSE document says that by October 2000 bin Laden had decided
his next action against the United States would involve a
hijacking, but that at this time there was still disagreement
among Al-Qaeda leaders over the exact details of the attack.


Al-Qaeda had in 1988 carried out simultaneous bomb attacks on the
US embassies Tanzania and Kenya that left hundreds dead.


A 2004 report on the September 11 attacks by the US Congress
highlighted failures by US intelligence services to gather and
share information that might have helped prevent the attacks.


The DGSE declined to comment on the 2001 when contacted by AFP.


The file, titled "Aircaft hijack plan by radical Islamists," was
part of 328 pages of a DGSE file on Al-Qaeda leaked to the paper
which it said was practically all of the French intelligence
dossier on the network for the period between July 2000 and
October 2001.


The DGSE document said the plotters, who began working on the
hijack plan in 2000, considered seven airlines, including
American and United Airlines, which had planes hijacked on
September 11.


Le Monde on Monday published a lengthy article on the affair,
written by Guillaume Dasquie, the author of two books on Al-
Qaeda, who acquired the documents from DGSE sources.


The 328-page Al-Qaeda dossier consisted of notes, maps, graphics,
and satellite photos gathered between July 2000 and October 2001.


The documents reveal that the DGSE had in 1995 set up a cell to
watch bin Laden and already had considerable knowledge of the
organisation and Al-Qaeda's financing.

