

The run of good news for the German economy, the biggest in
Europe, looks set to continue for some time, with Bundesbank
President Axel Weber arguing on Monday that current growth marks
only the beginning of a longer upturn.


The BDI industry federation also upgraded its growth forecast for
the current year to 2.5 percent from 2.0 percent previously, even
if federation chief Juergen Thumann warned the government not to
become complacent.


The prospect of faster growth in Germany is likely to strengthen
the European Central Bank's arguments for further monetary
tightening in the entire 13-country eurozone, analysts said.


In an interview published in the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung on Monday, Bundesbank chief Weber said the recent slew of
favourable economic news coming from Germany was only the
beginning, hinting that the central bank might upgrade its growth
forecast for the current year.


"The entry into the first quarter was very favourable, so there
is a possibility that we will upgrade our forecast," said Weber,
who as head of the German central bank sits on the ECB's policy-
setting governing council.


BDI chief Thumann told a news conference in Hanover said the
current robust growth would make itself felt on the labour market
where unemployment could feasibly fall below 3.5 million.


But the government must not rest on its laurels, Thumann said,
urging the ruling left-right coalition to press ahead with
decisive structural reforms.


"With the global economy set to expand by 5.0 percent, 2.5
percent growth for Germany is not much," Thumann said. "A lot
remains to be done."


Later this week, Germany's leading economic institutes also look
set to raise their own growth forecasts, too.


Faster growth coupled with accelerating inflation will provide
additional ammunition for the ECB to raise eurozone borrowing
costs -- already at a five- and-a-year high -- again later this
year to prevent the economy from over- heating.


ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet sent clear signals last week that,
with the current upturn set to continue, the guardian of the euro
will notch up its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate to 4.0
percent in June.


So far, the Bundesbank has been pencilling in German gross
domestic product (GDP) growth of around 1.75 percent for 2007 and
2.0 percent for 2008.


The government, too, is becoming increasingly optimistic, with
Economy Minister Michael Glos suggesting recently that Berlin
might raise its 2007 growth forecast from 1.7 percent to at least
2.0 percent.


"There are some indications that Germany is still only at the
beginning of an upturn that looks set to continue in the coming
years," Weber said.


The eurozone's biggest economy was in a traditional cyclical
upturn, with the strong export performance of past years now
feeding through to investment, the central bank chief said.


"At the end of last year, companies said they were investing to
increase capacity," he said.


And private consumption could similarly start contributing to
growth from the middle of the year, as well, Weber continued.


That should be the case once the so-called VAT effect had faded,
he argued, referring to a three-percentage-point increase in
value-added or sales tax (VAT), which came into effect at the
start of this year and which persuaded consumers to bring forward
big-ticket purchases to the end of 2006.


Recent rises in oil prices had been almost wholly offset by the
rise in the value of the euro against the dollar, limiting the
negative economic effects, Weber said.


And the economic slowdown in the United States would not harm
German exports, too much, given the growing importance of dynamic
economies such as China and Arab states, he argued.


In their widely watched spring report, to be published on
Thursday, the country's leading economic research institutes are
widely expected to raise their forecasts for German growth this
year and next year.


Newspaper reports have said that five of the six think-tanks --
Ifo in Munich, DIW in Berlin, HWWA in Hamburg, IfW in Kiel, IWH
in Halle and RWI in Essen -- were pencilling 2.5-percent growth
for the German economy both in 2007 and 2008.


In their report last autumn, the institutes had forecast growth
of 1.4 percent for 2007.

