

Civilian deaths from "war crimes" and other attacks by Taliban-
led insurgents have soared in the past 15 months, global watchdog
Human Rights Watch said in a report Monday.


The New York-based group condemned a wave of suicide bombings and
other assaults by the Taliban and associated Islamist groups that
it said had killed nearly 700 Afghan civilians since the
beginning of 2006.


"The insurgents are increasingly committing war crimes, often by
directly targeting civilians," HRW terrorism and counter-
terrorism director Joanne Mariner said in the report, titled "The
Human Cost".


"Even when they're aiming at military targets, insurgent attacks
are often so indiscriminate that Afghan civilians end up as the
main victims," Mariner said.


Mariner said 2006 was the deadliest year for Afghan civilians
since the 2001 toppling of the Taliban in a US-led invasion, with
at least 669 civilians dying in more than 350 documented armed
attacks.


Most of these "appear to have been intentionally launched at
civilians or civilian objects."


Another 52 civilians were killed in insurgent attacks in the
first two months of 2007, the report said.


The 116-page report was based on dozens of interviews with
civilian victims of attacks and their families and a review of
available documents and records, the group said.


The report said the Taliban had stepped up targeted attacks
against groups such as doctors, journalists, aid workers,
religious leaders and government employees, often after falsely
accusing them of spying.


At least 177 civilians were killed in such assassinations last
year, it said.


"A recent and horrific example was the Taliban's summary
execution of Afghan journalist Ajmal Naqshbandi and his driver,
Sayed Agha, in violation of the laws of war," the report said.


Naqshbandi and Agha were abducted along with Italian journalist
Daniele Mastrogiacomo in March. The Italian was freed in exchange
for the release of five Taliban prisoners, but the two Afghans
were beheaded.


The report goes on to say that insurgents regularly attacked
military targets in densely-populated areas.


"Many Afghans told Human Rights Watch they could not understand
why insurgent forces would choose to carry out attacks in
civilian areas," it said.


However HRW also pointed to civilian casualties caused by foreign
and Afghan security forces, saying 230 civilians were killed in
US-led coalition or NATO operations in 2006, "some of which
appear to have violated the laws of war."


"There is no evidence that coalition forces intentionally target
civilians, but in a number of cases international forces have
conducted indiscriminate attacks or failed to take adequate
precautions to prevent harm to civilians," it said.


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force has about
37,000 troops in Afghanistan, while the US-led coalition has some
12,000 soldiers.


In the latest rebel attack a Taliban suicide bomber killed nine
policemen as they did their morning exercises outside a police
station in in the northeastern city of Kunduz on Monday.

