

Sirens wailed across Israel on Monday, bringing traffic and
pedestrians to a halt, as the Jewish state marked Holocaust
Remembrance Day.


As the sirens sounded at 0700 GMT for two minutes, cars braked in
the streets and pedestrians stopped on the sidewalks to remember
the six million Jews who were killed by the Nazis during World
War II.


Motorists stood besides their cars while an elderly couple in
Jerusalem stood with heads bowed in the middle of the crosswalk.
A khaki-clad soldier, his automatic rifle slung over his
shoulder, stood at attention.


Radio played melancholic Israeli folk music throughout the day
and entertainment venues were closed.


The Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem was to host the
annual ceremony marking the genocide, following one after sunset
on Sunday when the Jewish state began to mark the annual day with
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert warning against those who "had
not yet learned the lesson the Holocaust."


Yossef Lapid, president of Yad Vashem board of directors and a
former justice minister, appealed for awareness on the killings
in Sudan's Darfur region.


"Even after the Holocaust we witnessed genocide in Biafra,
Cambodia, Rwanda, and we must cry out against the genocide
currently being committed in Darfur in Sudan," Lapid said.


"The world rests with its arms crossed, sending a few sacks of
flour there, not to feed the starving, but to ease its
conscience," he said.


In parliament, lawmakers recited the names of some of those
killed.


Lapid also lashed out at Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad,
who has branded the systematic killing of Jews during World War
II a "myth" and has called for the Jewish state to be wiped off
the map.


"For the Iranian president, the six million exterminated Jews
during the Holocaust weren't enough. He is convinced that in
Israel there are six million Jews too many," he said.


Yad Vashem said that thousands of Internet surfers from Iran have
visited its new Farsi-language website that the museum launched
in January.


"We believe that making credible, comprehensive information about
the Holocaust available to Persian speakers can contribute to the
fight against Holocaust denial," said Yad Vashem chairman Avner
Shalev.


In Poland on Monday, hundreds of Israelis, many of them
teenagers, were due to take part in the so-called March of the
Living at the Auschwitz-Birkenau Nazi German death camp where
some 1.1 million people, mostly Jews, were killed during the war.


Representing the Israeli government during the march will be Rafi
Eitan, a minister and former Mossad agent who in 1960 helped to
capture Nazi fugitive Adolf Eichmann, considered to be one of the
main architects of the campaign to exterminate the Jews.


The annual march winds from the brick barracks of Auschwitz to
the killing fields of Birkenau.

