

Nigeria's ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday held
an early lead in 20 out of the 26 states where results for the
governorship elections have been announced.


The PDP, which has controlled 28 of the country's 36 states since
May 1999, is expected to win the majority of the remaining 10
states.


Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) spokesman Philip
Umeadi told reporters results from nine states were yet to be
released while the vote in the southeastern state of Imo had been
cancelled because of irregularities.


He said a fresh poll would take place in Imo on April 28, a week
after the presidential and national assembly elections to be held
Saturday.


He said so far the results showed that the opposition All Nigeria
People's Party (ANPP) won four states, Action Congress (AC) one
state -- the economic capital Lagos -- while the Progressive
Party Alliance (PPA) also won one state.


The governorship of Lagos State, the country's economic nerve
center, was won by AC candidate Babatunde Fashola, in a blow for
the ruling PDP.


The PDP had said that winning Lagos, in the hands of the AC for
the past eight years, was very important for the party.


Tensions have risen over irregularities during last Saturday's
polls, described as "worrisome" by the European Union observer
mission.


But an observer team from the west African bloc ECOWAS said the
state elections were "relatively free and peaceful."


"The majority of voters were able to cast their ballots in a
tranquil and orderly manner," head of the mission from the
Economic Community of West African States, former Gambian
president Dauda Jawara, was quoted as saying by the News Agency
of Nigeria (NAN).


He said the governorship and state assembly elections were an
improvement on the 2003 vote in Africa's most populous nation.


Jawara noted however that voting did not start on time in many
centres and that the security of electoral materials was
"compromised"' as they were transported with few or no escorts.


He said many polling stations were located in unsuitable and
obscure locations, which made it difficult to ensure secret
ballots.


He added that the collapsible plastic boxes, which were without
seals and had only zips, were susceptible to abuse and vandalism.


The regional vote is seen as a litmus test for the success of
next Saturday's elections, expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to-civilian political transition since the former
British colony gained independence in 1960.


In the April 21 presidential election Nigerians will choose a
successor to President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is ending his
second four-year term.


Obasanjo has already annointed Katsina state goveror Umar
Yar'Adua as his favourite for the top job.


Police chief Sunday Ehindero said at least 21 people were killed
across the west African country during last weekend's vote,
raising fears that the presidential poll may also be marked by
violent incidents.

