

A conclave of global executive search firms Monday said India's
booming services and software industries need more than two
million professionals by 2010 and many could come from overseas.


Tom Fuller, managing director of the US-based Espen Fuller
consultancy firm, said India's outsourcing industry needed 1.4
million professionals alone, while its burgeoning information
technology sector would need an additional 800,000 skilled
workers in the next three years.


"A growing number of global managers are attracted by exciting
professional opportunities being presented by India," Fuller told
heads of international consultancy firms attending an annual
convention in this Arabian Sea resort.


India's outsourcing industry could process 30 percent of US bank
transactions by 2010, more than triple the current figure, says
the industry's main lobby group National Association of Software
and Services Companies.


Foreign financial institutions and firms have been moving back
office, call centre and other software-related work to India to
take advantage of its English-speaking, lower-paid employees and
cut costs.


India's business process outsourcing sector, which includes
customer call centres and services such as accounting and payroll
management, has created about 100,000 jobs in the past two years
alone, more than doubling the industry's total workforce to over
170,000.


The meeting, which ended Monday in the Goa capital of Panaji,
also said India had become a paradise for professional head-
hunters.


"India is becoming the most attractive destination to scout for
young talent," said Sherlin Shakel, managing partner of Britain's
Highfield consultancy firm.


"And Indian business schools are meeting the global requirements
by producing managers who are most sought after worldwide,"
Shakel told reporters.


Economists also say India will soon represent two-thirds of the
international "offshore market" -- jobs done outside a client's
region.


Peter Mukherjea, head of the India-based INX Global Executive
search firm, said India would also need more top executives than
it currently had to spur economic growth beyond the current nine
percent.


"India would need over 1,000 chief executive officers across
industries, many of them in new sectors such as special economic
zones, aviation, airport management and retail," he said on the
sidelines of the conclave.


The convention included representatives from companies from 27
countries including Australia, Britain, France, Germany, India,
Italy, Singapore, Spain and the United States, organisers said.

