

Amnesty International on Monday urged the United States and
Europe to avert a looming humanitarian crisis as Iraqi refugees
flood Syria and Jordan which can barely cope with influx.


On the eve of a global refugee conference in Geneva, the London-
based human rights group said the conflict in Iraq had caused 1.5
million Iraqis to become internally displaced and forced two
million others to flee the country.


Amnesty said the crisis has worsened since the February 2006
attack by insurgents on the Shiite Muslim Samarra mosque, which
fuelled sectarian bloodletting.


"Syria and Jordan have borne the brunt of the refugee exodus so
far" by receiving together two million Iraqis, Malcolm Smart,
director of Amnesty International's Middle East and North African
Programme.


"But there must be a limit to which they can continue to do so in
the face of the continuing surge by Iraqis desperate to escape
the conflict," he said in a statement.


"It is vital that other governments now step in and deliver --
not just pledge -- direct assistance in order to ensure that the
refugees are adequately housed and fed, and have access to health
care and education, in Syria, Jordan and the other countries
which are now helping bear the consequences of the disaster in
Iraq."


Amnesty urged donors to give direct aid to Iraqi refugees and the
countries hosting them.


But it also called on the United States, European Union and other
states to establish resettlement programmes to help Iraqi
refugees "to start new lives well away from the conflict zone"
and protect refugees and asylum seekers.


"The UK government and others which persist in returning failed
asylum seekers to Iraq, arguing that the Kurdish north is
relatively peaceful, should desist from this practice forthwith,"
Smart said.


"Iraqis' lives should not be put at risk in order for governments
to demonstrate to a domestic audience that they can be tough on
asylum seekers -- this is just playing with other people's
lives."


Amnesty also called for action to help the hundreds of thousands
of Iraqis who have become internally displaced.


He said the Iraqi government, states contributing troops to the
Multinational Force, and other governments in the region must
increase efforts for a political solution, allowing Iraqis to
return to their homes by ending the violence.


The appeal comes ahead of conference convened by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva on
Tuesday and Wednesday.

