

The Socialist candidate Segolene Royal on Monday headed into the
last week of campaigning for France's presidential election,
battling to secure a place in the expected run-off against the
right-wing favourite Nicolas Sarkozy.


With at least a third of the electorate still undecided ahead of
Sunday's first round vote, the final stretch of rallies and
debates was to play a crucial role in anchoring swing voters.


Opinion polls put Royal, 53, in second place behind Sarkozy, 52,
but the Socialist, due Monday in the western city of Nantes,
faces a tough rearguard challenge from the centrist candidate
Francois Bayrou.


Surveys suggest that the 55-year-old Bayrou -- unlike Royal --
stands a good chance of beating the right-wing former interior
minister if he makes it to the run-off vote on May 6, boosting
his appeal on the left.


"For left-wing voters, the priority is to defeat Sarkozy," said
Roland Cayrol, director of the CSA polling institute. "Their
problem is finding the most effective vote to do so."


"The centre-left is the priority target in this final phase of
the campaign, because it can make the difference," said Cayrol,
who believes that "everything is still possible" in Sunday's
vote.


Sarkozy's opponents accuse him of veering to the far-right to
poach voters from National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, and
they say he is a divisive character with no chance of securing
the unity needed to reform the country.


Bayrou Monday repeated the accusation that Sarkozy was "dragging
the republican camp towards words, phrases and acts that belong
to the far-right," saying it was "easy to pull a people downwards
into feelings of confrontation, hate, base instincts."


Over the weekend Royal was forced to slap down calls from three
senior figures in her own camp for an electoral alliance between
the Socialist Party (PS) and Bayrou's Union for French Democracy
(UDF).


Speaking late Sunday in the western city of Rennes, Royal said
she had "nothing to negotiate, no deal to strike" with either of
the candidates of the right.


"I intend to remain free, as I have been since the start of the
campaign," she said.


Bayrou has positioned himself as a candidate who rejects the
left-right divide, but since its creation in 1978 his party has
been in almost permanent alliance with the right.


Royal called on "the left, but also all republicans in search of
justice and social peace to mobilise behind my candidacy in the
first round, so that this election is not wasted, as in 2002."


Five years ago, Le Pen -- who currently polls fourth in the race
-- beat the Socialist candidate into the run-off against Jacques
Chirac, and commentators warn that the Socialist Party would not
survive a second eviction from the race.


"There are fears the old (left-wing) alliance, which still
represents roughly half of the country, will be kept out of the
second round once again -- and wiped off the national map in the
process," wrote the newspaper Liberation.


Socialist leader Francois Hollande has urged all left-wingers
tempted by the hard-left or centre to cast a "useful vote" in
Royal's favour, warning her place in the second round was not
guaranteed.


Analysts said that Royal needs to maintain her left-wing
credentials ahead of the first round in order to stop votes
leaking to far-left candidates. But she has to keep a door open
to Bayrou in the hope of an endorsement from his camp if she
qualifies for round two.


The centrist -- who initially welcomed the suggestion of an
alliance by Socialist elder statesman Michel Rocard as a sign
"things were moving" -- on Monday also ruled out any deal with
Royal before the first round.


"It is inconceivable for there to be an alliance in a
presidential election before the vote has taken place," Bayrou
told France Inter radio, refusing to say if he would back Royal
in a run-off.


France is choosing a successor to the 74-year-old Chirac, in an
election widely seen as the most exciting and important in a
quarter of a century.


Twelve candidates are in the running, including three
Trotskyites, a Communist, a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner
Jose Bove, a hunters' rights campaigner and a Catholic
nationalist.

