

Protesters thronging the streets and politicians deadlocked in
the corridors of power: while some see chaos in Ukraine, others
see the painful birth of a democratic culture in the ex-Soviet
state.


No clear solution is in sight in the political crisis triggered
when President Viktor Yushchenko announced on April 2 that he was
dissolving parliament and calling early elections. In response,
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych vowed to resist the order and
stay in office.


As the constitutional court hesitates about ruling on the issue,
Ukraine, whose 2004 pro-West Orange Revolution marked a break
with its authoritarian past, faces being ruled by two rival power
centres.


On the one side is the pro-Western president, eager to secure
membership of the NATO military alliance, and on the other the
Russia-leaning prime minister, who commands a majority in
parliament.


Such uncertainty can be seen across much of formerly Communist-
ruled eastern Europe, which has nonetheless enjoyed strong growth
in recent years. The Czech Republic weathered a seven-month
vacuum last year as politicians struggled to form a government.


Optimists point out that while there have been large street
protests by both sides in Ukraine, the dispute has not turned
violent and economic growth does not seem to be hampered.


When it comes to Ukraine "the crises that shake the country are
hazards of the democratic process," said analyst Andriy Ermolayev
of the Ukrainian research centre Sofia.


"All attempts to monopolise power provoke a counter-reaction," he
said.


Forming the backdrop to the crisis are sharp differences between
the east and west of this country that stretches to the Don river
basin in the east and the Polish border in the west and also
includes the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea.


The west is mainly Ukrainian-speaking and looks to European Union
countries such as Poland for inspiration while the more
industrial east retains close ties to neighbouring Russia.


With such disparate forces dividing the country, any attempt to
reconstitute an authoritarian system of top-down government is
sure to be doomed, says Moscow- based analyst Fyodor Lukyanov,
editor of the journal Russia in Global Affairs, contrasting
Ukraine with President Vladimir Putin's Russia.


"It is impossible to build a vertical structure of power... like
that created by Vladimir Putin," said Lukyanov.


Ermolayev says that the differences between the two sides are
reflected in rival groupings of powerful businessmen, a rivalry
that encourages political competition and media freedom.


The latest crisis mushroomed when Yanukovych's parliamentary
forces tried to lure members of parliament from the pro-Western
camp over to their side, efforts that some critics said involved
the offering of financial inducements.


If the pro-Russian camp in parliament obtained a two-thirds
majority it could overturn presidential vetoes.


The president's decision to dissolve parliament was "the red
card" for Yanukovych's Regions Party, a message that "you cannot
monopolize power," a close associate of Yushchenko told foreign
journalists.


He elaborated: "A democrat is not afraid to be weak. This is the
Yushchenko phenomenon."


But sceptics charge that such "weakness" could be a double-edged
sword.


With Ukrainians weary of constant crises, the situation could
create fertile ground for the authoritarian style of Yanukovych
and Yushchenko's Orange Revolution ally Yulia Tymoshenko, said
analyst Volodymyr Fesenko of the Penta research centre.


"This society wants a strong leader. It is a post-Soviet syndrome
and a reaction against Yushchenko," he said.


The constitutional court was due to meet on Tuesday to rule on
the current crisis, after hearings were deferred last week.

