

Nepal's Maoists demanded Monday that the country immediately
scrap the monarchy and declare itself a republic amid probable
delays in an election over the issue.


"We have to find a new political basis in order to move forward.
That basis is declaring the country a republic immediately,"
Maoist leader Prachanda told reporters.


The Himalayan kingdom is scheduled in June to elect a body that
will rewrite the constitution and decide whether sidelined King
Gyanendra and the monarchy as a whole should stay or go.


But last week Nepal's election commissioner, Bhojraj Pokharel,
said the peace process that has brought the Maoists into
government after 10 years of insurgency was moving so slowly that
the elections would have to be postponed.


The eight-party alliance government, which contains five Maoists
ministers, has not formally announced the delay in the polls.


But Prachanda -- whose nom de guerre means "the fierce one" --
argued that any delay would give room for King Gyanendra and his
supporters to destabilise the country and undermine the peace
process.


The Maoists accuse the king, who has already been striped of most
of his powers, of provoking ethnic violence in a bid to hang on
to his throne.


"The longer the delay the more it will space to feudalistic and
reactionary forces for creating a negative environment. Such
forces have been conspiring to sabotage and derail the peace
process," Prachanda told a news conference.


"If this republic is not declared immediately, we have some other
options -- which include a referendum and appealing to the
population to protest against the feudal set up," he said.


The Maoists signed a peace deal in November 2006 after fighting
for 10 years to impose a communist republic on the Hindu-majority
country in a war that left at least 13,000 people dead.


The former rebels, who still feature on Washington's list of
foreign "terrorist" organisations, have registered their weapons
and fighters with the United Nations as part of the accord.

