

Baton-wielding students from a radical mosque in the Pakistani
capital took to the streets Monday after alleging that the
government had sprayed them with irritant gases from a
helicopter.


Young men from a school attached to the Lal Masjid, or Red
Mosque, blocked nearby roads, and their female counterparts
shouted slogans from the roof after a chopper circled low
overhead for around 15 minutes, witnesses said.


Chief cleric Abdul Aziz, who earlier this month threatened to
launch suicide attacks if Pakistani security forces raid the
mosque, said the helicopter was part of a "mock operation" by the
government.


"An army helicopter performed a low-level flight over the mosque
for more than 15 minutes and discharged gases, which caused
suffocation and irritation in the eyes of everyone present in the
premises," Aziz told AFP.


His deputy and younger brother, Abdul Rashid Ghazi, said that a
"white substance" was released by the helicopter but did not say
what the substance was.


Local officials dismissed the allegation.


"There is nothing going on and whatever the mosque administration
said is a figment of their imagination," a district official said
on condition of anonymity.


The government of military ruler President Pervez Musharraf has
been in negotiations with the mosque's leaders despite public
pressure to tackle what has been described as "Talibanisation" in
the heart of the capital.


Earlier this month the mosque set up a self-styled Islamic court,
which promptly issued a "fatwa" against the female tourism
minister for hugging a French paragliding instructor after a
charity jump.


Male and female students from schools attached to the mosque have
launched anti- vice patrols targeting local music and video
shops, as well as briefly kidnapping two policemen and three
women including an alleged brothel owner.


They have also refused to vacate a government children's library
that they occupied in January in protest at the demolition of
several mosques that authorities said were built on illegally
occupied land.

