

The 12 candidates jockeying for position in France's feverish
presidential election agree that the economy is malfunctioning,
unemployment is far too high, and wages too low. But their
solutions range from renationalising industry to free-market
reform.


Nicolas Sarkozy, the rightwing frontrunner in the opinion polls,
has focused on restoring the value of hard work, liberalising the
labour market, and reducing unemployment which at its current
rate of 8.4 percent is among the highest in Europe


The leader of the ruling UMP party has attacked the 35-hour
working week, which was brought in by a Socialist government, but
has not gone as far as calling for its abolition.


He would boost consumer spending by reducing social charges and
taxes on employee paychecks by four percentage points over 10
years, and has vowed to bring unemployment down to below five
percent.


He is also controversially proposing to introduce a single work
contract to ease France's labyrinthine labour laws if elected
after the two rounds of voting that begin on Sunday.


Segolene Royal, the Socialist trailing just behind Sarkozy in the
polls, has vowed to help the French learn to love business and
wants to improve industrial relations by encouraging more workers
to join trade unions.


She has said she would re-examine the 35-hour week but has also
unveiled a largely left-wing platform that would punish firms
that moved jobs abroad. And she has promised to raise government
spending while at the same time upping the minimum wage by 300
euros.


Royal also promised to renationalise the former electricity and
gas monopolies, EDF and GDF.


The centrist Francois Bayrou, third in the polls, plans to let
companies hire two extra employees free of social security
charges for the first five years.


He has also suggested that the state should provide leaner,
smarter public services.


The proposals of the five far-left presidential candidates agree
that employment must be both protected and created, with some of
their methods including nationalising key industries.


But many economists remain sceptical about the ability of any of
the 12 candidates to see through a major reform programme given
trade union power and the influence of massive street protests in
French politics.


Most of the 12 presidential candidates have been attacking the
European Central Bank and the European Union, blaming the bank
for a tight monetary policy and the EU for excessively liberal
trade regime.


None likes to talk about the positive side of globalisation,
which has helped make France one of the richest countries in the
world.


Laurence Parisot, the head of the Medef employers' federation, in
an interview published Monday in Les Echos business daily,
lamented that no candidate would say that "(economic) liberalism
was a factor of social progress."


Although the French economy is riding the wave of a broader
European economic upswing, its growth trailed its European
partners last year, rising only 2.1 percent compared with 2.6
percent for both Germany and the 13-nation eurozone.


The country reduced its budget overspending to 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product last year and brought its public debt down
to 63.9 percent of GDP, according to the latest official figures.


A country's public deficit is the difference between state
revenues and public spending. The public debt is the cumulation
of past annual spending deficits.

