

Former professional Scott Sunderland put his laid-back nature to
one side Sunday to help engineer an historic first victory for
Australia in one of sport's toughest one-day events.


Stuart O'Grady, the Olympic madison champion who has spent most
of his career chasing stages in the Tour de France and the race's
green jersey, claimed his first big win from the prestigious
spring classic with a gutsy performance which took Australian
cycling stock to a new high.


It was Australia's first victory in the 'Hell of the North', and
first from any of the five one-day classics which also include
Milan-San Remo, the Tour of Flanders, Liege-Bastogne-Liege and
the Tour of Lombardy.


With plenty of potential mishaps on the tight, uneven roads from
northern Paris to the French-Belgian border, Paris-Roubaix and
it's 53km of cobbles is considered the hardest of them all.


Preparations are crucial, and Sunderland - planned his day with
military precision as 30 degrees celsius temperatures, the
hottest on the race since 1949, threatened to cause havoc.


Team leaders normally rely on 'domestiques' who drop back to the
team car, load up with water bottles like mules and then race
ahead to distribute supplies.


In Paris-Roubaix, especially with the dust clouds which gather as
riders and team cars rattle over the cobbles, that perfectly
normal race practice becomes impossible.


Sunderland, however, used hindsigtht - and a little help from his
friends.


"We had 20 guys, friends of mine coming to help us giving out
bidons (water bottles) at some of the (cobblestone) sections,"
said Sunderland, who played a role in Magnus Backstedt's victory
when the Swede won at Roubaix in 2004.


"It's been such a big group effort just to make this possible for
the team and for Stuart. It's just been fantasctic."


Attention to detail is something Sunderland has become known for
since joining CSC, who have now won the race two years in a row
thanks to Fabian Cancellara's win last year - also engineered by
Sunderland.


While O'Grady was at the front most of the day, it was only when
he saw a thirsty Cancellara begin to struggle that his victory
chances took shape.


"Every part of his (Cancellara's) shirt that was supposed to be
black was white with salt. We just couldn't get enough water to
him," said Sunderland.


With only 30km to race and Belgian favourite Tom Boonen still a
minute behind O'Grady's leading group, the 33-year-old Aussie
attacked breakaway companions Juan Antonio Flecha and Stefen
Wesemann of Switzlerand.


A steady acceleration led to a 25-sec growing to a more promising
50secs and while Flecha tried to follow later O'Grady hit full
throttle to secure a solo victory in the famous Roubaix velodrome
with nearly a minute to spare.


"I first heard about Roubaix in 1983, and I was just mesmerized
about it," said O'Grady after achieveing one of his lifelong
dreams.


Phil Anderson, the pioneering Australian whose exploits showed
O'Grady's generation that competing in Europe was possible,
secured an impressive number of runner-up places in the Tour of
Flanders and Liege-Bastogne-Liege.


O'Grady has in the past made the podium in Flanders and Milan-San
Remo, but for Sunderland taming the cobblestones of 'Hell' has
put Australian cycling right back on the world map.


"It's massive. This is the Queen of the classics," he told AFP.


"Sprinting and winning stages and green jerseys is all good, but
you've seen what it's like out there. It is Hell. That's what
they call it.


"It's the biggest win in Australian history. Next year we will
have to win one of the Grand Tours to top this."


He added: "Phil was a pioneer, you can't really relate it to how
it was with Phil. But with the level of the competition now, this
is huge."

