

The US military authorities are failing to cooperate with yet
another probe into the deaths of British troops in Iraq during
the US-led invasion in 2003, an investigating coroner said
Monday.


"It seems to me inexcusable that witnesses could come to assist
this inquest but are not allowed to do so," Andrew Walker told
the hearing in Oxford, south central England.


It is not the first time Walker has criticised the United States
for failing to co-operate with hearings into the deaths of
British troops in Iraq.


In March, he repeatedly expressed his frustration at the
Pentagon's failure to provide vital information and witnesses
into the death of a British soldier, who died after two US jets
mistakenly fired on his clearly-marked convoy.


The "friendly fire" death was a criminal breach of the
international law of armed conflict, he said, ruling the soldier
was killed unlawfully.


Walker's latest complaint came at an inquest into the deaths of
eight British troops killed aboard a US helicopter which crashed
south of the Kuwaiti border on March 21, 2003.


He told a packed courtroom that Washington had failed to grant
his request for access to infrared tape taken by command aircraft
which he believed held radio transmissions before and after the
crash.


He also said footage filmed by an embedded crew from US
television outlet Fox News was also being withheld.


Walker said the United States was again refusing to provide any
American witnesses to give evidence at his hearing despite
"strenuous attempts" by his office and Britain's defence
ministry.


"We are again at the beginning of an inquest without the
necessary answers to the questions from the US service
personnel," he said.


Sharon Hehir, the widow of Sergeant Les Hehir, 34, one of the
victims of the crash, found it "inexplicable" that Washington had
failed to help more, according to lawyer Philip Spencer,
representing the family.


"It's a matter of deep regret and anger on her part that the
Americans have refused to co-operate," he said.


With nods of agreement from other families in the court, he
added: "It gives the impression of a cover-up."


Dying along with four US troops on a US Marine Corps helicopter,
Hehir and seven other servicemen became the first British
casualties of the Iraq war.

