

Britain on Monday backed a call by the Netherlands for an amended
European Union treaty without the characteristics of a
constitution in order to tackle popular fears of a European
"superstate".


A draft treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making among an
enlarged 27-member EU has been in political limbo since its
rejection during referendums in France and the Netherlands in
2005.


Flanked by his visiting Dutch counterpart Jan Peter Balkenende,
British Prime Minister Tony Blair backed a Dutch draft which he
said calls "for an amended treaty but not a treaty with the
characteristics of a constitution".


During a joint press conference at 10 Downing Street in London,
Blair welcomed the Dutch draft, saying: "It is one we would back
and endorse."


While the Dutch and French have rejected the original draft
treaty, 18 EU states have ratified it and others are still
mulling it over.


"We have to find a solution together," Balkenende said.
"Therefore it is important that we really make progress in June
when we have a meeting of the European Council, and that I really
hope we can get a clear roadmap.


"If we are going to a conclusion in June, it is important to say
we will work in the direction of an amended treaty."


Blair said he believes people can differentiate between what
"would give rise to a European superstate that we do not want...
and those things that are necessary in order to make Europe work
more effectively".


He said Dutch calls for a bigger role for national parliaments
would help soothe concerns.


Blair favoured an amended treaty that would be within the
tradition of existing European treaties "that makes the rules of
the Europe Union work more effectively" for the enlarged
27-member EU.


He opposed a constitutional treaty that amounted to a whole new
set of legal principles.


"Given the political reality not just in our two countries, but
in Europe, it's sensible to go back to a more traditional way of
doing things," the British prime minister said.

