

The Nigerian Supreme Court on Monday reversed an electoral
commission ruling that disqualified a top opposition politician,
Vice President Atiku Abubakar, from this weekend's presidential
poll.


In a unanimous verdict, the seven justices ruled that the lower
court of appeal "was in error" in holding that the commission had
the power to disqualify any candidate.


The Supreme Court, however, said that it would give the reason
for its decision only on June 29.


An Abuja appeals court had on April 3 ruled that the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) did have the power to
disqualify a candidate from running in the April 21 elections.


"It is my considered view that not only has the appelant (the
electoral commission) the power to screen and disqualify
candidates but to remove the name of candidates without recourse
to court," said the April 3 statement.


Shortly after the Supreme Court ruling, INEC lawyer Joe Gadzama,
said: "The Supreme Court has spoken. What it means is that
anybody can contest."


Abubakar's spokesman Shehu Garba hailed the court's decision.


"It is a fantastic decision. It is a big relief to every lover of
democracy in this land because this judgement is not for the vice
president alone."


"This is to free Nigerian democracy from arbitrariness. It is a
vote for due process of the law in this country," he added.


INEC's recently-published final list of those eligible to contest
elections this month excluded Abubakar pending determination of
his case at the Supreme Court.


State governorship and parliamentary polls were held on Saturday
while presidential and National Assembly elections are fixed for
April 21.


The INEC barred Abubakar, President Olusegun Obasanjo's deputy
since the return of democratic rule in May 1999, after he was
indicted on alleged corruption charges by a panel of enquiry.


Since then, Abubakar, 60, a former senior customs officer, has
been battling in several courts to get his name cleared and
inserted in the electoral list.


He is the candidate of Action Congress, one of the two main
challengers to the ruling Peoples Democractic Party in the
elections.

