

He has not been seen in public for months, but Monday's dramatic
withdrawal of his supporters from the government shows that
radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr is still a dangerous force in
Iraq.


The Shiite preacher -- whose location has been a mystery since
October and is said by the US military to be in Iran -- continues
to be the most enigmatic militant leader and potential power-
player in post-Saddam Hussein Iraq.


On Monday, he ordered his political bloc's six ministers to quit
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's ruling coalition in protest at
the government's cooperation with the US force in Iraq.


His next move will be keenly anticipated -- with experts divided
over whether this marks a setback for a militia chieftain who
wanted to reinvent himself as a politician, or a shrewd move to
shore up his patriotic base.


Initially underestimated by US authorities and Iraqi officials,
the son of revered Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Sadiq al-Sadr showed
that he can pull political strings even from his undisclosed
location.


His supporters deny he is hiding and claim that he continues to
live and work in the holy city of Najaf, but on April 9 he failed
to turn up at a huge rally of his supporters in the city.


Sadr is backed by the Mahdi Army militia -- estimated to have
thousands of loyal fighters -- and by 32 MPs in the embattled
Iraqi parliament.


The US military accuses his militia of killing Sunni Arabs in the
sectarian conflict that has engulfed Baghdad.


The Pentagon in its December quarterly report termed the militia
as the biggest single threat to Iraqi stability, even ahead of
Al-Qaeda.


The cleric is idolised by millions of Shiites in Najaf and the
teeming Baghdad slum renamed Sadr City after the fall of Saddam.


"He has become the authentic spokesman for a significant portion
of traditionally disenfranchised Iraqis, who, far from benefiting
from the former regime's ouster, remained marginalised from the
emerging political order," a July 2006 International Crisis Group
report said.


Sadr's father and two brothers were killed in 1999 by gunmen
allegedly sent by Saddam, but young Sadr, now in his 30s, shot to
prominence in April 2003 after a US-led invasion toppled Saddam.


Since then, Sadr has twice challenged US forces with armed
rebellions.


Though his fighters took a beating, the nationalist cleric has
gained an aura that is the envy of Iraqi political leaders who
established close ties with Washington.


But his decision to go into hiding and failure to address his
followers at the Najaf rally has earned him criticism.


Analysts say the decision to pull his ministers out of the
cabinet was an attempt to showcase his power.  "Sadr wants to
consolidate his ranks," said Joost Hiltermann, Iraq expert at
ICG.


While he has few religious credentials, Sadr wears the black
turban of a "sayyid" or descendant of the Prophet Mohammed,
matched by a black beard and fierce eyes that scour at the world
from beneath a furrowed brow.


As US and Iraqi soldiers continue their crackdown in Baghdad to
control his militiamen, Sadr displayed his political power by
throwing Maliki's government into a difficulty when Iraq is
bitterly divided over sectarian lines.


The cleric has however seen that his fighters do not clash with
security forces, preferring to wait out the current security
operations.


Arrests of dozens of his men have not triggered the sort of
violent protests that followed the March 2004 shutdown of his
newspaper Al-Hawzah on charges of inciting violence.


In August of that year, fighting between his militia and US
forces culminated in the siege of Najaf's revered Imam Ali
shrine.


But some say the cleric, once wanted "dead or alive" by US
authorities, now is battling to retain his tenuous hold on
militia leaders and is careful not to let any gain too much
influence.


In April 2004, the then top US official in Iraq, Paul Bremer,
branded Sadr an outlaw and vowed to bring him to trial for the
murder of moderate rival cleric Abdul Majid al-Khoei a year
earlier in Najaf.


Khoei had cooperated with the British and US governments while in
exile during Saddam's regime.


Sadr denied any involvement in the murder, which had angered
Shiite leaders.


Sadr has since become a political kingmaker who never seeks
office himself but can swing votes in parliament to his
advantage.

