

Iraq and its neighbours face a fresh humanitarian crisis over the
millions displaced by the conflict there, relief agencies and
rights groups said Monday ahead of a UN-sponsored conference in
Geneva.


The Norwegian Refugee Council said that almost half of the four
million people forced to flee their homes in 2006 were displaced
by the violence in Iraq or the Israel-Hezbollah conflict in
Lebanon.


"The massive scale of forced displacement in recent months adds
to the dramatic worsening of the humanitarian situation in Iraq,"
the council's secretary general Tomas Archer said.


He warned that the situation could broaden the sectarian divide
and redraw the Iraq's ethnic and religious map.


In a separate report, Amnesty International said two million
Iraqis had fled not just their homes, but the entire country.


"Syria and Jordan have borne the brunt of the refugee exodus so
far" said Malcolm Smart, director of London-based rights group's
Middle East and North African Programme.


"But there must be a limit to which they can continue to do so in
the face of the continuing surge by Iraqis desperate to escape
the conflict," he said, urging the United States and Europe to
step up to the plate.


The Norwegian Refugee Council's permanent representative in
Geneva, Paul Nesse, said relief agencies had to ensure their own
efforts did not end up reinforcing sectarian displacement.


"We have to shape up our own awareness as NGOs, to acknowledge
when somebody is trying to use us and humanitarian assistance to
their own advantage, which happens often," he told journalists.


While coalition forces in Iraq have a responsibility to protect
the civilian population, Nesse warned that by blurring the lines
between military action and humanitarian aid, they endangered the
neutrality of relief agencies.


"Iraq unfortunately has been a prime example of mixing military
efforts with humanitarian assistance. It is not the work or the
duty, it should not be the function of military forces to provide
humanitarian assistance, their function is to provide security,"
he said.


"The negative effects of that is experienced by us as
humanitarian agencies because we are seen as being part of the
same group as the military forces," Nesse added.


Across the world, some four million people were internally
displaced during 2006 as a result of armed conflict, more than
twice as many as in previous years, the council said in its
annual report.


"With the proliferation of armed groups in many conflicts, the
displacement of civilians is often not a mere by-product of war,
but a deliberate strategy used by rebels and government forces
alike," Archer warned.


Some 3.6 million people were able to go back home, but the global
total by December had risen to 24.5 million compared to 23.7
million a year earlier, the annual report said.


Despite relief efforts, many millions are still without adequate
assistance, warned Dennis McNamara, special advisor to the UN's
emergency relief coordinator.


"We still have many millions of displaced civilians globally who
continue not to receive adequate assistance and protection either
from their host authorities or from the international community
... that's a situation that urgently needs to be better
addressed," he told journalists.


Hundreds of thousands of civilians were also forced to flee in
Sudan's strife- torn region of Darfur (450,000), neighbouring
Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo (500,000), Colombia
(200,000) and in Sri Lanka.

