

Rival Ivory Coast leaders were Monday to start dismantling a
buffer zone that has divided the West African country for four
years since a failed coup sparked a civil war.


Arch-rivals turned partners-in-government, President Laurent
Gbagbo and Prime Minister Guillaume Soro were to preside over
ceremonies for the landmark event in country's UN-backed peace
process.


The buffer zone has been patrolled by UN peacekeepers to separate
Soro's rebels in the north of the country and Gbagbo's government
forces in the south.


The United Nations created the so-called "confidence zone" in
2002 to end a brief civil war after a failed coup attempt by Soro
to topple Gbagbo.


Soro, who became prime minister under a peace deal sealed last
month, led the rebellion by discontented soldiers from the mainly
Muslim north who complained of being marginalised by Gbagbo's
Christian-dominated government.


After several mediation attempts by former colonial ruler France,
the United Nations, the African Union and a west African regional
bloc failed, Gbagbo and Soro finalised a their own peace deal on
March 4.


Gbagbo and Soro will officially dismantle a checkpoint at
Tiebissou, 42 kilometres (26 miles) from the administrative
capital Yamoussoukro.


After that they will move to a village in the heart of the buffer
zone for the installation of the first joint patrol comprising
equal number of government and rebel forces, assisted by four UN
police officers.


Thousands of UN troops who have patrolled the zone will be phased
out gradually and replaced by troops from a joint Ivorian army.
The former protagonists are to set up an integrated command
centre in Yamoussoukro to organise the re- unification of the two
armed forces.


Soro and Gbagbo agreed last month to bury the hatchet and re-
unite the former economic powerhouse of west Africa.


The end of the demilitarised zone will ease movement of people
and goods between north and south, and speed up the re-deployment
of government to facilitate preparations for long-delayed
elections.

