

Czech lawmakers visited a US military radar station on the
Marshall Islands set for transfer to Eastern Europe as part of
Washington's controversial anti- missile defence shield there,
the US embassy said Monday.


"The radar on the Marshall Islands will be dismantled and brought
to the Czech Republic," embassy spokeswoman Victoria Silverman
told AFP.


The radar, used for the past 10 years at the Marshall Islands
military base, will be refurbished and updated before being
dispatched, according to an embassy website concerning the
controversial proposal.


Washington is pushing to build a radar system in the Czech
Republic and put missiles in neighbouring Poland to defend
against what it says are potential attacks from "rogue" states
like Iran.


Prague announced at the end of March that it would launch
official negotiations with Washington over hosting the radar
station.


The US plan has divided NATO members and provoked a furious
reaction from Moscow, which sees the shield proposal as a threat
to its national security.


Russian officials and NATO representatives are due to discuss
those fears at a meeting on April 19.


The combined cost of the Czech-Polish anti-missile system will be
around 3.5 billion dollars (2.6 billion euros), the head of the
US Missile Defence Agency, General Henry Obering, said in an
interview recently published in the Czech daily Dnes.


Domestically, the project to host a foreign base in the former
Soviet-dominated country has created tension within Prime
Minister Mirek Topolanek's fragile centre-right coalition and
split Czech public opinion.


The United States has meanwhile sought to ease fears among the
local population at the favoured site for the radar base, around
100 kilometres (60 miles) west of Prague, about its health
affects and interference, insisting it would have no more impact
than a weather or air traffic control radar.


Once bilateral negotiations between Prague and Washington are
completed at the end of the year, the Czech parliament will have
the final word on whether to accept the plan.


The Czech delegation visiting the radar station on Monday
consisted of four lawmakers from Topolanek's rightwing Civic
Democrat party, three from the main leftwing opposition Social
Democrats party, and one independent member of parliament.


One Christian Democrat and one Communist lawmaker were late in
applying for visas and were unable to join the party, the United
States embassy here said.

