

An elite Philippine Army unit on Monday killed an armed follower
of a renegade Muslim separatist leader who has launched a fresh
rebellion against the government, a military spokesman said.


The unnamed gunman was a suspected follower of Moro National
Liberation Front leader Habier Malik.


Army Scout rangers shot dead the gunman during a manhunt for
Malik near the town of Panamao on Jolo island, Lieutenant-Colonel
Bartolome Bacarro told reporters in Manila.


Malik's forces had launched hostilities on Good Friday -- a holy
day in the calendar of the mainly Roman Catholic nation with a
Muslim minority -- when they shelled a Philippine Marine base in
Panamao, killing two Marines and a civilian.


It was not clear why Malik's forces attacked the camp, although
there was speculation he wanted to pressure the government to
release MNLF chief and founder Nur Misuari, who was jailed and is
on trial for a similar armed rebellion in 2001 that left more
than 100 people dead.


Philippine troops seized Malik's training camp in Panamao last
weekend.


Manila signed a peace treaty with the MNLF in 1996, ending a
decades-old separatist campaign in return for limited Muslim
self-rule. The government is now in talks with a second faction,
the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.


Jesus Dureza, who advises President Gloria Arroyo on peace talks
with Muslim rebels, urged the MNLF leadership "to take
appropriate steps and accordingly deal with the criminal and
violent acts perpetrated by one of its commanders, Ustadz Habier
Malik."


He warned that Malik's actions posed "an additional challenge in
our peace engagement with the MNLF.


"The military operation is not against the MNLF organisation. It
is a limited military action against an MNLF rogue commander who
staged an unprovoked attack on Panamao resulting in the death and
injuries of civilians and damage to properties," he added.


Dureza said the government was heartened that "most MNLF leaders
and members" had "disagreed with Malik's latest actions."


However, the official also urged the Philippine military to
"calibrate its actions and put a quick end to its efforts, taking
into account the plight of the innocent civilians who are
adversely affected during conflict situations."


Dureza also welcomed the call of the secretary-general of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) for an end to
hostilities in Jolo.


Misuari remains an influential figure in Muslim communities in
the south and Malik is a known Misuari loyalist. The OIC has been
lobbying for his release to attend a meeting in Saudi Arabia in
July.


The 57-nation OIC recognises the MNLF as the sole representative
of Muslim minorities in the Philippines.

