

Malaysia on Monday said scientists who claim orangutan
populations are threatened by forest-clearing are trying to hurt
the country's palm oil industry.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said the scientists were trying
to undermine the image of palm oil, a mainstay of the Malaysian
economy touted as an important biofuel of the future.


"It's not true. There is an ulterior motive which is to hurt the
interest of the oil palm industry. That is the real intention,"
Najib told reporters.


Malaysian officials have previously accused Western scientists of
trying to smear the palm oil industry to boost rival products
from developed countries.


Najib's comments came amid recent claims by scientists, published
in Malay- language daily Utusan Malaysia, that Borneo island's
orangutans were under threat of extinction as their habitats
disappear.


A study completed in September orangutans and other animals along
the Kinabatangan river, in central Sabah province, said the apes
could face extinction in less than 50 years if immediate
conservation measures were not taken.


Chunks of forest land in Malaysia's Borneo, where orangutans
reside, have been carved away by private land ownership, mainly
plantations, to grow crops.


But Najib insisted that Malaysia had a proven international track
record for its forest conservation and clearing forest land for
plantation was done on a sustainable basis.


"In terms of our forest cover, including permanent forest
reserves, land size, we still have wide areas. We have also
gazetted sizable areas for orangutan conservation programmes,"
Najib said.


He said in terms of conserving forests, "Malaysia is among the
best, far better than many European countries."


Malaysia has been championing the use of palm oil as a biofuel
which can be used as an alternative to fossil fuels, but
environmentalists and wildlife groups have debated its possible
effects on the environment.


Orangutans are Asia's only great ape and are split into two
species, one of which -- the Pongo pygmaeus -- is found only on
Borneo, an island shared by Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei. Most
of them are in Malaysia's Sabah province.


Besides forest clearing, orangutans are also threatened by forest
fires, commercial logging, hunting and poaching.

