

The deployment of thousands of police to break up weekend
opposition marches suggests that the Kremlin is increasingly
nervous about next year's presidential hand-over, the
government's critics said on Monday.


Hundreds of people were arrested as riot police forcefully broke
up demonstrations by the Other Russia movement in both Moscow and
Saint Petersburg.


For many in the liberal opposition, the clamp-down betrayed a
fear of the kind of popular uprising seen in Ukraine in 2004,
which helped cement democratic values and bacame known as the
Orange Revolution.


President Vladimir Putin is due to stand down at an election in
March of next year, under a constitutional rule banning an
individual from holding the post for more than two terms in a
row.


In Kremlin political circles "they are terrified of the example
of Ukraine," said analyst Yury Korgunyuk of the Indem think tank.


"For them the example of Belarus is far more attractive," he
said, referring to the authoritarian neighbouring regime of
Alexander Lukashenko.


"Those around Putin now live one day at a time. They are using
all means necessary to maintain the current status quo, not
worrying about what will happen later," he said.


The sentiment was echoed by Robert Amsterdam, a lawyer for former
Yukos oil company boss Mikhail Khodorkovsky, whose jailing for
financial crimes has badly damaged Putin's international standing
due to suspicions that it was politically motivated.


"The palpable fear in the streets of Moscow is not that of the
demonstrators, but that of the autocrats clinging to power in the
Kremlin," said Amsterdam.


Others point out that the mass arrests of peaceful protesters
could further damage relations with the West.


"The Kremlin has now got a reputation problem as acute as that of
Alexander Lukashenko," opposition leader Boris Nemtsov told the
Kommersant daily on Monday, referring to the Belarussian leader.


Much of the Russian media failed to see the logic of the clamp-
down.


"It's as impossible to rid yourself of unsystematic opposition as
it is of your own shadow," political analyst Dmitry Oreshkin told
the Kommersant daily. "The authorities are prolonging this
opposition through their own actions."


"Scattering a peaceful demonstration with unprecedented force,
our rulers demonstrated the timeless Russian ability to form a
gigantic problem for themselves and then heroically deal with
it," said the mass-circulation daily Moskovsky Komsomolets.


For others the government is purposely over-reacting to the
current threat so that people fear coming onto the streets under
any circumstances.


While Russia is currently enjoying its most stable period for
decades, there is real fear among the authorities that the
situation could slip out of control, said analyst Boris
Kagarlitsky, director of Moscow's Institute for Globalization.


Analysts have repeatedly pointed to the yawning gap between rich
and poor in Russia, which accounts for some of the worlds
wealthiest people but is also afflicted by pockets of severe
poverty.


"In the event of an external shock like a fall in the price of
oil or Putin leaving power, destabilization is entirely possible.
These people (in power) are now incapable of maintaining
stability. Their actions risk dangerous consequences," said
Kagarlitsky.


"The more the authorities lie to themselves about how everything
is wonderful, the more they are afraid," said Kagarlitsky.


In 2005 popular protests against a cut in social benefits quickly
provided an instant signal to the Kremlin that they had taken a
step too far.


"If it is not possible for society to let off steam, the saucepan
is likely to explode," said Yury Korgunyuk of Indem.

