

Malaysia's election commissioner on Monday called on eligible
citizens to register as voters, saying preparations by the ruling
coalition signalled an early general election.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi has been coy on flagging a
date for the election, which must be held by early 2009, but his
ruling coalition discussed polls at a key meeting last month


"We are already talking about elections, don't take this lightly.
When leaders talk about elections and start discussing grassroots
election machinery, then what do you think about that?" election
commission chairman Abdul Rashid Abdul Rahman told reporters.


"The electoral roll will be ready by August this year for the
next general election. After that, anything can happen," he
added.


Abdul Rashid said he hoped to finalise and release the electoral
roll by December.


"I hope elections will not be called by then. That is why the
election commission is taking steps to get people to register now
or they will miss the next polls."


Malaysia's last general election was in March 2004 and it must
hold another within five years of the new parliament's first
sitting.


Abdul Rashid said Malaysia had to go to the polls by May 16,
2009, but noted parliaments rarely saw full five-year terms.


"If you look at history, parliament has always been dissolved
after four years," he said.


He said 15.21 million of Malaysia's population of nearly 27
million are eligible to vote, but only 10.2 million were
registered.


Expectations are rising of an early vote, with opposition parties
saying Abdullah will call polls soon to head off what they say is
growing disenchantment with his administration.


Analysts also expect an election before opposition leader and
former deputy premier Anwar Ibrahim becomes eligible to
participate in formal politics.


Anwar has a corruption conviction against him, which barrs him
from standing for public office until April 2008.


Abdullah has brushed aside the speculation, insisting he wants to
focus on implementing mega-projects under a five-year development
plan unveiled a year ago.

