

A witness to the glitzy wedding of British model Elizabeth Hurley
and India's Arun Nayar will tell a court this week that the
nuptials contravened Hindu traditions, a lawyer said Monday.


The glamorous couple wed in the desert city of Jodhpur over a
month ago but may now risk jail there with a judge set to decide
whether they should be prosecuted after hearing testimony
presented by enraged Hindus.


Hurley and businessman Nayar had allegedly drunk alcohol prior to
the religious rites, kissed near a sacred fire and sported
leather shoes -- even though the cow is considered sacred in
Hinduism.


"I am attempting to bring someone who was present at the wedding
before the court on Tuesday," said prosecuting lawyer Hastimal
Saraswat.


Saraswat, who would not disclose whether the witness was a guest
or a wedding employee, said he did not want to reveal any further
details for fear the person would come under pressure not to
appear.


India's penal code makes it an offence punishable by three years
in jail to "outrage" any group's religion with "deliberate and
malicious intention."


The couple staged a lavish ceremony at a fort in the desert state
of Rajasthan that was exclusively covered by celebrity magazine
Hello!, which reportedly paid two million pounds (3.9 million
dollars) for the rights.


But after seeing the pictures in the magazine, an angry Jodhpur
resident hired Saraswat to take legal action.


"Liz Hurley and Arun Nayar insulted Hindu tradition and I want
them to be severely punished," Vishnu Khandelwal, a devout Hindu
who runs a printing press, told AFP last week.


The court has already heard from several witnesses, including
Khandelwal and a Hindu priest, said lawyer Saraswat, who said he
had pictures of the couple acting in ways that he deemed against
Hindu marriage customs.


"I have already given 10 photographs to the court of Liz Hurley
and Arun Nayar, in which they were kissing and drinking alcohol,"
said Saraswat.


"This will be the 11th photograph," he said, clarifying that
these photographs were different from the ones that appeared in
Hello! magazine and had been "obtained" from someone.


The photograph shows Arun Nayar wearing leather footwear near the
fire, in a land that worships the cow.


Earlier, the lawyer had said the bride's own father-in-law was
considering testifying against the couple.


Vinod Nayar told Sunday tabloids in Britain he had severed ties
with his son after being allegedly ejected from the marriage
proceedings at Hurley's behest.

