

Team New Zealand, out to avenge the humbling 5-0 capitulation of
their America's Cup crown to Alinghi four years ago, are first
out on the water here Monday for the opening match in the Louis
Vuitton Cup.


The Kiwis are among 11 challengers hoping to earn the right to
tackle Alinghi in June's America's Cup by winning the Louis
Vuitton which comprises two sets of round robin stages, semi-
finals and final.


Team New Zealand, buoyed by the presence of 18th 'man' Prime
Minister Helen Clark, are up against Italian boat Mascalzone
Latino-Capitalia.


"We haven't talked about the protocol of how to address her but
I'm sure she won't be too happy if she gets soaked," the team's
skipper, Dean Barker, said.


The 31-year-old was at the helm of that drubbing by the Swiss in
Auckland in 2003 and is desperate to gain redress.


"For me 2003 seems a long, long time ago.


"After all the hours testing New Zealand are ready to put their
best foot forward. We're ready to go racing and hopefully get a
good result."


With the America's Cup rules stipulating the yachting blue riband
must be held on seawater Valencia was chosen over Marseille as
host and Spain's third city has risen to the challenge,
constructing a purpose built marina, the Port America's Cup, for
the occasion.


With 10 countries including debutants China, Germany and South
Africa, and five continents represented, the 32nd America's Cup
is the most international ever since the first off the Isle of
Wight in 1851.


Favourites with Team New Zealand are BMW Oracle, whose
determination to win back the trophy that was held in the United
States for a 132 year period from the inaugural edition through
to 1983 can be measured by the over 120 million dollars invested
in their bid.


That's pocket money for their backer, software tycoon Larry
Ellison, who with 21.5 billion dollars in the bank is seventh in
Forbes' 2007 rich list.


The round robin stage of the Louis Vuitton Cup where each of the
challengers races against each other finishes on May 6 with the
top four graduating to the May 14-25 semi-finals.


The final runs for a fortnight from June 1 with the victor taking
on Alinghi in the best of nine America's Cup match from June 23.


Four of the past six holders of the Louis Vuitton have gone on to
topple the defender.


"We are in for an incredible sporting story full of drama,
intrigue and surprise," predicted the organiser's media director,
Marcus Hutchinson.


"It'll be known as the Battle of Valencia, and like all great sea
battles there's only one winner."


Described by one French sailing professional as being like a team
of rugbymen on board a Formula One car playing a game of chess -
this America's Cup promises to be the most competitive ever
staged.


Peter Isler, who as skipper of BMW Oracle is hoping to bring the
'Auld Mug' back to America for the first time in a decade and a
half, predicted: "There's a deeper fleet this time and compared
to previous Cups the boat speeds are closer, racing will be
tight, I reckon it'll be the closest yet."


Conditions for the last preliminary regatta, Act 13, staged here
last week were far from ideal but the fleet were greeted Monday
with clear blue skies and forecast of 10-12 knot light winds.

