

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vowed on Monday that Iran would not
give in to Western demands over its nuclear drive, saying Tehran
would "resist to the end" in the intensifying crisis.


"The Iranian people will resist until the end on acquiring their
rights and will not shift an inch," Ahmadinejad said in a speech
in the southern city of Shiraz broadcast live on state
television.


"The Iranian nation will not be dissuaded in its drive and the
Iranian nation is standing united on this," he told thousands of
cheering people gathered in a sports stadium for the rally.


Ahmadinejad's remarks appear to confirm that Iran has no
intention of yielding to international demands that it suspend
uranium enrichment work, a process the West fears could be used
to make nuclear weapons.


Tehran just last week said that its uranium enrichment work was
now at an "industrial scale," although international observers
have cast doubt over what stage its nuclear programme has
reached.


"The Iranian people will stand firm on the nuclear issue to
acquire all their rights, will continue solidly to reach the
summits of perfection and will raise their fists to insist on
their rights," Ahmadinejad told the crowd.


In a typically pugnacious speech -- his first such public address
since the crisis with Britain over the 15 captured navy personnel
-- Ahmadinejad also warned world powers not to misuse the UN
Security Council.


"Do not misuse the international organisations that you yourself
have built. You cannot create a crack in the will of the Iranian
people.


"Give up your bullying methods! Otherwise rest assured that you
will lose and you will impose great losses on your nations. What
did you gain in Iraq, what did you gain in Palestine and
Lebanon?" he asked.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
on Iran over its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, and the
Islamic republic faces further punitive measures if it does not
comply.


"Follow the path of justice and improve your relations with
others," Ahmadinejad admonished the Western powers.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
action to bring Iran to heel should sanctions fail to work. Iran
insists that its nuclear programme is peaceful.


The Iranian army's top commander warned on Monday that any
aggressor would be "destroyed" by Iran.


"We intend no harm to others, but if they want to harm us we will
destroy the enemy and the enemy knows this," Attaollah Salehi
said.


Despite Iran's announcement last week that its nuclear programme
has reached an industrial level, it has still not disclosed how
many centrifuges it has installed to enrich uranium at a nuclear
plant in Natanz.


International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) chief Mohamed ElBaradei
said last week Iran still had installed only "hundreds" of
centrifuges at Natanz, well short of its medium-term goal of
3,000.


Iran's foreign ministry replied on Sunday that ElBaradei would
know the exact progress of Iran's nuclear programme when IAEA
inspectors return home from an ongoing regular inspection visit.


Russia has said it has seen no sign that Iran has made any
breakthrough in its nuclear programme "that would change the
character of the work in the field of enrichment."


A Russian contractor is building Iran's first nuclear power plant
in the southern city of Bushehr.

