

France held ceremonies Monday to mark the 90th anniversary of one
of the French army's most disastrous World War I battles, a
fiasco marked by widespread mutiny and massive loss of life.


The Second Battle of the Aisne was the main offensive of a wider
campaign that was intended to bring a flash victory in under 48
hours through a massive onslaught on German lines cutting across
northern France.


Launched on April 16, 1917 under orders from the French armed
forces chief General Robert Nivelle, the offensive failed,
leading to a bloodbath in which 40,000 French troops died and
80,000 were injured and achieving virtually nothing in terms of
territorial gain.


The operation -- known in French as the Battle of the Chemin des
Dames, or "Ladies' Way" after the area where it took place --
went down in history as a military fiasco, and led to Nivelle's
replacement as army chief on May 15.


Suffering from heavy losses and appalling living conditions, and
angry at what they saw as poor command, an estimated 30,000 to
40,000 French troops -- farmers, minors, factory workers --
downed their weapons in mutiny in the following weeks.


Some 49 French soldiers were shot, 27 of them for desertion,
during the Chemin de Dames campaign, according to General Andre
Bach, a former senior army historian.


Events commemorating the battle kicked off on Sunday night, when
a trail of torches lit up the 20 kilometres (12 miles) between
Reims and Soissons, today linked by a regional highway.


Early Monday morning a guided walk took hikers along the ground
covered by French troops -- a 90-minute journey which took the
troops 20 days.


"This is about giving the Chemin des Dames its place in history,
alongside Verdun and other more glorious events," said historian
Guy Marival, in charge of organising the ceremonies.


The national secretary for veterans, Hamloui Mekachera, was due
to represent the government at Monday's ceremonies in the village
of Craonne, in the Aisne department north of Paris.


Commemorations are to last until September 22, when France's next
president -- in presence of several African leaders -- will
unveil a monument to the memory of troops from France's west
African colonies who fell in World War I.

