

US stocks streaked higher Monday morning as sentiment was boosted
by a 25 -billion-dollar takeover deal, generally strong earnings
from Citigroup and a better-than-expected report on retail sales.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average had surged 89.07 points (0.71
percent) to 12,701.20 at 1454 GMT while the tech-rich Nasdaq
composite increased 20.99 points (0.84 percent) to 2,512.93.


The Standard and Poor's 500 index gained a hefty 12.20 points
(0.84 percent) to 1,465.05.


Wall Street was helped by gains on Asian and European markets
overnight as well as news of a prospective 25-billion-dollar
private equity takeover deal for US student loan finance giant
Sallie Mae.


Meanwhile the government reported that US retail sales spiked by
a more-than- expected 0.7 percent, and banking giant Citigroup
topped most forecasts as it announced quarterly profits of 5.01
billion dollars.


"The market enters the heavy part of earnings season with
optimism and modest momentum," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


But Green said that because of a cloudy economic outlook, "We
aren't convinced that the good times will continue into May or
the summer months."


In the latest in a wave of big private equity deals swamping US
financial markets, an investor group led by JC Flowers & Co
said it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase SLM
Corporation, or Sallie Mae, for 60 dollars a share.


Sallie Mae was created in 1972 as a government-sponsored
corporation to finance student loans. It began privatizing in
1997, and severed ties to the federal government in 2004.


The private equity groups are keen to get their hands on Sallie
Mae because of its vast loan portfolio, around 142 billion
dollars, and steady income stream as millions of new students
arrive at university every year.


Citigroup's shares meanwhile had rocketed 1.72 dollars, or over
three percent, to 53.32 dollars after the financial titan
announced its latest profits.


Its results include a previously disclosed charge of 1.38 billion
dollars linked to a major overhaul that will see 17,000 job
losses and a shifting of 9,500 positions to "lower cost
locations" as some corporate operations are consolidated.


Citigroup said it generated strong momentum during the quarter,
with revenues increasing 15 percent to a record 25.459 billion
dollars.


"We achieved these results while completing our structural
expense review, which will help us become a leaner, more
efficient organization and lower our rate of expense growth,"
said chairman and chief executive Charles Prince.


Rounding off the morning's upbeat news were the latest retail
sales numbers, which showed Americans holding true to their
popular image as voracious spenders.


The Commerce Department's monthly snapshot on retail sales, a key
driver of economic growth, defied most Wall Street analysts who
had only anticipated a 0.4 percent rise in March sales.


The sales gain was also the strongest since December, when sales
are heavily bolstered by shoppers snapping up Christmas gifts.


The report was welcomed by Wall Street as it appeared to show
American consumers' flocked to shopping malls last month despite
a housing market downturn and high gasoline prices taking a bite
out of their incomes.

