

Sweden raised its 2007 growth forecast on Monday as it presented
a spring budget to parliament focused on employment and helping
youths and immigrants enter the job market.


The centre-right coalition government headed by Prime Minister
Fredrik Reinfeldt, in power since October 2006, said it now
expects growth of 3.7 percent this year, compared to the 3.3
percent forecast in October.


It also revised upwards its forecast for 2008 from 3.1 to 3.3
percent.


"Good income growth, rising employment and low interest rates are
resulting in strong consumption growth," the government said in a
statement.


It forecast a budget surplus of 2.3 percent of gross domestic
product (GDP) for 2007, unchanged from the previous forecast.


The four-party government coalition, which has made getting
Swedes back to work its priority, said it expected the
unemployment rate to drop to 6.7 percent in 2007, down from 8.4
percent in 2006, and to 6.2 percent in 2008.


In October, it had forecast a jobless rate of 7.7 percent for
2007.


"The demand for labour is strong and the employment rate will
therefore continue to rise in 2007 and 2008," it said.


"We are now beginning to see results from the government's
policies. The number of people in regular employment will
increase by 185,000 by 2009. Over the same period, total
unemployment will fall by nearly 100,000," Finance Minister
Anders Borg said.


The government will introduce a package of reforms aimed at
reducing unemployment in particular among young people and
immigrants, the groups most heavily affected.


In order to help youths enter the labour market, the government
has proposed to lower employers' social security contributions
for young people and will introduce a job guarantee for people
aged 16 to 24. It has also vowed to make it simpler and more
profitable to start a business.


For newly-arrived immigrants, a "step-in" programme will be
introduced where employment is combined with language instruction
and mentorships.


Since coming to power, the centre-right government has already
announced a slew of measures to take Sweden down a more liberal
economic path.


Traditionally a high-tax country, where tax revenues fund the
generous welfare system, Sweden has under the centre-right
government announced plans to abolish wealth tax and property
tax, and has already reduced income tax and cut unemployment
insurance benefits.

