

Iran on Monday pardoned two Swedish nationals jailed for
photographing military installations last year and will release
them later in the day, the foreign ministry said.


"Within the framework of the humanitarian efforts of Iran and
following the requests of the families and repeated requests from
Swedish politicians... they have been pardoned and will be freed
at 6:00 pm" (1530 GMT), Mohammad Ali Hosseini said.


The two men, named as Stefan Johanssen and Jari Hjortmar, were
arrested in March 2006 for taking pictures of military
installations on Iran's southern island of Qeshm and sentenced to
two years in prison.


Hosseini said that the men would be released in the presence of
Urban Ahlin, deputy head of the Swedish parliament's foreign
affairs committee, and a top Iranian foreign ministry official
for the Europe region.


Their release comes less than two weeks after 15 British naval
personnel held by Iran on accusations of illegally entering
Iranian waters were suddenly pardoned and released.


Two other Europeans, German tourist Donald Klein and French boat
skipper Stephane Lherbier, were also both freed earlier this year
before completing 18-month sentences for violating Iran's
territorial waters.


The Swedish pair were charged with taking pictures of military
sites, naval facilities and telecommunication posts on Qeshm and
Iranian news agencies said at the time they had been jailed for
espionage.


Swedish press reports identified the two men as construction
workers aged between 30 and 40 from western Sweden.


Their case was far less publicised than that of Klein and
Lherbier let alone the 15 British sailors whose detention sparked
a major diplomatic standoff between Tehran and London.


However Hosseini emphasised that Ahlin had visited Iran three
times in the past eight months to discuss the case of the pair
and that during these trips he had met with the judiciary head
Ayatollah Hashemi Mahmoud Shahroudi.


Iran's detention of the Europeans came amid an escalating
standoff with Europe and the United States over its nuclear
programme, which the West suspects could be aimed at producing
nuclear weapons.


However Iran insists that its nuclear drive is solely aimed at
generating energy.

