

The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) army used
"disproportionate" force when clamping down on post-electoral
violence in the Bas Congo province in January, Human Rights Watch
(HRW) said on Saturday.


In its preliminary findings into the fighting, the campaign group
condemned the army for opening fire on unarmed protestors from
the Bunda dia Kongo (BDK) religious movement, although it also
accused the BDK of violence.


The clashes followed allegations by BDK that the first-round
election of Bas Congo's governor -- a candidate close to
victorious presidential candidate Joseph Kabila -- was rigged.


The United Nations mission in the DRC (Monuc) estimates that
about 120 people died in the fighting, although the interior
ministry counted 87 deaths.


In its report, which was based on a three-week mission to the
region and will be followed by a full study within weeks, HRW put
the toll at 116.


It said 104 of these were killed by the army or police, and 12,
including ten members of the security forces, were killed by the
BDK.


"On February 1 and the days that followed, the Congolese army
used disproportionate and inadequate force against the
demonstrators," HRW spokeswoman Anneke Van Woudenberg told a
parliamentary committee on Thursday.


The report said: "The soldiers attacked a BDK cult area, a
'zikua', in Muanda with automatic weapons and explosives, killing
23 people including four women and two children, none of whom
were taking part in the protest."


It continued: "Soldiers opened fire with automatic weapons on BDK
demonstrators while they prayed on the esplanade running from the
town of Kalamu to Boma, killing 24 of them."


HRW also condemned the BDK, saying that although the majority of
the protests against the alleged corruption were peaceful, in
several cases "the BDK demonstrators, armed with clubs, took part
in violent and illegal acts".


"These demonstrators killed ten police officers and police, as
well as two civilians, broke into and pillaged government
buildings and set up barricades," it said.


The report also criticised DRC government officials who it said
"didn't consult Monuc... which had the ability to maintain the
peace and help the civil police" and which "could have stopped
the violence".


The government, which has suspended three police officers
following the clashes, in February denounced BDK as a
paramilitary movement. But the HRW report "did not find any
convincing proof to support these allegations".


In its conclusion, HRW said the parliamentary committee set up in
February to investigate the clashes must demand the government to
ensure that all those responsible for the violence are brought to
justice.


It also called for a "meaningful dialogue" to be opened up with
the BDK.

