

Some 100,000 North Koreans put on a massive spectacle Saturday in
honour of the communist state's founder as a deadline slipped to
shut down its atomic reactor under a landmark accord.


In a celebration that knows no parallels, dancers, acrobats and
gymnasts filled Pyongyang's mammoth May 1 Stadium for an hour and
20 minutes of extraordinarily choreographed performances.


Among the 100,000 participants, some 18,000 schoolchildren,
coordinated as if they were all of one mind, raised coloured
boards to create successive giant mosaics of patriotic themes.


It was only the third edition of the "Arirang Festival," named
after a Korean folk song and first staged in 2002, and came on
the eve of the 95th anniversary of the birth of the late leader
and "Eternal President" Kim Il-Sung.


Outside of the stadium, thousands of women in colourful
traditional gowns and men in ties danced in public places to
practise for Sunday's "people's balls" on the birth date of Kim,
the father of current leader Kim Jong-Il.


As the capital partied, a deadline slipped for North Korea to
start to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor and admit UN
atomic inspectors as required under the first deadline of the
February 13 aid-for-disarmament deal.


North Korea, which tested a nuclear bomb in October, has insisted
it will not act until it receives 25 million dollars that were
blacklisted at Macau's Banco Delta Asia.


"There have been no new developments on the financial issue of
Banco Delta Asia," a North Korean official told AFP in Pyongyang.


The United States has said it has unblocked the money and that
North Korea can access it, but Pyongyang has vowed not to take
action until it has the money in its hands.


Christopher Hill, the US envoy who was key in brokering the
breakthrough six- nation deal, acknowledged on a visit to North
Korea's main ally China that "we don't have a lot of momentum
right now."


"The Chinese believe we should show a little more patience on
this in the coming days," Hill told journalists in Beijing.


"They said the lines of communication were open," Hill said. "If
it is going to get resolved it certainly should be able to get
resolved very soon."


Hill urged North Korea to call in the UN International Atomic
Energy Agency immediately to show its commitment to the deadline.


"That would certainly be an indication that they are getting
ready to do what they agreed in the February agreement."


A North Korean foreign ministry official, speaking to AFP on
Friday, said that Pyongyang stood behind the nuclear deal but
would not act until it saw the money.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," said Kim
Son-gyong, deputy director of the ministry's European department.


In South Korea, analysts were divided on whether the communist
state was showing it was willing to honour its part of the six-
nation agreement.


"North Korea is likely to start taking the initial steps within
30 days after the release of the frozen funds is confirmed," said
Kim Keun-Sik, an analyst at the University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul.


"If Pyongyang sought to tear apart the deal, it would have not
invited Bill Richardson to Pyongyang," he said, in reference to
the visit this month by the New Mexico state governor, who
returned with the remains of six US soldiers killed during the
Korean War.


Richardson said he believed Pyongyang would eventually shut down
its nuclear reactor, but would likely delay the move by several
days.


"Probably they won't make the deadline, but a few days after, I
believe, they will meet their obligations," he told US National
Public Radio.


But Baek Seung-Joo, with the Korea Institute for Defence Analysis
in Seoul, said the money issue was merely a pretext for Pyongyang
to drag its feet.


"First of all, I don't think Kim Jong-Il will give up nuclear
weapons until he comes to a firm belief that his regime will
survive without atomic weapons," Baek said.

