

Two late penalties from Racing Santander's Ezequiel Garay, the
winner coming just seconds before the end of regulation time,
handed nine-man Real Madrid a 2-1 defeat on Saturday.


It was a bad night for Real in every respect.


Not only did Real's eight game unbeaten streak come to an end,
the 29-time Spanish champions squandered the chance to overtake
league leaders and bitter rivals Barcelona and go top of La Liga
for the first time in 18 months.


They also ended the game with just nine men after defenders Ivan
Helguera and Alvaro Mejia were sent off in the final minutes of
the game.


Real remain in third place, two points behind Barca and one in
arrears of second-placed Sevilla, but the leading pair now both
have a game in hand and play on Sunday.


Barca are hosts to Real Mallorca while Sevilla have a tough trip
to Valencia.


Garay, who is reported to be courted by several English
Premiership clubs, started out as the game's villain before
redeeming himself from the spot.


The Argentine made an uncharacteristic mistake after 33 minutes
and his weak clearance was easily blocked on the edge of the area
by his compatriot Gonzalo Higuain.


Higuain then found Real captain Raul Gonzalez unmarked in the
area and his low left foot shot from 10 yards slipped under the
body of Racing goalkeeper Tono Rodriguez.


Apart from some opening flourishes by Racing in the early minutes
of the game, Real were always in control of the game during the
first 45 minutes.


Raul had a good chance just before his goal, and Robinho another
just after, which could have added further goals for the visitors
before half time.


Higuain also had a great one-on-one opportunity to put the ball
past the advancing Tono just before the hour but in the end
fluffed his chance.


Things started to go wrong 18 minutes from the end when Mahamadou
Diarra's late challenge on Lionel Scaloni in the area gave Garay
the chance to make amends for his earlier error and he equalised
with a right foot shot.


Helguera was sent off for his second yellow card four minutes
before the end and then the current World Player of the Year
Fabio Cannavaro gave Racing their second penalty of the night
with a foul on Nicola Zigic.


Garay kept his cool to score and keep Racing in contention for a
place in Europe for the first time.


Mejia was sent off in injury time for a crude challenge on
Racing's former Real striker Pedro Munitis and further trouble
could await Real as Robinho harangued the referee Javier Turenzo
Alvarez after the final whistle.


Reigning champions Barcelona will face Mallorca without their
two-time World Player of the Year Ronaldinho.


The Brazilian has been suffering from a high temperature and sore
throat this week and coach Frank Rijkaard has decided not to risk
him.


"It will be interesting to see how the team reacts without
Ronaldinho. He's quite weak but he's played a lot of games and
has had very few days off," said Rijkaard at a press conference
on Saturday.


Barca striker Samuel Eto'o returns after missing last week's 1-0
loss at Real Zaragoza due to a slight muscle problem at the top
of his right leg.


Sevilla will play fifth-placed Valencia, with the 2002 and 2004
champions looking to bounce back after their dramatic loss to
Chelsea in the Champions League on Tuesday.


"We are experienced to know that we have got to pick ourselves up
straight after a loss like that," said Valencia's Spanish
defender Carlos Marchena.


"Our loss in the Champions League shouldn't effect the way we
play in the league. I think we can still win La Liga," added the
Spanish international.


Marchena's life will be made easier on Sunday by the absence of
Sevilla's Fredi Kanoute, the Spanish first division's joint
leading scorer with 19 goals.


Kanoute stayed in London after Sevilla drew 2-2 with Tottenham
Hotspur on Thursday, qualifying for the UEFA Cup semi-finals, to
get some specialist treatment on his persistent groin problem.

