

Markus Brier of Austria fired a strong   four-under-par 67 for
the third-round lead at the Volvo China Open with Australia's
Scott Hend lagging a stroke behind here on Saturday.


Brier blasted seven birdies, including three over his last three
holes, against three bogeys for a six-under-par 207 total and
holds a one-stroke lead over Hend, who shot a steady 70 at the
Shanghai Silport Golf Club.


The relentless wind that proved the talking point for the third
straight day failed to deter South African Andrew McLardy, who
fired 67 for lone third place.


Tied for fourth spot were Ireland's Graeme McDowell, who carded
his third straight 70; South African Richard Sterne, who shot a
69, and overnight leader Raphael Jacquelin of France, who had a
slow day with four bogeys for a 75.


Brier, who turned pro in 1995, was slow off the mark with a
dropped shot on the first, deemed the toughest hole.


He bounced back with two birdies on the front nine before
stumbling to a second bogey on the 10th hole. He was inching his
way to the top with two more birdies against a lone bogey before
firing home birdies on the last three holes for a narrow one
stroke lead.


"I am very pleased with my finish. The wind was in a different
direction again, which made it awkward. The first hole was tough
and I made my usual bogey there but after that I didn't hit many
bad shots," he said.


"A win here would be very nice and it would be my first win
abroad."


Hend is featuring in his maiden season on the Asian Tour where he
is presently 34th on the UBS Order of Merit.


McLardy, 33, enjoyed a good day, shooting an eagle at the par-
five eighth hole, and he will be determined to strike it right
before his planned break next month.


"My wife (Toni) is due in five weeks. I hope to finish well and
make some money as I'll be taking two months off after the birth
of my baby girl," said McLardy, who finished second at the 2007
Johannesburg Open in January which was his best result on the
European Tour.


Former winner Zhang Lian-wei of China, who is suffering from flu,
shot a 70 for joint 21st position.

