

The United States on Saturday urged North Korea to "immediately"
invite the UN nuclear watchdog to close its Yongbyon nuclear
facility as a deadline passed for the government to shutter the
plant.


The State Department warned that its patience with North Korea
was not "infinite," but nevertheless appeared to heed Beijing's
advice to allow Pyongyang time to fulfill its obligations under a
landmark six-nation accord.


North Korea must "realize fully its commitments ... by inviting
back the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) immediately to
begin shutting and sealing the Yongbyon nuclear facility," US
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement.


Saturday was the deadline for North Korea to start shutting down
its Yongbyon nuclear reactor and admit UN atomic inspectors as
required under the first deadline of the February 13 aid-for-
disarmament deal.


An IAEA invitation would "enable the other parties to follow
through with the provision of emergency energy assistance
equivalent to 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil (HFO) and move the
six-party process forward," McCormack said.


The State Department spokesman said Washington and its
negotiating partners "remain firmly committed to prompt
completion of the initial action plan and to achieving the
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula."


Progress on the disarmament agreement, reached after years of
talks, has been held up by Pyongyang's refusal to begin closing
the facility before the release of some 25 million dollars of
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to US sanctions.


The United States, China, North and South Korea, Japan and Russia
have been discussing ways to get North Korea to end its nuclear
programs since 2003. Since then, the Stalinist regime has tested
a nuclear bomb and ballistic missiles.


"We feel we need to get the IAEA in there get started on the
process of shutting it down and sealing it," a State Department
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told reporters in a
briefing.


"Obviously we are concerned that the 60 days has passed," she
said.


"It is going to take us a few more days to get to where we wanted
to be today," she said. "Clearly the onus is now on Pyongyang to
bring in the IAEA and start shutting down Yongbyon."


The official acknowledged China's calls for patience during US
envoy Christopher Hill's visit to Beijing this weekend and said
there would be "close consultations over the next few days" with
other parties to the six-nation deal.


"What Chris has heard is that the Chinese think, with a little
bit of patience and coordination ... that this is still doable,"
she said.


"Our patience is not in infinite supply but given the kind of
complexities that did arise with some of the banking issues, it
is probably prudent to give this a few more days to see if the
statement of February 13 is something they are going to follow
through on."


Hill earlier in the day had lamented a "lack of momentum" and
urged North Korea to call in UN nuclear inspectors immediately or
face a joint response from the other parties to the talks for
failing to uphold its part in the agreement.


The State Department official added that Washington was willing
to accommodate delays over the next few days, which she said
could be related to the weekend and birthday celebrations for
North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il's late father Kim Il-Sung, who
was born April 15, 1912.


"We are not interested in negotiating a new deadline," she said.
"What we are going to focus on now is getting it done as quickly
as we possibly can."

