

The New South Wales Waratahs defeated arch-rivals the Queensland
Reds 26-13 here Saturday in a battle between the worst two teams
in the Super 14 rugby competition.


The Waratahs scored two tries to one to outlast the visiting
Queenslanders and almost certainly consign the Reds to the wooden
spoon for the second year in a row.


But judging by the efforts of both teams, Australia's chances of
winning the World Cup later this year seem very slim at best with
the two traditional powerhouses of Australian rugby struggling to
do even the simplest things well.


Queensland captain John Roe could not find any positives to take
from the match.


"It was a very important game for Queensland -- the interstate
rivalry is not a joke for us," Roe said.


"We're tremendously disappointed we lost that. We've just got to
go home and work on it. We've got to fester (on that result) for
the next 365 days now."


During the first half the two sides showed the crowd of more than
25,000 just why they are last and second last in the Super 14
table.


In a half riddled with mistakes and poor execution in nearly
every aspect of the game, neither outfit looked likely to score.


Queensland had 70 per cent of possession in the first 40 minutes
but did not once break the NSW line, with their ultra-
conservative style of rugby not making any impression.


The Waratahs were almost as bad and it looked as though the only
points in the half would come from the boots of NSW's Peter
Hewat, with three penalties, and Queensland's Clinton
Schifcofske, with two.


But two minutes before the break, NSW broke down the left side
with centre Ben Jacobs pulled down by a desperate Andrew Walker
only 10 metres out.


From the resulting ruck Waratahs scrumhalf Josh Valentine darted
down the sideline to score in the corner.


Hewat converted to send the home side into the break leading
16-6.


The Waratahs went further ahead just after the break with another
Hewat penalty but Queensland struck back when flyhalf Berrick
Barnes put a delightful chip kick through, which Schifcofske
collected before diving over under the posts.


The Reds began to play with greater purpose and the match was in
the balance until 10 minutes before fulltime, when NSW
replacement Wycliff Palu scooped up a loose Queensland lineout
throw on the Reds' 22 and put fellow flanker Beau Robinson over
to seal the match.

