

French authorities were on Saturday analysing a video obtained by
a Canadian television network showing two French nationals taken
hostage in Afghanistan, France's foreign minister said.


"We remain completely mobilised in Paris and in Afghanistan to
obtain the release of the members of the group," minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy said in a statement. "More than ever, our
objective is to bring them back safe and sound."


Douste-Blazy confirmed the two kidnapped French nationals appear
in the video, as well as three Afghans who were abducted with
them. Paris says it has not received any demands from the
kidnappers.


CBC public television reported late Friday that it had obtained a
video of two French aid workers taken hostage in Afghanistan, in
which they say they fear their lives may soon end.


It did not explain how it obtained the video, which gives the
first glimpse of the kidnap victims since their abduction more
than a week ago.


According to the network, the pictures show a young woman saying
in a weak voice that she was a French volunteer worker kidnapped
by the Taliban 10 days ago. The images then show a man who says
his name is Eric.


Both the man and the woman make appeals for saving their lives,
the report said.


The video also shows three Afghan men, blindfolded and shackled,
who were the translators and driver with the French pair when
they were taken.


At the end of the video, a glimpse can be seen of the heavily
armed Taliban kidnappers.


The French aid workers, from the non-governmental organisation
Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children), went missing on April
3 in the southwestern province of Nimroz.


The Islamist Taliban militia say they are holding the pair, along
with three of their Afghan colleagues.


Concerns over the safety of the hostages mounted since the
Taliban said on Sunday that they had beheaded an Afghan reporter
whom they kidnapped with an Italian journalist a month ago in the
southern province of Helmand.


The Taliban said it executed Ajmal Naqshbandi because the
government failed to meet their demand to free rebel prisoners.
However, Italian reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed in a
hostage deal that saw five militants released from Afghan jails.


Afghan President Hamid Karzai was criticised both within and
outside Afghanistan for his controversial deal and has said that
his government will not repeat the hostage trade with the
Taliban.


French President Jacques Chirac has called Karzai to demand his
support for efforts to free the French aid workers.


The rebels have also been holding five Afghan medics since
kidnapping them in southern Kandahar province on March 27. The
rebels on Monday threatened to kill at least one of the doctors
unless the government enters talks.

