

Royal commentators were shocked Saturday by Prince William's
reported break-up with Kate Middleton, his girlfriend of four
years.


The split left many wondering whether anyone would want to step
Diana, princess of Wales's shoes as a British queen-in-waiting.


Some suggested that the stress of a long-distance relationship
had contributed to the split as she worked in London while
William was away on army duty in the countryside .


"I had an inkling the break-up was coming, but I am still
profoundly shocked -- and upset for William and Kate," said
Arthur Edwards, the royal photographer for The Sun newspaper,
which broke the story.


"These two terrific young people had the makings of a wonderful
king and queen.


"But William privately admitted to me that he didn't plan to get
married until he was at least 28 -- and I guess that was a clue
he wasn't ready to settle down at all."


Following the break-up of his parents' marriage, "I guess that
once any doubt about his long-term future with Kate entered his
head, he just wasn't prepared to take a chance."


Veteran royal watcher James Whittaker told BBC television: "I
think quite simply Prince William has fallen out of love.


"I think if you've been that long with somebody, you know whether
you want to marry them or not, and he clearly didn't in the end.


"I think she wanted marriage a lot more than he did.


"I think it was the same problem as Princess Diana had. I think
she semi-loved her husband. I thought she was more in love with
being the princess of Wales than she was with Prince Charles.


"It's incredibly hard. I don't think there's a woman in the world
who is really bred and fit to become his wife.


"Can you imagine what it's like to be the wife of the king?


"It's an impossible situation for any woman to fit into. The only
people who do make it are princesses. They understand how it all
works.


"But nearly every princess is Roman Catholic and Prince William
cannot marry a Roman Catholic and keep his line of succession."


Max Clifford, probably Britain's top publicist, said Middleton
had the "biggest kiss-and-tell in history" if she decided to sell
her story.


"I'm sure she wouldn't even dream of doing it," he told BBC
television.


"I've already had contacts from various national newspapers
saying, 'If she comes to you, tell us'."


William has been out boozing with army pals on days off rather
than returning to London to see Middleton.


"I think it's become increasingly obvious in recent months that
he wants to be out and about enjoying himself," Clifford said.


He speculated that the prince may have already found a new flame.


"My instinct tells me that there is somebody else in the
background," he said.


Judy Wade, royal correspondent for Hello! magazine, said she was
"absolutely shocked" by the split.


"So recently we've seen them looking so happy together," she
said.


"I think Kate's been living in limbo, neither royal nor commoner
any longer.


"William could have solved her problems by marrying her or
announcing their engagement. She thought, 'either marry me or I'm
off.'


She said William was "just not ready" for marriage, but added:
"Let's not rule out a reconciliation when he realises what he has
lost."


"She will be better off with some rich unknown gentleman living
in the country."


Ingrid Seward, editor-in-chief of Majesty magazine, said
Middleton was well- liked in royal circles.


But the young couple had probably "got to a stage in their
relationship where they couldn't go forwards.


"They were almost a married couple when they were together at
university. Since then it's been a lot of aggravation and it's
been very hard for them to move on.


"I would think it's probably because William just thought, 'I
don't want to get married and this simply isn't fair for you'.
I'm sure he's very sad."

