

An Afghan provincial governor said Saturday that an "intensive"
search had so far failed to find any trace of two French hostages
and their three local assistants kidnapped nearly two weeks ago.


Governor of southwestern Nimroz province Gullam Dastgir Azad told
AFP that search teams were continuing their efforts to locate the
abductees.


"Despite a very intensive search we have not been able so far...
to locate the French hostages," Azad said.


The French aid workers -- a man and a woman -- from the non-
governmental organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our
Children) went missing on April 3, along with three Afghans, in
Nimroz.


Fears mounted for the safety of the pair after the Taliban last
week beheaded an Afghan reporter they had kidnapped last month.


The Afghan statement came after Canadian television aired footage
on Friday in which the pair said they feared their lives may soon
end.


CBC television did not explain how it obtained the video and said
it had decided to broadcast only still images.


The network said the pictures had provided the first evidence the
captives were still alive.


According to the network, the pictures show a young woman saying
in a weak voice that she was a French volunteer worker kidnapped
by the Taliban 10 days ago. The images then show a man who says
his name is Eric.


Both the man and the woman make appeals for their lives to be
saved, the report said.


The video also shows three Afghan men, blindfolded and shackled.
They are the translators and driver who were with the French pair
when they were taken.


At the end of the video, a glimpse can be seen of the heavily
armed militants.


French authorities were on Saturday analysing the video, France's
foreign minister said.


"We remain completely mobilised in Paris and in Afghanistan to
obtain the release of the members of the group," minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy said in a statement. "More than ever, our
objective is to bring them back safe and sound."


French President Jacques Chirac called Karzai Thursday night to
demand his support for efforts to free the French aid workers.
Karzai assured his French counterpart of his support.

