

Manchester United secured a place in the FA Cup final and kept
their treble challenge on track with a 4-1 rout of Watford in the
semi-finals on Saturday.


Ferguson's perfect record both at Villa Park and in semi-finals
with United remained intact at a canter after Wayne Rooney's two
goals and strikes from Cristiano Ronaldo and Kieran Richardson
ended Watford's dream.


It was nothing to compare with the stunning thrashing of Italians
Roma in their midweek Champions League encounter but it was still
another step towards Ferguson emulating his achievements of 1999
with triumphs in Europe, the Premiership and FA Cup.


Watford had looked energised away from their difficult struggles
in the league campaign and their first half equaliser by Hameur
Bouazza, together with an impressive start to the second period,
had served to create a more interesting tie than many had
expected.


But once Rooney had swept in United's third, Ferguson was
planning his return to Wembley for the first final staged there
since 2000, with either Blackburn or Chelsea - who play on Sunday
- the opponents that must attempt to halt the Old Trafford
juggernaught.


Ferguson was adamant that United had produced the finest evening
at Old Trafford in their illustrious history in the incredible
defeat of Roma in the Champions League.


And they extended their scintillating week in the seventh minute
with another spectacular goal. Rooney seized upon fatal hesitancy
from the Watford defence to sidestep Adrian Mariappa and hammer
an unstoppable shot into the top corner.


It looked as if another rout was likely, with Alan Smith nearly
creating a second for Rooney shortly after.


But Watford, whose Premiership existence will be confirmed as
over within the next few weeks, seemed to be less anxious without
the necessity for league points at stake and were not as over-
awed as the neutrals had feared.


A sustained period of steady pressure nearly resulted in a shock
equaliser, with Bouazza - the scorer of the winner against
Plymouth in the previous round - nearly catching out Edwin van
Der Sar with a long-range effort.


But the Algerian international did surprise United in the 26th
minute - with another dazzling finish. Gavin Mahon's long throw
was not adequately dealt with by the United defence and the
striker hooked a spectacular overhead kick in off the crossbar.


However, the equaliser inevitably acted as an irritant to
Ferguson's men and they were ahead again barely two minutes
later. Rooney broke clear down the right and presented Ronaldo
with the simplest of tasks with a finish from two yards out.


Portuguese international winger Ronaldo cannot have envisaged a
more impressive week, coming days after his one-man demolition of
Roma and signing a new 120,000 pounds (240,000 dollars) a week
contract.


Damien Francis flashed a header wide for Watford but the
Premiership's bottom club needed goalkeeper Richard Lee, a
boyhood United fan, to expertly repel a Rooney shot over the
crossbar from close-range just before half-time.


Watford, to their credit, looked more determined after the break
with van der Sar needing to be alert to keep Bouazza's deep cross
from finding the corner.


But Rooney's second, in the 66th minute, ended the Hornets'
adventure for another year as he tapped in Smith's pass.
Substitute Richardson added a clever fourth late on, advancing to
chip Lee, with Smith the creator once again.

