

Northern Bulls overwhelmed Western Stormers 49-12 in a South
African derby Saturday to keep alive their hopes of a Super 14
semi-finals place.


The seven-try triumph before a capacity 45,000 crowd in the
Highveld city drew the Bulls level on 27 points with the Waikato
Chiefs of New Zealand and former champions ACT Brumbies of
Australia.


And the trio are virtually level on points difference as well
with Chiefs, boosted by 64 points against Western Force of
Australia earlier Saturday, plus 33 and the Bulls and Brumbies
plus 31 each.


Defending champions Canterbury Crusaders lead fellow New
Zealanders Auckland Blues on points difference having amassed 37
points each with surprise packets Coastal Sharks of South Africa
three points adrift.


Bulls' remaining three fixtures are all in South Africa with a
60-kilometre journey south to Johannesburg next weekend for a
local derby against the Golden Lions preceding home games against
the Blues and Queensland Reds of Australia.


The struggling Cape Town-based Stormers must hate the sight of
the blue-shirted Bulls having conceded 167 points in the last
three Super clashes, including a 75-14 drubbing in Pretoria two
years ago.


Bulls forwards scored five of the seven tries with flanker Wikus
van Heerden claiming two and lock Bakkies Botha, hooker Gary
Botha and replacement flanker Pedrie Wannenburg one each on a
warm, cloudless afternoon.


Centre Wynand Olivier and substitute scrum-half Heini Adams also
crossed and the victory margin would have been higher had fly-
half Derick Hougaard not been below form.


Hougaard kicked two conversions and two penalties, but missed
another three shots at goal and it was left to his replacement,
Morne Steyn, to complete the large tally by converting two late
tries.


Wing Brent Russell and his replacement, Dylan Des Fountain, went
over for Stormers tries and fly-half Peter Grant converted the
first before failing with several kickable attempts at the posts.


As usual, the Bulls laid their victory foundations up front,
using a 55-kilogram weight advantage to good effect as they
controlled every aspect   of forward play.


And when the Stormers were subdued midway through the second
half, the Bulls opened up, running the ball at every opportunity
against opponents who longed for the final whistle well before
South African Marius Jonker blew it.


Even when the hooter sounded to signal full-time there was
further misery in store for the Stormers as substitute scrum-half
JP Joubert failed to control the ball from a scrum and Adams
snatched the cheekiest of tries.


It had appeared so much rosier for the Stormers in the early
stages as Russell burst through for a fourth-minute try to give
the visitors a 7-3 advantage.


However, the blond former Springbok retired injured soon after
and once man mountain Bakkies Botha stormed over after 17 minutes
to regain the lead for the Bulls only one team looked like
winning.

