

Aston Villa effectively guaranteed their Premiership survival as
they fought back to win 3-1 at Middlesbrough on Saturday.


Martin O'Neill's side moved on to 42 points and can look forward
to another season in English football's top division after
extending their unbeaten run to five matches.


Villa had fallen behind to Fabio Rochemback's free-kick, but
Craig Gardner equalised before the break and Luke Moore and
Stilian Petrov struck in the second half to seal the victory.


The vistors had started brightly and should have been in front
after just four minutes. Gabriel Agbonlahor tricked Robert Huth
to give himself a sight of goal but could only shoot weakly at
Mark Schwarzer.


Agbonlahor turned provider seconds later when his cross picked
out strike partner Shaun Maloney, who shot wide from close range.


O'Neill's men had another opportunity to break the deadlock in
the ninth minute when Maloney drew a fine block from Australia
keeper Schwarzer.


Those misses came back to haunt Villa as Middlesbrough were
gifted the lead in the 13th minute.


Rochemback's 30-yard free-kick should have been dealt with by
Thomas Sorsensen, but the Villa keeper allowed the ball to spill
out of his grasp and into the net.


Malcolm Christie went close for the hosts when he broke into the
area and lifted a delicate chip just over the crossbar.


A superb run by Nigeria striker Yakubu created an opening for
Adam Johnson, but the Middlesbrough midfielder's curling effort
dipped wide of the far post.


But Villa snatched an equaliser on the stroke of half time when
Agbonlahor surged down the wing and slipped a pass to Gardner,
who drove in his first goal for the club from close range.


Middlesbrough manager Gareth Southgate had spent several years at
Villa Park, but he didn't enjoy the latest reunion with his
former club.


Villa took the lead when Rochemback was penalised for a foul on
Ashley Young. The forward picked himself up to send in a free-
kick that Olof Mellberg headed down to Moore and he finished well
for his first goal since September.


Petrov completed Villa's comeback when he collected Gareth
Barry's pass before driving a low shot into the bottom corner.

