

The Indian army said on Saturday it had inflicted heavy damage on
a key separatist group in the restive northeast since the start
of an offensive in September.


The army had killed at least 48 guerrillas of the outlawed United
Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) in the state of Assam, cut key
supply lines and jammed communications, Lieutenant Colonel
Narender Singh told AFP.


"ULFA has suffered heavy casualties in the ongoing operations,
losing 48 rebels in separate encounters since September with as
many as 14 of them gunned down in the past two weeks alone,"
Singh said.


"ULFA is on the run and their backbone is almost broken with
continuous pressure from our troops. We have broken their
communication signals with the ULFA in total disarray now," Singh
said.


There was no immediate comment from ULFA, one of many rebel
groups active in India's northeast.


ULFA, which has been fighting for an independent Assamese
homeland since 1979, was blamed for a string of attacks in
January in which 80 people died, 61 of them Hindi-speaking
migrant workers.


The military offensive began in September after New Delhi called
off a six-week ceasefire with ULFA, blaming it for a wave of
attacks.


At least 64 ULFA rebels have been caught and 32 have surrendered
since the start of the offensive, Singh said.


"Supply lines of ULFA for carrying rations, medicines and weapons
have been literally blocked with continuous patrol" by the army,
Singh said.


Intelligence reports have said ULFA has shifted its base from
Assam to jungles in adjoining Arunachal Pradesh and that some
fighters crossed into neighbouring Myanmar after the army
offensive.


Last month ULFA rejected a talks offer from the Assam government
and warned it would step up violence.


ULFA said direct talks would be possible only if New Delhi agreed
to discuss its core demand of independence and released five
jailed leaders.


More than 10,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in
Assam during the past two decades.

