

Two suicide bombers blew themselves up outside a US cultural
centre in Casablanca on Saturday, just days after similar attacks
in the Moroccan port city.


The blasts came at the end of a week that suicide bombers also
targeted neighbouring Algeria, including one attack on the prime
minister's office in Algiers that had experts warning of a
resurgence in militant activity in the region.


Saturday's attacks also coincided with a warning from the US
embassy in Algiers that militants were planning further
explosions at key locations including Algerian state television
and the capital's central post office.


Moroccan security forces said Saturday's blasts occurred shortly
after two men approached a policeman manning a checkpoint 100
meters (yards) from the Dar America cultural centre in
Casablanca.


One asked for access to the building, but when asked for a
reason, he and the other bomber set off their explosives,
security officials said.


A woman passer-by was also injured in the blasts.


Other witnesses said that one of the men approached the US
consulate, the other the cultural centre and blew themselves up
one minute apart. Police are reportedly seeking a third man who
was with the two suicide bombers.


On Wednesday, Moroccan police said they were hunting for some 10
possible suicide bombers, a day after three blew themselves up in
Casablanca as they were pursued by police.


A police official said Saturday's incident was "a desperate act
in response to the successful crackdown in recent weeks by the
police and security services to dismantle terrorist cells".


One of the trio who killed themselves on Tuesday was the brother
of a man who died in a March 11 explosion at a Casablanca
Internet cafe that sparked the latest police operation.


Saturday's blasts follow suicide bomb attacks at two locations in
the capital of Algeria on Wednesday, killing 33 people and
injuring more than 220.


The attacks were claimed by a group calling itself Al-Qaeda's
North Africa branch. One of the blasts tore the facade off the
prime ministers' office in the city centre in what was seen as a
defiant message to the government.


International terrorist expert Magnus Ranstorp, at the Swedish
National Defence College, said earlier this week that the attacks
in Algeria and Morocco were likely a backlash against a crackdown
in the two countries on militants.


He said that after the authorities in Morocco and Algeria seemed
to have "broken the back of the Islamist terrorist networks"
these "two fronts have been re- energised, revitalised."


Part of the explanation could be, he said, "the severity of the
crackdowns. That is what we are seeing today essentially: a sort
of reaction to these offensives."


The US embassy warning on Saturday said that militants may be
planning more attacks in the centre of Algiers.


"According to unconfirmed information, there may be attacks in
Algiers planned for April 14, 2007 in areas that may include the
Algiers Central Post Office ... and Algerian State Television
Headquarters, ENTV.., among others," an embassy statement said.


Casablanca was hit by suicide attacks in May 2003, which killed
45 people including the 12 bombers.


In the 1990s Algeria was torn apart by violence as a result of a
vicious civil conflit between Islamic militants and the military
that was sparked after the authorities annulled an election that
won by an Islamist group.

