

Finance chiefs from the G7 industrialized countries have endorsed
nuclear energy, an increasingly attractive power source as
governments confront global warming and over-dependence on fossil
fuels.


The Group of Seven, following a meeting here Friday, described
energy diversification as an important priority for both rich and
poor nations.


"Diversification can include advanced energy technologies such as
renewable, nuclear and clean coal," said the ministers and
central bank governors from Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States.


The group at previous meetings had been unable to agree on a text
citing nuclear power, notably in the face of opposition from
Germany.


But a steady rise in oil prices, from less than 30 dollars a
barrel in April 2003 to nearly 80 dollars last year, as well as
increased energy nationalism in producers such as Russia,
Venezuela and Iran have managed to change minds.


France, which has long advocated the adoption of an international
nuclear power program as a "clean" alternative to fossil fuels,
hailed the G7's latest initiative.


French Finance Minister Thierry Breton said he had put "a lot of
energy" into getting the G7 to include "nuclear" among potential
alternative power sources.


"It wasn't my first attempt but it was the first time it was
unanimously accepted," he said.


France gets 78 percent of its electricity production from nuclear
sources, against an average of just 16 percent worldwide and 32
percent in Europe, and is home to several major nuclear energy
companies, such as Areva.


Nuclear advocates had already gained some ground with a recent
resolution adopted by the European Union calling for a reduction
in greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 levels by 20 percent
between now and 2020.


The resolution, adopted by EU leaders at a summit last month,
mentioned nuclear power as a legitimate means of meeting the
reduction target.


US President George W. Bush in his State of the Union address in
January also referred to nuclear energy as a way of diversifying
US electricity supply.


But in the United States, where no nuclear plant has been built
in the past 30 years, and where oil and coal remain the principal
power sources, big energy companies have been reluctant to
invest.


They are seeking legal and financial support from the government
before going ahead with nuclear projects, which they see as
largely governed by political and environmental -- rather than
purely economic -- considerations.

