

Brazilian Felipe Massa soared to pole position here on Saturday
qualifying for Ferrari ahead of Sunday's Bahrain Grand Prix as
British rookie Lewis Hamilton again impressed in his fledgling
Formula One career.


Massa, dejected after finishing fifth despite qualifying on pole
for the race in Malaysia last Sunday, took top spot on the grid
for the fifth time in his career with a best time of one minute
32.656 seconds.


But 22-year-old Hamilton - who was cheered on by his younger
brother Nicolas, who has cerebral palsy, at trackside for the
first time - will start on the front row for the first time in
only his third race after finishing second some three tenths of a
second behind Massa in his McLaren Mercedes-Benz.


Hamilton will bid to become the first man in Formula One history
to finish on the podium in his first three races after finishing
third and second in his two previous outings.


Finland's Kimi Raikkonen was third fastest in the other Ferrari
with double world drivers champion Fernando Alonso out-qualified
by team-mate Hamilton for the first time after finishing fourth
half-a-second slower than Massa.


Germany's Nick Heidfeld will start fifth just ahead of BMW team-
mate Poland's Robert Kubica.


Britain's Anthony Davidson was the big surprise of the first
qualifying session when he posted the seventh fastest time in his
Super Aguri as countryman David Coulthard bowed out with gearbox
trouble.


Coulthard was back in 21st spot failing to progress to the second
session for the second time in three qualifying rounds this
season as Australian team-mate Mark Webber again showed his pace
over one lap.


Davidson, whose more experienced team-mate Takuma Sato qualified
17th, was unable to repeat the feat in the next stage of
qualifying as he finished in 13th spot.


Davidson's fellow Honda-powered drivers Rubens Barrichello and
Jenson Button also failed to progress to the final qualifying
stage after finishing 15th and 16th fastest respectively.


It was also an unhappy session for Germany's Toyota driver Ralf
Schumacher who failed to make the top 10 shoot-out with the 14th
fastest time.


Giancarlo Fisichella showed improved form to take seventh for
Renault but his rookie teammate Finn Heikki Kovalainen and
Williams' Austrian driver Alex Wurz both lost out in the
extremely tight battle to reach the top ten.


They were 0.1 and 0.046 seconds respectively slower than
teammates German Nico Rosberg and Fisichella in the second
qualifying stage, and therefore missed the cut.

