

IMF policymakers sought to breathe new life Saturday into a
reform drive at the 60-year-old IMF at a time when their sister
institution, the World Bank, is reeling from a scandal that could
bring down its president, Paul Wolfowitz.


As the International Monetary Fund steering committee,
representing the Fund's 185 members, opened a twice-yearly
meeting, the attention of the financial world remained riveted on
the fate of Wolfowitz.


After a tempestuous two-year tenure at the Washington-based
development lender, Wolfowitz is under siege from bank staffers
and advocacy groups who want him to resign.


He stands accused of helping engineer a massive pay hike for his
Libyan-born girlfriend, former World Bank communications
specialist Shaha Riza, when she was transferred to the US State
Department in 2005.


Wolfowitz has admitted to mistakes in the procedure under which
the pay package was approved and has received a vote of
confidence from President George W. Bush, for whom as a deputy
defense secretary he helped plan the Iraq war.


But he still faces an open revolt from outraged World Bank
employees pressing for his departure.


Bank policymakers are due to convene here Sunday, after which
Wolfowitz is scheduled to address a press conference alongside
IMF counterpart Rodrigo de Rato.


The weekend meetings of the Fund and the Bank were preceded
Friday by a gathering of Group of Seven finance chiefs, who threw
weight Friday behind an ongoing -- and contested -- reform
campaign aimed at preserving the "relevance and legitimacy" of
the IMF.


They said the overhaul, the first stage of which was approved by
the IMF at a meeting in Singapore last September, should ensure
that dynamic emerging market economies are better represented.


The Fund in September agreed to increase the voting power in the
IMF of China, South Korea, Turkey and Mexico as a first step.


The G7 officials, representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States, in addition stressed that
"the voice of low income countries should be enhanced" as well.


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Saturday used stronger
language, urging the IMF to "re-invent itself" by enhancing the
stature of emerging market and poor countries alike and by
firming up its exchange rate surveillance.


Under US and European domination since its creation at the end of
World War II, the IMF has traditionally been a lender of last
resort to countries struggling financially.


But 10 years after crisis swept through east Asian economies, the
Fund is seen as barely relevant to dynamic powers like China.


Talk of an Asian monetary fund has revived, while Latin American
countries are moving ahead with their own multilateral lending
initiative.


In addition countries such as Argentina and Brazil have been
paying off their IMF debts early, eager to escape the Washington
institution's economic tutelage.


"The IMF's governance structure needs to be overhauled," Paulson
argued. "The Fund no longer looks like the world economy in which
we live ..."


Rato, the IMF chief, has acknowledged that his far-reaching
reform measures have met resistance among richer Fund members
reluctant to see their clout diminished.


Paulson however said Washington "continues to support protecting
the shares of the poorest countries through an increase in basic
votes and repeated his government's willingness to forgo an
additional quota due the United States.


He also re-asserted US insistence that the IMF take a more
muscular approach to currency volatility.


"Let us be clear: exercising firm surveillance over members'
exchange rate policies is the core function of the institution,"
he said.


"For us, reform of the IMF's foreign exchange surveillance is the
lynchpin on which other reforms depend, and we look forward to
action in this important area very soon..."


The US demand for vigorous IMF action reflects Bush
administration frustration with what it sees as China's
reluctance to allow greater flexibility for the yuan, which
according to the United States is unfairly undervalued.


The relatively weak Chinese currency, according to the US
argument, makes Chinese goods more attractive on US markets and
threatens jobs held by American workers.


The eurozone too has deep currency concerns, most of which center
on a sliding Japanese yen, seen by eurozone planners as a threat
to exports and ultimately economic growth.

