

Nigerians voted Saturday in elections for  governors and
legislators in 36 states, with security forces on high alert and
violence reported in the oil-rich south of the country.


Major parties see the polls as an indicator of their chances in
the April 21 election of a successor to President Olusegun
Obasanjo, who is ending his second four-year term.


The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) controls 28 states and
a top party official predicted the PDP would win more this time,
including Lagos state, which has been controlled by an opposition
party since 1999.


The presidential vote is expected to lead to the country's first
civilian-to- civilian handover since independence from Britain in
1960.


In the commercial capital Lagos Saturday, where the streets and
freeways were abnormally quiet, the military was out in full
force manning checkpoints at key road junctions. They were
searching all vehicles and checking the identity of their
occupants.


Many polling stations in different parts of the country opened
late.


By midday however voting was well underway in most places, with
the exception of some parts of two southern oil states -- Rivers
and Delta.


In Port Harcourt, the capital of Rivers, two police stations were
burned down overnight and seven policemen killed by assailants
who arrived shouting "We are the Niger Delta youths. Come and do
the elections now!".


A supporter of local militant leader Ateke Tom said his group,
the Niger Delta Vigilantes, carried out the two attacks.


In some parts of Rivers polling eventually started in late
morning. In other parts of the state people were still not voting
by afternoon.


In Okrika, a fief of Ateke Tom south of Port Harcourt, large
numbers of people complained of voting materials being delivered
late and of their subsequent confiscation by officials from the
ruling party.


At Bodo community in the Ogoni region of Rivers AFP journalists
reported seeing two electoral agents stuffing ballot boxes with
pre-stamped papers in favour of the ruling party candidate.


Government officials also reported at least two dead and one
wounded in violence in Yenagoa, the capital of neighbouring
Bayelsa State, but details were not immediately available.


In Warri, another oil town, voting in some parts of town had
still not begun by early afternoon and residents spoke of large
gangs of youths fighting the military.


Southern Nigeria's oil-producing region has been the theatre of
violence, ranging from gang warfare to kidnappings of oil
workers, for the past several years.


European Union observers monitoring the poll are not deploying to
the three main states of the delta, Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta for
security reasons.


The northern commercial capital of Kano was calm although some
polling stations opened very late.


A radical Muslim cleric was killed in Kano on Friday. Residents
also reported a heavy military presence and numerous checkpoints.
Officials however said the cleric's killing was motivated by
religious rather than political interests.


In another northern State, Katsina, an angry mob of opposition
supporters burned down a local government secretariat in Dandume
town, convinced that the non- arrival of voting materials was an
attempt by the ruling party to rig elections, officials said.


While the military manned the roads, police were deployed at
polling stations throughout the country.


In Lagos the situation was calm and the local police chief Bashir
Azeez said no arrests had been made so far.


Some Lagos governorship candidates had just their logo, not their
photograph on the ballot sheets.


Maurice Iwu, the overall boss of the electoral agency, dismissed
this as being the fault of the candidates in question who had not
submitted photos.


The Nigerian government ordered the closure of its land and sea
borders for 12 hours on Saturday to "ensure a hitch-free
electoral process", an interior ministry statement said.


Nigeria has land borders with Benin, Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

