

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz Saturday braced for an annual
meeting of the 185-member development lender tainted by scandal
and under pressure to resign.


The former US deputy defense secretary continued to enjoy crucial
backing from the White House over a controversy about hefty pay
hikes that he personally ordered for his Libyan-born girlfriend,
Shaha Riza, at the bank.


But other governments have been, at best, non-committal as the
World Bank's board of executive directors decides what to do
about Wolfowitz nearly two years into his controversial tenure.


Fevered speculation surrounded the board's intentions heading
into Sunday's spring meeting of the bank's development committee,
its top policy body of members' ministers, held jointly with the
International Monetary Fund.


After a meeting of Group of Seven (G7) finance ministers here
late Friday, French minister Thierry Breton refused to say
whether Wolfowitz should go but stressed the World Bank should be
"ethically irreproachable."


"We'll have to see if Wolfowitz will be able to retain the moral
authority necessary to fulfill his duties," Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido Mantega said in Washington.


After the G7 meeting, US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson
expressed his "very high regard" for Wolfowitz.


Paulson declined to comment in detail pending more information
from the board's review of Wolfowitz's involvement in awarding
Riza a pay deal worth nearly 200,000 dollars when she was
reassigned to the US State Department.


"But let me add though that this should not call into question or
be read as any lessening of US support for Paul Wolfowitz," he
said.


Riza stayed on the World Bank payroll during her external
assignment from its Middle East arm to the State Department,
which was designed to prevent conflicts of interest after
Wolfowitz took charge of the bank in June 2005.


Wolfowitz first claimed that he had nothing to do with the
generous terms of the assignment, then admitted his involvement
but said he acted in part to prevent the bank from the risk of a
compensation lawsuit from Riza.


However, his defense was further eroded Saturday by comments from
the World Bank's then top legal officer, Roberto Danino.


"I advised the board committee that I did not see any grounds for
a successful lawsuit," he told the Financial Times.


The controversy has erupted at the worst time for Wolfowitz when
he is battling to overcome resistance to his flagship campaign
against corruption in the World Bank's 24-billion-dollar annual
lending.


It could also undermine his efforts to replenish the bank's
depleted lending budget by raising up to 25 billion dollars in
new funds from its richer members.


The World Bank staff association says Wolfowitz has "destroyed"
the trust of the lender's 10,000 employees and should "act
honorably and resign."


"With a normal bank, Wolfowitz's actions and the ensuing staff
revolt could have triggered a bank run," said Amy Gray of the
campaign group ActionAid.


"The board must act quickly if it wants to restore confidence in
this institution," she said.


While the World Bank board has the power to fire a president for
grave misconduct, in practice the lender's chief is a US
political appointee and his fate would be decided by governments,
notably in Washington and in Europe.


Wolfowitz does have his supporters, having devoted much effort to
cajoling rich countries to give more development funding to
Africa.


"We have seen visionary leadership, steadfast progress under Mr
Wolfowitz in terms of what the bank does in countries like ours,
and we can only say that we look forward to that continuing,"
Liberian Finance Minister Antoinette Sayeh said.

