

Striker Kevin Kuranyi helped Schalke 04 open a four-point gap at
the top of the Bundesliga after their 3-0 win at Mainz 05 on
Saturday as Stuttgart moved up into second.


The 25-year-old German international fired Schalke into a 1-0
lead with his 10th minute goal, before his header gifted fellow
striker Gerald Asamoah to nod the ball home and put the leaders
2-0 up after 34 minutes.


And Brazilian midfielder Lincoln put the result beyond doubt with
a superb strike from 30-metres out on 71 minutes to make it 3-0.


With Werder Bremen taking on Borussia Dortmund on Sunday, VfB
Stuttgart seized the chance to leapfrog their rivals into second
with a 2-1 win over Hanover.


Stuttgart got off to the best possible start. Midfielder Roberto
Hilbert struck after just two minutes before Hanover's USA
defender Steven Cherundolo looked to have ruined the hosts party
with his 61st minute goal.


But Polish defender Dariusz Zuraw's popped up with a 76th minute
fortuitous winner, but not before some late drama when defender
Arthur Boka was sent off in the 84th minute for a heavy
challenge.


Hertha Berlin enjoyed their first win for nine games with a 3-1
win at VfL Bochum.


The Bundesliga's top-scorer Greek striker Theofanis Gekas bagged
his 17th goal of the season in the first minute, but Berlin - who
replaced their coach Falko Goetz with Karsten Heine in midweek -
launched a second-half fight back.


First striker Christian Gimenez scored in the 58th minute, then
Brazilian midfielder Gilberto put them ahead on 66 minutes,
before substitute striker Chinedu Ede's left-footed strike in the
90th minute sealed the win.


There was a six-goal thriller in the relegation battle at Arminia
Bielefeld as Eintracht Frankfurt ran out 4-2 winners.


Greek striker Ioannis Amanatidis gave Frankfurt an early lead,
only for Bielefeld's Radim Kucera to equalise on 28 mins.


But the guests took a 2-1 half-time lead when defender Aleksandar
Vasoski headed his side into the lead from a free-kick five
minutes later.


And Amanatidis scored a penalty two minutes into the second-half
to make it 3-1 before Bielefeld's substitute striker Christian
Eigler scored with a header in the 81st minute to make it 3-2.


But Marcel Heller's left-footed shot in the second minute of
injury time put the result beyond doubt for Frankfurt.


Energie Cottbus are up to seventh - two places away from a UEFA
Cup berth - with a 3-2 home win over VfL Wolfsburg.


After striker Sergiu Radu gave them a 1-0 half-time lead with his
20th minute strike, Cottbus hit their guests with a lightening
strike to go 3-0 ahead.


Romanian midfielder Vlad Munteanu hit the back of the net in the
56th minute, only for Cameron striker Francis Kioyo to score less
than 60 seconds later, before Wolfsburg's Isaac Boakye and
Cedrick Makiadi grabbed late consolation goals.


Nuremburg stay fifth thanks to their 1-0 win at home to Alemannia
Aachen.


On Sunday, Werder Bremen have the chance to re-claim second place
at relegation- threatened Borussia Dortmund, while fourth-placed
Bayern Munich are at Bayern Leverkusen.


And on Friday night, bottom-side Borussia Moenchengladbach
suffered a 90th minute heart-break when Hamburg's Peruvian
striker Jose Paolo Guerrero scored to give his side a 1-0 win and
leave M'Gladbach five points from possible safety.

