

Thai security forces shot dead three unarmed Muslim boys while
suspected Islamic rebels killed three people in drive-by
shootings in the country's restive south, police said Saturday.


The shootings in the Muslim-majority south came as mainly
Buddhist Thailand was on high alert against possible terror
attacks during the five-day Buddhist New Year holiday, which
started on Friday.


Security forces opened fire late Friday after a group of five
Muslim boys ran towards them as they tried to extinguish a blaze
at a mobile phone base station in Pattani, one of three violence-
torn southern provinces.


While the boys were unarmed, police insisted the security forces
acted in self- defence.


Two boys, aged 13 and 14, died late Friday, and another 14-year-
old boy died at a hospital early Saturday, police said, adding
two were wounded.


"The soldiers suspected the boys were arsonists and thought they
were escaping from the scene," Colonel Acra Tiproch, an army
spokesman, said.


The killings prompted some 400 Muslims to take to the streets to
demand an official apology and the removal of the security
officers involved in the shootings.


The angry crowd then blocked the main road linking Pattani with
the neighbouring province of Narathiwat, Acra said.


The victims' parents claimed that the boys were just playing hide
and seek.


In Narathiwat province, two Muslim men, aged 26 and 29, were
gunned down by suspected Islamic militants in a drive-by shooting
while they were riding a motorcycle Saturday, police said.


Also in Narathiwat, a 19-year-old Muslim boy was shot dead late
Friday in another drive-by shooting.


As Thailand celebrated the Buddhist festival, police were
deploying an extra 40,000 officers across the country amid fears
over terror attacks during the holiday.


Apart from the insurgency-hit south, authorities were boosting
security in the Thai capital with more policemen guarding crowded
areas such as train stations, shopping malls and Bangkok's
international airport.


Bomb blasts hit Bangkok on New Year's Eve, killing three and
wounding dozens, including foreign tourists.


The Bangkok attacks were followed by a coordinated arson and
bombing spree across the Muslim-majority south at the start of
the Lunar New Year in February, which left nine dead and 44
injured.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the Thai south bordering Malaysia.


Since a September coup, Thailand's military-installed government
has launched a raft of peace measures, only to see the attacks
escalate in the past six months.

