

Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah will chair a meeting
on Saturday of the ruling Al-Sabah dynasty, a newspaper said amid
reports of new infighting within the family.


The meeting will be attended by about 200 family members aged 40
years and above to discuss "infighting among ruling family
members" among other issues, the Al- Siyassah daily reported,
quoting "highly informed sources."


The meeting would take decisions on proposed reforms aimed at
preventing wrangling and at consolidating the political system,
the daily said.


Last year, the ruling family was plunged into an internal power
struggle that resulted in an unprecedented vote by the elected
parliament to remove former emir Sheikh Saad Abdullah al-Sabah on
health grounds.


The meeting comes after veteran opposition lawmaker Ahmad al-
Saadun warned earlier this week against bids to suspend or amend
the emirate's 1962 constitution, saying this would amount to a
coup attempt.


Saadun, a former three-time parliament speaker, told a public
rally that suspending the constitution would be "a coup against
the regime which we will confront, regardless of the
consequences."


Kuwait's constitution, the first in the Gulf Arab region, was
suspended twice in 1976 for five years and in 1986 for six years
when parliament was also dissolved.


Another senior opposition lawmaker warned on Saturday that
suspending the constitution could lead to street protests such as
those that took place in the emirate about 20 years ago.


"The suspension of the constitution and parliament would revive
more strongly the Monday rallies" organised by the opposition
after parliament was suspended in 1986, MP Saleh al-Fadhalah told
reporters.


He urged the political leadership to assure Kuwaitis that there
is no intention to amend the constitution or suspend the
legislature.


The Al-Sabah family has run the affairs of the oil-rich emirate
since Kuwait came into existence some 250 years ago, and Kuwaitis
have seldom questioned their continuing rule.


The emir, crown prince and the prime minister are all from the
Al-Sabah bloodline, which also controls the key ministerial
porfolios of defence, interior, oil and foreign affairs.

