

Sheffield United thrashed West Ham United 3-0 at Bramall Lane
here in Saturday's crunch battle between two sides desperate to
avoid relegation from the English Premiership.


Goals from midfielders Michael Tonge and Phil Jagielka plus a
third from striker Jon Stead were more than enough to secure the
Blades' most crucial victory of the season to leave the Hammers
teetering on the brink of relegation.


Tonge broke the deadlock with a powerful free kick on 39 minutes
to notch his second goal of the season and inspire Neil Warnock's
side to their first win in five matches.


Jagielka doubled the home side's advantage just after the hour
mark with a powerful header before Stead completed the rout 12
minutes from time to bring the Hammers' three match unbeaten run
crashing to a halt.


The visitors knew another win would lift them over the Blades and
leave them on the verge of climbing out of the relegation zone
with precious few games left.


Not surprisingly, Alan Curbishley had named an unchanged side as
he looked for his side's purple patch to continue.


Warnock made four positional changes to the side which suffered a
late 2-1 home defeat to Newcastle United last Saturday, recalling
Tonge, Derek Geary, Christian Nade and record signing Jamaica
defender Claude Davis in a bid to strengthen his leaking back
line.


The Blades have found goals hard to come by of late, netting just
twice in five games throughout their worst run since the start of
the season.


Warnock had even drafted in a psychologist to get his players
thin king positive thoughts.


This was an match for cool heads but a frantic opening saw
chances squandered at both ends.


West Ham's Carlos Tevez shot high and wide before failing to find
the unmarked Bobby Zamora close to goal after the Argentina
striker had beaten Davis with a clever run.


The Hammers, however, were fortunate to escape falling behind on
nine minutes when James Collins missed Keith Gillespie's cross
altogether, allowing Colin Kazim-Richards the chance to break the
deadlock.


The winger looked slightly shocked that the ball had managed to
reach him at the back post and shot tamely at goalkeeper Robert
Green.


Despite the hectic pace and bluster from both sides, the quality
on show indicated it was no surprise they were struggling to beat
the drop.


The point was illustrated on 34 minutes when Hammers midfielder
Lee Bowyer took it upon himself to intercept a Zamora cross meant
for Tevez only to send his header from just eight yards
hopelessly wide.


Bowyer's miss was to prove costly just five minutes later when
Tonge introduced some quality to proceedings to fire the Blades
ahead in stunning fashion.


Hammers defender Anton Ferdinand, who had been booked moments
earlier for clattering into Nade, shoved the Frenchman to the
ground on the edge of the penalty box and was fortunate to escape
a red card.


But the Hammers did not escape the attentions of Tonge, who
rifled an unstoppable drive in off the underside of Green's
crossbar.


The Hammers rallied after the break but Zamora missed a clear
headed chance on 57 minutes before Republic of Ireland goalkeeper
Paddy Kenny's inspired save somehow denied Australia defender
Lucas Neill.


Moments later Tevez twisted and turned beyond three defenders
only to scoop his shot high and wide.


He was duly punished on 61 minutes when Jagielka rose to meet
Gillespie's corner before powering a downward header past the
helpless Green to sink Curbishley's men even before Stead's late
blast.

