

Italian Giancarlo Fisichella was delighted with his performance
in qualifying in seventh place for Renault on Saturday ahead of
the Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday.


The reigning constructors champions Renault have endured a
painfully slow start to the 2007 campaign scoring just eight
points as they struggle to come to terms with the switch to
Bridgestone tyres and the loss of double world drivers champion
Fernando Alonso to McLaren Mercedes-Benz.


However Fisichella, who is looking to score points for the third
consecutive race, declared himself extremely satisfied at
attaining, what he believes was the maximum performance from the
car.


"It is so tight to get into the top ten for us at the moment,"
said Fisichella.


"After that, we made the most of the opportunity to qualify
seventh, ahead of our direct competitors. That is the best start
for our weekend.


"I feel I achieved our current maximum today. After working hard
in practice, I think we have found a consistent balance for the
race, and I am looking forward to scoring more points tomorrow.
That was not the target at the start of the season, but we need
to the best with what we have at the moment."


However the Italian's rookie teammate Finn Heikki Kovalainen
stuttered through qualifying and failed to make the final shoot-
out' finishing the day in 12th place.


Even though he ended the day five places down on his more
experienced teammate Kovalainen expressed his happiness at his
performance.


"From my point of view, there was nothing more I could get out of
the car today," he said.


"I did my maximum, and I was right on the limit all the way round
the lap, but we didn't make it into the top ten. I have felt a
little bit off Giancarlo all weekend, and we saw that in
qualifying too.


"I am disappointed, but we know we are in a very tight battle at
the moment, and we had another reminder of that today. It will be
another tough race tomorrow, but as always, I will be trying to
race to the limit, to be aggressive at the start - and to try and
score points."

