

Portsmouth kept their dreams of UEFA Cup football alive with a
2-1 win over visitors Newcastle United at Fratton Park on
Saturday.


Zimbabwean striker Benjani Mwaruwari gave Pompey the perfect
start with a seventh-minute goal and defender Matt Taylor blasted
in a 30-yard strike in the 59th minute for his third goal in
three games.


Turkey midfielder Emre gave the Magpies a glimmer of hope with a
69th-minute penalty but Portsmouth held on to take all three
points.


With four games left, the result leaves Portsmouth seventh in the
Premiership table, which may prove good enough for a UEFA Cup
place should a Champions League-qualified side win the FA Cup.


Glenn Roeder's Newcastle are 11th, nine points clear of the
relegation zone but eight points behind Pompey.


The hosts had 21 shots to Newcastle's seven and only occasionally
looked threatened.


The Magpies could have scored two early goals but former England
goalkeeper David James pushed over Nigeria striker Obefami
Martins's shot and Australia defender Craig Moore scuffed his
effort wide from the resulting corner.


Benjani made Newcastle pay minutes later, holding off Moore and
Steven Taylor in the penalty box before firing a low drive past
goalkeeper Steve Harper.


It was only the fifth goal of the season for Pompey's record
signing and his first since New Year's Day.


Pompey's Nigeria striker Nwankwo Kanu crashed a shot against
Harper's crossbar in the 16th minute which television replays
suggested had bounced down over the goal-line. However, referee
Chris Foy did not spot it and Kanu's celebrations were in vain.


In the second half, Martins directed a powerful header onto the
bar from a James Milner cross but despite the pressure, Harry
Redknapp's side doubled their lead minutes later.


Taylor, who has earned a reputation for hitting long-distance
goals, thumped a left-foot shot that bounced in front of Harper
and flew past him.


Newcastle pulled one back when Serbia defender Dejan Stefanovic
tripped Milner in the box and Emre beat James to his left from
the penalty spot.


It meant James has to wait for another chance to overtake former
Arsenal and England goalkeeper David Seaman's Premiership record
for the most clean sheets.


Roeder threw on Spain striker Albert Luque in place of Republic
of Ireland winger Damien Duff with nine minutes left, but he
could not change the outcome.


Pompey had done enough and now are within touching distance of
securing a UEFA Cup spot.

