

India could face more monetary policy tightening as it battles
inflation but fears its economy will suffer a "hard landing" are
unfounded, investment bank Goldman Sachs says.


The bank made the comments as it launched a new monthly Financial
Conditions Index or FCI to forecast the monetary policy and
business cycle of Asia's fourth-largest economy.


"Even after the current spate of rate increases, financial
conditions remain supportive of growth, and thus concerns of a
hard landing are overdone," according to the index's first
monthly reading.


The index suggests "financial conditions are not very tight when
viewed in a historical context," Goldman Sachs added in the
statement released on Friday.


The bank saw scope for further monetary tightening by the Reserve
Bank of India "to reduce effervescent demand" and combat
inflation.


The wholesale price index, India's most closely watched inflation
monitor, fell Friday below six percent for the first time in
nearly three months.


Inflation slipped to 5.74 percent in the week ended March 31 from
6.39 percent a week earlier, according to official data.


Last December, inflation broke above the central bank's target
range of 5.0-5.5 percent, prompting a slew of monetary tightening
measures.


Late last month, the bank lifted a key lending rate by 25 basis
points to 7.75 percent -- the highest in more than four years.


It also hiked the amount of cash commercial banks must hold on
deposit by 50 points to 6.50 percent to suck out cash and curb
rampant credit growth -- its third such increase in four months.


Goldman Sachs forecast interest rates will have to be raised by
50 basis points and money supply growth brought down to 15.7
percent from 20 percent to ease demand.


Economic growth needs to be reduced to a sustainable level of
about eight percent, it added.


The economy is estimated to grow by 9.2 percent in the financial
year to March 31, 2007 with expansion running at an average 8.6
percent during the past four financial years.


Subduing inflation has become a priority for the ruling national
Congress party, which is fighting elections in India's most
populous state, Uttar Pradesh.


The cost-of-living surge was cited by analysts as a key factor in
the party's defeat in two state elections in February.

