

The United States has stepped up the pressure on North Korea to
begin implementing a multilateral deal on ending its nuclear
programme, after Pyongyang missed a key deadline set two months
ago.


Washington urged Pyongyang to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear
reactor and "immediately" readmit UN inspectors to verify it --
key conditions laid out in a February aid-for-disarmament
agreement reached after years of negotiations.


North Korea, which has said it will comply only after it recovers
25 million dollars frozen in a Macau bank, meanwhile prepared to
celebrate what would have been the 95th birthday of the country's
late founder Kim Il-Sung on Sunday.


Pyongyang must "realise fully its commitments ... by inviting
back the International Atomic Energy Agency immediately to begin
shutting and sealing the Yongbyon nuclear facility," US State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement Saturday.


An invitation to the UN nuclear watchdog would "enable the other
parties to follow through with the provision of emergency energy
assistance equivalent to 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil and move
the six-party process forward," he said.


Since agreeing to the February deal, North Korea has refused to
budge until the dispute over the assets -- frozen when US
sanctions were put in place over allegations of money laundering
and counterfeiting -- is resolved.


The United States has said it has unblocked the money and the
North can access it, but a North Korean official told AFP in
Pyongyang: "There have been no new developments on the financial
issue of Banco Delta Asia."


Christopher Hill, Washington's point man on the North Korea
nuclear issue, said earlier Saturday that China had urged
patience with Pyongyang, saying it could take a few more days to
resolve the banking standoff.


"The Chinese believe we should show a little more patience on
this in the coming days," Hill told journalists in Beijing.


"They said the lines of communication were open. If it is going
to get resolved it certainly should be able to get resolved very
soon."


Hill also called on North Korea to invite IAEA inspectors into
the country as a measure of good faith, but admitted the six-
party process to halt Pyongyang's nuclear drive was losing steam.


"We don't have a lot of momentum right now," he said.


"We'd like to see a similar level of effort from the DPRK, a
level of effort that, frankly, we haven't been seeing."


In Washington, McCormack said the United States and its
negotiating partners "remain firmly committed to prompt
completion of the initial action plan and to achieving the
denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula."


China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and Russia first
launched negotiations on the North's nuclear programme in 2003.
The secretive state test- fired several missiles in July,
followed by an atom bomb test in October.


A North Korean foreign ministry official, speaking to AFP on
Friday, said that Pyongyang stood behind the deal but would not
act until it saw the money.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," said Kim
Son-gyong, deputy director of the ministry's European department.


On Saturday, amid a diplomatic flurry as the nuclear deadline
loomed, some 100,000 North Korean dancers, acrobats and gymnasts
put on a colourful show in honour of the late "Eternal President"
Kim, on the eve of his birth date.


It was only the third "Arirang Festival," named after a Korean
folk song and first staged in 2002, in honour of Kim, the father
of current leader Kim Jong- Il. Thousands were to dance in
"people's balls" on Sunday.

