

Unusually hot and dry weather conditions predicted for Sunday's
Paris-Roubaix one-day classic are conspiring to add plenty of
spice to the world's toughest bike race.


Usually, there are innumerable factors to account for in the 111
-year-old event known as the 'Hell of the North.'


As if racing over 28 cobblestone sections totalling 52.7km of the
race's 259km wasn't hard enough, the hot temperatures and clouds
of dust which are likely to rise up from the dry cobblestones as
the 200-strong peloton and their teams cars pass will present
another challenge.


Former world champion Tom Boonen, the 2005 winner, shoulders
Belgium and his Quick Step team's hopes after their relatively
poor showing in the Tour of Flanders and Gent-Wevelgem,


For the 27-year-old, there's only one way to be in contention
prior to reaching the famous Roubaix velodrome where the race
finishes after one and a half laps of the track.


"In these conditions it's even more dangerous," said Boonen when
asked about the anticipated dusty conditions.


"As soon as you drop off the front (of the peloton), you're
racing blind. You can't really choose which trajectory to take
and you don't see the danger coming on the cobblestones.


"When the cobblestones are dry, you ride a lot faster. But when
you crash, it hurts a lot more."


Boonen, who has been on the Roubaix podium three times, has
sufficient experience in the race which, over 104 editions, the
dominant Belgians have won 51 times.


But he could be upstaged by compatriot Leif Hoste, who finished
second last year before being disqualified because he crossed a
closed railway level crossing in the final 10km of the race.


The Predictor-Lotto rider finished second behind Alessandro
Ballan in last Sunday's equally tough but hillier Tour of
Flanders, where Quick Step were found wanting.


Agonisingly, that signalled a third runner-up place for Hoste.
But the Belgian seems hardly worried about a few anticipated dust
clouds.


"Sun or rain, you still have to have the legs and be at the
front," he said.


Switzerland's Fabian Cancellara is the defending champion having
escaped late on to finish in the velodrome on his own last year.


The CSC rider feels the conditions could lead to a tactical race,
and he affirmed: "We will try to control the race as much as
possible, as we have been doing all season.


"In this race, however, you have to be patient and wait for the
right moment. I know I'll be going in as a big favourite, but I'm
quite happy to shoulder that role."


Frenchman Florent Brard, of the Caisse d'Epargne team, is not
considered a contender, but he is well-equipped to sum up perhaps
the single, biggest diffulty on the race.


"The hot weather doesn't change a thing. They still haven't put
asphalt over the cobblestones!"


He added: "Another factor is the wind conditions, and the fact
it's hotter means we will all need to drink a lot more,
especially with all the dust we'll be eating!"


Francaise des Jeux team manager Martial Gayant suggested the
hotter conditions are likely to see a lot more retirements than
usual.


"We're looking at three litres of water for each rider, and
more," he said. "And the fact that it's a bit hotter means the
riders will be exhausted after five hours of racing. And Paris-
Roubaix, it's a six-hour race."


Sweden's Magnus Backstedt, the winner in 2004, is making his
return to Hell after a recent injury and illness scare.


He admitted the conditions just don't suit him at all.: "I'd
prefer it to be raining. Paris-Roubaix is normally a hard, wet
race. But at the end of the day, it's the hardest bastard who
comes out top at the end."

