

The prospects of a fairytale royal wedding between Britain's
Prince William and Kate Middleton appeared to have been shattered
Saturday following widespread reports that the couple had split.


Middleton, 25, has been the envy of young women all over the
world for her relationship with the dashing prince, the 24-year-
old future British king.


But now she looks set to spend her life outside royal circles as
just an assistant accessories buyer for a fashion chain and
another on the list of princesses that might have been following
failed royal romances.


However, the paparazzi lenses that have followed her every move
as speculation about a royal wedding mounted are unlikely to
disappear.


The intense spotlight on Middleton drew comparisons with
William's late mother Diana, Princess of Wales, who was hounded
from before her 1981 marriage to Prince Charles and whose death
is still blamed by some on stalking photographers.


Born on January 9, 1982 in Reading, an information technology
industry town west of London, Catherine Elizabeth Middleton is
the daughter of self-made millionaires in the children's party
paraphernalia business. She has a younger brother and sister.


A level-headed and down-to-earth girl, she attended the exclusive
Marlborough College boarding school, where William's cousin
Princess Eugenie of York also studied.


Middleton had a schoolgirl crush on William and had a picture of
him on her wall.


She performed well enough in her exams to get into the respected
University of St Andrews in Scotland to start an art history
course alongside William in September 2001.


She was credited with persuading him to stay on and switch to a
geography course when he became disillusioned with his studies
during his first year.


He paid 200 pounds (395 dollars, 295 euros) for a front row seat
at a charity fashion show where she modelled a see-through lace
dress which revealed her black underwear. Pictures of her on the
catwalk appeared in several newspapers.


In their second year at St Andrews, William and Middleton moved
into a house with two other flatmates.


The pair soon became inseparable and started going out near the
end of 2003. They were pictured together on the Swiss ski slopes
in March 2004, fuelling feverish speculation about a first public
romance for William.


Middleton found herself in the spotlight as the world's media
wondered whether she could one day become queen.


In October 2005, her lawyers asked newspapers to leave her alone
amid allegations of press hounding and further requests followed.


But attention intensified with further apperances together,
particularly after their first public kiss in January 2006 and
subsequent holidays in the sun.


On her 25th birthday in January this year, Middleton faced a bank
of more than 20 photographers and five television crews camped
outside her flat in the plush Chelsea district of west London,
most of whom had arrived before dawn.


Paparazzi blocked her path and when she finally drove away,
photographers chased after her car on foot.


Royal commentators made the Diana comparison and questioned the
way that the world's media treats royals and their partners.


Middleton earned their respect for the way she conducted herself
in the face of overwhelming media interest in her private life.


In December, she watched William graduate as an army officer.


It was the first time she had been at a high-profile public event
attended by his grandmother Queen Elizabeth II and senior royals.


It publicly signified her acceptance in royal circles and
therefore intensified speculation that the pair would marry.


But his love of the army life and preference for partying with
his colleagues rather than driving back to London every weekend
was cited as one of the reasons for the break-up.


Many royal watchers were certain that the pair would wed.


British retailer Woolworths had 25,000 commemorative mugs, 15,000
tea towels, 12,000 plates and 8,000 mouse mats bearing pictures
of William and Middleton, ready to go on sale within 48 hours of
an engagement announcement.


But dreams of Middleton one day becoming Queen Catherine now seem
over.

