

Malaysian piracy syndicates have raised the bounty on the heads
of two dogs after they helped find millions of dollars' worth of
fake DVDs and CDs, reports said Saturday.


Anti-piracy canines Lucky and Flo struck again on Friday,
sniffing out caches of up to 100,000 illegal DVDs in their latest
raid, the New Straits Times daily said.


The black Labradors helped enforcement officers seize pirated
copies of movies worth more than one million ringgit (290,790
dollars) hidden in 11 shops at a shopping mall in southern Johor
state, the newspaper said.


On March 20 the two dogs led officers to a hidden room stocked
with fake DVDs and CDs worth more than 10 million ringgit in the
same mall.


But their success has put them in danger. Malaysian authorities
said piracy syndicates were now more determined to kill them and
had raised the bounty on their heads from 10,000 ringgit to
50,000 ringgit.


Fahmi Kassim, Johor's domestic trade and consumer affairs
ministry's enforcement director, said his officers had been
attacked by syndicates who were furious that their businesses
were threatened, the Star daily reported.


"My men had just finished work for the day when the attack
occurred," Fahmi was quoted as saying by the Star.


"If they retaliate because we raid their premises, we will just
reinforce our team even more," he said.


Fahmi said some of his men were physically assaulted and hit by
pepper spray while in another incident, a Molotov cocktail was
flung into the garden of an enforcement officer's home.


The Labradors, which hail from Northern Ireland, are said to be
the only ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and
chemicals used in optical discs.


They were initially brought to Malaysia in February for a one-
month trial by the the Motion Picture Association, which
investigates piracy for major movie companies.


Their stay has been extended after helping authorities in five
successful raids throughout the peninsula, sniffing out pirated
DVDs and CDs stored in secret compartments in stores and shopping
complexes.

