

The International Monetary Fund called Saturday for a flexible,
non-coercive approach to monitoring exchange rate regimes of
member countries after the United States had pressed for stepped-
up intervention by the IMF.


"Dialogue and persuasion should remain key pillars of effective
surveillance," the IMF's policy-setting committee said here in a
statement after a twice-yearly meeting.


IMF action on exchange rates, the committee added, "should pay
due regard to country circumstances" and be characterized by
even-handedness.


Earlier in the day US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, in an
address to the committee, re-asserted Washington's insistence
that the IMF take a more muscular approach to currency
volatility.


"Let us be clear: exercising firm surveillance over members'
exchange-rate policies is the core function of the institution,"
he said.


"For us, reform of the IMF's foreign-exchange surveillance is the
lynchpin on which other reforms depend, and we look forward to
action in this important area very soon."


Paulson, in language that would be repeated in the committee
statement, said IMF action should be "even-handed and candid" and
reflect current economic circumstances in a particular country.


But the US Treasury chief also warned that "if exchange-rate
issues are not debated critically and openly at the Fund,
alternative venues and approaches will necessarily emerge."


There have been bills introduced in the US Congress demanding
trade sanctions on China for what it is seen as its refusal to
allow its currency, the yuan, to appreciate.


US insistence on vigorous IMF action may therefore reflect Bush
administration frustration with Beijing.


The relatively weak Chinese currency, according to the US
argument, makes Chinese goods more attractive on US markets and
threatens jobs held by American workers.


But China, in a statement to the IMF released here Saturday, said
its exchange- rate regime "will be improved in a gradual and
controllable manner."


"Exchange-rate flexibility will gradually increase, with
attention paid to the value of a basket of currencies."


The statement said that since currency reforms in July 2005, the
yuan in fact had appreciated by 7.0 percent against the dollar as
of March this year.

