

Liverpool's thoughts appeared to be on their eagerly-anticipated
Champions' League semi-final with Chelsea as they ground out a
tedious goalless draw with Manchester City at Eastlands on
Saturday.


In front of the biggest crowd at this stadium this season,
45,883, City stretched their run of play without a goal to nine
hours and 20 minutes at home, a depressing statistic that said
much about the lack of their ability to break down stubborn
opposition.


City's American winger DaMarcus Beasley struck the cross-bar
after displaying what was a rare piece of skill with his
intricate footwork carving a 74th minute opening, and Xabi Alonso
almost managed to chip Andreas Isaksson with a chip from five
yards inside the Liverpool half. But they were rare moments of
interest from a forgettable encounter.


Rafa Benitez's team entered the game with a four-point cushion
over Arsenal in the chase for third place in the Premiership, a
lead that was halved by the end of the afternoon, and, with City
now safe from relegation concerns following an impressive recent
run, there was a real end of season feel to proceedings.


The game might have been radically different had Jermaine Pennant
succeeded in beating Isaksson in the fifth minute, the City
keeper blocking the winger's close-range effort well in an
incident that had Benitez appealing that Michael Ball had impeded
his man and which also gave brief hope that the game might offer
something in the way of entertainment.


But, before long, it settled down into an afternoon of rank
mediocrity, punctuated only by the odd flash of inspiration from
the likes of Steven Gerrard and Darius Vassell, enjoying a
resurgent end to a season badly interrupted by injury.


Vassell's tenth minute cross created City's first chance as Emile
Mpenza connected with a glancing header that flew just beyond
Liverpool's far post and, after Alonso's audacious attempt to
beat Isaksson ended with the ball flying just over the City bar,
Beasley's volley from a half-cleared City corner from the edge of
the area was another rare opportunity.


The half ended with Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher
demonstrating why goals from him are such a collector's item,
blazing a shot into the side-netting after Pennant's cross had
flown tantalisingly across the City goal line without players
from either side making a connection.


Hopes of an improved second half effort from either team did not
last long. Gerrard headed over a Steve Finnan free-kick, then
presented Isaksson with a comfortable catch with a rare on-target
effort. John Arne Riise also chanced his arm from long range with
a strike that did not miss the City goal by much.


Yet these were rare noteworthy moments to punctuate the
mediocrity. Alonso and Finnan, for Liverpool, and Joey Barton,
for a disgraceful two-footed lunge on Gerrard, were all cautioned
in quick succession midway through the second period but, given
the general tone of the afternoon, even that flurry of activity
did nothing to raise the on-field temperature.

