

Roger Federer will be out to blunt the torrid clay-court pace of
Rafael Nadal as the defending champion Spaniard aims to pick up
where he left off a year ago as the Monte Carlo Masters begins on
Sunday.


Nadal and Federer, losing finalist to the two-time Roland Garros
champion from Mallorca in three clay finals in spring 2006, both
have something to prove on the clay of the Monte Carlo country
club.


Federer is keen to lift off after suffering a rare two
consecutive losses, both at the hands of Argentine Guillermo
Canas last month on US hardcourts.


Nadal has been resting a foot injury which kept him out of Davis
Cup last weekend as Spain lost to the Americans.


The 20-year-old Spaniard is riding a 60-match win streak on clay
and cannot be surprised if he finds the revitalised Federer in
another final


The event is under a cloud after being tipped from a downgrade
from Masters status in 2009 as the ATP attempts to streamline the
men's circuit.


And outraged local officials at the European home of the
sanctioning body took matters to hand this week by filing suit in
Delaware in an attempt to prevent what many feel is an
unwarranted slight at the historic event.


Nadal last played a Niami quarter-final a fortnight ago, where he
lost to eventual champion Novak Djokovic after beating the
teenaged Serb in the Indian Wells final only two weeks earlier.


Djokovic as well as Canas could turn up as threats to the
established order as the first major clay event of the pre-French
Open sun begins.


Nadal has a huge load to bear, having lifted titles in 2006 at
Monte Carlo, Barcelona, Rome and Paris.


Federer lost to his Spanish rival in the finals at all save
Barcelona which he did not play.


The steady Swiss has put in more methodical preparation this week
in the principality, even foregoing the presence of legendary
Australian trainer Tony Roche at Wimbledon this summer in order
to get his mentor on board fore the clay campaign.


And world number one Federer is sure to have learned from his par
of March losses.


For one thing, they gave him extra time to prepare for the red
dirt.


The Swiss, honoured this week by a stamp bearing his likeness
holding up a Wimbledon trophy, went 92-5 last season with ten
titles including three of the four Grand Slams.


His current focus is aiming to win the French, starting May 28.


"(The losses) definitely have taken away my confidence a little
bit, but it has also given me more time. Maybe that is just as
good a thing.


"Monte Carlo gives you a good idea of how you are playing and
what you still have to work on."


Nadal tuned up with an exhibition on his island home against his
mentor, Carlos Moya. He was last beaten on clay by Russian Igor
Andreev two years ago in Valencia.


"I'll try to have a good result and to play my best tennis and
that's it," he told his personal website.


"If I play my best tennis, I'm going to have a chance to have a
good claycourt season."


After the first-round bye awarded to all seeds, top seed Federer
plays one of a pair of qualifiers while number two Nadal faces
either Juan Chela or Dutchman Martin Verkerk, a former Roland
Garros finalist.


Following the lead of the French Open, organisers are starting a
day earlier in hopes of drawing weekend crowds twice during the
eight-day event.


Russian Nikolay Davydenko takes the third seeding ahead of
Australian Open finalist Fernando Gonzalez of Chile, Spain's
Tommy Robredo, Djokovic and number


seven Croatian Ivan Ljubicic.


Britain's Andy Murray, due to reach a career-best top ten world
ranking on Monday, is seeded eighth, opening against the winner
of the tie between Marc Giquel and Florian Mayer.

