

Chicago was named the US candidate city for the 2016 Summer
Olympics, defeating co-finalist Los Angeles in a narrow vote by
the US Olympic Committee (USOC) Board of Directors here Saturday.


The 11-member panel's decision came five months before final bids
are due to be submitted to the International Olympic Committee,
which will decide upon the host for the 2016 Olympics in October
of 2009 at Copenhagen.


"We are really honored," Chicago bid chairman Pat Ryan said. "Now
we have to go out and really get engaged in the process to be in
a position to bring the athletes to the lakefront of Chicago."


USOC chairman of the board Peter Ueberroth, who masterminded the
staging of the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, announced the verdict
but would not reveal details of the vote after each bid city made
a final presentation to the board.


"It was a close vote, a very close vote," Ueberroth said. "I was
convinced both cities had a chance to take what they manufactured
in this bid and internationalize it and with a humble approach go
to the rest of the world."


Ueberroth said the USOC wants the 2016 Olympics to help boost the
US role in the global Olympic community.


"We wanted to re-establish the United States in the international
Olympic movement," Ueberroth said. "We've lost our pace over
time."


The next Summer Olympics will be staged next year in Beijing
while the 2012 Olympics were awarded to London with New York a
losing bidder.


Tokyo, Rio de Janiero and Prague have already announced rival
2016 bids and other cities are expected to join the chase.


"We're just getting into the starting blocks," said USOC
international vice president Bob Ctvrtlik, chairman of the USOC
candidate evaluation committee.


"Let's remember the race is just beginning and this will be a
long and difficult process. This will be one of the most
difficult competitions ever."


Chicago sweetened its bid Saturday by adding a 500 million-dollar
guarantee from an insurance firm, bringing assurances to 1.1
billion dollars on a Games that organizers project will turn a
525 million-dollar profit.


"A city would have to be a blithering idiot to put on an Olympic
Games and not have a surplus," Ueberroth said. "I would not ever
be worried about Chicago would have anything unsuccessful
financially.


"But don't focus on that now. Focus on the 60 votes."


Plans for a lakeside athletes village and entertainment center,
tuitions for 120 years worth of scholarships from a coalition of
colleges and a compact area for staging events were part of the
successful Chicago bid.


"The value with the lakefront center, legacy projects with the
guarantees they offered, they gave our board the level of
assurance that might have been the differentiation between
cities," Ctvrtlik said.


"For the Olympic Games to be a success, we have to create a
certain magic, a certain celebration, and the Olympic center on
the lake we felt would do that."


Ueberroth said excitement from people in the Midwest city, which
has never hosted an Olympics, helped overcome an attempt to stage
a third Olympics in Los Angeles, the 1932 and 1984 host.


"A thing that stood out from Chicago was the enthusiasm from the
average man on the street. This area of the country stepped
froward so aggressively for the Olympic movement and it caught
everybody's attention," Ueberroth said.


The United States last hosted the Summer Games in 1996 when the
Centennial Olympics were staged in Atlanta. The 2002 Winter
Olympics were staged in Salt Lake City, Utah. New York was a
rejected bidder for the 2012 Summer Olympics.


"We have a lot of work in preparing this bid for the
international phase," USOC chief executive Jim Scherr said. "We
have no guarantee, right or entitlement to host the Olympics. We
have to earn that right through this process."


Chicago mayor Richard M. Daley said his city would embrace the
Olympic spirit.


"It gives us the opportunity to show what can be accomplished
betwen humanity and the world," he said. "What the Olympic
movement means, it's completely diffierent than anything else
you've ever dealt with.


"People come together to compete on a level playing field to
recognize the best in humanity. Maybe we need that in the world
today more than anything else."


Houston, Philadelphia and San Francisco were eliminated earlier
in the US 2016 bid candidacy process but like Los Angeles have
said they would support Chicago.


"Now we all come together," said Los Angeles mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa, who praised his beaten bid, saying, "I wouldn't
change one single thing."

