

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene has insisted the fitness of
fast bowler Lasith Malinga won't be compromised against World Cup
holders Australia in Monday's Super Eights match.


Malinga, 23, missed the six-wicket win against New Zealand at
Grenada's National Stadium on Thursday after damaging left ankle
ligaments during a training session.


He bowled off a shortened run in the nets at Grenada's La Sagesse
cricket ground for approximately 15 minutes here Saturday,
generating lively pace, before having his left ankle heavily
strapped.


Sri Lanka, second in the standings behind Australia, need one
more win from their two second round matches to be sure of
reaching the semi-finals.


Given they finish their Super Eights on Wednesday against an
Ireland team that suffered a nine-wicket thrashing by Australia
in Barbados on Friday, there doesn't appear to be a pressing need
for Sri Lanka to rush Malinga back.


"Today was the first day he bowled after four days," said
Jayawardene.


"We didn't want to push him too hard today. We'll see how he is
tomorrow (Sunday)."


Looking ahead to Monday's match in Grenada, Jayawardene added:
"It is an important game for us but I don't think it's that
important for us to risk Lasith if he is not 100 percent.


"We've got guys who can step up to the plate and deliver for us
so I'm not very concerned about his fitness right now."


Farveez Maharoof, who deputised for Malinga against New Zealand,
is likely to retain his place although Sri Lanka also have fellow
quick Nuwan Kulasekara in their squad.


Malinga, whose distinctive, slingy action makes him hard for
batsmen to face has made a huge impact on world cricket during
the past year.


At the World Cup he had topped the tournament bowling standings
with 15 wickets in six matches at an average of 14.26, including
a record four in four balls that so nearly saw the 1996 champions
to a stunning Super Eights win against South Africa in a match
the Proteas eventually won by one wicket.


"We'll just assess his situation day by day. We'll see whether
he's fit for Australia and, if not, whether he's fit for Ireland
or the semi-finals," Jayawardene explained.


Australia, unbeaten in the tournament, are the only side to have
already reached the last four as they chase an unprecedented
third straight World Cup.


New Zealand, level on points with Sri Lanka but in third spot on
run-rate, were taking on fourth-placed South Africa at the
National Stadium on Saturday.


"We will see how things go today between New Zealand and South
Africa but definitely for us it's an important game," added
Jayawardene of the Australia game.


"Winning matches is a good thing to do, especially against
Australia who have been setting the trend in this World Cup.


"I've played them the last eight years and every game we've
played against them has been tough. It's always a great challenge
to play those guys because we know we are up against a very good
side.


"You have to compete with them all the time. It's an ideal time
for us to play them because we are very relaxed."

