

Police hunting the killer of cricket coach Bob Woolmer admitted
on Saturday that the investigation into the baffling murder will
be a marathon affair.


A month on from the killing, and despite 30 officers, assisted by
Scotland Yard, working on the case, Jamaican police say they are
no nearer to catching the killer.


"There are three possibilities," said Mark Shields, the Jamaica
Deputy Commissioner of Police, here on Saturday.


"One is that someone could give themselves up. Two, there could
be a massive breakthrough or, three, we are here for the long
haul.


"At the moment we are certainly in category three. We would love
to move to one but I think that is unlikely at this stage."


The 58-year-old Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel room
on March 18, a day after his Pakistan team had been humiliated at
the World Cup by Ireland's part-timers.


He was pronounced dead at hospital and a subsequent post-mortem
conducted by government pathologist Ere Sheshiah found that death
was due to asphyxia due to manual strangulation.


Shields said that police have now received the toxicology report
on Woolmer's tissue sample, but are tight-lipped as to whether
the Pakistan coach was poisoned before being strangled to death.


"We have some results from toxicology now but they will require
further investigation and analysis and therefore it would be
totally inappropriate for me to elaborate any further on that,"
said Shields.


Meanwhile, Scotland Yard detectives who are assisting the
Jamaican police in the investigation, have made some
recommendations to local police but Shields was reluctant to
comment on the nature of those suggestions.


Detectives are also continuing to analyse CCTV footage recovered
from the hotel and elsewhere.


Shields said the police have received some results from these
tapes and he said they are encouraging.


Around 30 police investigators are working full-time on the
Woolmer investigation with over 100 witness statements taken. Two
Pakistan police are also working on the case.


Shields added that Jamaican police will travel oversees as part
of the ongoing investigation. The inquest into the death has been
set for April 23.


Patrick Murphy, the Kingston coroner, will conduct the hearing at
the Jamaica Conference Centre and a dozen or more witnesses are
expected to testify.


Woolmer's death led to a fevered round of speculation as to a
motive. The most common theory is that his death was linked to
match-fixing and illegal betting in cricket.

