

A leading rights activist on Saturday castigated the Southern
African Development Community and the African Union for their
inaction in the political and economic crisis in Zimbabwe.


The secretary general of the World Alliance for Citizen
Participation Kumi Naidoo told a prayer meeting in Zimbabwe's
second city of Bulawayo that the "SADC and AU should be closed
down if they cannot take action in the collective interests of
the citizens they represent.


"Even minus the politics, the economic meltdown is evident and as
Southern African citizens we are getting fed up of their non
assertive action."


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downturn for the past seven
years characterised by world-record inflation, high unemployment
with the majority of the population living below the poverty
threshold.


Scores converged at a church in Zimbabwe's second city Saturday
for the prayer meeting convened by a coalition of rights and
opposition groups for an end to the political and economic crisis
in the country.


The meeting, organised by groups under the aegis of the Save
Zimbabwe Campaign, was attended by at least 300 people including
Church leaders, from Zimbabwe and neighbouring countries, rights
activists and leaders of the main opposition Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC).


The three-hour service held at St Patrick's Catholic Church in
Makokoba suburb came just over a month after security beat up MDC
leader Morgan Tsvangirai and scores of party activists and gunned
down a local party official as they blocked a prayer rally in
Highfields township in the capital.


Several opposition activists were hospitalised following the
crackdown which was followed by a ban on political rallies in
most parts of Harare.


Police had initially declared the Bulawayo church meeting illegal
saying the organisers did not get mandatory police clearance.


But the organisers argued that the prayer meeting was exempted
under the Public Order and Security Act which outlaws political
rallies or processions without police clearance.


A spokesperson for the Save Zimbabwe Campaign, Useni Sibanda,
said they received a call late Friday  saying the meeting could
go ahead.


Sibanda said the latest police decision was a victory for the
Church in Zimbabwe. "We never applied and did not have to go to
court. To us it means the church's space is still being
protected."


Outspoken Roman Catholic Archibishop Pius Ncube said the State's
decision to allow the service to go ahead "shows they (the
government) realize resistance is growing and if they stopped the
meeting, they would have provoked trouble because people are
suffering and are becoming more militant."


The actual service itself was a solemn event with clerics from
various denominations giving updates of the social situation in
Zimbabwe.


Representatives of political parties and civic organisations were
also given time to speak despite police instructions that
political leaders should not speak.

