

Arsenal took a giant leap towards qualification for next season's
Champions League after edging out nearest rivals Bolton 2-1 on
Saturday.


Cesc Fabregas' first Premiership goal of the season early in the
second half allowed Arsene Wenger's side to move five points
clear of Wanderers - who saw Ivan Campo sent off late on - in
fourth place.


Bolton's hopes of a notable scalp had been perked by Nicolas
Anelka's early strike against his old club but once Tomas Rosicky
had levelled mid-way through the first half, Arsenal assumed
control.


The north Londoners could strike a decisive blow with victory in
their game in hand against Manchester City on Tuesday, although
for the moment they will be grateful just to have ended a costly
four-game winless streak.


Wenger had focused before this match on the sporting implications
of failing to secure a place in club football's most lucrative
cup competition, but on a balmy day, it was Arsenal's accountants
who had reason to sweat.


A place in the Champions League group stage is worth a minimum of
10 million pounds (20 million dollars) and, with a new 357 (700
million dollars) million pounds stadium to pay for, missing out
entirely would spell financial catastrophe.


Initially, at least, the pressure told. Bolton dictated the early
tempo and should have struck an early blow. Emmanuel Adebayor
made a hash of clearing Gary Speed's corner and the loose ball
fell to El Hadji Diouf, but the Senegalese blazed wide from 20
yards.


It was a warning which Arsenal failed to heed. In the 10th
minute, Nicky Hunt's free-kick was met by Kevin Davies, who
stretched the laws of fair play to the limit in out-muscling Kolo
Toure and nodding on to Kevin Nolan.


The Bolton captain's looping header was pawed away by Jens
Lehmann, but the lurking Anelka drove the rebound into the net,
via William Gallas's hand on the goal-line.


Arsenal falling behind on home soil has become something of a
tradition in these parts, as has their faltering attempts to
restore equilibrium. Sticking rigidly to the script, Freddie
Ljungberg swept downfield and set free Adebayor, who hammered his
shot against Jussi Jaaskelainen's legs.


The Finn - impressive all season - was in determined mood. In the
29th minute he brilliantly parried Emmanuel Eboue's daisy-cutter,
although he had been helpless moments earlier when Fabregas's
exquisite cross flashed across the six-yard box.


Arsenal needed a dollop of good fortune and, perhaps, a pinch of
the dark arts to hit back in the 32nd minute. Adebayor's cross
should have been cleared by Hunt but he dithered, allowing
Rosicky to creep in. The Czech appeared to handle before bundling
home, although television replays were inconclusive.


That relieved the pressure and within seconds of the re-start,
Arsenal forged ahead. Gilberto Silva was the architect, slipping
a perfect pass to Fabregas who evaded Abdoulaye Faye's despairing
lunge and slotted the ball into the corner of the net.


Bolton were suddenly bedraggled. Three minutes later, the hapless
Hunt scuffed a clearance straight to Alexander Hleb but the
Belarussian could only roll his shot past the post, while Abou
Diaby then headed wastefully wide from Adebayor's cross.


Bolton's hopes receded further when Campo, already booked for a
clumsy hack at Hleb, was dismissed for clattering into Rosicky,
although Diaby did his best to keep them interested.


The French defender was set clear by Fabregas but finished
dreadfully and his error might have proved costly, with Eboue
escaping an apparent hand-ball in his area seconds later. But
Arsenal were worthy winners.

