

Australian singer Olivia Newton-John said here Saturday her
daughter was "doing well" following her battle with anorexia.


"She's fine, she's doing really well, she's been through it,
she's healthy," the "Grease" star told journalists here.


"She's just finished her record and it's really fantastic."


Chloe Lattanzi revealed recently she had been suffering from the
eating disorder after pictures of her looking gaunt appeared in
the media.


She has followed in her mother's footsteps by recently securing a
record deal.


Newton-John, who is performing a concert in Hong Kong on Sunday,
also told of her faith in the healing power of music, saying it
had helped her with her own battle against breast cancer.


She said music's therapeutic qualities had been scientifically
proven, and she had hoped her latest album, "Grace and
Gratitude," would help others. A portion of the CD's proceeds
will go to cancer research.


"It's the relaxing experience of music. It accesses a different
part of your brain. I recorded it (the album) as a healing
experience for myself, but in doing so hopefully created a
healing experience for other people," she said.


Newton-John suffered breast cancer in the 1990s and has
campaigned actively on issues surrounding the disease ever since,
a campaign she said her fame had helped.


"The two go hand in hand because if I hadn't had the career I
had, people wouldn't want to hear me, if I was just Jo Blow down
the street. So I think it's given me the opportunity to talk
about... so many important things, like the environment," she
said.


"And I think the two are related. The rise in cancer is related
to the state of the environment."


Newton-John said she had several projects coming up, including a
movie, details of which would be announced at the Cannes film
festival, a new television show and fundraising for a new cancer
wing for an Australian hospital.


But she dismissed rumours of a new movie link-up with the
American actor John Travolta, with whom she starred in "Grease."


"We've talked about this for years... I'd love to work with him
of course but there are no plans," she said.

