

The Malawian father of a toddler adopted eights month ago by US
pop diva Madonna may re-unite with his son at an orphanage here
Sunday, residents said.


"We were told not to say anything to visitors, but we know
Madonna is coming here with the adopted son David who will meet
his biological father on Sunday", said Wedson Phiri, a worker at
Home of Hope in Mchinji, 110 kilometres (70 miles) from the
administrative capital Lilongwe.


Madonna, who is still waiting for a final legal process to fully
adopt David Banda, is expected to arrive in the poor southern
African nation on Sunday, to continue her charity work of
constructing several orphanages.


"We have been busy sprucing up the orphanage preparing for this
important visitor and all arrangements are being finalised,"
Phiri said Saturday, with a shovel in hand, clearing grass at the
gate of the centre.


Cosmas Namoyo, a local resident who runs a shop near the centre,
said he had spoken on Friday to the father, Yohane, who told him
he would re-unite with his son.


"He seemed to be happy that he will see his son again after eight
months," Namoyo said.


He said the orphanage, which houses 500 children and is nestled
on a big piece of land at the foot of Mchinji mountain, was being
spruced up since the past few days, with all rooms given a fresh
coat of paint.


"They have bought new mattresses and uniforms for the orphans,"
he said, adding that he closely follows ties between the centre
and Madonna.


Another orphanage funded by the singer's charity, built at
Mphandula village, 50 kilometres (30 miles) from Lilongwe, will
be officially handed over on Monday, Yacinta Chapomba, a director
of local charity Consol Homes, said.


"Madonna is just a major donor, but on Monday there will be the
hand-over of keys of the centre," she told AFP, adding that she
was not sure whether this would be done by Madonna herself.


Madonna was last year granted an 18-month interim order by the
high court to take David out of Malawi, sparking a heated debate
about adoption laws in a country where the number of orphans is
surging as a result of AIDS.


David now lives with Madonna and her British filmamker husband
Guy Ritchie.

