

The US administration has decided to keep holding five Iranians
captured in Iraq despite protests from Tehran and after an
intense debate over the issue within the administration, US media
reported.


The Washington Post reported on Saturday that President George W.
Bush's foreign policy team opted to continue to detain the five
Iranians at a meeting Tuesday and rejected recommendations from
the State Department to release the men.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice went into the meeting
initially advising that the Iranians be freed as they were no
longer "useful," the Post wrote, citing unnamed officials.


But after a review of options, Rice agreed to go along with the
consensus to keep holding the Iranians, who US officials believe
are intelligence agents from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Corps, the paper reported.


A State Department spokeswoman on Saturday declined to comment on
the report.


US officials earlier this week ruled out freeing the five
Iranians who Washington accuses of meddling in Iraq, saying a
request from Tehran for access to the five was under
consideration.


Iran says the men are diplomats who were working for a consulate
and have repeatedly demanded their release.


The United States has long accused Iran of aiding militias and
other forces that have targeted US-led troops since the fall of
Saddam Hussein's regime four years ago.


Vice President Dick Cheney's office made the strongest case for
keeping the Iranians, saying their capture sends a signal that
Iran's actions are monitored and that Iranian operatives face
possible seizure, the Post wrote.


Washington was also reluctant to release the Iranians to avoid
the appearance that a deal had been brokered to win the freedom
of 15 British sailors seized by Tehran last month, officials told
the paper.


The Britons were released last week.


The Iranians held in custody will undergo a periodic six-month
review, the same as those used for the 250 other foreign
detainees held in Iraq, the paper wrote. The next review is not
expected until July.


Tehran has warned it is unlikely to attend a high-level May
conference in Egypt on Iraq's security unless Washington releases
the five Iranians it seized in a January raid.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Wednesday there
was "no reason in the world why they should not attend this
conference if they truly had an interest in being supportive of
Iraq, Iraqi people and the Iraqi government."


"It's not about the US and Iran, it's not about anything else
other than Iraq," he said, telling reporters that the United
States "would not recognize" any linkage between the fate of the
five and Iran's presence at the talks.


Rice has said previously she does not rule out a possible
bilateral meeting with her Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr
Mottaki, on the sidelines of the May conference.


Washington has also rejected charges from Iranian state
television that the United States had severely abused an Iranian
diplomat during a two-month captivity in Iraq, saying it had
nothing to do with his plight.

