

Arsenal took control of the race for the final Champions League
place as Cesc Fabregas sealed a 2-1 win against Bolton on
Saturday.


Arsene Wenger's fourth-placed side are now five points clear of
Bolton with a game in hand and are on course to earn a spot in
Europe's top club competition next season.


They needed a stirring fightback to overcome 10-man Bolton who
took the lead through former Gunners forward Nicolas Anelka
before going down to goals from Tomas Rosicky and Fabregas. Ivan
Campo was sent off late in the second half for two bookings to
complete a disappointing day for the visitors.


Anelka broke the deadlock in the 11th minute when Kevin Nolan
headed across goal and Jens Lehmann could only palm the ball out
to the French international, who volleyed past William Gallas on
the line.


But Arsenal have grown used to coming from behind at the Emirates
Stadium this season and they were level in the 31st minute.
Emmanuel Adebayor chipped to the far post, where Rosicky got in
front of Nicky Hunt to stab past Jussi Jaaskelainen.


Arsenal were without a win in their previous four matches but
they went in front a minute into the second half. Gilberto
Silva's pass split the Bolton defence and Cesc Fabregas strode
through to slot home his first Premiership goal of the season.


Sheffield United moved out of the relegation zone with a crucial
3-0 win over fellow strugglers West Ham at Bramall Lane.


Neil Warnock's team climbed above Charlton and sit one place
above the bottom three thanks to goals from Michael Tonge, Phil
Jagielka and Jon Stead.


They took the lead when Anton Ferdinand fouled Christian Nade on
the edge of the area in the 39th minute and Tonge stepped up to
smash the free-kick past Robert Green.


West Ham dominated the early stages of the second half but Carlos
Tevez squandered their best chance and they were made to pay in
the 68th minute. Keith Gillespie's corner found Jagielka and the
midfielder powered in a tremendous effort from six yards.


Stead capped a memorable victory for the Blades and left West Ham
second bottom when he fired home in the 78th minute.


Lawrie Sanchez's first match as Fulham manager ended in defeat as
Stephen Hunt's goal gave Reading a 1-0 win at the Madejski
Stadium.


Northern Ireland coach Sanchez is in charge on a caretaker basis
until the end of the season, but he was unable to have an instant
impact after Crhis Coleman's midweek sacking.


Fulham remain in relegation danger after Hunt side-footed in
Kevin Doyle's cross from close range in the 15th minute.


Liverpool stayed third after playing out a dour 0-0 draw at
Manchester City.


Rafa Benitez's men were unable to maintain the momentum of their
previous four victories in a game of few chances.


Matt Taylor kept Portsmouth's European challenge alive with a
stunning goal that ensured his side beat Newcastle 2-1 at Fratton
Park.


Portsmouth got the perfect start in the seventh minute when
Benjani Mwaruwari produced a clinical finish for his first goal
since New Year's Day.


Taylor has earned a reputation for scoring from long-range and
lived up to those expectations in the 59th minute with a 30-yard
strike that gave Steve Harper no chance.


Emre gave Newcastle hope with a 69th minute penalty, but Harry
Redknapp's team held on.


Aston Villa striker Luke Moore scored his first goal since
September as his side won 3-1 at Middlesbrough.


The hosts were gifted the lead in the 13th minute when Villa
goalkeeper Thomas Sorensen allowed Fabio Rochemback's 30-yard
free-kick to spill out of his grasp and into the net.


But Martin O'Neill's side equalised on the stroke of half time
when Gabriel Agbonlahor surged down the wing and slipped a pass
to Craig Gardner, who drove in his first goal for Villa.


Villa went ahead in the 70th minute when substitute Moore turned
in Olof Mellberg's knock-down. Stilian Petrov wrapped up a
convincing victory when he finished well from Gareth Barry's pass
after 77 minutes.


Wigan host Tottenham on Sunday, while Charlton travel to Everton
later the same day.

