

Two lines of burly riot police linked arms to trap protesters on
a street in central Moscow on Saturday. Then their khaki-clad
colleagues ran in to whisk demonstrators away one-by-one.


The methodical operation mopped up the final few dozen anti-
Kremlin activists who had defied authorities by trying to march
between two central Moscow squares.


"Where are all the people?" asked Vasily Soldakov, a 42-year-old
driver standing at the entrance to Turgenev Square, the march's
destination, as a stream of journalists passed -- all that
remained of the "March of Dissent," organized by a coalition of
pro-democracy groups.


"How could they have arrested people. We use peaceful means. We
have Gestapo for authorities," he said, referring to Nazi
Germany's secret police.


Even after the march had been dispersed, packs of riot police
continued to roam the area, chasing and detaining anyone who
looked like a protester.


A few hundred metres (yards) away at a sanctioned meeting place,
three lines of police stopped and searched protesters, looking
for leaflets and unsanctioned flags.


"Only flags of Russia are allowed," said one policeman, as
another looked through a newspaper found in one of the
demonstrators' bags.


"In our country it's dangerous" to protest, said 61-year-old Olga
Nikonova, who was queuing to join a few hundred protesters hemmed
into a park.


"They detained me in the metro, took down my details and where I
live. They'll come and rob me tomorrow."


"This is what our glorious security services are doing. That's
why I came. I don't agree with these methods."


Earlier, hundreds of police officers blocked off Pushkin Square,
the starting point for the march, detaining people at random,
beating some with clubs before dragging them to police trucks.


Former prime minister Mikhail Kasyanov, one of the march's
organizers, said police had prevented the majority of marchers
from taking part.


"They took away dozens of people. We weren't able to gather on
the square," he said.


Fellow organizer, former chess champion Garry Kasparov was among
hundreds detained.


After being denied access to the square by a quickly-formed line
of riot police, Kasyanov and fellow liberal Irina Khakamada began
the march with a few dozen protesters -- their numbers quickly
swelling into the hundreds.


A few dozen activists from the maverick National Bolshevik
organization moved to the front, leading the march with flares
and flags, hammer and sickle against a red-and-white background.


After about a kilometre (0.6 miles) the protesters were
confronted with the first line of riot police who quickly
detained the National Bolsheviks, an outlawed organization.


Khakamada and Kasyanov disappeared, leaving a few dozen people
who were then trapped and arrested by the sting operation a few
hundred meters from their destination.

