

Madrid 2016 Olympics bid leader Mercedes Coghen said here
Saturday that she believes Chicago will now be a much tougher
rival than defeated Los Angeles.


Chicago won the United States nomination on Saturday, ahead of
LA.


"For Madrid, it's worse that it's Chicago. Los Angeles had a
strong Latino component which we are now offering but Chicago has
a very distinct style from that which Madrid is presenting," said
Coghen.


Coghen beleives that Chicago, which has never hosted the
Olympics, will appeal more to International Olympic Committee
members from Commonwealth countries than Los Angeles would have
done.


"We are orphans among the candidates but we are working now to
get closer to the voters from the Commonwealth, including with
the help of London (the hosts of the 2012 Olympics)."


"We want to know how we should treat them and how to get appeal
to them, especially those a long way from here, like Australia,"
added Coghen.


Despite being a confirmed rival, the 1992 women's hockey gold
medallist also had priase for Chicago's bid


"In their bid video, the images of the lake were beautiful. To
have water is a big advantage for a candidate because it gives a
lot of life to the city."


"But this is a road that is like a Rubik's Cube. With every move,
everything changes and you can return to the beginning," added
Coghen.


Madrid finished third in the voting for the 2012 Olympic Games,
just narrowly missing out to Paris and winners London.


Tokyo, Rio de Janiero, Baku, Doha and Prague have already
announced rival bids for the 2016 Olympics and other cities are
expected to join the chase.


The next Summer Olympics will be staged next year in Beijing.


The United States last hosted the Summer Games in 1996 when the
Centennial Olympics were staged in Atlanta.


The 2002 Winter Olympics, remembered for the 'votes-for-cash'
scandal surrounding its campaign, were staged in Salt Lake City.


Chicago was named the US candidate city for the 2016 Summer
Olympics, defeating co-finalist Los Angeles in voting by the US
Olympic Committee (USOC) Board of Directors earlier on Saturday.


The 11-member panel's decision came five months before final bids
are due to be submitted to the International Olympic Committee,
which will decide upon the host for the 2016 Olympics in October
2009.

