

Two suicide bombers targeted US interests in the Moroccan city of
Casablanca on Saturday, and police said they had arrested the
ringleader of a key militant cell.


Four days after three men blew themselves up in Morocco's port
city two men tried to gain access to US embassy facilities in the
port city but blew themselves up when challenged by police.


Several hours later Moroccan security services said they had
arrested the man thought to be the head of the group responsible
for Tuesday's deadly explosions and another a month ago.


The unnamed man, together with his deputy, was arrested in the
shantytown of Sidi Moumen, on the outskirts of Casablanca, in the
course of police investigations into Tuesday's explosions and
that of March 11 in which a total of five people died.


Police said they had discovered where the gang were making their
explosives and had also been able to identify the rest of the
group and were actively looking for them.


It was not clear whether the group was linked to the two men who
earlier Saturday approached a police checkpoint 100 meters
(yards) from the Dar America cultural centre in Casablanca,
requesting access to the building.


When asked for a reason, both men set off their explosives,
security officials said. A woman passerby was injured in the
blasts.


Other witnesses said that one of the men approached the US
consulate, the other the cultural centre and blew themselves up
one minute apart. Police are reportedly seeking a third man who
was with the two suicide bombers.


On Wednesday, Moroccan police said they were hunting for some 10
possible suicide bombers, a day after three bombers blew
themselves up in Sidi Moumen as they were pursued by police and
another was shot dead.


A police official said Saturday's incident was "a desperate act
in response to the successful crackdown in recent weeks by the
police and security services to dismantle terrorist cells".


One of the trio who killed themselves on Tuesday was the brother
of a man who died in a March 11 explosion at a Casablanca
Internet cafe that sparked the police hunt.


The latest blasts come just days after suicide bomb attacks at
two locations in the capital of neighbouring Algeria on
Wednesday, killing 33 people and injuring more than 220. One of
the blasts was outside the government headquarters.


On Saturday, the US embassy in Algiers issued a warning that
militants may be planning more attacks in the centre of the
capital.


"According to unconfirmed information, there may be attacks in
Algiers planned for April 14, 2007 in areas that may include the
Algiers Central Post Office ... and Algerian State Television
Headquarters, ENTV.., among others," an embassy statement said.

