

A Cypriot MEP being held at a British base on the island after he
was arrested during a visit by European MEPs was taken to
hospital Saturday following a two- day hunger strike.


Officials said MEP Marios Matsakis's condition was not serious
after he was transferred to a Cyprus hospital rather than to a
military hospital within British sovereign base areas (SBA).


Observers said this was a "convenient get-out" for the British
military after the MEP's arrest on Thursday for failing to pay
bail on charges of spraying graffiti in protest at Britain's
military presence in Cyprus.


"We have to wait to be advised if Mr Matsakis wishes to return to
his cell because we don't have jurisdiction or he could
voluntarily come back for due process of the law," British Forces
Cyprus spokesman Dennis Barnes told AFP.


The maverick Cypriot politician has been arrested several times
during protests demanding British troops leave Cyprus and refuses
to recognize SBA authority.


Barnes said Matsakis had difficulty digesting his medication
after going on hunger strike following his arrest and refusing to
take water and had been transferred so his health could be
monitored.


British SBA police intercepted a mini-bus carrying a delegation
of nine Euro MPs to a controversial antenna site at the air base
on Thursday, boarding the bus and taking Matsakis away in
handcuffs.


Cyprus made "strong protests" to Britain over the politician's
arrest and detention which it condemned, demanding his "immediate
release."


In April 2006, Matsakis allegedly sprayed graffiti on military
vehicles and bases property.


In court, he refused to pay the outstanding 300 Cyprus pounds
(700 dollars, 517 euros) bail, plus a 200-pound (466-dollar,
345-euro) non-payment penalty, saying he did not recognize the
British bases court.


The judge ruled Matsakis remain in custody until bail was paid or
until the next scheduled hearing in May.


Britain has had military bases on Cyprus since it gained
independence from its colonial ruler in 1960. Some 10,000
military personnel and their families are stationed on the
island.

