

UN nuclear watchdog chief Mohamed ElBaradei began a three-day
visit on Saturday for talks with officials on Jordan's aim to
acquire nuclear energy for peaceful use, officials said.


The head of the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency
was due to meet separately on Sunday with King Abdullah II, Prime
Minister Maaruf Bakhit, Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah Khatib and
other top officials.


His talks will cover Jordan's ambition to set up a nuclear plant
by 2015 to generate electricity, as well as the use of nuclear
technology in education and to desalinate water for the largely
desert kingdom, officials said.


Jordan imports 95 percent of all its energy needs and is one of
the 10 most water-impoverished countries in the world, with its
water deficit exceeding 500 million cubic metres a year,
according to official estimates.


"Jordan has for years been seeking alternative energy sources
that will help us alleviate the increasing burdens of importing
energy amid rising fuel prices," King Abdullah II said in an
interview last week with AFP.


"We in Jordan feel, as do other countries, the need to secure the
transfer and establishment of nuclear energy technology as an
alternative to importing oil for generating electricity and water
desalination," he said.


"This will help us fulfill our energy needs," he said, adding
that he will discuss the issue with ElBaradei.


According to Maher Hijjazin, director of Jordan's Natural
Resources Authority, the country has "tens of thousands of
tonnes" of uranium reserves.


"The uranium reserves in Jordan have not been specified and
determined to details, but we have definitely tens of thousands
of tonnes... and you can use a fraction of that for any project.
You don't need that much for powering nuclear plants," he told
AFP.


During his visit to Jordan ElBaradei will also visit an IAEA-
funded international research facility south of Amman. Jordan is
the third leg of a tour that has already taken him to Saudi
Arabia and Oman.

