

Paris St Germain boss Paul Le Guen will be sleeping a little
easier after his side secured a vital point in their battle to
avoid the drop after a 0-0 draw at Bordeaux on Saturday.


It was a match short on action and drama that proved a
disappointment for the hosts in their push for a Champions League
place.


Bordeaux rose to fifth in the standings but could fall several
places if other results later go against them.


For PSG, though, the draw moved them temporarily four points
clear of the bottom three as they followed up wins over Lens and
Le Mans with a third match in a row without defeat.


"That shows we're still in there with the rest of them, we're in
the battle," said Le Guen.


"The fact that we've taken seven points from a possible nine in
the last three matches is good for us but it's not enough, we
need seven more points but at least it allows us to be in a
better position."


Le Guen stuck to his recent selection policy of leaving his big
name players on the bench with Argentine playmaker Marcelo
Gallardo, Portuguese striker Pedro Pauleta and Ivory Coast
striker Bonaventure Kalou consigned to a spectator's role.


"I can sense the desire in our squad to get out of this. We have
to keep going and remain very concentrated. This will go on to
the end of the season," added Le Guen.


The result left the capital giants in 16th place but having been
deep in the relegation zone a couple of weeks ago, Le Guen will
be far from unhappy about the result.


There was not a single shot on target in an abysmal first half
but goalkeeper Mikael Landreau came to PSG's rescue several times
after the break.


Bordeaux's Brazilian boss Ricardo, a former PSG player, was not
happy with his team.


"I'm disappointed with our first half, but the second was
different," he said. "We dominated even if they had the best
chance. In the second half we saw the real Bordeaux."


If Toulouse and Lens fail to win in later games on Saturday,
champions Lyon can seal a record sixth straight title with
victory on Sunday.

