

Paris St Germain boss Paul Le Guen will be sleeping a little
easier after his side secured a vital point in their battle to
avoid the drop after a 0-0 draw at Bordeaux on Saturday.


It was a match short on action and drama that was in keeping with
a miserable day of football in France's top division.


Of the eight matches played, six ended 0-0 with only four goals
being scored, meaning that unless the two Sunday matches produce
at least five goals between them, it will represent the worst
ever haul of goals for a full league programme in the French
championship.


The previous record was just nine goals during the 1986/87
season, averaging 0.9 goals per game. This weekend's programme is
currently averaging 0.5 with only the Lyon-Sedan and Nice-St
Etienne matches to come to try to avoid breaking an unwanted
record.


The point did little to help Bordeaux's Champions League push,
although at least they did not drop any further out of contention
as their main rivals were all held to draws.


For PSG, though, the draw moved them temporarily four points
clear of the bottom three as they followed up wins over Lens and
Le Mans with a third match in a row without defeat.


"That shows we're still in there with the rest of them, we're in
the battle," said Le Guen.


"The fact that we've taken seven points from a possible nine in
the last three matches is good for us but it's not enough, we
need seven more points but at least it allows us to be in a
better position."


Le Guen stuck to his recent selection policy of leaving his big
name players on the bench with Argentine playmaker Marcelo
Gallardo, Portuguese striker Pedro Pauleta and Ivory Coast
striker Bonaventure Kalou consigned to a spectator's role.


"I can sense the desire in our squad to get out of this. We have
to keep going and remain very concentrated. This will go on to
the end of the season," added Le Guen.


The result left the capital giants in 16th place but having been
deep in the relegation zone a couple of weeks ago, Le Guen will
be far from unhappy about the result.


There was not a single shot on target in an abysmal first half
but goalkeeper Mikael Landreau came to PSG's rescue several times
after the break.


Bordeaux's Brazilian boss Ricardo, a former PSG player, was not
happy with his team.


"I'm disappointed with our first half, but the second was
different," he said. "We dominated even if they had the best
chance. In the second half we saw the real Bordeaux."


Toulouse ensured the championship race will head into another
weekend at least by beating Auxerre 2-0. Had both Toulouse and
Lens failed to win, Lyon could have sealed the title with a
victory at home to rock bottom Sedan on Sunday.


Lens were held to a draw by Nantes but goals from Achille Emana
and Fode Mansare cut the gap at the top between Lyon, 66, and
Toulouse, 52, to 14 points.


It means the five-in-a-row champions must wait until next weekend
at least to earn a record sixth title in a row - thus breaking
the previous record they set last season.


The only other game to produce goals was at Lille where the hosts
downed Sochaux 2-0 to move up to sixth.


Lens's point moved them onto 50 points and earned them a three-
point lead in the race for the final Champions League spot with
Sochaux fourth and Marseille, who drew at Valenciennes, next a
point further behind and ahead of Lille on goal difference.


Bordeaux are seventh on the same number of points, 46, with St
Etienne another point behind.

