

Defending World Cup champions England were hit with a double
injury blow on Saturday after it was revealed that two of its
World Cup winning team, talismanic fly-half Jonny Wilkinson and
centre Mike Tindall look likely to miss England's summer tour to
South Africa.


Both picked up the injuries during Newcastle's English
Premiership victory over Gloucester on Friday.


Tindall, the boyfriend of world three-day event champion Zara
Phillips, was stretchered off with a suspected broken leg and
treated in hospital after a "clash of legs" with England's
Newcastle centre Toby Flood.


"It was fairly obvious from the crack that Mike had broken his
leg," said Newcastle rugby director John Fletcher.


The injury-prone Wilkinson, who Flood brilliantly replaced for
the sole defeat Six Nations champions France suffered in the
campaign, has damaged rib cartilage and will be out "for a short
period".


"He did it last week and aggravated it again tonight," Fletcher
added.


"We can't say how long until the doctors have had a look at it."


Tindall went back to Gloucester on Friday with a cast on his
lower leg and is believed to have broken his tibia.


Flood went straight over to his England team-mate at the first
break in play after the incident early in the second half.


"I understand he's broken his leg," said Flood, who ironically
along with Tindall scored both of England's tries in their 26-18
victory at Twickenham on March 11.


"It's deeply depressing. I hope he gets well soon.


"I stepped inside him and it was instinctive for him to stretch
out his leg."


Gloucester coach Dean Ryan, who also lost another England player,
like Wilkinson the equally injury-prone Iain Balshaw, with a dead
leg, said Tindall had undergone an X-ray on his shin and expected
to learn more details over the weekend.


If the break is confirmed, Tindall will certainly miss the
Premiership play- offs, for which Gloucester secured their place
on Friday with a bonus point in defeat, and in all probability
England's two-Test tour to South Africa.


They play the Springboks in Bloemfontein on May 26, and the
second Test on June 2 in Pretoria.


England coach Brian Ashton's squad is already likely to be
severely depleted with the likelihood of either Wasps or
Leicester, or both, being involved in the European Cup final on
20 May, five days after England leave for South Africa.

