

Chad's foreign minister on Saturday said his country wanted to
turn the page on soured relations with Sudan after deadly border
clashes between Sudanese and Chadian soldiers earlier in the
week.


"Chad wants peace and to turn the page with Sudan," Ahmat Allami
told journalists after handing President Omar al-Beshir a letter
from Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno explaining the
circumstances of the April 9 clashes.


Relations between the two countries nosedived after the fighting
which Sudan said killed 17 of its soldiers and the Chadians say
killed 30 overall.


Some Sudanese officials had threatened retaliation, but others
also hinted that they had accepted a Chadian apology.


Allami said a committee had been set up in Chad to determine who
was responsible for the clashes but repeated his position that
Chadian forces went into Sudan to pursue rebels.


He proposed setting up an accord that would allow Chad to pursue
what he called Sudan-based rebels back into Sudan.


Sudanese foreign ministry official Abdel Rahman Mokhtar said that
in the letter Deby had apologised for the incursion and said he
wanted to "turn over a new page in relations between the two
countries."


"President Beshir was understanding and affirmed his desire to
work with Mr Deby Itno to bury the differences" between the two
countries. He said Deby also expressed his desire to visit
Khartoum.


Libya sent its number two diplomat Abdel Salam Triki to both
capitals in a bid to ease tensions, obtaining a commitment on
Thursday from Beshir to maintain good relations with the
neighbouring country.


Chad has apologised for the cross-border action of its forces,
explaining that it was not deliberate and that they were in hot
pursuit of rebels who had just attacked several Chadian villages.


Chad and Sudan accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Sudan's western Darfur region will spill
over into Chad and ignite a regional war.

