

Dozens of Major League Baseball players will wear jersey number
42 on Sunday to honor the 60th anniversary of Jackie Robinson
breaking the color barrier to become the first black major
leaguer.


But the tribute comes as the number of black players in American
baseball has shrunk to its smallest level since the 1960s, just
72 players or 8.4 percent of all major league rosters according
to a university study.


"He would think the struggle is still on and he would not be
satisfied with where we are," Rachel Robinson, widow of the
pioneer who died in 1972 at age 53, told USA Today.


Robinson, whose number 42 was retired for all Major League
Baseball clubs at ceremonies 10 years ago in New York, played for
the Brooklyn Dodgers and was the National League's Rookie of the
Year in 1947.


Withstanding racial insults and slights in an era of
discrimination, Robinson was a trail blazer for black rights and
such modern-day stars as Derek Jeter, Ken Griffey Jnr and Barry
Bonds.


The Dodgers, now based in Los Angeles, will honor Robinson by
having every player wear jersey number 42 for their home game
here Sunday.


But this year, Major League Baseball has only four black starting
pitchers, one of them being Florida's Dontrelle Willis, who
realizes the contribution Robinson made.


"Every time I go up on the mound, I take my race and my family
out there," Willis told the Philadelphia Inquirer. "You can never
say my effort level wasn't there, as far as going out there and
taking pride on my shoulders and saying, 'Work hard and try to
open the door like they opened the door for me.'"


Cleveland's C.C. Sabathia, another US black starting hurler, said
baseball officials do not see the problem because they consider
such players as New York Mets infielder Jose Reyes, who is
Dominican, and Carlos Delgado, who is Puerto Rican, as blacks
rather than Hispanic.


"I don't think people see the problem. They see players like
Reyes and Delgado and assume they're black," Sabathia told the
Inquirer.


"I wasn't trying to criticize Major League Baseball or nothing
like that. I was trying to say, 'Hey, I'm here, but I don't have
all the answers, either. I just want to help.'


"Hopefully we can get something done because, when you talk (so
few) starters in the entire two leagues, that's a tragedy."


A University of Central Florida study last month said only 8.4
percent of major league players are black compared to 59.5
percent being white and nearly 30 percent of Latino heritage.


In 1995, 19 percent of US major league players were black, the
study said, but by 2005 the Houston Astros reached the World
Series without a black player on the roster.


"I don't think we're saying every African American athlete has to
be a baseball player," Jimmie Lee Solomon, Major League
Baseball's executive vice president of baseball operations, told
the Inquirer.


"But we have the longest historical link to the black community.
It would be a shame to let it go."


Baseball, the favorite American sport in the 1950s, has been
overtaken in the US sport culture by basketball and American
football and stars such as Tiger Woods in golf and Serena and
Venus Williams in tennis have shown other paths to sporting
stardom.


Major League Baseball has started youth programs to combat the
exodus but the numbers continue to shrink.


"We've got to figure out what we're going to do in light of that
to try and make baseball cool to young people," Solomon said.


And Robinson's widow can only wonder if the diversity that has
brought Asian and Latino stars to Major League Baseball in record
numbers has bypassed blacks.


"I would have liked to have seen an increase in African-American
inclusion in the game," she said. "The diversity is there in
terms of the Latinos and also bringing in Asians... so for that I
can applaud them.


"Yet for me, diversity right now is not the issue. It's more the
inclusion."

