

As chess champion Garry Kasparov was almost unbeatable, but from
the Moscow police station where he was held Saturday the great
tactician pondered a much tougher game -- how to bring down
Russian President Vladimir Putin.


Kasparov, who made mincemeat of his opponents for 15 years after
he became World Chess Champion in 1985, is one of the disparate
figures leading The Other Russia coalition that held a banned
protest march Saturday in central Moscow.


Some 200 people were detained, among them the former chess king,
when they defied a police warning and attempted to march on the
capital's Pushkin Square.


Kasparov, a famously aggressive chess player, clearly thought the
risk worthwhile -- particularly given the huge international
media presence at the rally.


The same strategy of peaceful disobedience was used at two
previous Other Russia marches in the former imperial capital
Saint Petersburg and Nizhny Novgorod, east of Moscow, resulting
in beatings and arrests.


Moscow police were clearly furious.


Kasparov was arrested because "he came and began to provoke
police into taking harsh action, while knowing that the
demonstration on Pushkin Square was forbidden," a police
spokesman was quoted as saying by Interfax.


This intense man of 44, recognisable by his bushy eyebrows and
dark features, makes an unlikely political leader in today's
Russia.


Half-Jewish, half-Armenian and born during the Soviet Union in
Azerbaijan, he is automatically a hate figure for Russia's
significant number of ultra- nationalists. And his fierce
opposition to Putin is out of step with the vast majority shown
by polls to admire the former KGB officer.


But Kasparov's main talent seems to lie in coordinating Russia's
fractured and marginalised opposition.


The Other Russia, which he helped found, includes figures as
disparate as a little-loved former premier Mikhail Kasyanov, the
enigmatic writer and radical left leader Eduard Limonov, and a
series of youth groups.


Their stated goal is to ensure that the March 2008 presidential
election, in which Putin is to be replaced, will be fair.


"Our demands are simple," Kasparov said when he announced his
retirement two years ago. "It's about putting pressure on Putin's
regime to restore democratic institutions."


Life on the political chessboard has been far from easy.


After the brutal murder in Moscow of investigative journalist
Anna Politikovskaya, a fierce Putin critic, in October Kasparov
said he feared for his safety.


"I try to protect myself and my family as much as possible but I
am aware that no protection is possible," he said in an interview
published in a Portuguese daily.


During a 2005 tour to meet grass roots groups in the troubled
North Caucasus region, Kasparov found his way repeatedly blocked.


Planned venues for meetings were mysteriously closed ahead of his
arrival and police stood by as youths hurled eggs and tomato
sauce.


Kasparov gives the impression of being angry, but he apparently
retains a sense of humour.


After being hit by a member of the public with a chess board, he
quipped: "I'm glad that in the Soviet Union the popular sport was
chess and not baseball."

