

A double for Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink handed Celtic a 2-1
victory over St Johnstone at Hampden to book their Scottish Cup
final place.


The Dutch international's brace saw off a brave challenge from
the First Division side, who had drawn level through Stephen
McManus's own goal and battled with their more illustrious
opponents to the final whistle of Saturday's semi-final.


Celtic had lived up to their favourites' billing in the opening
stages, forcing St Johnstone onto the back foot.


In the second minute defender McManus had missed a chance to put
the Parkhead side ahead when he blasted over from 10-yards after
St Johnstone goalkeeper Kevin Cuthbert fumbled Lee Naylor's
cross.


St Johnstone struggled to get out of their own half in the early
stages but in the 11th minute they almost opened the scoring.


Peter MacDonald's first time pass beat the offside trap to put
Jason Scotland through on goal but the Trinidad and Tobago
international's shot was too close to Celtic's Polish goalkeeper
Artur Boruc who saved comfortably.


Celtic were spurred into action by the near miss and they duly
took the lead in the 13th minute.


Vennegoor of Hesselink latched on to a poor header by St
Johnstone defender Kevin James before rounding Cuthbert, who
appeared to catch the Dutchman's leg, causing him to fall to the
ground.


Referee Charlie Richmond pointed to the penalty spot but
television replays suggested the keeper had made little contact
with the Celtic striker.


Nevertheless, Vennegoor of Hesselink took full advantage of the
award with a low shot which struck the bottom of the post before
finding the net.


This could have signalled the start of a Celtic walkover against
their lower league opponents but in the 19th minute St Johnstone
were back on level terms.


Paul Sheerin's cross into the heart of the penalty area found
MacDonald who took a touch before lifting the ball over the head
of Artur Boruc.


Although McManus managed to get his head to the ball on the line
he could only help it into the net.


Celtic came out of the half-time break in a positive frame of
mind and within 10 minutes of the restart they regained their
lead.


A clever lay off from Derek Riordan created space for Paul
Hartley to shoot from 18-yards, forcing Cuthbert to dive to his
left and turn round the post for a corner in the 54th minute.


However, the save only delayed Celtic's second goal.


Japanese star Shunsuke Nakamura took the corner-kick, curling the
ball towards the front post where Vennegoor of Hesselink was
lurking to send an unstoppable header past Cuthbert from close
range.


Martin Hardie forced Boruc into a good save in the 72nd minute
when he met Sheerin's free-kick with a powerful header which
required the Polish international to save at full-stretch
underneath his crossbar.


Two minutes later Celtic stopper McManus made amends for scoring
in his own net.


Hardie played in Scotland with a delightful chipped pass and the
Trinidadian rolled the ball under Boruc towards goal only for
McManus to slide in to make a dramatic goal-line clearance.


The Saints were denied a late leveller in the 88th minute when
Sheerin's powerful drive was palmed away by Boruc low to his
left.


Celtic will now play either Hibernian or Dunfermline, who play
the other semi at Hampden on Sunday, in the final on Saturday,
May 26.

