

England's Laura Davies and Mexico's Lorena Ochoa will take their
duel for the LPGA Ginn Open down to the wire.


Davies and Ochoa - a former world No. 1 and an aspiring world No.
1 - remained tied for the lead in the 2.6 million-dollar
tournament after the third round on Saturday, the third straight
day they finished together atop the leaderboard.


Both players opened with back-to-back rounds of 6-under 66 and
signed for matching 70s on Saturday.


At 14-under 202, the pair were four strokes clear of Americans
Brittany Lincicome (67) and Natalie Gulbis (71).


For 43-year-old Davies, the goal is to end a six-year victory
drought in America and take another step towards a place in the
LPGA Tour Hall of Fame.


The former world No. 1 won a tournament in Norway last year on
her way to topping the European Tour money list, but she is keen
to gain the two LPGA victories she needs for the Hall of Fame.


For Ochoa, there is also an added incentive. If she wins here she
will take over from Annika Sorenstam as world No.1. The Swedish
superstar withdrew this week due to a back injury that will keep
her out for at least a month.


After a 49-minute fog delay, Davies made the better start with
three birdies in a front nine of 33, but she suffered a huge
setback with a double-bogey six at the unlucky 13th and went on
to drop another shot at 14.


Ochoa had the lead but slipped up with bogeys at the 14th and
16th and both made birdies at 18 to set the stage for another
head-to-head battle over the final 18 holes.


It was a drive into a bush at the 13th that caused Davies to lose
her momentum.


"It was disappointing," she said. "It was one bad shot and it
cost me two shots. But it was good to battle back and get into a
tie again. We're four shots ahead, but it won't be just about the
two of us.


"There are lots of birdies and eagles to be made out there.
Someone could shoot really low."


The weather forecast for the final day is for strong winds and
cool temperatures. But Davies, who includes four majors among her
20 LPGA titles, is capable of winning whatever the conditions.


Ochoa, 25, won six titles last season en route to Player of the
Year honors and has already won the Safeway International this
season. She is almost certain to become world No. 1 within the
next few weeks, even if it doesn't happen on Sunday.


In the fourth round, she insisted, "All I'll be thinking about is
winning this tournament."

