

US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Saturday urged the IMF to
"re-invent itself" by according a stronger voice to emerging
market countries and firming up its exchange rate surveillance.


"The world is fast changing again," Paulson told a meeting of
International Monetary Fund policymakers meeting here.


"For the IMF to remain modern and relevant, it must re-invent
itself."


Under US and European domination since its creation at the end of
World War II, the IMF has traditionally been a lender of last
resort to countries struggling financially.


But 10 years after crisis swept through east Asian economies, the
Fund is seen as barely relevant to fast-emerging powers like
China.


Talk of an Asian monetary fund has revived, while Latin American
countries are moving ahead with their own multilateral lending
initiative.


In addition countries such as Argentina and Brazil have been
paying off their IMF debts early, eager to escape the Washington
institution's economic tutelage.


"The IMF's governance structure needs to be overhauled," Paulson
argued. "The Fund no longer looks like the world economy in which
we live ...


"Bold action is needed to boost the share of dynamic emerging
market countries," which he said are now responsible for an
increasing share of global output and "will increasingly drive
global growth."


The IMF steering committee, meeting in Singapore last September,
approved a first stage of reforms, including a decision to
enhance the voting power of China, South Korea, Turkey and
Mexico.


But IMG Managing Director Rodrigo de Rato has since acknowledged
that far- reaching reform measures have met some resistance among
richer members reluctant to see their stature diminished.


"We continue to support protecting the shares of the poorest
countries through an increase in basic votes," Paulson said,
repeating Washington's willingness to forgo an additional quota
due the United States.


"We reiterate our as of yet largely unheard call on other
similarly situated countries to join us in doing this," he added.


Paulson also re-asserted Washington's insistence that the IMF
take a more muscular approach to currency volatility.


"Let us be clear: exercising firm surveillance over members'
exchange rate policies is the core function of the institution,"
he said.


"For us, reform of the IMF's foreign exchange surveillance is the
lynchpin on which other reforms depend, and we look forward to
action in this important area very soon..."


The US insistence on vigorous IMF action reflects Bush
administration frustration with what it sees as China's
reluctance to allow greater flexibility for the yuan, which
according to the United States is unfairly undervalued.


The relatively weak Chinese currency, according to the US
argument, makes Chinese goods more attractive on US markets and
threatens jobs held by American workers.


The eurozone too has deep currency concerns, most of which center
on a sliding Japanese yen, seen by eurozone planners as a threat
to exports and ultimately economic growth.

