

The scene is set for the most competitive America's Cup in the
156 years of sport's oldest trophy, Peter Isler, skipper of the
US challenger BMW Oracle predicted here on Saturday.


The American vessel - heralded playfully by its German backer as
the first 18-seater convertible it's ever produced - is one of 11
challengers who from Monday will join battle in the Louis Vuitton
Cup to determine which of them tackles defender Alinghi in June's
America's Cup.


With a record 10 countries and five continents including first
timers China, South Africa and Germany, represented the 32nd
edition of the yachting blue riband is the most international
ever staged.


And the toughest, according to Isler who was part of Dennis
Conner's dual winning Stars And Stripes crew.


"There's a deeper fleet this time and compared to previous Cups
the boat speeds are closer, racing will be tight, I reckon it'll
be the closest yet," he said.


Isler, speaking at a press conference, praised Valencia for
preparing what he described as "the best America's Cup venue
ever".


"There's never been a venue even close to what we have here. It's
a great boon to the competition to have this arena."


Spain's third city was chosen over Marseille to host the return
of the Cup to Europe for the first time since the inaugural
edition as rules dictate it must be held on seawater, ruling out
Switzerland.


America, holders of the Cup from the first Cup in 1851 through to
1983, are desperate to reclaim what they used to regard as
rightfully theirs.


And the determination of the American team to ensure the coveted
trophy returns to their shores after an absence of a decade and a
half can be measured by the amount of investment - put at well
over 120 million euros - ploughed into their challenge.


Four of the past six winners of the Louis Vuitton Cup, which runs
from Monday through to June 16, have gone on to defeat the
defender, and as the phoney war since Alinghi stunned Team New
Zealand in Auckland draws to a close the tension was appreciably
taut at Valencia's purposebuilt marina.


"With only two days to go I keep telling myself this should be
the fun part, when we get to go racing. But there's so much money
and prestige involved of course there's pressure," said Isler.


"Carl Lewis came by the base the other day and pointed out
there's nothing we can do now. And as Dennis Connor said -
'somebody's already won and somebody's already lost the America's
Cup, you can't control it'.


"Sure there are butterflies, mixed in with a lot of fun."


Oracle are favourites to go on to meet Alinghi in the America's
Cup match from June 23 along with Team New Zealand.


The Kiwis are out to exact revenge after their 5-0 humiliation in
Auckland in 2003 and as if that wasn't enough stress they have
the added pressure of the presence of New Zealand Prime Minister
Helen Clark as 18th 'man' in their boat on Monday.


"We haven't talked about the protocol of how to address her but
I'm sure she won't be too happy if she gets soaked," smiled the
team's skipper, Dean Barker.


The 31-year-old, married to a former New Zealand hockey
international, was at the helm of that drubbing four years ago,
and is desperate to gain redress against his Swiss conqueror.


"For me 2003 seems a long, long time ago.


"After all the hours testing New Zealand are ready to put their
best foot forward. We're ready to go racing and hopefully get a
good result.


"And it's great to have the PM on board as if it hadn't been for
the New Zealand government putting their hand up after the last
defence we wouldn't be here."

