

Sunderland moved a step closer to winning the Championship on
Saturday as nearest rivals Derby stumbled in the race to secure
promotion back to the Premiership.


Roy Keane's side, who stormed to the top of the table last
weekend, saw off struggling visitors QPR 2-1, while Derby lost
2-1 at mid-table Ipswich.


Third-placed Birmingham took full advantage, beating play-off
chasing visitors Southampton by the same score to go one point
behind Derby and five behind Sunderland.


Birmingham have four matches left, while all the other promotion-
chasing sides have just three.


In front of 39,206 fans at the Stadium of Light, Grant Leadbitter
was the hero again with a late winner for Sunderland.


His goal sent Sunderland top of the table in last week's 2-1 win
at Southampton and the midfielder came off the bench to hit a
76th-minute winner.


Fellow midfielder Dean Whitehead opened the scoring in the
seventh minute but Martin Rowlands had equalised with a penalty
in the 23rd minute.


At Portman Road, Derby were stung by an 89th-minute penalty in a
seething encounter which saw 10 yellow cards and two reds issued.


Matt Oakley put the visiting Rams ahead nine minutes in but
former Arsenal, Everton and one-time England striker Francis
Jeffers equalised on 69 minutes.


Ipswich striker Danny Haynes, brought down in the penalty box 10
minutes after being sent on, then put a serious dent in Derby's
title hopes as he converted the spot kick.


Birmingham's Denmark striker Nicklas Bendtner ended his goal
drought in the clahs at St Andrews.


The 19-year-old, on loan from Arsenal, scored the Blues' decisive
second 10 minutes from time for his first goal in eight games.


Tunisia defender Radhi Jaidi's header put Birmingham in front and
Poland striker Marek Saganowski pulled one back for the Saints
five minutes from time.


Preston are fourth, six points behind Birmingham in the second of
four play-off spots after a 4-0 win at Coventry, with Chris
Sedgwick, David Nugent and Brett Ormerod's two goals doing the
damage.


West Bromwich, who lost 1-0 at home to Sheffield Wednesday on
Friday, are fifth, a point behind Preston.


The Baggies' bitter rivals Wolverhampton are sixth on goal
difference following their 2-2 draw at Crystal Palace, achieved
despite Mark Little's first half red card.


Leeds, Southend and Luton remain in the bottom three, despite
2001 Champions League semi-finalists Leeds's 1-0 win at home to
Burnley.


In League One directly below, table-toppers Scunthorpe United
secured promotion with a 2-0 win over visitors Huddersfield.
Bristol City stay second and twice European Cup winners
Nottingham Forest remain third as they attempt the long crawl
back to the top flight.


Meanwhile in League Two, Hartlepool and Walsall secured promotion
to League One and sorry Torquay were relegated out of the
Football League to the Conference National.

