

A senior US official Tuesday held talks with Polish authorities
on Washington's contentious plan to construct part of an anti-
missile defence system in central Europe, Poland's defence
ministry said.


US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried met with Polish
Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo in Warsaw, ministry
spokesman Jaroslaw Rybak said.


"It was a working meeting. The discussion covered the missions in
Afghanistan and Iraq and aspects of the deployment of parts of
the anti-missile shield in Europe," Rybak told AFP, without
elaborating.


"The meeting was held at the request of the American side," he
said.


The United States wants to base 10 interceptor missiles in Poland
and install a powerful radar in the Czech Republic -- components
of a larger anti-missile system that Washington says is meant to
guard against threats from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and the plan is to have the system
operational by 2011-2012.


Moscow has protested against the construction of a defence system
on its doorstep and has warned it could aim missiles at Poland
and the Czech Republic if they allow parts of the shield on their
soil.


US officials insist that the system poses no threat to Russia.


Several powerful European countries, notably Germany, have urged
Washington to do more to address Moscow's concerns.


A recent opinion poll in Poland found that 51 percent of those
surveyed opposed the plan to base the shield in their country,
while 30 percent were in favour.


Two-thirds of respondents said they wanted a national referendum
on the issue.


The missile plan has also sparked widespread opposition in the
Czech Republic.


Both Poland and the Czech Republic have become staunch US allies
since the collapse of the communist bloc in 1989. The two
countries joined NATO in 1999.


Poland is one of the leading contributors of troops to the US-led
operation in Iraq as well as NATO's security force in
Afghanistan.

