

An explosion at a Texas oil refinery run by BP two years ago,
which killed 15 workers and marked the worst US industrial
accident since 1990, was caused by "safety deficiencies," a US
government probe concluded Tuesday.


The US Chemical Safety Board (CSB) blamed a lax safety culture
"at all levels of the BP Corporation" for the March 2005 refinery
blast, which also injured 180 people, in its final report into
the disaster.


The CSB was to hold a public meeting later Tuesday in Texas City,
Texas, where the sprawling BP plant is located, to formally
present its findings.


Its board will vote at the meeting on whether or not to approve
the findings and related safety recommendations.


"The boards of directors of oil and chemical companies should
examine every detail of their process safety programs to ensure
that no other terrible tragedy like the one at BP occurs," said
CSB chairman Carolyn Merritt.


BP reiterated in a statement that it had "apologized to those
harmed" by the accident in response to the report.


"While we cannot change the past or repair all the damage this
incident caused, we have worked diligently to provide fair
compensation, without the need for lengthy court proceedings, to
those who were injured and to the families of those who died,"
the British energy group said.


Following almost two years of sifting through wreckage and
millions of internal BP documents as well as interviewing
employees, the investigators' findings were highly critical of
BP.


"The Texas City disaster was caused by organizational and safety
deficiencies at all levels of the BP Corporation," the report
stated.


"Warning signs of a possible disaster were present for several
years, but company officials did not intervene to prevent it,"
investigators concluded.


The CSB said BP had targeted the refinery, the third-largest oil
refinery in the United States, for cost cuts prior to the blast
even though much of the plant's equipment was in disrepair.


"Cost-cutting and budget pressures from BP Group executive
managers impaired process safety performance at Texas City," the
report said.


The explosion occurred after a tower at the refinery overfilled,
partly as a result of faulty gauges, spilling highly flammable
liquid into another piece of equipment which triggered a large
explosion and fire.


All 15 deaths occurred in or near work trailers close to the
blast.


The accident resulted in financial losses for BP exceeding 1.5
billion dollars.


BP was forced to pay a 21 million dollar penalty to the US
government for "violations" related to the accident. The CSB
report urged BP to appoint an additional board member to oversee
safety issues.


"Notwithstanding the company's strong disagreement with some of
the content of the CSB report, particularly many of the findings
and conclusions, BP will give full and careful consideration to
CSB's recommendations, in conjunction with the many activities
already underway to improve process safety management," BP said.


The global energy firm has agreed confidential settlements with
the relatives of those killed in the blast and changed some of
its safety procedures in the wake of the blast.


BP, which markets itself as a caring, environmentally conscious
energy company, has also set aside over one billion dollars for
potential compensation claims from injured workers, and is also
donating at least 32 million dollars to different schools and
colleges under a private lawsuit.


BP executive Tony Hayward is due to replace John Browne as the
firm's chief executive following his retirement on August 1.


The CSB final report followed preliminary findings which had also
criticized BP's safety culture.

