

Confidence was the key to Bangladesh's sensational start in the
ongoing Cricket World Cup in the Caribbean, according to coach
Dav Whatmore.


Habibul Bashar's Bangladeshis turned the form-book upside down
when they outplayed regional heavyweights India by five wickets
in their opening match at the Queen's Park Oval here on Saturday.


It was only their second victory over a Test-playing nation in
one-day cricket's showpiece event since making their Cup debut in
1999 in England, having beaten Pakistan eight years ago.


Bangladesh now need to win at least one of their remaining two
Group B matches against Sri Lanka and first-timers Bermuda to
boost hopes of qualifying for the next Super Eight stage.


Bermuda have lost both of their matches against Sri Lanka and
India.


When asked what was the main difference between the current
Bangladeshi side and the previous ones, Whatmore said: "There is
more self-belief.


"The Bangladeshi side of two or three years ago might not to be
able to overhaul the target of 192 against India."


Bangladesh comfortably surpassed India's total of 191 in the
previous game, with teenagers Tamim Iqbal, Mushfiqur Rahim and
Saqibul Hasan all making impressive half-centuries.


"A lot of these boys are willing to work a lot harder out in the
middle in difficult periods. That's the main difference. Our
bowling attack too has come along well," he said.


"The fielding has improved and I was very pleased with what I saw
(against India). The catching's good. Our ground fielding is an
area we would like to improve even further."


Bangladesh have been doing well after arriving in the Caribbean
earlier than other sides. They won both of their warm-up matches
against New Zealand and Scotland before stunning India in their
opening Cup game.


"We wanted to have very good preparations first. We got to the
West Indies before any other team. A particularly good game
against New Zealand gave us confidence and we had another victory
against Scotland," said Whatmore.


"These games have given us confidence. In the bigger match, what
we are trying to do is to replicate good things we did in
previous matches."


Whatmore was also the coach of Sri Lanka's 1996 World Cup-winning
squad, but said it was premature to compare the current
Bangladeshi side with that team.


"With Bangladesh, it's the similar philosophy. We all need to
contribute, whether as a coach, captain, fast bowler or spinner.
It's probably a little bit premature to compare the Bangladesh
team with that Sri Lankan team," he said.


"But it was a very significant victory (against India). It gives
us a reasonable chance to go on and realise our first objective,
which is to get to the Super Eight stage."


Whatmore was all praise for the teenagers, saying they had been
improving with every match.


"Tamim probably learnt his lessons from the match with New
Zealand. He's got a bit to learn still, but he has got the
ability to be an asset to any team. Hasan's learning and is
learing pretty fast. So is Rahim," he said.


Left-handed opener Tamim scored a 48-ball 46 in his team's upset
win over New Zealand in the practice game and then smashed a
53-ball 51 against India.

