

Mushtaq Ahmed admitted that the Pakistan team is having a hard
time coming out from under the depression that has engulfed them
following the death of coach Bob Woolmer.


The 36-year-old Mushtaq, the former Pakistan leg-spin bowler,
will act in the post of coach for the final World Cup Group D
match against Zimbabwe on Wednesday at Sabina Park, following
Woolmer's death on Sunday.


"There is a great vacuum because Bob was a part of the family,"
said Mushtaq.


"When you lose a member of the family, we all know how bad it can
be. The whole team is depressed right now. The boys - and even me
- have been totally depressed."


The Pakistan team held its first training session on Tuesday,
since the 58-year- old Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel
room on Sunday, and pronounced dead a few hours later in
hospital.


His death came a day after Pakistan lost their second straight
match in the World Cup to make an early exit from the competition
following two defeats to hosts West Indies and part-timers
Ireland.


"This is the only time that we have been able to come out and
loosen ourselves because we have to give our best in the game on
Wednesday," Mushtaq said.


"It's a very difficult time, and all we can do is try. We are
trying to overcome the emotions. We are making an effort. We are
a professional side, and we will give of our best, but it will
not be easy."


Mushtaq described the death of Woolmer as "the biggest blow that
has befallen the Pakistan team".


"I have been going around to the different rooms, talking to the
boys, and trying to get them out, and lift their spirits because
there were far too low," he said.


"We have lost a father figure to all of us and we'll give our
best shot in Wednesday's match.


"We are talking about someone losing their life. Though I have
tried to lighten the mood and cheer the boys up, I myself am
feeling very low.


"You are talking about someone dying. It's a tremendous shock and
it's very difficult to recover. I myself can't do it, but life
must go on."


Mushtaq disclosed the team was also trying to come to grips with
the shocking announcement from Inzamam-ul-Haq that he was
quitting the captaincy and one-day international cricket.


"Inzy is a very good captain and he is very good role model for
this team," Mushtaq said.


"He has been an inspiration for this side. When he took up the
job, we had a number of young players, and he nurtured them.
There were times when he would sacrifice his own practice, and
allow the younger players to have time in the nets.


"This shows how much of a team man Inzy has been, and following
his announcement, many of the players went to his room to express
their gratitude for all his guidance, and informed him that
Pakistan had lost another good man."


Mushtaq didn't think it would be difficult being coach alongside
a player who had been his teammate four years ago.


"We were teammates, and we spent a lot of time together," he
said.


"But one of things that I remembered Bob impressing upon every
member of the side is that we all had a role to play.


"Therefore, Inzamam is the captain, and I am the coach, so I will
have to do whatever is necessary to help the team."


Pakistan lost their opening match of the World Cup to West Indies
by 54 runs last Tuesday, then they were stung by Ireland last
Saturday when they succumbed by three wickets.

