

The UN Security Council was to begin Wednesday crucial bargaining
on whether to approve new UN sanctions against Iran as proposed
by six major powers or accept some amendments.


The sanctions package is contained in a draft resolution agreed
last week by ambassadors of the Council's five veto-wielding
members (P5)-- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United
States -- plus Germany.


The draft, which toughens UN sanctions already imposed in
December in response to Tehran's continued refusal to halt
sensitive nuclear fuel work, was presented last week to the
Council's 10 non-permanent members for their comments.


The closed-door meeting marks the first time envoys of all 15
council members have an opportunity to compare notes on the text
and on amendments offered by South Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


The council members also were to decide when to put the text to a
vote, with the Western sponsors hoping this could happen as early
as this week.


The United Nations, meanwhile, is gearing up for the imminent
arrival of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who wants to
address the Security Council when it votes on the new sanctions
resolution.


Washington said it approved visas for Ahmadinejad and his
delegation and the US acting ambassador to the UN, Alejandro
Wolff, said Tuesday that, although he was not aware of the
Iranians' travel plans, "I assume they will be in time for
adoption of the resolution."


The new draft bans Tehran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


South Africa has proposed a 90-day suspension of the UN sanctions
to allow "space for technical discussions at the IAEA
(International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring
agency) and political negotiations (with Tehran) ... to achieve a
peaceful and negotiated solution."


South Africa, a non-permanent member which chairs the Council
this month, also put forward other amendments, including deleting
the weapons ban and many financial sanctions, which if accepted
would gut much of the draft, according to Western diplomats.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
Tuesday that Qatar and Indonesia also proposed amendments which
he said were more acceptable to the draft's sponsors than the
South African proposals.


"We have a very good draft resolution text that builds on the
1737 framework (the Security Council sanctions resolution adopted
in December). It has met with the agreement of the P5 and other
members of the Council," Wolff said Tuesday.


"Others still have some questions and additional ideas, we will
hear them out and look forward to getting this resolution adopted
this week ... It's not a take-it-or-leave-it text, we will
discuss ideas and how to improve it," he added.


Asked about South Africa's call for a 90-day time-out in the UN
sanctions, Wolff replied: "Resolution 1737 in essence already
calls for suspension by the Council of all measures once Iran
verifiably suspends its activities. There's your time- out, it's
built into 1737."


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful use.


Tuesday, Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki discussed
the nuclear standoff with South African President Thabo Mbeki in
Cape Town for about an hour but there was no word on what they
said.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only.

