

Thousands of women in Sierra Leone on Tuesday rallied the
authorities to speed up the adoption of new laws protecting them
from violence and abuse.


Some 10,000 women thronged the national sports stadium in the
small west African country's capital calling on the parliament to
ensure that the bills are passed before the current legislature
winds up ahead of the July general elections.


The proposed laws are aimed at stemming violence against women
and girls in the family, the registration of customary marriages
or divorces and the fair distribution of the estate in event of a
spouse's death.


A recent study by a local non-governmental organisation, Gender
Watch, found that 67 percent of urban women in Sierra Leone were
regularly beaten by intimate male partners and over 50 percent
reported having been forced to have sexual intercourse.


"While some violence does not leave the victim wounded, it often
escalates and there are regular instances of violence to death or
permanent disability," said the report published earlier this
year.


"Under customary law, a husband has the right to administer
reasonable chastisement to his wife.... He can beat her but not
to the extent of wounding her," said the report.


Yasmin Fofanah, head of Mano River Union Women's Peace Network,
told the Tuesday rally that "the bills are important for women of
Sierra Leone to get these rights."


She urged President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, who will step down after
the July elections, "to put your shoulder to the bills and leave
them as your legacy. Give the women of Sierra Leone something
concrete that we can remember you for."


The bills are yet to be tabled in parliament.


The one on inheritance and succession is aimed at protecting
women in the event of the death of a husband.


"It will ensure that women have the right to participate in the
distribution of their husband's estate, women and children will
be protected so that they would not be evicted from their homes,"
said lawyer Susan Adams.

