

A solar-powered airship that replaces communications satellites
is one of a series of high tech projects that can help bridge the
"digital divide," the organisers of an Information Technology
fund for poor countries said Tuesday.


The Digital Solidarity Fund was launched by African leaders and
European public authorities at a UN summit two years ago to bring
modern communications to an estimated 80 percent of the world
population in poor countries that are unconnected.


The Fund said at a board meeting that a dozen community-based
projects in Africa and one in Asia had got off the ground.


They mainly involve teleconferencing facilities for medicine and
education.


However, the Fund is facing further financing requests for
projects worth 26 million euros, officials told a board meeting.


More political support is also needed for nascent technology that
can save huge amounts of money if deployed in developing nations
in the next decade, they added.


Swiss researchers unveiled the X-Station at the Fund's board
meeting, a solar- powered, pilotless airship stationed at an
altitude of 21 kilometres that can bring high speed telecoms
services to an area 1,000 kilometres in diameter.


The project developed by a joint venture of universities and
companies is due to be tested later this year.


"It will be cheap, affordable and fast. You don't have to spend
millions of dollars to launch communications satellites," said
founder Kamel Alavi.


US technology giant Sun Microsystems also presented a centralised
Internet-based server that can effectively do away with 10,000
personal computers and equips the end users with just a screen
and keyboard.


"It is five percent the size of its father, it consumes a
fraction of the energy, it is deployable in a tenth of the time,
and it is mobile," said Mary Smaragdi, director of Sun's
Foundation.


Members of the Fund -- currently 24 countries, eight local
authorities, and private companies -- make a one-off
contribution.


Another key, though still voluntary, source of funding is a one
percent charge on information technology (IT) purchases made by
members.


However, more public authorities that would like to join face
legal constraints with rules on public tenders, especially in the
European Union. An international convention might be needed to
overcome the problem, officials said.

