

England coach Steve McClaren breathed a huge sigh of relief on
Tuesday as it emerged that he would be able to take a close-to-
full-strength squad to Israel for Saturday's crucial Euro 2008
qualifier in Tel Aviv.


With 11 members of his 23-man squad involved in Monday night's FA
Cup quarter- final replays, McClaren endured an anxious time
waiting for news of any injuries to key players.


But big guns Wayne Rooney, John Terry and Frank Lampard all
emerged unscathed from Manchester United and Chelsea's wins over
Tottenham and Middlesbrough and McClaren was left with only minor
concerns on the injury front.


Defenders Jonathan Woodgate and Micah Richards may struggle to be
fit for the Israel match because of knee and calf injuries
respectively, but McClaren expect both men to get on the plane.


"We are assessing them both and hopefully they will be okay," the
England boss declared. "At this present moment, our intention is
for them to travel. We want them with us for next week."


McClaren could ill afford to have his playing resources further
depleted having already lost his most experienced defender, Gary
Neville, and back-up striker Darren Bent, for a match that could
determine the fate of his squad's bid to reach next year's finals
in Austria and Switzerland.


After losing in Croatia in October and failing to beat Macedonia
at home, England have slipped to third in their qualifying group,
behind the Croatians and Russia.


And despite the good news on the injury front, McClaren has seen
his working time with the players curtailed as a result of
Monday's matches.


A scheduled training session for Tuesday had to be scrapped in
favour of a minimal warm-down, which did at least offer Preston
forward David Nugent an opportunity to get to know his new team-
mates.


The highly-rated Nugent was called up on Monday night as a
replacement for Bent, who was withdrawn by Charlton because of
concerns about a knee injury.


If he plays on Saturday or in next Wednesday's match against
Andorra in Barcelona, Nugent would become the first player from
outside the top flight to win a senior cap since Sunderland's
Michael Gray in 1999.


The 21-year-old, who has found the net 16 times for Preston this
season, would also be the first Preston player to represent
England since club legend Sir Tom Finney made the last of his 79
appearances in 1959.


The upcoming matches may also offer Aston Villa's left-sided
defender/midfielder Gareth Barry a chance to impress McClaren
following his call-up as cover for Neville.


First-choice left-back Ashley Cole is suspended for the Israel
match and his usual deputy, Wayne Bridge, is out injured.


McClaren had initially indicated that he would opt for either
Jamie Carragher or Phil Neville as cover on the left of the back
four, but one of those two could now be required to fill
Neville's boots at right back given the doubts about Richards.


Watford goalkeeper Ben Foster impressed on his international
debut in a friendly against Spain last month but is expected to
start on the bench as McClaren keeps faith with Tottenham's Paul
Robinson, whose status as England's number one had been seen as
being under threat.


Foster, who has spent two seasons at Watford on loan from
Manchester United, insists he is happy with his current position
in the international pecking order.


"I am happy to bide my time," he said. "It's only my second full
season as a professional, and only my first in the Premiership.


"A lot of people say a lot has come to me very soon, but I'm not
the sort of person to think about wanting to be number one or
wanting this and that.


"I just go in, train each day, work as hard as I can and try to
do as well as I can."

