

Thousands of Iraqi Shiite militants are passing through terrorist
training camps in Iran, a high-profile Iranian exile alleged
Tuesday, accusing Tehran of seeking to destabilize its neighbor.


Alireza Jafarzadeh, a former spokesman for the opposition
National Council of Resistance of Iran, said Tehran was training
fighters with light weapons, mortars and the roadside bombs used
to such deadly effect against US troops.


"We're not talking about some rag-tag elements and individuals
who go out of their way and happen to provide weapons or
assistance to a number of Shiite militia groups," Jafarzadeh told
reporters in New York.


"We are talking about systematic, well-organised, high-level
training officially provided by the Iranian regime."


He said that militants who joined the camps -- alleged to be near
Tehran and further south near Jalilabad -- were trained either as
special forces, snipers or in the use of anti-aircraft missiles.


Jafarzadeh, who back in 2002 was among the first to claim that
Iran was intent on developing a nuclear weapons program, said his
information came from well- placed sources inside Iran who could
not be identified.


He did not say how many people were believed to have passed
through the alleged camps, but said the numbers were certainly in
the thousands.


"This is the largest operation by any foreign entity in Iraq.
That is not limited to only money, it includes explosives, arms,
intelligence, all of that," he said.


He said his sources believed that the vast majority of the
militants were Iraqis from the Shiite parts of Baghdad and the
southern provinces of Najaf, Karbala and Basra.


He alleged that one of Iraq's most powerful Shiite leaders, Abdel
Aziz Hakim, leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic
Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), whose party sits in the Iraqi
government, was implicated.


"This operation involves a huge amount of coordination, high-
level coordination at the highest level," he insisted.


Some of the militants allegedly entered Iran disguised either as
pilgrims or as people requiring medical attention, while others
either crossed the border illegally or with visas issued by
Iranian officials in Iraq, he said.


Jafarzadeh stepped down as spokesman for the National Council of
Resistance of Iran in 2003. The group is considered a front for
the People's Mujahedeen Organisation of Iran, which the United
States classes as a terrorist group.

