

Australia's Islamic clerics should volunteer as surf lifesavers
and firemen to improve their image in a country which has "had
enough of us," an influential Muslim leader suggested Wednesday.


The president of Australia's largest Islamic organisation, the
Lebanese Muslim Association, made the call in a 16-page report to
be considered by the nation's clerics at a meeting this weekend.


Tom Zreika suggests Muslims have become as unpopular as
communists once were and accuses some clerics of inciting hatred
and violence "on the preposterous justification that they are
simply acting in self-defence in a time of war."


"We are not at war," says Zreika, who confirmed to AFP that
details of his report published in The Australian newspaper
Wednesday were accurate.


"We have become the new communism, particularly in the West, and
some people in our community are so repulsed by our actions it is
making life unbearable for us and our offspring," Zreika says.


Australia's top Muslim cleric, Sheikh Taj Aldin al-Hilali,
created a storm of protest late last year when he described
scantily-dressed women as "uncovered meat" inviting rape.


Faced with calls to get out of the country, the Egyptian-born
cleric mocked the convict ancestry of many white Australians and
said Muslims had more right to the country.


In a nation where beach culture is strong and public service
volunteers are hailed as heroes, Zreika said firefighting and
lifesaving could help Australia's 300,000 Muslims improve their
image.


"It would be great to see a turbaned imam fighting fires
alongside other bushfire service volunteers," Zreika, a lawyer,
says in his submission to the Australian National Imams Council.


"Organisations like the Surf Lifesaving Association should be
joined as a matter of course by the imam and his followers."


Prime Minister John Howard's conservative government last year
passed tough new anti-terror laws and is tightening citizenship
regulations.


The government denies the moves are aimed at Australia's Muslim
community, but Howard has frequently expressed a fear of home-
grown Islamic terrorism similar to that which hit London trains
and buses in July 2005.

