

Fresh water, the stuff of life, is set to become even more
precious as global warming begins to bite, experts warn ahead of
World Water Day on Thursday.


The theme of this year's event is water scarcity, a problem
familiarly driven by population explosion, chronic wastage and
pollution.


The UN estimates that, by 2025, two-thirds of the planet's
population will be living with water stress, with North Africa,
the Middle East and West Asia the worst-afflicted regions.


But global warming is bound to accentuate the scarcity, say
experts.


In many regions, greater aridity, shifting rainfall patterns and
dwindling runoff from snow and ice in mountains may badly deplete
rivers, lakes and aquifers.


In contrast, other regions will get more rainfall -- but this may
take the form of fierce rainstorms that cause flash floods rather
than a useful drizzle that soaks into the ground.


Or the precious stuff may fall in areas that are sparsely
populated or where there is no infrastructure for capturing and
storing it for use during dry spells.


Scientists in the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) are due to highlight the phenomenon in a report, due to be
released in Brussels on April 6. It is the second volume in a
long-awaited assessment on global warming.


In higher latitudes and some wet tropics, including populous
areas of East and Southeast Asia, water availability is "very
likely" to increase over this century, according to the latest
draft of the report, seen by AFP.


But countries in the mid-latitudes and dry tropics, which are
already water- stressed, would have less water.


"Drought-affected areas will likely increase and extreme
precipitation events, which are likely to increase in frequency
and intensity, will augment flood risk," according to the
document, which is still being finalised.


It adds: "Water volumes stored in glaciers and snow cover are
very likely to to decline, reducing summer and autumn flows in
regions where more than one-sixth of the world population
currently live."


In global terms, a temperature rise of 2 C (3.8 F) by 2100
compared with 1990 levels -- towards the lower end of the IPCC's
estimates of the likely warming -- would place up to two billion
in a position of "increased water scarcity."


A rise of 4 C (7.2 F) would bring the tally to as many as 3.2
billion people, the draft calculates. Africa and Asia would be
the two worst-affected continents.


But rich countries, which have more money, technical resources
and expertise, also face the problems of water stress.


From the fast-growing "sun belt" states of the southwestern
United States to southeastern Australia, where water is extracted
from depleted rivers or ancient aquifers are run down for lawns,
golf courses and swimming pools, climate change could also mean a
wrenching change in lifestyle.


In February, the European Environment Agency urged European
governments to start planning now to cope with climate-induced
water stress, and singled out southern Spain, southern Italy,
Greece and Turkey as being badly exposed.


Reservoirs and use of ground water stocks are designed for a
relatively long "recharge" season of rain or runoff from melting
snow.


If the recharge season is short, or it provides so much rain in
one go that the ground surface saturates and the water
infiltrates, the result is flooding and later scarcity.

