

Dueling Democrats Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are veering
onto collision course over Iraq, as the war which ripped schisms
in US politics now tears at the 2008 White House race.


As the two senators join their party's bid to crank up political
heat on President George W. Bush with the conflict grinding into
a fifth year, their campaigns are, in the words of one Obama
aide, "savaging" each other on the war.


The building confrontation, which has already sparked several
rounds of shadow boxing between the rivals, is a sign the war
will have a potent impact on early skirmishes of the 2008
presidential campaign.


Clinton, who heads the Democratic pack in opinion polls, has come
under pressure from fiercely anti-war Democratic base voters to
admit her 2002 Senate vote to authorize war was a mistake.


Obama can press the former first lady on the Iraq vote, as he was
a virtual unknown at the time, an Illinois state senator shielded
from the supercharged national political atmosphere after the
September 11, 2001 attacks.


Early Tuesday, Obama's campaign sent an email to supporters,
previewing a new web page, complete with videos, speeches and
timelines describing the 45-year- old White House hopeful's
opposition to the war.


"Speaking out against this administration's reckless rush to war
in Iraq wasn't easy four years ago. Washington didn't go easy on
those brave enough to voice their opposition," Obama campaign
manager David Plouffe wrote.


"But from the beginning -- before George Bush announced the
invasion of Iraq four years ago today -- Barack Obama
consistently opposed this war."


In one of the videos, a public speech in 2002, Obama is shown
saying he does not oppose all wars, but thinks one in Iraq would
be "dumb."


Plouffe's message did not mention Clinton specifically, but its
tone, and Obama's repeated campaign trail reminders that he
opposed the war from the start, seem explicitly designed to
discomfort her.


The email emerged hours after a reported showdown between top
advisers to the two candidates at a Harvard University forum.


Clinton strategist Mark Penn claimed Obama said in 2004 that he
was not sure whether he would have voted against the war had he
been in the Senate.


He appeared to be referring to a quote in the New York Times on
July 26, 2004, before Obama burst onto the US political stage at
the Democratic National Convention.


Obama was quoted as saying that he was "not privy to Senate
intelligence reports" on Iraq's banned weapons programs that
senators, including Clinton, did see.


"What would I have done? I don't know. What I know is that from
my vantage point the case was not made."


Obama senior strategist David Axelrod hit back at Penn, saying
according to the Washington Post: "Are we going to spend 10
months savaging each other, or are we going to try to lift this
country up?"


Monday's spat was not the first time that the campaigns had
squared off.


In February, Obama questioned how Clinton would make good on her
vow to end the Iraq war if she were the next US president.


On the same day in New Hampshire, Clinton declined to say she had
made a mistake with her vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq.


"I think the mistakes were the president's mistakes and I believe
he should be held accountable for them."


Last year, Clinton told New York constituents in a letter that
she took responsibility for her vote, but blamed the Bush
administration for giving "empty assurances" on seeking a
diplomatic way out of the crisis.


But she added: "Based on the information that we have today,
Congress never would have been asked to give the President
authority to use force against Iraq."


One question which will be tested in the long months of
campaigning before nominating contests begin for the presidential
tickets early next year, is whether that kind of formulation will
assuage fiercely anti-war Democrats.


The two campaigns have also lashed out at one another on other
issues, notably over comments by Hollywood mogul David Geffen,
who said Clinton was overly ambitious and "polarizing" after
hosting an Obama fundraiser.

