

US President George W. Bush stood by his embattled attorney
general Tuesday reluctant to sacrifice a second key
administration figure in fewer than five months to Democrats
baying for blood.


Having been forced to remove defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld
after the Republican routing in the November congressional
elections, Bush Tuesday voiced his support for Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales.


Despite growing calls for Gonzales to resign over a mushrooming
controversy at the Justice Department, Bush personally called his
decade-long aide to offer his support.


Bush's endorsement for the country's top law enforcement officer,
in the eye of a political storm over the firing of eight
prosecutors, came in an early morning telephone call from the
Oval Office, Bush's spokesman Tony Snow said.


"He expressed his support for the attorney general and his strong
backing," Snow told AFP by telephone. It was the second time in
less than a week that Bush voiced his confidence in Gonzales.


But the White House's stand has failed to stop the rumor mill
from springing into action to speculate on a possible successor
for Gonzales, 51, the first Hispanic to hold the country's top
legal post.


The Politico newspaper said Republican officials working on
behalf of the White House were already sizing up possible
replacements after support for the attorney general had collapsed
among Republican lawmakers.


Snow on Tuesday dismissed the report as "completely false."


Bush's intervention came after the Justice Department late Monday
released 3,000 pages of documents related to the prosecutors'
sackings.


Most of the attorneys were fired in December, ostensibly for poor
performance. But critics have charged that the eight were sacked
for political reasons.


Justice Department spokeswoman Tasia Scolinos said the new
documents proved that eight were sacked for valid reasons.


"The department did not remove the US attorneys for improper
reasons, such as to prevent or retaliate for a particular
prosecution in a public corruption matter," she said.


"Because the American public must have confidence that such
considerations did not factor into the decisions here, the
Justice Department is being transparent and forthcoming with the
Congress."


Bush, who has sunk to his lowest level in the opinion polls amid
public fatigue over the war in Iraq, has had a rocky couple of
weeks.


The administration has been fending off scandals over the care of
wounded soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, the
conviction of a former White House aide for perjury and the
prosecutors affair.


Bush has also locked horns with Congress, with the House of
Representatives due to debate this week a Democratic attempt to
set a timetable for withdrawing US forces from Iraq.


If Gonzales steps down, it would be unprecedented for two senior
administration figures to be forced out during Bush's six years
in office.


And it would fuel accusations that in his last two years in
power, Bush is little more than a lame duck president.


Congress has already opened an inquiry into whether the sackings
of the prosecutors were politically motivated.


And it could try to force senior White House figures such as
Bush's deputy chief of staff, Karl Rove, to testify in a bid to
see how far up the administration the scandal reaches.


White House legal advisor Fred Fielding visited Congress on
Tuesday in a bid to appease lawmakers.

