

The administration of US President President George W. Bush
warned Tuesday that a failure to strike a free trade agreement
with South Korea could damage American relations with East Asia.


The warning came as US lawmakers threatened to reject an
agreement that does not include the opening up of South Korea's
sensitive rice market and removal of non-tariff barriers to
America motor vehicles.


The United States and South Korea, a key Asian ally, are racing
ahead of a March 31 deadline to strike what could be the biggest
free trade agreement (FTA) since the 1993 North American Free
Trade Agreement.


"Any let-up in focus that results in our inability to complete
agreements with major emerging-market economies like South Korea
could have unfortunate consequences," Deputy US Trade
Representative Karan Bhatia told a congressional hearing Tuesday
on the free trade talks with South Korea.


"It would likely result in a shift of the region's attention from
strengthening their relationships with the United States to doing
deals with other major trading partners," he said.


To date, the United States has concluded two East Asian free
trade agreements -- with Singapore and Australia, important but
smaller economies -- in the region critically important to the
United States.


Bush's powers to fast-track trade agreements expire in June,
giving US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review that would then only be
subject to an outright yes-or-no vote in Congress without
amendments.


Bhatia said that a successful free trade pact with South Korea
could provide an "important boost to US efforts to remain an
active economic presence in a strategically vital" East Asia
region.


The region, he said, accounted for more than 37 percent of total
world gross domestic product, 26 percent of global trade flows
and 29 percent of US exports.


A South Korea-US FTA would establish a "model" that could be
replicated with other Asian economies and help the United States
expand trade liberalization throughout the region, Bhatia said.


But US lawmakers criticized their negotiators Tuesday for not
doing enough to prise open the South Korean market, warning that
they would not settle for any half-baked agreement.


"We need a shift in negotiating strategy -- to an active,
results-oriented approach that demands and measures commitments
by the Korean government," said Sander Levin, chairman of the
powerful House of Representatives ways and means trade
subcommittee which examines issues of globalization and trade.


"To do less would be to do more of the same and that should not
and cannot result in a FTA acceptable to this Congress and the
American people," he said.


The Democrat was particularly critical of South Korea's current
non-tariff barriers to American industrial products in general
and automotive products in particular.


The United States was saddled with an 11-billion-dollar deficit
in auto trade with South Korea, or 82 percent of the total
deficit, he said, adding that South Korea sold 700,000 vehicles
in America last year while only 4,000 units were sold there by
the United States.


Ranking Republican lawmaker Wally Herger said US rice exports
were subject to a harsh quota system and other restrictions in
South Korea and demanded that the Asian nation "put rice on the
negotiating table so that our farmers can put their rice on
Korean dinner tables.


"This FTA must have comprehensive product coverage, including
meaningful access for rice. Anything less would be a terrible
disappointment," he said.


Herger also urged US negotiators to reject any offer from South
Korea to allow US beef access only in exchange for US abandonment
of its rice demands.


"The exclusion of either rice or beef from this important
agreement will risk congressional passage," he warned.


South Korea insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and
other sensitive items.


It has also rejected US beef shipments after finding tiny bone
fragments in them, saying it violated an agreement last year that
lifted a three-year ban imposed to keep out mad-cow disease.


Washington accused Seoul of using the fragments as a pretext to
exclude its beef and to protect local farmers.

