

Ecuadoran lawmakers Tuesday debated whether they could legally
hold a session without more than half the members of the
Congress, who were recently ousted and were prevented from
entering the building.


"This is of utmost importance," said Congress President Jorge
Cevallos, "so the country knows whether there are constitutional
and legal grounds to open the session."


The unusual debate reflected the deep political crisis that has
rocked the South American country since a court fired 57
opposition members of the 100-seat Congress who sought to block
far-reaching constitutional reforms proposed by leftist President
Rafael Correa.


Cevallos took exception to the presence of substitutes for 30 of
the opposition members, who managed to make their way into the
Congress before dawn despite the presence of 1,200 police
officers ordered to prevent the fired lawmakers from entering the
premises.


"This is not logical, this is not authorized, this is not prudent
for the country," Cevallos said.


On March 13, several of the ousted lawmakers defied police and
made their way into the Congress after engaging in shoving
matches with police and Correa supporters.


One of legislators said he had been beaten up by security forces,
but police claim he hurt himself jumping from the gallery. That
session was called off for want of a quorum.


On Tuesday, about 200 Correa supporters yelled abuse at a smaller
group of demonstrators opposed to next month's referendum over
whether to elect a national assembly that would rewrite the
constitution.


Correa, who was sworn in to a five-year term on January 15, has
said he planned to reverse free-market measures, renegotiate
foreign oil contracts and cease doing business with the
International Monetary Fund.


Opinion polls show 70 percent of Ecuadorans support his proposal
for a Constituent Assembly, but critics claim it is
unconstitutional and inspired by President Hugo Chavez of
Venezuela, where a National Assembly of elected supporters of the
firebrand leftist leader rewrote the constitution in 1999.


Correa has expressed support for the firings of the opposition
lawmakers and insisted the crisis it triggered would not threaten
his job.


Among the most volatile countries in Latin America, impoverished
Ecuador has seen seven presidents come and go since 1996, three
of them leaving amid tumultuous uprisings.

