

Latvia will usher in spring on Wednesday with the opening of a
season-long festival celebrating the rich culture of France.


The three-month-long event will kick off with an exhibition at
Latvia's National Art Museum in Riga of Fauvist paintings from
the early 1900s, on loan from the Bordeaux Art Museum.


On Wednesday evening, French conductor Patrick Souillot will lead
the Latvian Symphony Orchestra and State Academic Choir in a
performance of Hector Berlioz's "La Damnation de Faust" at the
National Theatre.


"The festival will give a special stimulus to our relations. It
will allow a wide public of both countries -- professionals,
artists and media specialists -- to get to know each other, our
creativity and our cultural heritage," French ambassador to
Latvia Andre-Jean Libourel told AFP.


The opening events will be attended by a number of dignitaries
from France, including National Assembly President Patrick Ollier
and former prime minister Alan Juppe, who is mayor of Bordeaux,
which is a twin city with Riga.


Riga Mayor Janis Birks will be inducted into the Bordeaux Wine
Council, which promotes and educates people around the world
about wines from Bordeaux.


"French Spring", which will last until June 21, is France's way
of repaying Latvia for the "Astonishing Latvia" festival that
last year travelled the length and breadth of France and featured
an exhibition of 'speaking stones' -- interactive presentations
of various aspects of Latvian culture.


More than 200 events featuring French artists specialising in
everything from gastronomy to art history and even circus arts,
will perform in Riga and other larger towns and cities.


The festival is the largest French cultural festival ever
organised in northern Europe, according to the website of the
French Foreign Ministry, which is one of the main organisers of
the event.


In addition to cultural events, "French Spring" will feature a
programme of business seminars, aimed at bringing more French
investors into Latvia, and will seek to promote scientific ties
between the two countries.

