

World number one South Africa and New Zealand both booked their
places in the World Cup Super Eights with facile wins over
Scotland and Kenya respectively on Tuesday.


South Africa, powered by an opening stand of 134 in 15 overs by
Graeme Smith (91) and AB de Villiers (62), raced past the
Scottish total of 186-8 with seven wickets and more than 26 of
their allotted 50 overs remaining.


Ross Taylor's 85 was the centrepiece of New Zealand's imposing
331 for seven against Kenya in their World Cup Group C match at
Beausejour Cricket Ground, St Lucia.


Kenya strung out their innings to the last over, thanks largely
to a smart 71 from Ravi Shah and a dogged 42 by Thomas Odoyo, but
finally crashed to a crushing 148-run defeat.


The Proteas, who recorded a 221-run victory over the Netherlands
in their first game, now face reigning World Cup champions
Australia in the final Group A match on Saturday.


With both heavyweights having qualified for the Super Eights with
two wins from two, there remains an extra two points on offer for
a win which could be crucial in the second phase of the
tournament.


De Villiers, whose sharp direct-hit run-out of Scotland captain
Ryan Watson was the highlight of an impressive fielding display
by his side, said the Proteas were happy to have notched up a
"clinical" win over the Scots.


"That was a clinical win and that's exactly what the coach asked
for," said the 23-year-old who struck two sixes and nine fours in
his knock.


"We've had a couple of dodgy warm-up games, it was better against
the Netherlands (a 221-run win) and it was clinical today."


He was also brimming with confidence ahead of the game against
Australia.


The South African team, de Villiers said, "were all playing
well".


"The bowlers are coming through nicely and we're putting runs on
the board. So we're just enjoying ourselves and looking forward
to the big game against Oz."


In St Lucia, Taylor helped New Zealand recover from nought for
one to post the highest one-day international total in 12 matches
on the Beausejour ground, surpassing Pakistan's 303 for six
against the West Indies in 2005.


Craig McMillan (71 off 48 balls), Scott Styris (63 off 62) and
captain Stephen Fleming (60 off 61) all weighed in to the limited
Kenyan attack.


Shah and Odoyo offered some quality resistance when it came to
Kenya's turn to bat but the east African nation was never likely
to threaten the Kiwis' massive total, and will now play England
on Saturday for the second spot in the Group and a place in the
Super Eights.


New Zealand spinner Daniel Vettori, who took 2-45 from his 10
overs, including a great diving return catch off Shah, said the
team was happy with the two wins over England and Kenya which
have guaranteed the Black Caps a place in the Super Eights.


"I'm struggling to buy a decision at the moment but the team are
coming along quite nicely and it's two out of two," said Vettori.


Off the pitch, police officials in Jamaica ruled the autopsy into
the death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer inconclusive, saying
further tests would be carried out.


Woolmer died on Sunday at the age of 58 after his side crashed to
Ireland, and Pakistan team media manager PJ Mir said the
pathologist was "awaiting the results of toxicology and histology
tests from the national laboratory and the government forensic
laboratory".


"The body of Bob Woolmer has been taken to a local funeral
parlour and arrangements are being made for the shipment of the
body to Cape Town via London," Mir said.

