

The US ambassador to Harare defied expulsion threats by launching
a fresh attack Tuesday on Robert Mugabe, deriding the veteran
Zimbabwean president as a despotic dictator.


Christopher Dell denied Washington was actively seeking regime
change or financing the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) but warned Mugabe had boxed himself into a corner and was
running out of options.


"The fact is that the man is in a corner and he knows it," Dell
told AFP in an interview in Johannesburg.


"He has governed Zimbabwe for 26 years with a combination of
repression and patronage. As the economy crumbles the ability to
use these things disappear. He has nothing to steal and give
away.


"What we are really looking at is a failing regime that is
increasingly wobbly. Every time he is in a corner he tries to
radicalise the situation further to regain a tactical advantage."


Dell's comments came after he walked out of a meeting in Harare
on Monday night when Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister Simbarashe
Mumbengegwi said Zimbabwe would "not tolerate interference in our
affairs".


Mugabe himself warned last week that diplomats "must behave
properly or else we kick them out of our country" in response to
a firestorm of criticism over the arrest and subsequent assault
of MDC leaders.


The Zimbabwean president has consistently accused Washington of
funding the MDC and of trying to topple his regime, which has
been described by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as an
"outpost of tyranny."


"This is a typical reaction of a despot dictator," said Dell, who
was en route to a long-standing appointment in London, insisting
that "The US does not provide direct support to political parties
in Zimbabwe or elsewhere."


The charge that the United States is seeking to topple Mugabe was
repeated on Tuesday by Zimbabwe's ambassador to the United
Nations, Machivenyika Mapuranga, as he explained that the CNN and
BBC television networks had been barred from the southern African
country.


The ban against "clearly hostile" networks would stay in place
"until the opposition in (Zimbabwe) has renounced violence and
until the British and Americans abandon their policy of regime
change," he told CNN.


"They espouse the regime change agenda of the United States
government ... We know your agenda is not a noble one," he added.


During his stopover in Johannesburg, Dell also criticised the
South African government's policy of "quiet diplomacy" towards
its northern neighbour where inflation now stands at 1,730
percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


"I think the moment has come to realise the policy of quiet
diplomacy has not produced results," said the envoy.


"It has not changed Robert Mugabe's behaviour in any way. The
time is right to intensify engagement and to get more directly
involved with the Zimbabwean government."

