

A woman whose vision became severely impaired after she was
denied an abortion in staunchly Catholic Poland hailed a ruling
in her favour by the European Court of Human Rights on Tuesday.


"I am happy with this decision. It's a shame that I was unable to
obtain justice in Poland. I am pleased it's all over," Alicja
Tysiac, 36, told reporters.


"Every woman has the right to decide whether or not she wants a
child, and the government should stay out of it," she added.


The European court condemned Poland on Tuesday for breaching
Tysiac's human rights, in a case which put the country's anti-
abortion stance in the spotlight.


The Strasbourg-based tribunal ordered Polish authorities to pay
Tysiac 25,000 euros (33,000 dollars) in compensation and 14,000
euros (19,000 dollars) in legal costs.


Tysiac turned to the European court in February 2006.


In her lawsuit, she argued that doctors' refusal to allow her to
have an abortion amounted to infringement on her private life,
inhuman and degrading treatment, and discrimination on the basis
of her sex and disability.


When Tysiac discovered she was pregnant for the third time in
February 2000, three specialists said the pregnancy threatened
her eyesight but refused to grant a certificate for a termination
on medical grounds.


She finally gained approval from a general practitioner who
stated the pregnancy posed a risk.


But when Tysiac went to a Warsaw public hospital for the abortion
the head of obstetrics ruled there were no grounds for a
therapeutic termination.


After the birth in November 2000, Tysiac's eyesight deteriorated
due to a retinal haemorrhage. She can no longer see objects more
than 1.5 metres (five feet) away and fears becoming completely
blind.


She is registered as disabled, and lives on a monthly pension of
560 zlotys (145 euros, 193 dollars).


Tysiac lodged a criminal complaint against the Warsaw hospital's
obstetrics head, but the district prosecutor decided there was no
link between the doctor's decision and her worsening vision --
sparking a lengthy legal battle through to the European court.


After being widely available under communism, abortion was made
illegal in 1993 in Poland, where more than 90 percent of the 38.2
-million-strong population are professed Roman Catholics.


Terminations are currently only allowed in cases of rape, incest,
danger to the mother's life or irreversible malformation of the
foetus.


Doctors who break the law can face a two-year jail term, although
there are no sanctions for pregnant women who abort.


In a move backed by Poland's Church hierarchy, the ultra-
Catholic, nationalist League of Polish Families (LPR) is seeking
to anchor the current rules in the constitution, which would
effectively prevent any liberalisation in the future.

