

Roy Bennett is grateful to South Africa for supplying him with a
safe haven but his heart still remains firmly entrenched across
the northern border in his native Zimbabwe.


"People are here because of the situation in Zimbabwe and as soon
as they'll get an opportunity to go home, they will go home,"
says the former Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) lawmaker
from his temporary home in Johannesburg.


Bennett, the main Zimbabwean opposition party's treasurer, is one
of up to three million people who have crossed south across the
Limpopo river amid the economic and political meltdown in the
one-time breadbasket of southern Africa.


With inflation now standing at 1,730 percent, around 80 percent
unemployed and MDC activists now being assaulted with apparent
impunity by the Mugabe security forces, there is little reason
for a rapid return.


Pretoria may still remain reluctant to criticise veteran
President Robert Mugabe, leader of Zimbabwe since independence in
1980, but South Africa is paying a heavy price for the crisis in
Harare.


While thousands are caught by border guards and deported each
month, many more do make it across and try and make ends meet as
best they can.


Forty-three-year-old Absolom Nhoro, who used to be a teacher in
Zimbabwe, is now reduced to running adult education lessons in
return for food and shelter at a church in Johannesburg after
falling foul of the government.


He says he was forced to flee after being badly beaten up in 2005
by followers of Mugabe's ZANU-PF party who believed that he was
turning his charges against the government.


"They bashed me against a wall and then against the ground. I
think they left me for dead," he said.


"ZANU-PF people think that teachers are educating people against
Mugabe and his regime."


Nhoro has since been staying at the headquarters of the Central
Methodist Church in downtown Johannesburg along with around 700
refugees, among them more and more Zimbabweans.


That was two years ago. When these men returned, he fled leaving
behind his wife and two children who was expecting a third.


"I am frightened for them. If only at least I could have a proper
place here for them to come. Sometimes they came to visit me
(next to the border, about 600 kilometers, 370 miles from
Johannesburg), but the last time was in December," says Nhoro.


"Now it is more and more difficult for my wife to get the money
to come. She was pregnant when I left so I don't see my only
little girl growing up."


Paul Veryn, the local Methodist bishop, says the Zimbabweans
seeking refuge in his church have more than doubled in the last
year with up to 15 new arrivals each day.


"At night here, it is crowded with about 700 people sleeping
around in the lobby and on the stairs. It is full," he says.


"We don't give them fantastic help, but it is a safe place to
sleep and we give them a little food. A lot of people who come
here are sick, a lot with HIV.


"In the last two years, there has been an escalation in the pain
of the Zimbabweans ... Some of them don't even wait for the
Mugabe militia or the military to come, they just leave because
they think that if they are caught, they'll die."


The sense of bitterness among the refugees is profound. Despite
being grateful towards South Africa for providing them some
respite, they are also angry that the government of Thabo Mbeki
has limited its reaction to less than searing calls for Mugabe to
respect the rights of all Zimbabweans.


At a rally outside the Zimbabwe consulate in Johannesburg last
week, exiles carried banners reading: "We want to go back. Africa
help us remove Mugabe."


South Africa-based Mugabe opponents have even produced a pack of
cards of the Zimbabwean in an echo of the famous "most wanted"
stunt dreamt up by the US forces in 2003 while hunting Saddam
Hussein in Iraq.


Mugabe, who is both the ace of spades and ace of hearts, is
depicted on a throne surrounded by bags of booty while his young
wife Grace, the queen of hearts, is weighed down with shopping
from the boutiques of New York and Paris.


Bennett, one of those who took part in the rally outside the
consulate, was jailed in 2004 for flooring a government minister
during a heated parliamentary debate and then fled the country in
2006 over safety fears.


The former farmer, whose land was seized by the Mugabe regime, is
currently seeking asylum status in South Africa but he does not
want to make the move from his roots permanent even if much of
what he had in Zimbabwe has now gone.


"Everything I had was taken, not just my land, but also my home,
my cattle, my tractors, my coffee, they left me with nothing. We
literally arrived in SA only with what we had in our suitcases,"
he said.


"Home is home and as soon as things are sorted out, I am going
home."

