

A new airline called Virgin America won tentative approval from
US authorities Wednesday to get off the ground, as a government
agency said the carrier appeared to meet the test for US
ownership.


The announcement by the Department of Transportation marked a
reversal from a decision in December, when the agency said the
airline was not under the control of US citizens and too closely
linked to British billionaire Richard Branson's Virgin Group.


In a statement, the DOT said Virgin America's plan to reconfigure
its ownership and management structure "puts it back on track to
meet strict US citizenship tests under federal law."


The upstart low-cost airline, which has licensed the "Virgin"
brand from Britain's Virgin Group, has said that it is
independent from the companies headed by Branson, who founded
Virgin Atlantic airlines and a host of other Virgin-branded
firms.


The department gave tentative approval to Virgin America's plans
to begin US operations but said the carrier would have to
complete its organizational changes, amend various agreements,
and notify the agency if it gets additional loans from non-US
investors.


DOT said it would solicit public comments for 21 days before
making a final decision.


The agency said Virgin America had offered to replace its current
chief executive officer, "whose longstanding association with
foreign investors had raised concerns about who would control the
new carrier."


The CEO named by the group last year was former airline executive
Fred Reid, a US citizen who had been president and chief
operating officer of Lufthansa and worked at other carriers
including US-based Delta.


Other proposed reforms called for removing the Virgin Group's
veto power over certain contracts and expenditures, amending loan
agreements with the Virgin Group, and restructuring its board of
directors.


US officials had rejected the first application claiming Virgin
America failed to meet the test of showing it was controlled by
US citizens, with at least 75 percent of the voting interest in
American hands.


"Today's order puts us one giant step closer to flying," said
Virgin America spokesman Gareth Edmondson-Jones. "We look forward
to finally get our wings -- it will be a huge win for our
employees, investors, supporters, and the traveling public."


Virgin America said is also in the final stages of receiving
approval from the Federal Aviation Administration. The airline
finished its formal FAA safety evaluation in December 2006.


Virgin America, which is based at San Francisco International
Airport, said it plans a "mid-summer launch" from its base at San
Francisco International Airport to New York's John F. Kennedy
Airport.


It plans flights to Los Angeles, San Diego, Las Vegas and
Washington within nine months of the company's first flight.


It has placed orders for 34 Airbus A319 and A320 passenger jets.

