

Prosthetic limb-fitting centres in southern Lebanon are
struggling to cope with the rising toll from the one million
unexploded munitions left over from last year's war with Israel.


To cope with the demand, the Canadian-financed Lebanese Welfare
Association for the Handicapped has opened a new centre in the
southern city of Nabatiyeh, in an area that bore the brunt of
Israel's July-August offensive.


"Since our centre opened in Nabatiyeh (two days ago) we have
already had 35 requests for prosthetic arms and legs," said the
centre's director Bassam Singer.


A first such centre, opened in the coastal town of Sarafand after
Israel's 1996 Grapes of Wrath blitz of southern Lebanon, saw a
huge increase in demand for prosthetics after last summer's
34-day war with Hezbollah.


"The Sarafand prosthetic centre is overwhelmed with people
seeking limbs," said director Talal Berri.


Cluster munitions spread bomblets over a wide area from a single
container. The bomblets often do not explode on impact, but can
do so later at the slightest touch, making them similar to anti-
personnel landmines.


It is thought that up to 40 percent of the bombs did not explode
when they hit the ground, becoming deadly traps for the unwary.


The UN has said that clearing them has been made more difficult
by Israel not revealing the precise areas they targeted.


Singer and Berri both say they continue to see a steady stream of
casualties from the unexploded bomblets, mines, shells and
rockets that litter the fields and villages of southern Lebanon,
often concealed under rubble.


Legs are much more in demand than arms, as most of the bomblets
detonate under foot, shattering the lower limbs.


Doctors have carried out more than 170 amputations since the
start of the conflict on July 12, 75 of them since fighting ended
on August 14, Berri said.


Dalya Farran, spokeswoman for the UN Mine Action Coordination
Centre, said around one million unexploded bomblets remain
scattered around southern Lebanon.


That figure comes on top of around half-a-million mainly anti-
personnel mines left by Israeli troops when they withdrew from
southern Lebanon in 2000 after 22 years of occupation.


Farran says 222 people -- including 190 civilians, the rest
soldiers or deminers -- have been killed or wounded by bomblets
and mines over the last six months. Of the wounded civilians, 110
need prosthetic limbs.


According to an AFP tally, 27 people have been killed by
unexploded ordnance since the end of the 2006 war.


The war victims aid group Handicap International says 98 percent
of cluster bomb victims are civilians. Last year it said that of
11,044 cases recorded in 23 countries, just 125 were military and
another 59 were deminers.


"My son stepped on a bomblet when he was going to help people
while working for the civil defence during last summer's war,"
says the mother of Mohammed Nahle, 31, leaning on her for support
as he learns to use his artificial limb.


Hussein Jawad, 42, has come here (to Sarafand) to find a
replacement for his arm that was torn off in an Israeli air
strike as he delivered bread in the southern village of Bayyada.


A new limb costs between 1,000 and 1,800 dollars (750 to 1,300
euros), a fortune for most inhabitants of southern Lebanon where
the economy is still reeling from the Israeli bombardment.


The victims have paid the entire cost of the limbs themselves,
although a few of them have secured funding from relatives,
friends or charities.


In the immediate aftermath of the war, then UN chief Kofi Annan
lambasted Israel for using cluster bombs, saying "those kinds of
weapons should not be used in civilian and populated areas."


Then UN humanitarian chief Jan Egeland criticised Israel for
firing most of its bomblets in the final hours of the war.


"What's shocking, and I would say completely immoral, is that 90
percent of the cluster bomb strikes occurred in the last 72 hours
of the conflict when we knew there would be a resolution,"
Egeland said.


Shitte movement Hezbollah also came under criticism from rights
groups for its firing of cluster munitions into northern Israel,
although no casualties have been reported from unexploded
ordnance on that side of the border.


With the mutilation continuing in Lebanon, some countries are now
trying to get an outright ban on the use of the explosives that
extract such a heavy civilian toll.


Last month at a conference in Norway, 46 countries pledged to
seek a treaty banning cluster bombs by next year. Israel and the
United States were notably absentees.

