

Frank Lampard has insisted there will be no repeat of the
mistakes which condemned England to a Euro 2008 qualifying defeat
in Croatia when they take on Israel this weekend.


The Chelsea midfielder is expecting a tough match in Tel Aviv as
England, who sit third in Group E, attempt to reignite their
qualifying campaign.


And memories of October's 2-0 defeat against group leaders
Croatia are motivating Steve McClaren's side ahead of the match.


Lampard, speaking at an England training session at Arsenal's
London Colney training ground, said: "I hope we have learned the
lessons from Croatia. We lost that game and it was a big minus
for us.


"We are experienced players who have played in these big
atmospheres before, in Champions League for instance. So there
are no excuses. The atmosphere will be tough in Israel but it's
part of football and you have to cope with it."


It has been suggested that England must win the game in Tel Aviv
to have any chance of reaching the finals in Austria and
Switzerland, but it's a suggestion that Lampard is quick to play
down.


He added: "Israel are a good footballing team and we have to give
them the utmost respect. So I don't think we should put that
pressure on ourselves to say it's a must-win game. But we will go
into the match wanting to win it.


"That's how we approach any game.


"Of course I understand we have dropped points in this campaign
but there are plenty of games to go. This is where we want to
start picking up points and we have to be positive."


England go into the match without the suspended Ashley Cole and
injured strikers Michael Owen and Darren Bent, which could
provide Everton's Andy Johnson a chance to line up alongside
Wayne Rooney.


But Lampard, who has hit 20 goals for his club already this
season, could also prove to be a source of goals.


"I always try to take that on my shoulders and try and get goals
for the team from midfield," he said. "I haven't been able to do
that in the qualifiers lately so it would be a nice time to do
it. But we have other creative players who can do that as well."


He will come up against fellow Chelsea striker Ben Sahar, a youth
team player at Stamford Bridge who has been called into the
Israel squad and is expected to play at least some part in the
tie.


"I have trained with him all season and he's improved this year,"
said Lampard.


"He's a good goalscorer who doesn't look out of place when he
trains with us at Chelsea. He has all the attributes to be a very
top player and if he plays he will be a danger."


Like Lampard, England head coach Steve McClaren says his team
have moved on from their defeat in Croatia and believes that,
despite injuries, he has picked a squad that can get his team's
qualifying campaign back on track.


He said: "Ultimately, there is a hell of a lot of experience in
this squad up front, defensively and in midfield for us to take
into this game. We have moved on from Croatia. Now we know that
we have eight qualifying games to qualify.


"We have looked at things. Now there is a real determination
amongst everybody, the players and the staff, to get the job
done. Qualification is the key. That is the goal. That is what we
are working towards. Yes, the past is a motivation. Yes, we need
to do better and yes, it needs to start on Saturday."

