

Kenya captain Steve Tikolo  believes his side can deny England a
place in the World Cup Super Eights when the sides go head-to-
head for a qualification spot on Saturday despite his side's
148-run defeat by New Zealand.


The Black Caps are assured of a place in the second phase as the
only side currently in Group C with two wins following their six-
wicket success first time out against England.


England and Kenya, who have both beaten Canada, now face a
winner-takes-all clash this weekend.


Tikolo, who four years ago saw his side beat 1996 champions Sri
Lanka on their way to the semi-finals, said Kenya could upset the
odds against an England side that looked far from convincing in a
51-run win against Canada.


"Our chances are good," said Kenya's star batsman.


"All teams in this competition are here to win their matches. Our
chances are good if we do the basic things right."


But he admitted Kenya would have to up their game after what he
said was a "disappointing" performance against New Zealand where
the match was effectively over at the half-way stage after the
Black Caps had piled up 331 for seven - a record for a one-day
international at the Beausejour Cricket Ground.


"We know we are capable of doing better but credit to the New
Zealanders, they played a good game," Tikolo said. "In the field,
we dropped a number of catches and missed run-out chances.


"If we would have taken those, it would have been a different
story. New Zealand wouldn't have got 331. Our running between the
wickets wasn't as good as it should be and obviously batting wise
up front we need to get a start," added Tikolo who only managed
seven as Kenya were bowled out for 183 with four balls to spare.


One bright spot for the Africans was the form of opener Ravindu
Shah, who made 71 off 89 balls with two sixes and eight fours
before he was caught and bowled by left-arm spinner Daniel
Vettori.


Although Tuesday's match was interrupted by a couple of rain
breaks, Tikolo believed his side had been placed at a
disadvantage after losing a couple of early wickets.


Asked whether he'd been happy to see Kenya batting at that stage,
he replied: "Obviously no, because it (the rain) affects the
pitch. The ball starts to skid on."

