

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice returns to the Middle East
this weekend hoping a long-dormant Arab peace plan might breathe
some life into her own endangered efforts to rekindle Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations.


The trip, beginning Friday, calls for a rare bout of shuttling
between Arab leaders and Israelis, a type of diplomacy once
common in US peace efforts but which Rice has derided during her
two years as Washington's top diplomat.


Rice will begin by meeting in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan
with leaders from Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates -- the so-called Arab Quartet of moderate US allies in
the region, officials said.


She will then hold separate talks with Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas in the West Bank town of Ramallah and Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert in Jerusalem before flying to Amman for a
meeting with King Abdullah II.


Rice then returns to Ramallah and Jerusalem for another round of
discussions early next week -- her first such back-and-forth
diplomacy between Arabs and Israelis.


The shift in tactics reflects the difficulties facing US
peacemaking efforts since the Western-backed Palestinian
president, Mahmud Abbas, joined a power- sharing government led
by the radical Islamic movement Hamas.


In an initiative launched late last year, Rice hoped to
strengthen the position of Abbas, then embroiled in a power
struggle with Hamas, in part by brokering direct negotiations
between him and Israel on the contours of a future Palestinian
state.


But the process collapsed last month when Abbas agreed to cohabit
in a unity government with Hamas in a bid to stanch deadly
factional violence between his Fatah party and the Islamists.


The power-sharing cabinet was sworn in on Saturday without Hamas
agreeing to formally recognize Israel or renounce violence -- key
conditions set by Israel, the US and other major powers.


Israel responded by refusing to meet with any member of the new
government and limiting future dealings with Abbas to a narrow
range of security and humanitarian issues.


While Washington and its European allies took a softer line,
agreeing to deal individually with Fatah members and independents
in the new Palestinian cabinet, they maintained a year-long
boycott of the overall government, effectively smothering Rice's
plan.


"This is just a very awkward and very difficult situation," said
Aaron Miller, an adviser on Israeli-Palestinian issues to six
previous secretaries of state.


Miller, now an analyst at the Woodrow Wilson center in
Washington, said the unity coalition was possibly the
Palestinians' first "representative and legitimate government"
ever, since it includes both the secular and religious branches
of Palestinian politics.


"But it's really going to muddy and make a mess of the short-term
diplomacy" waged by Rice, he said.


As a result, Rice's trip will focus in large part on reviving a
peace plan first unveiled by Saudi Arabia in 2002 but rejected by
Israel and ignored by the US, a senior US official said.


The plan would offer Israel full recognition and peace with Arab
states in exchange for a return to Israel's 1967 borders, the
creation of a Palestinian state and resolution of the Palestinian
refugee issue.


Israeli officials have in recent weeks spoken of "positive"
elements in the proposal, while Rice said she viewed the
initiative "favorably" as a set of principles.


To be acceptable for Israel even as a starting point for
negotiations, though, Rice will have to convince Arab allies to
amend the plan, particularly as it concerns the "right of return"
for Palestinians who fled or were forced from their homes when
Israel was created in 1948 -- a right Israel rejects.


Rice will discuss ways to move the plan forward with the Arab
leaders in Aswan in hopes that an Arab League summit meeting next
week in Saudi Arabia will endorse the outline as a basis for
negotiations with Israel, the senior official said.


The plan could then be used to drive a wedge between Abbas, whose
own position on relations with Israel mirrors the initiative, and
Hamas, which is likely to reject any proposal that requires
explicit recognition of the Jewish state.


US officials and experts caution that the Arab plan, even if
renewed and revised to meet Israeli concerns, would only be a
start.


"The Saudi initiative is a set of principles, and all those
principles represent a universe of details that still need to be
negotiated directly between Israelis and Palestinians," said
Miller.

