

World oil prices dipped on profit-taking Tuesday, reversing gains
won earlier in the day ahead of the publication of data on US
gasoline stocks, traders said.


The US Department of Energy publishes its keenly-awaited weekly
energy report on Wednesday, which is expected to show a fall in
US gasoline stocks because of strong demand.


Gasoline (petrol) stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-
demand season, beginning May 31, when US drivers throng roads
during their summer vacations.


In London on Tuesday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery fell 18 cents to 60.34 dollars per barrel during
electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, slipped 15 cents to 56.44 dollars per barrel
in pit trading.


The New York contract expires at the close.


"The strength in US gasoline (demand) has helped to counter
recent weakness (in crude oil prices) driven by concerns about
slower growth in the US and China, combined with OPEC's decision
to leave oil output unchanged," Sucden analyst Michael Davies
said in London.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish added: "Wider concerns
over supply availability ahead of the summer driving season are
maintaining upwards pressure on prices.


"Fast-falling US gasoline inventories, lower imports availability
and very strong US gasoline demand levels are all lending
support."


Dealers added that recovering world stock markets, following a
rout last week, have also lifted investor sentiment.


Prices had closed mixed on Monday, falling in New York but
advancing in London, amid a closely-watched report that forecast
a jump in oil prices in the coming months.


The Centre for Global Energy Studies had said in its monthly
report that prices were set to jump over the coming months after
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided
against an increase to its crude output last week.


The OPEC crude cartel decided last Thursday to keep its daily
output target at 25.8 million barrels, arguing that global supply
levels were healthy.


OPEC, which supplies more than one-third of the world's oil, cut
production in November and February.

