

For the US infantrymen deployed to a combat outpost protecting
the market in south Baghdad's most notorious neighbourhood,
Tuesday was a day of small but important victories.


First, one of their gunners shot dead one of the insurgent
fighters that haunt the Dura district. Then, they finally got hot
showers working in the row of empty stores they have converted
into a makeshift base.


It was a day of smiles and backslapping that ended with guitars
and singing, and the only reminder of the often grim reality on
the Iraqi streets outside was the title of the first number --
"Dead bodies in the trash."


As Gator Company's soldier-songwriters found their voice, a
column of Humvee jeeps rolled in out of the darkness, their
headlights picking up concrete dust and freshly laid cables in
the market street turned armed camp.


Since September, the young men of 2-12 Battalion's Gator Company
have kept constant armed patrols in Dura's market, which was then
a notorious hunting ground for Baghdad's Sunni insurgent gangs.


Last week, they stepped up their commitment, moving a force of
soldiers into the area permanently, setting up shop in a
ramshackle shopping arcade and a couple of neighbouring stores.


Concrete blast walls have gone up at the ends of the street, but
otherwise the soldiers have placed themselves as close to the
war-weary civilian traders and shoppers as they safely can.


"Every day we'd come in here and we'd find between one and four
dead bodies. We'd spend most of our time picking up bodies,"
remembered Company Sergeant Major Doug Maddi, sitting in a white-
tiled former kebab joint.


After four hard years of fighting in Iraq, the US army has thrown
its all into an ambitious new plan to nip Baghdad's sectarian
civil war in the bud, pouring reinforcements into the war-torn
capital.


The new US military commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus,
wants to see more units following Gator Company's example and
moving into flashpoint city districts to provide 24 hour
security.


For Maddi and company commander Captain Ben Jones, the turn
around in Dura market is an example of what can be achieved by
keeping a constant presence, and the unit is proud that business
life is slowly returning.


Not that the war here is over. Dura, a once wealthy area owned by
supporters of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein, still seethes with
resentment over its rapid descent into poverty, unemployment and
political exclusion.


Two of the "mahalas" or neighbourhoods that the company patrols,
just a few streets back from the market, are still among the most
dangerous in the city for US patrols, and roadside bombs explode
daily.


For the most part, since US troops stepped up patrols, the
insurgents keep to the shadows. On Tuesday, however, Private
First Class Jerimiah Veitch's (EDS: corr) Humvee rounded a corner
and ran into six armed men.


"I engaged them with my 240," the 21-year-old Oklahoman said as a
comrade patted his back. "It's 7.62mm machinegun. I'm the gunner
mounted on the top.


"They took off running. I had a malfunction on my weapon. Once I
corrected my malfunction I started engaging them as the
opportunity arose.


"Three of them fell, but they got up again, they were just
wounded. The one I killed, I saw him get up, and I re-engaged
him. He didn't get up again."


One of the injured was captured later, and the patrol seized
three AK-47 assault rifles and a Dragunov sniper rifle, a
particular prize as its armour-piercing rounds pose a deadly
threat to US troops on patrol.


Once a gunfight involving US soldiers might have stirred anger in
Dura, but Veitch's proud platoon leader Lieutenant Jeremy Currin
believes local people are beginning to appreciate the protection
Gator Company provides.


"The more we're in the neighbourhood, the better relations we
have."


Sergeant Maddi puts this trust to the test on daily visits to the
market itself, once home to 600 thriving businesses, the
abandoned in the chaos following the US invasion, and now once
more housing 100 stores.


"Tomorrow, I'll buy some shower curtains," he said. "Pretty much
anything I need I can get in this market."


The curtains became necessary because of the second success of
the day; Sergeant Kenneth Boyd's victory in his battle with three
water tanks, four shower heads and several dozen metres of
plastic piping.


"There we go, there we go. Woohoo! We've got hot, we've got hot."

