

South African captain Graeme Smith said his team were well tuned-
up for the real World Cup business after cruising to the Super
Eight stages with two victories from two games.


"I think from the point of view of going through to the next
round, the first two games are out of the way, and that's a good
thing," Smith said after his team's seven-wicket win against
Scotland at Warner Park on Tuesday.


South Africa, ranked world number one, now meet bitter rivals
Australia in a high-profile Group A clash on Saturday, a match
Smith termed as real challenge.


"The World Cup is really starting for us now, and the first part
of that is Saturday because Australia is the game that everyone's
been looking forward to," said Smith, who hit an attractive 91 to
help his team chase 189.


For their part Scotland deserved credit for playing out all their
50 overs to score their highest World Cup score of 186-8, former
England Test player Dougie Brown top-scoring with 45.


Andrew Hall took 3-48 and fellow paceman Charl Langeveldt (2-48)
enjoyed a good work-out after Smith won the toss and fielded.


Smith said his team was ready for any opposition in the round of
eight teams.


"I think every team has match winners, so I don't want to delve
into who'll beat us and who won't beat us. I think that as a team
you cannot afford to take teams for granted, have to be ready for
each day.


"If you're slightly off the mark, teams can beat you. Australia
is a big challenge in itself," said Smith.


"I'm very relaxed at the moment. I think I'm going to get a
lesson on how to fish, a couple of our farm boys are taking me
fishing. Hopefully I don't get too seasick."


Analysing his team's performance against Scotland, Smith said his
bowlers offered more loose deliveries.


"We weren't any less aggressive against Scotland. There were just
a lot of four- balls on offer. The track played well today, it
was a really good wicket. It was a lot slower against Holland,"
said Smith of team's first match which they won by 221 runs.


"I think Scotland are the better unit, a few better bowling
options and a few decent batters in the top six."


Smith said some of his players were emotional leading up to the
Scotland match due to former coach Bob Woolmer who died in
Jamaica on Sunday.


"The Scotland game took on extra meaning after Bob passed away.
There were a couple of emotional guys, and to their credit they
were guys who were very professional. We discussed that aspect
and I am happy everyone did well."


Smith said the Proteas will prepare extensively for the Australia
match.


"Our couple of days of preparation is going to be important. Our
planning is going to be important. I know we're a very confident
bunch of guys, each guy got a good workout coming out of these
two games.


"I think we are running pretty solidly and it's just about
getting it right and hopefully executing on the day. I think both
teams are very close, and it's about who's better on the day and
who takes their chances."


Smith, whose team dethroned Australia as world number one last
month, said it would not matter who is top in the rankings.


"I don't think it changes it in any way. We've come a long way
against Australia and I don't think there is that fear factor
anymore. It's going to be a cracking game and hopefully it lives
up to what everybody wants to see."

