

These are the people that the new Russia forgot. Far from the
glitz of oil-rich Moscow, tens of thousands of men live a meagre
existence in the thankless coal mines of Siberia.


"It's like slavery, except it's legal," said Pavel, 52, a former
miner from Novokuznetsk, a coal industry hub near the site of a
gas explosion in a mine on Monday that killed 107 people.


In and around Novokuznetsk, views like Pavel's are easy to come
by.


This sprawling city of 600,000 has badly potholed roads, a
downtown made up of drab apartment blocks and a layer of coal
dust that turns the snow at this  time of year into grey sludge.


"Why is it that none of the bosses lose their jobs when there are
accidents? We're earning kopecks to do this shit," said one 42
-year-old coal miner who just finished his shift at the
Yubileinaya mine outside Novokuznetsk.


The ginger-haired man stood by a bus shelter with three fellow
miners, drinking vodka out of a large plastic bottle in memory of
their friends killed in the blast at the Ulyanovskaya mine
nearby.


The explosion was Russia's deadliest mining accident since the
end of the Soviet Union. But the incident is only the latest in a
series of smaller blasts and fires that have failed to make the
headlines, miners said.


"I get 192 dollars (144 euros) a month and I could get blown up
tomorrow," the miner said, his mouth pinched in a bitter smile.


His friends urged him to stop talking to a reporter for fear of
losing the jobs, as security guards from the mine stood nearby.


For the miners of Kuzbass, the massive coal basin in this part of
western Siberia, the banner hanging outside the regional airport
of Kemerovo, reading "Kuzbass! The Country Is Proud of You!"
sounds more like a joke.


The highest salary for a qualified miner in this area is up to
1,500 dollars per month.


Under President Vladimir Putin, Russia has re-emerged as an
energy superpower but that counts mainly for oil and gas -- the
coal sector, chronically underfunded and accident-prone, has
become more an embarrassment.


The Kuzbass was first developed on a large scale in the 1930s and
Novokuznetsk was formerly known as Stalinsk, after the Soviet
leader who pushed through brutal industrialisation policies at
the time.


As in other parts of the world, the coal industry suffered a
steep decline here in the 1980s and 1990s and many mines were
forced to close. Coal mining jobs fell from some 900,000 after
the Soviet collapse to around 300,000 now.


In Novokuznetsk, there were few choices for unemployed miners.
Some started driving taxis, others simply began drinking heavily.


Illegal extraction of coal from the mines dotted around the hills
became a lucrative black market business.


China's growing demand for coal has helped revive hopes here,
however. The trouble, miners say, is that mine owners are now too
keen to sacrifice safety for the sake of profits.


"It's just the bosses out to make money. Russia is like that,"
Pavel said in an interview, as he sat in the back of a Volga car
in a black flat cap and leather jacket.


Pavel said he believed the drive for maximum efficiency in coal
production was leading to the construction of fewer outlets for
ventilation in the mine shafts, which in turn was causing more
methane gas explosions.


"The mines they're digging now, they're like bombs," he said.


Speaking to AFP outside the Yubileinaya mine, where a temporary
counselling centre was set up for bereaved friends and relatives,
workers sounded sceptical about the respect for safety
regulations at their mine.


Yubileinaya is operated by the same company, Yuzhkuzbassugol,
that runs Ulyanovskaya, where the accident happened. The company
is the biggest local coal producer and owns some 20 mines in the
area.


"What safety? It's all about money," said one miner.


Asked how accidents like this could continue to happen, Pavel
said criticism could be easily hushed up: "They buy your silence
here. They give you a house, or they give you a car. If you
continue to criticise, you're an outcast."

