

European Union countries prepared to reach out to non-Hamas
members of the new Palestinian unity government on Tuesday but it
will be some time before the EU restores direct aid, officials
said.


In separate statements from their foreign ministries, France and
Austria signalled they would take the first, tentative steps
toward official contact with members of the new government not
from the ranks of the Islamist movement.


France will meet moderate ministers, while Austrian Foreign
Minister Ursula Plassnik invited her Palestinian counterpart Ziad
Abu Amr, an independent, to visit. Belgian Foreign Minister Karel
De Gucht may also hold talks with him.


"There is no EU decisions that would ban such visits, nor any
decision laying out the EU's policy on such contacts," explained
the European Commission's spokeswoman for external affairs, Emma
Udwin.


The United States also made contact with the independent finance
minister, according to Palestinian sources, while non-EU country
Norway has gone further and recognised the government outright.


Hamas swept to power a year ago. The elections that brought it to
office were endorsed but the result was shunned by the EU and the
United States, as the group ranks on their terror blacklists.


It led to the end of direct aid to the Hamas government,
including a crippling Israeli boycott of hundreds of millions of
dollars of tax and customs duties owed to the Palestinian
Authority, and drove it into bankruptcy.


On Monday, the United States and European Union agreed to
withhold recognition of the unity government grouping Western-
backed moderates and Islamic radicals, but they did leave the
door open to future official ties.


The two along with the United Nations and Russia, who all make up
the Middle East diplomatic Quartet, insist that the cabinet's
programme must recognise Israel, renounce violence and respect
past peace agreements.


"I have to say that this government does not comply fully with
the principles," EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said
Monday. "It's much more important what they do than what they say
at this point in time."


Palestinian officials have repeatedly, and increasingly
desperately, called for an end to the international aid boycott,
as the Gaza Strip spiralled into economic chaos and violence.


But officials said on Tuesday that the EU was in no hurry,
without proof that the new government is as good as its word.


"We need to see real action from the government, and that won't
happen from one day to the next," one official in Brussels said,
on condition of anonymity.


The Union is by far the biggest aid provider to the Palestinians.
It donated some 700 million euros (900 million dollars) last
year, without any of the money reaching Hamas.


Even with Hamas being by-passed, the amount was around 200
million euros more than it usually provides annually.


Most of the funds went through a temporary mechanism set up to
provide fuel for hospitals and generators and pay temporary
allowances to those most in need, and officials expect that to
evolve.


"The question of how to normalise financial assistance is
something that will be addressed very gradually," the EU official
said. "The temporary mechanism will evolve."


"We'll keep using the mechanism for a while," said Solana's
spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach. "It allows us to give aid. We're
not going to close the door but we're not going to open it right
up either."


Officials agreed that the EU's position on dealing with the
government -- at least non-Hamas members in it -- is likely be
made more formal at a meeting of the bloc's foreign ministers in
Bremen, northern Germany late next week.

