

A satisfied Scotland stand-in captain Ryan Watson believes his
team are learning with every World Cup experience.


"We have improved a lot score-wise. From 130-140 we have got 186
under our belts, but I am slightly disappointed with the way we
bowled up front," said Watson after his team's seven-wicket
defeat against South Africa on Tuesday.


Scotland face fellow minnows Netherlands here on Thursday in
their final match of Group A from which both Australia and South
Africa have already qualified for the next round.


Whoever loses Thursday will be left with the wooden-spoon.


Scotland, sent in to bat, played with a resolve to register their
highest World Cup score of 186-8 in 50 overs against the Proteas,
beating their previous Cup record of 181 made against Australia
at the 1999 World Cup.


Watson said his team would have fancied their chances against
Pakistan who crashed out of the World Cup after losing to fellow
associate members Ireland on Saturday.


"The problem with South Africa and Australia from our point of
view is that they are not complacent. Someone like Pakistan might
occasionally give you half a chance, but not these guys," said
Watson, who was leading the team in the absence of regular
captain Craig Wright who went back home to attend a family
member's funeral.


"I thought we bowled a lot better against Australia and having
runs on the board, we had an opportunity to put them under a
little bit of pressure but we didn't bowl as well as we could
have."


Smith (91) and AB de Villiers (62) put on 134 in quick time to
quash any hopes Scotland might have garnered of upsetting their
opponents.


"He (Smith) looks to be in good form again. He looks a lot more
mature and comfortable in the role and comes hard at the bowlers
and he is likely to be a crucial factor in World Cup," said
Watson, a former school-mate of the South African captain.


Watson also praised South African attack for whom Andrew Hall
took 3-48 and Charl Langeveldt claimed 2-48.


"They have a world-class opening attack, and for our openers to
come through that stage was a great effort. It shows we are
starting to learn and develop as a cricket side.


"Then the last five overs was really good batting. Dougie (Brown)
hung around, and then when he got his chance at the end he hit it
nicely and got close to our gameplan," said Watson of Brown who
top-scored with 45.


"We lost (Fraser) Watts and Gavin (Hamilton) at bad times just
when we were looking to push on but we're getting there."

