

The US Senate on Tuesday passed legislation meant to ensure the
independence of US attorneys, amid a growing scandal over the
Justice Department's firing of eight federal attorneys.


The "Preserving United States Attorney Independence Act," which
passed by a vote of 94 to two, would ensure that individuals
nominated to the powerful federal prosecutor posts on an interim
basis would serve a maximum 120 days. A permanent replacement for
the post would be subject to Senate confirmation.


"This bill will go a long way toward restoring the independence
of federal prosecutors," said Democratic Senator Ken Salazar, a
key backer of the legislation.


At present, an individual named to fill a federal prosecutor
vacancy can serve indefinitely.


Democrats allege that the eight US attorneys were fired because
they either investigated Republicans or declined to prosecute
Democrats.


The ousted prosecutors were replaced with individuals deemed more
likely to pursue prosecutions to the liking of President George
W. Bush's adminstration, in what has become one of the most
explosive scandals of the Bush presidency.


The controversy has led to calls for the resignation of US
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, the country's top cop.
Democrats allege Gonzales was a major architect of the
controversial policy on US attorney firings.


The legislation approved by the Senate Tuesday would restore the
process in place before 2006, when a clause allowing an interim
US Attorney appointed by the administration to serve indefinitely
was inserted into the anti-terrorism USA Patriot Act legislation,
which was approved in March 2006.


Democratic US Senator Dianne Feinstein said the measure would
prevent the "politicization of United States Attorneys" following
the administration decision to fire seven all on the same day
last December.


"This incident has shined a bright light into the inner workings
of the Bush administration, and what it has revealed is not
pretty," said Feinstein, one of the main authors of the bill.


Her remarks came as congressional Democrats appeared poised to
broaden their probe into whether the firings were politically
motivated.


"Passage of this bill is not the end of our investigation. Major
questions remain," Feinstein said.


"The time for slippery explanations is over," she said. "The
American people deserve the truth.

