

Uzbek Al-Qaeda militants and pro-government tribesmen in
northwest Pakistan fought pitched battles that left at least 51
people dead including four children, officials said on Tuesday.


Heavy exchanges of rocket and mortar fire rang out for a second
day around Kalusha town in the mountainous tribal region of South
Waziristan, which borders Afghanistan, security officials said.


The fighting started after ex-Taliban commander Mullah Nazir, who
backs President Pervez Musharraf's moves to expel foreign
fighters from the troubled area, ordered followers of Uzbek
militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


Yuldashev, the head of a group called the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, was sentenced to death in absentia for bombings in
the Uzbek capital Tashkent. Security officials say he had links
to Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.


A mortar round hit a group of private school students who had
been left outside the town by a bus driver because of the
violence. Four were killed and 27 were wounded, the security
officials said on condition of anonymity.


Thirty-eight of Yuldashev's supporters were killed and 22 were
detained, the officials said, while nine local tribesmen
including some of Nazir's men also died and 64 others were
wounded, the officials said.


Twelve seriously wounded civilians, all women and children, were
evacuated by helicopter to hospital in the northwestern city of
Peshawar, they said.


Military spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad earlier told AFP
that he had reports that "around 30 people have been killed in
clashes between local tribesmen and militants" but that the toll
could rise.


Residents said tribesmen told the foreign insurgents late Tuesday
to lay down their arms by midnight or be killed, while
announcements over mosque loudspeakers urged locals to be ready
for more fighting.


Meanwhile hundreds of Uzbek militants and their supporters
blocked the road from Wana, the main city in South Waziristan, to
the town of Angoor Adda in order to "show their strength against
their rivals," officials said.


The local administration gave them a 48-hour ultimatum to end the
blockade otherwise military action would be started against them,
the officials said.


Arshad said the army did not intend to step in.


The fighting ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after 19 people died in fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's
supporters and tribesmen in the nearby town of Azam Warsak.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.


Officials said Yuldashev was wounded during major battles with
Pakistani forces in the Azam Warsak area in March 2004.


Pakistan has signed controversial peace deals with elders and
militants in the South and North Waziristan regions after
military offensives against Taliban and Al-Qaeda members,
including Uzbeks.

