

Hollywood superstars Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, who last week
boosted the size of their family to four, are set to return to
the big screen with lead roles in separate movies, the Hollywood
entertainment daily Variety said Tuesday.


Jolie, 31, is to play a killer-for-hire in an action flick called
"Wanted" alongside actor Morgan Freeman, who won a best
supporting actor Oscar for his role in the 2005 Clint Eastwood
film "Million Dollar Baby."


She will portray as assassin who teaches a younger man how to
kill in the graphic novel-based thriller, to be distributed by
Universal studios and directed by Russian Timur Bekmambetov whose
credits include "Spiderman 2."


Pitt, 43, will act as an investigative journalist in "State of
Play," a movie based on a British mini-series, with reporters and
police racing to unravel the murder of a politician's mistress.


Director Kevin McDonald said he was "absolutely hooked on" the B
drama, and "wanted to do something that tackles the way we as a
society in America and Europe learn what's going on, and how much
we can trust newspapers and the nightly news."


Pitt, who earns around 20 million dollars per film, is one of the
best paid actors in Hollywood and recently starred in "Babel."


Jolie last week adopted a three-year-old boy Vietnamese boy who
was abandoned at birth.


The boy, who Jolie said she will name Pax Thien, is the fourth
child for Jolie and fellow film star partner Pitt, who lives with
her in New Orleans.


The couple already have five-year-old Maddox, adopted from
Cambodia, a two-year- old daughter, Zahara, who was adopted in
Ethiopia, and a biological daughter, Shiloh, born last May in
Namibia.


The star-studded couple acted together in the 2005 film "Mr. and
Mrs. Smith."


They first met the Vietnamese boy during a Thanksgiving Day trip
last November, while on a break from filming in India of "A
Mighty Heart," a movie about the 2002 abduction and murder of US
journalist Daniel Pearl by Islamic militants in Pakistan.


"A Mighty Heart" is set to be released in June.


Jolie, who won an Oscar in 2000 for best supporting actress for
her role in "Girl, Interrupted," is a goodwill ambassador for the
UN refugee agency and has visited scores of refugee camps in
Africa, Asia and South America.

