

Quebec voters will decide Monday on either a federalist
government or Quebec separatists trying to break up Canada, at
the crest of frenzied election campaign.


Less than a week before the ballot, the French-speaking
province's two main political parties were neck-and-neck, with a
third greenhorn conservative party making unexpected strides to
narrow the gap.


Most analysts at the start believed Liberal Premier Jean Charest
would win a second term and stave off a plebiscite for five
years, an average term.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois jumped slightly ahead in the
final week of the campaign.


And an unexpected surge in support for rightist Action
Democratique du Quebec (ADQ), which favors more autonomy for
Quebec, but not independence, has turned the province's election
into a horse race.


Political analysts now say the contest is too close to call,
forcing observers in Ottawa, Canada's capital, to the edge of
their seats.


Autonomy and independence for Quebec is a recurring issue in
Canadian politics -- the province held and lost two referendums
on breaking away from Canada in 1980 and 1995. Federalists
narrowly won the second ballot.


The leader of the separatist Parti Quebecois, Andre Boisclair,
has vowed to hold a third plebiscite, if they win the Quebec
election. "Our objective is the creation of a country," he said.


"We commit to consult the population as soon as possible during
our first mandate so that at last Quebec could become a country."


The battle is being fought over health care, education and family
values, but the dream of Quebec independence continues to bleed
into most political debates, polarizing the electorate.


"The Parti Quebecois represents going backwards, represents
division, another referendum as soon as possible. The ADQ
represents divisions amongst Quebecers," Charest said at the
launch of his campaign.


"We want Quebec to be master of all its legislation, to collect
all of its taxes and be able to speak with its own voice on the
international scene," countered Boisclair.


Almost half of Quebecers support nationhood, according to the
latest polls. But most are wary of holding another plebiscite
now. "Quebec voters do not like risk," explained pollster
Christian Bourque of Leger Marketing.


"The emotion and the separatist agenda is still alive, but people
do not want a referendum immediately," Antonia Maioni, a
professor at McGill University's Institute for the Study of
Canada, told AFP.


Some are still hurting from past defeats, she explained. Others
are willing to give Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper a
chance to roll out his vision of "decentralized federalism" to
give Quebec more autonomy.


In November, Canada's House of Commons overwhelmingly adopted a
resolution stating that the province of Quebec represents a
"nation within a united Canada" in an unprecedented vote
initiated by Harper.


It was the first time a prime minister and Parliament had
recognized the concept of "nation" for the province, even if only
as a symbolic gesture.


Monday, Harper's Conservative government unveiled an economic
blueprint aimed at foiling Quebec separatists by transferring
billions of dollars from federal coffers to the province.


The spending plan was an attempt to "fix" a longstanding irritant
in federal- provincial relations that has seen Ottawa awash in
cash while its 10 provinces struggled to pay for social services.


Because the discrepancy had in part fueled the Quebec
independence movement, the monies could also breath new life into
Harper's ally Jean Charest's torpid campaign ahead of next
Monday's elections.


However, if the separatists win, Ottawa could find itself handing
billions of dollars over to the separatist Parti Quebecois.


Whichever party ends up on top, pundits are betting that Charest,
Boisclair, or ADQ leader Mario Dumont will be propelled to the
helm of Quebec's first minority government in more than a
century, with ambiguous fallout for Canada.

