

"Dubai is the most Iranian of cities," said Mohammed Reza, an
Iranian expatriate who has lived in the Gulf emirate across the
waters from the Islamic republic since 1998.


Not many could argue with him. It was Friday lunchtime and the 29
-year-old engineer was about to enter the city's impressive
turquoise-domed Imam Hussein mosque. Hundreds of his compatriots
followed as the call to prayer echoed.


In a city known for glass and steel skyscrapers and industrial
free zones, this little enclave in one of Dubai's older districts
could be known as Irantown.


Adjacent to the mosque sits one of Iran's largest consulates.
Opposite, people mill around an Iranian hospital ordained with
intricate Persian scriptures.


"Iranians were among the first to set up business in the United
Arab Emirates," a federation of seven emirates, said Salah
Salmeen at the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI).


"The oil boom and development of shipping facilities to Iran
created further opportunities for maximising trade between the
two countries."


According to the Iranian consulate in Dubai, at least 400,000 of
the UAE's 4.1 million residents are Iranian.


The numbers have almost doubled since 2003. Iran's status as an
international pariah, which has increased since President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's election in 2005, has forced many nationals
overseas.


Heavy taxation and the difficulty of acquiring letters of credit
have given businessmen few options but to seek opportunities
elsewhere.


"If an Iranian company deals with European companies, the
European side is always more comfortable dealing with a Dubai-
based company as the rules and regulations are not volatile like
in Iran," said Mohammed Safavi, general manager at trading firm
The Link.


Located just 170 kilometres (105 miles) across the Strait of
Hormuz, Dubai has become a satellite state for Iranian capital.


The DCCI has 8,050 Iranian companies registered. The Iranian
Business Council's (IBC) numbers are closer to 10,000 businesses,
ranging from banking to real estate and oil.


Iranians are also major investors in property developments.


The DCCI estimates Dubai's non-oil trade with Iran was worth
eight billion dollars last year, a 30-percent rise since 2004.


"We estimate accumulated assets of Iranians in the UAE to be
about 300 billion dollars, while trade between the UAE and Iran
was about 11 billion dollars in 2006," said IBC vice-president
Nasser Hashempour.


Dubai has become so important to Iran that senior Iranian
government officials are rumoured to have set up front companies
in the emirate.


"We've heard a lot about non-private sector companies or people
belonging to the government investing in Dubai," said Hashempour.


The UAE is by far Iran's largest global trade partner, with
exchanges reaching nearly three times those with Germany.


"Dubai is essential to Iran," said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, professor
of political science at UAE University.


"Iran needs Dubai more than the other way round... It can deal
with the outside world from here and it will need it more and
more if there are (trade) sanctions imposed (over Tehran's
nuclear programme)."


The conflict between Washington and arch-foe Tehran has put
Dubai's relationship with its neighbour in the spotlight. At a
recent conference in the emirate, Stuart Levey, US undersecretary
at the Treasury, suggested the UAE would need to think carefully
in the future.


The United States, which is known to use Dubai as a listening
post to monitor Iranian activity, is a staunch UAE ally.


"We have been successful in balancing both sides," said Abdulla.
"The Americans and Iranians know they have been given leeway here
to do things they couldn't do elsewhere. I hope they do not
tamper with the stability and security that this country is
providing everybody."


The UAE prides itself on its diplomacy, and relations with Iran
are thriving despite a 30-year feud over three Gulf islands,
which the UAE considers occupied by Iran.


The federation, whose natives are mostly Sunnis, also sees the
large presence of Shiite Iranians as another example of its
social tolerance.


"In terms of the Shiite-Sunni conflict, the UAE, with its large
Iranian population, (shows) that it is possible to maintain a
cohesive relationship between the two parties," said Narayanappa
Janardhan, political analyst at the strategic think-tank Gulf
Research Centre.


"Dubai is a platform where you don't worry about sectarianism."

