

Phil Neville believes the finishing skills of his Everton team-
mate Andrew Johnson can make the difference in England's crucial
Euro 2008 qualifier against Israel on Saturday.


Injuries to Peter Crouch and Michael Owen have left Johnson in
pole position to partner Wayne Rooney in the England forward line
in Tel Aviv on Saturday, and Neville has no doubt about Johnson's
ability to seize the high-pressure opportunity that fate has
served up to him.


"It will be no problem for AJ," Neville said. "He's the most
natural finisher in the squad and he's in great form.


"He doesn't need a second chance to stick a goal away. In an
atmosphere like we can expect on Saturday, you need goalscorers
on the pitch and he is our best one at the moment."


Johnson's late winner against Arsenal on Sunday was his 12th goal
of a season that has been repeatedly interrupted by injuries,
and, according to Neville, that strike was testimony to the
former Crystal Palace and Birmingham striker's quality.


"If anyone is going into this match full of confidence it's AJ,"
added Neville, who stands a good chance of winning his 56th cap
in Israel.


"I think when he was at Palace everyone thought he was a good
goalscorer. But he's surprised everyone with the level he's
playing at now at Everton. He's moved up a level. He's come to a
bigger club and he's taken everything on board and has answered
every question that's been put his way.


"It's fantastic what he's done this season. He's a great lad and
a good friend and I hope he takes his chance on Saturday."


Neville will be hoping to get an opportunity himself with his
elder brother Gary ruled out through injury and first-choice
left-back Ashley Cole suspended for the Israel match.


"There are chances in both full-back positions," Neville
acknowledged. "The gaffer has not named his team yet but I just
have to train well all week and hopefully be selected Saturday.


"But there are other players who can play right back and it's
just about playing the waiting game to find out. It's early in
the week. Later we'll get a better idea.


"But it's a big match and whatever happens, whoever plays, I
think we have to get three points. We have to go out there to
win. We're England, we're going to a very difficult place but we
fear no-one. Any England team has to go out to try and win."


England will travel to Israel confident of taking maximum points
from Saturday's match in Tel Aviv and from group E minnows
Andorra in Barcelona the following Wednesday.


Such an outcome would revive Steve McClaren's squad's hopes of
qualifying for the Euro 2008 finals in Austria and Switzerland.


But Neville readily acknowledges that England will have to
produce better performances than they managed in their two most
recent competitive appearances - a goalless draw at home to
Macedonia followed by a defeat in Croatia that has left them
languishing in their place in the group.


"Israel are not to be under-estimated," he said "They are on
their own ground and we will have to do our homework but that
doesn't mean we are not going to relish the prospect of going
there, getting the three points and improving the form of the
last six months.


"If we play to our potential, hopefully there won't be a problem
but every player has to play to their maximum. It is an away
game. You play away games in the Champions League and even
against the so-called lower countries they are always difficult
games."


McClaren meanwhile has told his players to use the embarrassment
of their 2-0 defeat by Croatia in Zagreb as a motivational tool
for Saturday's mission.


"Yes, the past is motivation," he said. "We need to do better and
it has to start on Saturday. But I do feel we have moved on from
that night in Croatia. We have looked at things and now there is
a real determination amongst everybody, the players and the
staff, to get the job done."


McClaren has called up Preston striker David Nugent to give
himself extra options in the goal-scoring department, and he
disputes suggestions he is gambling on a 21-year-old who has
never played in the Premiership.


"David has been impressive and has scored goals at Championship
level,'' said McClaren. "I have watched him closely and he
deserves a chance for us to have a look at him and play a part.


He has scored for the under-21s as well and I am looking at that
level."

