

Russia on Tuesday denied US press reports that it had threatened
to withhold nuclear fuel for Iran's Bushehr nuclear plant if
Tehran fails to meet UN demands to suspend uranium enrichment.


"I can tell you that the report is not accurate, that there has
been no Russian ultimatum to Iran of any kind," Russian
Ambassador to the UN, Vitaly Churkin, told reporters.


"We continue to regard the Bushehr project as something that is
outside the scope" of the UN sanctions resolutions.


The New York Times, quoting unnamed US, European and Iranian
officials, said a senior Russian security official, Igor Ivanov,
delivered the ultimatum last week to Iran's deputy chief nuclear
negotiator Ali Hosseini Tash.


Hosseini Tash also denied the report on Tuesday.


"It was completely the opposite," he told Iranian state radio.


"Mr Ivanov was trying to convince us that the issue of Bushehr
plant is not linked to the nuclear dossier."


Moscow infuriated Tehran last week by cancelling its March
deadline to deliver fuel for the one-billion-dollar plant it is
constructing near the Iranian city of Bushehr.


In public statements, Russia has accused Iran of failing to make
payments owed to Moscow for the Bushehr project.


European officials told the New York Times that Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov had informed some European governments
last month that Russia had decided not to deliver the nuclear
fuel and that Moscow would publicly say the sole reason was
financial, the paper wrote.


A senior European Union official visiting Washington Tuesday
backed up elements of the New York Times report that Russia was
using the fuel delivery as leverage to get Iran to accept UN
demands it suspend its nuclear fuel work.


"The relevant issue is that the Russians are delaying the supply
of the fuel and today they made a very tough statement: 'We will
not deliver the fuel until you comply with the UN Security
Council'," the official said on condition of anonymity.


"At first this was considered an economic matter. I think that
today, clearly, it goes beyond the economy, it has some political
weight," the official said.


But Churkin insisted that "our deal with the Iranians (on
Bushehr) is still on track."


The Bushehr plant was scheduled to be launched later this year
but has been repeatedly delayed as Moscow and Tehran have argued
over financing and technical difficulties.


"We are not linking it to our discussions here in New York" on
new sanctions broadening those already adopted by the Security
Council in December after Tehran spurned repeated UN demands to
halt sensitive nuclear fuel work.


Churkin said Russia was continuing to work with its partners --
Britain, China, France, Germany and the United States -- "on the
basis of our joint strategy in dealing with Iran."


The six major powers last week agreed on a package of new
sanctions that are to be discussed by the full 15-member Security
Council on Wednesday.


The new punitive measures would ban Iran from exporting arms,
call for voluntary trade sanctions on the Islamic Republic and
expand a list of officials and companies targeted for financial
and travel restrictions because of their alleged links to Iran's
sensitive nuclear and ballistic missile programs.

