

Scotland face fellow World Cup minnows Netherlands here on
Thursday determined to avoid the wooden-spoon in Group A which
has predictably been dominated by Australia and South Africa.


Both lost by embarrassing margins to world number one South
Africa and two-time defending champions Australia, but the Scots
hope to be in the ascendancy when it comes to the sport's second
tier.


"The big thing for us is Holland and we have got to go out and
show we are one of the top associate teams," said stand-in
captain Ryan Watson.


Scotland lost to Australia by 221 runs but batted to their set
plans against South Africa, scoring their highest World Cup score
of 186-8, a performance which gave them renewed confidence ahead
of their final match of the 2007 tournament.


"Holland are a strong side who have run us close a few times.
It's a big game and a slightly different pressure playing them
because we are almost expected to win - and that is something we
have to take on board," said Watson after the seven-wicket loss
to South Africa.


Watson, who stood in for regular captain Craig Wright who was
attending a family funeral in Scotland, said his team must
improve their fielding if they were to achieve their first ever
World Cup win.


"South Africa were magnificent in the field, and those are the
sorts of standards we have to go and achieve if we're going to
win against the Netherlands," said Watson.


South African captain Graeme Smith praised the Scotland team,
saying they were the better of the two associate sides in Group
A.


Scotland outlasted the Netherlands by two runs when they last
competed in the World Cricket League in Kenya earlier this year.


The Dutch and Scottish have one thing in common - both have
former Australian first-class cricketers as their coaches. The
Scots have Peter Drinnen and the Dutch have Peter Cantrell - both
from Queensland.


The Netherlands, mauled by 221 runs by South Africa and by 229
runs by Australia, hoped to improve their current form.


Captain Luuk van Troost said it would be a happy ending if they
beat their fellow associates.


"We are looking to win that game and if we do it would be a
consolation for us," said Troost, whose team has only one World
Cup win - against Namibia - in the 2003 World Cup held in South
Africa.

