

Democrats in the US Congress introduced legislation Tuesday to
fight corruption in the US reconstruction effort in Iraq, which
has been riddled with fraud and waste.


They said their "Iraq Reconstruction Improvement Act" would
increase accountability and oversight of American reconstruction
projects in Iraq.


"Reconstruction has been beset by gross corruption and massive
American and Iraqi bureaucratic confusion," said Democratic
Representative Tom Lantos, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, and the bill's main author.


"The Iraqi people, hoping that the fall of Saddam would bring
peace and prosperity to their country, have instead been handed
half-built hospitals, failed water projects, and a power grid
that is more off than on," he said.


"It is unacceptable that we have failed to deliver the basic
services that would allow Iraqis to live dignified, peaceful
lives."


His bill would increase monitoring of reconstruction efforts in
Iraq and would expand the powers of the Special Inspector General
for Iraq Reconstruction, among other enhanced oversight measures.


"Conscience demands that we consider not only how our country
conducts itself in Iraq and how and when our troops will come
home, but also what we leave behind," said Lantos.


"This legislation creates accountability for our efforts to set
Iraq back on its feet," he said.


As the House legislation was announced Tuesday, the Senate held
hearings on ways to tighten controls on contractors in Iraq,
which Democrats alleged has greatly hiked the cost of the four-
year-old war.


"Our nation has sent nearly a half a trillion dollars to Iraq,
and we're on track to send one trillion dollars with few or no
controls over how that money has been spent," said Senate
Judiciary Committee chairman Patrick Leahy.


"The Bush administration has chosen to use private contractors in
this war to a greater extent than any time in our history. And
the trend has raised the cost of this military action by untold
billion," said Leahy.


The Democratic senator earlier this year introduced a bill, the
"War- Profiteering Prevention Act," which would makes acts of
war-profiteering a crime.


"Billions of dollars spent in Iraq unaccounted for ... may have
been lost to fraud or other misconduct," Leahy said, adding that
the extent of "fraud, waste and abuse in Iraq ... may be
unprecedented in our history."


Stuart Bowen, special inspector general for Iraq reconstruction,
who testified at the Senate hearing, said corruption within the
Iraqi government is also "a serious problem inhibiting all
progress in Iraq."


"We have called it the second insurgency in our reports," said
Bowen, who testified that coalition investigators had uncovered
some 2,000 fraud cases within the Iraqi government, totaling some
eight billion dollars.

