

New Zealand's Prime Minister Helen Clark said Tuesday that ties
with the United States had improved after being strained over
Wellington's refusal to join the US-led war in Iraq and
differences over nuclear policy.


"We have been talking more to each other rather than past each
other, looking closely at where our interests coincide, and
seeking to expand cooperation," she said after talks with US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


Clark said "this fresh approach" to the relationship had seen
some "very positive" dialogue and cooperation," particularly on
Pacific issues but also regional security, counterterrorism and
nuclear non-proliferation.


"New Zealand took a different position on the invasion of Iraq
but we share the hope that peace and a better life will
eventually prevail in that troubled land where so many Iraqis and
Americans and others have died," she told a Washington forum.


US President George W. Bush will welcome her for talks on
Wednesday in her first White House visit since New Zealand,
unlike near-neighbor Australia, refused to join the coalition
which invaded Iraq in 2003.


New Zealand also lost its status as a US ally in 1985 after
banning visits by nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed warships.


Clark said particularly during the second term of the Bush
administration, "there has been a determination to work with us
to find ways through" despite New Zealand's nuclear-free policy.


"Often the nuclear free policy is referred to as a rock in the
road, which you find a way around ... find a way to work around
it," she said.


The premier also expressed the hope that the United States would
agree to a decade-old request by Wellington to launch talks for a
bilateral free trade agreement.


While New Zealand's small size and its already open economy might
not make it an attractive partner, "at some point the substance
of the New Zealand relations with the overall relations with the
United States will be reflected in negotiations" for a free trade
pact, she said.


The United States is New Zealand's second biggest market after
Australia.


The authority given by the US Congress for the Republican Bush
administration to make trade deals expires in June and renewal
would hinge on the Democratic- controlled legislature.


"While we understand the current uncertainties about an extension
to the Trade Promotion Authority, we look forward to a time when
negotiations between us will be possible," she said.

