

The potential merger of British bank Barclays and Dutch group ABN
Amro reflects the rising influence of investment funds in
European corporate management, analysts said Tuesday.


The announcement on Monday that Barclays and ABN were discussing
a possible tie- up followed pressure exerted on the Dutch bank by
the The Children's Investment Fund (TCI), a British hedge fund
holding 1.0 percent of the capital in ABN.


TCI wrote to ABN managers on February 20 calling for either a
breakup of the bank, the sale of some of its activities or the
sale of the entire operation.


For Patrick Degorce, TCI co-founder in 2003 and a signer of the
letter, the proposed steps would be in the interest of
shareholders. The fund noted that ABN shares had stagnated since
May 2000 compared with an average gain of 44 percent for its
competitors.


But in the last month, during which TCI has been joined in its
campaign by another British hedge fund, Tosca, ABN shares have
gained more than 20 percent and are likely to rise further if a
bid by Barclays materialises and is followed by other such
initiatives, according to analysts.


"Several other potential suitors for ABN Amro have been discussed
recently in the press," said Merrill Lynch analyst Stuart Graham
in a research note. He noted that ABN management had warned that
talks with Barclays might fail, which should encourage rival
offers.


Graham cited HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland, as well as
Santander of Spain, as competitors capable of outbidding
Barclays.


TCI in a statement Tuesday encouraged other potential
participants to come forward.


It said it hoped that "the exclusivity granted to Barclays will
not prevent the board of ABN Amro from employing a process that
considers bids by other credible institutions in order to produce
the best result for shareholders."


The Children's Investment Fund, so named because it finances
projects aimed at protecting the rights of children, made its
influence felt in May 2005 when it successfully sought the
resignation of Deutsche Boerse executives Werner Seifert and Rolf
Breuer after mobilising shareholders against their bid to acquire
the London Stock Exchange.


Aggressive financial activism had until then been most pronounced
in the United States, notably through the activities of business
titans Kirk Kerkorian and Carl Icahn and the Franklin Templeton
fund.


In Europe, with their financial firepower on the rise, investment
funds have likewise been starting to assert themselves more
vigorously in the management of companies.


Last week British confectionery and soft drink giant Cadbury
Schweppes, facing mounting takeover speculation, outlined a plan
to split itself into two separate companies.


Cadbury said it would separate its confectionery and Americas
Beverages businesses and would provide more details later this
year.


Speculation had gathered steam over a potential takeover of
Cadbury in recent days, with the company confirming last Tuesday
that US activist investor Nelson Peltz had built up a 2.98
percent stake.


The company, which had been looking for ways to cut costs, denied
that it was under any particular pressure.


The growing clout enjoyed by investment funds has unnerved trade
unions. At a meeting in Paris last Friday union delegates from
around the world called for a clampdown on "cold-blooded"
investment funds that they see as a serious and growing threat to
companies and jobs.


European Union officials have likewise pressed for greater hedge
fund regulation.


But Charlie McCreevy, the EU commissioner for internal markets,
in recent press comments came to the defense of investment funds.


"I believe that private equity houses and activist fund managers
-- including hedge funds -- play a much more valuable role than
government or any regulator in propelling the liquidity of our
capital markets, in reducing the cost of capital," he said.

