

President George W. Bush Tuesday vowed to resist any attempt by
Congress to force top aides to testify under oath about a row
over fired prosecutors, warning against a "partisan fishing
expedition."


In his boldest political language since Democrats seized Congress
in November, Bush accused his opponents of using the escalating
showdown to "score political points" and refused to back down.


Faced with a fierce new partisan fight as he tries to breath life
into a second- term administration hobbled by the unpopular Iraq
war, Bush warned: "we will not go along with a partisan fishing
expedition."


Earlier, the president personally endorsed Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales, who is facing calls for his ouster over the
dismissal of eight prosecutors which critics claim was political
motivated.


The White House also branded as "completely false" reports that
it was already scouting for a replacement for Gonzales, a trusted
member of Bush's Texas inner circle, desperate to thwart
Democrats' demands for blood.


"I will oppose any attempts to subpoena White House officials,"
Bush said, throwing down the gauntlet for his Democratic foes.


The administration earlier agreed to let key figures in the
drama, including Bush's top political advisor Karl Rove, meet
congressional investigators, but not to testify under oath.


Bush did however admit the episode had been poorly handled
following sometimes contradictory explanations of the prosecutor
firings by various administration officials, though he noted it
was within his power to dismiss US Attorneys.


But the Senate moved to ensure it has a say in filling US
Attorney vacancies, voting 94-2 for legislation requiring that
replacements be subject to its confirmation.


Bush offered to send Gonzales and his staff to testify before
Congress and noted the administration had turned over 3,000 pages
of documents in a bid to shed light on the reasons the US
Attorneys were fired.


Bush raised the issue of executive privilege, the convention
which is supposed to safeguard a president's capacity to receive
candid counsel from advisors, saying aides should not fear being
hauled before investigations.


But Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer refused to accept the White
House reasoning, saying key figures must be forced to testify
under oath.


"What is the objection to an oath? If there's nothing to hide and
everyone is telling the truth, there should be no objection.


"What is the objection to having this discussion in public?"
Schumer said on the Senate floor.


Bush's endorsement for Gonzales, whom he handpicked to be his
lawyer in 1995 while still governor of Texas, came in an early
morning call from the Oval Office, Bush's spokesman Tony Snow
said.


"He expressed his support for the attorney general and his strong
backing," Snow told AFP by telephone.


Having been forced to remove defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld
after the Republicans were routed in November congressional
elections, the White House is desperate not to hand Democrats the
scalp of another key administration figure.


Gonzales has also come under fire over an internal probe that
found that the Federal Bureau of Investigation, part of his
department, breached privacy laws in overzealously seeking access
to information about terror suspects.


The head of the Justice Department's probe, Glenn Fine, said
Tuesday he believed the FBI's violations were "serious and
unacceptable."


The controversy at the Justice Department is yet another blow to
Bush, who has sunk to his lowest level in opinion polls.


In the past weeks the administration has been fending off
scandals over the care of wounded soldiers returning from Iraq
and Afghanistan, the conviction of a former White House aide for
perjury and the prosecutors affair.


Bush has also locked horns with the Democratic-controlled
Congress over the war, with the House of Representatives due to
debate this week a Democratic attempt to set a timetable for
withdrawing US forces from Iraq.

