

France's Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal said on
Tuesday she feared a divided left-wing vote could ruin her
chances of making it into the run-off of the April-May election.


"There is a very serious risk of votes scattering in the first
round," Royal told reporters at the Socialist Party headquarters
in Paris, a day after the official list of candidates was
published.


Royal said she would "have to work even harder to rally people
behind my name as soon as round one, to be certain of being in
round two."


French voters will have the choice between seven left- and far-
left candidates, including the left-wing frontrunner Royal, out
of a total of 12 contenders in the multi-candidate first round on
April 22.


In the 2002 election, the Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin was
knocked out in the first round by far-right leader Jean-Marie Le
Pen, with analysts pointing to the fragmented left-wing vote as
an explanation.


"April 22 must not be a repeat of April 21," the now-infamous
date of Le Pen's shock first round victory in 2002, Royal said.


Many French voters use the first round of the presidential
election to make a political statement by backing fringe
candidates, before rallying behind the left- or right-wing
frontrunner in round two.


Royal also said she had appealed in vain to the Green Party's
Dominique Voynet, and anti-globalisation campaigner Jose Bove --
both fringe candidates in the race -- to back her in the first
round.


"No one can doubt my commitment on the environment," she said,
repeating her commitment if elected to increase the share of
renewable energies in France and her opposition to the
underground storage of radioactive waste.


The Socialist candidate is credited with 25 percent of votes in
the first round, behind Nicolas Sarkozy, candidate of the right-
wing governing UMP party, on 29.5 percent, according to an IPSOS
poll for Le Point released on Tuesday.


Francois Bayrou, a centrist who has jumped in the polls to pose a
serious challenge to the two frontrunners, is credited with 21.5
percent in the first round. National Front leader Le Pen comes
fourth with 12 percent.


The eight remaining candidates together muster around 12 percent
of the vote, with postman Olivier Besancenot of the Revolutionary
Communist League leading the pack on 3.5 percent.


In a Sarkozy-Royal run-off, the right-winger would win by 52 to
48 percent, the poll showed.

