

A "perfect storm of violence" is spilling from Sudan into Chad
and Central African Republic (CAR), creating a possible new
humanitarian crisis, a senior US official told a US Congress
panel Tuesday.


Inter-ethnic violence which has plagued Sudan for years is now
roiling the two countries bordering its western Darfur province,
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State James Swan told lawmakers.


Swan told the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Africa
that millions of lives could be in jeopardy in the emerging
humanitarian crisis.


"This rise in communal tensions, coupled by a security vacuum,
has left local populations vulnerable to attacks by ethnic
militias that engage in violence to settle scores, loot villages
and raid cattle and livestock," he said.


As in Sudan's Darfur region, where ethnic Arab Janjaweed militias
have led ruthless raids that have dispossessed and displaced
hundreds of thousands of their countrymen, violence in
neighboring Chad for the most part "seems to be conducted by
Chadian Arabs," Swan said.


"The recent increase in violence in Chad has endangered the lives
of civilians, who are subject to attack by rebel groups,
government forces and ethnic militias, and has reduced the number
of secure humanitarian corridors," he said.


Swan said that recent travelers to the Central African Republic
report a "grave humanitarian crisis" brewing there as well.


He added that humanitarian aid groups working in both countries
have curtailed their efforts because of the growing security
risks.


"Attacks on civilians are widespread in both Chad and CAR, and
have left thousands of civilians without livelihood, shelter or
food."


Swan said deployment of UN peacekeepers to Sudan, Chad and the
Central African Republic offers the best chance of protecting
civilians and fostering regional stability.


"Our position remains that UN peacekeeping forces in Darfur,
eastern Chad and northeastern CAR remain essential," said Swan.


"The United States' priorities in Chad and CAR include limiting
the regional impact of the Darfur conflict, fostering stability,
protecting civilians, refugees, internally displaced persons and
humanitarian workers, and further transformational diplomacy by
promoting political reform and good governance."


The UN Security Council last month began drafting a resolution to
address the volatile situation on Sudan's borders, as UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon recommended sending up to 11,000
peacekeepers to Chad and CAR.


The United Nations estimates that some 200,000 people have died
in the Darfur fighting and 2.5 million have been displaced since
2003.

