

Federal Reserve policymakers, set to conclude a two-day meeting
Wednesday, were struggling to respond to signs of resurgent
inflation at the same time that growth is flagging, analysts
said.


The Federal Open Market Committee, headed by Ben Bernanke, began
its meeting Tuesday and was widely expected to keep the federal
funds rate at 5.25 percent.


The rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a string of
increases last August. But the panel has warned after each
meeting that it could resume rate hikes if inflation kicks up.


In the past few weeks, the Fed has seen hotter-than-expected news
on the inflation front, but also signs of economic weakness,
especially in housing and manufacturing.


Some economists predict inflation will cool, as the Fed expects,
allowing the central bank to cut rates later this year. Others
are less certain.


Goldman Sachs economist Andrew Tilton said he expects "heavy
editing" of the FOMC statement from January in light of the
latest data.


"The more recent data have been quite unfriendly on both the
growth and inflation fronts," he said.


Tilton argued that the FOMC statement "will likely retain an
emphasis on inflation risks and the possibility of additional
monetary tightening down the road," because of higher-than-
expected readings on consumer and wholesale inflation.


But he said the Fed will have to drop its reference from January
to "somewhat firmer economic growth," which "no longer fits the
facts."


Likewise, he said the "tentative signs of stabilization" in the
US housing market mentioned by the FOMC in January are no longer
clear.


Analysts say the Fed is obliged to warn about inflation risks to
keep price expectations from getting out of hand. But it also
must signal a readiness to ease interest rates if the economy
sputters further.


The latest economic data "limits the Fed's room to maneuver and
makes their life more complicated," said Nariman Behravesh, chief
economist at the research firm Global Insight.


"I think this will be reflected in the statement with a more
balanced outlook for the risks on inflation and growth,"
Behravesh added, saying he expected "a little more emphasis on
the weakness in housing."


"The year will begin with weak growth and high inflation," he
said. This likely means the Fed "will be on hold for most of this
year."


"The only thing that could change this is if growth is
substantially weaker than expected."


If the economy, which expanded at a 2.2 percent pace in the
fourth quarter, slows to 1.5 percent or below, "the Fed might
have to think about a rate cut," according to Behravesh.


Robert Brusca at FAO Economics agreed the Fed's safest move is to
do nothing.


"On balance, questions about Fed policy tradeoffs still seem to
answer themselves, by asking for the Fed to wait before risking a
step in the wrong direction," he said.


"We think the Fed is stuck where it is with policy until the
economy tips more of its hand on both growth and inflation."


Some analysts say it might be dangerous for the Fed to do nothing
if the economy is floundering, given the months-long time lag
before monetary policy changes take effect.


"We are projecting the economy to grow just 1.8 percent this
quarter, thereby marking the fourth consecutive quarter in which
growth has been below trend," said economist Joseph LaVorgna at
Deutsche Bank.


"We are increasingly worried that the Fed is going to stay on
extended hold, even in the face of weakening economic activity.


"For now, we are holding to our view that there is sufficient
weakness in the pipeline for the labor market to deteriorate in
the months ahead -- enough to push the Fed to ease rates by the
end of the third quarter."

