

A claim by a lawyer for David Hicks that the Australian "war on
terror" detainee was forcibly sedated at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba is
"blatantly false," a US military spokesman said Tuesday.


Hicks was offered and accepted a "mildly sedating" mixture of
medications  on February 2 after his lawyer, Major Michael Mori,
asked medical staff at the detention center to pay particular
attention to his client's stomach pain, the spokesman said.


"Claims that Mr. Hicks was 'forcibly sedated' are blatantly
false," said Commander Robert Durand, a spokesman for the
detention operations at Guantanamo.


Hicks, a 31-year-old Muslim convert captured in Afghanistan in
late 2001, was charged March 1 with "material support for
terrorism" and is due to be arraigned later this month.


Mori told ABC radio in Australia that Hicks was given a drug to
counteract stomach pain shortly before being told of the new
charge.


"David took it and then it started to basically sedate him," Mori
told ABC radio.


"The next thing he knew, he was being taken out of his cell and
somebody was talking to him about charges and he really couldn't
comprehend what was going on. And it lasted for almost 24 hours."


Durand said the drug was a mixture of a liquid antacid and a mild
anesthetic, which "can be both mildly elevating and mildly
sedating and work to relieve nausea and control pain."


On the same day, Hicks also received Benadryl, which also can be
mildly sedating, Durand said in an email.


"He was seen again the next day and said the medications had
improved his stomach pain. He made no mention of any adverse side
effects," he said.


When Hicks was being advised of the charges against him, he asked
when he would receive the next dose of the medication for his
stomach pain, Durand said.


"He made no mention of any adverse effects from the medication
and he appeared lucid and understood what was going around him,
engaging in conversation and asking questions about the meaning
and effect of the unsworn charges," Durand said.

