

The United States issued a very muted criticism Tuesday of
controversial constitutional reforms being rushed to a popular
vote by the Egyptian government next week, just after a visit by
US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


"You have to put this in the wider context of political and
economic reform in Egypt," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said when asked about the reforms which the Egyptian
opposition has denounced as anti-democratic.


McCormack declined to discuss specifics of the contested
constitutional amendments, saying, "I don't want to offer at this
point too detailed an explanation of our views," he said.


"I, quite frankly, don't want to insert the United States
government in the middle of what should be a domestic political
event in Egypt," he said.


The amendments to 34 articles of the constitution were proposed
by President Hosni Mubarak and approved by Egypt's government-
dominated parliament late on Monday.


The government then said the changes would be put to a referendum
on March 26, 10 days earlier than previously planned.


Mubarak says the changes will enhance democracy by strengthening
the role of political parties.


But critics say the amendments are designed to pre-empt recent
political gains by the opposition and pave the way for Mubarak's
son Gamal to take over the reins of power.


One contested amendment repeals judicial supervision of ballot
boxes that was credited by the opposition for their gains in
recent elections.


Another change would allow authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


The London-based rights group Amnesty International on Saturday
said the reforms represented the "greatest erosion of human
rights in 26 years."


Pressed by reporters about some of the more controversial
elements in the reform package, McCormack acknowledged "some
concerns" about certain amendments which appear to run counter to
government promises concerning police powers and the evolution of
multi-party politics.


"I think, if you look at some of the amendments that have been
finally passed by the lower house, it does certainly raise
questions about whether or not the Egyptian government has in
fact met its own standards and benchmarks," he said


But McCormack brushed aside opposition complaints that the
constitutional changes were being rushed to a referendum without
sufficient time for voters to judge the changes.


"In the modern world, today, it is certainly theoretically
possible to obtain and analyze a large amount of information in a
short period of time," he said.


The reaction was in marked contrast to statements made by Rice
soon after she became secretary of state in January 2005, openly
calling for greater democracy and openness in Egypt under
Mubarak, a key Washington ally.


Rice is due to meet with Mubarak and other Arab officials on
Saturday in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan as part of a
Middle East tour focused on Arab- Israeli peace efforts.

