

Under-fire World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz on Tuesday hailed
unanimous support from the bank's board for his campaign against
corruption, and played down tensions over the policy.


Speaking to reporters, he said a watered-down strategy paper to
fight graft in the bank's lending to poorer countries had been
given full backing by national directors on the board.


"We've had several engagements of the board on this paper. We had
clear unanimity, there's no question about it," said Wolfowitz,
who has been attacked for focusing more on corruption than on
global development.


"This issue of governance is a critical issue for development,"
the former deputy Pentagon chief stressed, highlighting the
bank's anti-graft work in Liberia and the Democratic Republic of
Congo.


Leaked minutes from a January board meeting showed the national
representatives in open revolt against Wolfowitz, who was
controversially nominated two years ago by the US government to
succeed James Wolfensohn.


But Eckhard Deutscher, Germany's representative on the World Bank
board, underscored "good relations" between management and
directors over the latest version of the corruption strategy.


"Now, a lot of work still lies before the implementation. I must
say I'm happy that we came to such a broad, common conclusion,"
the German official said.


Wolfowitz already had to alter his contentious drive after a
chorus of criticism from both rich and poor nations at the bank's
annual meeting, in Singapore, in September.


Details of the new campaign are yet to be fleshed out, but the
strategy emphasizes the need to engage more with civil society,
the private sector and the media in the World Bank's client
countries.


However, Wolfowitz has been forced to backtrack from initial
plans to bypass national governments more, in a bid to ensure
that aid gets to the deserving.


"We have to get involved. But in getting involved, we bring
money, but we also need to work with governments to improve
governance," he said.


A country like Liberia, now run by Africa's first elected female
president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, had the "goodwill" to fight
corruption but limited means "to stop money disappearing into
somebody's bank account" without outside help.


Countries like Britain, France and Germany were all wary about
attaching restrictive conditions to the World Bank's
multibillion-dollar development assistance.


But Wolfowitz insisted that some of the most vocal critics of the
strategy, such as Britain, did not disagree with its general aim
to quell corruption.


"We've had frankly consistent support from the UK on the matter
of governance," he said.


In a February report, the World Bank said it had investigated
more than 400 cases of corruption in its lending projects in
recent years and punished more than 100 people and companies for
financial wrongdoing.


In earlier decades, some kleptocratic leaders in the developing
world personally enriched themselves with the help of largesse
from organizations like the World Bank.


But civil society groups have led criticism that Wolfowitz risks
endangering the very impoverished people who are meant to benefit
from reforms. He insisted it was possible to marry clean lending
with anti-poverty work.


"We can't sit around and wait three or five years for the
governance situation to be perfect. We have to produce some
results and do it in a way that keeps track of where the money's
going," he said.


"Is it difficult? Yes. Is it impossible? I don't think so. And is
it important? Absolutely."

