

US Vice President Dick Cheney sought more medical attention
Tuesday for a blood clot in his left leg after feeling discomfort
there 15 days after it was first discovered, his office said.


Cheney returned to work after going to George Washington
University-Medical Faculty Associates here under his doctors'
advice for a new ultrasound imaging of the deep venous thrombosis
in his leg, said his spokeswoman, Megan McGinn.


"The vice president experienced discomfort in his left lower leg
this morning," McGinn said.


"The ultrasound revealed no extension or complication of the
clot," she said, adding that blood-thinning medication he has
taken since the blood clot was found earlier this month "was
found to be therapeutic."


"These results are expected and reassuring, and the current
course of treatment will continue. The vice president has
returned to the White House to resume his schedule," she said.


The 66-year-old vice president, who has suffered four heart
attacks, had sought medical attention on March 5 for a blood clot
in his left leg and was told to take blood thinning medication
for several months.


Cheney, who would lead the United States if President George W.
Bush became incapacitated, had just traveled some 25,000 miles
(40,000 kilometers) and logged 65 hours on an airplane on a nine-
day trip to Japan, Australia, Pakistan and Afghanistan when he
first sought treatment.


Once a heavy smoker, he has a history of coronary problems,
experiencing his first heart attack in 1978 when he was only 38
-- the same year he won the first of five two-year terms in
Congress representing Wyoming.


In 1988 he underwent quadruple coronary artery bypass surgery,
and went on to become defense secretary under the first president
George Bush over the following four years, overseeing the US
invasion of Panama and the 1991 Gulf War.


He had his fourth heart attack in 2000, the year he and Bush won
election to the White House. He underwent an angioplasty weeks
after being sworn in as vice president in 2001.


In September 2005 he had an operation for blood clots behind each
of his knees, and in January 2006 he was hospitalized for
shortness of breath.

