

Western clothes are set to hold sway when India kicks off its
annual fashion week on Wednesday, but a few designers will be
attempting to bring modern Indian women back into the fold of the
sari.


"The sari is such a versatile garment," said Gaurav Gupta, one of
87 designers who will unveil the trends for autumn-winter 2007 at
the six-day clothing extravaganza.


"At times people don't wear it because there has not been enough
innovation in it," said the designer, who will be putting his
'semi-constructed' sari on the catwalk as a new twist to the
Indian fashion staple.


Gupta has used ruching and gathering techniques on the garment to
make it easier to drape. The sari end, which usually rests on the
shoulder, has been constructed like a sleeve to make it easier to
handle.


"These experimental saris sell more. Women tell me that I have
made them wear the sari again," said the designer.


While some of India's internationally-acclaimed designers -- such
as Manish Arora and Anamika Khanna -- will focus on Western
designs, several others will also be trying to update traditional
fashions.


Designers Puneet Nanda and Chiara Nath of the Satya Paul label
have gone a step further than Gupta: their sari collection,
inspired by the cricket World Cup underway in the Caribbean, has
prints of flags of participating countries.


"It is meant for a very bold clientele. We have tried to maintain
a balance between saleability and design element," said Nath,
whose label has designed saris for popular cricket television
show hostess Mandira Bedi.


Various estimates of India's young fashion business put its size
between 50 and 250 million dollars -- a small fraction of the
country's 12-billion-dollar domestic textile industry.


A study released last month by industry body ASSOCHAM estimated
that the fashion sector could grow tenfold in the next five
years.


Industry watchers also say that despite the growing appeal of
Western clothes for daily wear among women, there is little to
suggest that there has been a dent in sales of sari.


"It's not that anything has gone out to make space for Western
wear, it's just that the wardrobes have got bigger," said
Priyadarshini Narendra, Associate Director with retail
consultants Technopak Advisors.


Narendra cited the findings of a consumer survey carried out last
year, which found that women spent nearly half of their expenses
on clothes on Indian ethnic wear -- saris and salwar-kameezes,
traditional pants and tunic.


"There is so much you can do with a sari -- the embroideries, the
weaves, the prints. The sari lends itself to everything so
beautifully. It covers you and yet makes you look sexy," said top
fashion consultant Harmeet Bajaj.


Conscious of the limited appeal of the sari with the trendy set,
designers say they were trying to keep up with the sensibilities
of the stylish woman.


"When I was getting married in 1990, I told myself that this
regular sari with a blouse and a petticoat is not for me," said
designer Rina Dhaka who is credited with first putting style into
the modest sari.


"So I did saris with figure-skimming lycra petticoats and bra
tops," said Rina Dhaka.

