

Fidel Castro, who has been recovering since intestinal surgery he
underwent almost eight months ago, could return to lead communist
Cuba "soon," a top cabinet member said Tuesday.


"What we are expecting is that we will have him back (at work)
with us, in a more active way, soon," Communist Party Politburo
member and Basic Industry Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters.


Castro, 80, handed over power for the first time in more than
four decades in July to his brother and regime number-two Raul
Castro, 75, following the surgery.


"Our comandante is recovering, his recovery process is making
progress," Garcia said. "I would say that he is already with the
leadership that agrees on the main issues, and the country's most
important decisions. And he also very involved in all these
areas: oil and energy, on which he always has been in the lead."


"We have been receiving his direction, the instructions he gives,
and the outlook is very good, very favorable," added Garcia, in
an unusual level of detail on Castro's health, which Cuba regards
as a state secret.


Speculation on Castro's health has at times appeared wild over
the past several months; US officials at one stage suggesting
that Washington's longtime nemesis had just days left to live.


Much to the chagrin of hardline Cuban exiles in Miami, who had
prematurely danced on his grave, video footage of Castro
broadcast on January 30 showed him looking healthier and more
alert than in the previous pictures released by Cuban
authorities.


Bolivian President Evo Morales, a close Castro ally, said Monday
that Fidel Castro would make his first public appearance since
last year on April 28, at a meeting in Havana of leaders from the
alternative development group Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), backed by Cuba.


"I think that was a remark President Evo (Morales) made, and he
must have some basis on which to have made it," Garcia told
reporters.


In Bogota, a photograph published Tuesday in a Colombian daily
shows a lively Fidel Castro speaking with writer Gabriel Garcia
Marquez, the newest evidence that the Cuban leader appears to be
recovering well from surgery.


The picture in El Tiempo shows Castro speaking with the Colombian
Nobel Prize- winning novelist, who visited Castro in Havana on
March 12, in what appears to be a garden in a residence.


Dressed in a sweatshirt in red, white and blue Cuban colors,
Castro is addressing Garcia Marquez, who is smiling and listening
attentively.


On Monday Garcia Marquez told AFP that "Fidel is very well,
better than many think."


Castro has been mostly out of sight since turning over power July
31 to his brother. His lengthy convalescence has generated much
speculation as to whether he will return to power, and if so, to
what extent.


Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque said in Portugal on
Friday that Castro had gained weight and is exercising daily.


On July 16, when asked if Fidel would seek re-election in 2008,
national assembly leader Ricardo Alarcon told journalists: "I am
certain (Fidel Castro) will be in perfect condition to continue
assuming this responsibility."

