

Australian pace sensation Shaun Tait was all game for the clash
against world number one South Africa, saying any pre-match talk
of him being a "weak link" doesn't perturb him.


"I couldn't care less what Daryll Cullinan or others have to say
for me. To be honest it doesn't bother me at all. I don't know
him," said Tait of former South African batsman Cullinan who
described Tait as the weak link in Australia's attack.


"I suppose being the young bloke in the side coming up there's no
reason why they shouldn't target me but I am looking forward to
the match," said Tait of Australia's last group A match on
Saturday.


The 24-year-old South Australian pace sensation has taken over
from spearhead Brett Lee, who had to pull out of the World Cup
because of an injured ankle.


Tait, who managed 2-45 against Scotland and 1-29 against the
Netherlands, thinks bowling to South Africa batsmen would be a
challenge.


"It should be a good hit-out, two of the better sides in the
competition and they have powerful batting line-ups. I suppose
our fast bowlers and spinners have really got to be on the ball.


"It should be cracking game and everyone is waiting for it."


Tait believed giving him the new ball was justified.


"I think it is more important when the new batsman comes in, in
general, and if we get a couple of early quick wickets, (Glenn)
McGrath comes on."


"The batsman is at his weakest early on, especially if it's
reversing a bit it's quite hard to pick up on these tracks so
it's quite a good time to bring me on. I hope to do the same job
Lee used to do," said Tait of dismissing South African captain
Graeme Smith early.


Tait said it would be important to learn from recent mistakes.


"We saw what happened when we were a little bit off in New
Zealand and South Africa has got a powerful batting line-up,"
said Tait of the matches in New Zealand last month when Australia
lost 3-0 and failed to defend big totals.


Tait refused to be drawn in predicting the outcome of the South
Africa match.


"I think the Australian team has had the ability to do that
(beating any team) for the past 10 years, to put doubt in the
opposition's minds and some of the guys' presence around the
field, as well.


"I'm not going to get too overconfident and start telling people
who I'm going to get out but hopefully if the ball moves around
early I should be quite dangerous."


Tait said he was gaining in speed, besides confidence.


"I think I'm building up to it, so hopefully there will be some
really quick spells coming up.


"I've been a little bit disappointed but I suppose the different
conditions, pretty hot and dry and a flat wicket, it's probably
not the ideal place to be bowling high 150s but my body is
definitely working up to it."

