

New Zealand booked their place in the World Cup Super Eights with
a 183-run win over Kenya here Tuesday.


Victory left New Zealand with two wins from its first two
matches, assuring the Black Caps of one of the two qualifying
spots out of Group C.


Kenya and England, the only other teams that can win two games in
this group, play each other on Saturday.


New Zealand's total of 331 for seven was a record score in the 12
one-day internationals played at the Beausejour Cricket Ground.


In reply Kenya, who collapsed to 29 for four, were bowled out for
183 although they took the match to the last over.


Ross Taylor's 85 led the way for the Black Caps while Craig
McMillan hammered 71 off just 48 balls with five sixes and three
fours to take the team past the 300 mark.


There were fifties too from Scott Styris (63) and skipper Stephen
Fleming (60).


New Zealand's total surpassed Pakistan's 303 for six against the
West Indies here in 2005.


McMillan, who made 71 off just 48 balls with five sixes and three
fours, took New Zealand past the 300 mark with some typically
blazing hitting.


New Zealand had been nought for one after opener Lou Vincent
suffered his second succesive duck of the tournament, after
making nought in the six-wicket win against England, when he
edged Thomas Odoyo to Kenya captain Steve Tikolo at second slip.


Kenya's slump, however, was far worse.


Paceman Michael Mason, in for off-spinner Jeetan Patel, had David
Obuya lbw with a yorker for one and then fellow opener Maurice
Ouma (four) was run out by Vincent's direct hit from the covers.


Two wickets were then lost for three runs.


First Tikolo skied Mason to Daniel Vettori at mid-off and then
Kenya, in a sign this wasn't their day, lost Tanmay Mishra when
the batsman was dropped by wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum off
left-arm quick James Franklin only for first slip Fleming to
catch the rebound.


Ravindu Shah made a stylish 71 and Thomas Odoyo an entertaining
42 but the duo were only delaying the inevitable.


Earlier, the Kiwis fought back through Fleming and Taylor.


However, Taylor was dropped on seven when he turned Peter Ongondo
to the on-side and a diving Mishra at square leg just failed to
hold what would have been a spectacular one-handed catch.


In front of a sparse crowd, Fleming went on to make an assured 60
off just 61 balls with three sixes and seven fours.


However, his innings ended farcically when he ran himself out
going for a non- existent single after Taylor flicked Jimmy
Kamande backward of square leg to Collins Obuya.


Taylor had made 72 when he received treatment for a right
hamstring strain with New Zealand 177 for two in the 32nd over
and Vincent had to act as his runner.


However, Taylor was still able to sweep off-spinner Tikolo for
six.


Two balls later he was out when he chipped a gentle return catch
to Tikolo, having faced 107 balls with that one six and eight
fours.


Kenya's spinners suffered in a surge that saw 100 runs scored off
the last 10 overs while the attack conceded a wasteful 21 wides
in total.


Before play began a minute's silence was observed by players,
officials and spectators in memory of Bob Woolmer, the Pakistan
coach, who died on Sunday.

