

Ecuador's congressional president on Tuesday swore in substitutes
for 21 of the recently ousted 57 lawmakers, enabling it to hold
its first formal session after two weeks of political crisis.


Ironically, Jorge Cevallos had objected to the presence of the
substitutes shortly before he swore them in.


The 21 made their way into the Congress building before dawn,
despite the deployment of 1,200 police officers who were ordered
to prevent the 57 ousted opposition lawmakers from entering the
premises.


"This is not logical, this is not authorized, this is not prudent
for the country," Cevallos initially said of the substitutes'
presence.


He made the comments during a debate held to decide whether the
100-strong Congress could hold a formal session without a quorum,
but the issue was resolved with the swearing-in that increased to
55 the number of deputies present.


The unusual debate reflected the deep political crisis that has
rocked the South American country since a court fired 57
opposition members who sought to block far-reaching
constitutional reforms proposed by leftist President Rafael
Correa.


On March 13, several of the ousted lawmakers defied police and
made their way into the Congress after engaging in shoving
matches with officers and Correa supporters.


One of legislators said he had been beaten up by security forces,
but police claim he hurt himself jumping from the gallery. That
session was called off for want of a quorum.


On Tuesday, about 200 Correa supporters yelled abuse at a smaller
group of demonstrators opposed to next month's referendum over
whether to elect a national assembly that would rewrite the
constitution.


Correa, who was sworn in to a five-year term on January 15, has
said he planned to reverse free-market measures, renegotiate
foreign oil contracts and cease doing business with the
International Monetary Fund.


Opinion polls show 70 percent of Ecuadorans support his proposal
for a Constituent Assembly, but critics claim it is
unconstitutional and inspired by President Hugo Chavez of
Venezuela, where a National Assembly of elected supporters of the
firebrand leftist leader rewrote the constitution in 1999.


Correa has expressed support for the firings of the opposition
lawmakers and insisted the crisis it triggered would not threaten
his job.


Among the most volatile countries in Latin America, impoverished
Ecuador has seen seven presidents come and go since 1996, three
of them leaving amid tumultuous uprisings.

