

South Korean actor Song Kang-ho hailed Asia's filmmakers after he
and his comptriots blitzed Hong Kong's inaugural Asian Film
Awards, aimed at showcasing the depth of talent in the region.


At a glitzy, harbour-side ceremony in Hong Kong, Song won best
actor for his performance in South Korea's smash hit monster
movie "The Host", which swept the awards, winning four of the
five nominations, including best picture.


Among those bringing glamour to Tuesday night's event were Bond
girl Michelle Yeoh, French director Luc Besson, Hong Kong actress
Maggie Q, star of "Mission Impossible III", and Japanese idol
Hirosue Ryoko.


Director Andrew Lau of "Infernal Affairs" which was remade into
Oscar-winning gangster flick "The Departed" was also among the
stars to tread the red carpet.


But the gala, organised by the Hong Kong International Film
Festival, now in its 31st year, lacked some of the powerful names
nominated for awards including Chinese director Zhang Yimou and
Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan.


Chinese stars Gong Li and Zhang Ziyi who both starred in "Memoirs
of a Geisha" were also absent.


Song defeated fellow Korean idol Jung Ji-hoon, better known as
Rain, as well as heart-throbs Andy Lau and Chang Chen for the
coverted gong.


A thriller-cum horror, "The Host" tells a story of a mutant
monster spawned by toxic waste released from a US military
morgue.


"I'm really honoured to receive this award and be around such
great Asian filmmakers," said 40-year-old Song who plays a slow-
witted man fighting to rescue his daughter abducted by the
monster.


The film also won best visual effects and cinematographer.


China's Jia Zhangke picked up best director for "Still Life"
which also won at the Venice Film Festival last year.


It tells the story of the devastating social impact of China's
Three Gorges Dam on residents of a town forced to leave to pave
the way for construction of the massive project.


Japan's Nakatani Miki of "Memories of Matsuko" was crowned best
actress, beating rivals and Chinese starlets Gong Li and Zhang
Ziyi.


"I've never expected to receive this award so I'm very surprised
and honoured...I'll try my best to craft great movies from now
on," she said before an audience of thousands at Hong Kong's
Convention and Exhibition Centre.


In the minor categories, Indonesia's Rahayu Supanggah of "Opera
Jawa" won the best composer prize, beating Hong Kong's Peter Kam,
winner at the 2006 Berlin Film Festival for his composing
talents.


Best editor prize went to Lee Chatametikool of Thailand's
"Syndromes and a Century" while Tim Yip of "The Banquet" won best
production design.


Mani Haghighi of Iran's "Men at Work" received the best
screenwriter award.


Hong Kong actor Andy Lau, from "House of Flying Daggers", was
awarded as the highest grossing actor in Asian cinema.


David Bordwell, who has written extensively on Asian cinema, and
long-time Hong Kong actor Josephine Siao Fong-fong, winner of of
1995 Berlin Film festival for her role in "Summer Snow", received
special honours for their contributions to the Asian industry.


More than 30 films from across the region vied for the 10 prizes.


The awards and the film festival will be held in conjunction with
the third Entertainment Expo, which runs from Tuesday through
April 15 and combines eight events in film, digital entertainment
and music.

