

Soldier Itamar Ron spent the day playing sick as a fake victim of
a fake chemical attack by fake terrorists -- an actor in a
nationwide drill that underscores very real anxieties in Israel.


"I'm a 49-year-old woman. I'm sweating and crying and I can't
see. I'm salivating. I have pressure in my chest," the 19-year-
old infantryman says, reading from a sign hung around his neck.


He is one of the players enacting a chemical attack on an
elementary school in this town just north of Tel Aviv -- one of
eight such drills taking place over two days this week across
Israel with the aim of preparing police, medics, firefighters and
soldiers for various attack scenarios.


The drills include a simulated rocket barrage against the
southern town of Sderot, a toxic plume in Beersheba and a missile
strike on a Tel Aviv chemical plant.


A "mega-terror attack" is scheduled for Wednesday at 11:00 am in
the coastal enclave of Netanya.


The focus on chemical attacks comes a week after a chlorine bomb
in Baghdad sent hundreds to the hospital with burning eyes and
breathing difficulties. But despite mounting anxiety among
Israelis about the Iranian nuclear programme, none of Tuesday's
mock attacks were nuclear.


"The nuclear matter is not a threat in the coming year," National
Fire and Rescue Commissioner Shimon Romasch said.


The massive two-day drill, the biggest and first of its kind
here, includes 5,000 police officers, or 25 percent of the
force's total manpower, more than 1,000 soldiers and close to
1,500 medics and firefighters.


Michal Orr and her five-year-old son watch as two "terrorists"
with red checkered head scarves pour out of a rented Mazda waving
Kalashnikov rifles. The pop-pop-pop of firecrackers simulate
machine gun fire. Yellow plumes of faux- toxic smoke billow
skyward from the basketball court.


"It's very frightening. I have a child in kindergarten and it
makes me nervous just watching this even though I know it's only
practice," says Orr, who lives near the elementary school in
Ramat Gan.


Dozens of ambulances and fire trucks scream into the parking lot.
Medics in yellow chemical suits and gas masks plod out to treat
the would-be victims, playing dead and covered in stage blood.


A man in a neon vest paces back and forth barking orders in a
bullhorn. The sign on his chest reads simply "Director."


Teenage soldiers who have been pulled away from their regular
duties manning West Bank checkpoints, act the parts of screaming
children, frantic parents and meddlesome journalists.


"They ordered us to be journalists, to run up with cameras and
just be annoying," said army border guard Moses Cohen, 22. The
sign on his chest reads "Journalist BBC."


A medic scurries to clear people out of the path of ambulances
trying to scream away with the wounded, but hesitates to allow
the real cameramen covering the drills to linger a minute longer
in order to capture the dramatic footage for their evening
newscasts.


Authorities said this week's drills were held in order to
implement the lessons of last year's war with Lebanon's Hezbollah
militia -- a conflict many here consider a failure.


"It seems like a publicity stunt," says Orr. "But it's too late
for this government. They already messed up and we don't have
much faith in them anymore."


However, Israelis know they occupy a precarious piece of Mideast
real estate, surrounded by foes who would prefer they settled
themselves elsewhere.


Israel has fought half dozen wars with its neighbours since it
proclaimed independence in 1948 and faces a constant threat from
Palestinians who have endured military rule and occupation for
four decades.


"These drills are important. I think something big will happen
one day and we have to be ready," says Tal Rakia, 31, a mother of
one who lives across the street from the site of the mock siege.


"Since forever we have always had wars and suicide bombers."

