

China said Tuesday that six-party talks aimed at ending North
Korea's atomic programme was not about to fail, even if a key
weekend deadline to push forward a disarmament deal was missed.


"We have encountered some difficulties which is very natural
because the six- party talks have never been a smooth process, it
is full of difficulties and twists and turns," foreign ministry
spokesman Qin Gang told journalists.


Qin was speaking as North Korea appeared increasingly unlikely to
meet a Saturday deadline to shut down its key Yongbyon nuclear
power plant as part of initial disarmament actions agreed to
during six-nation talks in February.


"I do not agree that if the initial actions are delayed in
implementation, then the six-party talks will fail or will be
invalid," Qin said.


"I say this because the six parties retain a high level of
resolve in realising the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula
and the normalisation of relations with the parties concerned, as
well as maintaining peace and stability on the Korean peninsula."


North Korea has refused to budge on its commitment to close
Yongbyon until it receives 25 million dollars in funds that were
frozen in a Macau bank in 2005 under US anti-money laundering
sanctions.


Washington lifted the sanctions in March, but the return of the
money has been held up in a morass of international banking rules
and red tape.


US envoy to the six-party negotiations, Christopher Hill, told
journalists in Tokyo on Tuesday that it would be difficult for
Pyongyang to meet the Saturday deadline, but downplayed the
significance.


There is something "positive coming out of Pyongyang," Hill said,
citing reports that North Korea was ready to accept UN nuclear
inspectors as soon as it received the money from Macau's Banco
Delta Asia.


China is the host of the six-party talks, which also involve the
two Koreas, the United States, Japan and Russia.


The talks began in 2003 with the aim of ending North Korea's
nuclear ambitions but they failed to stop the Stalinist from
conducting its first-ever atomic test in October last year.

