

An Indian court will this week hear testimony that British model
Elizabeth Hurley and her husband Arun Nayar mocked Hindu
traditions with their "showcase" wedding, a laywer said Tuesday.


A decision whether the glamorous couple should be prosecuted in
the desert city of Jodhpur -- where they wed a month ago but may
now risk jail -- could come as early as next week, said lawyer
Hastimal Saraswat.


The pair staged a lavish ceremony at a Rajasthan fort that was
exclusively covered by celebrity magazine Hello!, which
reportedly paid two million pounds (3.9 million dollars) for the
rights.


But after seeing the pictures in the magazine, an angry Jodhpur
resident hired Saraswat to take legal action.


"Liz Hurley and Arun Nayar insulted Hindu tradition and I want
them to be severely punished," Vishnu Khandelwal, a devout Hindu
who runs a printing press, told AFP Tuesday.


The court has already heard from two witnesses, including
Khandelwal, and will hear testimony from at least three more,
including a Hindu priest, said lawyer Saraswat.


Khandelwal said he was upset when he saw Hurley and Nayar had
taken alcohol prior to the religious rites and kissed near the
sacred fire that Hindus hold to be the witness to the marriage.


"They sat on a sofa and they were supposed to sit on the floor,"
Khandelwal added.


His petition to the court -- which will decide whether or not to
prosecute -- also pointed out that Hurley wore leather footwear
near the fire, in a land that worships the cow.


"Liz and Nayar had already married in Christian tradition. In
spite of this to make a profit they did a showcase marriage in
Jodhpur," said Khandelwal.


The couple wed at an English castle prior to heading east for
their Indian nuptials.


The bride's own father-in-law is considering testifying against
the couple in the case, the lawyer said.


Vinod Nayar told Sunday tabloids in Britain he had severed ties
with his son after the younger Nayar ejected him from the
marriage proceedings at Hurley's behest.


"He is very upset with Liz," said Saraswat. "He has told us that
if you need help in court I will give it."


The petition was filed under section 295 A of the Indian Penal
Code, which makes it an offence punishable by three years in jail
to "outrage" any group's religion with "deliberate and malicious
intention."

