

East Timor's ruling Fretilin party said Tuesday its candidate was
on course to win the country's presidential poll hours after an
election official said a runoff to resolve a tight contest was
possible.


The troubled country's most powerful party said Francisco "Lu-
Olo" Guterres, a former guerrilla fighter, had about 40 percent
of 214,000 votes based on information from party observers at
polling stations.


"Our candidate is now in position to win," Fretilin spokesman
Filomeno Aleixo said after Monday's election for the largely
ceremonial post of president.


"We feel sorry and concerned about manipulation," Aleixo said,
claiming some ballots favouring Lu-Olo were destroyed and many
voters could not cast their ballots.


But the spokesman added: "We will accept the result."


International observers have praised the poll as peaceful and
transparent, and East Timor's national election commission said
that Nobel laureate Jose Ramos- Horta had a slender lead, with a
runoff looming.


Ramos-Horta, the country's current prime minister, was ahead with
about 20 percent of the votes counted, commission spokesman
Martinho Gusmao said. More than 520,000 people were registered to
vote.


"Perhaps no candidate will get 50 percent," Gusmao said, raising
the prospect of a runoff and setting May 8 as the date for the
second round, if it is required. A candidate needs a simple
majority of the votes cast to win.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, a former political prisoner in
Indonesia and chairman of the opposition Democratic Party, was in
second place, Gusmao said.


The commission put Lu-Olo third in the provisional, partial
count, but Fretilin said it was unsure the commission had enough
data to back up its claim.


The commission did not say what percentage of the vote Ramos-
Horta or the other candidates had in the partial count.


But the premier was leading on nearly 30 percent of the vote in
the capital Dili and its surrounding district, with a provisional
count in the area almost complete.


Lasama was second in Dili district on 25 percent, followed by Lu-
Olo.


Observers had forecast a three-way race between the men, although
many expected Lu-Olo and the Fretilin party to pose the biggest
challenge to Ramos-Horta.


Technical problems have delayed the count in most of the country,
a former Portuguese colony later invaded by Indonesia.


Overall results are due this week as the country waits to find
out the successor to the charismatic former guerrilla leader
Xanana Gusmao, who is not seeking re- election.


Monday's vote came after a year of bloody upheaval in East Timor.
At least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced in
widespread unrest during May.


The presidential poll was also the country's first since its
independence in 2002, following a bloody split from Indonesia in
1999.

