

Africa, the continent most vulnerable to the effects of climate
change, is not acting urgently enough to stem the dire economic
and environmental damage of greenhouse gas emissions, the UN
cautioned Tuesday.


The warning came after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) released a report Friday detailing the impacts of
global warming, which, it said, will wreak the most havoc on the
world's poor.


"This report is a drastic message about the impact of climate
change on the economic development of this continent," UN
Environment Programme chief Achim Steiner told a press conference
in Nairobi.


"Africa is on the frontlines of having to cope with the reality
of climate change - not in the future, but today," Steiner added.


But African countries are not acting swiftly enough to address
the effects of climate change on their emerging economies, UN
experts said.


"Unequivocally, African governments are not doing enough,"
Anthony Nyong, one of the main authors of the African chapter of
the IPCC report, told reporters.


"Countries affected by the same climate (together) should invest
in weather systems and share information. We need to go regional
... what is at stake is beyond individual countries," Nyong said.


Incorporating indigenous practices with proven scientific methods
to reduce the catastrophic effects of flooding and drought would
empower local communities in adapting to climate change.


Nyong also cautioned against Africa's continued dependence on
external aid to address global warming.


"It is risky to be eternally dependent on aid to deal with things
that have such a major impact on this continent," he said.


The IPCC report found that up to 1.8 billion people in Africa
will face water insecurity by the end of the century unless
measures are taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.


Between 25 to 40 percent of wild animal species in Africa risk
endangerment, something that in turn threatens the tourism
industry that many countries depend on, according to the report.


Malaria will threaten an additional 80 million Africans as its
spreads from traditionally prone areas to new environments that
will become more favourable to the spread of the disease as
temperatures rise.


But if adaption measures were implemented, the economic and
social costs to African countries could be significantly reduced,
the IPCC said.


Increased flooding and its effects on the continent's coastal
areas due to rising sea levels may claim as much as 14 percent of
a country's gross domestic product. Policies to address these
issues now could meanwhile cost as little as five percent of a
nation's GDP, the report found.


"With better planning and better forecasting, there's hope," said
Anthony Githeko, the report's co-author.

