

Singaporeans on Tuesday criticised hefty pay raises for Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong and other cabinet members, whose
million-dollar salaries are already among the highest in the
world.


Lee's annual pay increased 25.5 percent to 3.1 million Singapore
dollars (2.05 million US), five times what US President George W.
Bush earns and more than eight times Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe's salary.


President S.R. Nathan, who holds a largely ceremonial role, will
now receive 3.19 million dollars a year, up 25 percent, while
ministers' salaries rose by nearly a third to 1.59 million
dollars.


The increase, which came amid a widening income gap, has been
among the most passionately debated issues here in recent years,
and many Singaporeans were unusually blunt in their reactions.


"It's not right, I think it's unfair because we're Singaporeans
and the government should take care of us," said Samsudin, a 55
-year-old office worker earning 1,300 dollars a month.


Doreen Lee, 46, an office administrator who earns about 2,000
dollars a month, said money should not be the main motivation to
serve.


"It's too fast and too great a jump. I see it as, if you love the
country, you will have the heart to serve.... It's about the
passion and commitment to the country, not money," she told AFP.


Chen Ah Hua, 62, who runs a snack shop in the business district
and earns about 1,500 dollars a month, said the prime minister
deserved a high salary.


"But the main thing is they should spare a thought for the poor
and low wage earners. Although Singapore is affluent, there's
still a small portion of people leading hard lives," he said.


Comments were stronger on the Internet, where people can use
pseudonyms.


"I'm utterly disgusted that such weak excuses are used to fatten
the ministers' wallets," wrote Henrietta Yap, who was among more
than 1,000 people who signed an online petition against the
increase.


"Commoners suffer, ministers prosper... What's new?" wrote Brian
Seah.


Some Singaporeans accepted the pay raises, but agreed that money
should not be the main driver for public service.


Officials say the high salaries, pegged to the pay of senior
private sector employees, are necessary to attract the best
people to government and prevent corruption.


A shipping executive who identified himself only as K.W. said the
ministers' salaries were just a "small fraction" of the entire
government budget.


"They need to stay competitive with the pay increase. But how
they arrived at the number for the pay rise is debatable," he
said.


"If this is going to be the trend, this is not correct. If the
motivation is money, it's wrong for the civil sector."

