

The Ethiopian government said late Monday it was holding 41
terrorism suspects of 17 nationalities arrested in Somalia.


"Today, international terrorism is a clear and present danger to
Ethiopia's national security. Ethiopia's concern is not
ideologically motivated. The danger is real, concrete and
palpable," read a foreign ministry statement sent to AFP.


"What is going on currently is a confrontation with international
terrorism in which ... terrorists from 17 countries have been
involved. Ethiopia has the legitimate right to defend itself from
this danger," the statement continued, adding that Ethiopia was
holding 41 suspects arrested in Somalia.


The announcement follows accusations from Human Rights Watch late
last month that Addis Ababa, along with the governments of Kenya,
Somalia and the United States, was secretly detaining hundreds of
people fleeing clashes in Mogadishu.


In a March 30 statement, the rights panel detailed "arbitrary
detention, expulsion and apparent enforced disappearance of
dozens of individuals who fled the fighting" between Ethiopia-
backed Somali troops and the powerful Islamist movement from
December through January 2007.


"Dozens of people have effectively disappeared into Ethiopian
detention facilities," said Georgette Gagnon, HRW's deputy Africa
director.


"It's imperative that the Ethiopians acknowledge the people they
are holding and permit independent international access to them."


Addis Ababa responded to the charge Monday, insisting it had
"tried to be as transparent and as non-secretive as possible in
this matter."


"No expert from any country has been given the right or the
opportunity to question the suspected terrorists without the
presence of Ethiopian personnel. As a result, Ethiopia can
confirm that no detainee has been subjected to violation of
his/her rights, to torture, to inhumane or to degrading
treatment," the foreign ministry statement said.


Addis Ababa insisted that "nothing has been done in secret" and
that almost all states whose citizens were arrested had been
notified "in good time" after the transfer to Ethiopia.


The only exceptions, it said, were "a few individuals" whose dual
or multiple citizenship was being investigated.


The suspects had all been "allowed to appear before the relevant
court of law, in this instance before the competent Military
Court," which had authorised that 29 of them be released, the
ministry said.


"From among these, five have already been released. These are
from Tanzania, Sudan, Denmark, UAE (the United Arab Emirates) and
Sweden," it added.


The 12 prisoners who had not been slated for release would appear
before the military court on April 13, according to the
statement.

