

The Chad army and Sudanese forces fought a deadly border battle
as Chadian troops chased rebels they said had crossed the
frontier, officials from the two countries said.


Sudan said that 17 of its soldiers were killed in the clashes in
the troubled Darfur region while a senior Chadian official told
AFP that about 30 soldiers on both sides died in the clashes late
Monday.


The Chadian official, who requested anonymity, said the Chad
troops had crossed the border and been fought back by Sudanese
forces. The Chadian government denied however that its forces had
crossed the frontier.


A Sudanese army spokesman told the country's official news agency
Suna that Sudanese troops had suffered 17 casualties and 40
injuries in the fighting.


The cross-border skirmish came after deadly battles between the
Chadian army and rebels earlier in the day in eastern Chad.


At least eight government soldiers and "many" rebels were killed
in the clashes with the rebels, said government spokesman
Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor in a statement.


The rebel Chadian National Concord (CNT) acknowledged that 10 of
its fighters had been killed in the battle, which "lasted six
hours" and caused the army "considerable human and material
losses.


The fighting came less than a week after government forces bombed
rebel positions in the east of the country, where unrest has
taken off again following a relative calm since February.


"A column of more than 200 vehicles with armed elements attacked
a defence and security forces position this morning at
Amdjerima," Doumgor said.


"The defence and security forces fought back with determination
to rout the attackers, who as usual had come from Sudan. The
search goes on," the spokesman added.


He said that 38 rebel vehicles had been destroyed.


Chadian authorities said the rebels were from the Union for
Forces of Democracy and Development of Mahamat Nouri, the Rally
for Democratic Forces, which is led by brothers Tom and Timan
Erdimi and Hassan Saleh al-Djinedi's CNT.


A spokesman for the rebel alliance, reached by satellite
telephone, confirmed the clash, while saying that it was
government forces that attacked.


"There was fighting between government forces and men of the CNT,
but it's over and the CNT is still in control of the area," Maide
Id Moura told AFP.


In its statement Monday evening, CNT said "our forces have been
redeployed to new positions."


The CNT last week accused the army of attacking its positions 30
kilometres (20 miles) from the Sudanese border with helicopter
gunships.


The previous weekend, clashes between local groups in the east
resulted in more than 100 deaths.


Chad has accused Sudan's government-backed Janjaweed militia of
involvement in those attacks, but there has been no independent
confirmation.


Chad and Sudan blame each other for supporting rebels in their
respective countries. Both have refused the deployment of a UN-
mandated force to patrol their border.


"Sudan has not abandoned its sinister project of destabilising
Chad," the government said Monday, calling on the population "to
rally more than ever behind the defence and security forces to
preserve their democratic gains, and guarantee sovereignty and
territorial integrity."


The government statement added that N'Djamena "expects the
international community to condemn unequivocally this aggression
against Chad from inside Sudan and take appropriate measures to
force the Sudanese government to abandon its expansionist and
destabilising aims in Chad."

