

A Malaysian firm said Tuesday it has the potential to solve
global warming issues and the world's energy woes by pioneering
the production of ethanol from nypa palm trees as an alternative
fuel source.


Pioneer Bio Industries Corporation officials said the company had
already secured a five-year contract worth more than  66 billion
dollars from a global trading firm to supply the nypa palm-based
ethanol.


Pioneer Bio chairman Badrul Shah Mohamad Noor said the company
was working closely with the Malaysian government's biofuel
project and expected its first refinery to begin commercial
production by the end of 2008.


"By 2020, ethanol will represent 30 percent of global energy.
With the existing nypa palm that we have identified, we can
produce enough ethanol for the requirements of the world," Badrul
Shah told reporters.


Ethanol is produced commercially as a biofuel in Brazil and
Europe, derived from other plant sources such as sugar cane,
cassava, corn and sugar beet.


Studies by the company's scientists indicate the nypa palm is
capable of producing up to 15,600 litres of ethanol per hectare,
more than twice the yield of sugar cane.


Badrul Shah said Pioneer Bio would invest some 43.2 billion
ringgit (12.53 billion dollars) to build 15 refineries in
Malaysia, as well as an integrated township, which would include
a port to export the ethanol produced.


"Our first plant will be ready by the end of 2008 and we aim to
build the others within two years," Badrul Shah said, adding the
refinery would have a capacity to produce 6.48 billion litres of
ethanol per year.


The plant will be built in northern Perak state, where the
company has also secured rights from the state government to
extract ethanol from nypa trees growing wild in swamplands along
the coastal area.


Pioneer Bio will pay the Perak state government 324 million
ringgit a year to harvest the sap from 10,000 hectares (24,710
acres) of nypa palm trees.


Malaysia, a net crude oil exporter, is expanding its biofuel
industries, mainly sourced from palm oil, as high prices for
crude oil cause demand for alternative fuel sources to soar.

