

Thailand's Office of the Attorney General on Tuesday dropped
charges of insulting the monarch against ousted premier  Thaksin
Shinawatra, but chided him for his "impolite" comments.


The former Thai prime minister, deposed in a coup last September,
was facing three charges of lese majeste -- insulting the
monarchy -- stemming from comments he made during last year's
political upheaval.


"All three lese majeste charges against ex-prime minister Thaksin
were dropped on the grounds that he had no intention of harming
the monarchy," said Surmkiat Woradit, director general of the
department of criminal litigation.


"But we do say that his comments were not appropriate, were
impolite, and risked stirring public division, and he should have
not mentioned the monarchy," he added.


Police had recommended the attorney general charge Thaksin on
three counts of lese majeste -- which carries a 15-year jail term
-- for three separate incidents during protests against him.


The first was a comment Thaksin made on December 25, 2005 to a
gathering of taxi drivers. That remark was never made public.


Then on February 4, 2006, the billionaire businessman-turned-
politician made a remark about Thailand's revered 79-year-old
king on his weekly radio show.


Although that comment was widely reported at the time, the
attorney general on Tuesday said the media could not repeat it.


The final charge related to an incident on March 16 last year,
when Thaksin was greeted by supporters waving royal flags. The
accusation was that the crowd had been hired to wave the flags.


Surmkiat said the Office of the Attorney General dropped all
charges because of lack of evidence.


The charge of lese majeste is taken seriously in Thailand. A
Swiss man was last month jailed for 10 years on charges of
insulting King Bhumibol Adulyadej by vandalising his portraits
during a drunken spree.


Thaksin was deposed in a military-backed coup that followed
months of street protests against him and his government for
alleged corruption and cronyism.


Government graft was cited as a justification for the coup. An
anti-graft body is currently investigating 14 alleged cases of
corruption under Thaksin.


No charges have been filed, but Thaksin, who was in New York when
the military overthrew his government, has indicated he could
return from exile to face any criminal charges.

