

Eight months after the war between Israel and Hezbollah in
Lebanon the two foes took their battle to the courtroom on
Tuesday as three captured Shiite militants fought for legal
protection as prisoners of war.


Israel is seeking to brand the militants captured by its troops
in southern Lebanon as "illegal combatants," the same legal
classification used by the United States to deny Guantanamo Bay
inmates due process in American courts.


The militants' Israeli lawyers, however, say they deserve to be
protected by the same international treaties that apply to
prisoners of war.


At a preliminary hearing on Tuesday, the defence argued that
Hezbollah acted as an agent of the Lebanese government while the
prosecution countered that Hezbollah did not reflect Lebanese
government policy.


As enemy combatants the three captives would face murder charges
and the prospects of long stints in Israeli jails. As prisoners
of war, they would be sent back to Lebanon as soon as a prisoner
exchange can be agreed.


The three men -- Mohammed Adelhamid Srour, 20, Hussein Suleiman,
23, and Maher Hassan Kurani, 30 --  were captured on August 4 in
the villages of Aita al-Shaab and Shihine, two Lebanese border
villages on the war's front lines.


They are being charged with attempted murder for setting an
ambush for Israeli soldiers and "membership in a terrorist
organisation." Suleiman is accused of aiding in the capture of
two Israeli soldiers in July, an incident that sparked the month
long conflict last year.


"They are prisoners of war because they were combatants who took
part in a war between two countries, Israel and Lebanon," defence
lawyer Smadar Ben Nathan told AFP.


"Lebanon did not send its own troops to the south to protect it
against the Israeli army but instead relied on Hezbollah. It thus
represented the Lebanese armed forces."


Israel's justice ministry sees things differently. Hezbollah, it
says, is an "illegal terrorist militia" which is not in any way a
regular army.


"The system has decided they should be tried as people who commit
crimes against the state of Israel," justice ministry spokesman
Moshe Cohen told AFP.


"They can not enjoy the privileges of prisoners of war because
they don't abide by rules of engagement. They shoot from within
civilian homes," he said.  "You have to pay the price for what
you did."


Defence lawyers say they hope that wartime declarations by
Israeli and Lebanese leaders will show that Israel entered into a
conflict with another country, a war to which international law
applies.


"On the day that the two Israeli soldiers were taken -- last July
12 -- Prime Minister Ehud Olmert accused Lebanon of an attack
against the state of Israel," the lawyer for Srour said.


Lebanese president Emile Lahoud, meanwhile, "constantly said
during the war that Hezbollah belongs to the national resistance
and is complementary to the army."


Defence attorneys also argue that the captured Hezbollah
militants deserve the same treatment as Israeli soldiers held in
Lebanon.


"I don't think that anybody (in Israel) disputes the fact that
the two Israeli soldiers are prisoners of war. This is why the
government must give (Hezbollah militants) this same status," Ben
Nathan said.

