

The European Commission on Tuesday slammed its fishing industry
for using banned drift nets and inaccurately reporting catch
sizes in a report branding the control of fishing stocks
"unsatisfactory".


Commission inspectors, concerned at declining levels of cod, tuna
and other industry staples, highlighted a number of "serious
shortcomings and discrepancies" in the way the bloc's Common
Fisheries Policy (CFP) was implemented.


These included a lack of sufficient inspections, "use of banned
gear, such as driftnets, and major discrepancies between declared
and observed catches, for example in the Baltic cod fishery".


A Commission spokeswoman added that limits on the amount of time
vessels can remain at sea were being flouted.


The use of satellite-based vessel monitoring systems was marred
by lack of compliance by fishermen, and by member states'
"apparent reluctance to use it as a tool to manage fishing
effort," the EU's executive arm said in a statement.


The rules seemed to be implemented "in such a way as to cause
minimal disturbance to existing fishing activity".


The report, based on Commission inspections and information from
EU member states, found "significant progress" in the 2003-2005
period but added that not enough people were employed to ensure
the fisheries policy was applied.


The Commission also complained that it was "impossible to make
accurate comparisons between the member states' performance using
the information provided," with some countries submitting one-
page reports while others ran to over 100 pages.


"More effective enforcement will require greater commitment and
determination by the member states," Joe Borg, European
Commissioner for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, commented.


"Stakeholders, too, have a crucial role to play in encouraging
compliance with the rules especially at a time when they are
having a greater say in their preparation," he added.


The report calls for closer coordination and cooperation between
member states and "more appropriate and effective sanctions".


The European Union has set up a new system for community aid to
the fishing industry, aimed at modernising and diversifying the
sector threatened by shrinking stocks of several species.


This threat was highlighted last month when the environmental
group WWF warned that bluefin tuna stocks in the Mediterranean
and east Atlantic would collapse within years unless the EU cuts
its fishing of the species by half.


Under the CFP, control is the responsibility of EU member states.

