

Somalia's Islamist movement has vowed to to oppose foreign troops
deployed to help the weak government consolidate its tenuous grip
across the war-fatiqued nation.


"We are not all prepared to allow invaders to trample upon our
sacred rights and bring us under submission," Sheikh Sharif
Sheikh Ahmed, head of the executive arm of the Union of Islamic
Courts (UIC) said, following a meeting with Eritrea's President
Issaias Afeworki.


In a statement posted on Eritrea's information ministry's website
on Monday, Ahmed said: "Somalis are united more than ever and
their nationalism heightened."


Ahmed was speaking nearly two weeks after Ethiopian forces
launched a bloody crackdown on suspected Islamist and clan
insurgents in the Somali capital, sparking four days of fighting.


The Ethiopia troops helped the Somali government dislodge the
Islamists from the country's southern and central regions in
January, igniting an insurgency that has displaced around
124,000.


Ahmed, who is regarded as moderate in the UIC, said Ethiopia
wanted to "wipe Somalia off the world map", the statement added.


Issaias repeated his country's objection to the deployment of
African Union peacekeepers in Somalia to help the government,
saying the recent fighting in Mogadishu "demonstrates the fallacy
of adventure."


The president has called for the withdrawal of Ethiopian troops
as well as 1,500 African Union peacekeepers in Somalia, warning
their presence would worsen the situation.


"Instead of rectifying one's error and committing more acts of
adventurism -- a typical behaviour of gamblers ... the best
option for those parties who keep on making more grevious
blunders is to correct their mistakes," the statement quoted him
as saying.


Eritrea has rejected widespread claims that it was arming the
Islamists while Addis Ababa has justified its intervention,
saying the Islamists posed a threat after they declared a holy
war against Ethiopia.


Over the weekend, US Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs Jendayi Frazer, held talks with Somali officials in the
Somali provincial town of Baidoa.


The New York Times quoted her as saying neighbouring countries
were destabilizing Somalia. Frazer said it was widely known that
Eritrea will "do anything to hurt Ethiopia."


But Asmara dismissed Frazer as an "amateur".


"The Eritrean government is not disposed to reply to such a
statement by an amateur diplomat that does not reflect the US
administration's official stance," the Eritrean foreign affairs
ministry said in a statement.


"It is nonetheless worthwhile to recall that the Eritrean
People's Liberation Front, a quarter of a century ago (ostensibly
when the said junior US official was a high school student), has
been and continues to struggle against terrorism and its
consequences," the statement added.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.

