

The United States formally lodged its WTO complaint on copyright
piracy in China on Tuesday, as fake DVDs and counterfeited luxury
goods became the latest issue to sour trade relations between the
giants.


"We can confirm that we have submitted the complaint (to the
World Trade Organisation)," Magda Sieckert of the US trade
delegation in Geneva told AFP.


Under World Trade Organisation rules, the two countries will now
have 60 days to try to iron out their differences in bilateral
negotiations.


If they do not reach agreement, Washington will then have the
right to demand WTO arbitration.


The United States could then gain the right to impose retaliatory
duties and tariffs on Chinese imports if a WTO settlement panel
ultimately rules in its favour.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab, announcing the action
against China, had said Monday that piracy and counterfeiting
levels remained "unacceptably high" despite Beijing's stated
commitments to tackling the problem.


US companies claim the wide availability of fake goods such as
DVDs, software, luxury goods, books, auto parts, footwear and
even pharmaceuticals deprives them of billions of dollars of
revenue per year.


The United States also filed a separate case at the Geneva-based
trade watchdog on Tuesday accusing China of restricting the
distribution of foreign music, films and books, further
sharpening tensions with the booming Asian giant.


China joined the WTO in 2001 and enjoyed a grace period in the
first few years of its membership. However, members such as the
United States are now flexing their muscles and demanding
stricter enforcement of trade rules.


A report by the office of the US Trade Representative last
December said China's record in implementing its WTO commitments
was "decidedly mixed."


In March 2006, Washington launched a complaint over Beijing's
tariffs on foreign parts for local vehicle assembly, which was
subsequently joined by the European Union and Canada.


A little under a year later, in February 2007, the United States
took China to the WTO in a complaint over industrial subsidies.
And in an unprecedented decision late last month, Washington
announced penalty tariffs on China to offset government subsidies
for paper products.


China warned that the latest US move was ill-informed and would
damage trade relations between the two countries.


"China feels regret and is strongly dissatisfied (with the US
decision)," commerce ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei said in a
statement.


China has issued detailed regulations to fight piracy, but the
continuing widespread availability of pirated goods -- from fresh
Hollywood blockbusters on DVD to fake Louis Vuitton handbags --
is widely seen as proof that not enough is being done to combat
the problem.


Under new rules issued last week in China, anyone who produces
more than 2,500 discs of movies, music or computer software is
now regarded a serious offender and can be jailed for seven
years.


The new rules also allow for jail terms of up to three years for
anyone manufacturing 500 discs.

