

A virus has struck 132 race horses in Hong Kong, authorities
confirmed Tuesday, but racing in the southern Chinese territory
was unlikely to be affected.


Eleven percent of the Hong Kong's race horses were suffering from
a mild form of equine herpes virus, Hong Kong Jockey Club
veterinarian Brian Stewart said in a statement.


"Most horses have returned to training without complications that
may affect the horse's health or future racing performances," the
statement added.


Racing is the most popular sport in the city, with billions of
Hong Kong dollars wagered on the horses every week.


Media reports said one of the world's top sprinters, Absolute
Champion, was believed to among the horses suffering from the
virus, which spread among mounts at the Sha Tin race course's
stables.


"The affected horses have shown a mild fever and occasionally
mild blood abnormalities and mild swelling of the legs," the club
statement said.


Changeable weather in recent weeks was thought to have
contributed to the spread of the virus, it added.


The statement stressed that horses were not suffering from the
more severe equine flu, as some media reports had speculated.


Equine flu felled many horses during the 1992 season forcing the
temporary shutdown of racing.


"The examination of the samples has confirmed they were not
infected with equine influenza," the Jockey Club statement said.


The virus had been discovered by government veterinarians during
routine blood tests over the past few months.


Reports said the virus became apparent when Absolute Champion had
to be scratched from a race on Monday.


"The comprehensive surveillance systems and the aggressive and
early application of disease control measures combined to
contribute to the relatively minor impact of a potentially
serious disease outbreak," Stewart said.


The outbreak follows a similar virus spread among a handful of
horses in February, which officials said came close to shutting
down the city's race programme.

