

The European Central Bank is widely expected to hold its key
interest rates steady at its regular policy-setting meeting this
week, but will likely pave the way for further monetary
tightening in the coming months, analysts said Tuesday.


In a poll of 31 economists by AFP and the financial newswire AFX,
all respondees predicted that the ECB, known as the guardian of
the euro, would holds its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate
steady at 3.75 percent when its decision- making governing
council meets on Thursday.


The euro bank has raised eurozone borrowing costs seven times
since December 2005, each time by a quarter of a percentage
point, with the last move in March.


However, ECB officials, including president Jean-Claude Trichet,
have sent clear signals that further monetary tightening is on
the cards if the current upturn in the 13 economies that share
the euro continues apace.


The ECB was prepared to act in a "firm and timely manner" to
counter inflationary risks, Trichet said in an interview
published with four different European newspapers last week.


Monetary policy in the single currency area remained "on the
accommodative side" and rates were still "moderate," the
Frenchman said.


A few days later, the head of the Dutch central bank, Nout
Wellink, who sits on the ECB's governing council, pointed to the
inflationary risks related to the strong growth of the German
economy, the biggest in Europe.


In the short term, area-wide inflation remains moderate, with the
ECB pencilling in an annual average inflation rate of 1.8 percent
this year, below the bank's ceiling of 2.0 percent.


But inflation could pick up again in 2008, fuelled by a possible
renewed rise in oil prices and higher-than-expected wage deals.


The ECB also believes that the outlook for economic growth
remains positive, which would likewise provide a further argument
for additional rate increases.


Nevertheless, ECB watchers argue that Trichet's choice of
language suggests that the peak in the current rate-hike cycle
might soon be approaching.


In the past, the ECB chief had described the level of interest
rates as "low" as opposed to his latest term, "moderate".


A similar shift has been seen in description of monetary policy
as "accommodative" to "on the accommodative side".


"This is a clear hint that the ECB is not yet finished with
raising rates, but the end is getting closer. We expect one more
step," said ABN Amro economist, Nico Klene.


Out of the 31 economists polled, 27 predicted another quarter-
point move in the refi rate to 4.00 percent in June.


Dresdner Kleinwort economist Rainer Guntermann predicted that
slowing global growth would put the brakes on growth in the euro
area in the second half of the year and that "should push the ECB
into a pause" on rates.


Nevertheless, according to the ECB's own forecasts, area-wide
growth is set to slow only fractionally to 2.4 percent in 2008
from 2.5 percent this year.


Business and consumer confidence in the eurozone is similarly
confident. And in Germany, the influential Ifo business climate
index defied expectations and rose again in March.


"Even if the ECB raises its rates in June, pressure will continue
to mount for additional monetary tightening beyond that as a
result of favourable growth figures," said analysts at JP Morgan.


Commerzbank economist Michael Schubert predicted that the growth
momentum will continue in the second half, persuading the ECB to
raise the refi twice more this year to stand at 4.25 percent at
the end of the year.

