

Iraq's president has apologised to Turkey for recent Iraqi
Kurdish threats to fan separatist unrest in Turkey's mainly
Kurdish southeast, the Turkish prime minister's office said on
Tuesday.


President Jalal Talabani of Iraq telephoned Turkey's Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan late on Monday to express "regret
over the latest statements by Massud Barzani," Erdogan's
spokesman, Mehmet Akif Beki, told AFP.


Beki added that "Talabani underlined that they place great
importance to ties with Turkey".


Barzani, head of the autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq,
was quoted over the weekend as threatening to interfere in
Turkey's restive southeast if Ankara continued to oppose Kurdish
claims on the oil-rich Iraq city of Kirkuk.


Responding to the remarks, Erdogan warned Iraqi Kurds on Monday
that hostility toward his country could result in a "very heavy
cost" for them in the future and charged that the Iraqi Kurdish
leader had "overstepped the line".


Turkey says the referendum on Kirkuk's future status, scheduled
for the end of the year, should be postponed arguing that
thousands of Kurds have been moved into the city to change its
demography.


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad.


Kurdish independence in Iraq, it fears, could fuel the two-decade
separatist insurgency led by the separatist Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK) in southeast Turkey, which has already resulted in
more than 37,000 deaths.


Tensions are already high between the two sides over Turkish
accusations that Iraqi Kurds tolerate, and even support,
thousands of PKK rebels who have found refuge in the mountains of
northern Iraq.


Beki said Erdogan urged Talabani during their telephone
conversation to take measures against militants of the separatist
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) holed up in northern Iraq.


"Talabani said they were ready to fight against the PKK as part
of a common plan with Ankara," the spokesman added.


Turkey has long pressed Baghdad and the United States to crack
down on PKK camps in northern Iraq where, it claims the rebels
are able to obtain weapons and explosives for attacks on Turkish
targets.


The US says it is working to curb the PKK through non-military
means such as cutting off its financial resources.


Ankara has threatened a cross-border operation into northern Iraq
to crack down on the rebel camps if Baghdad and Washington fail
to act against them.

