

South Korea's Red Cross on Tuesday urged North Korea to
investigate the fate of hundreds of abductees and prisoners of
war whom it says are still being detained in the North.


The request was made when Red Cross authorities from the two
Koreas met at the North's Mount Kumgang resort for three days of
talks on the abductees and on expanding separate reunions for
long-parted families.


"In order to make progress in resolving the issue ... it is
necessary (for the two sides) to engage in operations to locate
them and find what happened to them," the South's chief delegate,
Jang Seok-Jun, was quoted as saying by a media pool report.


It was not immediately known how the North responded.


Seoul says 485 of its citizens have been kidnapped since the end
of the 1950-1953 Korean War, and 548 prisoners of war were never
sent home. Pyongyang denies holding any South Koreans against
their will.


Despite its official denial, Pyongyang has allowed a selected
number of POWs or abductees to hold brief reunions in the North
with South Korean relatives as part of a broader family reunion
programme.


North Korea has admitted kidnapping some Japanese during the Cold
War era to train its spies, and family members believe other
nationals apart from Koreans and Japanese were also abducted.


Apart from abductees, Seoul hopes to expand the reunions for
families separated since the conflict half a century ago.


Jang said late Monday he would push for more reunions in his
meeting with Choe Song-Ik, vice president of the North's Red
Cross.


"We will make every effort to solve fundamental problems,
locating those POWs and abductees and easing the pain of many
separated families," Jang said.


The family reunion programme was expanded after a 2000 inter-
Korean peace summit. The reunions are a pressing issue because
many relatives are desperate to see loved ones before they die.


More than 14,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-face reunions
since the summit. The last round was in June last year and the
next will be at Mount Kumgang on May 9-14.


About 2,700 other Koreans have been reunited via video link since
August 2005. These are aimed at people too old to travel for
face-to-face meetings.


Even so, more than 90,000 people from South Korea alone have
still not seen loved ones since the war. There are no mail or
telephone services across the heavily fortified border.


The two Koreas remain technically at war since the conflict ended
in an armistice and not a peace treaty.


Civic groups working for the families of the abductees say up to
80,000 South Koreans were kidnapped during the war itself.

