

Basque separatist group ETA has two active cells ready to launch
terrorist attacks in Spain if its banned political wing is
prevented from entering local elections in May, a newspaper
reported Tuesday.


ETA also has a group in Madrid that is tasked with gathering
information on potential targets, conservative daily newspaper
ABC reported citing unnamed anti-terrorism sources.


The armed group said Sunday it could not imagine the May 27
regional elections in the northern Basque and Navarre regions
taking place without the participation of Basque leftist
nationals like its banned political wing, Batasuna.


"Holding non-democratic elections would extend the conflict," two
unnamed ETA fighters said in an interview published Sunday in
Basque newspaper Gara, the group's usual mouthpiece.


The two also stood by ETA's March 2006 ceasefire declaration
despite a December car bombing at Madrid's airport that killed
two people and threw the Socialist government's peace initiatives
into disarray.


The airport bombing was ETA's first fatal attack since May 2003.


Spain's Socialist government has said Batasuna could only take
part in the local elections if it gave an unequivocal statement
disowning ETA, whose 38-year-old campaign for Basque independence
has claimed over 800 lives.


Batasuna has set up a new party called Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, which hopes to participate in the elections, but
Spanish prosecutors have asked the Supreme Court to ban it.


Last week Spain's deputy interior minister, Antonio Camacho, said
a major police crackdown which police launched against ETA at the
end of March had broken up the group's last remaining fixed cell
on Spanish soil.


The police sweep led to the arrests of at least nine suspected
ETA members in northern Spain and authorities said it dismantled
an ETA cell known as "Donosti" which carried out 24 attacks
between 2004 and 2006.


Police also seized some 170 kilograms (375 pounds) of material to
make explosives as well as several weapons as part of the
operation -- the biggest since ETA's "permanent ceasefire"
declaration in March last year.


Police on Monday found two empty arms dumps in the northern
Basque province of Gipuzkoa which were believed to be used by ETA
members to deliver explosives from France to members of the
Donosti cell, officials said.


The European Union and the United States consider Batasuna --
which won about 10 percent of the vote in the 2001 municipal
elections in the Basque region -- and ETA to be terrorist
organisations.

