

Japanese camera maker Pentax Corp. said Tuesday it will scrap a
plan to merge with optical glass manufacturer Hoya Corp. as its
president resigned amid a boardroom rift over the deal.


Pentax said in a statement it will shelve the planned merger for
now because of the situation within the company and the views of
shareholders, but will keep studying the possibility of a tie-up
with Hoya.


Pentax also announced its president Fumio Urano, 63, had stepped
down and board member Takashi Watanuki, 54, would replace him.


Urano took the initiative to push for the merger with Hoya, but
some directors at Pentax were reportedly unhappy with the merger
plan.


Watanuki told a news conference that the board had fired Urano
because "he has caused internal confusion and his management
style has not been open."


But Watanuki said in principle he was not against a business
alliance with Hoya.


"I have never, ever said that I was against a merger," he said.
"We are in a situation where we have to abandon the merger as it
is planned now. But we will continue wide-ranging studies on
business integration under our basic agreement."


Japan's camera industry has been transforming itself in the face
of falling prices and stiff competition, with leading makers
giving up on traditional film cameras in favor of digital models.


The two companies agreed last December to merge their operations
through a share swap, but Hoya said last week that it may offer
to buy Pentax shares instead through a tender offer.


A spokeswoman for Hoya said the optical glass maker had decided
to continue negotiations with Pentax over a possible merger,
including through a tender offer.


Hoya has reportedly proposed a new merger plan under which it
would raise its proposed offer for Pentax by about 20 percent, to
770 yen per share, to secure the support of shareholders.


The two companies, which are both manufacturers of medical
equipment, had said in December they planned to sign a contract
in April and integrate into Hoya Pentax HD Corp as of October 1.

