

McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken said Tuesday they have been
setting up trade unions in subsidiaries in China as an official
probe cleared them of breaking labour laws in the nation's south.


"We have been negotiating with local labour authorities in
Guangdong province since last November on setting up trade unions
in our subsidiaries there," George Gu, spokesman of McDonald's,
told AFP.


He said there has not been a timetable for the forming of the
union branches in the province but quite a few unions have
already been set up in subsidiaries in places like Beijing,
Shanghai and the eastern province of Jiangsu.


The fastfood giant will allow branches of the state-controlled
All-China Federation of Trade Unions, which urged companies
including McDonald's last week to make up wages for part-time
staff in Guangdong who it claimed were underpaid.


Yum! Brands Inc, which owns both Kentucky Fried Chicken and Pizza
Hut, a restaurant alleged to have underpaid its part-time workers
as well, also said in a statement that most of its subsidiaries
have joined the federation.


"The remaining will handle the issue according to the Chinese
regulations," the statement said.


Both of the fastfood chains attracted widespread attention over
the alleged practice of paying part-time workers in Guangdong's
capital Guangzhou up to 40 percent less than the minimum wage
reported by local media last month.


The All-China Federation of Trade Unions called on the companies
last week to set up union branches, claiming that "in enterprises
without trade unions, workers' rights and interests can't be
protected".


However, results of official investigations in Guangdong by local
labour authorities and the All-China Federation of Trade Unions
on Tuesday seemed to have cleared the companies of violating the
nation's labour rules.


The Guangdong labour authority said in a statement that according
to Chinese labour laws, students are not officially regarded as
part of the workforce so that employers are not under any legal
obligation to sign contracts with them.


As the probes also expanded to other regions in the country, the
state-run Shanghai Daily said Tuesday a local labour official has
confirmed McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken were not found
paying staff under the city's minimum wage.

