

With its slogan "Disneyland is too far," Beijing's Shijingshan
Amusement Park features a replica of Cinderella's Castle, staff
dressed like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and other Disney
images.


None of this is authorised by Disney but that has not stopped the
state-owned park from creating its own counterfeit version of the
Magic Kingdom in a brazen example of the sort of open and
widespread copyright piracy that has Washington fuming.


The United States announced on Monday it would file a case at the
World Trade Organisation over "rampant" copyright piracy in
China, a practice which US companies say deprives them of
billions of dollars each year.


But 31-year-old housewife Zhang Li betrays a typical Chinese
attitude on the issue while chasing her young son around the
park.


"I don't understand why that is such a big problem. Shouldn't
others be able to use those characters besides (Disney)?" she
asks.


Her view is common in a country where lax societal and law
enforcement attitudes toward copyright protection has seen the
counterfeit goods industry become a key part of the national
economy.


A US Congressional panel says China's own data suggests such
goods account for 15 to 20 percent of goods made in the country.


Such numbers seem hard to dispute in Beijing, where one can spend
a morning at an imitation Disney amusement park, have lunch at a
KFC knock-off, shop for fake foreign-brand fashions in the
afternoon and relax at night with a DVD of a Hollywood film that
is still in the theatres in the United States.


"It's part of living in China," Canadian businessman Brian Dugood
says while browsing fake Armani jackets at the Yashow Clothing
Market, one of several multi-story bazaars in Beijing where a
range of counterfeit brands are allowed to be sold openly to
Chinese and foreigners alike by pushy merchants.


"Why buy the original when you can get a pretty good copy at one-
tenth the price?"


A few stalls away, a merchant who would only give her surname as
Luo, sells a pair of fake Puma athletic shoes to a Russian
tourist, waving her hand dismissively at the suggestion that the
market or her suppliers could one day be shut down.


"Impossible," she says, after carefully scrutinising a pair of
100 yuan (13 dollars) bills to make sure she has not herself been
passed a fake.


"We have heard that kind of thing many times before and I guess
there could be some pressure but our suppliers know how to get
around it."


The US case could result in retaliatory trade measures on China
but those may be easier to overcome than the task China faces in
changing attitudes in a country where most consumers have little
hope of affording legitimate DVDs and designer clothing, said
Zhang Zhifeng, a member of the state-sponsored China Intellectual
Property Society.


"There's a lack of consciousness of IPR (International Property
Rights) in China. People don't really feel that the use of
pirated goods is bad," he said.


Moreover, China's stability-conscious government has little
incentive to crack down forcefully on a key economic sector, he
said.


"If they increase IPR protections, this has no benefit to China,
only to foreign copyright-holders. If they go and protect these,
then China's own IPR sector will not be allowed to develop and
become competitive," he said.


Either way, the case will have a "big impact" on the two
countries' trade relations, he said.


Lei Danni, who runs a small shop selling fake DVD and compact
discs, brushes off accusations by American companies that his
business hurts sales of legitimately- produced software.


"We aren't stealing from anyone. Most of my customers say they
wouldn't buy the real thing anyway because its too expensive. So
there is no connection."

