

India, the United States and other key trading players assemble
here on Wednesday in an attempt to salvage global trade talks
aimed at lifting millions out of poverty.


But hopes are slim that any breakthrough will emerge from the
negotiations gathering representatives from the group of
influential trading powers -- the European Union, the United
States, Brazil and India, analysts said.


The most that can be hoped "is for people to come on the same
page and agree there is a need to move forward," said T.S.
Vishwanath, head of international trade policy at the
Confederation of Indian Industry.


The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is seeking to conjure up
agreement in the Doha Round of talks before the end of June when
the fast track trade negotiating powers of US President George
Bush are set to expire.


"If we are to use the remaining window of opportunity open to us,
we need to intensify and accelerate the process of negotiation,"
EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson said ahead of the
gathering.


"If we fail, Doha's prospects for this year will be lost," he
warned.


The ministers will focus on the knotty issues of agriculture
subsidies and tariffs in bilateral meetings Wednesday and will
gather for four-way talks on Thursday.


The sessions will be attended by Indian Commerce Minister Kamal
Nath, US trade representative Susan Schwab and Brazilian foreign
minister Celso Amorim.


If a breakthrough can be achieved by June, a conclusion to the
Doha talks, called a once-in-a-generation chance to help bring
millions out of poverty, could be reached in about eight months,
WTO officials say.


Otherwise the Doha round, launched in the Qatari capital Doha in
2001, risks years of delay.


"There doesn't seem to be any willingness to compromise so in
that kind of situation, it's difficult to expect any favourable
outcome," said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, an Indian economic think-tank.


India and Brazil have emerged as leaders in the developing
world's challenge to the wealthy nations to curtail generous farm
subsidies.


The deadlock over attempts to cut down subsidies and import
tariffs on farm products is regarded as the key stumbling block
to expanding free and fair trade, which also covers industrial
goods and services.


India's Nath has said there is "no commitment by India on the
deadline" and has said he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal."


"We are hoping for movement but we need to see how much much
other countries are willing to meet the needs of the developing
nations," an Indian government spokesman told AFP.


The talks ground to a halt last July but all sides stress they
are still committed to a successful outcome.


Developing nations are being pressed to open their markets wider
to industrial goods and services while the developed countries
are supposed to cut farm support and allow in more agricultural
goods in return.


India and other developing nations fear that their fledgling
industries will be overwhelmed if their markets are forced open
to much more advanced countries.


At the same time, they are concerned to protect the livelihoods
of their huge farming populations. Up to 80 percent of the
workforces in developing nations depend on agriculture.


An agreement among the world's two biggest trading powers, the
United States and EU, and the two leading developing nations
India and Brazil, is seen as vital to hopes of brokering a
compromise among the WTO's 150 members this year.

