

In-form Bolton need to keep up the quality of their performances
in the next three matches if they want to keep on course for
European qualification, manager Sam Allardyce said.


A win against Arsenal on Saturday in the Emirates Stadium would
mean Bolton would leapfrog the Gunners into fourth spot, the last
berth for Champions League qualification. Evidence from past
results does not augur well for them.


You have to go back to 1962 - 11 games overall - for the last
time Bolton won a league match against the north Londoners.


It is a statistic Allardyce cannot see changing, even though
their last three visits to Arsenal have ended in draws.


"Our next three games are particularly difficult," said Allardyce
as he assessed his side's European hopes, with a home match with
Reading and trip to Chelsea to follow the clash with Arsenal.


"We have to keep our form and try to reproduce the performances
we have done in the past at Arsenal, without thinking we are
going to win it.


"We probably won't because only West Ham have won there (the
Emirates Stadium), and they were very fortuitous with that. It
was probably a one-off. We can get a result, we've proven that in
the past.


"But every player has to commit like they did against Everton and
keep their organisation, shape, and find the quality of finishing
like we have seen in the last three matches."


The UEFA Cup still appears the more realistic destination for the
club, with seventh-placed Tottenham now six points adrift, albeit
with a game in hand.


Allardyce knows his side must not falter now, given how they have
performed for the majority of the season.


"Our destiny has been in our own hands all season," insisted
Allardyce. "It would be a travesty to let it slip from our grasp
now after spending 80 percent of the season in the top six.


"We've never been lower than eighth throughout, which shows a
fantastic, consistent level of performance. Whereas in the past
we've come in with a late run, this year we have maintained it
from the start."


Everton cannot be totally dismissed from the fourth-place battle
if Bolton do cause an upset.


Toffees boss David Moyes will certainly be keeping an interested
eye on the result and said: "If Bolton do beat Arsenal then it
would tighten things up and be `game on'.


"Certainly that would be the case for them, but I don't know
about us because we would still have to catch Bolton.


"It would be a surprise if they win because most people,
including me, thought the top four would be the top four. But if
Bolton get something down there then it would open things up."

