

German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck was under fire Tuesday
for preferring to go on holiday with his family rather than
attend a meeting of G7 (Group of Seven) finance ministers in
Washington this weekend.


Steinbrueck will be with his family in Namibia when finance
ministers of the world's seven richest nations meet on Friday
ahead of the annual IMF/World Bank meeting in the US capital at
the weekend, the finance ministry said,  confirming press
reports.


Steinbrueck will be represented instead by his number two in the
finance ministry, Thomas Mirow, the ministry said.


Critics said his refusal to go back on holiday plans with his
family was a slight to his fellow finance ministers from Britain,
Canada, France, Italy, Japan and the US, who will all be in
Washington.


It was also seen as reflecting badly on Germany, which currently
holds the presidency of the G8 (Group of Eight) and the European
Union.


"Such timetabling problems should not arise at a time when
Germany holds both the G8 and EU presidencies," said the deputy
parliamentary whip of the conservative CDU party, Michael
Meister, in an interview with the daily Die Welt.


The finance expert for the environmentalist Green party,
Christine Scheel, was also critical.


"The government claims to attach a great deal of importance to
the two presidencies. One should therefore expect that a minister
turn up to the meetings," she said.


Steinbrueck's absence could also undermine Germany's hopes of
securing a common line among the world's wealthiest countries on
the controversial topic of increased transparency among hedge
funds, a topic that Berlin has put at the top of its G8 agenda.


A ministry spokesman also confirmed that Steinbrueck has refused
to take over the chair of the IMF's International Monetary and
Finance Committee (IMFC), the fund's steering committee currently
headed by Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown.


Brown and the other G7 finance ministers had asked Steinbrueck to
take the chair should Brown become Britain's new Prime Minister.


But Steinbrueck has refused, arguing that he already had too much
work at home in Germany, the weekly newsmagazine Der Spiegel
said.

