

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao held talks Tuesday with South Korean
leaders focused on strengthening economic links, including a
possible free trade pact and ending the North Korean nuclear
impasse.


Wen, whose country fought with the North against the South in the
1950-53 Korean War, praised an "unprecedented" improvement in
relations since Beijing extended diplomatic recognition to Seoul
15 years ago.


The Chinese premier attended the opening ceremony for Korea-China
Friendship Year, marking the anniversary this August of an event
which was a milestone for South Korea but a bitter blow to
China's ally, North Korea.


Since 1992, "the two countries have been expanding exchanges in
political, economic and cultural fields at an unprecedented
pace," Wen told his opposite number, Han Duck-Soo, through an
interpreter.


"I hope bilateral ties will continuously develop."


Han extended a "heartfelt welcome" to Wen, whose country is now
South Korea's largest trading partner. Total trade reached 130
billion dollars last year, according to Chinese figures.


After the United States and South Korea signed a free trade
agreement (FTA), Wen called last week for a similar pact between
Beijing and Seoul.


"China and South Korea should come up with a win-win FTA (free
trade agreement) proposal at an early date so as to pave the way
for the FTA," he said at the time.


Wen and President Roh Moo-Hyun later discussed the issue, along
with strengthening practical economic cooperation and joint
inroads into third- country markets, a presidential official
said.


"Regarding the North Korean nuclear problem, the two leaders
discussed China's constructive role, Seoul-Beijing coordination
and a future vision for Northeast Asia," said the official quoted
by Yonhap news agency.


The two countries want to see progress in six-nation talks on
scrapping North Korea's nuclear weapons, which are stalled by a
banking dispute. Each provides crucial economic support to the
North.


China since 2003 has hosted the talks grouping the two Koreas,
the United States, Russia and Japan. In a February 13 deal, the
North agreed to give up its nuclear programme in exchange for
economic aid and diplomatic benefits.


But it refuses to take the first step, scheduled for completion
by April 14, until it receives 25 million dollars in funds frozen
in a Macau bank.


The North Korean accounts were frozen at US instigation in 2005
on suspicion they were linked to money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


The US said Tuesday that Macau authorities would unblock the
funds with Washington's agreement.


US nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill said on arrival in Seoul
the announcement cleared the way for progress on nuclear
disarmament.


Wen and Roh also observed the signing of four treaties on the
protection of migratory birds, cooperation in marine rescue
operations, youth exchanges and the invitation of more Chinese
workers to South Korea.


The two nations have no major disputes apart from a row over
history.


There was uproar in South Korea last year when the state-funded
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences published reports arguing that
Korea's ancient Balhae kingdom (699-926 AD) was a vassal state of
China.


Wen is accompanied by Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing and Commerce
Minister Bo Xilai, among other officials. He will meet party
leaders in parliament Wednesday before starting a three-day visit
to Japan.

