

Iran on Tuesday shrugged off Western concerns over the
announcement it can now enrich uranium on an "industrial scale",
saying it still plans to ramp up the contested atomic drive even
further.


The head of Iran's atomic energy organisation reaffirmed Iran's
ultimate aim of installing 50,000 centrifuges to enrich uranium
at the Natanz nuclear plant, a figure that would mark a colossal
step up from its current capacities.


"The objective of the Islamic Republic of Iran is not just the
installation of 3,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant but we are
doing everything to install 50,000 centrifuges," said Gholam Reza
Aghazadeh.


"We have entered into the industrial phase and the installation
of machines will continue until we reach 50,000 centrifuges," he
added, according to the state- run IRNA agency.


In a grand ceremony at its Natanz uranium enrichment plant in
central Iran on Monday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced
that the country was now able to enrich uranium on an industrial
scale.


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy.


However Ahmadinejad did not give figures on how far the Iranian
nuclear programme has advanced and Iran's progress towards its
medium term goal of installing 3,000 centrifuges was unclear.


Nonetheless the United States, Iran's arch enemy which accuses it
of seeking nuclear weapon and has not ruled out a military attack
on the Islamic republic, lost little time in voicing its worries.


"We are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they
entered an 'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


A British Foreign Office spokesman echoed its ally's stance,
describing Ahmadinejad's announcement as a "further breach" of UN
resolutions while the European Union renewed its calls for Iran
to suspend enrichment.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon said: "It is very important for any member
country to fully comply with Security Council resolutions. I urge
the Iranian government to do so."


A team of inspectors from the UN's atomic watchdog meanwhile
arrived in Iran on a routine pre-planned week-long visit that
will see them visit the Natanz nuclear plant, the Fars news
agency reported.


The increased tensions come just days after a potentially
explosive crisis with London was defused when Tehran announced it
had released 15 British sailors arrested on accusations of
trespassing in its waters.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


"The suspension of enrichment is not acceptable either as a
precondition to negotiations or as a result of such talks,"
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told reporters.


"We are ready for dialogue (with world powers) if they have
something new to say. The other party must accept the new
reality," he added.


Parliament speaker Gholam Ali Hadad Adel indicated that even the
threat of further UN sanctions would not deter Iran from its
nuclear drive.


"When the Iranian people master a science, they cannot be
deprived of this by sanctions," he said, according to IRNA.


"If the world wants to wait for the trust of the United States,
this could take 100 years. We are no longer in the colonialist
19th century and Iran of today is not the same as Iran before the
Islamic revolution."


Aghazadeh meanwhile explained Tehran's reluctance to give any
figures over the progress of its nuclear programme by saying it
did not want to create "ambiguities".


"I did not want people to say that Iran has finished installing
3,000 centrifuges and everything has been completed now," he
explained.

