

Japan and China must set aside their political differences and
forge closer economic ties for the sake of the whole of East
Asia, the head of the Asian Development Bank said Tuesday.


"Cooperation and collaboration between the two biggest economies
in East Asia are really crucial for East Asia-wide economic
cooperation and integration," ADB president Haruhiko Kuroda told
reporters on a visit to Japan.


Japan and China hope to agree on a framework for "high-level
economic dialogue" during Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's four-day
visit to Japan starting on Wednesday, according to a Japanese
foreign ministry official.


But the official said it was too early to say whether a possible
free-trade agreement between the two Asian giants would be up for
discussion.


Wen last week called for a free trade deal between China and
South Korea after Seoul inked a landmark agreement with the
United States that has ramped up pressure on other Asian nations
to forge closer trade ties.


"Even for many East Asian economies, this (the US-South Korea
deal) could make a big impact on their trade. I'm quite sure that
regional, global FTAs would be enhanced, encouraged by the new
movement," Kuroda said.


The ADB has previously warned about the dangers of a confusing
series of overlapping bilateral free trade deals but Kuroda said
that World Trade Organisation global trade talks and individual
pacts could be complementary.


"Making Asia's regional trade agreements a stepping stone for
global integration is critically important given that there are
uncertainties in the outcome of global trade talks," Kuroda said.


"This requires consolidation of various FTAs in Asia into a
region-wide agreement as a means of expanding market access and
reducing the noodle bowl effect," he added.


For East Asia alone, 109 FTAs have been either signed or are
under negotiation, Kuroda noted.


The ADB holds its annual meeting next month in Kyoto in western
Japan with the environment high on the agenda.


"Asia's rapid growth has come at a large environmental cost,
leaving an unfortunate legacy of polluted cities, degraded
forests and farmlands, reduced biodiversity and other problems
that must be resolved for growth to be sustainable," Kuroda
warned.


"Moreover, these problems are likely to worsen if Asia does not
move to a more sustainable course in terms of energy production
and use," he added.

