

World oil prices climbed slightly on Tuesday after plunging a day
earlier on profit-taking, as key crude producer Iran again tested
Western nerves, analysts said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 20
cents to 66.79 dollars per barrel in London electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 39 cents to 61.90 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


New York crude had dived 2.77 dollars and Brent shed 1.28 dollars
on Monday, as investors banked profits in light Easter trade.


However, they rebounded Tuesday.


"Crude oil futures were higher as the market recovered on news
that Iran is stepping up its nuclear enrichment programme despite
UN sanctions and calls from the West not to do so," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


"The release of 15 UK military personnel last week had helped to
calm tensions between the West and Iran, but the Iranian
announcement yesterday (Monday) that it had increased the number
of centrifuges it is using in order to make nuclear material on
an industrial scale has alarmed the market."


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
shrugged off Western concerns over the announcement it can now
enrich uranium on an "industrial scale", saying it still plans to
ramp up the contested atomic drive even further.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy, while the United States accuses it of seeking a nuclear
weapon and has not ruled out a military attack on the Islamic
republic.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran may disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder.


The increased tensions come just days after a potentially
explosive crisis with London was defused when Tehran announced it
had released 15 British sailors arrested on accusations of
trespassing in its waters.


Elsewhere on Tuesday, the market revisited concerns over tight US
gasoline (petrol) supplies, dealers said.


US gasoline reserves, which are being closely watched ahead of
the American driving season, fell five million barrels to 205.2
million in the week to March 30, against a forecast drawdown of
300,000 barrels.


The sharper-than-expected fall is heightening concerns ahead of
the US summer when many Americans take to the road on vacation.


"The size of the US gasoline stocks are looking increasingly
tight," said Gerard Burg, an analyst with National Australia
Bank.

