

The British government said Tuesday it will urge Internet
providers to block or remove mobile telephone videos showing
pupils or teachers being bullied.


Education Secretary Alan Johnson will give a speech later Tuesday
in Belfast telling Internet companies that "they have a social
responsibility and moral obligation to act," his ministry said.


A British teachers' union praised the decision after having
pressed the government to protect members against pupils taking
inappropriate videos of them with their mobile telephone cameras
and posting them on the Internet.


Johnson will also tell teachers that they will have more powers
to discipline pupils and confiscate mobile phones and other
devices from anyone using them to disrupt lessons.


Johnson will announce his two-pronged approach during a speech to
the annual conference of The National Association of
Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT), Britain's largest
teaching union.


"These are big companies we are talking about: they have a social
responsibility and moral obligation to act," Johnson will say
according to extracts of his speech released by the education
ministry.


"Without the online approval which appeals to the innate
insecurities of the bully, such sinister activities would have
much less attraction," Johnson will say.


"I am therefore calling on the providers of these sites to take
firmer action to block or remove offensive school videos, in the
same way that they have commendably cut pornographic content,"
according to the speech.


"By removing the platform, we'll blunt the appeal."


Mary Bousted, general secretary of the Association of Teachers
and Lecturers (ATL) union, praised the "quick response" to
demands at its conference last week for the government to take
"all reasonable steps" to stop the growing problem of cyber-
bullying.


ATL delegates heard how pupils had used mobile phones to try
taking pictures up teachers' skirts. They also heard that some
teachers had their trousers pulled down in class as students
filmed the incident on their phones.

