

India, the United States and other main trading powers assemble
here Wednesday to try to salvage global trade talks aimed at
lifting millions out of poverty.


But hopes are slim a breakthrough will emerge from the
discussions among the G-4 group -- the European Union, the United
States, Brazil and India -- regarded as the main players,
analysts said.


The meeting will mark the first time trade ministers of the G-4
nations have met since the Doha Round of world trade talks
collapsed last July when the United States refused to give more
ground in cutting generous farm subsidies.


The most that can be hoped for "is for people to come on the same
page and agree there is a need to move forward," said T.S.
Vishwanath, head of international trade policy at the
Confederation of Indian Industry.


The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is seeking to conjure up
agreement in the Doha Round before the end of June when the fast
track trade negotiating powers of US President George Bush are
set to expire.


"We need to intensify and accelerate the process of negotiation,"
EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson said before the gathering.


"If we fail, Doha's prospects for this year will be lost," he
warned.


An agreement between the world's two biggest trading powers, the
United States and EU, and the two leading developing nations
India and Brazil, is seen as vital to hopes of brokering a
compromise among the WTO's 150 members this year.


Developing nations are pushing the United States and other
wealthy nations to significantly cut farm subsidies, while poorer
countries are being pressed to allow more access to their
markets.


The ministers will hold bilateral meetings Wednesday before
formal four-way talks on Thursday at which they will discuss
steps needed to "enable a successful conclusion of the Doha
Round," Indian Commerce ministry spokeswoman Shipra Biswas said.


The sessions will be attended by Indian Commerce Minister Kamal
Nath, US trade representative Susan Schwab and Brazilian Foreign
Minister Celso Amorim. Japan and Australia will also join the
negotiations later on Thursday.


If a breakthrough can be achieved by June, a conclusion to the
Doha talks could be reached in about eight months, WTO officials
say. Otherwise the Doha round, launched in the Qatari capital in
2001 and called a once-in-a-generation chance to help bring
millions out of poverty, risks years of delay.


"There doesn't seem to be any willingness to compromise so in
that kind of situation, it's difficult to expect any favourable
outcome," said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, an Indian economic think-tank.


The deadlock over attempts to cut subsidies and import tariffs on
farm products is regarded as the key stumbling block to expanding
free and fair trade, which also covers industrial goods and
services.


Nath has said there is "no commitment by India on the deadline"
and that he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal."


"We are hoping for movement but we need to see how much other
countries are willing to meet the needs of the developing
nations," an Indian government spokesman told AFP.


Developing nations are being pressed to open their markets wider
to industrial goods and services while the developed countries
are supposed to slash farm support and allow in more agricultural
goods in return.


India and other developing nations fear their fledgling
industries will be overwhelmed if their markets are forced open
to much more advanced countries.


At the same time, they want to preserve their own agricultural
supports to protect the livelihoods of their huge farming
populations. Up to 80 percent of the workforces in developing
nations depend on agriculture.

