

French luxury goods group PPR, owner of Gucci and Yves Saint
Laurent, announced a friendly takeover offer for German group
Puma on Tuesday, valuing the world's third-biggest supplier of
sportsgear at more than 5.0 billion euros (6.7 billion dollars).


Puma shares were higher in late morning trade after the Pinault-
Printemps- Redoute (PPR) retail giant said it had already
purchased a 27.1 percent stake as a precursor to the takeover
offer.


"Following this acquisition (of the stake), PPR intends to launch
a friendly takeover in cash on the remaining outstanding Puma
shares at the price of 330 euros per share," it said in a
statement.


A takeover by PPR would complete the transformation of the former
family-run German company, which has become one of the world's
leading sports brands and principle rival to fellow German group
Adidas and US-based Nike.


The company was on the verge of filing for backruptcy in the
1990s, but reported sales of 2.4 billion euros last year and is
now a sponsor of some of the world's biggest sports stars.


PPR, controlled by French tycoon Francois-Henri Pinault, said it
had agreed to buy the 27.1-percent stake from Mayfair
Beteiligungsfondsgesellschaft, an investment vehicle for the Herz
family


In late morning trade, shares in MDAX-listed Puma rose 29.52
euros, or 9.39 percent higher to 343.77 euros, leading the MDAX
index which had climbed 1.11 percent at 10,589.04.


With a total 17.234 million shares in issue, the offer from PPR
valued Puma at 5.7 billion euros. PPR put the total offer price
at 5.3 billion euros.


PPR is by far the bigger group of the two, with annual sales of
17.9 billion euros and a workforce of 78,000.


In March, PPR said it was holding more than a billion euros in
cash, providing it with a well-stocked warchest if the retailer
decided to bid for another group.


The takeover, which will be totally financed by debt "will have a
positive financial impact for PPR in both terms of acceleration
of growth of its turnover and, improved profitability and
increase its net profit per share," PPR said in a statement.


In its own statement, Puma welcomed the offer, which it said gave
it the support of "a financially strong and leading international
company".


Puma said it would also "benefit from PPR's global positioning,
strong portfolio of premium brands and expertise in the retail
business."


The Puma management board "is convinced that PPR, as one of the
world's top fashion and retail companies, will be the perfect
partner for us," it said.


Puma said PPR's offer was "in the best interests of the company
and that the announced offer price per share of 330 euros is
fair."


However dealers said the retail giant might have to push its
price higher.


"We expect, however, that market participants will push for a
final offer price above 330 euros per share. This should push the
share price up above the current offer," the Frankfurt based
dealer said.


Analysts at Merrill Lynch also agreed that PPR will likely have
to raise its offer, saying that the currently discussed 5.69
billion euro offer would offer only a small premium compared to
Puma's peer group.


PPR said that no job cuts were planned as part of the takeover.


"In the context of the planned transaction there will be no
changes with regard to staffing," said PPR chief executive
Pinault.

