

Violators of Thailand's new foreign investment law could face up
to five years in prison, under a revised version of the proposed
amendments approved by the cabinet Tuesday.


The changes, first proposed in January, would limit foreigners to
holding no more than 49 percent of the shares or voting rights in
Thai companies.


The revised version raised the fine for violations five-fold to
up to five million baht (154,000 dollars) and also increased
possible jail time from three to five years in prison, according
to Commerce Minister Krirk-Krai Jirapaet.


Companies would also have three years rather than two to adjust
to the new regime, he added.


"The cabinet agreed to raise the penalty for violations both in
fines and imprisonment. Those who violate the law would face five
years in prison and a fine of five times the amount in the
earlier draft," he added.


"We added the criminal penalty in order to promote good corporate
governance in the business sector," Krirk-Krai said, adding the
draft would be submitted to parliament before Friday.


"I personally believe that the amendment will not affect foreign
investment in Thailand or investor confidence because direct
investment usually focuses on the rate of return and the
investment opportunity," he said.


The latest draft still needs approval from the military-installed
parliament before taking effect.


But the Joint Foreign Chamber of Commerce slammed the government
for pushing ahead with the amendments, saying it would "make
investment in Thailand more difficult and also make Thailand's
economic future more difficult."


"These proposals have led to negative reactions from existing and
prospective foreign investors, have created confusion and
negativity toward the Thai government's view of (foreign direct
investment) and Thailand's intentions of liberalising its
economy," it said in a statement.


Under the existing system, foreign companies frequently get
around foreign ownership limits by giving a majority of shares to
a Thai proxy, while keeping most of the voting rights. The
amendments would end such arrangements.


The bill does allow for broad exemptions, including the service
sector, which is governed by a separate law. Companies operating
under specific legal arrangements, such as automakers, would also
be exempt.


Friedrich Hamburger, head of the delegation of the European
Commission, said investors have been disappointed by Thailand's
moves to put more restrictions on businesses.


"The changes would have more impacts on new investors, who will
possibly wait and see how the rules take effect by this
government or the next government and put off their investments
until then," he told AFP.


He also warned that the new limits on voting rights would be in
violation of Thailand's World Trade Organisation commitments.


"Given the recent policy changes, European investors have started
looking for other potential investment locations apart from
Thailand," he said.


Suan Teck Kin, a regional economist at United Overseas Bank in
Singapore, said the government wanted to be clear that it was
closing the loopholes in its investment laws.


"But the tough penalty will prompt foreign businesses to invest
in more investor-friendly nations such as Malaysia and Vietnam,"
he said.


The World Bank last week also warned about the impact of the
amendments and suggested that the rules be liberalised.

