

Serbia's war crimes court gives its verdict Tuesday in the
landmark trial of five members of the "Scorpions" paramilitary
unit charged with involvement in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre.


The five former militiamen were charged after the release of a
video showing six Muslim men and boys from Srebrenica being shot
dead in the Bosnian village of Trnovo in July 1995.


The trial is the first in Serbia concerning the massacre of about
8,000 Muslims in Bosnia's wartime UN-protected enclave of
Srebrenica, considered the single worst atrocity in Europe since
World War II.


The case emerged after video footage of the shootings was shown
in June 2005 during the war crimes trial of late Yugoslav
president Slobodan Milosevic before the UN tribunal in The Hague.


The images images shocked many Serbs who had questioned whether
the Srebrenica massacre had really taken place.


Charged with the murders were Scorpions commander Slobodan Medic,
and two other unit members, Pera Petrasevic and Branislav Medic.
The others, Aleksandar Medic and Aleksandar Vukov, were accused
of being accomplices.


The remains of five of the Trnovo murder victims were exhumed
from a grave in April 1999.


Three of them were identified by DNA analysis as Safet Fejzic,
Azmir Alispahic, and Sidik Salkic. The others were later named as
Smail Ibrahimovic, Jusa Delic and Dino Salihovic.


The only accused to have confessed to the videotaped shootings
was Petrasevic.


Appearing before Serbia's special war crimes court in February
2006, Petrasevic confirmed the videotape was authentic and that
Slobodan Medic had ordered the "executions".


Medic had "told us they were soldiers, imprisoned Muslims in
civilian clothes," he said at the time.


Medic pleaded not guilty and denied any knowledge of the crime
when he appeared in court on the opening day of the trial in
December 2005.


He said the first time he had seen the video was when it was
broadcast on Serbian national television.


However he admitted the Scorpions were in Trnovo at the time,
adding he would have shot the member of the unit responsible like
a "rabbit" if he had known the incident was being filmed.


Prosecutors are seeking jail terms of up to 40 years, the maximum
sentence available under Serbia's legal system where the death
penalty was abolished in 2001.


About 30 relatives of the victims have travelled from Bosnia to
Belgrade to hear the verdict, which is due to be read out from
1000 GMT.


Serbia's special war crimes court was established in 2003. It
deals with lesser crimes referred to Serbia by the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) which is based
in The Hague.

