

A black-veiled woman strapped with explosives blew herself up
outside a police station in Iraq on Tuesday, killing 16 people,
many of them looking for jobs in the police force.


The bombing occurred in the restive town of Muqdadiyah, in the
flashpoint province of Diyala which is now considered the second
most dangerous area of Iraq after Baghdad itself.


Police First Lieutenant Mohammed Ahmed said the bomber detonated
her charge amid a group of people at a kiosk opposite a police
station where would-be recruits were buying application forms to
join the US-backed security force.


Another 32 people were wounded in the attack.


Interior ministry spokesman Brigadier General Abdul Karim Khalaf,
who earlier put the death toll at nine, confirmed that the woman
had dressed in the all enveloping traditional black abaya worn by
all women in the area.


Insurgents also killed four more US soldiers and attacked an
American military helicopter in Baghdad, the military reported on
Tuesday.


Two roadside bomb blasts killed three soldiers and wounded
another on Monday while they were patrolling southeastern Baghdad
where a massive Iraqi-US security crackdown has been underway for
nearly two months to quell bloodshed.


The fourth soldier died on Monday while conducting combat
operations in the restive Al-Anbar province, a known hotbed for
Sunni insurgents and Al-Qaeda militants west of Baghdad.


The latest fatalities brought to 32 the US military's losses in
this month alone and to 3,280 since the March 2003 invasion to
topple Saddam Hussein, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


Insurgents also attacked a US military helicopter in Baghdad on
Tuesday.


"We had an incident. A helicopter took small arms fire but
returned safely to the base," military spokeswoman Lieutenant
Colonel Josslyn Aberle told AFP.


"It did not go down. The pilot had control all the time. It
happened somewhere in Baghdad. We are still gathering details."


Since January 20, at least 10 US helicopters -- including two
operated by private security firms -- have crashed in Iraq, most
of them to hostile fire.


Facing its toughest time in Iraq, the US military is under
pressure from sustained attacks by insurgents and militias, and
also faces rising calls for troops to withdraw, both back home
and in Iraq itself.


On Monday, the military witnessed the strongest protest yet
against its four- year presence in Iraq when a massive Shiite
rally in the holy city of Najaf called for US troops to leave.


The movement of radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, which organised
the rally, cited television footage, pictures and the number of
vehicles that brought the protestors to Najaf to claim nearly a
million people attended the protest.


Local police spokesman Brigadier General Ali Jeriu said on
Tuesday that tens of thousands of people attended the
demonstration, while US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
Scott Bleichwehl gave a much lower figure of 15,000.


Sadr, known for his strong anti-American stance, called rally to
mark the fourth anniversary of the fall of Baghdad to US invading
forces and the ouster of Saddam Hussein's regime, in an attempt
to garner public support to demand the withdrawal of US-led
troops.


Large crowds of men, women and children holding Iraqi flags and
anti-US banners were heard shouting "No, No to America! Yes, Yes
to Freedom!"


Many people draped in Iraqi flags set the Stars and Stripes
ablaze and some stamped on US and Israeli flags painted on the
ground with their shoes, a major insult in Arab culture.


But Sadr disappointed followers by not showing up, adding fuel to
speculation he is not in Iraq, but perhaps in Iran as claimed by
the US military.


The cleric went underground more than two months ago after the
launch of the Baghdad security crackdown which targets his
militiamen accused of spearheading the killings of Sunni Arabs.

