

Aid workers have found "apocalyptic" scenes in two villages in
Chad where up to 400 people may have died following attacks
blamed on Sudan's Janjaweed militia, the UN refugee agency said
Tuesday.


"Estimates of the number of dead have increased substantially and
now range between 200 and 400," said Ron Redmond, a spokesman for
the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)


"On Sunday, an inter-agency assessment mission led by UNHCR to
Tiero and Morina found a situation that one of our staff
described as 'apocalyptic'," he told journalists.


A Chadian official said last week that the death toll in the
attacks in the southeast of the country on March 31 had risen to
about 100.


Decomposing bodies were still being found in the area, including
those of a 70 -year-old man and a 30-year-old father of eight,
Redmond said.


The mission found that "hundreds upon hundreds" of homes had been
burnt to the ground and some were still smouldering, while the
area was beset by the stench of rotting animal carcasses.


Most of the dead were buried where their bodies were found,
sometimes in common graves.


"We may never know the exact number of deaths," Redmond said.


"Many who survived the initial attack -- particularly those most
vulnerable such as the elderly and young children -- died in
subsequent days from exhaustion and dehydration, often while
fleeing," he explained.


The incidents occurred after two members of an Arab tribe were
slain by a local militia composed of members of the African Dadjo
tribe.


Racial tensions between local Africans and the descendants of
Arab settlers who fanned out across Africa centuries ago have
often led to bloodletting, especially in Sudan which was the
scene of Africa's longest-running civil war.


The Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militia and the Sudanese military
have been accused of carrying out mass killings during attacks on
villages in Darfur, which borders Chad, forcing at least two
million people to flee their homes since 2003.

