

Madonna, Genesis and the Red Hot Chili Peppers will be among
stars performing at the London leg of Al Gore's worldwide anti-
global warming concerts in July, it was announced Tuesday.


The Live Earth concerts, the brainchild of former US vice-
president turned environmental campaigner Gore, will also take
place in Shanghai, Johannesburg, Sydney, Tokyo, Rio de Janiero
and the United States.


In London Duran Duran, the Foo Fighters, the Black Eyed Peas,
Keane, Snow Patrol, Bloc Party and the Beastie Boys will join
them at the 90,000-seater new Wembley Stadium on July 7.


Razorlight, Corinne Bailey Rae, Damien Rice, David Gray, James
Blunt, John Legend and Paolo Nutini are among the other acts who
will take the stage.


"This monster line-up will ensure Live Earth meets our goal of
bringing together people from around the world to combat the
climate crisis," said Live Earth founder Kevin Wall.


"Live Earth will not only span all seven continents, but the
musicians who have answered our call span multiple genres and
generations."


More than 100 acts will take part around the world in the 24-hour
event and organisers hope to reach more than two billion people
on television, radio and the Internet.


Organisers hope the concerts will do for climate change awareness
what the 1985 Live Aid concerts did for raising awareness of
starvation in Ethiopia.


"By attracting an audience of billions we hope Live Earth will
launch a global campaign giving a critical mass of people around
the world the tools they need to help solve the climate crisis,"
Gore said.


"But ultimately, corporations and governments must become global
leaders taking decisive action to stop global warming."


Tickets for the London gig will cost 55 pounds (108 dollars, 81
euros) and proceeds go towards a foundation to combat climate
change.


Wall said other Live Earth gigs would take place at Sydney's
Aussie Stadium, Tokyo Stadium, the steps of the Oriental Pearl
Tower in Shanghai, Johannesburg's Cradle of Human Kind and Rio de
Janeiro's Copacabana beach.


Details of the US concert were to be announced later Tuesday.


Gore is the author of a bestselling book on global warming "An
Inconvenient Truth," which was made into the blockbuster
documentary which won a pair of Oscars in February.

