

Negotiators are close to resolving a banking dispute blocking a
disarmament accord on North Korea, days ahead of a deadline for
Pyongyang to start shutting down its nuclear programme, a top US
official said Tuesday.


"I hope we'll be able to succeed on that in the next couple of
days," chief US nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill told
reporters as he arrived in South Korea from a visit to Japan.


In the first phase of a six-country agreement, the North had
agreed to shut down a nuclear reactor by this Saturday in
exchange for badly needed fuel oil. But it has refused to budge
until it receives 25 million dollars in funds that had been
frozen overseas under US sanctions.


"Obviously every day this banking matter holds us up, and it
makes it more difficult to meet the precise deadline," Hill said
in Tokyo.


But in Seoul he sounded more optimistic.


"Let's see, we've got a few more days," Hill said. "Let's see how
we do in the next couple of days. Obviously it is a very
important week."


The United States has agreed to unblock the cash at a Macau bank
which was blacklisted amid allegations that North Korea was
engaged in money-laundering and counterfeiting.


But US authorities have struggled to find a way to get the assets
back to Pyongyang, with other banks fearing the money would sully
their reputations.


In a statement Tuesday, the US Treasury said Macau authorities
were also prepared to unblock the accounts and Washington would
support such a move. It was not immediately clear if the
statement paves the way for the cash finally to be repaid.


But Hill warned that such situations could occur again unless the
communist state gives up its nuclear arms.


"As long as the DPRK (North Korea) is engaged in nuclear weapons
production, they are going to find their external accounts very
much scrutinised," he said.


"They are going to find many international financial institutions
reluctant to take on the issue."


The nuclear issue is also on the agenda of US officials visiting
Pyongyang and of Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao in South Korea. South
Korean sources said Beijing's chief nuclear envoy Wu Dawei was
travelling with Wen.


They said he, Hill and Seoul's chief negotiator Chun Yung-Woo
would meet Tuesday night.


In Tokyo, Japanese officials voiced doubt that North Korea would
meet the deadline under the February 13 deal.


"We are getting into a situation where it's extremely difficult
to do it within the 60 days as agreed," Foreign Minister Taro Aso
told parliament.


Meanwhile New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson led a US team
to North Korea, officially to secure the remains of US troops
killed in the Korean War but also discussing the nuclear
showdown.


Richardson, a Democratic presidential candidate, said that he had
"secured assurances" the North would turn over the remains of six
US soldiers.


"This is a very positive gesture on the part of the North Korean
government," Richardson said in a statement.


Hill, who heads to Beijing Thursday, said he would meet in the
South Korean capital with Richardson. He went straight into talks
with his opposite number Chun here.


China said the six-party deal would not fail even if the weekend
deadline is not met.


"We have encountered some difficulties which is very natural
because the six- party talks have never been a smooth process, it
is full of difficulties and twists and turns," said foreign
ministry spokesman Qin Gang.


"But I do not agree that if the initial actions are delayed in
implementation, then the six-party talks will fail or will be
invalid."


Japan has taken the hardest line in the six-nation talks, which
group it with China, the two Koreas, Russia and the United
States, on dismantling the North's nuclear weapons drive.


On Tuesday, it extended sweeping sanctions against North Korea
for another six months to press it to give ground in an
emotionally charged row over its past kidnappings of Japanese
nationals.

