

China and South Korea agreed Tuesday to set up military hotlines
to prevent clashes in the Yellow Sea, as part of efforts to
strengthen security ties between the two nations, officials said.


Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and President Roh Moo-Hyun reached the
deal during talks in Seoul that also focused on forging stronger
economic links, including a possible free trade pact, and ending
the North Korean nuclear impasse.


"Both sides agreed to consolidate cooperation in the fields of
diplomacy and security, and to set up direct communication lines
between their navies and air forces," Roh's office said in a
statement.


The hotlines are aimed at preventing clashes between the two
nations in the Yellow Sea that divides them, South Korean
officials said.


Wen earlier praised an "unprecedented" improvement in relations
since Beijing extended diplomatic recognition to Seoul 15 years
ago.


Chinese troops fought for North Korea during the 1950-53 Korean
War. But Seoul and Beijing have stepped up economic and
diplomatic cooperation since they normalised ties in 1992.


The two leaders also discussed progress in six-nation talks on
scrapping North Korea's nuclear weapons, which are stalled by a
banking dispute. Each provides crucial economic support to the
North.


"The two sides agreed to strengthen cooperation for continued
progress in six- party talks," Roh's office said.


China since 2003 has hosted the talks also grouping the two
Koreas, the United States, Russia and Japan. In a February 13
accord, the North agreed to give up its nuclear programme in
exchange for economic aid and diplomatic benefits.


But it refuses to take the first step, scheduled for completion
by April 14, until it receives 25 million dollars in funds frozen
in a Macau bank.


The North Korean accounts were frozen at US instigation in 2005
on suspicion they were linked to money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


The US said Tuesday that Macau authorities will unblock the funds
with Washington's agreement. US nuclear negotiator Christopher
Hill said on arrival in Seoul the announcement clears the way for
progress on nuclear disarmament.


The Chinese premier earlier attended the opening ceremony for
Korea-China Friendship Year, marking the anniversary this August
of an event which was a milestone for South Korea but a bitter
blow to China's ally North Korea.


Since 1992, "the two countries have been expanding exchanges in
political, economic and cultural fields at an unprecedented
pace," Wen told his opposite number Han Duck-Soo through an
interpreter.


Han extended a "heartfelt welcome" to Wen, whose country is now
South Korea's largest trading partner. Total trade reached 130
billion dollars last year, according to Chinese figures.


After the United States and South Korea signed a free trade
agreement, Wen called last week for a similar pact between
Beijing and Seoul.


Wen and Roh discussed the issue Tuesday, along with strengthening
practical economic cooperation and joint inroads into third-
country markets, a presidential official said.


They also observed the signing of four treaties on the protection
of migratory birds, cooperation in marine rescue operations,
youth exchanges and the invitation of more Chinese workers to
South Korea.


Wen is accompanied by Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing and Commerce
Minister Bo Xilai, among other officials. He will meet party
leaders in parliament Wednesday before starting a three-day visit
to Japan.

