

Britain is moving ahead with plans to test a US-style law giving
parents more information about convicted paedophiles but has made
no final decision, government sources said Tuesday.


The plans aired in the media over the last few days have worried
critics who say such disclosures could spark vigilante-style
justice, drive sex offenders underground and put children in even
greater danger.


Dan Norris, a member of parliament in the governing Labour Party,
said Monday that his Wansdyke constituency in Somerset, southwest
England, was to be the first area in Britain tested when the Home
Office launches it own version of Megan's Law in the United
States.


Parents will be able to ask if offenders live in their street, on
popular school routes or near their playground.


However, a government source who asked not to be named, said the
Home Office, which has been conducting a year-long review, has
taken no final decision on whether a pilot project would go
ahead.


"The Home Office is actually still in discussions with
stakeholders about the possibility of piloting a model ... along
the lines of disclosure and has the support of interested
parties, including MPs," the source said.


The source said an announcement was expected after local
elections in May.


The government has been under pressure for years to tighten
controls on sex offenders following the murder conviction of a
repeat child molester authorities knew was dangerous but could
not contain.


Public frustration boiled over after Roy Whiting was sentenced in
December 2001 to life imprisonment for the kidnap and murder of
eight-year-old Sarah Payne.


She was killed in July 2000, three years after Whiting ended a
jail term for abducting and sexually abusing another young girl.


The event triggered Britain's answer to Megan's Law, which first
came into force after seven-year-old Megan Kanka was raped and
murdered by a convicted paedophile in New Jersey in 1994.


Many US states passed laws requiring communities to be informed
when a convicted sex offender was about to move into the
neighbourhood. In May 1995, President Bill Clinton signed similar
federal legislation, calling it "Megan's Law".

