

The father of a South African swimming champion was preparing
Tuesday to fly to Pakistan to collect the body of his son found
after he was found murdered and then stuffed in a bin bag.


Pakistan police found the body of Kenneth Smith on the outskirts
of the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar on Sunday. Doctors
who carried out the post mortem on the body said they suspected
he had been poisoned.


Smith's father Neville said he wanted to discover the
circumstances behind his son's death and why he was in Peshawar
in the first place.


"I am going to fly to Pakistan on Wednesday to try and get the
truth from police there. I don't have any idea what my lad was
doing there," Neville Smith told the Beeld newspaper.


"I will bring his body back to South Africa, there are no
cremation facilities in Pakistan. It is also only fitting that he
come back to South Africa."


The 26-year-old from South Africa's capital of Pretoria was 10
kilometer open swimming champion for three years running but had
taken time off after injuring his shoulder in December last year.


His family was not aware he was in Pakistan, and thought he had
gone to Dubai to find a job as a swimming coach.


"Kenneth decided to take time off and would have gone to Dubai to
look at the possibility of perhaps getting involved in coaching
swimming," his father said.


The swimmer had arrived in Peshawar, which is close to border
with Afghanistan on January 22, having left South Africa the day
before. His passport was found in his pocket.


His family last heard from him two weeks ago when he sent a text
message to a family member saying he was in Europe.


The cause of Smith's death was unclear, with previous reports
suggesting he had been poisoned while Beeld reported he had been
shot in the back of the head.


South African diplomatic officials were on their way to Pakistan
to verify that the body found was that of a South African.


"We are waiting for officials in Pakistan, we have to verify if
he is a South African national, the investigation has not yet
been concluded and we cannot say with certainty he is a South
African," foreign affairs spokeswoman Nomfanelo Kota told AFP.

