

Asian stocks closed mostly higher on Tuesday with Sydney,
Singapore, Jakarta and Shanghai closing at record levels,
however, gains were capped by a flat performance on Wall Street.


Markets were also playing catch-up in the wake of positive
economic data out of the US late last weak and the Easter holiday
and Chinese Ching Ming festival which resulted public holidays
across the region.


Sydney was the best on the day with a 1.25 percent gain amid
heady takeover speculation while Singapore rose 0.67 percent on
better than expected growth figures and Jakarta was up 0.61
percent.


But a mixed close in New York on Monday coupled with profit
taking on recent sharp gains resulted in Tokyo falling 0.45
percent, Seoul eased 0.13 percent and Taipei and Mumbai closed
flat.


TOKYO: Share prices closed down 0.45 percent as investors locked
in gains a day after the market hit the highest level for almost
six weeks.


Dealers said that a decision by the Bank of Japan to leave its
key interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent had been widely
expected and made little impact on the market.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 79.07 points to 17,664.69. Volume rose
to 1.99 million shares from 1.91 million on Monday.


Investors locked in Monday's gains following a flat performance
on Wall Street, dealers said.


"The market here fell on profit-taking, following the mixed
performance on Wall Street after its holiday," said Hideo
Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


"Also, the market was generally cautious and investors were
hesitant to take large positions ahead of the earnings seasons in
Japan and the US," Mizutani said.


But investors showed appetite for steel and non-ferrous metals
stocks after a rise in prices of metals such as copper, dealers
said.


Nippon Steel rose 22 yen to 806.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.68 percent higher as a fresh
inflow of funds, following a five-day holiday, supported blue
chips and China stocks.


Dealers said sentiment was bolstered by another record finish on
the mainland's A-share markets and strong housing sales in Hong
Kong over the holiday weekend.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 138.16 points at 20,347.87.
Turnover was 55.50 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.1 billion US).


"Some of the excess liquidity which drove the China stock markets
to new highs apparently spilled over and provided much of the
support to the local market today," said Y.K. Chan, a strategist
at Phillip Asset Management.


He said it is not surprising that the mainland markets are
sustaining gains despite the Chinese central bank's decision to
raise the reserve requirements for commercial banks further.


"There are not enough channels in the mainland to absorb excess
liquidity; that's why excess monies have been finding their way
into the stock markets," he said.


Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia Securities Holdings
(CASH), echoed Chan's view.


"So-called 'hot money' was the principal driver of trade today.
Just look at today's heavy volume and the fact that the index
continued to trend higher even if it was already above the 20,000
points level," she said.


HSBC was up 1.60 at 138.70.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.13 percent lower as profit-taking
led by institutions took the market off Monday's record finish.


Dealers said investors were content to consolidate recent gains
ahead of a local central bank meeting on interest rates Thursday
and options expiry.


The market was reassured by Friday's US employment report but
some now want to see details of the last US Federal Reserve
policy meeting to get another lead on the outlook for the US
economy.


The KOSPI index shed 1.90 points at 1,499.16. Volume was 355
million shares worth 2.9 trillion won (3.1 billion dollars).


"The market fared relatively well today only to see a limited
setback," Daewoo Securities research head Hong Seong-Kook said.


"We may see some corrections but the 1,500-point level appears to
be sustainable," he added.


Hyundai Heavy retreated 2,000 won to 214,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed little changed as profit-taking put a
lid on follow- through buying after the market breached the 8,000
points level last week.


Dealers said while there was no shift in general market
sentiment, some investors pocketed profits ahead of corporate
earnings results.


The weighted index closed down 8.17 points at 8,048.39 on
turnover of 113.68 billion Taiwan dollars (3.44 billion US).


Mega International Investment Services Co assistant vice
president Alex Huang said sentiment has improved since the market
hit 8,000 points but that profit- taking emerged ahead of
corporate earnings results.


Some major regional markets had moved lower during morning trade,
triggering a similar effect in the local bourse, he said.


"Fund managers offloaded their holdings in small technology firms
while transport and a few other non-tech industries benefited
from higher product prices," he added.


United Microelectronics Corp closed up 0.10 Taiwan dollars at
19.50.


SHANGHAI: Share prices shrugged off morning losses to rise 1.33
percent for a seventh consecutive record finish as the market
continued to power ahead despite occasional profit-taking.


Dealers said trade was once again very heavy, running at record
levels around 30 billion dollars, with the early reverse seen as
just a modest technical correction as investors continued to pour
into the market.


Sustained fresh fund inflows continue to drive stocks against the
backdrop of a fast growing economy, with the market looking to
corporate results for its immediate lead.


Some dealers cautioned again that there was a risk of a
significant correction, especially once the results season closes
at the end of the month, but for the moment investors seem only
intent on getting into the market, as reflected in the record
turnover.


The Shanghai composite index closed up 45.34 points at 3,444.29.
Turnover hit a record 152.94 billion yuan (19.79 billion US
dollars).


"The record high turnover indicated that buying interest remains
strong despite early morning profit-taking as investors are
confident about corporate profitability for the year," said Wang
Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


Analysts said the market is unlikely to see any major correction,
at least until the end of this month.


"In the near future, the market is expected to maintain its
bullish trend in a slow and steady manner but there might be some
big corrections at the end of this month after most companies
issue their annual and quarterly reports," said Shen Jun, an
analyst at Shangzhenglian Consulting, said.


Baosteel was up 0.44 yuan at 10.99.


SYDNEY: Share prices rose 1.25 percent to another record high
with investors buoyed by merger and acquisition activity as a
rival bidder appeared for retailer Coles.


Dealers said firmer metals prices boosted the resource sector
again while takeover leads -- on retail giant Coles and
construction materials firm Rinker Group -- drove the broader
market.


The SP/ASX 200 closed up 75.9 points at 6,153.0. Turnover was
1.82 billion shares worth 5.75 billion dollars (4.6 billion US).


Coles ended the day up 0.36 dollars at a record 17.33, with the
intraday high of 17.42 also an all-time best, after a private
equity consortium led by US player Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR)
said it was preparing to trump a 19.7 billion dollar offer by
local conglomerate Wesfarmers.


Investors are banking on a bidding war for Coles, with the
nation's largest retailer Woolworths and UK supermarket giant
Tesco reportedly also interested in acquiring at least some of
Coles' businesses.


Woolworths advanced 0.34 to 27.98 and Wesfarmers added 0.02 to
39.14.


US-focused building products group Rinker climbed 0.33 to 18.81
after its board agreed to a revised 15.85 US dollars per share
takeover offer from Mexican cement group Cemex SA for a total of
15.3 billion US dollars.


Rinker had earlier rejected a 13 US dollar offer as too low.


SINGAPORE: Share prices continued their record-breaking run,
hitting a new all- time high after the government said the
economy grew a strong 6.0 percent in the first quarter.


The Straits Times Index rose 22.62 points to 3,422.62 on volume
of 2.57 billion shares valued at 2.16 billion Singapore dollars
(1.43 billion US).


Frasers Securities Research head Najeeb Jarhom said robust first
quarter growth in the gross domestic product (GDP) bodes well for
corporate earnings this year.


"It should not be a surprise if earnings match or even (beat)
last year's 13 percent growth, which could then sustain the STI
to heights of 3,600 points and higher," Jarhom said.


"Further upward adjustments to the official GDP growth forecasts
in the National Day speech and later in the year cannot be ruled
out if the US economy does not slow down abruptly and interest
rates remain benign."


But OCBC Investment Research analyst Carmen Lee was less
optimistic, saying there could be some short-term volatility
depending on whether earnings exceed or fall below expectations.


"With the possibility of some near-term volatility, in part due
to (the earnings) results season and economic releases (in the
US), we would advise clients to take some profits along the way,"
Lee said.


Singapore Telecommunications rose 0.02 to 3.48.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.61 percent higher, with
property and plantation firms leading gains to push the key index
to a 13-year high.


Dealers said lower liners succumbed to profit-taking after
Monday's gains.


The composite index rose 7.98 points to 1,306.34 on turnover of
2.40 billion shares, worth 2.87 billion ringgit (834.3 million
dollars).


"The market has been quite volatile today and we expect the
volatility to last until the end of this week," said Kaladher
Govindan, head of research at TA Securities.


He said the strengthening of the ringgit and the strong
performance of most regional markets are among factors that have
contributed to the local gains over the past few days.


Govindan said the local bourse could stage a correction soon and
investors should watch out for developments in regional markets,
especially in China.


Maybank was up 0.20 at 12.90.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.14 percent higher but the broader
market was kept in check ahead of the central bank's meeting amid
rising hopes for an interest rate cut.


Dealers said trading was thin as domestic investors were absent
from the market due to the upcoming Buddhist New Year holiday,
which begins Friday and runs for five days.


The composite index rose 0.93 points to 689.48 on turnover of
1.15 billion shares worth 6.4 billion baht (183 million dollars).


"The market was virtually flat as investors took a wait-and-see
stance ahead of the BoT (Bank of Thailand) meeting" on Wednesday,
said Chai Chirasevenupraphand, a market strategist at Capital
Nomura Securities.


Investors expected the central bank to cut its key interest rate
to 4.00 percent from current 4.50 percent in a bid to spur the
kingdom's slowing economy.


Changes in Thailand's new foreign investment law that include a
maximum five- year jail term for violators had little impact on
the market, Chai said, adding few domestic investors traded ahead
of the Buddhist New Year holiday.


Thai Airways International increased 0.75 at 46.50.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed up 0.61 percent at a fresh record
high, helped by a rally in miners.


The composite index closed up 11.736 points at 1,925.471 on
volume of 2.41 billion shares worth 2.81 trillion rupiah (308.72
million dollars).


"We have seen strong interest in mining stocks on the back of
rises in metal prices and the Antam stock split news further
strengthened interest in the sector," said Hendra Sunarto, an
analyst with Buana Capital.


Tin miner Timah gained 1,350 rupiah or 10.67 percent to 14,000
while Inco increased 200 to 60,100.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.31 percent higher on follow-through
buying and bargain-hunting among second-liners.


Dealers said momentum was likely to be sustained this week on
expectations of stronger corporate results, after the market
reopened following the Easter break.


The composite index added 10.19 points to 3,304.42. Volume
amounted to 5.3 billion shares worth 4.25 billion pesos (88.54
million dollars).


"There was a good dose of buying in second liners given that we
had a strong rally last week," said Chelsea Dipasupil of RCBC
Securities Inc.


The market is likely to continue its uptrend on the back of sound
economic fundamentals, and on expectations of stronger results
from select blue-chips which will announce their earnings results
later this week, said Ron Rodrigo of Unicapital Securities Inc.


"What is important is that the buying sentiment outweighs the
selling side. It shows that the market may be on its way to a
moderate bull run," said Rodrigo.


SM Investments Corp gained 7.50 to 370.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.10 percent lower in lacklustre
trade following the Easter break.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 4.23 points to 4,180.47 on light
turnover worth 98.1 million dollars (71.1 million US).


"It's school holiday mode and quite a few people are away, so the
news flow is pretty minimal from a corporate point of view," said
David Price of Forsyth Barr.


The New Zealand Institute of Economic Research's quarterly survey
of business confidence may add to pressure on the central bank to
raise interest rates again after it revealed ongoing inflationary
pressures in the economy.


Businesses were also more gloomy about general business
conditions, although they were more positive about their own
situation.


"I think we're heading into what will be quite a difficult time,
and under that sort of guise, it's pretty hard to see the market
performing particularly well," Price said.


Market leader Telecom fell five cents to 4.75 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices edged higher to post a fifth straight day of
gains amid caution ahead of the earnings season.


Dealers said investors were looking to the earnings seasons for
the January- March quarter, which kicks off with software
exporter Infosys Technologies on Friday, to give direction to the
market.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex closed up 11.8 points at 13,189.54.


"The buying spree appears to be waning. Prices eased as investors
turned cautious ahead of the earnings season. The Infosys
earnings data and guidance will set a near-term trend," said
Advait Date, dealer at brokerage BHH Securities.

