

Authorities in Macau are ready to release frozen North Korean
funds that have impeded disarmament talks, the US Treasury
Department said Tuesday.


"The United States understands that the Macau authorities are
prepared to unblock all North Korean-related accounts currently
frozen in Banco Delta Asia," the Treasury said in a statement.


"Based on previous discussions with Chinese, Macanese, and DPRK
(North Korea) officials, as well as understandings reached with
the DPRK on the use of these funds, the United States would
support a decision by the Macau authorities to unblock the
accounts in question."


However, the US statement gave no indication when or how the
funds would be released. One obstacle has been through which
banking institution in Macau would release the money to
Pyongyang.


An official at Macau's Monetary Authority also shed no light on
the issue.


"We may issue a statement today or tomorrow on the topic," the
official said Tuesday.


The release of the frozen funds has been a key stumbling block
toward progress in getting North Korea to halt its nuclear
program in exchange for fuel and other assistance from
international powers.


Under an agreement in six-party talks, Pyongyang was to shut down
and seal its nuclear reactor and other facilities at Yongbyon by
April 14, invite in UN inspectors and receive an initial 50,000
tons of fuel oil.


But talks were stymied by a row over the 25 million dollars in
North Korean funds frozen in Banco Delta Asia at US instigation
on suspicion they are linked to money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


In recent months US authorities have struggled to find a way to
get the cash through the banking system back to Pyongyang.


Earlier Tuesday US envoy Christopher Hill said that it was
becoming difficult to meet the exact deadline on the nuclear deal
this week due to the funds problem.


"Obviously every day this banking matter holds us up, and it
makes it more difficult to meet the precise deadline," Hill told
reporters in Tokyo.


"We're working very hard, over this weekend and these two days,
to try to finalise this matter of Macau, which frankly has held
up the implementation of the first set of obligations," Hill
said.

