

Madonna, Genesis and the re-formed Police will top a galaxy of
stars rocking the world against climate change in seven mammoth
concerts around the globe on July 7, organizers said Tuesday.


More than 100 acts will perform in the giant 24-hour Live Earth
concert relay -- the brainchild of former US vice-president Al
Gore -- spanning Sydney, Tokyo, Shanghai, Johannesburg, London,
Rio de Janeiro and New York.


The Red Hot Chili Peppers and Genesis top the bill at London's
Wembley Stadium while Bon Jovi, The Police and Smashing Pumpkins
will headline the concert at New York's Giants Stadium,
organisers said.


"Live Earth -- the concerts for a climate in crisis", dreamed up
by politician- turned-environmental campaigner Gore, are intended
to highlight the threat of climate change.


Organisers hope the concerts will raise awareness of the issue
just as the 1985 Live Aid concerts raised awareness of starvation
in Africa. They aim to reach over two billion people on
television, radio and the Internet.


In London, Duran Duran, the Foo Fighters, the Black Eyed Peas,
Keane, Snow Patrol, Bloc Party and the Beastie Boys will also
perform at the 90,000-seater newly-redeveloped Wembley stadium.


Razorlight, Corinne Bailey Rae, Damien Rice, David Gray, James
Blunt, John Legend and Paolo Nutini are among the other confirmed
acts who will take the stage.


The New York concert features Kanye West, Roger Waters, Dave
Matthews Band, Kelly Clarkson, Fall Out Boy and Melissa
Etheridge.


They will take the stage in the 80,000-seater Giants Stadium
alongside Alicia Keys, Ludacris, John Mayer, Akon, AFI, Rihanna
and KT Tunstall.


"By attracting an audience of billions we hope Live Earth will
launch a global campaign giving a critical mass of people around
the world the tools they need to help solve the climate crisis,"
Gore said.


"We hope the energy created by Live Earth will jump start a
massive public education effort.


"Live Earth will help us reach a tipping point that's needed to
move corporations and governments to take decisive action to
solve the climate crisis."


Starting in Sydney and ending in New York, the event will deliver
a call to action and the solutions needed to answer the call,
organisers said.


"This monster line-up will ensure Live Earth meets our goal of
bringing together people from around the world to combat the
climate crisis," said Live Earth founder Kevin Wall.


"Live Earth will not only span all seven continents, but the
musicians who have answered our call span multiple genres and
generations.


"Live Earth will be a monumental event both in terms of
entertainment and in turning the tide against global warming."


Proceeds from the concerts will go towards a foundation to combat
climate change. Tickets for the London gig will cost 55 pounds
(108 dollars, 81 euros).


The other Live Earth concerts will take place at Sydney's Aussie
Stadium, Tokyo Stadium, a Shanghai venue to be confirmed,
Johannesburg's Cradle of Human Kind and Rio de Janeiro's
Copacabana beach.


Gore is the author of a bestselling book on global warming "An
Inconvenient Truth," which was made into the blockbuster
documentary which won a pair of Oscars in February.


The last mammoth international concert series was Live 8 in July
2005, designed to pressure leaders from the Group of Eight
industrialised nations to change their approach to poor
countries.


It took up the baton from the unprecedented Live Aid, held at
Wembley and at JFK Stadium in Philadelphia in the United States.

