

Afghanistan promised Tuesday to do its utmost to free two French
aid workers seized a week ago by the Taliban as Australia pledged
to nearly double its military force in the insurgency-hit
country.


Highlighting the dangers posed by the resurgent Islamic movement
that was toppled by US-led forces in 2001, fresh Taliban attacks
left eight people dead, including four Afghan soldiers killed in
an ambush on Tuesday.


The Taliban have also been behind a wave of kidnappings which
analysts say are meant to capitalise on a deal made by the
government last month to swap an Italian reporter abducted by the
rebels for five Taliban.


When asked about two French nationals missing since April 3, a
spokesman for US- backed President Hamid Karzai said Tuesday that
"the security institutions are doing their utmost ... for their
safe release".


The Taliban say they have been holding the pair, and three
Afghans who work for the aid organisation Terre d'Enfance (A
World For Our Children), since abducting them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz.


Karzai, however, said last week no more hostage deals would be
made after a controversial trade involving five Taliban prisoners
resulted in the release of Daniele Mastrogiacomo, a reporter for
the Italian daily La Repubblica.


Afghan journalist Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was seized along with the
Italian, was beheaded by the militants on Sunday. The rebels have
also threatened to kill one of a five-strong Afghan medical team
seized separately on March 27.


The abductions also underline the challenges facing a special
Australian task force, spearheaded by 300 elite soldiers, that
will be deployed shortly to counter an expected summer offensive
by the Taliban.


As he announced the boost, Australian Prime Minister John Howard
told reporters in Sydney that his countrymen should be prepared
for casualties.


Howard said, however, that the war against the Taliban would not
be won without extra effort and that the possibility of
Afghanistan again becoming a "bolthole for terrorists" was real.


Australia already has some 550 soldiers in Afghanistan. Its total
military commitment would reach about 950 troops by the middle of
this year, and 1,000 next year, he said.


The new elite troops, including Special Air Services soldiers and
commandos, would be sent to Uruzgan province in south-central
Afghanistan.


Around 48,000 foreign troops are currently operating in
Afghanistan.


Meanwhile, in Zabul province which borders Uruzgan, the Taliban
ambushed an Afghan army convoy with rockets and machineguns
Tuesday, killing four soldiers and injuring 19 as they returned
to their base, a defence ministry spokesman said.


On Monday, two Afghan soldiers were killed and four seriously
injured when rebels attacked another convoy near Qalat, the
capital of Zabul, on a motorway leading from Kabul to the
southern city of Kandahar, officials said.


Also on Monday, Taliban fighters opened fire on a police vehicle
in Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban movement, sparking a
gunbattle in which a policeman and an insurgent were killed,
police chief Esmatullah Alizai said.


Nearly 1,000 people have died in Taliban-related violence since
January, including scores of Afghan security forces, civilians
and militants themselves, along with 34 foreign soldiers,
according to an AFP toll based on reports.

