

Taiwan on Tuesday held two military exercises including a rare
air raid drill in the capital city to test its defence capability
against rival China.


In a morning exercise simulating a surprise blitz by China's
People's Liberation Army, government leaders were evacuated to
the fortified national command in suburban Taipei.


Citizens in the capital rushed to shelters in the afternoon when
a siren sounded, signalling the start of the air raid drill.


Schools and factories were temporarily closed, but the mass rapid
transit system was not interrupted.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since
independence-leaning President Chen Shui-bian was elected
president in 2000. He was narrowly re- elected in 2004.


China considers Taiwan part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


"Only by continued practices and verifications of the existing
contingency plans during the peace time could damages and losses
be reduced in case of war," said the president after the drill.


"Through the exercise, the government's capability to manage
crisis has been enhanced," he said in a statement released by the
National Security Council, which organised the exercise.


Vice President Annette Lu, Premier Su Tseng-chang and a group of
cabinet officials also joined the drill.


But the exercises were overshadowed by the defence ministry's
announcement Monday that it had launched an investigation into
the alleged leaking of military data by an army colonel who
played a role in this year's biggest military war game, codenamed
"Han Kuang 23."


The ministry said the colonel had taken a USB flash drive
containing information simulating an attack by China.


The drive also contained sensitive data regarding "Po Sheng"
(Broad Victory), the military programme launched by Taiwan in
2003 to enhance the communications, intelligence and surveillance
capabilities of its armed forces.


The ministry said the flash drive contained a computer virus used
by Chinese hackers to assault Taiwan's military and government
websites.

