

US warplanes killed four Taliban rebels in an airstrike in
southern Afghanistan, officials said Tuesday, as four Afghan
soldiers, a policeman and a militant died in other violence.


Troops from the US-led coalition and the Afghan army called in
jets after insurgents attacked them with rocket-propelled
grenades in the Sangin district of southern Helmand province late
Monday, a coalition statement said.


"Coalition close air support was requested and fired on the
enemy-occupied compound. As Taliban fighters began to flee,
coalition aircraft engaged and killed four Taliban fighters who
were attempting to escape," it said.


There were no civilian casualties, it said.


Around 1,000 Afghan security forces and NATO-led troops took
Sangin district out of Taliban control at the weekend without
facing any major resistance, according to authorities.


Local residents said Afghan militia forces helping NATO-led
troops had looted several shops and houses in the restive
district. Police said they also had reports of looting by pro-
government militias but were investigating.


The coalition said in a separate statement it had arrested an
"anti-coalition militia commander" teaching the use of roadside
bombs early Tuesday in a raid with Afghan police in the eastern
city of Jalalabad.


Meanwhile dozens of Taliban militants ambushed an Afghan army
convoy with rockets in southern Zabul province on Monday, killing
four troops and injuring 19, defence ministry spokesman General
Mohammad Zahir Azimi said.


The soldiers came under fire as they returned to Qalat, the
capital city of Zabul province, from an operation in a nearby
village, Azimi said. He said the Taliban also sustained
casualties, but his ministry had no figures.


Azimi had earlier said the incident happened on Tuesday. He
clarified that it was also the same incident as one on Monday
that was reported separately by the army's southern commander,
who said that two troops had been killed.


Also on Monday Taliban fighters opened fire on a police vehicle
in the southern city of Kandahar, sparking a gunbattle in which a
policeman and an insurgent were killed, Kandahar police chief
Esmatullah Alizai told AFP.


Kandahar was the birthplace of the ultra-Islamic Taliban regime
which ruled Afghanistan from 1996 until 2001 when it was toppled
in a US-led invasion.


Since the start of the year nearly 1,000 people, most of them
militants, have been killed in violence linked to the Taliban
insurgency. Last year was the bloodiest since the Taliban were
ousted.

