

Violators of Thailand's new foreign investment law could face up
to five years in prison, under a revised version of the proposed
amendments approved by the cabinet Tuesday.


The changes, originally proposed in January, would limit
foreigners to holding no more than 49 percent of the shares or
voting rights in Thai companies.


The original proposal would have punished violators with only a
fine of up to 100,000 baht (2,870 dollars) but the revised
version raised the fine five-fold and also threatens five years
in prison, according to Commerce Minister Krirk- Krai Jirapaet.


Companies would also have three years rather than two to adjust
to the new regime, he added.


"The cabinet agreed to raise the penalty for violations both in
fines and imprisonment. Those who violate the law would face five
years in prison and fine of five times the amount in the earlier
draft," he added.


"We added the criminal penalty in order to promote good corporate
governance in the business sector," Krirk-Krai said, adding the
draft would be submitted to parliament before Friday.


"I personally believe that the amendment will not affect foreign
investment in Thailand or investor confidence because direct
investment usually focuses on the rate of return and the
investment opportunity," he said.


The latest draft still needs approval from the military-installed
parliament before taking effect.


The original proposal drew widespread complaints from foreign
investors here who warned that new investment could be switched
to neighbouring countries with fewer restrictions.


The bill also allows for broad exemptions, including the service
sector, which is governed by a separate law. Companies operating
under bilateral trade deals would also be exempt.


But the international business community has warned that the
changes would dampen the investment climate in Thailand, where
confidence has already suffered due to a series of abrupt policy
changes.


The World Bank last week also warned about the impact of the
amendments and suggested that the rules be liberalised.

