

Jordan's King Abdullah II on Tuesday warned in an interview with
AFP that a US troop withdrawal from Iraq without a timetable
could further increase the violence there.


"Withdrawal from Iraq without setting a timetable and without
preparing the necessary conditions that would ensure a strong
central government able to run the affairs of the state and an
Iraqi force able to ensure security and stability, may only
worsen the problem and contribute to increasing violence and
conflict among Iraqis," the king said.


However, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Tuesday rejected
demands by the US Congress for a timetable to pull out US troops,
saying the withdrawal should be based on the reality on the
ground.


Maliki said his government was working to improve security to
make it possible for US and other foreign troops to leave the
country, still in the grip of a deadly insurgency and sectarian
strife.


"We see no need for a withdrawal timetable because we are working
as fast as we can," Maliki told a news conference on a visit to
Tokyo.


The US Democratic Party has pushed for a withdrawal date since
seizing control of Congress from President George W. Bush's
Republicans on the back of voter anger over the Iraq war.


For the Jordanian monarch "the problem with Iraq is that Iraqis
themselves are divided between those supporting US-led coalition
forces in their country, those rejecting and resisting them as
occupation, and those that seek to disrupt the political process
and national reconciliation efforts."


"This group also seeks to undermine the unity of Iraq by inciting
sedition, sectarian strife and carrying out terrorist acts
targeting Iraqi civilians," he said.


He insisted that the solution is in "helping the Iraqis achieve
national reconciliation and involving all sectors of Iraqi
society in the political process."


Asked if sectarian violence could also occur in other countries
of the region, he said: "Today everybody realises that once you
start a sectarian issue it is very, very difficult to pull back.


"So all responsible regional actors, including Iran, understand
that going down this path will be disastrous to the whole
region."

