

South African President Thabo Mbeki was due on Tuesday in
Khartoum to join the international push for UN peacekeepers in
Darfur, amid fears of a regional spillover after clashes between
Sudan and Chad.


Mbeki, accompanied on the visit by Foreign Minister Nkosazana
Dlamini Zuma, was to meet his Sudanese counterpart Omar al-Beshir
in Khartoum as well as First Vice President Salva Kiir in Juba,
the capital of south Sudan.


He was expected to press Beshir to accept UN peacekeepers in
Darfur to boost an African Union (AU) force which has failed to
stem violence there, a proposal strongly rejected by Beshir who
accuses the West of harbouring neo-colonial ambitions.


Mbeki's visit comes as part of an international drive to persuade
Khartoum to accept the plan put forward by former UN chief Kofi
Annan, amid the risks of a spillover of the conflict into
neigbouring Chad and Central African Republic.


On Monday, around 30 fighters on both sides were killed in
clashes when the Chadian army crossed the border into Sudan in
pursuit of rebels, before being beaten back by Sudanese troops, a
Chadian official said.


The cross-border skirmish came after deadly battles between the
Chadian army and rebels earlier in the day in eastern Chad, less
than a week after government forces bombed rebel positions in the
east.


Chad and Sudan blame each other for supporting rebels in their
respective countries. Both have refused the deployment of a UN-
mandated force to patrol their border.


The potential regional dimension of the conflict has prompted
even Sudan's close allies to push for the deployment of UN
troops.


On Monday, China's envoy to the region, Zhai Jun, urged Sudan to
be more flexible on the plan.


"China appreciates Sudan's efforts in restoring peace in Darfur,
but is expecting more flexibility on the Annan plan," Zhai Jun
told reporters in Khartoum.


The international community has urged China to start using its
economic leverage to put pressure on Khartoum over Darfur, where
four years of civil war have killed at least 200,000 people and
displaced more than two million, according to United Nations
figures.


China, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, is the
leading foreign investor in Sudan, absorbing almost two-thirds of
its oil output, and has repeatedly shielded Khartoum from UN
sanctions.


Beijing's rare prod to its top African ally came as the plan was
being discussed in Addis Ababa and two days ahead of a visit to
Sudan and neighbouring countries by US Deputy Secretary of State
John Negroponte.


"Certainly he's going to encourage the Sudanese government to
give the green light to the AU-UN hybrid package, which is
fundamental to providing security and greater stability in
Darfur," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Implementation of the Annan plan has already started but
differences have emerged over the third and final phase, which is
supposed to lead to a joint -- or "hybrid" -- peacekeeping force
grouping AU and UN troops.


Khartoum has objected to the idea of a hybrid force and insisted
the AU keep control of it.


Efforts are also under way to revive a peace deal signed in May
2006 between a rebel group and the government.


The Abuja agreement was endorsed by only one of three negotiating
rebel factions. Violence has since continued unabated, deepening
what is considered the world's worst unfolding humanitarian
crisis.


Earlier this month, the AU suffered its deadliest attack since it
was deployed in 2004 when five soldiers were shot dead by gunmen.

