

A banking dispute blocking a disarmament accord with North Korea
will be settled "very, very soon," paving the way for the North
to start shutting down its nuclear plants, a senior US official
said Tuesday.


Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill was speaking just
after the US Treasury announced that Macau authorities were
prepared to unblock frozen North Korean accounts there, and that
Washington would support such a move.


"This is obviously a very big step when it comes. We have to
learn from Macau authorities precisely when (funds will be
freed). We understand it will be very, very soon," Hill, the
chief US nuclear envoy, told reporters.


"I think it should clear the way for the DPRK (North Korea) to
step up the (disarmament) process."


Hill, speaking after talks with his South Korean counterpart Chun
Yung-Woo, said he believed Macau authorities "will be saying that
account-holders can have access to the funds based on proper
identification and other procedures."


In the first phase of a six-country agreement, the North had
agreed to shut down a nuclear reactor by this Saturday in
exchange for badly needed fuel oil. But it has refused to budge
until it receives the 25 million dollars in funds that had been
frozen in a Macau bank under US sanctions.


The United States has agreed to unblock the cash, which was
blacklisted amid claims that North Korea was engaged in money-
laundering and counterfeiting.


But US authorities have struggled to find a way to get the assets
back to Pyongyang, with other banks fearing the money would sully
their reputations.


Hill, speaking earlier Tuesday in Japan, had sounded doubtful
about meeting the Saturday deadline.


"Obviously every day this banking matter holds us up, and it
makes it more difficult to meet the precise deadline," he said.


But in Seoul he sounded more optimistic.


"Let's see, we've got a few more days," Hill said. "Let's see how
we do in the next couple of days. Obviously it is a very
important week."


Hill also warned that such situations could occur again unless
the communist state gives up its nuclear arms.


"As long as the DPRK is engaged in nuclear weapons production,
they are going to find their external accounts very much
scrutinised," he said.


"They are going to find many international financial institutions
reluctant to take on the issue."


The nuclear issue is also on the agenda of US officials visiting
Pyongyang and of Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao in South Korea. South
Korean sources said Beijing's chief nuclear envoy Wu Dawei was
travelling with Wen.


They said Wu, Hill and Chun would meet Tuesday night.


Meanwhile New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson led a US team
to North Korea, officially to secure the remains of US troops
killed in the Korean War but also discussing the nuclear
showdown.


Richardson, a Democratic presidential candidate, said that he had
"secured assurances" the North would turn over the remains of six
US soldiers.


"This is a very positive gesture on the part of the North Korean
government," Richardson said in a statement.


Hill, who heads to Beijing Thursday, said he would meet in the
South Korean capital with Richardson.


China said the six-party deal would not fail even if the weekend
deadline was not met.


"We have encountered some difficulties which is very natural
because the six- party talks have never been a smooth process, it
is full of difficulties and twists and turns," said foreign
ministry spokesman Qin Gang.


"But I do not agree that if the initial actions are delayed in
implementation, then the six-party talks will fail or will be
invalid."


Japan has taken the hardest line in the six-nation talks, which
group it with China, the two Koreas, Russia and the United
States, on dismantling the North's nuclear weapons drive.


On Tuesday it extended sweeping sanctions against North Korea for
another six months to press it to give ground in an emotionally
charged row over its past kidnappings of Japanese nationals.

