

Washington said on Tuesday that money held in frozen North Korean
bank accounts could soon be released, removing a key obstacle to
Pyongyang cooperating on its nuclear weapons programme.


The US Treasury said that officials in Macau were ready to free
up Pyongyang's accounts in Banco Delta Asia, one of the
conditions set in talks to get North Korea to begin shutting down
its nuclear weapons program in exchange for foreign aid.


"The United States understands that the Macau authorities are
prepared to unblock all North Korean-related accounts currently
frozen in Banco Delta Asia," the Treasury said in a statement.


"Based on previous discussions with Chinese, Macanese, and DPRK
(North Korea) officials, as well as understandings reached with
the DPRK on the use of these funds, the United States would
support a decision by the Macau authorities to unblock the
accounts in question."


Neither the United States nor Macau gave any indication when or
how the funds would be released. One obstacle has been through
which banking institution in Macau would release the money to
Pyongyang.


"The government of Macao has noted the public statement released
by the US authorities in relation to the North Korea funds in
Banco Delta Asia," the Macau government said in a statement
Tuesday.


"The Monetary Authority of Macao will continue to coordinate all
parties concerned in Macao to properly deal with this issue
within the parameters of existing legislations.


"Simultaneously it expects all parties concerned to come up with
appropriate and responsible arrangements respectively."


The release of the frozen funds has been a key stumbling block
toward progress in getting North Korea to halt its nuclear
program in exchange for fuel and other assistance from
international powers, under an agreement reached on February 13
between North Korea, South Korea, Japan, China, Russian and the
United States.


Under the agreement Pyongyang was to shut down and seal its
nuclear reactor and other facilities at Yongbyon by April 14,
invite in UN inspectors and receive in return an initial 50,000
tons of fuel oil.


But talks were stymied by a row over the 25 million dollars in
North Korean funds frozen in Banco Delta Asia at US instigation
on suspicion they are linked to money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


North Korea refused to close the Yongbyon reactor or to return to
multilateral talks until it recovered the money.


In recent months US authorities have struggled to find a way to
get the cash through the banking system back to Pyongyang.


In Seoul Tuesday US Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill
said the resolution of the banking dispute is imminent.


"This is obviously a very big step when it comes. We have to
learn from Macau authorities precisely when. We understand it
will be very, very soon," Hill, the chief US nuclear envoy, told
reporters.


"I think it should clear the way for the DPRK to step up the
(disarmament) process."


Hill, speaking after talks with his South Korean counterpart Chun
Yung-Woo, said he believed Macau authorities "will be saying that
account-holders can have access to the funds based on proper
identification and other procedures."


Hill was traveling to Tokyo, Seoul and Beijing to discuss a
timeline for the second phase of North Korea's denuclearization
program.


"Let's see, we've got a few more days," Hill said. "Let's see how
we do in the next couple of days. Obviously it is a very
important week."


Hill also warned that such situations could occur again unless
the communist state gives up its nuclear arms.


"As long as the DPRK is engaged in nuclear weapons production,
they are going to find their external accounts very much
scrutinised," he said.


"They are going to find many international financial institutions
reluctant to take on the issue."

