

Singapore on Tuesday banned a film on former political detainee
Said Zahari, calling it a "misleading and distorted portrayal" of
his detention which could undermine confidence in the government.


The film entitled "Zahari's 17 Years" was directed, shot and
edited by Singaporean filmmaker Martyn See, who had earlier been
investigated by police for making a film on opposition leader
Chee Soon Juan.


The ban will take effect on Thursday, the Ministry of
Information, Communications and the Arts (MICA) said in a
statement, adding the film was "against public interest."


Zahari was among more than 100 alleged communists rounded up in
February, 1963 in Singapore, which was then a self-governing
state.


It joined the Malaysian federation in September that year and
became independent in August 1965. Singapore released Zahari from
all restrictions in 1979, 17 years after he was first detained.


Zahari maintains his Singapore citizenship but lives in Malaysia.


"The film gives a distorted and misleading portrayal of Zahari's
arrest and detention under the Internal Security Act in 1963,"
MICA said.


It was also "an attempt to exculpate himself from his past
involvement in communist united front activities against the
interest of Singapore," the statement added.


MICA said Singapore "will not allow people who had posed a
security threat to the country in the past to exploit the use of
films to purvey a false and distorted portrayal of their past
actions."


Possession and distribution of the film was an offence, it said.


Police had earlier investigated See for a 26-minute documentary
about Chee entitled "Singapore Rebel". See was let off with a
warning last year.


In "Zahari's 17 years", See features the elderly self-exiled
journalist, poet and author as he reflects on his 17 years in
detention.


He had submitted the film to the Board of Film Censors for
classification, MICA said.


Singapore has often been criticised by human rights and media
groups for maintaining strict political controls despite its
rapid economic modernisation.


But the government says the strict laws are necessary to maintain
law and order -- a pillar of the country's economic prosperity.

