

Iran on Tuesday pledged to further expand its nuclear drive after
the announcement its activities had entered an industrial phase
sparked Western concern but also uncertainty over its actual
capacities.


Shrugging off the latest warning from the United States over its
atomic programme, the head of Iran's atomic energy organisation
reaffirmed Tehran's ultimate aim of installing 50,000 centrifuges
to enrich uranium.


"The objective of the Islamic Republic of Iran is not just the
installation of 3,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant but we are
doing everything to install 50,000 centrifuges," said Gholam Reza
Aghazadeh, according to the state-run IRNA agency.


In a grand ceremony at its Natanz uranium enrichment plant in
central Iran on Monday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced
that the country was now able to enrich uranium on an industrial
scale.


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy.


However Ahmadinejad did not give figures on how far the Iranian
nuclear programme has advanced and diplomats based in Tehran
pointed to confusion over exactly how many uranium-enriching
centrifuges it had installed.


"I did not understand what they were talking about," said one
diplomat, who asked not to be named. "There seems a certain
confusion about the technical aspects of the announcements."


"Ahmadinejad really meant that Iran had announced it has the
capacity to pass into an industrial phase rather than it had
actually got there," said the Tehran-based diplomat.


Iran has so far only confirmed that it has two cascades of 164
centrifuges at the ultra-sensitive Natanz plant and Monday's
announcement was seen as signalling that it now has considerably
more than this figure.


But the notion that Tehran has already reached its medium-term
aim of installing 3,000 centrifuges "is simply not credible",
said another Western diplomat.


Aghazadeh meanwhile explained Tehran's reluctance to give any
figures over the progress of its nuclear programme by saying it
did not want to create "ambiguities".


"I did not want people to say that Iran has finished installing
3,000 centrifuges and everything has been completed now," he
explained.


Russia, which has been building Iran's first nuclear power plant
in the southern city of Bushehr, also warned against seeing any
"breakthrough" in Ahmadinejad's announcement.


"We do not know of any recent technological breakthroughs in the
Iranian nuclear programme that would change the character of the
work in the field of enrichment," foreign ministry spokesman
Mikhail Kamynin said in a statement.


The statement warned against reactions based on an "overflow of
emotions and sensationalism which is not necessarily based on
fact."


A team of inspectors from the UN's atomic watchdog meanwhile
arrived in Iran on a routine pre-planned week-long visit that
will see them visit the Natanz nuclear plant, the Fars news
agency reported.


The inspectors' confidential report is likely to contain the
figures which were lacking from Ahmadinejad's announcement.


Nonetheless the United States, Iran's arch enemy which accuses it
of seeking a nuclear weapon and has not ruled out a military
attack on the Islamic republic, lost little time in voicing its
worries.


"We are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they
entered an 'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


The increased tensions come just days after a potentially
explosive crisis with London was defused when Tehran announced it
had released 15 British sailors arrested on accusations of
trespassing in its waters.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


"The suspension of enrichment is not acceptable either as a
precondition to negotiations or as a result of such talks,"
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told reporters.

