

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, already weakened by a string
of headline- grabbing scandals, was on Wednesday threatened with
another criminal probe into suspected corruption.


Recommendations for a criminal inquiry were made in a report
presented by Israel's public watchdog to parliament, the premier
and attorney general, examining a suspected conflict of interest
while Olmert was a cabinet minister.


The findings whipped up renewed resignation calls against Olmert,
whose ratings have sunk to historic lows, just days before
findings are to published from a potentially damning report into
last year's Lebanon war.


State Comptroller Micha Lindenstrauss accused Olmert of trying to
advance a former business partner's interests by extending state
funds to help him set up a factory in southern Israel while trade
and industry minister.


In Israel, only attorney general Menachem Mazuz has the power to
order the opening of a criminal investigation against a sitting
prime minister.


"The investigation has revealed suspicions of criminal
activities, the state comptroller has presented his conclusions
to the attorney general," said the top public watchdog's office
in a statement.


"Minister Olmert's relations with the company representative, his
decisive intervention in various ways over the development of the
project, despite a conflict of interest, raise suspicions about
his integrity," it said.


The former business partner in question is lawyer Uriel Meser,
who is widely credited with having Olmert elected as Jerusalem
mayor in 1998.


In a statement carried by the online news site Ynet, the prime
minister's office said in response that Olmert had lost his faith
in the top public watchdog.


"The comptroller's conduct has unfortunately once again broken
records of unprofessional behaviour and favouritism in his work,"
a statement said.


Lindenstrauss has previously recommended a criminal probe into
appointments that Olmert made during his stint as trade and
industry minister.


Members of the left- and right-wing political opposition swiftly
stepped up calls for the 61-year-old Olmert to resign.


"Take pity on Israeli citizens and free them from the presence of
Ehud Olmert in the prime minister's office," said Gilad Erdan, a
member of the main right-wing opposition Likud party.


"Olmert should make way for someone who can relieve the state
from political and social challenges and who is not permanently
preoccupied with defending himself," said Yossi Beilin, leader of
the left-wing Meretz party.


Olmert, who served as trade and industry minister under previous
prime minister Ariel Sharon, became premier in January 2006 when
his long-time mentor Sharon suffered a massive stroke that ended
his public career.


He went on to win a general election in March 2006 but a series
of graft probes against Olmert along with a host of other
corruption probes and scandals involving other senior officials
have hammered his government.


Next week a government commission into the Lebanon war, which was
widely castigated as a failure in Israel, is to publish an
interim report expected to draw specific conclusions about
Olmert's conduct during last summer's conflict.


The Winograd Commission was set up on September 17 under massive
pressure from thousands of army reservists who publicly slammed
the army's inadequate preparation for battle and politicians for
mismanaging the war.


Last Sunday, Israel's finance minister Avraham Hirshson took a
three-month leave of absence over a police investigation into
claims that millions of dollars was embezzled from a trade union
he once headed.


President Moshe Katsav has also taken a leave of absence amid a
looming rape indictment in the most serious charges ever levelled
against an Israeli leader.

