

The US economy is seeing an expansion that is "only modest or
moderate" with softness in real estate, manufacturing and auto
sales in many regions, the Federal Reserve said in its Beige Book
Wednesday.


The report, to be used by the central bank at its May 9 monetary
policy meeting, highlighted several areas of weakness in the US
economy in the six weeks since the previous report.


"Most Federal Reserve districts noted only modest or moderate
expansions in economic activity since the previous report," the
Beige Book report said.


But the survey noted that data coming from the Fed regional banks
in New York and Minneapolis "reported steady and firm growth,"
and the Dallas Fed "characterized growth as moderately strong."


The real estate market appeared to be the main drag on economic
activity and was also leading to some weakness in related
manufacturing sectors, the report said.


"Residential real estate activity continued to weaken in many
districts," the central bank said. Only the northeast New England
region showed signs of increasing.


Manufacturing activity in most parts of the United States "was
slow, with many reports of weakening among manufacturers that
support the residential construction sector," the Beige Book
said.


In contrast, the news on consumer spending and retail sales in
most regions was "generally positive," according to the report.


The reports on auto sales were mixed, with some areas showing
flat or "mediocre" activity but a few areas of the nation more
upbeat.


On the inflation front, the Fed cited "continuing tight labor
market conditions" that are leading to some wage pressures but
other prices generally were steady except for energy costs.


The report appears to be in line with forecasts from private
economists of a slowing in the world's biggest economy.


The first reading on gross domestic product due Friday for the
January-March quarter is expected to show an expansion pace of
just 1.8 percent compared to 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of
2006.


But most economists say inflation remains a bit too high to allow
the Fed to cut rates and expect the central bank to maintain its
federal funds rate of 5.25 percent.

