

Defeated centrist candidate Francois Bayrou refused to endorse
either of France's presidential finalists Wednesday, leaving
Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal to fight it out for the
crucial votes of his seven million supporters.


Instead he launched a scathing attack on both candidates for the
May 6 run-off, savaging Royal's socialist economic programme but
reserving his strongest language for the right-winger Sarkozy,
who he described as a danger to democracy.


"With his close links to the business world and media powers, his
taste for intimidation and threat, Nicolas Sarkozy will
concentrate powers as never before," said Bayrou, who took third
place in Sunday's first-round vote.


"By his character and the themes he has chosen to stir up, he
risks aggravating our social divide through policies that benefit
the richest," he told a press conference.


While crediting Royal with having "better intentions" in terms of
democracy and being "more attentive" on social issues, Bayrou
criticised the specifics of her campaign platform.


"Her programme is full of state intervention, perpetuating the
illusion that it is up to the state to do everything, that it can
do everything.


"Her programme runs exactly counter to the direction needed to
give our country back its creativity and economic stability," he
said.


Both candidates were set to drive up French debt and deficit by
promising "a totally wild increase in public spending," and in
Sarkozy's case deep tax cuts, at a time when the country can ill
afford it, he said.


With presidential victory hinging on Bayrou's supporters, who
make up 18.7 percent of the electorate, Sarkozy and Royal have
sent out feelers to his centrist camp -- with hints of future
cooperation and ministerial posts.


Bayrou, who currently heads the small Union for French Democracy
(UDF), ruled out an alliance with either, saying he was setting
up a new centrist party, the Democrat Party, to contest
legislative elections on June 10 and 17.


But the centrist hinted strongly that he finds Royal less
distasteful than Sarkozy. "As you may detect, I do not put the
two of them on the same footing," he said.


Concerning his own vote, he said: "At present, I don't know what
I'll do. But I already have a idea of what I won't do."


Speaking on French television later, Royal -- who commentators
say has no chance of winning without strong support from the
centre -- offered to meet with Bayrou on Friday to "clarify"
aspects of her programme.


Bayrou said later that he would agree to a debate if it is
televised.


Sarkozy, also on television, ruled out any public debate with
Bayrou, although he said he was "open to dialogue" and repeated
that he would welcome centrists into his government.


Opinion polls give varying figures on the division among Bayrou
voters for round two. One said 46 percent will vote for Royal and
only 25 percent for Sarkozy. But another put them much closer at
39 percent and 35. Many said they will abstain or spoil their
vote.


Six opinion polls have put Sarkozy ahead on May 6, though a
SOFRES survey on Tuesday showed his lead narrowing to 51 percent
to 49.


France is choosing a successor to 74 year-old Jacques Chirac --
president since 1995 -- in an election that has become the focus
of impassioned debate about the country's future direction.


There was a near record turnout in the first round and a major
reverse for far- right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who saw his vote
fall back to 10.4 percent, after qualifying for round two five
years ago.


Founded in 1978, Bayrou's UDF party has been in almost permanent
alliance with Chirac and the right.


But in the election campaign, Bayrou veered sharply leftwards --
winning support both from Socialists unconvinced by Royal's
presidential stature and from UMP- supporters who feel Sarkozy is
too authoritarian or pro-American.


Many undecided Bayrou voters were waiting for the televised
debate on May 2 between Royal and Sarkozy before deciding who --
if either -- to vote for.

