

Moves to revive the failed EU constitution were gathering pace
Wednesday with Germany mooting changes to reach consensus and EU
Commission head Jose Manuel Barroso planning a summit on the
issue.


Germany, which holds the EU's rotating presidency, has sent the
27 EU member states a questionnaire on what to do about the
stalled constitutional treaty, to kickstart an intensive series
of bilateral talks.


The 12 questions, a copy of which were seen by AFP on Wednesday,
cover a range of possibilities including an opt-out from some
policy provisions and dropping the term "constitution", deemed
tainted in several quarters.


The original constitution has been ratified by 18 of the 27 EU
members states but was kicked into the political long grass in
2005 when French and Dutch voters rejected it in national
referendums.


It was drawn up to modernise the bloc's institutions, creaking
under the weight of a swift enlargement process which has
increased the number of member states from 15 to 27 since 2004.


The pitfalls associated with EU negotiations were highlighted
when Barroso's office performed a swift volte face just hours
after the announcement that he was arranging an informal
"brainstorming session" with selected leaders on the constitution
and other issues in Sintra, Portugal on May 12-13.


European Commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde declined to name
which EU leaders had been invited but said that "the
participation will be balanced and representative" and that "it's
good not to be too numerous."


However national governments swiftly confirmed they had received
invitations, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Spanish Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi among those on the guest list.


Belgium Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt has not been invited,
sources said, highlighting the problems of organising such a
meeting which leaves some EU leaders out of the picture.


Later in the day a fresh announcement said the plans for the
mini-summit had been changed "in order to avoid speculations
about European divisions".


"In the light of recent contacts and in order to avoid
speculations about European divisions," Barroso will now only be
inviting current EU presidents Germany "the future Portuguese and
Slovenian presidencies and the president of the European
Parliament (Hans-Gert Poettering) for informal consultations on
the same dates," the statement said.


"He was dissatisfied with the reactions" to his original plan,
another Barroso spokeswoman, Leonor Ribeiro da Silva, told AFP.


To revive the treaty process the German EU presidency has
arranged bilateral consultations with so-called sherpas from
member states over an intensive two- week period from April 23 to
May 4.


Berlin is making every effort "to restrict changes to what is
absolutely necessary to reach an overall agreement and ensure
ratification in all member states," according to the
questionnaire's introduction.


Among the most eurosceptic nations are The Netherlands and
Britain.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said last Friday he favours a
treaty that would not require a British referendum -- echoing
other European calls for a 'mini-treaty'.


In the introduction to its questionnaire, the German presidency
says a European summit on June 21-22 should decide to open "an
intergovernmental conference with a very precise and limited
mandate" on the constitution, with the aim of getting it ratified
by all members before the next European parliamentary elections
in 2009.


The dozen questions are based on suggestions from previous
bilateral negotiations and reflect the misgivings of the less
enthusiastic member states.


So there is a question about avoiding explicitly mentioning the
primacy of EU law and another on avoiding the use of certain
terms, including 'constitution' and European 'minister for
foreign affairs' a post which was included in the original treaty
and led to fears for national sovereignty over foreign policy.


However these name changes would be made "without changing the
legal substance" of the measures, the German paper assures.


Likewise there is a question of dropping references to EU symbols
such as its flag and anthem.

