

New England coach Peter Moores believes Michael Vaughan's side
can recapture the mood of the 2005 Ashes success and recover from
their dismal winter and World Cup campaign.


Moores has replaced Duncan Fletcher who resigned after the team's
failure to make the semi-finals in the Caribbean and he is
convinced that he can turn around the team's fortunes.


"There will be the chance to speak to some of the players and see
what lessons have been learnt over the winter that we can take
forward, hopefully to a very successful period of England
cricket," said Moores.


"We have shown over the last two years, with winning the Ashes
here in 2005, that there are some great players and they can play
some good cricket.


"The key will be to try and get that cricket played again by the
England team and let's see where that takes us."


England suffered a 5-0 Ashes drubbing in Australia in the winter
and despite beating the hosts to the CB series one-day title,
they could only finish in fifth place in the World Cup Super
Eights table ahead of West Indies, Bangladesh and Ireland.


Their next mission is to face the West Indies on home soil in a
Test series getting underway in May.


"I'm very positive because we've got these good players. It's
been a tough winter but out of tough times you learn a lot," said
Moores.


"They've been very successful up until the last 12 months. The
key for me is that we learn from those things that have happened
and we actually move forward and learn from those lessons."


Vaughan's position as one-day captain has been heavily criticised
after England's performance in the Carribean but Moores is
focussed on fostering a strong bond with the Yorkshireman.


"Michael is going to be captain for the first Test so it is
important to speak to him. His reputation as a captain goes
without saying.


"He will have some fairly interesting views on what has happened
this winter so it will be interesting to talk to him on the way
forward.


"The relationship with captain is one of the key relationships.
There are lots of things that make teams click but the coach-
captain relationship is one of the crucial relationships."


"Is it viable to have separate one-day and Test captains? I am
going to see what Michael's view is. In an ideal world it is nice
to have one captain but we will see where we go to."

