

A Polish proposal to ban discussion of homosexuality in schools
would violate European law, the European commissioner for equal
opportunity said Wednesday.


"Such a law, if it were to emerge, would be in contradiction with
the European human rights convention and the EU charter on
fundamental rights," Vladimir Spidla told the European Parliament
as part of a debate on homophobia.


Several Polish parliament members walked out after a vote to
suspend the debate failed.


Poland's deputy education minister, Miroslaw Orzechowski, said
last month that legislation was being prepared that would lead to
the dismissal of teachers who promoted "homosexual attitudes."


It would also prohibit gay organisations from providing
information in schools on protection from sexually transmitted
diseases, the deputy minister said.


Spidla said it appeared the proposed Polish legislation had not
yet been formulated.


The organisation Human Rights Watch has also criticised the
proposal as a violation of basic rights.


Meanwhile far-right Polish MEP Maciej Giertych, already in
trouble over an anti- semitic tract, published a homophobic
pamphlet bearing the parliament's logo.


Entitled "European values" the opinion piece, seen by AFP, states
that homosexuality is "biologically useless" and "reversible" as
long as there is "the desire to become heterosexual and the
spiritual motivation".


Gay parades should be banned, he adds.


Giertych offers his support to his deputy education minister's
plan to sack teachers who promote homosexuality.


"The EU shouldn't dictate how we should conduct ourselves on
moral issues," he says in the tract.


Giertych is the father of Roman Giertych, Poland's education
minister and deputy premier.


While both are the masterminds of the far-right League of Polish
Families -- led by Roman Giertych -- Giertych senior sits as a
non-affiliated MEP.


In March European parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering
reprimanded the euro MP for publishing an anti-Semitic tract also
bearing the parliamentary logo.


In the earlier pamphlet he argues that Jews "form the ghettoes
themselves" resulting in "biological differences."


He also argued that Jews backed both sides in conflicts, whereas
"we" -- an apparent reference to Christians -- "fight for
justice."

