

Shanghai Shenhua and Adelaide United were sent crashing out of
the AFC Champions League on Wednesday as Japanese sides edged
closer to the last eight.


Shenhua, quarter-finalists last year, picked up their first point
in four games in a dour 0-0 home draw with J-League champions
Urawa Red Diamonds but it wasn't enough to keep them in the
continental competition.


Adelaide, in their first Asian campaign, also failed to make the
cut, snuffed out in a 1-0 away loss to Korean champions Seongnam
Chunma.


A superlative 29th minute strike from Choi Sung-kuk was enough to
sink United, whose fate was sealed when group leader Shandong
Luneng of China defeated Vietnamese minnows Dong Tam Long An 3-2.


But fellow A-League side Sydney FC kept their hopes alive with a
Steve Corica brace helping them to a 3-0 home victory over
Indonesia's Persik Kediri to put them just one point behind Urawa
in Group E with two games left to play.


Only the top team from each group qualifies for the knockout
rounds.


China international striker Li Jinyu scored a last-ditch winner
deep into stoppage time as Shandong edged 10-man Dong Tam Long An
for their fourth consecutive win in Group G.


The match, which was disrupted late in the second half by a
floodlight failure, appeared headed for a draw when Li latched
onto an Aleksandar Zivkovic pass and slid the ball through the
legs of Dong Tam goalkeeper Santos.


The victory helped Shandong maintain their five-point lead over
second-placed Seongnam. The Chinese league champions only need
two points from their final two games to book their passage into
the knockouts.


Japan's Kawasaki Frontale also took a major step towards booking
their place in the quarter-finals with a comfortable 3-0 win over
Korea's Chunnam Dragons at the Todoroki Stadium in Kawasaki.


The win leaves Takashi Sekizuka's side all but assured of a berth
in the last eight, with the J-League runners-up needing just one
point in their final two games against Arema Malang and Bangkok
University.


Brazilian striker Juninho gave Frontale the lead after 25 minutes
but it was a brace from Jong Tae-se that sealed a win that moves
Kawasaki on to 10 points from four games.


In Malang, Indonesia's Arema edged Bangkok 1-0 to keep their slim
hopes alive and end any dream the Thai outfit had of joining the
big guns in the last eight.


In other matches, Uzbekistan's Neftchi upset Qatari champions Al
Saad 2-1.


Al Saad prop up Group C with only three points from four matches
and their chances of maintaining a 100 percent record of
appearing in every Champions League quarter-finals all but over.


Elsewhere, Iran's Sepahan and and United Arab Emirates side Al
Ain played out a 1-1 draw in Group D.


The group matches wind up on May 23 when the competition pauses
for the Asian Cup finals.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the quarter-
finals in September. The winners take home 600,000 US dollars and
earn a place in the World Club Championships in December.

