

A congressional committee on Wednesday gave its chairman
authority to subpoena Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's
testimony about now-discredited claims by the US administration
on Iraq's alleged nuclear weapons program.


Democrat Henry Waxman, chairman of the House Government Reform
Committee, said the panel is interested in learning how the White
House came to believe bogus assertions that Iraqi President
Saddam Hussein had been trying to obtain enriched uranium from
Niger.


Allegations that Iraq was seeking to build weapons of mass
destruction provided the main justification for the 2003 US-led
invasion of Iraq.


Waxman said at a hearing Wednesday that Rice, who during
President George W. Bush's first term served as his national
security adviser, is uniquely situated to shed light on why the
administration was so convinced about the claim, which the
president amplified in his State of the Union speech shortly
before the invasion.


"For four years I have been trying to get information from
Secretary Condoleezza Rice on a variety of issues, including the
reference to uranium and Niger in the president's 2003 State of
the Union speech," Waxman said.


"My goal is to conduct investigations without subpoenas. But if
we are stonewalled, then we can't hesitate then to call up the
powers that are available to us," he said.


The California lawmaker said that Rice and the committee for the
past several weeks have exchanged correspondence about her
possible testimony before the panel, but no agreement was ever
reached.


"I deeply regret that the secretary of state is giving us no
choice but to proceed with a subpoena," said Waxman.


He added: "We have hit a brick wall: She will not propose a date
to testify. She will not agree to testify. And she insists that
our committee be satisfied with partial information that was
previously submitted to other committees."


The head of the Republicans in the House of Representatives,
Minority Leader John Boehner, called the move a Democratic ploy
to embarrass the president.


"Subpoenaing Secretary Rice has more to do with political theater
than legitimate oversight goals," he said.


"This inquiry is designed more to obfuscate than to address the
threats facing this country today and for the foreseeable
future," said Boehner

