

Israel's public watchdog on Wednesday recommended that Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert face a criminal investigation into
corruption allegations while a cabinet minister four years ago.


"The state comptroller presented to the Knesset and the relevant
people a report on on Wednesday into suspected conflicts of
interest in Mr Olmert's activities as trade and industry
minister," a statement from his office said.


In the report, Micha Lindenstrauss accused Olmert in 2003 of
trying to advance a former business partner's interests by giving
him state funds to help set up a factory in southern Israel.


The company in question was represented by the business partner
in question, lawyer Uriel Meser, who is widely considered the
main force behind Olmert's election as Jerusalem mayor in 1998.


As a result the watchdog recommended another criminal probe into
the beleaguered Olmert, who has for months faced widespread calls
to resign over last year's war in Lebanon and several graft
probes.


"The investigation has revealed suspicions of criminal
activities, the state comptroller has presented his conclusions
to the attorney general," said a statement from Lindenstrauss's
office.


In Israel, only attorney general Menachem Mazuz has the power to
order the opening of a criminal investigation against a sitting
prime minister.


The Lindenstrauss report said that up to 10 million dollars of
state money could have been extended to tyre making company
Silikat. The company never formally came into being, however.


"Minister Olmert's relations with the with the company
representative, his decisive intervention in various ways over
the development of the project, despite a conflict of interest,
raise suspicions about his integrity," it said.


Olmert, who served as trade and industry minister under previous
prime minister Ariel Sharon, first became premier in January 2006
when his long-time mentor Sharon suffered a massive stroke that
ended his public career.


He has been implicated in several graft probes and Lindenstrauss
has already recommended a criminal probe into appointments that
he made during his stint as trade and industry minister in the
Sharon government.


Corruption probes and other scandals involving senior Israeli
officials have rocked the Jewish state in the past six months.


Last Sunday, Israel's finance minister Avraham Hirshson took a
three-month leave of absence over a police investigation into
claims that millions of dollars was embezzled from a trade union
he once headed.


President Moshe Katsav has also taken a leave of absence amid a
looming rape indictment in the most serious charges ever levelled
against an Israeli leader.

