

The Iranian and EU nuclear negotiators said after meeting
Wednesday that they would continue with their new attempt to
resolve the crisis over Tehran's atomic ambitions with a new
session in about two weeks.


Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani told reporters after meeting for
over almost five hours, including a working dinner, with EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana: "In about two weeks time
again we would be having some more talks."


"We had some good exchanges tonight regarding different issues,
including Iran's nuclear dossier. There are ideas on the table,"
Larijani said.


He described the talks as "pleasant."


Solana, who represents six world powers Britain, China, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States trying to start formal
negotiations, said it was a "very constructive dinner."


"The talks will continue tomorrow and in the coming weeks,"
Solana said.


Iran is stubbornly defying UN Security Council demands to halt
uranium enrichment, which makes fuel for civilian reactors but
can also provide the raw material for atom bombs.


Tehran denies charges by the United States and the European Union
that it is trying to build nuclear weapons, saying its programme
is a peaceful effort to generate civilian nuclear power.


The six world powers had last June offered economic, technical
and security benefits if Iran agreed to suspend uranium
enrichment, but Tehran pressed ahead and negotiations never
started.


In several rounds of talks, the last in February, Larijani and
Solana have failed to find a way to start meetings with the six.


Larijani said Wednesday that progress had been blocked when "some
unacceptable, irrational conditions were put forward" -- a clear
reference to the demands that Iran suspend enrichment.


Before Wednesday's meeting, Larijani told reporters that he was
waiting to see what "new ideas" Solana might be put on the table,
the Anatolia news agency reported.


But Solana's spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach, said there were "no
changes in the position of the international community," and
added that the priority was simply to "create conditions for the
beginning of negotiations."


Solana had earlier said he hoped that "this time we will be able
to move on in preparatory talks that may lead the sooner the
better to meaningful negotiations."


Solana and Larijani met for some three hours before breaking for
a tete-a-tete working dinner, the two men alone except for a
translator at a small table at the restaurant at the hotel where
they are staying.


Solana and Larijani could be seen huddled over papers, taking
notes while they talked.


The two are scheduled to meet Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul at breakfast Thursday, after which they are expected to make
a joint statement.


Diplomats had said before Wednesday's meeting that there was
little hope of a breakthrough given Iran's steadfast refusal to
freeze its enrichment work.


Iran is defying two UN Security Council resolutions to halt
enrichment, and the council has imposed limited sanctions as
punishment.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start formal talks, the two sides remain far apart in
the crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


But the six world powers were ready to compromise and give Iran a
chance to edge its way slowly into stopping uranium enrichment,
the diplomats said.


One diplomat said a new idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond enrichment activities it has already
started, opening the way for further talks with Solana while the
UN holds off on further sanctions.


Non-proliferation expert Gary Samore told AFP by telephone from
Washington that Tehran wants the EU to agree to set up an
international consortium to process fuel for Iran inside the
country.


The major powers want such a consortium to operate outside the
Islamic republic.


A Western diplomat said talks with the six powers -- the five
permanent Security Council members plus Germany -- would not in
any case start before Iran suspends enrichment.


"Suspension does not mean dismantling what they have built," the
diplomat said, in trying to show that the Western demands are not
excessive.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack on Iran.

