

A man suspected of carrying out a shooting at Turkey's staunchly
secularist Higher Education Board on Wednesday has been arrested,
according to media reports quoting the prime minister and police.


The man, identified as Nurullah Ilgun, was apprehended at
Ankara's central bus station, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan told the Anatolia news agency.


Police confirmed the information and said officers had been
posted at the station to catch the suspect, who was carrying a
gun when he was arrested, Anatolia reported.


A man described as being in his 30s fired several shots at
security guards after being stopped from entering the education
board (YOK), which has received threats in the past over its
secularist stances.


YOK chairman Professor Erdogan Tezic, who favours rigid
enforcement of a ban on the Islamic headscarf in Turkish
universities, which his board oversees, has often clashed
publicly with Erdogen's Islamist-rooted government.


YOK's deputy chairman Aybar Ertepinar said the institution had
stepped up security at its building in Ankara's Bilkent suburb
after receiving threats, which he did not specify.


The assailant forced his way into the garage of the building,
threatening the doorman with a gun, Ertepinar told NTV
television.


Security guards arrived just as the man was asking for Tezic's
office.


"He ran out and the guards chased him. He fired at them from two
spots in the street before commandeering first a car and then a
taxi to flee," Ertepinar said.


No one was injured, he said, adding that the assailant was filmed
by YOK's security cameras.


Ankara governor Kemal Onal told Anatolia that police had not
ruled out any theories on the motivations behind the shooting.


"It could be an attack, a spotting operation, or maybe someone
acting on an impulse," he said.


In May last year, a radical Islamist lawyer killed a senior judge
and wounded four others when he raided Turkey's top
administrative court in what he said was in retaliation for the
headscarf ban, which the tribunal helped enforce.


Wednesday's shooting coincided with the rekindling of a debate on
the Islamic headscarf, a highly explosive and divisive issue in
secular Turkey. It came a day after Erdogan's party nominated
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, whose wife wears the veil, as its
candidate to become the country's next president in May.


Before Ilgun's arrest was announced Wednesday evening, Erkan
Mumcu, head of the small centre-right opposition party Anap,
expressed "deep concern over the rise in tensions in parallel
with the presidential elections," and called on the government to
"fulfill its responsibilities."

