

Iran's nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani said here Wednesday that
he expected new ideas from EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
on breaking the standoff over Tehran's disputed nuclear
programme.


Solana said he hoped "this time we will be able to move on in
preparatory talks that may lead the sooner the better to
meaningful negotiations."


Solana said he had a "very constructive attitude ... We have
always placed on the table sensible proposals."


The two men's comments to reporters came as they were in the
Turkish capital in a new attempt to find a way through the crisis
sparked by Iran's defiance of UN Security Council demands to halt
uranium enrichment.


Iran denies US and EU charges that it is trying to build nuclear
weapons, saying its programme is a legitimate effort to generate
civilian nuclear power.


Larijani told reporters that the talks with Solana aimed to
evaluate "new ideas" that might be put on the table, the Anatolia
news agency said.


But Solana's spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach, said there were "no
changes in the position of the international community," and
added that the priority was simply to "create conditions for the
beginning of negotiations."


Diplomats said there was little hope of a breakthrough given
Iran's steadfast refusal to freeze its enrichment work.


Solana will travel on Thursday to Oslo, where he will brief EU
foreign ministers on his meeting with Larijani.


Iran is defying two UN Security Council resolutions to halt
enrichment, and the council has imposed limited sanctions as
punishment.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start talks, the two sides remain far apart on a
crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


The United States, Europe, Russia and China are ready in a
compromise gesture to give Iran a chance to edge its way slowly
into stopping uranium enrichment, diplomats said.


Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States
last June offered economic, technical and security benefits if
Iran agreed to the suspension. But Tehran pressed ahead and
negotiations never started.


In several rounds of talks Larijani and Solana have failed to
find a way to start meetings with the six powers.


Larijani said Wednesday that progress had been blocked when "some
unacceptable, irrational conditions were put forward" -- a clear
reference to the demands that Iran suspend enrichment.


One diplomat said an idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond activities it has already started,
opening the way for further talks with Solana while the UN holds
off on further sanctions.


Non-proliferation expert Gary Samore told AFP by telephone from
Washington that Tehran wants the EU to agree to set up an
international consortium to process fuel for Iran inside the
country.


The major powers want such a consortium to operate outside the
Islamic Republic.


A Western diplomat said talks with the five permanent Security
Council members plus Germany would not in any case start before
Iran suspends enrichment.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack on Iran.

