

Four men on Wednesday pleaded guilty at a London court to
conspiring to cause explosions with a man who was jailed for life
last year for plotting terror attacks in Britain and the United
States.


Junade Feroze, 31, Mohammed Zia Ul Haq, 28, Abdul Aziz Jalil, 34,
and Omar Abdul Rehman, 23, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to cause
an explosion or explosions likely to endanger life, at Woolwich
Crown Court.


Targets or locations were not specified in the charge.


But the charge alleged that they "conspired together and with
Dhiren Barot and other persons unknown unlawfully and maliciously
to cause by an explosive substance an explosion or explosions."


Muslim convert Barot, 34, was jailed for life on November 7 last
year after pleading guilty to planning synchronised attacks in
Britain and the United States, including using a so-called "dirty
bomb" on a London Underground train.


In the United States he planned to target the International
Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington, as well as the
New York Stock Exchange, the Citigroup headquarters and the
Prudential building in Newark, New Jersey.


At the time, Peter Clarke, head of the anti-terrorist branch of
London's Metropolitan Police, said Barot, who was arrested in
2004 but was plotting before the September 11 attacks in 2001,
was a "determined and experienced terrorist."


His four co-conspirators who admitted the charge at the southeast
London court Wednesday are said to have been plotting with him
between February 19 2001 and August 4, 2004, according to the
charge sheet.


A fifth man, Mohammed Naveed Bhatti, 27, from Harrow, northwest
London, pleaded guilty to the same charge last week.


Qaisar Shaffi, 28, of Willesden, northwest London, denied the
charge and will stand trial next week.


A seventh man, Nadeem Tarmohammed, also 28 and from Willesden,
was not arraigned on Wednesday.


Bhatti; Feroze, from Blackburn, northwest England; Ul Haq, from
Paddington, west London; Jalil, from Luton, north of London; and
Rehman from Bushey, also north of London, are expected to be
sentenced in June.

