

President Vladimir Putin paid warm tribute Wednesday to his
predecessor Boris Yeltsin, praising the main who set Russia on a
democratic course with "devotion and courage" following the 1991
breakup of the Soviet Union.


Speaking at a Kremlin memorial gathering that Russian media said
was attended by around 500 dignitaries following Yeltsin's
burial, Putin said the first democratically elected Russian
president "genuinely did everything he could to make life better
for millions of Russians.


"We will continue to work towards this goal," Putin, who is due
to step down next year at the end of his second term in power,
said in the speech which was recorded and broadcast later on
Russian television.


Putin described Yeltsin as a man "with a soul of truly Russian
scope and breadth, a man of inflexible will and sincere resolve"
who dedicated -- and even risked -- his life to steer the country
away from totalitarianism and towards democratic government and
market economics.


"Having become president thanks to the support of millions of
citizens of the country, he changed the face of power, broke down
the barrier between society and the state and served his people
with devotion and courage."


Video footage of the Kremlin gathering showed a number of current
and former top officials in Russia and other ex-Soviet republics
present, but it was not clear if any of the foreign dignitaries,
including former US presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush,
were there.


Putin credited Yeltsin's gregarious character and warm personal
friendships with many leaders in the world with contributing to
Russia's diplomatic relations today.


"When speaking of Boris Nikolayevich, it is impossible not to
recall his love of life and his openness," Putin said. "And it is
not by chance that his surprising ability to forge genuine
friendships became a real foreign policy asset for Russia."


Yeltsin, who died Monday at the age of 76, took upon himself the
heavy burden of creating new and democratic institutions in post-
Soviet Russia, Putin said, adding that "President Yeltsin
understood that the most important thing was not turning back."

