

BMW Oracle, out to return the America's Cup to the United States
for the first time since 1983, extended her unbeaten Louis
Vuitton Cup record to six wins here on Wednesday.


Oracle's latest victim in this two-month long qualifier
competition to determine which team goes on to tackle Swiss
America's Cup defender Alinghi in June, was France's Areva
Challenge.


Areva was succumbing to her third consecutive defeat in this
first round robin series after coming off second best to another
one of the favourites to make it through to the Louis Vuitton
semi-finals, Luna Rossa, earlier.


The Prada-backed Italians, former America's Cup finalists, were
behind in the early stages before pulling clear to win by over
half a minute.


But the French provided Oracle with less spirited opposition, the
US machine whose budget to capture yachting's greatest prize is
put at over 120 million dollars, sweeping to a majestic near
three minute win.


Emirates Team New Zealand, aiming to restore national pride after
their 5-0 whitewash by Alinghi in Auckland four years ago, have
recovered well after their opening day surprise defeat to another
of Italy's boats, Mascalzone Latino.


And skipper Dean Barker's crew posted their fourth win against
Team Shosholoza, the South African debutants who went under by
1min 23sec.


The Kiwis completed their day with a 1:03 success over another
country competing in the competition for the first time, United
Internet Team Germany.


That placed them second in the rankings on 14 points, one behind
Oracle, with Luna Rossa, who had suffered an unexpected loss to
team Shosholoza on Tuesday, the same distance back in third.


Team Shosholoza, who were beaten by home side Defasio Espanol in
the afternoon, saw their hopes of making a surprise appearance in
the last four diminish as they slipped two places to seventh.


The third boat making its America's Cup bow, China's Son of
Dragon, is struggling to make an impression in Valencia and
suffered defeats seven and eight against Mascalzone and Defasio
Espanol.

