

A Russian journalist who lifted the lid on censorship of
reporters covering the Kremlin said on Wednesday she had applied
for political asylum in Britain because her life was in danger.


"If I return to Russia I will be in danger. My life is under
threat," Yelena Tregubova, 33, told Echo of Moscow radio in a
telephone interview.


Tregubova, who wrote a book on her time as a Kremlin
correspondent under presidents Putin and Boris Yeltsin, told the
radio station she had applied for asylum in Britain on Monday.


"I fear seriously for my safety, but that is not a reason for me
to stay quiet now," she said, although she declined to describe
the nature of the threat.


She said she was "waiting for the decision of the leadership of
Britain" and vowed to continue working as a journalist.


Her 2004 book, "Tales of a Kremlin Digger," took a cynical look
at her time as a Kremlin pool reporter and her meetings with
Putin.


Released a few weeks before key parliamentary elections, the book
lifted the veil of secrecy over the tight censorship wielded by
Putin.


With Kremlin ire apparently provoked by the reporter's tale, the
state- controlled NTV channel abruptly pulled a report on the
book that had already been trailed.


Tregubova was deprived of her Kremlin accreditation at the end of
2000 after she refused to submit her articles to be reread.


She was also dismissed as a political reporter for the Kommersant
daily, although the newspaper said her dismissal was not related
to the book's publication.


In February 2004 a small explosive device exploded outside
Tregubova's Moscow apartment in an event authorities dismissed as
hooliganism.


The prosecutor's office in the central Moscow district where she
lived said Tuesday they had no information about any threats
against her, the Kommersant daily reported Wednesday.


"If she feels someone is after her, it's a different kind of
specialist she needs," the newspaper cited an official in the
prosecutor's office as saying.


Journalists in Russia have increasingly complained of pressure
from the authorities in recent years.


Last October the murder of a prominent Russian investigative
reporter Anna Politkovskaya, a fierce critic of Putin and the war
in Chechnya, prompted international outrage.

