

The European parliament on Monday adopted new rules on the
authorisation of cutting-edge medical treatments, overcoming
considerable misgivings from some MEPs over ethical questions.


The EU regulation on techniques such as gene therapy, cell
therapy and tissue engineering "offers new hope to thousands of
patients and researchers", the Strasbourg-based parliament said
in a statement.


British MEP Giles Chichester, a member of the parliament's
Industry, Research and Energy Committee, strongly supported the
measure.


"I regularly see reports in the press of exciting new therapies
and developments in this field. But usually they are in the USA
and not in Europe, which is to our loss," he said.


Such "innovative therapies", which have huge potential for curing
diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and other degenerative
conditions including cancer and heart disease "also have great
potential for the European economy", the parliament said.


The new regulation provides for a compulsory centralised
procedure to authorise the marketing of innovative medical
products and also for the subsequent monitoring of patients and
products.


But the parliament assured it "does not interfere with decisions
made by member states on whether to allow the use of specific
types of cells such as embryonic stem cells in accordance with
their ethical choices".


Some MEPs had tabled ethical amendments but these were mainly
rejected.


The opposition came mostly from Italian and German members and
those from eastern Europe, who wanted to exclude from the
regulations those treatments deemed to be ethically questionable.


Polish MEP Konrad Szymanski warned that the new rules "may have
serious shortcomings" as "there may not be enough guarantees for
human dignities".


If Europe rightly wanted to set human rights standards in the
world, he continued, it could not afford to adopt a "passive
position" when it comes to advanced therapies.


An amendment that proposed the exclusion of embryonic or foetal
cell tissue products from the regulation was defeated by 357
votes to 269.


The parliament did vote to exclude any products containing non-
viable human or animal cells or tissues.


The regulation states that the donation of cells and tissues must
be voluntary and unpaid and the anonymity of donors and
recipients guaranteed.


Patients must also have the right to know the origin of any cells
or tissues used, subject to respect for donor anonymity.


Three of the main political groupings in the parliament had
agreed a compromise package to allow the regulation to enter into
force speedily, probably around mid-2008.


It already has the approval of representatives of the 27 EU
member states, despite opposition from the official parliamentary
rapporteur, Slovak Miroslav Mikolasic.


The package is aimed at enhancing product safety, harmonising
authorisation procedures and making life easier for small firms.


To boost the development of innovative therapies, MEPs agreed to
grant smaller companies a reduction of 95 percent of the fee
payable to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for a scientific
opinion, and up to 65 percent for larger firms.


After five years the European Commission must report on the way
the regulation has functioned and review its scope.

