

Some of the rarest and most important religious books from
Judaism, Christianity and Islam are to be shown together for the
first time at the British Library in London from Friday.


Texts from the library's own collection and treasures on loan
from other institutions form the basis of the library's "Sacred"
exhibition, which runs until September 23, the institution said
in a statement.


The exhibition is free, although visitors are advised to reserve
tickets.


Lead curator Graham Shaw said: "The British Library has one of
the world's greatest collections of sacred texts and this
exhibition enables us to compare and contrast some of the
earliest surviving texts from the three faiths.


"This will be of great interest to scholars and general visitors
alike."


The exhibition includes priceless examples of the Torah, New
Testament and Koran, which will be mounted alongside each other
and treated thematically to show their similarities, differences
and how they were interpreted.


Treasures include the Codex London, one of the oldest surviving
manuscripts of the Torah, the first five books of the Old
Testament, which are central to Judaism.


Codex Sinaiticus, the oldest complete manuscript of the Old
Testament dating from around 350 AD, will also be on show, as
will the Ma'il Qur'an, which is one of the world's oldest
surviving examples of the Muslim holy book.


It dates from the beginning of the eighth century AD -- or the
first century in the Muslim Hijri calendar -- meaning it was
written within 100 years of the Prophet Mohammed's flight from
Mecca to Medina, a key event in Islam.


Other attractions include the Syriac Pentateuch, the earliest
known dated Biblical manuscript, and the Duke of Sussex's Spanish
Bible, which is considered one of the finest Hebrew bibles,
dating from the mid-14th century.


Queen Elizabeth II's husband, Prince Philip, and Morocco's King
Mohammed VI, are patrons of the exhibition.


Donors include the Coexist Foundation, a British charity that
promotes inter- faith relations, the Moroccan British Society and
the Saint Catherine Foundation, which supports conservation work
at the Monastery of Saint Catherine, Mount Sinai.

