

Germany, which holds the EU's rotating presidency, has sent the
27 EU member states a questionnaire on what to do about the
bloc's stalled constitutional treaty, to kickstart an intensive
series of talks.


The 12 questions, a copy of which were seen by AFP on Wednesday,
cover a range of possibilities including an opt-out from some
policy provisions and dropping the term "constitution", deemed
tainted in several quarters.


The original constitution has been ratified by 18 of the 27 EU
members states but was kicked into the political long grass in
2005 when French and Dutch voters rejected it in national
referendums.


The German EU presidency, which has arranged bilateral
consultations with member states over an intensive two-week
period from April 23 to May 4, is making every effort "to
restrict changes to what is absolutely necessary to reach an
overall agreement and ensure ratification in all member states,"
according to the questionnaire's introduction.


Among the most eurosceptic nations are The Netherlands and
Britain.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said last Friday that Britain
no longer needs to hold a referendum on any new European Union
treaty, a move welcomed by EU leaders battling to replace the
bloc's near-dead constitution.


Blair said that the EU treaty he favours to replace the failed
one would not require a British referendum.


"If it's not a constitutional treaty, so that it alters the basic
relationship between Europe and the member states, then there
isn't the same case for a referendum," he told papers including
Britain's Financial Times.


In the introduction to its questionnaire, the German presidency
says that a European summit on June 21-22 should decide to open
"an intergovernmental conference with a very precise and limited
mandate" on the constitution, with the aim of getting it ratified
by all members before the next European parliamentary elections
in 2009.


The 12 questions are based on suggestions arising from previous
bilateral negotiations, as the Germans attempt to discover what
the minimum changes each country would insist upon are for a new
treaty to be acceptable.


Hence many of the questions have been in effect drawn up by the
less enthusiastic member states.


So there is a question about avoiding explicitly mentioning the
primacy of EU law and another on avoiding the use of certain
terms, including 'constitution' and European 'minister for
foreign affairs' a post which was included in the original treaty
and led to fears over national sovereignty over foreign policy.


However these name changes would be made "without changing the
legal substance" of the measures, the German paper assures.


Likewise there is a question about dropping references to EU
symbols such as its flag and anthem.


Another question asks whether the member states believe that
original package of institutional provisions was "balanced" and
"should not be reopened".

