

Government data Wednesday showed US new home sales rebounded 2.6
percent in April to show some life in the struggling real estate
sector, but the rise was below most private forecasts.


New home sales reached an annualized pace of 858,000 units, the
Commerce Department said, below the average Wall Street forecast
for a pace of 890,000.


The level of sales remained 23.5 percent below last year's pace,
reflecting the slump in what had been a sizzling property market
for several years.


The government revised down its estimates for new home sales for
March to an annualized rate of 836,000 instead of 848,000, and
for February to 873,000 from 882,000.


The median sales price was up 6.4 percent from a year ago to
254,000 dollars.


But new home inventories, an indicator of future trends, showed a
rise of 0.2 percent to 545,000 units in March. That represents a
7.8 months' supply at the current sales pace.


The report came a day after industry data showed the biggest
monthly fall in over 18 years in existing home sales, which
represent a much bigger share of the overall real estate market.


The National Association of Realtors said Tuesday existing US
home sales sank 8.4 percent to an annualized pace of 6.12 million
units in March.


The uptick in new home sales drew a mixed response from
economists.


"Overall, the housing market is stabilizing. Prices are firming
and liquidity remains good," said economist Peter Morici at the
University of Maryland.


"Moving through spring and summer, consumers will feel more
confident and continue to power the economy forward."


Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors said it may be too soon
to get a good handle on where the housing market is now.


"Up is good, even if it wasn't as much as expected and even if it
may have been weather driven," said Naroff.


"But this report does not tell us that the market is stabilizing.
We still seem to be taking two steps backward and only one step
forward. And the pricing situation is a conundrum," he said.


"Demand is down sharply over the year but prices are up. I cannot
explain that. I still believe that falling prices are needed to
help clear out the excess supply and without those declines, we
could be in for a very long, slow adjustment period."

