

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana met Wednesday with Iran's
nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani in a new attempt to find a way
through the crisis over the Islamic republic's nuclear programme.


On his way into the meeting, Solana said he hoped "this time we
will be able to move on in preparatory talks that may lead the
sooner the better to meaningful negotiations."


Iran has stubbornly defied UN Security Council demands to halt
uranium enrichment, which makes fuel for civilian reactors but
can also provide the raw material for atom bombs.


Tehran denies charges by the European Union and the United States
that it is trying to build nuclear weapons, saying its programme
is a legitimate effort to generate civilian nuclear power.


Before the meeting, Larijani told reporters that he and Solana
would discuss "new ideas" that might be put on the table, the
Anatolia news agency reported.


But Solana's spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach, said there were "no
changes in the position of the international community," and
added that the priority was simply to "create conditions for the
beginning of negotiations."


Diplomats said there was little hope of a breakthrough given
Iran's steadfast refusal to freeze its enrichment work.


Solana will travel on Thursday to Oslo, where he will brief EU
foreign ministers on his meeting with Larijani.


Iran is defying two UN Security Council resolutions to halt
enrichment, and the council has imposed limited sanctions as
punishment.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start talks, the two sides remain far apart in the
crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


But the United States, Europe, Russia and China were ready to
compromise and give Iran a chance to edge its way slowly into
stopping uranium enrichment, the diplomats said.


Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States
last June offered economic, technical and security benefits if
Iran agreed to the suspension, but Tehran pressed ahead and
negotiations never started.


In several rounds of talks Larijani and Solana have failed to
find a way to start meetings with the six powers.


Larijani said Wednesday that progress had been blocked when "some
unacceptable, irrational conditions were put forward" -- a clear
reference to the demands that Iran suspend enrichment.


One diplomat said an idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond activities it has already started,
opening the way for further talks with Solana while the UN holds
off on further sanctions.


Non-proliferation expert Gary Samore told AFP by telephone from
Washington that Tehran wants the EU to agree to set up an
international consortium to process fuel for Iran inside the
country.


The major powers want such a consortium to operate outside the
Islamic republic.


A Western diplomat said talks with the five permanent Security
Council members plus Germany would not in any case start before
Iran suspends enrichment.


"Suspension does not mean dismantling what they have built," the
diplomat said.


Tehran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack on Iran.

