

A senior UN official appealed Wednesday for calm in the Middle
East, saying the rise in tensions between Hamas and Israel should
not endanger diplomatic efforts for peace now underway.


"One concern that I have very much is that everybody does
exercise restraint," said UN Under-Secretary-General for
Political Affairs Lynn Pascoe, after Hamas declared Tuesday an
end to its truce with Israel and fired dozens of rockets into the
Jewish state.


"We think it's very important because there has been some forward
movement on some of the issues in the last month ... and we very
much would like to have that continue, therefore we have asked
for the maximum restraint on all sides," Pascoe said.


Hamas announced its was ending the truce Tuesday after Israeli
raids that killed nine Palestinians at the weekend.


But Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert warned Wednesday that
Israel would respond severely to the Hamas rocket fire, which
took place as Israel marked its 59th anniversary.


Pascoe expressed strong worries about the newest moves between
Israel and the Palestinians in a meeting of the UN Security
Council, noting that "political and diplomatic initiatives aimed
at rejuvenating peacemaking in the Middle East have continued to
evolve in a mostly positive fashion."


"However, the forward momentum we are witnessing on the
political-diplomatic level is threatened by the deteriorating
security situation on the ground, especially the continuing
violence experienced by both Israelis and Palestinians."


British minister of state Kim Howells echoed his view that
progress had been made before the newest outbreak of violence.


"We were delighted by the renaissance in Saudi foreign
diplomacy... It's an important reawakening and it's had quite a
galvanizing effect on people out there... I think it's very
significant".


Asked about the fighting in Gaza, Howells called it "very
regrettable."


"We've been heartened by the way in which the ceasefire seems to
have held for a long time and this breach of the ceasefire is a
very serious deterioration," he said.

