

Global crude oil prices jumped higher on Wednesday after news
that US reserves of gasoline fell more heavily than expected last
week, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
gained 1.01 dollars to 68.17 dollars per barrel in electronic
deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, added 37 cents to 64.95 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


The US Department of Energy revealed Wednesday that gasoline or
petrol reserves sank by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending
April 20.


That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for motor fuel
stockpiles and compared with market expectations for a lighter
fall of just 500,000 barrels.


"Today's energy stocks report was a step backward in readying for
summertime demand in the US," said Altavest trader Tom Hartmann.


Traders are closely watching stock levels ahead of the US peak-
demand driving season that begins next month and sees many
Americans hit the highways for summer vacations.


The DoE added that crude oil inventories increased by 2.1 million
barrels last week. That confounded analysts' forecasts for a
decrease of 1.5 million barrels.


The surprise gain in crude stockpiles was "not going to get
anywhere near the attention that the gasoline figures will,"
according to Citigroup analyst Tim Evans.


Traders added that geopolitical concerns over key crude producers
Iran and Nigeria were also supporting prices.


Sucden anlayst Michael Davies noted: "In addition to robust
demand for oil, uncertainty over Nigeria's future and controversy
surrounding Iran's nuclear enrichment programme continue to
support the market."


Nigeria's powerful Catholic church and Human Rights Watch have
added their voices to the chorus of criticism levelled against
violence-marred presidential elections.


The US-based rights watchdog on Wednesday highlighted a late
start, a shortage of ballot papers, widespread voter
intimidation, the seizure of ballot boxes by thugs and vote
buying.


Nigeria's current oil output has been slashed by around one
quarter owing to violence in the crude-rich Niger Delta.

