

US and Ethiopian military intervention in Somalia has hampered
international efforts to bring peace to the war-torn country, an
independent British report said Wednesday.


"Genuine multilateral concern to support the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of Somalia has been hijacked by unilateral actions
of other international actors -- especially Ethiopia and the
United States -- following their own foreign policy agendas," the
report from the Chatham House foreign affairs think-tank said.


The installation of a new Somali government in early 2007 with
Ethiopian backing and US support to counter a rise in Islamism,
plus the arrival of African Union peacekeepers, was "highly
provocative", it said.


Eight days of ongoing violence between Ethiopian forces and
Islamist guerillas in the Somali capital Mogadishu has claimed at
least 329 lives, according to a tally from a human rights group.


Similar battles at the end of last month claimed at least 1,000
lives and thousands of civilians have now been displaced.


Chatham House researchers Cedric Barnes and Harun Hassan said
support for the brief Islamic Courts regime that came to power in
Mogadishu in 2006 is likely to re-emerge.


"This experience (the unrest) dramatically underlines the
benefits of the brief period of 'Islamist' authority in southern
Somalia which already begins to seem like a 'Golden Age'," they
said.


Barnes, from London's School of Oriental and African Studies
(SOAS), and Hassan, from the Somali Media Centre, said people do
not trust the government and it does not represent the powerful
interest groups in Mogadishu.


"Whatever the short-term future holds, the complex social forces
behind the rise of the Islamic Courts will not go away," they
said.


"Indeed, while warlords and secular governments have come and
gone, the Islamic Courts have enjoyed relatively consistent
support for over a decade.


"They have tended to garner support when the populace are fed up
with insecurity and ineffectual and corrupt politicians.


"For these reasons alone, as well as the likely long-term failure
of the Transitional Federal Government's reliance on foreign
protection and unwillingness to reconcile with armed opponents,
the forces behind the Islamic Courts -- in one form or another --
are likely to rise again."

