

Chechens reacted with indifference or glee to the death of
Russia's first president Boris Yeltsin, whom many here blame for
starting the first Chechen war in 1994.


Yeltsin ordered Russian troops into the separatist southern
province in 1994, triggering an 18-month conflict that left tens
of thousands dead.


"His death leaves me indifferent," said Maryam Ismailova, a 25
-year-old resident of Chechnya's main city, Grozny. "Many feel
that the war in our republic was his initiative."


"I can't judge him, that's Allah's will," she added.


The destruction wrought on Grozny by Russian artillery --
technically under Yeltsin's command -- earned him the nickname
"Bulldozer."


"Bulldozer is dead? Well all the better!" one man said on a bus
in Grozny when he heard of Yeltsin's death in Moscow on Monday at
the age of 76.


"He has the blood of thousands on his hands, both Russian and
Chechen," said Said-Akhmed Salamov, a 42-year-old Grozny builder.
"He sowed chaos everywhere, in Russia and in Chechnya."


Zelim, a Chechen interior ministry official, who declined that
his surname be used, said: "He's dead. Finally! I've been
dreaming of this for the past 10 years."


"That man deprived me of my youth," Zelim said.


"For me he was, and remains, the initiator of the two cruel wars
in Chechnya which killed thousands of innocent people," he added.


An estimated 100,000 people died in the two Chechen wars, the
second of which was launched in 1999 by Vladimir Putin, then
Yeltsin's prime minister.


Anzor Khadayev, an unemployed 35-year-old, also had little
sympathy for Russia's first president.


"If it was my choice, I would have put Yeltsin next to the 'great
Lenin,' so his soul would have no peace," he said.


The Soviet leader lies embalmed in a mausoleum on Red Square.


While Yeltsin's death brought back bitter memories for many, the
republic's pro- Russian leadership clearly toed the Kremlin line.


"The Chechen people learned with much sadness the news of the
death of the first Russian president," Chechen president Ramzan
Kadyrov said in a statement addressed to Putin.


He "freed and opened Russia," Kadyrov said.

