

The Ugandan government on Wednesday called for commitment from
the rebel Lord's Resistance Army on the eve the reopening of
stalled peace talks, a bid to halt the country's two-decade war.


Government delegation spokesman Felix Kulaije urged foreign
nations to pressure the LRA rebels to commit to the talks that
kick off Thursday in the southern Sudanese capital Juba.


"We appeal to the international community to exert more pressure
on the other side so that they are serious this time because for
us we are ready to go all the way," Kulaije told AFP.


For their part, the LRA said they hoped the talks would proceed
without hiccups.


"We hope it will be smooth this time," said rebel delegate Ayena
Odongo.


The talks in Juba, southern Sudan, stalled in December when the
rebels walked out, citing fears for their lives.


They demanded a new venue and new mediators, accusing the
southern Sudanese autonomous government of bias.


However, on April 14, the LRA agreed to resume negotiations after
meeting with UN envoy to the conflict Joaquim Chissano.


Human Rights Watch said Wednesday that war crime suspects in the
LRA leadership had to be prosecuted if their region was to
achieve durable peace.


LRA supremo Joseph Kony, his deputy Vincent Otti and three other
commanders have been indicted by the International Criminal Court
for crimes against humanity -- specifically for murder, rape,
mutilations and mass abductions.


"Ensuring justice for the most serious crimes is critical to
achieve the durable peace sought by the people of northern
Uganda," Richard Dicker, HRW's International Justice Programme
director, said in a statement.


He added that Ugandan military forces had also been implicated in
serious human rights abuses.


The conflict has claimed tens of thousands of lives and displaced
around two million people.


"The people here who have endured the suffering are (hopeful)
that this time the delegations will take the talks to a logical
conclusion so that they can return to their homes," Archbishop
John-Baptist Odama, the head of the Catholic Church in northern
Uganda, told AFP.

