

Ignoring the promise of a veto by President George W. Bush, the
US House of Representatives was set Tuesday to approve a war
funding bill that includes a timetable for pulling US troops out
of Iraq.


"For the first time, the president will have to face up, will
have to be accountable for this war in Iraq. And he does not want
to face that reality," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday.


The bill, which still requires approval by the Senate before it
goes to Bush's desk, provides 124.2 billion dollars -- even more
than the administration sought -- to bankroll operations in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


But the generosity, meant to respond to needs of veterans
returning from war who at times have faced poor quality medical
care, comes with a pricetag the administration sees as
unacceptable: a requirement that US troops start withdrawing from
Iraq in October, with a non-binding target date of completing the
pullout by March 31.


Ahead of the promised presidential veto, expected next week, both
sides are scrambling to squeeze the maximum political mileage out
of the debate, stepping up their rhetorical jabs.


Backed by surveys showing the Iraq war is hugely unpopular, which
helped their party forge their majority in Congress, Democrats
argue there is a general desire for a new direction in Iraq
strategy.


"The new direction, Mr. President, did not mean escalation of the
war. It meant bringing stability to the region, and bringing our
troops home safely and as soon as reasonably possible," Pelosi
underscored Tuesday.


The White House has slammed as political expediency the
Democrats' stated desire to implement what the US public wants in
Iraq. It has branded Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid defeatist
for saying that the war was already lost at least on the military
front.


In rare remarks delivered at the US Capitol after meetings with
fellow Republicans, Vice President Dick Cheney roundly criticized
the compromise bill hammered out late Monday between House and
Senate Democratic leaders.


"What's most troubling ... is his defeatism," Cheney said of
Reid. "The timetable legislation that he is now pursuing would
guarantee defeat."


Reid shot back that Cheney was the administration's "attack dog"
with single- digit public support levels.


Meanwhile the Bush administration has sent envoys to lobby
lawmakers on the merits of its policies: Cheney on Tuesday and
commander David Petraeus on Wednesday.


General Petraeus was expected once again to urge lawmakers to
withhold judgment on the new policy (sending 28,000 additional
troops, announced in January) despite a surge in violence
including in Diyala on Monday where nine US troops were killed.
Last week, Reid said the extra troops would serve no purpose.


In the medium range, despite the rhetoric, no one doubts that the
Democratic-led Congress will disburse the funds the Pentagon is
requesting -- but on terms that remain very much up in the air.


"One vote at a time," one Democrat said Tuesday.


Among possible solutions: the Democrats could release funds one
small chunk at a time to keep the Iraq debate at the center of
political dialogue.


Or it could impose targets forcing the administration to justify
progress it says is being made.

