

The murder trial of legendary music producer Phil Spector got
underway here Wednesday, four years after a B-movie actress was
found shot dead at his Los Angeles mansion.


Spector, 67, the reclusive musical genius who pioneered the 1960s
"Wall of Sound" recording technique, is accused of shooting dead
Lana Clarkson at his imposing neo-gothic estate on February 3,
2003.


In opening statements of what is the highest-profile celebrity
trial in Los Angeles since the 1995 OJ Simpson case, prosecutors
painted a portrait of Spector as a man with a "rich history of
violence" towards women.


"The evidence is going to paint a very, very clear picture of a
man, Phil Spector, who turns sinister and deadly in certain
circumstances," prosecutor Alan Jackson told the hearing at a
packed Los Angeles Superior Court.


"It is going to paint a picture of a man who put a loaded pistol
inside Lana Clarkson's mouth and shot her to death."


Spector, wearing a tan three-piece suit with a knee-length
jacket, trademark platform shoes and a strikingly wide-collared
purple shirt, fidgeted as prosecutors laid out their case.


Famed for his work with The Beatles, Tina Turner, The Righteous
Brothers, The Ronettes and the Ramones, Spector faces up to 15
years in prison if he is convicted of second degree murder.


Jackson told the court that the death of statuesque, attractive
Clarkson came after decades of violent outbursts by Spector
against women involving firearms.


"The evidence will show he has a very rich history of violence
against women, a history of violence involving guns," Jackson
said.


A crime scene photograph of Clarkson slumped in a chair in the
foyer of Spector's home was shown to the jury during the
morning's hearing.


Clarkson was killed only hours after meeting Spector for the
first time at the Hollywood nightclub where she worked as a
hostess. She was dead by the next morning at his home.


Spector is regarded as one of the most influential figures in
rock-pop music history. In the early 1960s he was responsible for
hits including "Da Doo Ron Ron," "Be My Baby, Baby" and "You've
Lost That Lovin' Feelin."


His trial has been repeatedly delayed due to legal wrangling and
scheduling conflicts.


Spector, who a few weeks before the shooting described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me," has
strongly denied murder, telling Esquire magazine in 2003 that
Clarkson shot herself.


Clarkson starred in movies such as 1987's "Amazon Women on the
Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of Morella," but her career had
stalled at the time of her death.

