

Virginia Tech gunman Cho Seung-Hui fired more than 170 bullets in
nine minutes in his murder rampage in the university classroom
building where he killed 30 on April 16, police said Wednesday.


Virginia state police superintendent Steven Flaherty told a press
conference in Blacksburg, Virginia that ballistics reports and
other evidence also tied Cho to two students shot death earlier
that morning at a dormitory, but that police still had not found
any personal ties.


"Cho's shooting rampage inside Norris Hall lasted about nine
minutes," Flaherty said.


South Korea-born, US-raised English major Cho, 23, killed a total
of 27 students and five faculty members and wounded more than 20
others in the deadliest US school shooting spree last week.


Last week hospital and Virginia medical examiner's office
officials told media that Cho's victims each had three or more
bullet wounds in them.


Police also said they "don't have any evidence" for Cho's
specific motives for the massacre aside from the rambling, hate-
filled writings, photographs and videotaped statements that he
mailed to NBC television from a Blacksburg post office between
the first shootings around 7:00 am on April 16 and the second
shootings, about two and a half hours later.


However, Flaherty said that police had concluded that Cho
recorded all of the video and made the photographs prior to the
first shootings in the West Ambler Johnston dormitory on the
campus.


Police also said that ballistic tests on a nine-millimeter
handgun, one of two found by Cho's body after he killed himself
at the end of his rampage, showed it was used both in the
dormitory killings and those in the Norris Hall classroom
building later in the morning.


Despite witnesses having seen Cho outside the dormitory just
prior to the shooting of female student Emily Hilscher and
dormitory advisor Ryan Clark that morning, police were reticent
to declare categorically that Cho had killed them.


They are also still trying to understand why Hilscher was
apparently Cho's first victim.


"We are still trying to figure out what he did or did not do"
inside West Ambler Johnston, campus police chief Wendell Flinchum
said at the press conference.


Flaherty also explained why police had not locked down the campus
after the first shooting that morning, an issue that drew
criticisms of the university from students.


He said that after Hilscher and Clark were discovered dead,
police quickly focused on a likely suspect and, after putting out
an alert they soon found and began interrogating the person --
whom he declined to identify.


Questions have been raised about how Cho, a loner who was raised
in Centreville, Virginia, was able to obtain the two handguns and
ammunition used in the massacre despite his record of mental
illness.


University professors had noted his extreme anti-social behavior
and violent leanings, and he had been held by police in 2005 as
mentally unstable and a threat to himself before being released
with an order to see a mental health counselor.

