

Global crude oil prices jumped on Wednesday after news of another
heavy fall in US gasoline reserves ahead of the peak season for
motor travel, traders said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, gained 1.26 dollars to close at 65.84 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
surged 1.41 dollars to 68.57 dollars a barrel.


The US Department of Energy said that gasoline or petrol reserves
sank by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20.


That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for gasoline
inventories and compared with market expectations for a lighter
fall of just 500,000 barrels.


"Today's energy stocks report was a step backward in readying for
summertime demand in the US," said Altavest trader Tom Hartmann.


Traders are closely watching stock levels ahead of the US driving
season, which begins in four weeks, when many Americans hit the
highways for summer vacations.


The DoE added that crude oil inventories increased by 2.1 million
barrels last week. That confounded analysts' forecasts for a
decrease of 1.5 million barrels.


The surprise gain in crude stockpiles was "not going to get
anywhere near the attention that the gasoline figures will,"
according to Citigroup analyst Tim Evans.


Traders added that geopolitical concerns over key crude producers
Iran and Nigeria were also lifting prices.


Sucden analyst Michael Davies noted: "In addition to robust
demand for oil, uncertainty over Nigeria's future and controversy
surrounding Iran's nuclear enrichment program continue to support
the market."


A broad opposition coalition on Wednesday urged Nigerians to take
to the streets peacefully next week to force the cancellation of
flawed elections, slammed by foreign and domestic monitors alike,
that were held this month.


The elections have renewed market jitters over Africa's biggest
oil producer, where crude output has been slashed by around one-
quarter owing to separatist unrest in the Niger Delta.

