

Draped in black, her eyes swollen with tears, Boris Yeltsin's
widow on Wednesday bent over her husband, stroked his brow and
kissed him a final farewell in a ceremony that carried odd echoes
of this country's confused past.


The white and gold-robed priests wafting incense over the coffin
and the quavery soprano chanting of the nuns of the Novodevichy
convent ensured that Yeltsin's send-off had a religious tone
unthinkable for his Soviet-era predecessors.


The garishly decorated Christ the Saviour cathedral where
mourners embraced Yeltsin's widow Naina has also become a
hallmark of the new Russia, even though it is a pastiche of past
architectural styles that actually dates from the Yeltsin 1990s.


But as mourners joined the funeral procession and a lone bell
echoed through the pine trees there were overtones of the more
militaristic Soviet era, in the ancient looking armoured car that
pulled the coffin, goose-stepping soldiers and the anthem that
played as the coffin was lowered into the ground.


The anthem, accompanied by a salvo of cannon fire, was a reminder
of current President Vladimir Putin's nostalgia for Soviet times.
It was Putin who decided to abolish the new Russian national
anthem introduced by Yeltsin and instead restored the Soviet-era
one, with adapted words.


Those present could have been forgiven if their minds wandered
back to a past age.


A series of funerals of Soviet leaders in the 1990s came to
symobolise the regime and its decline for many in the West.


But it was actually a dramatic gesture by the widow of Soviet
leader Leonid Brezhnev at his funeral that heralded the return of
religion to state funerals in Russia.


It went largely unnoticed in the West, but Brezhnev's widow
Viktoria stunned her compatriots when, standing over her
husband's open coffin, she made the Christian sign of the cross
over his body.


One of those present on Wednesday, George H.W. Bush, was on Red
Square that day representing the United States in his then role
as vice president.


On Wednesday as Russian television channels played slow-motion
footage of Yeltsin, there was little sign of dissent from the
current Kremlin line that Yeltsin was a good man who paved the
way for the assertive Russia of today.


But some members of the public, gathered outside Christ the
Saviour hoping for a glimpse of the funeral, were having
difficulty reconciling today's official adulation with the man
they remembered.


As with many people outside the country, Russians these days
mostly associate Yeltsin with embarrasing drunken incidents, such
as when he seized the baton from a bandmaster in Germany and
started conducting himself, or played the spoons on the president
of Kyrgyzstan's bald head.


Yeltsin "was drunk 17 times in public and his daughter was one of
the richest in the country," asserted one man in the crowd,
trying to make sense of it all.

