

Six Austrian athletes caught doping at the 2006 Turin Winter
Olympics were banned for life Wednesday, the International
Olympic Committee said.


"The Executive Board of the International Olympic Committee (IOC)
today unanimously decided to declare permanently ineligible six
athletes from the Austrian biathlon and cross country teams who
competed in the Torino 2006 Olympic Winter Games," an IOC
statement said.


The athletes were caught in possession of drug paraphernalia as
well as actual performance enhancing drugs, Thomas Bach, the head
of the IOC's disciplinary commission, told a press conference
here.


Two biathletes -- Wolfgang Perner and Wolfgang Rottmann -- as
well as cross country skiers Roland Diethart, Johannes Eder,
Juergen Pinter and Martin Tauber received the bans.


Charges against a seventh athlete, cross country skier Christina
Hofmann, were dismissed, the statement said.


"The IOC, I think, has taken an important step in the fight
against doping," said Bach, adding that the athletes would be
banned from competing, coaching and serving on sports bodies.


Tauber for one denied any wrondoing.


"I haven't done anything illegal," he claimed.


"They found an instrument to measure hemaglobin levels at my
lodgings in Pragelato which I used to keep a check on my levels
which naturally can be too high.


"But nowhere is it written that it's illegal to have possession
of such a device."


He added: "My reputation has been damaged and whatever happens I
will be looking at challenging this decision through the courts
as far as my financial means permit."


The drug cases stem from a joint IOC and police raid on the
Austrian biathlon and cross-country squads' base in private
quarters in the Italian Alps during the Turin games.


Documents and medical items were seized and Italian police opened
an immediate investigation, whose findings were handed over to
the IOC in January this year.


"The Italian report showed very clearly that a great quantity of
medical equipment had been seized in this apartment being used by
athletes, not by a medical doctor, but by athletes," Bach added.


He said that 80 medical devices, including advanced medical
equipment, were found in the apartment along with used syringes,
blood bags and bloody handkerchiefs.


Bach said that such behaviour went beyond possession of drugs and
brought the additional charge of conspiracy, which required more
severe punishment.


"Today's decisions show that the IOC will not tolerate any anti-
doping violations and that concerted efforts between governments
and the world of sport, acting in their respective roles to
combat doping in sport, are paying off," said the IOC statement.


Peter Schrocksnadel, president of the Austrian ski federation,
said none of the evidence his organisation had in their
possession pointed to anything illegal.


But he cautioned: "If we discover that someone has done something
illegal, and we don't know that yet, we won't support them as we
are against doping.


"However if the accusations are unfounded then we will defend our
athletes."


The IOC decision came on the day that the Austrian city of
Salzburg staged a presentation here to convince dozens of IOC
members, and others attending a major sports conference, to
support its bid to host the 2014 Winter Olympics.


Salzburg is on a short list of three candidate cities along with
South Korea's Pyeongchang and the Russian Black Sea resort of
Sochi. The final vote comes in July.


Asked whether the decision could hurt the Austrian bid, IOC
president Jacques Rogge declined to comment.


However, one IOC member said that the anti-drug drive championed
by Rogge could affect the bid.


"They had drug problems at the 2002 Winter Games and here they go
again. It looks bad," said the member, who asked not to be named.

