

The chief executive of Siemens, Europe's biggest engineering
company, said Wednesday he would step down later this year to
allow the group to focus on weathering a corruption scandal.


"Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld, president and CEO of Siemens, has announced
that he is not available for a renewal of his contract which
expires on September 30, 2007," the company announced.


It said that Kleinfeld, who has not personally been implicated in
the ongoing slush fund investigation, had refused to accept a
postponement of the decision on extending his contract.


"In times like these, the company needs clarity about its
leadership. I have therefore decided not to make myself available
for an extension of my contract," said Kleinfeld, 49, as quoted
in the Siemens statement.


"The company must have complete freedom of action."


A simmering corruption scandal at Siemens threatened to boil over
in late March when a board member, Johannes Feldmayer, was
arrested and kept in custody as part of a probe into alleged
payments made to a union official.


Prosecutors have also raided Siemens offices in Munich, Erlangen
and Nuremberg.


In a separate case, prosecutors are investigating whether company
managers skimmed off as much as 200 million euros (273 million
dollars).


The company said that Kleinfeld had helped Siemens confront "past
wrongdoing without compromise."


Siemens' former chief executive and the current head of the
supervisory board, Heinrich von Pierer, also formally stepped
down Wednesday.


Members of the Siemens supervisory board had said behind closed
doors in recent days that the company needed to make a fresh
start with new management as it contended with an ongoing slush-
fund probe.


The incoming supervisory board chief, Gerhard Cromme, thanked
Kleinfeld for his "decisive and successful leadership" of Siemens
over the past two years.


"Siemens is in better condition than ever before. Under the
management of Dr. Kleinfeld, the company was given a strategic
reorientation that will ensure sustained success," Cromme said.


"This strategy should be continued in the future. The supervisory
board is grateful to Dr. Kleinfeld that he will remain available
to serve until September 30, 2007."


It was not immediately clear who would replace him.


The Financial Times Deutschland reported Tuesday that Siemens was
in talks with a number of "external candidates" to replace
Kleinfeld, with the CEO of Linde, the world's leading maker of
industrial gases, Wolfgang Reitzle, heading its wish list.


Reitzle however has indicated he is not interested in the job,
sector sources said.

