

Eight US Democrats weigh in Thursday for the first debate in
their bids for president, with two big-hitting, big-budget
favorites headlining: Barack Obama and former first lady Hillary
Clinton.


Along with the two chief contenders, six other Democratic
hopefuls will lock horns at a university in Orangeburg, South
Carolina, for a 90-minute televised debate, a key stage of the
quickening race for the party's nomination.


"A lot of it will be how they present themselves, more than
necessarily what they say," said Stephen Hess, a politics and
elections expert in Washington.


"They are all Democrats. So they all basically agree," said Hess,
a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution political research
body and teacher at George Washington University. "They can't
avoid talking about Iraq."


Most eyes will be on the favorites for the nomination: Obama, a
46-year-old senator from the state of Illinois and compelling
orator seen as a rising Democrat star, and New York Senator
Clinton, a consummate political technician.


Hillary Clinton, wife of former president Bill Clinton, must
fight to preserve her perceived edge in the contest, Hess said.
For Obama, the debate will be an opportunity to mark his
territory on hot political topics.


"For somebody like Hillary Clinton, I would say the importance is
not making a mistake. As the front runner, the others could gang
up on her and how she responds to that would be important," Hess
said.


"For Obama, (the debate's) importance is somewhat different," he
added.


"Because all of his positions so far have been very vague, and
now he's starting to put some flesh on the bone, for him the
question is specificity, how can he impress the audience with his
knowledge" of political issues.


As well as the United States' role in war-torn Iraq, which each
of the contenders has criticized, these may include health care
and the environment.


A survey of likely voters in a Democratic primary election by
pollsters Rasmussen published on Monday put the two on level
pegging, with 32 percent of voting intentions each. Former
Senator John Edwards ranked next, on 17 percent.


Clinton, wife of former President Bill Clinton, revealed this
month her campaign had raised 36 million dollars, the highest sum
in the first quarter for any presidential candidate ever. Obama
raised some 26 million.


The other players in the debate are Senators Joe Biden and Chris
Dodd, House of Representatives member Dennis Kucinich who ran for
president in 2004, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson and
another former senator, Mike Gravel.


"There are some other candidates who are exceptionally qualified
people and in other years they would be considered front-runners
-- Richardson, Dodd, Biden," Hess said. "It feels more important
for them. They have that little moment in the sun."


The debate airs live on television across the country on Thursday
at 7:00 pm (2300 GMT). Republican candidates will hold their
first candidacy debate for the 2008 election in California on May
3.

