

Shelling and tank fire rattled the Somali capital Wednesday as
fighting between government-backed Ethiopian forces and Islamist
guerrillas entered its second week, with hundreds already killed.


Meanwhile, the UN pleaded for access to bring aid to tens of
thousands of displaced civilians, and talks between feuding sides
aimed at reaching a ceasefire failed.


Human rights workers monitoring the death toll said eight
civilians were killed, bringing the death toll to at least 329
people, mostly civilians and insurgents, in the latest clashes,
three weeks after similar battles claimed at least 1,000 lives.


After a relatively quiet night, Ethiopian tanks rumbled through
northern Mogadishu Wednesday, firing shells in a bid to wipe out
determined Islamist and clan fighters who have frustrated the
transitional government's efforts to exert its control.


The insurgents, often shifting their defence positions, responded
with machine- gun fire and mortar shells on the eighth day of
artillery duels.


The Somali government claimed to be making progress against the
insurgency that has paralysed the capital, the epicentre of
bloodshed since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre
sparked a bloody power struggle.


"Most areas frequented by terrorists have been overrun in the
past week," government spokesman Hussein Mohamed Mohamud told
AFP.


Witnesses said mortar shells hit Mogadishu's SOS children's
hospital Wednesday, where dozens of wounded civilians are being
treated, but there were no casualities.


As battles continued, talks between Ethiopian commanders and
elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan, to which most
insurgents belong, failed to hammer out a truce after both sides
disgreed on the definition of rebel fighters.


"We reached no agreement. They (Ethiopians) are saying they are
fighting terrorists ... but we are saying they are clan militias
and not terrorists," elder Mohamed Hasan Haad told AFP. Another
meeting is scheduled for Thursday.


Previous ceasefire agreements have, however, been violated.


In New York, the United Nations humanitarian chief John Holmes
pressed the Somali government, accused of failing to cooperate
with humanitarian teams, to allow access for aid deliveries to
those displaced.


He said aid groups have been blocked from using airstrips outside
Mogadishu and the World Food Programme (WFP) denied clearance to
deliver food to tens of thousands camped under trees in Afgoye,
about 30 kilometers (19 miles) south west of capital.


"I hope that position is now changing," Holmes told reporters at
the United Nations late Tuesday after briefing the UN Security
Council on Somalia.


Holmes said UN officials had secured a pledge from the government
not to block humanitarian operations.


Dozens of rotting corpses remained abandoned in and around the
capital and Mogadishu doctors appealed for supplies to help save
the wounded.


Meanwhile, residents continued their exodus from the city to join
thousands in makeshift camps outside the city.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but elders
told AFP the figure could now be more than 400,000.


"We are getting reports that people have started dying in the
camps because of squalid conditions -- they are starving, with no
water, food or medicine," said Sudan Ali Ahmed, chairman of the
Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation which monitors casualty
rates.


"These people should just stop fighting."

