

Sri Lanka's left-handed batsman Russel Arnold has announced he
will retire from international cricket after the World Cup final.


"I felt this is the right time," 33-year-old Arnold told AFP here
following Sri Lanka's 81-run semi-final win against New Zealand
here at Sabina Park.


"There are a couple of younger guys coming through. I have been
busy playing cricket for the last ten years, it's now time to
move on and it'll be good to finish things off with a World Cup
win."


Sri Lanka will play the winners of Wednesday's semi-final between
champions Australia and South Africa in Saturday's final in
Barbados.


A statement from Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) in Colombo on Wednesday
confirmed Arnold's decision.


"Russel has informed his decision to team manager Michael Tissera
in Jamaica and it has now been officially conveyed to the cricket
board," SLC spokesman Samantha Algama told AFP.


He will, however, continue to play domestic cricket, Algama
added.


Earmarked as a potential future captain, Arnold's full potential
was never realised.


He made his Test debut in Colombo against Pakistan in 1997 and
enjoyed a permanent position in the Sri Lankan side between 1999
and 2003.


Temporary loss of form forced him onto the sidelines over the
past two years before the selectors brought the occasional off-
spinner back for the World Cup.


"There have been lots of ups and downs over the years," Arnold
said. "But I am going without any regrets. There have been
several other talented guys who never got a chance to represent
the country and things could have been worse for me.


"I am happy with what I have achieved. I know the expectations
were high, but unlike most other cricketers, I know my talents
are limited and I tried to get the maximum out of my talent,
which is satisfying".


Arnold hinted he wanted to stay close to cricket even though a
major part of his playing career was now over.


"I want to be involved with the sport in some capacity, it could
be commentaries. I have had a few suggestions, but nothing
concrete as such.


"I won't get into anything immediately. I will just wait and
see."


Arnold played 44 Tests, scoring 1,821 runs with three centuries,
at an average of 28.01. His last appearance in the five-day game
was three years ago against Australia in Darwin.


The World Cup final will be his 180th one-day international. He
has made 3,949 one-day runs with one hundred at an average of
35.57.


Arnold is the latest player to announce his international career
is finishing with the World Cup, following the exits of
Australia's Glenn McGrath and former West Indies captain Brian
Lara, while several coaches have also said they are quitting
their respective teams.

