

UN peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo were
Wednesday conducting joint operations with the army in a restive
eastern region to clear it of Rwandan rebels, officials said.


A UN source said the joint operations were launched on Monday in
the forest of Mugaba, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) southwest of
Bukavu, the capital of South Kivu where rebels from the
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) have gained
ground.


"The clean-up operations are aimed at regaining control of the
areas occupied" by the rebels, the source said, adding that drive
would continue on Thursday.


Meanwhile, in a separate drive, DR Congo soldiers were conducting
a separate offensive in North Kivu.


Six army battalions had been deployed to secure two arterial
roads linking the town of Goma, the capital of North Kivu
province, and Ishasha on the Ugandan border, an army official
said.


"After a series of ambushes and attacks on civilian vehicles by
the FDLR, we launched this operation on Tuesday at dawn," colonel
Delphin Kahimbi told AFP.


"We have identified eight positions held by the FDLR from which
they stage attacks," he said. "These have been re-taken without
any combat."


Kahimbi said the operations would continue for a few days after
which the army would stage patrols in the area.


On April 16, suspected FDLR rebels attacked a minibus on the road
between Goma and Ishasha in which a student was killed. Three
days earlier, they exchanged gunfire with Congolese soldiers on
the same road.


Rwandan Hutu fighters, estimated to be about 10,000-strong by the
United Nations, are still present in eastern DR Congo where they
continue to terrorise locals.


They led 14 attacks last month in the Walungu and Kabare areas,
according to Kemal Saiki, spokesperson for the UN mission in the
DR Congo (MONUC).


Another 72 people were kidnapped and several rapes were reported.


Some of the rebels are accused of having participated in the
Rwandan genocide in 1994. Some 800,000 people, most of them
ethnic Tutsis, were killed within six weeks in Rwanda in 1994 by
members of the Hutu ethnic group.


The international community considers their presence in the DR
Congo as one of the main threats to stability in the region,
though they have been weakened in recent years by division and
desertions.

