

EU lawmakers backed on Wednesday the use of armed "sky marshals"
on flights in the 27-nation bloc, but required them to operate
under strict conditions.


After the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, the
European Union adopted joint rules for checking air passengers,
their baggage, freight, mail and flight and ground crews.


At the end of last year, member states also gave themselves the
option of using sky marshals.


While agreeing to the use of such armed security officers, the
European Parliament required them to be properly trained and
insisted that they cannot carry a weapon "unless the required
security conditions have been fulfilled."


The country of departure, arrival and any other country in
between would also have to give their approval to sky marshals
being used.


The parliament also wants any special security measures, such as
a ban on liquids, to expire after six months unless they are
deemed necessary following a review of security risks, the costs
and the impact.


New limits on transporting liquids and creams in the EU came into
force in November after British authorities announced in August
that they had foiled an alleged plot to blow up US-bound
airliners using liquid explosives smuggled aboard.


Lawmakers also voted in favour of the costs of security measures
to be covered by passengers and governments and that any more
stringent measures be borne entirely by the member states.


"This is a reasonable approach, taking into account the
protection of airline customers', the industry's and the member
states' interests," said Italian Liberal Democrat Paolo Costa,
who drew up the text.


The parliament and EU member states will have to try to hammer
out new plans bridging differences on several key points, such as
who should bear the costs of security measures.


Once that is done, common, basic security standards on such
things as security controls and banned items could go into effect
at the end of the year, while the rest of the package could take
effect in 2009.

