

An alleged Al-Qaeda sleeper agent who was detained in Canada
demanded Wednesday a review of his case by Public Safety Minister
Stockwell Day, after his accuser apparently recanted.


Canadian media reported last week that convicted terrorist Ahmed
Ressam said he made up incriminating statements about fellow
Montrealer Adil Charkaoui, a landed immigrant from Morocco who
was arrested in May 2003.


"I want to show Canadians that I am not a terrorist," Charkaoui
told reporters outside Parliament, under the watchful eye of
security forces.


"I call on Minister Day to conduct a fair and transparent review
of my case and the security certificate used to detain me. I also
want an apology and my reputation restored," he said.


Ressam, an Algerian-born Montrealer, was caught trying to slip
into the United States in 1999 with a trunk full of explosives to
bomb the Los Angeles International Airport.


He cooperated extensively with US authorities following his
conviction in the United States in 2001, hoping for leniency. He
was sentenced to 22 years in jail, but a US judge ordered a
review of his sentence this year.


According to the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, Ressam
claimed he met Charkaoui at an Al-Qaeda training camp in
Afghanistan -- an allegation Charkaoui denies.


Melissa LeClerc, a spokeswoman for Day, told AFP Charkaoui's case
would not be reviewed, noting "the information we have (against
him) is based on several sources ... more than just what Mr.
Ressam has said."


The government still believes Charkaoui "poses a risk to Canada's
national security," she added.


Charkaoui was detained under a so-called "security certificates"
which allowed Ottawa to detain foreigners suspected of terror
ties without charges for many years, and permits secret court
hearings with undisclosed evidence.


The procedures were found to breach constitutional rights by
Canada's high court in February, but the justices allowed the
government one year to amend the law.


Charkaoui was released under strict bail conditions in February
2006 while awaiting the culmination of court challenges of his
deportation order.

