

The chief executive of Siemens, Europe's biggest engineering
company, said on Wednesday he would leave his post this year to
allow the company to focus on weathering a corruption scandal.


Siemens said in a statement after a meeting of its supervisory
board that Klaus Kleinfeld "has announced that he is not
available for a renewal of his contract which expires on
September 30, 2007."


It said Kleinfeld, who has not personally been implicated in the
ongoing slush fund investigation, had refused to accept a
postponement of the decision on extending his contract.


"In times like these, the company needs clarity about its
leadership. I have therefore decided not to make myself available
for an extension of my contract," Siemens quoted Kleinfeld, 49,
as saying.


"The company must have complete freedom of action."


Siemens' former chief executive and the current head of the
supervisory board, Heinrich von Pierer, formally stepped down on
Wednesday.


Board members had said behind closed doors in recent days that
the company needed to make a fresh start with new management as
it contended with the wide- reaching criminal investigation.


The incoming supervisory board chief, Gerhard Cromme, thanked
Kleinfeld for his "decisive and successful leadership" of Siemens
over the past two years.


"Siemens is in better condition than ever before. Under the
management of Dr. Kleinfeld, the company was given a strategic
reorientation that will ensure sustain success," Cromme said.


The corruption scandal at Siemens, hitherto one of Germany's most
respected industrial groups, heightened in March when a board
member, Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested and kept in custody as
part of a probe into alleged payments made to a union official.


Union representatives have a powerful decision-making role in
German companies.


Prosecutors have also raided Siemens offices in Munich, Erlangen
and Nuremberg.


In a separate case, prosecutors are investigating whether company
managers skimmed off as much as 200 million euros (273 million
dollars).


Kleinfeld had brought in private investigators to try to get to
the bottom of the allegations and Siemens acknowledged that
Kleinfeld had helped it confront "past wrongdoing without
compromise."


It was not immediately clear who would replace him.


The Financial Times Deutschland reported on Tuesday that Siemens
was in talks with a number of "external candidates" to replace
Kleinfeld, with the CEO of Linde, the world's leading maker of
industrial gases, Wolfgang Reitzle, heading its wish list.


Reitzle however has indicated he is not interested in the job,
sector sources said.


Despite losing the support of the board, Kleinfeld was popular
with many Siemens shareholders, who have seen their stock in the
company steadily increase in value.


A positive results trend continued on Tuesday when Siemens posted
better than expected returns for the second quarter of the
2006-2007 fiscal year.


Net earnings rose 36 percent on January-March the preceding year
to 1.26 billion euros, well above the 1.15 billion expected by
analysts.


Siemens, which employs more than 450,000 people worldwide, builds
trains, power plants and manufactures medical and
telecommunications equipment.

