

The leading Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index smashed the
13,000-point barrier for the first time Wednesday as bullish
investors cheered upbeat profit news from corporate America.


The leading blue chip share gauge soared as high as 13,036.99
points in early morning deals before receding slightly as some
investors opted to cash in recent stock gains.


Market observers said the 13,000-point mark was psychologically
important for Wall Street and would likely help underpin Wall
Street's optimism despite concerns about US economic growth and a
widespread housing slump.


At 1556 GMT, the Dow was up a hefty 65.33 points, or 0.50
percent, at 13,019.27 points as Wall Street investors celebrated
the index's record-breaking streak.


The tech-laden Nasdaq composite had meanwhile gained 10.88 points
(0.43 percent) to 2,535.42 and the broad-market Standard and
Poor's 500 index had spiked 7.58 points (0.51 percent) to
1,487.99.


The US stock market has rocketed higher in the past week as
investors have applauded a flow of strong profit reports from
major corporations, especially from the banking sector, and
several big mergers and acquisitions.


An acquisition binge by big private equity firms, including a
record 45-billion- dollar bid for Texas energy group TXU in late
February, has also stoked shares higher since the start of the
year.


Despite Wednesday morning's champagne moment, however, some
analysts said they are now expecting a market "correction" to
occur as dark clouds continue to hover over the world's largest
economy.


"We believe it will prove to be an excuse for profit-taking and a
normal correction," said Al Goldman, a chief market strategist at
AG Edwards.


The Dow has also soared higher as concerns mount about the
housing market and rising home foreclosures as well as high
gasoline prices.


"The market showed good resilience after the disappointing
existing home sales data yesterday (Tuesday), but our comments
yesterday that the economic trends are worrisome still hold,"
said Dick Green, president at Briefing.com.


An industry association reported Tuesday that US home sales
plummeted dramatically last month, to an annualized pace of 6.12
million units, as the market endured its biggest monthly fall in
over 18 years.


Wednesday's news on the housing market was somewhat better.


The government said new home sales rebounded 2.6 percent in April
to an annualized pace of 858,000 units, but the rise was weaker-
than-forecast and new homes sales represent less of the market
than existing property sales.


But, the good news for shareholders continued as Boeing Co. said
its  first- quarter profits soared 28 percent from a year ago to
877 million dollars as new aircraft orders boomed.


The aerospace giant's shares were up 28 cents at 93.95 dollars.


Boeing's earnings beat most analysts' expectations and the
aviation behemoth also reaffirmed its financial outlook for 2007
and 2008, citing strength in its core businesses and a record
backlog of new jet orders.


Strong first quarter earnings from ConocoPhillips, Colgate-
Palmolive, PepsiCo and online retailer Amazon.com also added to
the festive mood on Wall Street, traders said.


Despite booming corporate profits, traders cautioned that the
market could still be vulnerable to oil prices which remain at
high levels. New York oil prices were up 52 cents at 65.10
dollars a barrel in late morning deals.


US stocks also remain vulnerable to global equity moves as
witnessed in late February when a sharp dive in Chinese stocks,
amid fears of an equity bubble, sent American shares into a steep
tailspin.


Bond prices fell as investors moved into stocks. The yield on the
10-year US Treasury bond rose to 4.640 percent from 4.622 percent
Tuesday and that on the 30-year bond jumped to 4.825 percent
against 4.804 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.

