

US President George W. Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe meet Thursday and Friday for talks on North Korea and Tokyo's
increasingly bold global role -- and maybe baseball, officials
say.


The White House hopes the leaders will build on a strategic
relationship that grew under Abe's predecessor, Junichiro
Koizumi, one of Bush's closest international allies and
staunchest backers of the war in Iraq.


"We are like-minded democracies pursuing a common agenda and,
again, that transcends whether it's Prime Minister Koizumi or
Prime Minister Abe," said Dennis Wilder, the US National Security
Council's top East Asia hand.


"We see Japan as our greatest strategic partner in East Asia, and
an increasingly indispensable global partner," the Bush aide told
reporters Wednesday in a preview of Abe's first visit here since
taking office last year.


Wilder said Bush would reassure Abe during their talks at the
White House and the Camp David presidential retreat about efforts
to convince North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program.


Abe has said that he will press Bush on Japanese citizens
abducted by North Korea, amid worries in Tokyo that Washington
may remove Pyongyang of its list of terrorism sponsors before the
deeply emotional issue is resolved.


"We aren't going to de-link the abductee issue from the state
sponsor of terrorism issue," Wilder said.


Japan has refused to fund an international deal to supply North
Korea with energy in exchange for its nuclear disarmament unless
there is progress on the abduction issue.


Since 2003, Washington has tied the abductee issue to its
decision to list Pyongyang among the state sponsors of terrorism
and Bush has stood strongly with Japan in that dispute.


But "the US has said it wants to lift the sanctions on North
Korea for terrorism, and Abe wants to make sure that there won't
be a de-linking," said Mike Green, a former top Bush adviser on
Asia now with the Center for Strategic and International Studies
think tank.


Bush, who famously took Koizumi to Elvis Presley's Graceland
mansion, also hopes the summit with Abe will "develop their
personal relationship further," said Wilder.


"One thing they do share is a love of baseball, and a great deal
of interest in Japan's most significant export to the United
States in the last year," said Wilder, apparently referring to
Daisuke Matsuzaka of the Boston Red Sox.


The two leaders were expected to take up other thorny issues,
like Japanese curbs on US beef imports. Democratic Senators Max
Baucus and Jon Tester, of the cattle-grazing state of Montana
want US beef on Bush and Abe's dinner menu.


"If you ask my personal recommendation, I think obviously Prime
Minister Abe ought to have a steak dinner sometime while he's
here in Washington," quipped Wilder, who declined comment on the
official dinner fare.


Bush and Abe will also discuss Tokyo's increasingly assertive
global role and may touch on World War II era disputes roiling
Japan's relations with its neighbors.


Wilder said the two leaders were not expected to make a "major
issue" of "comfort women" from all over Asia driven into brothels
by Japan's military during World War II, but said Tokyo still had
work to do on that front.


"Japan, as a modern democratic nation, needs to find a way to
place these issues behind it so it can move forward in
cooperation with its neighbors," he told reporters.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of so-
called "comfort women" into brothels across Asia.


The prime minister has since stressed he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor"
on the issue in a telephone conversation early this month,
according to the White House.


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of World War II defeat, including the
US-imposed pacifist constitution.


And he recently decided to extend by two years an air mission
flying goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended the
ground troop deployment last year.

