

Republican Senator John McCain formally confirmed on Wednesday he
is running for the White House, seeking to revive a campaign
bogged down by missteps, controversy over his support for the
Iraq war and lackluster fundraising.


"Today I announce my candidacy for president of the United
States," McCain said in Portsmouth, in the key state of New
Hampshire, considered a major testing ground for candidates
because it hosts the first party primary elections.


It was in New Hampshire that McCain, scored an upset victory
primary victory in the 2000 race, before being defeated for the
Republican nomination by George W. Bush, now in his second term
as US president.


"I'm running for president to protect our country from harm and
defeat its enemies. I'm running for president to make the
government do its job," he told a crowd in a televised speech.


A former Navy pilot held captive in Vietnam, McCain highlighted
his political and battlefield experiences.


"I  know how to fight, and I know how to make peace," the senator
said.


"I'm not the youngest candidate. But I am the most experienced,"
said McCain, 70.


Following the high-profile New Hampshire event, McCaine was
scheduled to head to South Carolina, Iowa and Nevada, also
considered key states in the race for the Republican nomination.


This is a critical moment for McCain, with opinion polls showing
he trails far behind former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. An
April 10 Gallup survey had Giuliani getting 38 percent of voter
intentions, to 16 percent for McCain.


McCain, who was still considered the favorite for the Republican
nomination at the end of last year, has suffered major setbacks
over his position on the Iraq war.


He is the Republican candidate most supportive of the war --
though he has harshly criticized the US administration's handling
of it.


"We've made mistakes, and we've paid for them," said McCain, who
strongly supports Bush's "surge" plan to send 25,000 extra troops
to Iraq to quell sectarian violence there.


His stance on Iraq contrasts with growing public calls for US
troops to return home rapidly. Earlier this month, an opinion
poll published by the Los Angeles Times showed 65 percent of
Americans disagreed with the way the war is led.


The Arizona senator is also lagging behind in campaign
fundraising.


On the first three months of the year he raised 13 million
dollars, just two million dollars short of the amount obtained by
the Giuliani campaign, but has had to spend heavily to finance
the first months of the campaign.


At the end of March, he had spent 8.4 million dollars, which left
him with 5.2 million dollars, or about half the amount available
to Giuliani and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, who
had 10.8 million dollars and 11,.9 million dollars respectively.


Earlier this month, the McCain team reorganized its fundraising
operations, saying results so far had been disappointing.


Political analysts believe McCain needs to focus his message on
issues that put him in a favorable light, including his bravery
in Vietnam where he was held prisoner for five years, and his
political reputation for independence.

