

EU lawmakers urged the bloc's leaders on Wednesday to seek the
resignation of embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz at
an upcoming EU-US summit.


In a resolution, members of the European Parliament urged the
EU's German presidency to make Wolfowitz understand that "his
resignation would be an appropriate measure" given the bank's
importance to fighting corruption.


Wolfowitz, the Pentagon's former number two and one of the
architects of the US- led invasion of Iraq, is fighting for his
job following revelations of a pay scandal involving his
girlfriend, an employee at the bank.


The lawmakers' call came ahead of an EU-US summit in Washington
on Monday.


"The World Bank has a crucial role to play in fighting
corruption. In light of the current allegations, Mr Wolfowitz has
to go," Dutch MEP Jan Wiersma told colleagues in Strasbourg
during a debate on transatlantic relations.


A day earlier Martin Schulz, leader of the parliament's socialist
group, told reporters that Wolfowitz's position was "untenable in
the middle- or long-term".


Graham Watson, leader of the liberal and democrats alliance, said
the EU negotiators "should dare to take the initiative" in
Washington.


"Our message for him must be -- it is time for you to go," he
said.


By contrast Joseph Daul, head of the biggest group in parliament,
the conservative European People's Party, did not mention
Wolfowitz in his speech.


The revelation that Wolfowitz arranged a salary worth nearly
200,000 dollars for his girlfriend Shaha Riza in 2005 has left
him open to accusations of hypocrisy as he steers a controversial
campaign against corruption in the World Bank's lending.


Despite documents that have demonstrated his intervention in
Riza's compensation, he has steadfastly refused to step down and
has instead hired a top defence lawyer, Robert Bennett, to
represent him as the bank reviews his actions.


Wolfowitz was named to the World Bank job in 2005 after being one
of the most hawkish proponents of the US war in Iraq.

