

Nearly two decades after the fall of communism, Europe's former
Soviet republics and satellites are still grappling to root out
former communist collaborators in their midst.


But even with a new law obliging some 700,000 Poles over the age
of 35 to come clean about whether they worked with the communist-
era SB secret police, critics questioned if the long-running
drive by ex-communist Europe to deal with the spectre of the past
has a hope of succeeding.


"The hearings will still be going on in 10 years," said Andrzej
Krawczyk, who was forced to resign as an aide to Polish President
Lech Kaczynski after he was accused of collaborating with the SB.


"And then, 30 years after the end of communism, will we
understand how the system worked?" said Krawczyk, who was cleared
of the charges by a Polish court on Wednesday.


In Lithuania, which like its neighbours, Estonia and Latvia, was
a Soviet republic from the end of World War II until 1991, KGB
collaborators have to confess their activities or face penalties,
including being banned from public office.


Latvia and Estonia require candidates for public office merely to
make a declaration -- called an "oath of conscience" in Estonia
-- about whether they collaborated with the KGB.


In Estonia, which claims to have laid to rest its communist past,
the identities of 1,200 people who took the "oath of conscience"
were never made public.


Others, who have been shown by ongoing investigations to have
worked with the KGB, but failed to own up, are named and shamed
in the state gazette.


In former East Germany, holders of federal and regional
government offices, lawmakers, judges, top civil servants and,
oddly, high-ranking sports officials have to submit to background
checks to see if they worked with the Stasi secret police.


The Czech Republic has a law obliging high-ranking civil servants
to obtain a certificate from the interior ministry attesting to
their clean past.


But at least one ex-collaborator with the communist-era StB
secret police has managed to skirt the law.


Former StB agent Pavol Mihal, who is now the head of the Czech
branch of international police organisation Interpol, got his
certificate by changing one letter in his first name when he
filled in the security check application.


When the ruse was found out, the interior ministry ordered the
certificates of all police chiefs around the Czech Republic to be
re-examined. Mihal's Interpol job is on the line, too.


Romania only requires public officials to swear an oath about
their communist past, but criminal charges can be brought against
anyone who lies about collaborating with the Securitate secret
police.


On the other hand, those who confess to having worked with the
Securitate risk nothing more than public ignominy.


In Germany, trying to cover up a Stasi-collaborator past could
lead to an official being sacked or forced to resign, as was the
case in September last year of the boss of the prestigious Hotel
Adlon in Berlin.


Lithuania's Raimundas Rainys, who was a lawyer for a private
company, and Antonas Gasparavicius, a barrister, lost their jobs
in 2000 and 2001 afer being exposed as former KGB agents.


Both were awarded damages in 2005 by the European Court of Human
Rights, which found that state-imposed restrictions on employing
former KGB agents in the private sector were not justified.


The body set up in Romania to run background checks on officials,
the CNSAS, has shown one government minister, several lawmakers
and a few journalists to have been collaborators. No one has been
punished, but many of the accused lost their jobs.


The control the secret police had over societies across the
communist bloc, and the inaccessibility of archives, have made
rooting out former collaborators a formidable task.


In Lithuania, more than 1,500 people have confessed to having had
contact with the KGB, but experts believe that is a fraction of
the real figure.


Some 1.3 million Securitate files have been handed over to
Romanian officials since 2005.


Latvian officials have information on just 4,000 of the 24,000
Latvians who have been identified as KGB agents, the rest
believed to be in archives that were taken to Moscow at the end
of the Soviet occupation.

