

A US Senate probe into extrajudicial killings in the Philippines
appeared biased against the Manila government and was an affront
to its sovereignty, a senior Filipino official said Friday.


Rights groups say more than 800 people have been killed since
2001 during the administration of President Gloria Arroyo, who
has vowed to take steps to end the murders of the journalists,
church leaders, political figures, human rights activists and
trade union leaders.


The Senate hearing was chaired by Senator Barbara Boxer, head of
a panel on East Asia and the Pacific, and invited experts, who
questioned Manila's commitment to stop the violence.


Boxer said it remained to be seen if Arroyo's pledge to solve the
killings and stop the violence would be "followed by real and
tangible actions."


Other experts suggested that military aid to the Philippines, a
key US ally in Southeast Asia, could be affected if the murders
were not solved.


But Justice Secretary Raul Gonzalez stressed that Arroyo had
already ordered the creation of special courts to handle the
cases as well as telling the military to probe allegations that
rogue soldiers were behind many of the deaths.


He said Boxer's comment was biased and was "already in effect
making judgment that our efforts are not sincere."


Reacting to a possible cut in aid due to the killings, Gonzales
said: "That is blackmail to me."


Gonzalez stressed on local television that the Philippines was a
sovereign country, "not a vassal of anyone."


He also dismissed the US probe as "posturing by one senator who
wants her name in the headlines for international consumption."


Gonzalez stressed that Washington military aid had helped
professionalise the Philippine armed forces, which in turn have
been crucial in the Southeast Asian front of President George W.
Bush's global war on terrorism.


US-trained Filipino troops have in recent months killed the two
top leaders of the Abu Sayyaf, an Al Qaeda-linked group blamed
for the kidnapping and deaths of two Americans seized in 2001.


The US Senate hearing came after special UN Human Rights
Commission rapporteur Philip Alston blamed military personnel for
most of the killings and called for a thorough investigation to
bring the culprits to justice.


An independent commission set up by President Arroyo also said
there was circumstantial evidence linking troops to the killings.


Philippine rights groups also testified before the US Senate
panel


They claim the killings were part of a state policy to silence
Arroyo's critics. The military has officially denied it has had
anything to do with the deaths, and instead blames an internal
purge by communist guerrillas.

