

A senior figure at the World Jewish Congress has left the
organization without explanation, according to an internal memo,
apparently after being dismissed in an internal feud.


Israel Singer, a former chairman of the organization who was
barred from holding any financial role in the congress last year
after the group came under government investigation, was believed
to have been ousted Wednesday.


"Israel Singer is no longer associated with the World Jewish
Congress or any of its affiliates," the WJC Review said in its
edition dated March 14.


"For his work on behalf of Soviet Jewry ... the Jewish world owes
Israel Singer a tremendous debt of gratitude," it added.


A source at the organization said the group would not comment on
the reasons for Singer's departure due to legal reasons.


Israeli newspaper Haaretz said the news was delivered to Singer
by congress President Edgar Bronfman in a conference call and
that Singer was not given the opportunity to speak. The paper
quoted associates of Singer as saying he was shocked by the news.


It described Singer as "a leading figure in the Jewish world for
the past 30 years" and said the latest development "marks an all-
time low in the history of the organization."


The World Jewish Congress came under investigation by New York's
then attorney, Eliot Spitzer, in late 2004 after a former WJC
vice president, Isi Leibler, leveled charges of financial
irregularities.


While Spitzer's report concluded there was no evidence to suggest
anyone at the WJC had misappropriated, embezzled or stolen money,
it criticized a lack of financial controls and the failure to
keep adequate records of fund-raising.


It barred Singer from any future connection with the "financial
management, supervision or oversight of fund-raising activities"
of the group.


Singer resigned as chairman in early 2006, before the Spitzer
report was published. He was then appointed to chair the group's
Policy Council, an advisory body.


The main complaint against the WJC focused on a series of money
transfers totaling 1.2 million dollars from New York to a Swiss
account and then to a London account.


The WJC was founded in 1936 to foster unity among Jewish people
and fight the persecution in Nazi Germany. After the war, the
organization became a leading force in obtaining restitution for
victims of the Holocaust.

