

A trio of former African club giants face shock elimination from
the African Confederation Cup this weekend.


Mouloudia Alger of Algeria and Daring Club Motema Pembe of the
Democratic Republic of Congo must overhaul three-goal deficits in
second round, second  leg qualifiers.


And Al-Merreikh of Sudan also face an uphill struggle in the
second-tier African Football Confederation (CAF) club competition
after suffering a 2-0 loss to CotonTchad in Chad two weeks ago.


Mouloudia became the first Algerian winners of the African
Champions Cup in 1976 when they wiped out a three-goal first-leg
defeat by title holders Hafia of Guinea before winning a penalty
shootout.


Merreikh (1989) and Motema Pembe (1994) are former holders of the
African Cup Winners Cup, which was discontinued with the CAF Cup
when the African Confederation Cup kicked off three years ago.


Modelled on the European UEFA Cup and offering a 400,000-dollar
first prize, the African Confederation Cup is open to national
cup winners plus third-placed league teams from 12 countries
selected on merit.


Mouloudia, Motema Pembe, Merreikh, Ismailia of Egypt, Union
Douala of Cameroon and Club Sportif Sfaxien of Tunisia stood out
in the field as all  have won at least one CAF competition.


However, Mouloudia lost not only the match but also their heads
when crashing 3-0 to African rookies Kwara United in Nigeria with
three of the Algerian outfit sent off.


An automatic one-match ban means the trio are ruled out of the
return match in Algiers amid concerns of a hostile reception for
the Nigerians from some of the most partisan football supporters
on the continent.


Akombo Ukeyima was the Kwara first-leg hero, scoring in each half
and a foul on the international unknown led to the free kick
which Chukwuma Akabueze converted in the south-western state
capital of Ilorin.


Motema Pembe could not contain goal-hungry African newcomers
Benfica Luanda in Angola when losing 4-1 and it is doubtful that
they can recover despite the advantage of playing in Kinshasa,
another hotbed of African football fervour.


Benfica made their intentions clear in the opening round,
thrashing San Pedro Claver of Equatorial Guinea 7-1 on aggregate,
and a third-round   showdown with Astres Douala of Cameroon
beckons next month.


Merreikh hired veteran German coach Otto Pfister believing their
15,000-dollar-a-month investment would reap handsome rewards and
the thought that they might fail to African minnows CotonTchad
was not entertained.


But on a hard, dry N'Djamena pitch resembling the surface of the
moon, the experienced Sudanese had no answer to a brace of first-
half goals from Esai Djikeloum.


Ismailia, whose 1969 African Champions Cup triumph was the first
by an Egyptian club, entertain Ajesaia of Madagascar without
captain Mohsen Salah Abougreisha, whose criticism of the team led
to him being transfer listed.


Long-serving Abougreisha scored in the 2-2 first-leg draw, with
the north Africans also grateful to experienced goalkeeper
Mohammed Sobhi, who saved a last-minute penalty on the vast
Indian Ocean island.


The Union Douala class of 2007 pales when compared with those who
won the 1979 Champions Cup and 1981 Cup Winners Cup, but progress
to the next round should be a formality after outclassing Textil
Pungue 3-0 in Mozambique.


Sfaxien, unlucky Champions League runners-up to Al-Ahly of Egypt
last year, are equally well placed to progress having built a 3-1
advantage over Satellite in Guinea.

