

Cuba's ailing President Fidel Castro is recovering steadily and
will be in "perfect condition" to be reelected president next
year, parliamentary leader Ricardo Alarcon said Thursday.


"I am certain he will be in perfect condition to continue
assuming this responsibility," Alarcon told journalists when
asked if Castro, who stepped aside seven months ago after
surgery, would renew his mandate as Cuba's leader in 2008.


Alarcon, one of Castro's close aides, made the statement during a
meeting held to prepare the March election of deputies who will
then name the communist-run island's head of state.


Castro, 80, who led Cuba since its 1959 revolution, handed over
power temporarily to his brother Raul, 75, on July 31 after
undergoing intestinal surgery.


Cuban authorities have since released few details of the veteran
revolutionary leader's exact condition, but insist he has been
recovering steadily.


"I have been in contact with him a lot ... and the process of
recovery continues going very well," Alarcon told journalists.


He stressed, though, that it was necessary for Raul, Cuba's
defense minister and longtime number two, to remain at the helm
for the time being.


But Alarcon also insisted that did not mean Fidel Castro was out
of the loop.


"Fidel has been and is very involved, very connected, very active
in the important decisions that have been taken in the country,"
he said.


He acknowledged though that the longtime Cuban leader could not
be as involved as in the past, "since he has to devote much of
his time to his physical recovery."


Alarcon said that how long it takes Castro to resume his full
functions "depends on he and his doctors."


Alarcon was presiding over the meeting to prepare for the March
2008 election of deputies who will then choose the president of
the Council of State, the position held by Castro since 1976,
when replaced the previous position of prime minister.


Since Castro stepped aside in July, he has appeared six times in
film footage to show he was recuperating, the most recent on
January 30.


In a transcript of a telephone conversation published by Cuba's
official Granma daily on Wednesday, Castro told his friend
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez he felt "very well."


Chavez also suggested Castro would soon be ready to resume his
activities and hinted at a holding meeting together with
Bolivia's leftist president Evo Morales in April.


The Venezuelan leader has visited Castro, and talked to him on
the telephone, on several occasions since July.


Video footage of a meeting the two held in January showed Castro
looking healthier and more alert than he did the previous five
times pictures of him were broadcast by Cuban state media, though
he appeared to have difficulty talking.

