

American swimming superstar Michael Phelps plans to replicate the
ambitious eight-event programme he swam at the Athens Olympics at
next week's world championships here.


Phelps, 21, has improved his world-record times in the 200m
individual medley and 200m butterfly and is treating the
Melbourne meet as a major rehearsal for next year's Beijing
Games.


"This definitely sets things up for next year, just sort of puts
things in perspective if my body can handle things like I could
four years ago, and I think I can," Phelps told Friday's The
Australian newspaper.


His coach Bob Bowman is convinced Phelps, winner of six gold
medals and two bronzes at the 2004 Athens Games and owner of
three world records, will produce an explosive performance in
Melbourne as a result of a new strength training programme.


"It seems to be really paying dividends because he hasn't really
lost any endurance but he's gained strength and speed which I
think will help move him to the next level," Bowman told the
newspaper.


US team coach John Collins said his team is accustomed to
winning, heading into the world championships.


Collins pointed to the rivalry between the teams from Australia
and the United States, the two powerful swimming nations.


"It's a big rivalry, and it's a big challenge, but that's why
we're here. There's gonna be some great match-ups. Leisel
(Jones), Libby (Lenton) and Jessicah (Schipper), if they're on
their game, they're gonna be really tough to beat," Collins told
reporters.


But he described his team as experienced and used to success.


"We have some aces as well, and we're hoping that we can put
things together and sort out the meet in the first day," he said.


Apart from Phelps, Aaron Peirsol is a three-time Olympic gold
medallist and world record holder and Natalie Coughlin won five
medals in Athens.


Collins earmarked 14-year-old Elizabeth Beisel, in her first
international meet, as a "budding superstar" who could be the
story of these championships.


"I think you'll see her show up pretty well here," he said.


The swimming programme at the world championships gets underway
on March 25.

