

This weekend's Australian Grand Prix is being held against a
backdrop of questions over its future with reports the occasion
will lose 30 million dollars (24 million USD).


Concerns have focused on dwindling crowds, the loss of popular V8
Supercars support race, and whether the Victorian government-
backed event is value-for- money for taxpayers.


Melbourne is staging its 12th Grand Prix since pinching the race
from rival Adelaide, but some economists say rising costs and
falling attendances mean the Grand Prix has a limited life-span
in Melbourne.


One economist estimated the race will lose more than 230 million
dollars (180 million USD) by the time the current contract
expires in 2010.


But race organisers and state government ministers insist that
the bottom line is not the only measure of the race's importance
to Victoria.


They point to three economic reports compiled on the Australian
Grand Prix Corporation's behalf, analysing the 1996, 2000 and
2005 events.


Those reports show what is termed as a gross economic benefit to
the state of Victoria of 95.6 million dollars in 1996, 130.7
million dollars in 2000 and 174.8 million dollars in 2005.


The last report found the event enticed over 8,000 international
visitors to the city and almost 20,000 from other parts of
Australia each year.


Australian Grand Prix Corporation chairman Ron Walker said the
race is watched on television by 360 million people in 132
nations, generating about 100 million dollars (78 million USD).


"If you had to advertise Melbourne to 360 million people in 132
countries, it would cost you 100 million dollars," he said.


"In 10 years of Formula One racing in Melbourne it is estimated
that the event has generated over one billion dollars in economic
benefit.


"The Grand Prix has put Melbourne on the map globally and year
after year it provides unquestionable tourism and promotional
benefits for the state of Victoria."


But some economists disagree, with one, Francis Grey, telling The
Age newspaper: "Economically, the race is a loser, every year.


"It's been a loser since the beginning, and the losses are only
growing larger. Victorians are poorer as a result of having this
race."


Monash University economics professor Peter Forsyth wrote in a
2006 paper saying that "the economic impacts and net benefits of
events, if rigorously assessed, are very much lower than those
invariably claimed.


"The techniques of analysis widely used have inherent biases,
which lead to overstatement of impacts on output and jobs."


"As a result," wrote Forsyth, "there is likely to be
misallocation of events funding and excessive overall spending in
promoting events."


While the the Australian Grand Prix has never returned a profit
in Melbourne and has grown more expensive each year, Formula One
supremo Bernie Ecclestone receives a licence fee that increases
every race and is widely reported as being currently 20 million
dollars, The Age said.

