

Sony announced on Thursday that its PlayStation 3 video game
consoles will be enhanced to join a supercomputing network
researching causes of cancer, Alzheimer's and other incurable
diseases.


The Japanese electronics titan said a software update that will
be available by the end of March will enable users to devote
their consoles' idle time to a Stanford University quest for
diseases caused by "misfolded" proteins.


Such diseases include Parkinson's, mad cow, Alzheimer's,
Huntington's and some forms of cancer, according to Stanford
associate professor Vijay Pande, leader of the "Folding@home"
project.


PlayStation 3 console software will let users click on a
"Folding@home" icon on their television screens to have their
machines devote their computing power to medical research
whenever games aren't being played.


The program harnesses idle time of Internet-linked home computers
to use the combined power to perform in months protein-folding
simulations that would take a single machine decades to complete.


Processors in PlayStation 3 computers are approximately 10 times
faster than chips in typical personal computers so adding the
consoles to the "folding at home" network should boost simulation
speeds, Sony said.


"Millions of users have experienced the power of PS3
entertainment; now they can utilize that exceptional computing
power to help fight diseases," said Sony Computer Entertainment
chief technical officer Masayuki Chatani.


"PCs have been the only option for scientists, but now, they have
a new, more powerful tool -- PS3."


Sony said it planned to make the gaming consoles compatible with
other medical, social, or environmental distributed-computing
research efforts.


"We're thrilled," Pande said at a press conference with Sony
executives at the Stanford campus in Palo Alto, California.


"With PS3 now part of our network, we will be able to address
questions previously considered impossible to tackle
computationally, with the goal of finding cures to some of the
world's most life-threatening diseases."


In perhaps the most well known distributed-computing project,
researchers at the Berkeley campus of the University of
California launched SETI@home in 1999 to help search for messages
beamed from space.


More than five million personal computers in countries around the
world are combined in a network that uses excess computing power
to study radio telescope signals gathered by the Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI).


Sony said it will make PlayStation 3 compatible with a variety of
medical, social and environmental research efforts.

