

Gordon Strachan has challenged his Celtic players to be more
ruthless in front of goal to bounce back from their Old Firm
defeat by beating Falkirk on Sunday.


Last weekend the Scottish Premier League champions-elect
dominated for the first 50 minutes at home to Rangers before
going behind to Ugo Ehiogu's overhead kick.


This was the only goal of the game and robbed Celtic of the
opportunity of clinching their second consecutive SPL title
against Falkirk.


Strachan admits his side were punished for wasting their goal
scoring opportunities against Rangers and has warned his players
they must improve their finishing on Sunday.


The Celtic boss said: "We always have it tough and we will always
struggle until we start to convert some of our chances.


"We played well for the first 50 minutes against Rangers until
the goal went in but we only have ourselves to blame for the
result. Some of our decision making in front of goal was poor and
we need to improve in that aspect.


"On Sunday Falkirk will be looking to bounce back from their
defeat to Hibs but we should have everyone back and firing on all
cylinders.


"The result will have a lot to do with how we do as a team and we
will determine our own future."


Celtic will be odds on favourite to secure an away victory
against eighth placed Falkirk, who have lost their last eight
games.


However the Bairns boss John Hughes believes the state of the
Falkirk stadium pitch could help his men cause an upset.


He said: "I have the greatest respect for Celtic, Gordon Strachan
and his coaching staff and from the way they play you can see
they do a lot of work on the training field.


"Both sides like to play good football but the surface is going
to make it difficult to play a slick, slick game. But we are
looking forward to it, will give it a go and enjoy it."


On Saturday Rangers and Aberdeen will face each other at Ibrox in
a game which could go a long way to deciding who joins Celtic in
the Champions League next season.


While Walter Smith's Gers are in the driving seat, four points
ahead of the third placed Dons, a victory for Jimmy Calderwood's
side would keep the contest for the runners-up spot open.


History is firmly on the side of Rangers with Aberdeen failing to
win at Ibrox for almost 16 years when goals from Eoin Jess and
Brian Grant handed the Dons a 2-1 victory back in September 1991.


However Aberdeen will be hoping to capitalise on any European
hangover Rangers are perhaps suffering after their 1-0 defeat in
Spain at the hands of Osasuna to drop out of the UEFA Cup 2-1 on
aggregate.


Fourth-placed Hearts on 48 points, six behind Aberdeen, will hope
to win at home to Dundee United to keep up their ambitions of
finishing third to clinch a UEFA Cup spot for next season.


The Tynecastle team will again be under the guidance of Ukraine-
born Anatoly Korobochka, who is acting as interim head coach in
the absence of Valdas Ivanauskas - who is said by Hearts to be
away on "football business."


In the remaining SPL game of the weekend  - with Hibs and
Kilmarnock playing in the league cup final on Sunday - seventh-
placed Inverness Caledonian Thistle are at home to Dunfermline,
who rooted to the bottom of the table nine points adrift of
second bottom St Mirren.


Fixtures (1500 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Hearts v Dundee United, Inverness Caledonian Thistle v
Dunfermline, Rangers v Aberdeen.


Sunday


Falkirk v Celtic (1300 GMT)

