

Soldiers have helped fan deadly unrest in southern Thailand, a
separatist spokesman was quoted as saying Friday.


"There have been instances where militants were blamed for 'tahan
pran's' misdeeds," Abu Najhan was quoted as saying in Malaysia's
The Star newspaper.


He said 'tahan pran' are undisciplined Thai soldiers who usually
sport long hair.


"'Tahan pran' are troublemakers," Najhan was quoted as saying.


The newspaper identified him as the executive member of the
Patani United Liberation Organisation and said he was also
speaking for four other separatist groups.


Thailand's army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said
recently that Malaysia had helped the kingdom make some progress
in opening talks with Islamic separatists along their shared
border.


But Thai government officials have long admitted they do not know
exactly whom to talk to. The insurgents never claim
responsibility for their attacks or make any specific demands.


An older generation of rebel leaders have expressed a willingness
to talk, but have shown little control over the young fighters on
the ground.


"The government has been unable to identify the leadership of the
insurgency. Indeed, it is not clear that there even exists an
overall leadership capable of controlling the various groups
committing the violence," a report by the International Crisis
Group, an independent group of researchers working to resolve
conflict, said Thursday.


It said Thailand must balance a military response with ongoing
efforts to launch peace talks.


Surayud and Malaysian counterpart Abdullah Ahmad Badawi agreed
last month to boost cooperation in a bid to end separatist unrest
in the south of the majority Buddhist kingdom.


Malaysia has tightened border security since the leaders met but
despite their improved cooperation, violence has worsened.


Southern Thailand, which was once an autonomous Malay sultanate,
has a long history of separatist unrest. The latest conflict
erupted three years ago and has claimed about 2,000 lives.

