

A US lawmaker called on leaders of the South Pacific islands to
skip their scheduled meeting in Washington in May if President
George W. Bush does not host them for talks in the White House.


Eni Faleomavaega, the Democratic Representative from American
Samoa, said he was made to understand that a White House meeting
was not in the itinerary of their trip, confined so far to talks
with senior officials.


Noting that the leaders of the tiny Pacific island states were
hosted to special summits by leaders of France, China and Japan
recently, he said it would be "embarrassing" if Bush did not meet
with them and "give them that same courtesy."


"There seems to be tremendous interest (towards the South Pacific
islands) certainly by other nations in the world except our own
-- sad to say but this is what is happening," Faleomavaega
lamented, criticizing US foreign policy towards the Pacific
islands, where China is stamping its influence.


"If there is no opportunity for these heads of government to meet
with the president, I will make my strongest recommendation that
they should not come to Washington D.C.," he told a Congressional
hearing on US policy towards the South Pacific island nations and
Australia and New Zealand.


"Because it would be an embarrassment not only for our own
country but also to the heads of governments of the island
countries," the Congressman continued.


The US State Department and the East-West Center, a Hawaii-based
think tank, will host a Pacific Island Conference of Leaders in
Washington on May 7-8.


The heads of government of 23 Pacific states and territories,
including US territories, have been invited to attend the
meeting, that would include sessions with senior officials from
the departments of state and defense as well as the office of the
US Trade Representative.


"I think it is not worthy of the island leaders of being put in
this kind of a situation where they meet only with desk officers
or somebody else in the bureaucracy," Faleomavaega said.


Glyn Davies, the deputy assistant secretary of state, told the
Congressman at the hearing that he would raise his concerns with
the administration.


Bush had met the Pacific leaders during his first term in office
and "would raise the profile of the US role in the region" when
he attends a summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC) forum in Sydney in September, he said.


The State Department, he said, was working hard to increase US
engagement in the Pacific in an attempt to reverse the trend of
inadequate diplomatic attention or development assistance to the
Pacific islands in the 1990s.


"While there is no immediate prospect of greatly increased budget
resources, we believe we can reverse this trend and are working
hard to increase US engagement in the Pacific," he said.


The United States was labeling 2007 "the year of the Pacific" and
developing a "whole of government" approach with various state
agencies set to expand  their presence and activities in the
region, Davies said.


He also expressed concern over the competition between China and
Taiwan for diplomatic links with Pacific island states, saying it
was "undermining good governance."


"To the extent that the PRC (China) and Taiwan engage in
'checkbook diplomacy' to gain favor with Pacific leaders, the
political process in those countries will be distorted," he said.


The United States is pressing China, Taiwan and all donor states
to use foreign aid "in a manner that enhances transparency and
promotes good governance, and we are pleased at signs of
progress," he said.


Davies cited recent events in the South Pacific, such as the
military coup in Fiji and riots in the Solomon Islands and Tonga,
saying they "have demonstrated both the challenges it faces and
the importance of strong US engagement."

