

French star Nicolas Anelka believes Bolton can blow the
Premiership title race wide open ahead of a two week break in the
league calendar by defeating Manchester United at Old Trafford on
Saturday.


Sir Alex Ferguson's treble-chasing leaders, six points clear at
the summit with nine games remaining, are favourites to be
crowned champions of England for the first time in four years.


Reigning champions Chelsea, United's closest rivals, have been
playing catch-up most of the season and must rely on Ferguson's
side slipping up if the London club is to have any chance of
winning the title for the third successive season.


Yet United, who are also still in the hunt for Champions League
and FA Cup glory, have won their last five league games and
require seven more victories and one draw to clinch a ninth title
in 15 seasons.


However, Bolton's French striker Anelka believes his side is
capable of springing a surprise win - despite losing their last
two league games.


"Big teams like United don't enjoy playing against us because we
give them no time to settle on the ball," said Anelka, who has
scored nine times in 26 top- flight starts since signing from
Fenerbahce last August for a club record eight million pounds.


"We still have to play Chelsea after Manchester United and that
is going to be very hard to get a result. But anything is
possible at Bolton."


Bolton have a good incentive to mark Sam Allardyce's 300th league
game in charge of the club with a win.


Despite back-to-back defeats, they remain in a healthy position
to qualify for next season's UEFA Cup, fifth in the table with a
four-point cushion over sixth- placed Everton.


Ferguson, whose side face Middlesbrough in an FA Cup quarter-
final replay on Monday, is desperate for his side to sign off on
a winning note in their last Premiership game until March 31.


He could use the visit of Bolton to give Alan Smith his first
Premiership game since breaking his leg and dislocating his ankle
13 months ago.


With Louis Saha and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer injured, and Henrik
Larsson back in Sweden, Ferguson has hinted that former Leeds
striker Smith will be asked to take some of the striking burden
off Wayne Rooney.


"There is a big month coming up now and I want to be involved,"
said Smith, now fully recovered and itching to join United's race
for the title.


"As soon as I suffered the injury, I set myself three goals. The
first was to get myself fit, the second was to get back into the
team and the third was to win more international honours.


"Physically, I am probably fitter than I have ever been in my
life. I am confident about getting a chance between now and the
end of the season and when I do, it is up to me to take it."


After enjoying a relatively injury-free first half of the
campaign, fitness problems are starting to bite for United.


As well as Solskjaer and Saha, Darren Fletcher and the suspended
Paul Scholes are also out of Saturday's game. Fletcher, who
escaped injury after being involved in a car crash near United's
training ground on Wednesday, is currently sidelined with an
ankle problem.


Dutch keeper Edwin van der Sar is also a definite absentee while
Mikael Silvestre has been ruled out for the season after it was
confirmed he required surgery to the right shoulder he dislocated
against Lille.


Better news for Ferguson is that Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic
should be fit after missing Tuesday night's UEFA charity game
with rib and nasal problems respectively.

