

Growing demand for mega-cruiseships is causing increasing
headaches for port authorities in major tourist destinations
struggling to cope with the ever- larger vessels.


For one, there's the cost of adapting ports to accommodate the
floating giants, according to industry experts who gathered this
week at the Seatrade Cruise Shipping conference in Miami Beach,
Florida.


St. Maarten tourism commissioner Theo Heyliger, summed up the
problem in a few words: "mega-ships for mega-ports for mega-
bucks. That's what it costs."


He pointed out that authorities in Saint Maarten, the Dutch side
of an 95 square kilometer (37 square mile) island shared with
France, had barely completed a new cruise terminal in 2000, when
they went back to the drawing board to design another port to
accommodate the larger ships.


Bill Johnson, who heads the Port of Miami, says he needs 500
million dollars just to upgrade the cruise-ship facilities at the
port, which last year handled 3.7 million passengers.


But bigger ports alone are not enough to ease the headache as a
growing number of disembarking passengers strain the
infrastructure of ports-of-call.


In Saint Maarten, for example, four mega-ships simultaneously
offloading 10,000 tourists -- or one fourth of the territory's
population -- would cause gridlock on the roads that would be
"just too hard to handle," said Heyliger.


In Miami, the port of departure for many Caribbean cruises,
Johnson said authorities would have to spend about one billion
dollars on a new tunnel in order to cope with the additional road
traffic.


With demand for larger ships showing no sign of flagging,
industry officials say such investments are crucial if cruise
ship destinations want to remain competitive and keep cashing in
on the lucrative business.


Demand for the mega-ships shows no signs of flagging as cruise
lines respond to increasing demand for on-board activities by
offering such amenities as climbing walls, surfing pools and even
ice-skating rinks.


"There is a trend, that's obvious ... believe me if they make
money, they'll order more," said Luis Ajamil, of the BA firm that
builds passenger terminals.


Royal Caribbean is already readying to break the record for the
world's largest cruise ship it set when it launched the "Freedom
of the Seas" last year. The 5,400-passenger "Genesis" should take
to the seas in 2009.


The supersizing fever has also spread to the luxury yacht
industry, which is experiencing rising demand for super-yachts
that fetch in the region of 20 million dollars each.


The US subsidiary of Dutch luxury yacht builder Feadship, for
example, says it received 435 orders for ships of over 30 meters
(100 feet) in length last year, up from 87 in 1998. Feadship
America says it has an average wait of three years for delivery
of ships ordered by its well-heeled clients.


"I think it's frequently an issue of size relating to ego," said
Larry Pimentel, chairman of Seadream, which operates two luxury
mega-yachts.

