

Last year's world champion Fernando Alonso, firmly in the
spotlight now Michael Schumacher has retired, believes his new
team McLaren has the right mindset to dominate Formula One.


Alonso switched teams to McLaren after two seasons with world
constructors champions Renault and is expected to restore the
once-mighty McLaren to the top of F1 after nine years without a
world title.


The Spaniard gets his chance to set the standard for McLaren in
Sunday's season- opening Australian Grand Prix around the Albert
Park street-circuit on the southern fringes of Melbourne's CBD.


There is a belief in F1 circles that if McLaren can produce a
fast, reliable car for Alonso then they will win this year's
world drivers' and constructors' titles ahead of Renault and
Ferrari.


Ferrari are nominal favourites heading into the Melbourne race
based on winter testing with Brazilian Felipe Massa producing the
fastest times along with new teammate Kimi Raikkonen.


That was also the case this time last year with Ferrari quickest
in testing, but when it came to the races, Renault got the jump,
winning the season's opening three races, Alonso claiming two of
them, before seven-times world champion Schumacher won Ferrari's
first race at San Marino.


Now Alonso, the winner of 15 of his 87 GPs, is behind the McLaren
wheel and from what he has seen the well-funded British team are
on target to make a big noise in this season's F1.


"The McLaren team has a huge potential. They are very
professional people, they are good in their job and everything is
well organised and everyone is pretty focused," Alonso, 25, said.


"We have plenty of sponsors this year to help us, and all this
atmosphere to try and win everything. And with all the
facilities, I think we should be competitive enough to win many
championships.


"Now it's up to us to take all this potential into race
victories."


As if to bear that out, Alonso was quickest in opening practice
Friday ahead of Massa's Ferrari with the Renaults of Giancarlo
Fisichella and Heikki Kovalainen over two seconds slower.


Massa, 25, goes into Sunday's race the form driver having won the
last 2006 race in his native Brazil ahead of Alonso, he has
played downs claims he should be this weekend's race favourite
based on his sizzling off-season testing times.


The Brazilian finished four of the final six days of preparations
in Bahrain at the top of the timesheets and broke the track's lap
record on the last day of testing.


"I don't feel the favourite and I will never feel being the
favourite, because you need to do the job day by day," Massa
said.


"Many things can change very quickly and the most important thing
is to keep working hard, keep your feet on the ground, and try to
do the job.


"There's 17 races still to go, starting this weekend, and doing
my job is the most important thing for me."


Alonso may be gone, but Renault are still the reigning world
champion team and have a highly-prized technical outfit backing
their drivers, led by head engineer Pat Symonds.


Renault edged out Ferrari by five points for last year's
championship and their reliability with points in all but one
race in last year's championship make them a formidable opponent.


But it remains to be seen whether 34-year-old Fisichella, a
winner of just three of his 177 GPs, and 25-year-old rookie
Kovalainen can fill the void created by Alonso's departure.


"It's one of my favourite circuits, and I have very good memories
after my win here in 2005," Fisichella said.


"The R27 (car) is an evolution of the R26 and the R25, both of
which were always quick in Melbourne.


"We have a good baseline, and lots of potential in the car. We
have worked hard this winter to be able to fight with the front-
runners at the start of the year."

