

California on Thursday advanced its 2008 presidential primary
elections to February 5, heralding a potential mass move by other
states that could alter the dynamics of the race for the White
House.


Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed an order switching the
election of state delegates to the Democratic and Republican
nominating conventions from June to near the top of next year's
political calendar.


The western state could be joined by nearly two dozen other
states on February 5 on a "Super Duper Tuesday" for nominating
contests nine months before the November 4 election itself.


The aim was to give the most populous US state more clout in a
process traditionally dominated by first-in-the-nation party
caucuses in the midwestern state of Iowa and a primary in the
eastern state of New Hampshire.


"Making California important again in presidential nominating
politics is an important step toward restoring voters' confidence
in government," Schwarzenegger said.


"And it means our issues will get their due respect along the
campaign trail, and then in Washington," said the former
Hollywood actor, who has governed California since 2003.


Analysts said the date change would oblige presidential
candidates to actively campaign in California instead of viewing
the state primarily as a source of fund-raising for primary
contests elsewhere.


But California's move could also signal a seismic change in the
nature of the nominating battle for both parties, with 22 other
states adopting or considering February 5 for their own
primaries.


Among those mulling moving their races toward the head of the
primary calendar, according to the National Association of
Secretaries of State, are heavyweights such as Texas, New York,
Florida, Illinois and Michigan.


Most experts say the 2008 presidential nominating races may well
play out over an electoral chessboard like no other in the
country's political history.


But there is far less agreement on the strategic implications of
the shifting timeframe.


Some speculate it would strengthen the hand of frontrunners such
as Democratic Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, or
former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and Senator John McCain
on the Republican side.


A front-loaded primary schedule, the theory goes, would benefit
those who have succeeded in accumulated massive campaign funds to
pay for advertising in expensive markets such as California or
New York.


And an early "Super Duper Tuesday," with so many delegates at
stake in one go, could enable the top contenders to deliver a
knockout blow to any would-be dark horses vying for the
nominations.


But other analysts suggest a new setup could prolong the
candidate-selection process, particularly if the initial wave of
primaries produces no clear-cut leader in the delegate count.


This could also encourage additional presidential aspirants to
enter the fray as compromise candidates capable of ending the
logjam.


The question remained what impact a new schedule would have on
Iowa and New Hampshire, which have long basked in their role as
the early shapers of the presidential race and have resisted
attempts to dislodge them.


The Iowa caucuses, party gatherings across the state that hold
non-binding votes on their presidential preferences, are to be
held on January 14. New Hampshire's statewide primaries are so
far slated for January 22.


Some experts said holding nearly two dozen primaries a mere two
weeks later could dilute the impact of Iowa and New Hampshire.


Others said the states could become even more critical in
providing initial signs of a bandwagon building behind a
candidate before the flurry of primary contests on February 5.

