

Barcelona returned to the top of the Spanish first division last
weekend after their mesmerizing 3-3 draw with rivals Real Madrid
and aim to consolidate pole position at Recreativo Huelva on
Sunday.


"I still think we are going to win the league and we could add
the Spanish Cup as well. This double will partly make up for
being eliminated from the Champions League," said Barca's Leonel
Messi on Thursday.


Messi scored all three of Barcelona's goals against Real and the
spotlight will be on him to see whether he can shine again after
a week when he has been dubbed almost daily as the New Maradona.


Recreativo, Spain's oldest club although only three of their 118
years in existence have been spent in the top flight, are ninth
and could prove to be a handful for the stuttering Spanish
champions.


Away from home Barca have rarely been convincing this season and
Recreativo have two accomplished trouble-makers in the shape of
strikers Florent Sinama-Pongolle and Ikechuckwu Uche.


Sinama-Pongolle has thrived since arriving last summer on loan
from Liverpool and, after scoring nine goals so far this season,
the Frenchman is looking to make his move permanent rather than
return to Anfield.


After his display in Recreativo's 1-1 draw at Getafe last Sunday,
Uche was described by one Spanish newspaper as, "the difference
between Recreativo being contenders for Europe next season and
being candidates for relegation."


Second-placed Sevilla will be hoping that their near-neighbours
can do them a favour against Barcelona and leave the door open
for themselves to return to the top with a win against struggling
Celta Vigo on Sunday.


Sevilla coach Juande Ramos was heard for the first time this week
to comment that their grueling schedule in La Liga, and also
reaching the last eight of the Spanish Cup and last 16 of the
UEFA Cup, is catching up with them.


"We need to recover a bit of our freshness, including Fredi
Kanoute. When Kanoute struggles, we lose some of our danger in
front of goal," admitted Ramos, referring to the Spanish first
division's leading scorer with 18 goals.


Celta, just one point and two places away from the relegation
zone, have seven players facing fitness tests after their
bruising UEFA Cup loss to Werder Bermen on Wednesday.


To make matters worse, midfielder Pablo Garcia, one of Celta's
few impressive players in recent weeks, is also suspended.


Valencia are third, just three points away from the leading pair,
and play host to Racing Santander on Saturday.


The inferior goal difference of the 2002 and 2004 champions means
that it is all-but-mathematically impossible for them to take
over at the top this week but they still have their sights on a
third La Liga crown in six years.


Real Madrid are fourth, two points behind Valencia, and are out
for a confidence-boosting win against relegation-threatened
Gimnastic Tarragona on Sunday.


However, emphasizing either the equality or mediocrity of the
Spanish first division this season depending on your view, Real
will not be relishing playing host to the tenacious Catalan club.


Gimnastic may be languishing just one place off the bottom of the
Spanish first division but they have produced a number of
fighting performances in recent weeks and beat Sevilla 1-0 last
Sunday.


By contrast, Real have crashed three times at home this season in
their legendary Santiago Bernabeu stadium and two of those
defeats have been to apparently weak opponents Celta and Levante.


Both sides will be without key men through suspension.


In addition to an injury list which includes David Beckham and
Roberto Carlos, Real's Spanish international defender Sergio
Ramos is absent while Gimnastic midfielder Angel Morales will
have to stay at home.


Saturday (Kick off in GMT)


Valencia v Racing Santander (1700)


Real Mallorca v Real Betis (1900)


Recreativo Huelva v Barcelona (1900)


Athletic Bilbao v Osasuna (2100)


Sunday


Deportivo La Coruna v Getafe (1600)


Espanyol v Levante (1600)


Villarreal v Real Sociedad (1600)


Real Zaragoza v Atletico Madrid (2100)


Real Madrid v Gimnastic Tarragona (1800)


Sevilla v Celta Vigo (2000)

