

Ministers from 13 nations responsible for most of the world's
greenhouse gas pollution were meeting near Berlin on Friday to
explore common ground on tackling the crisis of global warming.


The meeting at Cecilienhof, the chateau where the historic 1945
Potsdam conference took place, gathers environment ministers from
the Group of Eight (G8) countries and five major developing
nations: Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South Africa.


Together, their economies account for more than two-thirds of the
world's carbon emissions -- the invisible gases that trap heat
from the Sun and threaten havoc with the planet's delicate
climate system.


Germany, hosts of the G8, hope the talks, ending on Saturday, can
break the gridlock on a global deal for reducing the pollution to
safer levels.


The goal here is to pave the way for a breakthrough at the G8
summit in June in the Baltic resort of Heiligendamm.


In a meeting with green activists and other representatives of
"civil society" on Thursday, the G8 plus Five representatives got
a first-hand view of some of the grassroots agitation about
climate change.


Climate Action Network (CAN), a coalition of more than 360
environment and development groups in 85 countries, urged
ministers to agree to a maximum increase in Earth's average
temperature to 2 C (3.6 C) as compared with before the Industrial
Revolution.


"To achieve this, global greenhouse gas emissions need to peak
within the next 10-15 years and must be reduced by at least 50
percent below 1990 levels by 2050," CAN said.


The only worldwide pact for reducing global-warming emissions is
the UN's Kyoto Protocol.


The treaty runs out in 2012 but it will deliver just a tiny cut
of a few percentage points compared with 1990.


And that reduction will apply only to industrialised countries,
not big developing ones, which do not have binding, targeted
pledges under the present format and are now becoming hefty
polluters in their own right.


Worse, Kyoto has been virtually crippled by a walkout by the
United States, which by itself accounts for nearly a quarter of
world pollution.


Negotiations are underway for Kyoto's post-2012 format, with the
next round scheduled to take place on the Indonesian resort
island of Bali from December 3-14.


But for it to provide the massive cuts that experts are
demanding, it needs to coax an agreement from the oil-addicted
United States.


And it must secure tough commitments from big developing
countries, which fear their dash for growth could be wrecked by
the cost of switching to cleaner, more fuel-efficient technology.


German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel emphasised on Thursday
that developing nations should not gain the impression that the
rich world "expects them to carry our share of the burden."


The Potsdam meeting starts with a roundtable on biodiversity
before yielding to the issue of climate change.


That will give Germany the first chance to see whether the US and
the Big Five developing countries are spurred into making
concessions by the European Union's offer on greenhouse-gas cuts.


Last week, the 27-nation European Union (EU) vowed in a summit to
cut its own greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and
deepen it 30 percent if, in the words of German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, "international partners" follow suit.


In January, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
pointed to worrisome loss of alpine glaciers and snow cover,
retreating permafrost and shifting rainfall patterns as signs
that global warming had already started to interfere with the
climate.


By 2100 global average surface temperatures could rise by between
1.1 and 6.4 C (1.98 and 11.52 F) depending on how much carbon
dioxide (CO2), the principal greenhouse gas, is in the air, said
the IPCC, the UN's top scientific authority on climate change.

