

Schalke 04 coach Mirko Slomka admitted on Thursday he is wary of
the visit of third-placed Stuttgart who have seized the under-dog
tag ahead of Saturday's clash against the Bundesliga leaders.


In the hunt for their first German title in 49 years, Schalke's
form has deserted them - they have now gone four games without a
win - and Slomka knows his side desperately need a moral-boosting
victory at the Veltins-Arena.


Schalke are just three points ahead of second-placed Werder
Bremen and are away to a resurgent fourth-placed Bayern Munich in
a fortnight - after the international break - in a game which
could decide the identity of the 2007 Bundesliga champions.


"Stuttgart are playing down the roll of title candidates, that's
a tactic I can understand from their point of view," said Slomka.


"The last time we played them, they won 3-0, but we won't be
using that as motivation. The desire to maintain our league
position will be incentive enough."


Slomka was given a two-year extension to his current contract on
Thursday, but after losing their last two home games to Bayern
Leverkusen and Hamburg, his side need to stop leaking
championship points.


Stuttgart are without Bundesliga top-scorer Mario Gomez, who
picked up a knee injury last weekend which will rules him out for
six weeks, but are in good form having only lost just once in
eight games.


Fourth-placed Bayern Munich are hoping captain Oliver Kahn will
be fit for Saturday's trip to relegation-contenders Eintracht
Frankfurt.


After veteran coach Ottmar Hitzfeld committed to another year at
the helm on Thursday, Bayern are in buoyant mood following their
1-1 draw with Bremen and are desperate to close the six-point gap
between them and leaders Schalke.


Having been anchored to the bottom of the table at Christmas,
tenth-placed Mainz 05 face a huge test of their improved form
when they travel to Bremen on Sunday.


Mainz are waiting on the fitness of their Egyptian midfielder
Mohamad Zidan who was sold from Bremen for 2.8 million euros
during the winter break and has been a revelation for his new
club.


The 25-year-old striker has bagged seven goals in seven games,
but is battling flu in the race to face his former club.


With his new club having suffered eight defeats in the last ten
games, new Borussia Dortmund coach Thomas Doll has his work cut
to stop the 1997 European champions sliding into the relegation
zone, starting at home on Saturday to Nuremburg.


Dortmund are just one point from the relegation zone and after
departing coach Juergen Roeber questioned the commitment of his
squad, particularly German internationals Christoph Metzelder and
Sebastian Kehl, bridges need to be rebuilt.

