

Zimbabwe's badly beaten opposition chief Morgan Tsvangirai vowed
in a letter published here Friday to fight on until his country
is free and urged the world to maintain pressure for democratic
change.


"Yes, they brutalised my flesh. But they will never break my
spirit. I will soldier on until Zimbabwe is free," Tsvangirai
wrote in a letter published in the British newspaper The
Independent.


Tsvangirai was expected to leave hospital on Friday after being
told by doctors he is out of danger and had suffered no brain
damage after being arrested for trying to attend a banned
demonstration on Sunday.


Images of a badly beaten Tsvangirai and his supporters have
triggered worldwide condemnation, particularly from Mugabe's arch
foes in London and Washington, but he showed no signs of
softening his stance.


"Although (President) Robert Mugabe had banned all opposition
political party meetings and rallies, I had never anticipated
that he could go as far as ruthlessly crushing a peaceful prayer
meeting," Tsvangirai wrote.


He described how the events unfolded and how he was beaten.


"As I lie on my bed recuperating, I grieve at how our national
institutions, like the police force, have been criminalised by
Mugabe and converted into an extension of his ruling party," he
wrote.


"For many years, Zimbabweans were known for their respect for the
police.... That respect and professionalism is now lost due to
crass political opportunism," he said.


"Serious mistrust between the police force and the public now
rules," he warned.


"It shall take our nation decades of retraining the police and a
radical shift in mindset to rebuild that trust...


"I seek a comprehensive transformation of our society to restore
democracy and the rule of law," he wrote.


"Democratic change in Zimbabwe is within sight. Far from killing
my spirit, the scars they brutally inflicted on me have re-
energised me. I seek no martyrdom.


"I only seek a new dispensation in my country in which citizens
live freely in prosperity and not in fear of their rulers.


"Of course we need the support of the world, and please do
support us in achieving democratic change in Zimbabwe. I am
thankful for the support we got from the international community
during our ordeal.


"I am heartened by the messages of solidarity we got from all
over the world.... Let the pressure be maintained on the regime."

