

Zimbabwe and Ireland played to a thrilling tie in a tense finish
to their World Cup Group D match at Sabina Park here on Thursday.


Opener Jeremy Bray carried his bat for an undefeated 115 off 137
balls, his second one-day international hundred, to give Ireland
a sniff of a chance with a respectable total of 221 for nine off
their allocation of 50 overs.


The Zimbabweans appeared to be on course for victory on 203 for
five, but they lost their last five wickets for 18 runs in the
space of 38 balls to give Ireland a memorable finish to their
first match in the World Cup.


There have only been two other tied matches in World Cup history
- South Africa, chasing 213, tied with Australia in 1999 at
Birmingham, and Sri Lanka, chasing a revised target of 230 off 45
overs, tied with the Proteas in 2003 at Durban.


It all came down to Zimbabwe needing seven runs from the final
over bowled by spinner Andrew White.


Stuart Matsikenyeri, whose unbeaten 73 off 76 balls was the top
score for Zimbabwe, drove the first ball to long-off for two,
then cut the second to deep point for another two, before he
pulled a full toss just short of mid-wicket fielder Boyd Rankin
to scramble a single.


Last man Edward Rainsford drove the fourth ball to long-off for
the single to give the strike back to Matsikenyeri, whose top-
edged cut lobbed a chance to short third man.


Irish skipper Trent Johnson, the fielder, leapt, but he could
only get his fingertips to the ball and the batsmen crossed for
two.


With one run required for victory, White bowled a flat, fast,
full-length delivery and Matsikenyeri drove and missed, but
keeper Niall O'Brien had the presence of mind to collect the ball
and throw to the bowler's end, when Rainsford had backed up too
far, and White ran him out in a chaotic conclusion.


It all unravelled for Zimbabwe, when Brendon Taylor was run out
for 24 in the 44th over, backing up too far and failed to beat a
deflection from the hands of McCallan onto the stumps at the
bowlers' end.


Zimbabwe were still favourites to reach the target, needing 19
runs from 38 balls, but Gary Brent was adjudged lbw for three in
the 48th over, and this is where it all went pear-shaped.


Captain Prosper Utseya was caught at cover for one driving
straight into the lap of fielder Eoin Morgan, and Christopher
Mpofu was run out looking for a single in the penultimate over -
a double-wicket maiden bowled by Kevin O'Brien.


Spin bowler Kyle McCallan was the most successful Irish bowler
with two wickets for 40 runs from seven overs, after opening
batsman Vusimuzi Sibanda had paced Zimbabwe with 67 off 84 balls.


Zimbabwe started confidently, but Terrence Duffin was a victim of
his own indiscretion.


He was dropped twice in the same over that Boyd Rankin had him
caught behind for 12 driving loosely at a ball that nipped across
him in the sixth over.


Justice Chibhabha arrived and with Sibanda playing the aggressive
role, they put Zimbabwe on course for victory with a stand of 66
for the second wicket.


They were just beginning to get into the swing of things, when
Chibhabha was caught at mid-off off Irish captain Trent Johnson
for 12 in the 21st over.


His dismissal precipitated a purple patch for the Irish. They
collected the wickets of Sean Williams, Sibanda, and Chigumbura
in the space of 29 balls to leave Zimbabwe wobbling 133 for five
after 30 overs.


Earlier, Bray, a 33-year-old fitness instructor born in Sydney,
Australia, remained steadfast, despite wickets tumbling around
him and reached his landmark, when he square drove Mpofu to third
man for the last of his 10 boundaries.

