

Bowie Kuhn, whose tenure as Major League Baseball commissioner
saw the emergence of free agency and a major shift in the
economics of the game, died Thursday at the age of 80.


"He was a close friend, a respected leader, and an impressive
figure in all ways," current commissioner Bud Selig said in a
statement. "He led our game through a great deal of change and
controversy.


"Yet, Bowie laid the groundwork for the success we enjoy today.
He brought us expansion, night World Series games and greater
national television exposure."


Major League Baseball did not give details of the cause of Kuhn's
death.


Kuhn was commissioner from 1969-84, and early in his tenure he
fought to retain the reserve clause in the basic player contract,
which bound players to clubs.


Curt Flood challenged the reserve clause in a lawsuit against
Kuhn that eventually went to the US Supreme Court. He lost, but
baseball was put on notice that the practice was a restraint of
trade.


By 1977, an arbitrator had ruled in favor of the increasingly
powerful players' union and abolished the reserve clause,
ushering in the era of free agency.


Labor disputes were the norm under Kuhn, including a strike in
1981 over the still simmering issue of free agency compensation.


Kuhn also feuded with owners George Steinbrenner and Charles O.
Finley, and missed Hank Aaron's landmark 715th career home run.


He barred Hall of Famers Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays from
employment in baseball for their associations with an Atlantic
City casino.


He also presided over baseball as it added six teams, including
two in Canada, moved the World Series into US television's
evening "prime time," and gave lifetime baseball passes to the 52
hostages who returned from Iran in 1980.


In 1984, owners refused to extend Kuhn's contract, instead hiring
Peter Ueberroth, who had just completed his mission as the chief
of the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Committee.


Selig said teams playing spring training games will observe a
moment of silence and fly their flags at half mast in Kuhn's
honor.


"I was saddened to learn late this afternoon of former
Commissioner Kuhn's passing," Players Association executive
director Don Fehr said in a statement. "A lifelong fan of
baseball, Bowie dedicated many of his best years to the game."

