

Tiger Woods fired a near-flawless six-under 64 here Thursday to
seize a share of the lead in the weather-disrupted first round of
the Arnold Palmer Invitational.


"It is definitely the best round of the year (although) I haven't
played that many," said Woods, who is making his fourth start of
2007.


Woods has plenty of good experiences to draw on here, having won
this event four straight times from 2000-03.


"It was fun to hit the ball as well as I did and, more important,
get off to a quick start, especially with the weather coming in,"
he said.


Woods joined Vaughn Taylor and England's Paul Casey atop the
leaderboard, two strokes ahead of Spain's Sergio Garcia, US-based
Swede Carl Pettersson, South African Trevor Immelman, Rocco
Mediate and Sean O'Hair.


Benign conditions prevailed at Bay Hill until an afternoon storm
prevented 11 players from finishing. More inclement weather was
forecast for Friday.


Woods drove the ball well, avoiding the punishing rough on all
but a couple of occasions.


"I controlled my flight all day, even when the wind started
picking up," he said. "I missed a couple of putts early, but
after that I rolled the ball really well."


Woods missed only one green, the par-4 18th hole - his ninth -
where he had little choice but to take a penalty stroke after his
second shot ended up in the rocks guarding the green.


"I was between 9-iron and wedge and I went with wedge," he said.
"It landed on the green and spun back off."


Woods was upbeat as he headed to his nearby home.


"I may have left one or two out there, (but) 64 around here is
not too bad," he said.


Casey did something Woods could not, completing his round without
a bogey. He capped his round with a seven-foot birdie.


"It was the best start to a tournament I've had this year," the
29-year-old said. "I got a little stale in the middle and then
finished it off. To birdie 18 was fantastic, and I'm ecstatic
with that.


"The greens were very receptive. I think that was the key. If you
have a good lie in the fairway, and the right club in your hand,
you could really attack the flag. I had a lot of clubs which were
right on the number and allowed me to go straight at the flag."


Casey has struggled on the greens in his past few tournaments,
but some hard work last week with coach Peter Kostis seems to
have paid off.


"The posture got a little slumped, shoulders rounded," he said.
"I wasn't in a good position to hit putts, so we worked very hard
on the posture and tried to build up the confidence last week,
and it seems to have worked very nicely."


Casey, ranked 13 in the world, said he wants to fill a gap in his
resume by winning his first US tour title.


"It's without doubt one of my top goals, and if it was an event
where we have a stellar field like this, the world's best and
also Mr. Palmer's event, that would make it doubly special," he
said.


US Ryder Cup team member Taylor said there was no special secret
to his round.


"I just hit it solid and made a few putts," he said.

