

The Welsh public has always had a special place for the outside-
half of the national rugby union team.


The mercurial likes of Barry John, Phil Bennet, Cliff Morgan,
David Watkins and Jonathan Davies have all worn the shirt and it
is now the time of young tyro James Hook to take up the mantle
and prove his worth as the latest hot property from Wales'
"outside-half factory" immortalised by singer Max Boyce.


Hook's worth has already been noted by the New Zealand management
team, assistant coach Steve Hansen saying the 21-year-old would
be competing with Daniel Carter, voted the world's best player,
if he were playing in black - no mean compliment.


Hook gets his chance against England on Saturday with his side
having lost four out of four matches in the Six Nations and hot
favourites to collect the wooden spoon, just two years after
winning the Grand Slam.


Skipper Stephen Jones's withdrawal from the team with a wrist
injury gifts Hook a golden chance to press his claims as the top
stand-off in Welsh rugby ahead of the Rugby World Cup in France
later this year.


Jones's initial inclusion for the England game caused a furore in
Wales, with many former players blaming him for the team's
lacklustre performances this spring.


Phil Bennet even went as far as saying his injury was a "blessing
in disguise".


"He looked pale, ashen and beaten up after the (23-20) loss to
Italy and it was time to get him out of the firing line," said
the 1970s Wales and British Lions captain.


One player who did perform against Italy was Hook, who he is
raring to go against England and hoping to inspire his team-mates
to their first victory over a country in the top-10 world
rankings and only their third win in 14 attempts.


"I'm confident and so are the team, we want to go out and express
ourselves in front of our home fans," said the Ospreys player who
was playing semi- professional rugby with Neath this time last
year.


"Stephen's loss was huge but it's great to get a chance in a big
Test match, 10 is probably my position long-term," Hook told the
BBC.


Hook, who has played just eight games at outside-half in senior
rugby, admitted his display against title-chasing England could
decide his future position with Wales.


"Over the next few years I thought I'd gradually move into the
outside-half position but, hopefully, the performance on Saturday
will determine that.


"I'm still finding out what my best position is, but it's
definitely 10 or 12.


"It's a big game really. We need to win. It's not easy when you
are losing, but the positive you can take is that it can't get
much worse than it is at the moment.


"Hopefully, against England, it goes very well and we get the
win."


Under-fire Wales coach Gareth Jenkins, who had until now
steadfastedly ignored the growing clamour to replace Jones with
Hook, had words of praise for the youngster.


"It's not the choice I would have made, but I'm as excited as
anyone now it's happened. I want to see 'Hooky' playing outside-
half.


"He plays good rugby. The other thing, from my point of view, is
he plays with his head up. It's a quality which enables him to
spot things other players don't see.


"James has got good judgement and is not only kicking goals but
is developing a good out-of-hand kicking game.


"He's evolving towards his potential, is very natural, very
comfortable, very composed and very talented. Hooky has also got
an ability to mix his game up.


"The important thing, for me, is that James is playing Six
Nations rugby. This time last year the boy was playing for Neath
in the Welsh Premiership. He has come a long way in a short
time."


Gareth Thomas, who will play inside centre and takes back the
captain's armband against England, described Hook as an "amazing
talent" but warned that the public should not expect too much
from him.


"Hooky is an amazing talent, an awesome player. But I have
watched players being put up and put down.


"Hooky is going to have good and bad games. If he's left alone to
mature, he will become one of the best players in the world,"
said the Toulouse back.

