

China's investment in urban infrastructure rose 23.4 percent in
the first two months of the year, government data showed Friday,
in what amounts to small economic reprieve for the Asian
juggernaut.


The slightly lower figure released by the National Bureau of
Statistics, compared with a 24 percent rise for all of 2006, will
be welcome by regulators after other data this week suggested the
economy continues growing apace.


"The figure is not very high compared with last year so I don't
think it will make the government issue more tightening policies
on investment," said Ma Qing, an analyst with Citic Securities
based in Beijing.


In January and February of 2006, investment in fixed assets
increased 26.6 percent from a year earlier.


Total new fixed investment, a key indicator of state-funded
spending on major infrastructure, for January and February was
653.5 billion yuan (84 billion dollars), the statistics bureau
said in a statement.


Much of that investment was poured into China's state-owned
enterprises and projects, which for the two months to February
totalled 294.6 billion yuan, a rise of 17.96 percent from a year
ago.


Real estate, a sector that regulators have long worried is
overheated, received fresh funds of 178.6 billion yuan, up 24.3
percent, it added.


Investment is being driven by huge amounts of liquidity in
China's financial system on the back of record earnings from
exports, strong foreign investment flows and hot money betting on
a stronger currency, the yuan.


These factors have helped lifted China to fourth in the global
economic rankings on the back of breakneck growth of 10.7 percent
last year despite government efforts aimed at slowing the pace.


This year, China's regulators have again pledged a more even-
keeled course at 8.0 percent growth, with the annual two-week
session of parliament closing Friday with a motion to curb
excessive economic activity.


However, a slew of data released by the government this week
suggests that policy efforts to cool Asia's second largest
economy will have to be rethought and reapplied.


A rise of 18.5 percent in industrial output followed news of a
14.7 percent rise in consumer spending in the first two months
and a February inflation rate of 2.7 percent, a level the central
bank chief called "relatively high".


Growth in exports, which China has acknowledged it must do more
to slow and rebalance trade, jumped a near-record of 51 percent
in February. Loans also accelerated in the period.


Gao Shanwen, chief economist with Everbright Securities based in
Shanghai, said the lower fixed asset investment levels were
indeed a good sign but the challenge for regulators would be to
prevent another spike.


"As time goes by, the effect will fade while credit and loans are
picking up; I think investment will increase again in the next
half of the year," Gao said.


China publishes combined figures for the first two months of the
year to minimise the distortion of the week-long New Year
holiday, which falls in either January or February.

