

China's communist rulers are intent on building a more open
society but democracy remains a distant prospect, Prime Minister
Wen Jiabao said Friday.


"Socialist democracy in its most fundamental form is to let the
people be the masters of their own home," Wen said in his annual
press conference at the close of the National People's Congress,
China's parliament.


"This must also include the rights to democratic elections,
democratic decision- making, democractic administration and
democratic supervision."


Wen was speaking at the close of China's annual rubber-stamp
parliament, where about 3,000 handpicked delegates overwhelmingly
approved the policies and laws put forward by the Communist Party
elite.


On the final day of voting, 99.1 percent of lawmakers approved
Wen's annual work report, while the nation's budget received 87.6
percent support.


Wen insisted that democracy was not the sole franchise of
capitalism.


"Democracy, rule by law, freedom, human rights, equality and
fraternity do not belong solely to capitalism," Wen said.


"These are the results of a world historic process that mankind
has gone through together and they are the common values that are
aspired to by all humanity."


But while Wen insisted that China would travel its own road to
democracy, he cautioned not to expect quick results.


"For our socialism to go from being immature to mature,
unperfected to perfected and undeveloped to developed, will take
a very long time," Wen said.


Wen then refused to answer a question on late Communist Party
head Zhao Ziying, who was ousted from power after opposing the
use of force to quell the 1989 Tiananmen democracy protests.


The democratic theories of Zhao, who died in late 2005 after more
than 15 years under house arrest, resurfaced earlier this year in
a book published in Hong Kong.


"What you mentioned has nothing to do with what I just said
(about democracy)," Wen said, "I have not read this book."


Although the press conference was carried live on national
television, references to Zhao did not appear on the official
transcript posted on government websites.

