

China's parliament Friday overwhelmingly approved a property law
that has sparked controversy by offering unprecedented protection
to the private sector.


A total of 2,799 lawmakers voted for the law, or 96.9 percent of
those present in Beijing's Great Hall of the People on the final
day of the annual full session of parliament.


The law, by offering protection for private as well as public
ownership, reflects how far the nominally socialist state has
moved over nearly three decades of economic reform.


"The current draft has managed a fine balance between the rights
of the State, the collective and the individual," the government-
controlled China Daily newspaper said in a recent editorial.


The legislation had been through a record 13 years of debate,
passed seven readings and been the subject of criticism and
proposals from 47 government departments and an unprecedented
11,500 members of the public.


However China's parliament is regarded as a rubber stamp body for
the communist rulers.


Once they decided the law was finally ready to be passed, the
96.9 percent vote in favour was consistent with the parliament's
history of approving legislation with an overwhelming majority.


Supporters of the Property Law say it will protect private
companies against economic crime, such as embezzlement by their
own staff.


However opponents argue the law will help corrupt officials and
other lawbreakers protect their ill-gotten gains.


It has been under especially vicious attack from old-school
Marxists, who consider it a sell-out pushing China dangerously
close towards the capitalist camp.


However, the majority view seems to be that China needs a law
like this to define who owns what in an economy now largely
driven by market forces.


For instance, murky definitions about who owns what assets at the
heart of some of modern China's most serious conflicts, such as
bloody clashes over land use rights in the countryside.


"The average citizen wants to see the law passed, mostly because
of its effects on dispute-prone matters such as the individual's
rights in relocation for urban development programs," the China
Daily editorial said.


When the Constitution was amended in 2004 to offer protection of
private property, there was far less debate.


Some observers have said that the heated discussion the Property
Law has triggered reflects growing discontent with the inequality
which economic reform has created.

