

Pakistani security forces braced for an Islamist-led protest here
Friday amid snowballing international controversy sparked by
President Pervez Musharraf's sacking of the country's top judge.


Suspended chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry faces charges
of misconduct and abuse of power brought against him by the
military ruler, a move that has provoked a reaction from the
president's close ally the United States.


"It is a matter of deep concern and we believe that the
resolution of this matter should take place in a way that is
completely transparent and strictly in accordance with Pakistan's
laws," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


New protests were expected Friday in Islamabad, Lahore and
Karachi, as Chaudhry was due to appear for a second time in four
days before a judicial accountability council at the Supreme
Court, who are ruling on the case.


The police have now banned any assembly of more than five people
in a public place.


"We have called in an additional 1,000 police for deployment in
the capital to maintain law and order," to reinforce 3,000
already on duty in the city, a senior interior ministry official
told AFP.


Opposition leaders allege Musharraf's move was aimed at
intimidating the judiciary before they hear key issues --
including his planned re-election by the present parliament and
his dual position as president and army chief -- later this year.


They vowed to defy the ban.


"We will carry the holy book in our hands and assemble outside
the Supreme Court building to offer Friday prayers and register
our protest over action against the justice," Shahid Shamsi, a
spokesman for Pakistan's main alliance of Islamic parties, told
AFP.


He said the government would be responsible for any trouble if it
tried to keep the political leaders and workers from
demonstrating.


Islamic alliance president Qazi Hussain Ahhmed was to lead the
congregation near the parliament.


The Pakistan Muslim League party of exiled former prime minister
Nawaz Sharif, whom Musharraf ousted in a coup in 1999, and the
party of former cricket hero- turned-politician Imran Khan has
said it will join the protest.


Former prime minister Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party
said its leaders would decide a few hours before the planned
midday protest whether to participate, though it has supported
the angry legal community.


Information Minister Mohammad Ali Durrani said the government
would not allow anyone to disrupt normal life.


"We appeal to the opposition leaders not to politicise a legal
issue and refrain from creating a law and order situation. The
government will not allow any one to flout law and will protect
the life and property of the citizens," he told AFP.


Musharraf spoke about the issue for the first time on Thursday,
telling a public meeting in the central city of Gujranwala that
he would accept whatever decision emerges from the ongoing
judicial inquiry.


Musharraf added he would address the nation after the outcome of
the inquiry and place all the facts before the people, saying
"vested interests" were trying to exploit a purely judicial
matter for political motives.


Chaudhry has denied the charges against him and questioned the
constitutionality of the judicial council, as well as saying he
was roughed-up by police after refusing an official car on the
way to an earlier hearing.


The council was expected to decide Friday on the legal points
raised by Chaudhry.


A group of English lawyers, including Prime Minister Tony Blair's
wife Cherie Booth, also voiced concern.


"The reports of the humiliating treatment of the chief justice of
Pakistan is causing great international unease, and is not in the
interest of the government of Pakistan, and lowers the
international esteem of Pakistan," the 70 lawyers said in a
petition.

