

A Japanese court sentenced disgraced dotcom tycoon Takafumi Horie
to two and a half years in prison Friday over a massive fraud
scandal at his Livedoor Internet firm that stunned the
establishment.


The flamboyant 34-year-old entrepreneur was accused of falsely
reporting a pre- tax profit of some five billion yen (43 million
dollars) for the year to September 2004 to hide actual losses of
310 million yen.


News of the Livedoor probe last year sent the Tokyo stock market
briefly into freefall, forcing Asia's largest bourse to close
early for the first time ever as a flood of sell orders
threatened to swamp the computer system.


The sentence was read out moments after Horie, trailed by
hundreds of reporters including television helicopters, entered
the Tokyo District Court wearing a dark suit with an open-neck
shirt.


Horie, who had put on a tie while inside the courtroom, flipped
passively through the written verdict as it was read out by Judge
Toshiyuki Kosaka.


The judge said Horie and Livedoor set up a venture fund "with the
purpose of evading the law."


"The fund was not related to Livedoor's main business but was to
manipulate the Livedoor accounts," Kosaka said.


Prosecutors had sought four years in prison for Horie, who was
once seen as the face of a new, free-wheeling Japanese business
model.


Four other executives of the Livedoor firm admitted to fraud
allegations, but Horie steadfastly insisted on his innocence, an
unusual practice in Japan which has a near 100-percent conviction
rate.


The chubby, spiky-haired tycoon, who was once a regular on the
celebrity circuit or at the wheel of a Ferrari with a model on
his arm, has called his trial revenge by the establishment.


Horie wore a tee-shirt to negotiate with men in suits and
complained he was bored with the business world's slow decision-
making, famously declaring: "All the evils come from aged
business managers."


He built one of Japan's top Internet empires with an aggressive
expansion drive, including high-profile but unsuccessful bids for
the nation's most watched TV network and even a professional
baseball team.


Horie also made an unsuccessful bid for a seat in parliament,
with the blessing of then prime minister Junichiro Koizumi.

