

During the rule of Saddam Hussein, the residents of Khuria suburb
in Iraq's northern oil hub of Kirkuk clamoured for a police post
to be built in their community -- for their own protection.


Now they want it removed -- for their own protection.


"I no longer feel secure living next door to a police station,"
said a resident who did not want to be identified, fearing for
his safety.


"The building is under constant attack -- mortars, car bombs," he
said. "I want to move -- as far as possible from a police station
or a political party headquarters."


His house, modern and large by Iraqi standards, now bears a "for
sale" sign.


But if location is the key to successful property dealing, this
one has little going for it.


Slap bang up against the house are barricades and rolls of barbed
wire erected to protect the post, which was hit by a car bomb a
month ago that killed 10 people.


The complex still bears the scars of the attack -- twisted metal,
rubble, pockmarked walls, scorch marks on the roof.


But it was the locals who paid the real price. Seven residents
who happened to be walking by at the time of the blast were
killed and 11 injured.


At Kirkuk's Sulaiman Taha hospital, the father of one of the
wounded demanded that the police post be moved.


"It is essential that it be taken out of the community," he said.
"It would be better if it were rebuilt far from residential
areas. It would be better for the residents as well as for the
police.


"It is a mistake to build police stations or political party
offices among houses," said Ismail Mohammed, a carpenter wounded
in the attack. "There could be an attack at any moment."


Khuria suburb also plays host to the local headquarters of the
Iraqi-Turkman Front political party.


Also a potential target in Iraq's raging sectarian violence, the
building is constantly protected by armed guards -- not the kind
of neighbour one could warm to that easily.


The chief of the Khuria police unit, Colonel Hussein Sarhan, is
well aware of the problems his police post is causing in the
community but says the situation will soon return to normal.


"In the past, police posts were built within communities so that
they could offer security to local residents. The Khuria post was
put among the shops and boutiques and homes," said Sarhan.


"We are going through an abnormal period. When things get better,
everything will fall back into place. Right now, from the
youngest to the oldest, all Iraqis are living in an abnormal
situation."


Like the rest of the country, Kirkuk, an important city 255
kilometres (160 miles) north of Baghdad with a population of
Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds and Turkmen, is riven with sectarian
violence.


Ironically, while the people of Khuria want the police post
shifted outside their community, in Baghdad a security plan aimed
at quelling sectarian violence envisages setting up police posts
-- managed jointly by Iraqi and US troops -- in the heart of
residential areas.

