

France may have seen their dreams of the perfect World Cup morale
booster of the Six Nations Grand Slam shattered by England last
weekend but here on Saturday they will be aiming to seal their
second successive northern hemisphere title by beating Scotland.


The French will have a fair idea of what they have to do as
Ireland, who are also on six points but trail on points
difference, will have already played Italy while world champions
England play wooden spoon candidates Wales later, but with a
vastly inferior points difference, and have only outside hopes of
landing the title.


Nevertheless France still have something to prove after their
wake up call by England, whose makeshift team of youth and old
heads somehow froze out France and stormed to a stunning victory.


No one is more aware of this than their captain Raphael Ibanez,
who issued a warning to the squad this week that they should
focus more at the task in hand than thoughts about would they
make the World Cup squad.


"Did every player perform his duties?" pondered the 34-year-old
hooker about the players who played against England.


"For the guy who thought too much about the World Cup when
running on to the pitch at Twickenham and then under-performed,
it is the best way to miss out on the World Cup.


"Some of the players were thinking too much about being in the
squad, but me I think it is better to have gone and played well
against England than to watch the matches on television," added
Ibanez, who captained France to the 1999 World Cup final where
they lost to Australia.


France coach Bernard Laporte remains confident, though, that his
side can still carry off the title.


"Despite everything I have said we are on course to win the
tournament and now it just depends on us," said the 42-year-old,
who is stepping down after eight years in charge following the
end of the World Cup.


For Scotland coach Frank Hadden he can travel with a certain
amount of confidence given the feisty performance they gave in
the 19-18 defeat by Triple Crown winners Ireland last Saturday.


The French also will have to be mindful of Scotland's metronomic
kicker Chris Paterson, who has not failed in his last 20 attempts
at goal and almost singlehandedly denied the Irish last weekend.


Certainly Hadden believes that Scotland have a real chance of
securing a surprise result and ensure that it is the Welsh -
regardless of even if they beat England - who end up with the
wooden spoon.


"I believe we are going to Paris with a real opportunity not just
to show we are capable of performing better than in our last two
matches but actually of winning the game," said Hadden.


"I base that on the fact that the Borders came within a hair's
breadth of winning in Biarritz earlier this season, Edinburgh,
likewise in Agen and that Glasgow did win in Narbonne."


Hadden's belief was mirrored by Ibanez.


"I hope this defeat (the England match) will be at the back of
our minds," said Ibanez. "We are in need of a team that is
bursting at the seams to bounce back.


"Scotland know the highs (France surprisingly lost 20-16 to
Scotland last year which cost them the Grand Slam) and the lows
of international rugby but have had their successes against
France.


"Thus it is imperative to have a very strong French team, who
plays to the required level, in order to control the Scots."

