

Brad Hodge hopes his impressive all-round credentials will
guarantee his place in Australia's World Cup team despite the
imminent return of big-hitting Andrew Symonds.


"Sitting at the back of my mind, I am batting in Symonds'
position, and he's just been named as one of Australia's all-time
greatest players in one-day cricket," said Hodge.


"If I bowl well, I can keep my place."


Symonds is expected to be pushing for a recall to the world
champions' starting line-up for the next Group A game against the
Netherlands on Sunday after recovering from arm surgery.


But in Symonds's absence, Hodge impressed in the 203-run win over
Scotland, hitting a breezy 29 before taking 1-16 with his fastish
off-spin.


"I always knew the potential was there, it's just something
that's never really been tapped into for (state side) Victoria,"
said the 32-year-old Hodge.


"I've bowled a fair bit for Lanashire in the county championship,
but never been tested at this level. I'm enjoying the challenge."


But he admits that never being an automatic first choice for the
national side means that he has never really had the opportunity
to show his true talents.


"I think that is the frustrating thing in Australia. It's very
hard to put in performances when you get a spasmodic game here
and there," he said.


"They are the cards that I have been dealt and I've just got to
deal with it. Someone's misfortune is often someone else's good
fortune, and Andrew's injury gave me another chance, and I've
played well."


Hodge agreed that facing the potent Australian attack is a
difficulty for other teams.


"I know as a batsman I wouldn't want to face our attack. It's
pretty devastating at times," he said pointing to the express
pace of Shaun Tait.


"Shaun has filled Brett Lee's role and has done a pretty good
job, he could come on leaps and bounds in this tournament."


Hodge said Australia was looking forward to their crunch Group A
match against bitter rivals South Africa on March 24.


"Both sides are playing excellent cricket, obviously it's the
match we are looking forward to," he said of the team who deposed
them as world number one.


"If Australia is ranked second then we are the underdogs. It's
going to be a great contest, both powerhouses of the one-day
competition. We'll have to see on the day."

