

"There is no right or wrong way," the trailmaster told his nine
fellow bushwalkers as they traced a little-known passage through
the Philippines' Sierra Madre range.


"But whining is not allowed."


The city slickers entered a different world in the sleepy village
of Daraitan just 50 kilometres (30 miles) east of Manila. Here
there are no roads, no bridges, no electricity, no telephones,
and no 24-hour convenience stores. The locals speak a lilting,
archaic form of Tagalog, the national language.


Tents, stoves, pots, clothing, and three days' worth of food were
carried in backpacks as the team walked across the country's
longest mountain range.


Broadly tracking the now languid Daraitan River, the trail rises
above the water in the dry season and loops through mountain
valleys toward Luzon island's east coast.


River trekking and its relative, canyoning, established sports in
parts of the world as diverse as the United States, western
Europe, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Hong Kong and
Taiwan, are relatively new in the Philippines.


"You are the first people I've met who would walk into the water
on purpose," farmer Freddie Cuerdo told the thirsty trekkers as
he sold them coconut milk.


"It's exciting. It's a new thing and is something different,"
said Jennifer Anarna, who climbs mountains outside her day job
with a European consumer goods giant.


Spectacular cathedral-sized marble formations, limestone caves,
virgin tropical forests, hot springs and scattered settlements of
Dumagats line the route.


Among the first known settlers of the Philippines, the semi-
nomadic Dumagats spear river fish, trap parrots, wild pigeons and
forest game, and weave wicker- like baskets fashioned from tall
rattan reeds when not burning the mountaintops to carve out
farms.


"Usually, we do forest trails at rising elevations. Crossing
rivers, especially with strong currents, is a different
experience," said graphic designer Thaddeus Reantaso, like Anarna
a member of Manila-based AMCI Mountaineering Club Inc.


Interest in adventure tourism -- mountain and rock climbing,
spelunking (caving), scuba diving, offroad rallying, and
whitewater rafting are also gaining popularity -- is fed by
higher disposable incomes.


"The climbing season started earlier. Usually the climbing starts
next month," said the trailmaster who goes by the name Oca.
"Consumer confidence is much better than last year."


Even as paychecks rise, more and more Filipinos are becoming
"stressed out and they realise they need the weekend to recharge"
through adventure or physical activity, he said.


"We came here to climb a nearby mountain in 1991 and somebody
mentioned that this river goes all the way to the Pacific Ocean.
It perked up my interest because I had not seen the Pacific at
the time," the trailmaster said.


An experienced mountaineer himself, he said climbing "no longer
holds any fascination," and he began organising annual river
treks here in 2000.


This year's team, all AMCI members with several hundred mountain
summits under their collective belts, kept their backpacking
boots dry in the first four hours by scrambling along the rocky,
at times brush-covered riverbank.


It was slow going under the hot tropical sun and the day was
broken up with regular rest breaks with freshly brewed coffee and
food in the shade of trees or rock overhangs.


At times, the only trail signs to go by are the red stains of
betel nut spit out by the Dumagats, who chew the bitter mildly
narcotic fruit to make their river commute more bearable.


The trailmaster told the team of 20-somethings and baby boomers
that it was up to them to find the best route downstream. "The
river trail has a logic of its own," he said.


By noon the river had narrowed to a deep channel framed by two
smooth vertical rock walls, forcing the team into the water where
they rode their packs like improvised rafts.


Despite using double bin liners sealed with rubber bands to
waterproof their packs, half the team found their clothing and
gear was wet when they pitched camp on a sandbar in late
afternoon. A camera and a mobile phone were among the casualties.


They were forced to cook damp pasta for dinner. Aubergines and
tomatoes bought from farmers along the way completed the menu.


The next morning they awoke to a cacophony of bird sounds. Black
crows, brown hawks, and screeching blue kingfishers patrolled the
deep canyon above the water.


A family of Dumagats walked upstream on the far bank, and their
dog dived into the water to cross and scavenge among the tents.


A pair of huge hornbills, now rarely seen in depleted Philippine
forests, emerged above the canopy, their red bills and long
yellow tails standing out in the sun-drenched foliage that sagged
under their weight.


Giant rotting logs littered the banks, a constant reminder that
despite the breathtaking scenery, this is still a potentially
dangerous sport.


The Sierra Madre's upper reaches unleashed unseasonal flash
floods that killed more than 1,000 people along Daraitan and
other areas downstream on November 30, 2004.


The trail ended two days later in the hamlet of Pagsangahan,
where Daraitan links up with another tributary to form the much
bigger Agos River.


Weighed down by their heavy packs, the team had walked a total of
21 hours over three days. Locals say the trail is a mere 23
kilometres (14.3 miles) long and they normally cover it in a
single day.


"I would definitely do this again," team member Reantaso said.


"Of course," Anarna agreed.

