

Manchester United's resilience as Premiership pacesetters will
come under scrutiny when Bolton visit Old Trafford on Saturday.


While Chelsea, who trail the leaders by six points, will be
confident of securing maximum points at home to Sheffield United,
United face a testing lunchtime date with Sam Allardyce's awkward
squad.


Any slip-ups on Saturday will be of added value because the
upcoming break for international matches means that, after this
weekend, there will be no Premiership matches until March 31.


United midfielder Paul Scholes sits out the Bolton clash as the
second game of a three-match ban. But the former England star
insists the Red Devils are in no mood to let Chelsea get any
closer to them.


"After not doing so well in the Premiership over the last couple
of years, we are more determined than ever to lift the trophy
this year," Scholes said.


"We have not had that trophy for four years now - that's too
long. It is a trophy we desperately want to win back."


Scholes could be one of half a dozen United players missing this
weekend. Darren Fletcher, Mikael Silvestre, Louis Saha and Ole
Gunnar Solskjaer are ruled out through injury while Patrice Evra
is also a major doubt as well.


With Henrik Larsson now back in Sweden, Ryan Giggs could be
pressed into service as an emergency striker alongside Wayne
Rooney, with Park Ji-Sung occupying a wide role with Cristiano
Ronaldo.


Allardyce has seen his side's form dip in recent weeks but the
Bolton boss always relishes crossing swords with the league's big
boys.


"We have to try to get our act together as my team have been
under-achieving," Allardyce said.


Liverpool's visit to Aston Villa on Sunday will bring them up
against Anfield old boy Patrik Berger.


The Czech winger's days had looked numbered at Villa Park after
he refused to play in a reserve match in December and was loaned
out to Stoke after being fined by Villa boss Martin O'Neill.


But the 33-year-old has recently forced his way back into
O'Neill's plans and could yet win himself a new deal at the club.


"Will Berger be given a new contract? I wouldn't rule anything
out," said O'Neill. "I have an open mind. It has been a big turn-
around for him and at the end of it all, he is a good player."


Liverpool striker Dirk Kuyt will be aiming to improve a goal
strike-rate that he admits could be better.


Kuyt, who has found the net ten times since joining from
Feyenoord last summer, said: "I expected to have scored more by
now than I have. The boss gave me an 18-goal target for the
season when I joined and I still believe I can achieve that by
the end of the campaign."


Peter Crouch will miss the match as he is recovering from an
operation on his broken nose.


Arsenal travel to sixth-placed Everton looking to put their
recent disappointments further behind them with Arsene Wenger's
squad slowly returning to full strength.


Defender Kolo Toure is available again following a three-match
domestic suspension, Alexander Hleb (knee) is likely to feature
and midfielder Tomas Rosicky should start.


But with skipper Thierry Henry out for the rest of the season,
the Gunners are short of forwards -- Togo striker Emmanuel
Adebayor is due to complete the last match of his suspension.


Sunday also sees relegation-threatened Charlton entertain
Newcastle, with defender Luke Young insisting a win is vital to
the Addicks' chances of beating the drop.


"We have got two games at home now and if we can pick up two
victories against Newcastle and Wigan, the table will look an
altogether different proposition," said Young.


Fixtures (1500 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Blackburn v West Ham (1715 GMT), Chelsea v Sheffield Utd,
Manchester Utd v Bolton (1245 GMT), Middlesbrough v Manchester
City, Reading v Portsmouth, Tottenham v Watford, Wigan Athletic v
Fulham


Sunday


Aston Villa v Liverpool (1335 GMT), Charlton v Newcastle (1330),
Everton v Arsenal (1600)

