

The worst may not be over for the US mortgage sector, whose
shakiness has rippled across financial markets worldwide, many
economists say.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "subprime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


According to data released last week by the Mortgage Bankers'
Association, delinquencies on home loans reached 4.95 percent of
all outstanding loans in the final quarter of 2006, the highest
level for three and a half years.


"Increases in delinquency and foreclosure rates were noticeably
larger for subprime loans," MBA chief economist Doug Duncan said.


Before the boom turned to bust in parts of the United States,
many would-be home buyers desperate to get on the ladder took out
variable rate mortgages at special "teaser" rates of interest.


Those rates have now shot up, with the Federal Reserve's
benchmark borrowing rate now standing at 5.25 percent, and
average monthly repayments are becoming unmanageable for many.


"More is likely to come, given this (MBA) report only reflects
the mortgage market as of the end of 2006," Wachovia financial
economist Gina Martin said.


According to a Wall Street Journal survey Thursday, 32 out of 60
economists said it was likely that the subprime turbulence would
spill over to the rest of the mortgage market. But the
respondents ruled out a recession.


Credit troubles engulfing several leading subprime lenders,
including the market's number-two New Century Financial,
contributed to a rout on global stock markets early last week.


New York and other major markets had steadied by the end of the
week, but there remained the concern for some investors that the
subprime ructions could reverberate through blue-blood Wall
Street firms that lent to the sector.


"Now the subprime and mortgage and credit crunch genie is out of
the bottle, and no amount of self-serving spin will be able to
lock it back in the bottle," New York University economist
Nouriel Roubini said.


The broader fear is for US consumer spending, given the property
boom's pivotal role in sustaining economic growth in recent
years.


As long as prices were rising, homeowners could refinance their
mortgages to sustain their high spending. But with real-estate
prices now stagnant or falling, that avenue is closed for many.


But not everyone sees doom ahead. Briefing.com president Dick
Green said "the broad economic impact of these problems is vastly
overblown."


"The subprime mortgage market, by definition, covers low-income
consumers ... The impact on total spending is likely to be far
less than the impact of rising gasoline prices in 2005-2006,
which hit all consumers," he said.


"Real GDP (gross domestic product) growth plowed through that
problem."


Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke late last month said the
central bank was working on new guidelines for the underwriting
and disclosure of subprime loans.


But he stressed that "at this point we don't see it as being a
broad financial concern or a major factor in assessing the course
of the economy."


Nevertheless, the mortgage market difficulties have resonated on
Capitol Hill.


Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd, a 2008 presidential
contender, attacked "predatory lenders and regulatory failures"
that he said are costing rising numbers of Americans their homes,
and promised to look at new legislation.


The MBA's Duncan, however, rejected changes to the law.


He said "market discipline in this industry is swift, can be
severe, and is more effective at changing lending practices than
any potential changes in regulation."

