

Chelsea coach Steve Clarke believes the form of Frank Lampard and
the return to action of skipper John Terry have left Chelsea
perfectly placed to rein in Manchester United in the Premiership
title run-in.


The Blues, who face Sheffield United at Stamford Bridge on
Saturday, trail United by six points with only nine games left to
close the gap.


But Clarke, Jose Mourinho's number two, is confident that
objective is realisable, particular if Lampard is firing on all
cylinders ahead of a fit- again Terry.


"We have always felt that the gap behind Man United is
manageable," said Clarke. "One slip by them now, it is three
points and the pressure will be really on.


"We have said for a long time we are going to chase them all the
way. We are not going to make the first mistake in the run-in.
Hopefully they will make it sooner rather than later."


England midfielder Lampard grabbed his 20th goal of the season in
Wednesday's 1-0 League win at Manchester City, underscoring again
how important he is to the club.


"We don't need reminding about that," said Clarke. "We work with
him week in, week out. His goal return from midfield is
fantastic.


"To score 20 goals at this stage of the season for a midfielder
is a marvellous achievement.


"After the drama and euphoria of the FA Cup tie against Tottenham
on Sunday, it can be difficult for the players to raise their
game. But we did enough against Manchester City - you could say
almost always in control of the game - and it was a good three
points for us."


Chelsea and England captain Terry returned to action at City
after more than two weeks out with a head injury he suffered in
the League Cup final triumph over Arsenal.


Clarke added: "It is good to have any injured player back, but
John Terry is very, very important to us because when he is not
there, we have to compensate in other ways.


"He is still looking to get maximum fitness but the way his
positional play is and the way he gets around the pitch, he does
a great job.


"Clean sheets are important and when you make the number of
changes we have had to the back four and the goalkeeper this
season, it is always good when you get the good performance in
defence you expect from Chelsea."


Sheffield United manager Neil Warnock prepared for his side's
visit to Stamford Bridge by expressing the hope that Mourinho
will stay at Chelsea beyond the end of this season.


Warnock said: "To be honest I don't give two hoots what goes on
at Chelsea regarding Jose. He handles the situation like he wants
to.


"But it's great for the game to have him here. It was getting
boring before he came along. He brings another dimension to the
Premiership.


"He's spent money, of course, but you've still got to manage
these players and motivate them. Maybe I could take lessons off
him in Portuguese, it could save me a lot of money in fines from
the FA!


"But if Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is drawing up a shortlist
of replacements, I should be on it. I should be on anybody's
list."


Warnock, then manager of Notts County, turned down the Chelsea
job when former Blues chairman Ken Bates offered it to him back
in 1991.


Warnock added: "Everybody has regrets, although I don't think my
life would be any happier now had I taken the offer of the
Chelsea job all those years ago.


"It wasn't the Chelsea that's there now. Ken Bates showed me the
model of the hotel and said it would be finished in six years. I
remember saying 'Do you think I will last six years with you?'


"The place was falling down and three and a half hours on the
(London orbital motorway) M25 stuck in traffic didn't really help
me.


"Life is too precious. My big dislike is traffic jams and that's
why I'm going to live in Cornwall when I retire. The only traffic
jam is when the tractor pulls up at the post office."

