

Olympic and world champion Grant Hackett's preparations for the
world championships this month are his worst ever and he is no
longer invincible, long-time mentor Denis Cotterell said.


Hackett, the most-decorated swimmer in world championships
history with 17 medals, including 10 golds, relocated to
Melbourne from the Gold Coast several weeks ago to be closer to
his fiancee, pop singer Candice Alley.


He is also coming back from a season off with major shoulder
surgery.


Cotterell said the move, while necessary for Hackett mentally,
had been disruptive, and that he would need all his experience to
maintain his 10-year unbeaten streak in the 1500m freestyle.


"He will have to rely on every bit of past experience and courage
he has got to perform and he will be doing that and extracting
that," said Cotterell.


"It will be interesting to see how he can respond (from) the most
difficult preparation by a long shot that he's ever had.


"If he can be really successful it will confound me as a coach.


"He's done it with real health problems but they were on the back
of very good preparations but this is not such a good preparation
but going in healthy," Cotterell said. "He is becoming more
vulnerable."


Hackett holds the 1500m world record of 14 minutes and 34 seconds
but is being chased hard by America's Larsen Jensen, Briton David
Davies and Russia's Yuri Prilukov.


The Australian, gunning for a record fifth 1500m world
championship title, also holds the 800m freestyle world record
and will swim that race and the 400m in Melbourne.


Cotterell said the 26-year-old's mental ability was still his
greatest asset.


"He will need to stay mentally strong at every stage," he said.


"I'm not suggesting he can't because that's been absolutely one
of his greatest characteristics.


"I have seen him lots of times swim beyond what his healthy
status would have allowed."


The world swimming championships officially open on Saturday with
the key swimming races beginning on March 25.

