

India are determined to avoid a Kiwi headache when they clash
with Bangladesh in their opening World Cup match at the Queen's
Park Oval here on Saturday.


New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming conceded that Bangladesh had
given them a "great, big headache" after his team's surprise two-
wicket defeat in a warm-up game at Bridgetown last week.


Following their shock victory, Bangladesh have emerged serious
challengers to the sport's big teams and neither India nor Sri
Lanka can now afford to take Habibul Bashar's side lightly.


India may have won 13 of their 14 one-dayers against Bangladesh,
but skipper Rahul Dravid has already said he expects each member
of his team to be "switched on" for the crucial opening game in
Group B.


Bangladesh's lone victory over India came at Dhaka in 2004.


"I expect the team to put up a very professional performance,
irrespective of who we play against. We respect Bangladesh and we
have seen what they have done against New Zealand," he said.


Batting holds the key to India's fortunes, with Sourav Ganguly,
Sachin Tendulkar, Dravid and Yuvraj Singh all capable of
demolishing any attack on any surface.


Hard-hitting opener Virender Sehwag may not have got a big score
in recent matches, but Dravid said India had four batsmen --
Ganguly, Robin Uthappa, Tendulkar and Sehwag -- who had been
opening the innings.


"If one or two guys are not doing well, then it is up to others
to make up for it," he said.


Things have so far gone well for Bangladesh, who beat New Zealand
and Scotland in practice matches. They need to beat either India
or Sri Lanka to boost chances of making it to the next Super
Eight stage.


First-timers Bermuda, the fourth side in the group, suffered a
crushing 243-run defeat in their opening game against Sri Lanka
here on Thursday.


Bangladesh's batting clicked in both the warm-up matches, with
Bashar, Javed Omar, Tamim Iqbal and Saqibul Hasan all
contributing to their team's wins.


Fast bowler Mashrafe Mortaza, and left-arm spinners Mohammad
Rafique and Abdur Razzak are also in form, having played key
roles in the practice games.


"We had a wonderful 2006 when we beat a few teams," Bangladesh
captain Bashar said, referring to his side's eight wins in a row
-- six against Zimbabwe and two against Scotland.


"We did not get to play big teams last year. Coming to World Cup
we had a bit of worry since we had not played a big team for a
while. But after beating New Zealand, we feel we can do it.


"India and Sri Lanka are contenders for the World Cup, so it's a
big challenge for us."


Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore, who led Sri Lanka to the 1996
world title, said his team could emerge as one of the surprise
packets of the tournament if they played to their potential.


"If the boys are able to keep their focus and set about their
task, and control what they can control, then we will be okay,"
he said.

