

A US army sergeant on trial for murder testified Thursday he had
no role in the killing of unarmed Iraqi detainees, but helped to
cover up the shooting out of loyalty to his men.


Staff Sergeant Raymond Girouard, 24, admitted that he may have
joked about killing the prisoners but said he was surprised to
find three men dead when he came back from escorting a fourth
prisoner to a helicopter to be flown back to base.


"Obviously, somebody took something wrong," he said on the third
day of his trial for premeditated murder, conspiracy and
obstruction of justice.


Girouard is the most senior soldier charged in the May 2006
incident and the only one not to plead guilty.


Two soldiers who admitted to freeing and then shooting the
prisoners received 18-year sentences in plea agreements. A third,
who said he shot a wounded prisoner as a mercy killing, was
sentenced to nine months in prison on a charge of aggravated
assault.


When asked whether he thought his fellow soldiers had turned
against him to get lighter sentences, Girouard laughed and said
"yes."


Several soldiers have testified that Girouard told them they
should kill the detainees after the squad radioed back to base
and were angrily questioned by an officer who asked why live
prisoners had been taken.


In a meeting the day before the incident, the troops were said to
have been told that no military-aged men should be left alive
during the raid on a suspected insurgent compound on an island
near Samarra, north of Baghdad.


The commanding officer, Colonel Michael Steele, has denied giving
that order and several witnesses who told military investigators
that they heard Steele tell troops to "kill all military aged
males" said it did not apply to suspects who were obviously
surrendering.


The judge has ruled that Steele does not have to testify, but
allowed Girouard's lawyers to question soldiers about the rules
of engagement.


US soldiers are expected to know the rules of war and can be
prosecuted for obeying unlawful orders. At issue is whether
Girouard issued such an order by telling two members of his squad
to shoot the prisoners and pretend they were killed while trying
to escape.


When asked by his attorney whether he ordered the Iraqi men
killed, Girouard said: "No ma'am, No ma'am."


But Girouard told the court he made a spur of the moment decision
to help the other soldiers after he arrived at the scene of the
shooting.


"I was looking out for the well-being of my soldiers," he said.


As part of the attempt to hide the killing, he said he used a
knife to cut William Hunsaker on his arm and cheeks to make it
look a struggle had occurred.


"I had to help him be believable. He screwed up real bad ... I
knew he was going to go down hard," he told the court.


But after the initial shock wore off, Girouard said he started
yelling at the shooters and punched one of them in the face.


He added the incident has haunted him.


"For the last nine months, I've thought about it every night in
my cell," he said.


The investigation of the four men from the famed Kentucky-based
Rakkasans, the third Combat Brigade of the 101st Airborne
Division, focused a critical light on the US military's
controversial and opaque rules of engagement in Iraq.


The unit's motto, which is emblazoned in front of brigade
headquarters in Tikrit says "we give the enemy the maximum
opportunity to die for his country".


A witness at the hearing confirmed that the unit kept a board
recording a 'kill count', but that it had been taken down because
it was felt to be in bad taste, after it was used to record the
death of a pregnant woman shot at a roadblock.


The case is one of two incidents involving allegations of
civilian killings involving the storied 101st Airborne.


In the other case, four soldiers and a former soldier are accused
of raping and murdering a 14-year-old girl in March of 2006, and
killing her family.

