

China's military expansion poses no threat to other countries and
is aimed purely at reinforcing the country's capability to defend
its own far-flung borders, Premier Wen Jiabao said Friday.


"The limited armed forces China has are completely for the
purpose of safeguarding the country's security, independence and
sovereignty," Wen said when asked if China's military growth
contradicted its stated peaceful aims.


"On this matter we are completely transparent."


Speaking at his traditional press conference after the close of
the annual session of parliament, Wen also dismissed overseas
concerns triggered by China's destruction in January of an
orbiting satellite in a missile test.


"By conducting this test, China does not target any country, it
threatens no country and has not violated any international
treaties," Wen said.


He insisted China was committed to the peaceful use of outer
space and called for the signing of an international agreement on
the issue.


"We call on the countries concerned to sign an international
convention on the peaceful use of outer space at an early date,"
he said.


At the start of the parliamentary session, China fuelled overseas
concerns by announcing that military spending, which has grown
dramatically in recent years, would rise another 17.8 percent in
2007 to about 45 billion dollars.


The United States and Japan have been among the most vocal in
expressing concerns about China's escalating military budget.


But Wen said China's per capita military expenditures remained
far below those of developed nations and even some fellow
developing countries.


Chinese military officials and outside analysts have said Beijing
is beefing up its armed forces in part to be able to take back
Taiwan by force if necessary.


China and Taiwan have been separated since the end of a civil war
in 1949, but Beijing still considers the island part of its
territory and bridles at the pro- independence sentiment of its
current president, Chen Shui-bian.

