

Paul Le Guen's struggling Paris Saint Germain make the
troublesome trip away to mid-table Rennes on Sunday in a bid to
drag themselves out of the drop zone.


PSG sit second-from-bottom in the French league just two points
above basement side Sedan and one point below Nantes.


And despite a consolatory chance to qualify for the Champions
League quarter- finals on Thursday, the sights of coach Le Guen
and his players are firmly angled towards what could be an
embarrassing descent into the French second division next term.


"We are very disappointed, of course it's a serious situation,
very complicated, but you can't just give up." said PSG's
Portuguese hitman Pedro Pauleta.


At the other end of the table Lens, second in the league, will
look to put their European Cup exit behind them when they
negotiate their away game at mid-table Auxerre.


Lens were dumped out of the UEFA Cup on Wednesday by German
giants Bayern Leverkusen 4-2 on aggregate and will now
concentrate on holding second spot in the table in order to
compete in the Champions league next term.


League leaders Lyon travel to Nancy on Saturday, who occupy 13th
place in the league.


However Lyon boss Gerard Houllier will be without the services of
Cris, Anthony Reveillere, Florent Malouda and Jeremy Toulalan who
will miss the encounter through suspension.


Veteren striker Sylvain Wiltord is doubtful for the clash after
spending the week on the treatment table but the club have not
clarified his injury.


Gregory Coupet, Malouda, Kim Kallstrom and Eric Abidal, who
return from the all- star friendly match against at Manchester
United on Tuesday to celebrate 50 years of the European Union,
are likely to make the trip.


While Brazilian midfielder Juninho, who on Tuesday hinted at a
possible exit from the French champions if his contract wasn't
extended by two years to 2010, will join his team-mates in a bid
to bounce back from their disappointing 1-1 draw against
Marseille last weekend.


The battle for third place in the table will be hotly-contested
this weekend as three clubs on the same amount of points could
see themselves sitting in the all-important Champions League
European playoff spot.


Lille, who currently lie third, will try and close in on Lens in
second, or at least hold on to their position in the table when
they welcome Le Mans.


Le Mans will have to shuffle the squad slightly with midfielder
Mathieu Coutadeur and Brazilian forward Tulio de Melo doubtful to
play with rib and hip problems respectively.


Fourth-placed Toulouse, who travel to table rivals Sochaux
without defenders Lucien Aubey (thigh), Issoumaila Dao (ankle)
and midfielder Anthony Robic with a groin injury, could jump up
to third with a win if Lille were defeated or draw at home.


Which is also the case for Bordeaux. Ricardo Gomes' Bordeaux, who
are in fifth position, will look to bag all three points when
they make the away trip to bottom-of-the-league Sedan.


If Lille and Toulouse fail to produce the goods in their
respective games, Bordeaux could see themselves climb the league
ladder to third place.


French league fixtures


Saturday


AS Nancy v Lyon, Lille v Le Mans, Marseille v Nice, Monaco v
Nantes, Sedan v Bordeaux, Sochaux v Toulouse, St Etienne v
Troyes, Valenciennes v Lorient


Sunday


Auxerre v Lens, Rennes v PSG

