

The sectarian conflict raging in Iraq four years after the US-led
invasion has provoked an exodus of two million refugees and left
some once-bustling districts of Baghdad all but deserted.


But, while many businesses have suffered, one at least has
prospered.


"Trade is good! It's going well," smiles Safea Ali, a 36-year-old
shopkeeper who specialises in the one product that every war
weary Iraqi family can't do without -- luggage, and lots of it.


His shop is packed with gleaming new arrivals; suitcases, travel
bags, all kinds of trunks. Sales are booming, and new deliveries
regularly restock his shelves as one family after another packs
its bags to flee.


"People always need suitcases. They go on holiday when things are
good. They leave when things go bad. They travel to visit their
families and they store things at home. What model are you
after?" he asks impishly.


Splashes of colour in a city of dusty concrete and barbed wire,
heavy duty luggage spills out from shops and on to pavement
displays in the central Baghdad districts of Rusafa and Karrada.


In some areas, eight or nine shops succeed each other one after
the other, selling almost identical models of bags. Prices per
suitcase range between 20,000 and 50,000 dinars (15 to 40
dollars).


Such plenty amid misery is easy, if disheartening, to explain.


Tuesday will be the fourth anniversary of the war in Iraq.


Since the conflict began, two million Iraqis have fled the
country outright and 1.8 million more have been displaced within
its borders, according to figures compiled by the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees.


Every month 50,000 more Iraqis leave for foreign lands in what
has become the biggest exodus in the Middle East since
Palestinians left the new country of Israel in 1948 to become
stateless refugees.


More than 600,000 Iraqis and perhaps as many as a million are now
in Syria, some 750,000 are in Jordan and at least 120,000 in
Egypt.


Some of those who took flight are wealthy.


The Iraqi middle class is fleeing the envy of those who suffered
under Saddam Hussein's former regime, the greed of kidnappers and
the fury of extremists opposed to the trappings of secular
modernity.


Property prices are spiralling in places like the Jordanian
capital Amman as well-to-do Iraqis invest in real estate.


Other refugees are poor; twice exiled Palestinians fleeing as
their parents did, members of minority sects and Sunnis fleeing
Shiite areas, and vice versa. Whether rich or poor, all need
something to hold their belongings.


"Often those who buy a case have never travelled before, they
don't have a lot of bags. Some have never flown in plane before
the one they board to get out of here," says 64-year-old luggage
merchant Fadhel Abbas.


"People tell me they're leaving. Most are leaving the country,
but others are just moving from one district to another," adds
Abbas, who gave up his job as a photographer to get a slice of
the burgeoning travel bag market.


But, even if he's now making a good living serving the needs of
the refugees, he doesn't seem to be getting any joy out of it.


"Violence and terrorism make it impossible to live here. Iraq is
a becoming a country of the dead," he sighs, an old man working
alone in a dusty shop piled high with shiny new "Made in China"
merchandise.


Where are his children? What do they do? Abbas can't answer,
overcome by a painful memory. Instead tears run down his elderly
face.

