

South Korea's POSCO, the world's third largest steelmaker, said
Friday it is stepping up its defences to thwart any hostile
takeover attempt amid reports Arcelor Mittal is looking at the
company.


"The company will acquire more friendly shares for stable
management," a POSCO official told AFP, adding that shareholders
counted as friendly to the management now controlled 40 percent
of the company.


"This will help POSCO thwart a possible takeover bid by foreign
firms."


In January, shareholders approved POSCO's proposal to ease rules
on selling new shares to strategic partners following talks here
between chairman Lee Ku-Taek and Arcelor Mittal senior executive
Roland Junck.


Arcelor Mittal, the world's biggest steelmaker, and POSCO are
jostling for dominance in the rapidly growing Asian markets led
by China and India.


On Friday, the Korea Economic Daily quoted an unidentified POSCO
executive as saying Junck had expressed an interest in POSCO's
strategy concerning mergers and acquisitions.


POSCO's management is studying how to react to a possible bid
from Arcelor Mittal, it added.


POSCO said Friday there had been no discussion of a merger or
acquisition with Arcelor Mittal.


The South Korean company forged an alliance with Japan's Nippon
Steel, the world's second largest steeelmaker after Arcelor
Mittal, in 2000 to better position itself for a global
realignment in the industry.


In October last year, they agreed to increase stakes in each
other after Mittal Steel acquired rival Arcelor of Luxembourg to
create the world's largest steel group. Nippon Steel now holds a
five percent stake in POSCO.


POSCO's 2006 sales were 20.04 trillion won (21.3 billion
dollars), down 7.6 percent, as operating profit tumbled 34.2
percent to 3.89 trillion won, hurt by a fall in steel prices and
higher raw material prices.


But its share price has risen sharply recently on speculation
that the steelmaker, which is more than 60 percent owned by
foreign investors, may become a target for a takeover attempt by
Arcelor Mittal.

