

Isaac Daniel hopes the next time someone wears his sneakers, the
footwear may prove to be life saving.


The 38-year-old engineer and one-time United Nations scientific
analyst has developed a line of running shoes with a tiny Global
Positioning System (GPS) chip that can locate the wearer anywhere
in the world with the press of a button.


Daniel said the 350-dollar (265-euro) sneakers, which he believes
can help save children in trouble or even Alzheimer patients,
will hit stores in May or June with more than 30,000 orders
already pouring in from retailers worldwide.


About 2,000 people who have placed orders online are expected to
receive the shoes in April.


A children's line is due out this fall.


Military and health care officials in several countries have
meanwhile expressed interest in the product.


Daniel said he got the idea for the GPS shoes after his eight-
year-old son in 2002 was mistakenly listed as missing from
school.


"After that incident I began doing research on missing children
and I found that this happens mainly with children ages eight,
nine, 10 and teens," Daniel, who is based in Miami, Florida, told
AFP. "I just kept going with the research until I found a
solution."


The solution was a line of men's and women's sneakers in 19 color
combinations outfitted with a GPS chip that communicates with
four international satellites.


In the event of trouble the wearer can activate the chip by
pressing a button on the sneaker for at least six seconds. The
emergency signal is then transmitted to a 24-monitoring service
that costs 20 dollars a month.


Daniel said once the alarm is raised the monitoring service
notifies authorities.


He said in the event of a missing child or Alzheimer patient, a
parent or caregiver can call the monitoring service which can
activate the GPS remotely to pinpoint the whereabouts of the
wearer.


"When you press the button it has to be an emergency because we
will call to verify that something is wrong and then we'll send
law enforcement," Daniel said. "So people will have to realize
how seriously we take that."


He said parents will have to teach their children not to activate
the GPS button for fun just as they drill into them the
importance of calling the police only in an emergency.


"If the kids push the button for fun, their mom will have to pay
for it," Daniel said.


He added that his company was also developing a plug-and-wear
version of the sneakers that allows the wearer to remove the GPS
chip and fit it into another model.


Next on his agenda, he said, is a "cell phone shoe" and a "game
shoe."


The "cell phone" version will have all the technology of a cell
phone embedded in the shoe and will allow the wearer to use
Bluetooth wireless technology. The "game shoe" will act as a
storage base for all of the wearer's game memory, Daniel said.

