

Bermuda may have suffered a humiliating defeat on their World Cup
debut against Sri Lanka here, but skipper Irving Romaine says the
experience matters more for his team than the result.


"We were all emotional and it showed in a couple of early overs.
The experience is amazing for us," Romaine said after his side
crashed to a 243-run defeat in their opening match at the Queen's
Park Oval here on Thursday.


"It was a wonderful experience. Some of the old players were also
there. They are disappointed with the result, but they know it is
a special day for Bermuda."


Bermuda failed to cope with the Sri Lankan seamers and were
dismissed for a paltry 78 chasing a mammoth 322-run target, with
Fraveez Maharoof (4-23) and Lasith Malinga (3-10) doing the
maximum damage.


"I think we have done well playing against Sri Lanka. We have
seen them score more than 400 runs against the Netherlands (at
Amstelveen) last year," said the Bermudian skipper.


Romaine said his batsmen found it difficult to read Malinga, a
seamer with a deceptive round-arm action who rattled Bermuda with
three early wickets.


"We did okay in the field, but the frontline batsmen could not
handle Malinga. Tackling that style (of bowling) was a new
experience for all of us. I hope our top order gets some runs in
the remaining two matches," he said.


India and Bangladesh are other sides in Group B, with the top two
qualifying for the next Super Eight stage.


Bermuda are one of the six non-Test-playing nations in the fray,
others being the Netherlands, Scotland, Ireland, Canada and
Kenya.


Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene believed the minnows could
improve if they played more matches against big teams.


"We also didn't stretch the West Indies or England in the 1975
World Cup, but we came back strongly to win in 1996," he said.


"There should be a proper development and I'm sure the ICC
(International Cricket Council) is monitoring the progress of
these countries. The more games they play at this level, the more
they will improve.


"For us, it is always good to have these countries playing in big
tournaments. That was how we learnt. Hopefully, they will do the
same. We have to take into consideration that they are making
their debut."

