

Holders Sevilla edged through at Shakhtar Donetsk of Ukraine on
Thursday to move into the UEFA Cup quarter-finals along with
other winners on the night, AZ Alkmaar, Espanyol and Benfica.


Sevilla won 5-4 on aggregate due to their extra-time winning goal
from Uruguayan striker Ernesto Chevanton after his teammates Enzo
Maresca and goalkeeper Andres Palop scored in regulation time.


Brazilian midfielders Matuzalem and Blumer Elano were on target
for the hosts.


In other matches, Benfica knocked out Paris Saint Germain with a
late penalty from Simao to win 3-1 on the night and 4-3 on
aggregate, Espanyol thrashed Israel's Maccabi Haifa 4-0 to go
through on aggregate by the same scoreline, and AZ Alkmaar turned
round a 4-2 first leg deficit to sneak through on away goals
against England's Newcastle.


Wednesday night's winners of Tottenham, Werder Bremen, Osasuna
and Bayer Leverkusen will complete the line-up for Friday's draw.


Paris Saint Germain's Portuguese striker Pauleta told French
television on the final whistle: "We started well and the team
was very organised. In the second half we played well." And on
the late penalty decision, Pauleta said: "That's how it is. I
think we gave our all but it wasn't enough."


PSG are having a tough time this season and lie second from
bottom in the French league.


Sevilla, who desperately needed to win after last week's 2-2 home
draw, looked more focused from the start and seized the
initiative soon after the kick-off.


Shakhtar went ahead in the 49th minute when skipper Matuzalem
sent the ball into the net with an overhead heel shot from Olexiy
Belik's precise left-handed cross.


But Sevilla replied positively and levelled just four minutes
later through Maresca, who converted Daniel Alves's right-handed
cross past an unguarded post with a 12-metre header.


Later the visitors threw caution to the wind trying to score the
winning goal and allowed late substitute Elano to beat their
defence on a breakaway to send the ball home with a close-range
shot from a tight angle.


The hosts were ready to celebrate their first ever UEFA Cup
quarter-final, when 'keeper Palop levelled again with a header
from a well-placed corner in the fourth minute of injury time.


Second-half substitute Chevanton netted the winning goal just
before the end of the first extra-time period, sending the ball
in from close range past the helpless Shust from Luis Fabiano's
razor-sharp ball into Shakhtar's box.


AZ Alkmaar turned round a 4-2 first leg deficit to sneak through
to the quarter- finals on the away goals rule at home to
England's Newcastle.


Alkmaar won 2-0 on the night for a 4-4 aggregate score to
complete a remarkable turn around having been down 3-0 after just
23 minutes of the away leg.


Alkmaar coach Louis van Gaal said he felt his side were the
better over the two legs. "We scored two chances but we had three
or four one-on-ones against the goalkeeper so we could have
decided the match earlier," he said.


"Newcastle are a top team and this match was the best match we
could have played because they know how to defend."

