

England play Wales in their final Six Nations game here Saturday
with an outside chance of winning this season's title, while the
hosts are staring down the barrel of finishing winless and with
the wooden spoon.


England will start the match at the Millennium Stadium as
favourites after their impressive 26-18 win over France at
Twickenham last weekend, with their sole loss of the tournament
coming in the record 43-13 defeat to Ireland.


But it has been a Six Nations that has thrown up some shock
results and England players were quick not to write off Wales's
chances, especially playing at home after a disastrous run of
three losses in three back-to-back away games.


"They are a very proud team, especially in Cardiff," said centre
Mathew Tait, in for Mike Tindall (knee infection) and preparing
to return to the ground where he made his nightmarish Test debut
two years ago.


"We are under no illusions and we are not underestimating the
Welsh team at all. They are littered with quality players, so we
take them very seriously."


Coach Brian Ashton has called up Mark Cueto at full-back in place
of Josh Lewsey while Wasps flanker James Haskell was also named
as a late starting replacement for the injured Nick Easter
(neck).


Captain Phil Vickery (concussion), fly-half Jonny Wilkinson
(hamstring) and centre Andy Farrell (back) were not considered
for selection.


Under-pressure Wales coach Gareth Jenkins, who has yet to record
a victory over a side ranked in the top 10 in the world, drew
more fire after he named an unchanged team from the one that lost
23-20 to Italy last weekend.


But the embattled coach was forced - much to the delight of the
majority of the Welsh public - into rejigging his backline after
skipper Stephen Jones pulled out with a previously unreported
wrist injury.


The impressive James Hook will play at number 10 with talismanic
Toulouse back Gareth Thomas taking back the captain's armband at
inside centre.


"We believe in their talents and we don't think we are very far
away from putting the kind of performances together that will
start winning us matches," Jenkins said of his team.


"A week is a long time in rugby and things can change around, as
England proved with an impressive victory at Twickenham last
week.


"They are always strong at home, they have a good scrum and are
well organised, but they are coming to the Millennium Stadium
with 74,500 people creating a magnificent atmosphere and we will
be looking to make sure our fans don't go home disappointed."


Should Wales, who won the Grand Slam only two years ago, beat
England they must hope that France have disposed of Scotland in
convincing fashion earlier on Saturday to have any hope of
avoiding the wooden spoon.

