

E-mails released by the Justice Department Thursday implicated
President George W. Bush's top political aide Karl Rove in a
growing political scandal over purged government prosecutors.


The e-mails added fire to calls for an investigation and for the
resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales over the
extraordinary firing last year of eight US attorneys for reasons
which the attorneys have claimed were wholly political.


Opposition Democrats have accused the White House and Gonzales of
politicizing the justice system by firing prosecutors who did not
support Republican interests.


The e-mails show Rove, Bush's deputy chief of staff, active in
discussions in January 2005 between White House and Justice
Department officials, including Gonzales's chief of staff, Kyle
Sampson, about replacing some of the 93 US attorneys.


Earlier e-mails released by the department also tied then-White
House counsel Harriet Miers to the discussions.


But in a statement released Thursday the Justice Department said
that Gonzales himself remembers no such discussions at that time,
when he was preparing to move from White House counsel to the top
job at Justice.


"The attorney general has no recollection of any plan or
discussion to replace US attorneys while he was still White House
counsel," said spokeswoman Tasia Scolinos.


The controversy broke last week when some of the attorneys told
Congress they were fired because they resisted pressure from
Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases.


On Monday Sampson resigned abruptly after documents were released
showing his extensive contacts with members of Bush's staff and
other politicians over the firings.


Some of the documents suggested their removal was not simply for
"performance reasons," as the Justice Department first claimed.


While the White House and Justice Department have the right to
appoint and remove the 93 US attorneys -- who investigate and
prosecute court cases for the government -- replacements are
usually only carried out at the beginning of a president's
administration.


"We're finding more and more evidence of political manipulation
of prosecutors," said Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy Wednesday,
according to a transcript of an interview he gave CNN television
network.


Leahy accused Gonzales of misleading the Senate Judiciary
Committee, which he chairs, and said he was ready to subpoena top
Bush administration officials to testify on the issue, including
Rove and Miers.


Bush, however, insisted Wednesday that Gonzales simply had not
adequately explained the firings, which he characterized as
"entirely appropriate."


"What was mishandled was the explanation of the cases to the
Congress," he told reporters.

