

A UN commission probing the killing of former Lebanese prime
minister Rafiq Hariri reported some progress in its investigation
Thursday and asked for its mandate to be extended.


The UN panel, headed by Belgian judge Serge Brammertz, has been
investigating the February 2005 killing of Hariri and 22 others
in a massive bomb blast in Beirut for more than a year and had
been due to report in June.


"In light of the current and planned investigative activities, it
is unlikely that the commission will complete its work before its
current mandate expires in June 2007," the report, the
commission's seventh, said.


"The commission therefore welcomes the request for an extension
of its mandate beyond this date," it said.


The commission also reported "progress in collecting new evidence
and in expanding the forms of evidence collected" and described
the cooperation of the Syrian government in the investigation as
"satisfactory."


"The commission continues to receive responses from the Syrian
Arab Republic, which provides information and facilitates
interviews with individuals located on Syrian territory," it
said.


The UN probe has implicated top level Syrian figures and alleged
Lebanese accomplices in Hariri's assassination, but Syria has
denied any involvement.


One of the intermediate reports produced by Brammertz's
predecessor, Detlev Mehlis, had accused Syria of not cooperating
in the investigation.


In his last report, Brammertz criticized the slow response of 10
unidentified countries in responding to his requests but the
commission said it had since held meetings with the ambassadors
from the countries concerned.


"As a result of these meetings, almost all outstanding matters
were resolved to the commission's satisfaction," it said.


The probe into the bomb itself had found seismological evidence
that supported the theory of a single explosion, most likely
above ground.


For its next report, the commission is expecting to have
comparative data on other explosions that have occurred in
Beirut.


It will also aim to determine the origin of the presumed bomber,
based on DNA testing and isotope analysis of his remains, which
have already suggested the person did not grown up in Lebanon.


Hundreds of samples have been collected in Lebanon and Syria and
will soon be gathered from other countries to follow up on the
lead, the commission said, while cautioning that "results should
be carefully interpreted and the limitations clearly understood."


As to Ahmad Abu Adass, the man who claimed responsibility for the
attack in a video recording and who has since disappeared, the
report said he was "acquainted with individuals associated with
extremist groups at least because they attended the same place of
worship."


"A working hypothesis is that Ahmad Abu Adass was either coerced
or duped into making the video-taped claim of responsibility,"
the commission said.


"Thus the commission continues to investigate the various
possibilities concerning the group that executed the crime," it
said.


The commission was notably investigating Hariri's electoral
projects for 2005 in trying to find the motive for the killing.


Besides the Hariri affair, the Brammertz commission has also been
helping Lebanon investigate 16 other incidents, including the
killing of government minister Pierre Gemayel in November last
year and a double bomb attack on a village near Beirut last
month.


The move was aimed at finding any possible links between the
attacks.


Lebanon has been in turmoil since Hariri's killing, which has
been widely blamed on Syria. After the killing, Damascus was
forced to end its 29-year military domination of its small
neighbor.

