

Democrats failed to ram an Iraq troop withdrawal plan through the
Senate Thursday after first making headway on a similar move in
the House of Representatives to force an end to the war four
years after the US invasion.


Rancor between Congress's majority Democrats and President George
W. Bush and his Republican backers hardened amid fierce debate
over two bills advancing a timetable to get combat troops out of
Iraq's cauldron of violence next year.


The Senate rejected by 50 votes to 48 a Democratic bill which set
a goal of a withdrawal of troops by March 2008, in the latest
twist of a bitter political tussle over the war, which has
claimed 3,209 US lives.


One Democrat, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, voted against the measure,
while one Republican, Gordon Smith of Oregon, who has already
broken with the president over the war, voted with the Democrats.


Bush had threatened to veto the bill, accusing Democrats of
trying to micromanage the war and to handcuff his constitutional
powers as commander in chief.


"Today, the United States Senate wisely rejected a resolution
that would have placed an artificial timetable on our mission in
Iraq," he said in a speech to fellow Republicans after the vote.


"If we were to leave Iraq before the job is done, the enemy would
follow us to the United States of America and we're not going to
let it happen," he said.


Democrats had harbored little hope of piling up the 60 vote
super-majority they needed to assure passage, but their strategy
was designed to publicly tighten the screws on Republicans over
the unpopular war.


In the House, Democrats did succeed in forcing a separate attempt
to pull troops out of Iraq by September 2008 through the powerful
Appropriations Committee.


Members voted to insert the deadline in Bush's 120 billion dollar
budget request for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.


The full House is expected to consider the bill next week, but
Bush has also threatened to veto it if it finds its way to his
desk.


In the Senate, both sides claimed victory after their latest
fracas.


"We have had a very good day. The Republicans are rubber-stamping
the president's failed policy, that is the message here, said
Democratic majority leader Harry Reid.


Republican Minority leader Mitch McConnell however said the
Senate had made a landmark declaration against a precipitous
withdrawal from Iraq.


"I am very pleased that the majority of the Senate today
expressed themselves in opposition to a specific timeline for a
withdrawal of troops," he said.


"That is like sending a memo to the enemy: 'just hold on to a
certain date and we are out.'"


Senator Joseph Biden, Democratic chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee predicted Republican Senators would soon feel
rising political heat.


"It is only a matter of time before our Republican colleagues
come to that conclusion ... In the meantime a lot of innocent
lives are going to be lost."


In a clutch of Iraq votes, the Senate meanwhile voted 96-2 to
pass a Democratic bill expressing support for the troops in Iraq
and calling for the provision of adequate medical care when they
return home wounded.


The largely symbolic measure states that supporting the troops
also means giving them proper training before they are deployed.


Some Democrats have accused the Bush administration of sending
soldiers into harms way before they are ready to enter combat or
are properly equipped.


A third resolution, perceived by some as an attempt to force
Congress to finance all military operations, was also passed.


Congress theoretically has the power to cut funding for the war,
but Democrat leaders have so far declined to take the politically
explosive step that could be seen as deserting troops while they
are locked in combat.


Democrats believe they have a mandate from US voters to begin a
troop withdrawal, after winning control of Congress in November
elections and a stream of opinion polls showing strong public
support for leaving Iraq.


But Republicans have so far blocked all attempts to interfere
with Bush's surge strategy that will see more than 21,500 troops
deploy in a last-ditch attempt to pacify Iraq.

