

Democrats cranked up pressure on the White House over Iraq
Thursday, scoring an initial coup in the House of
Representatives, but then failed to ram a troop withdrawal plan
through the Senate.


Rancor between Congress's majority Democrats and President George
W. Bush and his Republican backers hardened amid fierce debate
over two bills advancing a timetable to get combat troops out of
Iraq's cauldron of violence next year.


The Senate rejected a Democratic bill by 50 votes to 48 which set
a goal of a withdrawal of troops by March 2008, in the latest
twist of a bitter political tussle sparked by a war which has
claimed 3,209 US lives.


One Democrat, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, voted against the measure,
while one Republican, Gordon Smith of Oregon, who has already
broken with the president over the war, voted with the Democrats.


Bush, who accuses Democrats of trying to micromanage the war and
of trying to handcuff his constitutional powers as commander in
chief, had threatened to veto the bill.


Democrats had harbored little hope of piling up the 60 vote
super-majority they needed to assure passage, but their strategy
was designed to publicly tighten the screws on Republicans over
the unpopular war.


In the House, Democrats did succeed in forcing a separate attempt
to pull troops out of Iraq by September 2008 through the powerful
Appropriations Committee.


Members voted to insert the deadline in Bush's 120 billion dollar
budget request for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, overriding
Republican opposition and in defiance of another presidential
veto threat.


The full House is expected to consider the bill next week.


In the Senate, both sides claimed victory after their latest
fracas, and immediately dug in for a new round of legislative
infighting over the war, likely to intensify with presidential
and congressional elections looming in 2008.


"We have had a very good day. The Republicans are rubber-stamping
the president's failed policy, that is the message here, said
Democratic majority leader Harry Reid.


"This is part of a process, a process to bring our troops home."


Senator Joseph Biden, Democratic chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee predicted Republican Senators would soon feel
rising political heat.


"It is only a matter of time before our Republican colleagues
come to that conclusion ... In the meantime a lot of innocent
lives are going to be lost."


Republican Minority leader Mitch McConnell however said the
Senate had made a landmark declaration against a precipitous
withdrawal from Iraq.


"I am very pleased that the majority of the Senate today
expressed themselves in opposition to a specific timeline for a
withdrawal of troops," he said.


"That is like sending a memo to the enemy: 'just hold on to a
certain date and we are out.'"


In a clutch of Iraq votes, the Senate also voted 96-2 to pass a
Democratic bill expressing support for the troops in Iraq and
calling for the provision of adequate medical care when they
return home wounded.


The largely symbolic measure states that supporting the troops
also means giving them proper training before they are deployed.


Some Democrats have accused the Bush administration of sending
soldiers into harms way before they are ready to enter combat or
are properly equipped.


A third resolution, perceived by some as an attempt to force
Congress to finance all military operations, was also passed.


Congress theoretically has the power to cut funding for the war,
but Democrat leaders have so far declined to take the politically
explosive step that could be seen as deserting troops while they
are locked in combat.


Democrats believe they have a mandate from US voters to begin a
troop withdrawal, after winning control of Congress in November
elections and a stream of opinion polls showing strong public
support for leaving Iraq.


But Republicans have so far blocked all attempts to interfere
with Bush's surge strategy that will see more than 21,500 troops
deploy in a last-ditch attempt to pacify Iraq.


US Vice President Dick Cheney led resistance to Democratic
tactics earlier this week in a speech to the powerful American
Israel Public Affairs Committee lobby group.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that's gone into fighting the global war on terror and
result in chaos and mounting danger," he said.


"For the sake of our own security, we will not stand by and let
it happen."

