

In-form Italy are out to ruin Ireland's St Patrick's Day
celebrations when the teams meet in the final round of Six
Nations matches here on Saturday.


Ireland are one of three countries realistically in the hunt for
the title, but the Triple Crown winners face an Italy side
brimming with confidence after an unprecedented two victories in
a Six Nations campaign.


The Italians are still mathematically in with a chance of winning
the tournament, but Ireland, who are level with France and
England on six points, are far better placed to become champions
than the Azzurri.


France, however, are the favourites as they have a better points
difference than their rivals and play at home to Scotland, who
have won just one of their four matches.


Back-to-back wins against Scotland and Wales have elevated Italy
to eighth in the world rankings - their highest ever position -
and Brian O'Driscoll is wary of the threat posed by the Azzurri
on the feast day of Ireland's patron saint.


"We're facing a very tough Italian side who are playing with a
lot of confidence," said the Irish captain.


"They have two wins on the bounce and they'll be looking to make
it their most successful Six Nations campaign ever."


O'Driscoll admitted his Ireland team will struggle if they play
like they did in last week's scrappy 19-18 win away to Scotland.


"We'll have a tough day at the office if we don't cut out the
errors and indiscipline that haunted us against Scotland and even
threatened to take the game away from us," said the Leinster
centre who will skipper the side for the 37th time on Saturday to
set a new Irish record.


O'Driscoll equalled Keith Wood's captaincy record of 36 games
when he led Ireland out in Edinburgh.


Italy coach Pierre Berbizier has made three changes to the side
that started last week's 23-20 victory at home to Wales.


Ezio Galon replaces the injured Gonzalo Canale at centre and
Maurizio Zaffiri comes in for suspended flanker Mauro Bergamasco.
Bergamasco was banned for four weeks for hitting Wales captain
Stephen Jones in the face.


The final change sees prop Salvatore Perugini called up for the
flu-stricken Andrea Lo Cicero.


Italy captain Marco Bortolami admitted the loss of Bergamasco,
Canale and Lo Cicero will be sorely felt. "They are three
important players for us, so it will be very difficult," he said.


"Ireland will be favourites. In O'Driscoll and (Gordon) D'Arcy
they have two of the best centres in the world, while (fly-half
Ronan) O'Gara can score from anywhere on the pitch.


"They play the most attractive rugby in Europe and their scrum is
very intelligent."


Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan has made one change to the team
that started against the Scots.


Paul O'Connell has been ruled out after fracturing his thumb last
weekend, so his Munster team-mate Mick O'Driscoll moves up from
the bench to replace him.


Rugby is normally a poor relation to football in Italy, but the
team's best-ever Six Nations campaign has captured the
imagination of the Italian public.


Saturday's match is a 28,000 sell-out while black market tickets
have reportedly been changing hands for up to 10 times face
value. The game will also be shown live on giant screens in the
city centres of Rome and Milan.


Berbizier is looking to exploit a wave of euphoria rarely
associated with the oval ball game in Italy. "The players can
feel the enthusiasm of the public and that will help us," said
the Frenchman.

