

Canadian supporters of seal-hunting launched a campaign on
Thursday to defend their livelihood as opponents of the practice
staged demonstrations to mark an international day of protest.


Hunters, fur industry representatives and Inuit leaders said they
were determined to counter the arguments set out by their
opponents.


"Anti-sealing groups have been spreading misinformation regarding
the seal harvest for many, many years for no other reason other
than to line their own pockets," said Tom Rideout, Newfoundland
and Labrador fisheries and aquaculture minister.


"They continue to exploit out of date and illegal practices that
no longer exist. They continually use photos involving the
harvest of white coats. This is a complete disregard of the
truth, and as it has been illegal to harvest white coats and
bluebacks since 1987," Rideout told reporters.


Demonstrators in Montreal and other Canadian cities meanwhile
denounced the "cruelty" of seal hunting.


In the past three years, some one million seals have been killed
as part of the commercial hunt in eastern Canada, which animal
rights groups call "the largest marine mammal massacre in the
world."


The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) demanded
Wednesday the Canadian government cancel the hunt this year
because of what it called the worrying absence of seals and the
poor quality of ice in the Gulf of Saint-Lawrence.


Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal population
which is estimated at 5.4 million.


The advocates of seal hunting had sent two Inuit hunters and
another from Newfoundland to The Hague to appear before the Dutch
parliament in a visit organized with financial assistance from
the Canadian government.


Protests against seal hunting took place in several European
cities, including The Hague, Paris and Madrid.


Canada's minister of fisheries and oceans, Loyola Hearn, said in
a statement that the opponents of seal hunting were presenting a
"biased" view of a practice that he called "sustainable,
economically viable and culturally significant."


Hearn said he welcomed a decision by the European Commission to
send a team of veterinarians to assess whether the hunt is
carried out in a humane way.


Canada has yet to announce quota figures for this year's seal
hunt. Authorities set a quota of 335,000 last year.

