

The haze that has blanketed northern Thailand for nearly two
weeks may have been caused by freak weather patterns, experts
say, warning of possible serious long- term health concerns.


While authorities in the northern tourist hotspot of Chiang Mai
have urged tribal farmers to stop burning their fields and even
banned street vendors from grilling meats, experts say unusual
weather patterns are more likely to blame.


The haze, caused by slash-and-burn farming and wildfires in
northern Thailand and parts of Laos and Myanmar, has choked eight
northern Thai provinces for nearly two weeks, affecting some five
million people.


Experts believe the cold winter may have trapped the smoke close
to the ground and prevented it from dissipating in the
atmosphere.


Montree Chantawong, an environmental activist with a Thai
organisation called Towards Ecological Recovery and Regional
Alliance, said the haze could be the result of an unusually long
winter in northern Thailand.


The high pressure system associated with the cool weather may
have prevented the smoke from rising high into the atmosphere, he
said.


"Normally in March the weather will reach a higher temperature,
so the smoke will dilute automatically," he added.


Earlier this week, air pollution in Chiang Mai was three times
the level considered healthy, prompting the government to pass
out hundreds of thousands of surgical masks and to urge children
and the elderly to stay indoors.


Air quality has since improved but remains dangerously high,
health authorities say.


Vendors on the streets of Chiang Mai who are usually seen
grilling meats for sale have all been shut down, but the city
smells of smoke everywhere.


The government has also stepped up its patrols to stamp out
forest fires in the hills.


Ja Phet, a retired farmer from the hill tribes along Thailand's
border with Myanmar, said farmers normally burn their fields at
this time of year, but he struggled to think of a time when their
activities had caused such a dense haze.


"Burning of farmland is a regular activity for hill farmers in
this season, but this amount of smoke is unusual," Ja Phet said.


At the famed Doi Suthep mountain near Chiang Mai -- a pilgrimage
site with a temple believed to hold a relic of Buddha -- signs
warned visitors of the high risk of wildfires.


From the mountain top, the city below was barely visible through
the haze.


Rains that normally wet the soil in northern Thailand in January
also failed to arrive this year, making conditions perfect for
wildfires, Montree added.


Steve Thompson, who heads an environmental group called Images
Asia - EDesk, said the El Nino weather pattern over the Pacific
Ocean may have caused the unusual temperatures in northern
Thailand.


El Nino is the occasional warming of the central and eastern
Pacific Ocean that typically happens every four to seven years
and disrupts weather patterns from the western seaboard of Latin
America to East Africa for 12-18 months.


It has been blamed for flooding in the Horn of Africa and
Bolivia, more severe winter monsoons in South Asia, and a lengthy
drought in Australia.


James Fahn, author of a book called "A Land on Fire" on the
environmental effects of Southeast Asia's economic boom, compared
the haze to the far larger Indonesian one that blanketed much of
the region in 1997.


"What we don't know is the long term health impact" of such
environmental disasters, he said.


"This kind of haze is like smoking cigarettes, but with a
cigarette, you only take one once in a while. This is continuous.
So the big question is that doctors are afraid that in the future
they will be higher incidents of lung cancer," Fahn added.

