

Four years after a US-led invasion billed as a bid to disarm Iraq
and create a democratic pro-Western enclave in the Middle East,
the country is instead steeped in sectarian bloodshed.


Former dictator Saddam Hussein has been overthrown and executed
and none of his alleged weapons of mass destruction were found,
but, far from heading home, American forces are stepping up their
commitment.


Commanders are in fact pouring 25,000 reinforcements into Baghdad
to quell Sunni-Shiite fighting, the bloodiest element of the
conflict and one which even the Pentagon admits now amounts to
civil war.


In western and northern Iraq, Al-Qaeda militants pursue their
brutal insurgency against the US-backed government, while in the
south and centre Shiite militias jostle for supremacy and control
of oil resources.


The recent launch of a joint US-Iraqi security plan in Baghdad
has driven some sectarian death squads from the streets, but
insurgent car bombs still go off every day, scattering bloody
debris through crowded markets.


"There has been a steady decline in the Iraq situation since the
invasion. Things have gone from bad to worse," said Joost
Hiltermann, Middle East project director for the International
Crisis Group, a respected think tank.


The raw figures do not tell the whole story of a complex
conflict, but they make grim reading.


Since the conflict began, two million Iraqis have fled the
country outright and 1.8 million more have been displaced within
its borders, according to figures compiled by the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees.


Estimates of Iraqi civilian casualties from the war vary wildly,
but the website Iraq Body Count's figure of 58,800 is among the
more conservative. The Iraqi government said 1,440 people were
killed in January alone.


At least 3,203 American, 132 British and 124 other coalition
soldiers have died since their invasion. December was the
deadliest month in two years for the multinational force,
increasing pressure for a withdrawal.


The Pentagon's quarterly report on the conflict, released on
Wednesday, said the last four months of 2006 were the most
violent since fighting began and that the number of attacks
continued to increase into 2007.


A chart in the report showed that average weekly attacks between
January 1, 2007 and February 9 exceeded 1,000, compared to a
weekly average in the last six months of 2006 of about 900.


"Some elements of the situation in Iraq are properly descriptive
of a 'civil war,' including the hardening of ethno-sectarian and
politically motivated violence, and population displacements,"
the Pentagon noted.


Even these statistics may underestimate the scale of the carnage.


According to last year's Iraq Study Group report by a bipartisan
panel of US policy experts, the Pentagon's method of collecting
figures for these reports reflects "significant underreporting of
the violence".


By any standards, Iraq is a country deep in crisis, but do the
statistics and the daily news stories of bomb attacks and
sectarian slaughter tell the whole story? Iraq's government
thinks not.


"Four years since the invasion, according to most people
worldwide, we are not doing good, not doing great," admitted
Bassem Ridha, a senior adviser to Iraq's embattled Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki.


"But if you look at the history of mankind, every time you have a
change -- an overnight change -- this kind of bloodshed is
expected. Nothing is easy when we have a change, and a change
like this was the biggest in the region.


"A vicious individual like Saddam was overthrown. We are making
efforts. There are good things. I will name some.


"Number one: Now we have freedom. Every Iraqi can express his
wish without fear. In the old days he could not do that. Now we
have so many parties, so many newspapers, so many TV stations. In
Saddam's time only two TV stations.


"No satellites. If you had satellite dish you would be executed,
you would disappear. There were no mobiles, no Internet. An
average Iraqi income was five dollars a month. Today it is 250
dollars," he told AFP this week.


Ridha noted the writing of an Iraqi constitution, endorsed by
referendum, and the creation of a government of national unity by
an elected parliament -- with 25 percent of its members women --
as a good basis for progress.


"People do not acknowledge these things. Keep in mind that when
we took over this government, we had no infrastructure. We were
in the Stone Age. We are now in the process of building the
country from scratch," he added.


US commanders, with a wary eye on plummeting public and political
support for the war back home, also point to reconstruction and
economic development efforts as the great untold story of the
war.


Last month, Brigadier General Michael Walsh of the Army Corps of
Engineers said his troops had built or rebuilt 976 schools, 154
border forts, 92 fire stations, 32 post offices and 93 railway
stations.


"Americans should see the photos of Iraqi children being educated
in clean, safe learning environments. Americans should see
infants being cared for in modern medical facilities," he
complained to reporters.


Nevertheless, the violence and the corruption that has dogged
Iraq's post- invasion reconstruction efforts have delayed much
progress. Iraq today generates 4,200 megawatts of electricity,
slightly less than under Saddam.


Meanwhile, a series of US security operations has so far failed
to fill the security vacuum caused by Washington's decision to
disband Iraq's Saddam-era armed forces and open the field to Al-
Qaeda and Iranian-backed militia.


For Hiltermann, the situation is bleak: "The real challenge now
is not just to stop the sectarian violence but to contain it
within the borders of Iraq."

