

The chances of surviving a heart attack outside a hospital double
if a bystander performs chest-compressions but omits the mouth-
to-mouth resuscitation widely regarded as part of standard rescue
procedure, according to a study released Friday.


Nearly everyone has witnessed the scene dozens of times on
television, and perhaps a time or two in real life: someone,
mostly likely a man getting on in years, collapses to the
pavement clutching his chest.


A take-charge passerby drops to his side, pinches the victim's
nose and begins mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, alternating this
treatment by pushing repeatedly and vigorously on his chest.


But there is something wrong with this textbook picture of CPR --
shorthand for cardio-pulmonary resuscitation -- according to the
study, published in the British journal The Lancet: it does more
harm than good.


Not only is there "no evidence for any benefit from the addition
of mouth-to- mouth ventilation," writes Ken Nagao, a doctor at
the Nihon University hospital in Tokyo who led the study of more
than 4000 heart arrest cases in the Kanto area of Japan.


The chances of surviving with a "favorable neurological outcome"
are twice as high when would-be rescuers skip the mouth-to-mouth
and focus exclusively on trying to revive the heart by rhythmic
chest-compressions.


"This finding ... should lead to a prompt interim revision of the
guidelines for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest," wrote Gordon Ewy,
director of the University of Arizona's Sarver Heart Center, in a
commentary.


The purpose of pushing air into a heart attack victim's lungs is
to oxygenate the blood, while the massaging the chest aim to
restart the heart or re- establish a regular heart-beat.


But this first-ever, large-scale comparison of survival rates of
cardiac arrest patients puts the lie to the standard CPR
technique, which has been taught to millions of people around the
world, wrote Ewy.


"We have found that the survival rate is higher even when the
blood has less oxygen content but is moved through the body by
continuous chest compressions," he noted.


If results of the Japanese study are used to revise the standard
guidelines for helping cardiac arrest victims before medical
professionals arrive at the scene, it could, in fact, have
another positive effect: more people might be willing to try.


Of the 4,068 adults examined who had heart attacks witnessed by
strangers, 439 received cardiac-only resuscitation and 712 were
given conventional CPR.


But 2,917 -- more than 70 percent -- were left to fend for
themselves.


"Studies have shown that because current CPR guidelines call for
mouth-to-mouth ventilations, the majority of people would not
perform CPR on a stranger, partly out of fear of contracting
diseases," said Ewy.


While the study provides what Ewy called "unequivocal evidence"
that chest- compression-only resuscitation improves survival
rates, the authors of the study caution that the same does not
apply to respiratory failure brought on by near- drowning, drug
overdose or choking.


In these cases, they say, an alternation of two breaths and 30
chest compressions is still the appropriate method.

