

Fiji's military government indicated at talks with other Pacific
nations Friday that elections could be held before 2010,
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said.


"The Fijians originally were saying it was going to happen in
three years, now they are saying it could be a bit quicker than
that, they are prepared to be flexible on the time frame," he
said.


Downer was speaking to reporters in Vanuatu after foreign
ministers from the 16-nation Pacific Islands Forum met to discuss
a report by an eminent persons group on the December coup led by
military commander Voreqe Bainimarama.


The ministers said in a statement they backed the demand in the
report that the interim government should commit to a firm
timetable for a national election within 18 months and two years,
if not sooner.


"Ministers agreed that the forum should commence a staged process
of engagement with the interim government to that end," the
statement said.


They recommended that if the military government demonstrated
commitment to ending human rights abuses and to a roadmap back to
democracy, a phased package of financial and technical assistance
would be offered.


This would include "support for the electoral process, assistance
for the establishment of a credible and independent anti-
corruption commission, and assistance to restore and maintain the
independence of the judiciary."


New Zealand's Foreign Minister Winston Peters said a working
group was being established as a contact point with the Fijian
interim government and would report back in three months.


"The decision taken today means, in effect, that they will be
requested to have elections by August 2008," he said, referring
to the timeframe set out by the eminent persons group.


"I think the Fijian interim government knows that the
international community means business, and so does the forum,"
he told the New Zealand Press Association.


Downer said there were "a lot of hard words exchanged" at the
meeting, but there were no plans by small Pacific nations to
impose sanctions on Fiji, as Australia, the United States and New
Zealand have done.


Bainimarama staged the coup after accusing prime minister
Laisenia Qarase's government of corruption and of favouring the
indigenous majority over the ethnic Indian minority.

