

Striking Airbus workers in their tens of thousands are to rally
Europe-wide Friday to protest a sweeping restructuring plan
calling for massive job cuts at the troubled aircraft
manufacturer.


Trade unions predict staff at all Airbus sites in Europe will
walk off the job and hold protest meetings to increase pressure
against the company's "Power8" restructuring scheme and the
proposed elimination of 10,000 jobs.


In Hamburg, Germany, the powerful IG Metall union said it
expected 10,000 demonstrators to converge on the city centre.


An earlier day of protest in France on March 6 brought
12,000-15,000 people into the streets of Toulouse, southwest
France, where Airbus is based, and unions there were expecting
similar support.


In Britain, the Transport and General Workers' Union expected
several thousand people to back a demonstration in Chester, near
a factory at Broughton in Wales.


And in Spain, two unions, the CCOO and the UGT, have called on
9,000 workers at seven sites to protest.


Unions here issued a joint statement condemning "this
restructuring plan  which will have dramatic consequences but is
not justified."


The company insists its financial and production difficulties are
"extremely serious" and that it can no longer delay making cost
savings. But there is concern among analysts over whether the
Airbus parent company, the aerospace group EADS, and Airbus will
in fact be able to implement the full plan.


The cuts, together with the total or partial disposal of six
sites, are intended to save 5.0 billion euros (6.6 billion
dollars) by 2010 and pull the company out of a crisis caused by
delays to its A380 superjumbo programme, seen as critical to
Airbus' bid to catch up with US rival Boeing.


EADS last week published results revealing a first-ever operating
loss at Airbus of 572 million euros (752 million dollars) in 2006
in contrast to a profit of 2.3 billion euros in 2005.


Announcement of the restructuring on February 28 came amid
tension between French and German interests, which dominate the
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS), over where
cuts should fall.


It was also followed by signs of bickering between French and
German unions.


"We must not make the mistake of squabbling amongst ourselves --
what is important is to resist the Power8 plan together," the IG
Metall union said Thursday.


Airbus on Thursday received a much needed boost to its business
and credibility when two customers pledged new orders worth 23
billion euros (30 billion dollars).


Qatar Airways said it planned to buy 80 A350 jets for 17.2
billion dollars (13 billion euros) at catalogue prices, one of
the biggest orders in the history of Airbus, and Russian airline
Aeroflot said it would sign a deal for 22 more of the same
aircraft.


The contracts would be a huge win for the mid-sized, longhaul
A350 plane, which was withdrawn and relaunched by Airbus as the
A350XWB last year because of poor feedback on the original
version from potential customers.


Airbus launched the 10-billion-euro A350XWB project last year to
rival Boeing in the mid-sized jet segment of the market which the
US manufacturer has come to dominate with its 777 and extremely
popular new 787 Dreamliner.


News of the planned orders cheered investors. Shares of EADS,
which have shed about a quarter of their value over the last
year, rose 1.35 percent Thursday to close at 21.75 euros.

