

Cuba's ailing President Fidel Castro will eventually be fit
enough to resume the presidency he handed over to his younger
brother Raul in July, the communist state's parliamentary leader
said Thursday.


"I am certain he will be in perfect condition to continue
assuming this responsibility," Ricardo Alarcon told journalists
when asked if the older Castro would seek re-election in 2008.


Alarcon, one of Fidel Castro's close aides, made the statement
during a meeting held to prepare the March election of deputies
who will then name the communist- run island's head of state.


Castro, 80, who led Cuba since its 1959 revolution, handed over
power temporarily to his brother Raul, 75, on July 31 after
undergoing intestinal surgery.


Cuban authorities have since released few details of the veteran
revolutionary leader's exact condition, but insist he has been
recovering steadily.


"I have been in contact with him a lot ... and the process of
recovery continues going very well," Alarcon told journalists.


He stressed though it was necessary for Raul, Cuba's defense
minister and longtime number two, to remain at the helm for the
time being.


But Alarcon also insisted that did not mean Fidel Castro was out
of the loop.


"Fidel has been and is very involved, very connected, very active
in the important decisions that have been taken in the country,"
he said.


He acknowledged though that the longtime Cuban leader could not
be as involved as in the past, "since he has to devote much of
his time to his physical recovery."


Fidel Castro himself told his Venezuelan friend and ally Hugo
Chavez he felt "very well," according to a transcript of the
telephone conversation published by Cuba's official Granma daily
on Wednesday.


Chavez also suggested Castro would soon be ready to resume his
activities, and hinted at a meeting with Bolivia's leftist
president Evo Morales in April.


The Venezuelan leader has visited Castro, and talked to him on
the telephone on several occasions since July.


Video footage of a meeting the two held in January showed Castro
looking healthier and more alert than he did the previous five
times pictures of him were broadcast by Cuban state media, though
he appeared to have difficulty talking.

