

US President George W. Bush on Thursday praised the defeat of a
Senate measure calling for a US withdrawal from Iraq by late
March 2008 and warned against a similar push in the House next
week.


"Today, the United States Senate wisely rejected a resolution
that would have placed an artificial timetable on our mission in
Iraq," he said in a speech to fellow Republicans after the bill
went down to a 48-50 vote defeat.


The US president painted the pull-out proposals, mostly backed by
Democrats, as a betrayal of US troops in the war-wracked country
and said retreating from Iraq would invite Islamist extremists to
attack on US soil.


Bush accused some in the House of Representatives of trying to
use an emergency war-funding request up for debate next week to
try to "micromanage" the war or "force a precipitous withdrawal"
from Iraq.


Democrats who control the US Congress have taken the White
House's 120-billion- dollar budget request for wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq and inserted a demand for the withdrawal of
US combat troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest.


The Republican minority in the House had opposed the move, which
also threatened to compel withdrawal even before September next
year, if Bush cannot certify benchmarks for progress are being
met in Iraq.


Bush, whose popularity has sunk to their lowest levels because of
the war, warned that a hasty withdrawal would infect all of Iraq
with "a contagion of violence" that could spread across the
entire Middle East.


"The enemy would emerge from the chaos emboldened, with new safe
havens, and new recruits, and new resources and an even greater
determination to harm the United States of America," he said.


"If we were to leave Iraq before the job is done, the enemy would
follow us to the United States of America and we're not going to
let it happen," he said.


"I believe the members of Congress are sincere when they say they
support our troops. And now is the time for them to show that
support. Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives and
they need the firm support of the United States Congress," he
said.

