

Thai parents often mark the birth of a child by heading to a bank
to set up a savings account.


Now some wealthy Thais are using a different kind of bank they
hope will help protect their children's future well-being -- a
medical bank that saves stem cells from a baby's umbilical cord
in hopes of providing a cure to any major illnesses that could
develop later in life.


Through a Thai-Malaysian venture called Thai Stem Life, parents
are paying 130,000 baht (3,640 dollars, 2,750 euros) for what
they see as a high-tech insurance policy for their children.


Stem cells are the body's "master" cells, which can develop into
replacement cells that researchers believe could help treat
illness and be used in the repairs of damaged organs.


Research with some stem cells is controversial because obtaining
them can involve destroying a human embryo.


However, stem cells can also be obtained from the umbilical cord
shortly after it is cut in a five-minute procedure that poses no
danger to the child or the mother, the company says.


If the cells were later used to repair damaged organs or tissue
-- even when the child grows into an adult -- doctors believe
there would be no danger of rejection and even a chance to use
the cells to treat other members of the family.


Kostas Papadopoulos, the bank's chief operations officer, says
that by saving the stem cells, parents are investing in the hope
of giving their children more medical options down the road in
life.


"If the babies have leukemia or cancer in the future, you would
have stem cells waiting for their treatment," he told AFP.


The option is particularly important for babies of mixed
ethnicity, Papadopoulos said, because people of mixed race who
need organ transplants find it almost impossible to find a match.


While stem cell treatments remain controversial in many
countries, Thailand has few regulations governing their study.


Doctors here are already using stem cells for bone marrow
transplants to treat people with leukemia, as well as treating
other forms of cancer, heart disease and a variety of genetic
disorders.


The bank was founded in 2005 by 30 doctors from Bangkok
hospitals, who launched it as a joint venture with a Malaysian
company called Stem Life, which had opened a similar programme in
Malaysia five years earlier.


To harvest the stem cells, doctors use a needle to withdraw blood
from a newborn's umbilical cord. The blood is taken to a lab
where it is processed to isolate the stem cells, which are then
frozen in liquid nitrogen.


Because of the high price tag, Papadopoulos says the clients so
far are "relatively wealthy," mainly politicians and celebrities
-- including a former Miss Thailand, Panadda Wongphudee, who has
stored the stem cells of her six- month-old daughter.


Panadda, 31, said that after she suffered from uterine cancer she
wanted to give her daughter an extra medical option in case she
develops the disease.


"With advanced medical techonology available to better protect
the health of my child as well as her siblings in the future, I
thought why not?" she said.


"I don't want to see my children suffering from diseases in the
future, so I decided to buy this as insurance," said Panadda.


Police Major General Jonggate Aojanepong, a founder and chief
executive of TSL, said storing stem cells was no different to
investing in an insurance policy.


"You pay 20,000 to 30,000 baht a year in insurance premiums on a
Japanese car," said Jongjate, who also is chief executive of the
Jettanin fertility clinic in Bangkok.


"If we spend that kind of money to protect our car, why not pay
for something that could save the lives of our family members?"
he said.


TSL claims to be the largest stem cell bank in Southeast Asia,
and the fourth largest in Asia, behind similar operatios in South
Korea, Japan and Taiwan.


About 12,000 families have stored stem cells with TSL, with about
one third of them from European or American families living in
Thailand, said Papadopoulos.


Similar services are available in the West, usually at a higher
price.


Virgin Group entrepreneur Richard Branson in February launched a
private stem cell bank in Britain, and Sweden has launched a
national system for parents to voluntarily store stem cells.

