

US negotiator Christopher Hill said Friday that a dispute over
financial sanctions against North Korea had been resolved,
clearing the way for progress in dismantling its nuclear weapons
drive.


Speaking before a fresh round of six-nation disarmament talks,
Hill said a US decision that could unlock 25 million dollars of
frozen North Korean funds had met one of Pyongyang's key demands.


"I think they want assurances that the financial issue is
resolved," Hill told reporters in Beijing.


"Frankly I think it has been resolved," he said. "We have already
resolved it persuant to our obligations."


Hill, who had breakfast with Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the
UN nuclear watchdog, said he hoped to hold talks later in the day
with Chinese officials to allay their concerns.


In a ruling late Wednesday, the US Treasury Department barred US
banks from dealing with Banco Delta Asia, a Macau-based
institution it said had laundered money for the reclusive regime
in communist North Korea.


But crucially, the move allows Macau authorities to decide what
to do with the cash that has been frozen there since the United
States imposed financial sanctions on North Korea in 2005.


North Korea has not publicly responded so far, but China, which
hosts the six- party talks and is Pyongyang's closest ally, said
it deeply regretted the US decision, and Hill sought to be
reassuring.


"I hope to see the Chinese sometime today," he said. "I think we
are just trying to explain some of the modalities and procedures
about how this has been resolved."


Hill confirmed that a senior Treasury official, Daniel Glaser,
was going to Macau, a former Portuguese colony, which returned to
China in 1999, for talks with officials over the weekend, and
could include a stopover in Beijing.


The financial sanctions issue was one of the major oustanding
hurdles to a February 13 accord under which Pyongyang promised to
begin shutting down its nuclear programme within two months in
exchange for energy aid and diplomatic concessions.


A follow-up round of disarmament negotiations, which group the
two Koreas, China, the United States, Russia and Japan, begins
here Monday.


Preparatory working groups have already started, including one
Friday that is aimed at setting up a permanent dispute resolution
and security mechanism for North East Asia.


North Korea's chief nuclear negotiatior Kim Kye-Gwan is expected
to arrive here Saturday.


ElBaradei, for his part, emerged Wednesday from a rare visit to
Pyongyang saying North Korea had told him it was committed to
disarmament as long as the financial sanctions issue was
resolved.


It was his first trip to the North since International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors were thrown out of there in December
2002.


North Korea conducted its first atomic test in October last year
but under global pressure signed the February 13 deal.


Under the accord, North Korea has 60 days to close down its main
Yongbyon nuclear facility in exchange for 50,000 tonnes of heavy
fuel and diplomatic concessions.


South Korea would provide the initial 50,000 tonnes while the
United States would share the cost of the first shipments to the
North, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported late Thursday.


The North would eventually receive the equivalent of one million
tonnes of fuel aid if it completely disbanded its nuclear weapons
programme.

