

Asian stocks were mixed in early trade on Friday, struggling to
extend a recovery from the latest global sell-off as investors
remained wary about the outlook for the US economy, dealers said.


Overnight Thursday, Wall Street eked out modest gains as
participants appeared to put concerns about failures in the risky
"sub-prime" mortgage sector on the back burner for now.


Analysts said that it was no surprise markets were taking a
breather after the recent large swings, particularly ahead of the
weekend.


The latest remarks from Alan Greenspan caused some jitters after
the former Federal Reserve chief told a conference that US home
loan problems could spill over into the wider economy -- but that
there was no evidence of it yet.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
in Tokyo, where the Nikkei-225 index was down 0.92 percent by the
lunch break.


Hiwada said mixed US data overnight also led some in the market
to speculate that a US interest rate cut "would not be happening
anytime soon."


US producer prices jumped by 1.3 percent in February, twice the
amount the market was forecasting.


Dealers said investors will likely remain cautious ahead of US
consumer price inflation data for February due Friday and next
week's two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting.


Chinese shares prices were slightly higher with the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index up 15.92 points at 2,967.62 by lunch.


"The market was supported by strong buying in bank stocks in late
morning trade after some corrections earlier, with the rising
turnover a sign that fresh money is flowing in," said Zhang Yi,
an analyst at Yibang Investment.


"I think the Shanghai composite index will consolidate around the
2,950-points level in the short run," Zhang added.


Some Asian investors were concerned that the latest batch of
strong Chinese data might encourage the authorities in Beijing to
announce further measures to tighten credit and cool China's
economy, dealers said.


Fixed-asset investment in China rose 23.4 percent in the two
months to February year-on-year, official figures showed, a day
after industrial output figures revealed growth rebounding to
18.5 percent in the same period.


"The prospects of more austerity measures being taken by Beijing
in the short term have made many investors cautious," said Kitty
Chan, director at Celestial Asia Securities Holdings in Hong
Kong.


Elsewhere, Sydney was down 0.43 percent in early afternoon trade,
Singapore lost 0.19 percent and Kuala Lumpur shed 0.23 percent,
while Hong Kong edged up 0.1 percent, Taipei added 0.51 percent
and Seoul was steady.


Oil prices were weaker in Asian trade after the OPEC oil cartel
decided, as expected, to maintain its output quotas, with New
York's light sweet crude for delivery in April down 21 cents to
57.34 dollars a barrel.

