

Leonardo da Vinci's "The Annunciation" was safely placed on the
wall of a Tokyo museum Friday, prompting a sigh of relief amid
fears the masterpiece could have been damaged during the trip
from Italy.


Some 15 specialists took more than an hour to remove the 15th-
century painting from a triple-layer protective crate of wood and
metal and hang it at the Tokyo National Museum.


An expert from Florence's Uffizi museum gently dusted the canvas
to remove any particles that could have accumulated during the
long journey by air and road, before putting a glass casing over
the artwork.


Plans to sent the Renaissance painting to Japan sparked protests
in Italian cultural circles, including from the director of the
Uffizi, who said the work -- which had not left Florence since
1945 -- was too fragile to be transported.


"The Annunciation," which measures 98 by 217 centimeters (38 by
85 inches), depicts the Angel Gabriel announcing to a startled
Virgin Mary that she will give birth to Jesus.


The painting by Da Vinci, who is most famous for the "Mona Lisa,"
will be on public view in Tokyo from Tuesday through June 17 as
part of an exhibition of Italian art.


Italian and Japanese officials broke into applause after
overseeing the delicate operation.


"I'm greatly impressed by the safety measures. This was an
absolutely safe trip. The move was excellent, excellent," Italy's
Ambassador to Japan Mario Bova said.


"I'm very moved to watch this masterpiece, so important for the
culture of the world and Italian culture, arrive all the way here
for the Japanese public," he told AFP.


During the voyage, the protective crate included a "black box"
connected to a computer that monitored temperature and humidity.


"There could be no conditions more perfect," assured the Uffizi's
Antonio Godoli who oversaw the process.


The Tokyo National Museum said it had also taken precautions
against earthquakes, which frequently jolt the metropolis, when
designing the museum fittings for the painting.

