

Daniel Vettori believes he and his fellow spinners will be
gainfully employed during the World Cup.


With many pitches predicted to be 'turners', the New Zealand
left-armer reckons the slow men could feature heavily if the
evidence of the opening match in the Black Caps' Group C is
anything to go by.


Kenya beat Canada by seven wickets on Wednesday after their spin
trio had slowed their fellow minnows' run-rate to a crawl in mid-
innings.


"What we saw in the match between Kenya and Canada was that
everything came to a standstill when the spinners came on," said
Vettori.


"If you've got spin bowlers and you see that it is turning and
slowing up you think it's going to make an impact throughout the
tournament, particularly in St Lucia," he added ahead of New
Zealand's opening match against fellow group giants England here
Friday


And Vettori said that New Zealand coach John Bracewell, himself a
former Test off-spinner, had left him in no doubt about his World
Cup role.


"I am pretty excited. John Bracewell won't leave me alone so I
guess he is expecting me to do something out there."


New Zealand are set to play two spinners throughout the
tournament, with Vettori partnered by off-break bowler Jeetan
Patel.


The 26-year-old has taken a highly creditable 25 wickets in 17
matches since making his one-day international debut against
Zimbabwe at Harare in 2005.


"We seem to go in tandem quite well. I know throughout this
tournament we will play together for the majority of the time so
we will hope it is to the New Zealand team's advantage," Vettori
explained.


England have a rising spin star of their own in Monty Panesar and
Vettori said of his fellow left-armer: "Monty's one of the
spinners around the world who's willing to learn, willing to talk
to you about anything.


"If you've seen his development over the short time he's played
the game, he's obviously taken a lot of advice from what people
have said.


"I think he's a great bowler with a huge future," said Vettori,
already a veteran of 191 one-day internationals at the
comparatively youthful age of 28.


And he insisted he wasn't irked by England coach Duncan
Fletcher's comment last year hailing Panesar as "the best finger
spinner in the world", saying if anyone would be upset it would
be India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh.


"I'm sure Harbhajan would have had a few words to say about
that," added Vettori, who has taken 187 one-day international
wickets at an average of just over 33 apiece.


But for all the talk of slow bowlers performing well at the World
Cup, Vettori said the likes of New Zealand spearhead quick Shane
Bond wouldn't be neutered by West Indian pitches.


"I still see Shane Bond as a big threat, even though the wickets
are slow, because he is smart enough to know how to make it work
for him."

