

Rafael Nadal says if he has to be second best to anyone then at
least it's Roger Federer.


"I feel good at number two (world) because I don't see a lot of
chances for being No 1 right now," Nadal said Thursday of Federer
who has been ranked No 1 in the world for 165 weeks.


"So right now my focus is to try and continue to be number two.
But for sure, my goal is to be number one any day."


Second seed Nadal hopes to seize the moment at the 5.3 million
dollar ATP/WTA Pacific Life Open this week in the wake of
Federer's stunning early exit form the ATP Master Series event.


The swashbuckling Spaniard defeated Juan Ignacio Chela 7-5, 7-5
Thursday to reach his second semi-final of the year, where he
will play the winner of a match between Andy Roddick and Ivan
Ljubicic.


"I feel great," the two-time defending French Open champ said. "I
feel so much better than the last months right now.


"I am in the semi-finals. When this tournament started no one
pulled out so the best players in the world were here."


In the women's side of the draw, Svetlana Kuznetsova overcame an
opening-set loss and a problem with her toe to post a victory
over Nicole Vaidisova in the quarter-finals.


Kuznetsova, who recently regained her career-high world No 4
ranking after a successful swing through the Middle East
tournaments, defeated Czech Vaidisova 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.


"She played a good match and it was very tough out there," said
Kuznetsova, who is seeded second in Indian Wells. "It was very
important for me to hold my serve in the third set."


Kuznetsova, the 2004 US Open champion, also moves to the semi-
finals of the 5.3 million dollar hardcourt tournament where she
will play Sybille Bammer.


At one point in Thursday's match Kuznetsova had to remove part of
a nail on one of her right toes that had worked itself loose.


"I had the problem with my toe," she said. "My nail was pinching
me so much, and I kind of gave myself credit for suffering.


"Then I just took it out at the change over which was very
painful. I didn't want to call the trainer. I thought I better
not stop the match. I was moving good but it was hurting me a
bit."


Kuznetsova continued her mastery over world number 10 Vaidisova,
winning all three of their career meetings. This was a repeat of
last year's Roland Garros semi-final and the first time they had
met outside of a Grand Slam. Kuznetsova also won on the grass at
Wimbledon in 2005.


"I lost my rhythm in the second set," said Vaidisova, who lived
in Germany until age six. "I played a great first set and a
couple of mistakes here and there and she was able to take
advantage of it."


The 21-year-old Russian broke Vaidisova's serve three times and
made just 19 unforced errors compared to her opponent's 36 in the
almost two hour match at the main Indian Wells Tennis Garden
stadium.


"The atmosphere is a bit different (from Grand Slams). You still
want to win badly because this is one of our biggest tournaments
of the year," Vaidisova said.


Vaidisova, whose biggest weapon is her serve, had four double
faults. But there were bright spots as she fired eight aces and
42 winners to Kuznetsova's three aces and just 26 winners.


Sixth seeded Vaidisova resisted three match points while serving
at 3-5 in the final set before eventually winning the game. "You
don't want to lose easily," she said. "I was just trying to the
end."


Bammer of Austria defeated France's Tatiana Golovin 6-2, 6-3 to
reach the semi- finals.


With most of the women's top seeds either decided to skip this
event or have been eliminated, the quarter-final match was played
in front of a sparse crowd of about 400 at the main stadium.


The 26 year old Bammer, who has a five-year-old daughter, is
having her best Pacific Life Open.


Bammer, who is ranked 46th in the world said she was surprised to
be in the semis here.


"If someone had told me before the tournament that I would reach
the quarters or semis I would have taken it," Bammer said. "I am
really happy. And I think I won because I have been staying
calm."


Her best best result at a Grand Slam was a third round at the
2006 Australian Open and Wimbledon.

