

Tens of thousands of people are expected to demonstrate in
Washington and other US cities Saturday against the Iraq war,
which is hugely unpopular across the United States four years
after the invasion, organizers said.


Protesters started raising tents late Wednesday on the vast,
green esplanade across from the US Congress's domed building in
preparation for the demonstration against the US-led war that
started on March 20, 2003.


Activists wrote signs with exhortations such as "Stop the war in
Iraq," "Fund people's needs not the war machine" and "US out of
Iraq."


The fourth anniversary demonstration will take place in a
different political landscape as Democrats took control of
Congress from President George W. Bush's Republican Party in
November elections marked by voter anger over the war.


Last year's protest had been poorly attended, but activists
mobilized heavily in January to push the new Congress to end the
war that has killed more than 3,200 US soldiers and tens of
thousand of Iraqi civilians.


Bill Hackwell, a spokesman for peace group Act Now to Stop War
and End Racism (ANSWER), said tens of thousands of people from
more than 150 cities were expected to converge on the US capital
for a march to the Defense Department's Pentagon headquarters.


"We're feeling a shift in the general population of the country
who are now opposed to the war and are now thinking about doing
something about it, not only about voting but becoming active in
the anti-war struggle," he told AFP.


The war has grown increasingly unpopular, with recent polls
showing that a majority of Americans now say the invasion was a
mistake and want the US government to set a timetable for the
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq.


Hackwell said more Americans are demanding change because too
much money is being spent on the war rather than social needs
like health care, education and employment.


"It is not an exaggeration to make this connection about the
funding that gets cut for needed social programs and the money
going to the Pentagon," he said.


War veterans and their families will lead the march starting at
12:30 pm (1630 GMT) Saturday.


Prominent war opponents will also participate, including peace
activist Cindy Sheehan, who gained international attention by
staging an anti-war campout outside Bush's Texas ranch after the
death of her soldier son in Iraq.


But activists had yet to hear Wednesday from Democratic
lawmakers, whose ranks include vociferous war critics, on whether
they will take part in the march.


Other anti-war events are planned in Washington, Los Angeles and
New York.


Christian Peace Witness for Iraq will have a prayer at
Washington's National Cathedral late Friday and a candlelight
procession to the White House that the group said would attract
nearly 4,000 people.


In Los Angeles, thousands of protesters are expected to take the
streets of Hollywood Saturday and another ANSWER demonstration is
expected in San Francisco.


United for Peace and Justice, which describes itself as the
largest anti-war coalition in the United States, said it was
expecting thousands of people to turn up at a protest in New
York.


"The national anti-war movement is planning a unified surge of
protest actions calling on Congress to end the occupation and for
the immediate withdrawal of US troops," the group said in a
statement.


The leftist group MoveOn.org is also organizing candlelight
vigils for Monday in Washington and across the country, spokesman
Steve Hoffman said.

