

For years a nation of emigrants, Ireland is now a magnet for
labour and business from around the world, and for europhiles a
perfect showpiece for the European Union.


As the bloc celebrates its 50th anniversary this week, Ireland
embodies many of the arguments for the EU's existence -- keeping
post-World War II peace, promoting trade and bringing different
peoples together.


Indeed in Dublin, bustling traditional Irish pubs stand side by
side with places called the "Czech Inn" or "Pravda," while
tourists are more likely to hear Polish or even Chinese spoken
than Ireland's native Gaelic.


Ireland will mark the March 25 anniversary of the Treaty of Rome,
which planted the seeds of today's 27-member EU, with a newfound
but quiet confidence.


Few, if anyone questions Ireland's decision to join the EU in
1973. All of Ireland's political parties are firmly pro-European
as they prepare for legislative elections in May or June.


"There is a sense of belonging, the sense that we weren't an
island anymore," Patrick Frankel, a 26-year-old scientist said as
he basked in spring sunshine in a courtyard at Trinity College.


Maurice Hayes, a senator from the Independent party, said
Ireland's entry into Europe "brought self confidence."


Membership allowed Ireland finally to forget its recent past as a
British colony because it brought them together on equal terms,
including to help resolve the problem of Northern Ireland, Hayes
recalled.


"We were sitting at the same table with Britain, it brought
mutual respect," he said.


While Britain is notoriously the EU's most eurosceptic state --
keeping the pound and refusing to allow border-free travel --
Ireland has embraced the euro and floods of eastern Europeans
since the bloc's 2004 "big bang" expansion.


Above all, more than instilling in Ireland a new sense of
confidence, membership in Europe brought unprecedented wealth,
according to Natasha Sherling, a business student at Trinity
College.


"We got wealthier because of all the grants of the EU that helped
the infrastructure and the economic boom," Sherling said.


With its renovated neighborhoods and brand new tramway, Dublin
today no longer harbours the slums where people emigrated from
for more than 200 years and where diseases like tuberulosis
struck people down until the 1950s.


With unemployment still as high as 18 percent in the 1980s, the
"Celtic Tiger" began to leap in the 1990s.


"In the early days money went to the farmers," said Ruth Deasy,
spokewsoman for the European Commission in Ireland.


Ireland has so far received 55 billion euros in European aid,
which has led to massive investment, particularly in education.


"We missed the industrial revolution. We went from agriculture to
the high tech in one generation," according to Ann Barrington,
director of Forum on Europe.


Such European support, combined with a competitive 12.5 percent
tax rate for businesses, triggered an influx of foreign
investment.


US high-tech companies like Dell and Intel have turned Ireland,
where they find a well-trained English-speaking workforce, into
their base for Europe, stimulating in turn a dynamic service
sector and property boom.


A city of 1.2 million inhabitants, Dublin never stops growing,
and new demand for labour has triggered an unprecedented wave of
immigration to the emerald isle.


Today 10 percent of the working-age population is foreign, more
than 200,000 of them Poles. Such a rapid influx into an island of
six million people in the last three years has raised new
challenges.


"Even though we are the land of the thousand welcomes, there is a
trend of racism in Irish people, to some degree a suspicion,
towards these people coming to our country," said Frankel, the
young scientist.


Brigid Laffan, dean of the arts and science faculty at UCD, said
things seem fine for now on the surface despite the influx from
abroad.


"There are no evident tensions, it's because of the economy. We
don't know what will happen if there is a downturn," Laffan said.

