

Nuclear power is expected to contribute 3.3 percent of Vietnam's
total electricity needs by 2020, rising to 4.7 percent five years
later, a top energy official said Wednesday.


Ta Van Huong, director-general of the department of energy and
petroleum at the ministry of industry, said his country planned
to build its first nuclear power facilities by 2015, to produce
2,000 megawatts of power by 2020.


The output from nuclear power plants is expected to increase to
4,000 megawatts, or 4.7 percent of total power needs, by 2025, Ta
said at a regional energy conference in Singapore.


A "pre-feasibility study" for the building of nuclear power
facilities had been submitted to the government, he said.


"We hope that this year the official approval from the government
will be sealed (so that) we (can) start to carry out the
feasiblity study on nuclear power," he said, without giving a
cost for the facilities.


Despite the arrival of nuclear energy, hydro-electric and thermal
plants, along with oil and gas, will remain the main sources of
Vietnam's power. The country saw economic growth of more than 8.0
percent last year, and annual energy demand was growing twice as
fast, Ta said.


He also highlighted business opportunities in the country.


Vietnam needed 52 billion dollars in investment for thermal and
hydro-power plants until 2025 and nearly 28 billion dollars to
build transmission and distribution facilities, Ta said.


Soaring oil prices have prompted some developing Asian countries,
including Indonesia, to look at the possibility of building
nuclear power plants despite concerns over the high cost and
safety.


On Tuesday, a Vietnamese diplomatic source said in Hanoi that the
United States had pledged to help Vietnam build a nuclear power
plant if the country switched to non-weapons-grade uranium in its
test reactor.


The nuclear issue was a major theme of last week's Washington
meeting between US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and
Vietnam's Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Pham Gia
Khiem, the source said.


The US said Vietnam had agreed to convert its Soviet-built Dalat
research reactor, located about 250 kilometres (150 miles)
northeast of Ho Chi Minh City, from high- to low-enriched uranium
fuel.


Vietnam would also "move forward with the repatriation of
Russian-origin highly enriched uranium fuel" under an agreement
with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the US
embassy in Hanoi said in a statement.


Atomic energy officials in Vietnam have said in the past that
potential suppliers of the nuclear reactor, likely to be located
in central Vietnam, included the United States, Russia, France,
Japan and Canada.

