

Dozens of coffins were laid out in a warehouse of this Siberian
city on Wednesday, as Russia marked a day of mourning for 107
people killed in the worst mining disaster since the Soviet era.


The first of many funerals was held at the Spaso-Preobrazhensky
cathedral, a yellow church surrounded by snow-covered poplar
trees and grey apartment blocks in the mining city of
Novokuznetsk.


Tearful elderly women, men in leather jackets and girls carrying
bunches of flowers filed past the coffin to pay their last
respects as an Orthodox priest intoned prayers for the dead.


At the Novokuznetsk funeral home, staff struggled to cope with
the scale of the disaster.


"It's an enormous quantity of coffins. We had to get more in from
other cities," said the manager Natasha, as workers prepared
wreaths for more funerals on Thursday.


"The tragedy was so big that the families are having to organise
their own transport. We can't provide our own, we just don't have
enough cars," she said.


Russian President Vladimir Putin declared a day of mourning on
Wednesday for those killed in the gas explosion at the
Ulyanovskaya mine near Novokuznetsk and for two other recent
fatal accidents -- a nursing home blaze on Tuesday that killed 63
and an air crash over the weekend that killed six.


In Novokuznetsk, a city of 600,000 people, hundreds of mourners
lit candles in churches as priests sang remembrance services in
memory of those killed in the blast.


Even in a coal mining belt where industrial accidents are
frequent and living conditions are tough, locals have been
shocked by the disaster in this closely- knit community.


"There are so many orphans now. And they're going to go hungry
once the compensation payments run out," said Sergei Teryokhin,
54, a former miner with cropped grey hair.


"I clam up and cry if I think about  it," said Teryokhin, who
worked 25 years in the mines that are a feature of the landscape
in this corner of southwest Siberia.


At the headquarters of mine operator Yuzhkuzbassugol, company
representatives said they were working with mining families
individually to organise the funerals.


"We're listening to what they tell us. We're providing
counselling. We want the funerals to be worthy," a
Yuzhkuzbassugol spokesman said following a meeting between
company officials and emergency workers on Wednesday.


Flags outside the company headquarters, and across Russia, flew
at half-mast. In a small mining museum in the building, a sign
read: "The names of the miners who have given their life for coal
will not be forgotten!"


But for Teryokhin, these are just empty official words: "Of
course they'll forget about them. After the funerals, everyone
will forget about these men except their families. The company
bosses don't care."

