

Pakistan's top judge was suspended after obtaining a series of
promotions for his son, according to a list of charges filed by
President Pervez Musharraf and published in newspapers Wednesday.


Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who was removed by Musharraf on March
9, also assembled a fleet of cars and demanded the use of planes
that he was not entitled to, the allegations said.


It is the first time the charges against Chaudhry have been
detailed. State media had previously only said that he was
charged with misconduct and abuse of office.


"The reference by the president published in the media was leaked
by Chaudhry's lawyer. But it is true," a senior law ministry
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Chaudhry's legal team denied the "baseless" accusations.


"It is because of the baseless nature of allegations that the
chief justice wants an open hearing into the presidential
reference," Munir Malik, one of his lawyers, told AFP.


The suspended chief justice had been due to appear before
Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council on Wednesday for the third
closed-door hearing into the charges, but the hearing was
postponed at the last minute until April 3.


The list of charges says Chaudhry "committed misconduct by
employing his position to gain undue advantage for Dr Arsalan
Iftikhar," his son.


"He unlawfully used his position as a judge and chief justice of
the Supreme Court of Pakistan to influence, harass and intimidate
all concerned and compelled them to act in an unlawful manner,"
the list said.


His son was promoted rapidly through the health department of
southwestern Baluchistan, despite not having passed a basic
college exam, the charges say.


They alleged that Arsalan was transferred to the Federal
Investigation Agency where he again landed a series of
increasingly senior jobs.


Chaudhry then allegedly pushed officials for his son to be given
a position with the police in Punjab province and arranged for
him to waive some of the training.


The charges also claim that Chaudhry has the use of seven
official cars, when he is only meant to have one, that he orders
traffic to be stopped for his convoy and that he demands the use
of aircraft assigned to senior government officials.

