

Australia's second largest airline, discount carrier Virgin Blue,
on Wednesday placed a 2.6 billion dollars (2.1 billion US) order
for seven long-haul Boeing jets to allow it to launch US
services.


The order includes six wide-bodied Boeing 777-300 ER planes to be
bought directly from US manufacturer Boeing Co. with an option
for six others, as well as an order for a seventh 777 from
International Leasing Finance Co.


The new international division of Virgin Blue, which has yet to
be named, is due to be launched in 2008 and hopes to initially
begin services to the US West Coast in competition with
Australian carrier Qantas and three other airlines.


"This is a significant milestone for Virgin Blue and for
Australian aviation," said Virgin Blue chief executive Brett
Godfrey as his carrier braced for a head- to-head battle with
Qantas on overseas routes.


The other airlines plying the lucrative route that is one of the
jewels in Qantas' crown include Hawaiian Airlines and US carrier
United. Air New Zealand flies Pacific routes but via New Zealand.


Godfrey said he hoped the Australian government would approve 10
services per week for the new services, which would create over
1,100 jobs.


"We have demonstrated our contribution in the seven years since
launching Virgin Blue in the Australian domestic market through
flexible and innovative products for both leisure and business
travellers, and we look forward to doing it all over again," he
said.


The company is currently working with US regulatory authorities
to gain approval for its operations.


Virgin's order came after an Australian government review of
international aviation in February last year called for open
skies and foreign carriers to commit to a long-term presence in
Australia.


"Based squarely on that cabinet review and resolution, Virgin
Blue took a decision to invest and launch a new international
airline for Australia," Godfrey said.


Virgin Blue was founded by UK businessman Richard Branson but is
now controlled by Australia's Toll Holdings.

