

Cambodian ex-police chief Heng Pov was acquitted Wednesday of
kidnapping charges in the first of two trials following a purge
of Phnom Penh's police force that landed several of his former
allies in jail.


He is expected to stand trial Thursday for murder in connection
with the torture death of a woman in police custody.


"The court decided that Heng Pov, 50, and Meng Say, 46, are free
from the kidnapping for ransom charges," Judge Iv Kim Sry said
after the morning trial, without elaborating why.


Meng Say is the former head of the municipal anti-trafficking
police, who was also arrested over the September 2005 incident in
which 26 people, including South Korean and Chinese nationals,
were detained for allegedly brokering marriages between Cambodian
women and Koreans.


All of the suspects were let go after a few days, but one of the
South Koreans complained to his embassy that he had been forced
to pay 11,000 dollars to police for their release.


Both Heng Pov and Meng Say had earlier denied the kidnapping
claims, telling the court the crimes were committed by other
police officers.


"I ordered the release of those people because I found out there
were irregularities in the case," Heng Pov told the court
earlier.


"I was not involved in the money," he added.


Heng Pov is in custody, having previously been sentenced last
September to 18 years in prison in connection with the killing of
a judge in Phnom Penh in 2003, and was at the centre of a bitter
extradition row after fleeing Cambodia.


After hiding out in Singapore and Malaysia, he was granted asylum
in Finland by convincing authorities there that he would be
tortured and killed if he returned to Cambodia for his criticism
of the government.


Heng Pov, who was sacked as chief of police in the capital Phnom
Penh in early 2006, had threatened to link senior officials to
assassinations and other crimes that occurred in recent years,
including the killing of labour leaders.


Malaysia abruptly deported Heng Pov in December, drawing swift
criticism from Amnesty International and other rights groups who
said Kuala Lumpur had trampled the asylum process.


He has since been granted permission by Malaysian courts to take
legal action against the senior Malaysian officials who allowed
his swift deportation.


Heng Pov has also been implicated by Cambodian interior ministry
officials in the shooting death of a Singaporean businessman, and
the various criminal complaints against him have exposed a
corrupt and often violent police force.


Several officers serving under the ex-chief have been arrested
for the murder of a young woman in 2004 -- the case on which Heng
Pov is expected to stand trial Thursday -- who died after being
beaten and tortured while in police custody for allegedly
stealing a piece of gold jewellery.


A number of others have been arrested for other crimes committed
during Heng Pov's tenure as chief.

