

Relentless rain triggered landslides and roof collapses across
northern Pakistan, leaving at least 67 people dead, officials and
reports said Wednesday.


At least 37 survivors of the devastating 2005 earthquake in
Pakistani Kashmir were killed when landslides swept away their
mountainside homes, police spokesman Javed Ahmed told AFP in the
regional capital Muzaffarabad.


Twenty-seven people, mostly women, died and 16 were injured when
a huge landslide hit Doba Syedan village in Kashmir's Jhelum
Valley area late Tuesday, police spokesman Javed Ahmed told AFP.


Another 10 were killed in a separate landslip at Jabar Daray
village in the mountainous Bagh district on Tuesday, Ahmed said.


"It has been raining here for two days and the landslides
happened almost simultaneously. These people were in houses built
on terraces on the hillsides and huge landslides buried them,"
Ahmed said.


"Police and army teams are in the area trying to remove the
debris and recover the bodies. So far two bodies have been
recovered in the Jhelum Valley. Efforts being made to recover the
others."


Ahmed added: "It's very unfortunate. These are the people who
were worst hit in the earthquake."


The 7.6-magnitude quake in October 2005 claimed more than 73,000
lives and left 3.3 million homeless in Pakistani Kashmir and
northwestern Pakistan. More than 1,000 also died in Indian
Kashmir.


Landslides and avalanches were also reported in North West
Frontier Province bordering Afghanistan, and press reports said
the nationwide toll excluding Kashmir stood at more than 30.


Five members of a family were buried alive when an avalanche hit
their home in mountainous Swat district on Tuesday, the state-run
Associated Press of Pakistan said. Five more died when their roof
caved in in the same district.


Four family members were reported killed in a landslide in the
nearby town of Mingora and another seven died when their house
collapsed in Malakand district. A house collapse also left three
children and women dead in Mardan.


Torrential rains and heavy snow also paralysed life in northern
Pakistan and traffic was blocked on the main Karakoram Highway
linking Pakistan with China.


The meteorological department has forecast more rains in Kashmir
and northwest Pakistan over the next 36 hours.


Heavy rains early last month claimed 30 lives while a cold wave
caused by winter rains in December left 20 dead across the
country. Last year monsoon rains killed 192 people.

