

Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer, who died at the age of 58 in Kingston
on Sunday, had gone to the Caribbean hoping to be third time
lucky after twice missing out on World Cup glory.


A former England batsman, Woolmer was South Africa's coach in the
1996 World Cup in the sub-continent when a quarter-final defeat
at the hands of the West Indies shattered his dreams.


Three years later in England, his talented South African side
were in tears after they tied their epic semi-final against
eventual champions Australia and bowed out on inferior net run-
rate.


Woolmer never forgot those setbacks but he appreciated that the
challenge of coaching Pakistan, one of the most volatile teams in
world cricket, was taking its toll.


After his side crashed out of the World Cup on Saturday in
Kingston against minnows Ireland, Woolmer hinted at the strain.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Late Tuesday here, Jamaican police revealed that his death was
being treated as suspicious.


Woolmer came to the Caribbean driven by a desire to land the
ultimate prize in the game.


"It is always disappointing as a team not to achieve the ultimate
goal, but it was not for the lack of trying. Cricket is a game
where anything can happen and nothing should ever be taken as
granted," said Woolmer.


A two-year stint as International Cricket Council's High
Performance Manager allowed Woolmer to work with fledgling
cricketing nations, like Kenya, Namibia and the Netherlands
during the 2003 World Cup.


Fate took him to Pakistan in 2004 as coach, regarded as the
country's hottest post which had seen five changes since 1999
until his arrival.


He forged a strong relationship with captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and
saw to it that the skilful cricketers always remained strong in
basics.


Woolmer believed Pakistan had been moving in the right direction.


"There are completely different dynamics with the Pakistan team
from that of South Africa. I have enjoyed coaching them," he
said.


Born in the Indian city of Kanpur in 1948, he played 19 Tests for
England in the 1970s but missed the inaugural World Cup in 1975
due to injury.


"I broke my left hand so I was left to do the 12th man duties,"
recalled Woolmer, whose career ended prematurely as he first
joined Kerry Packer World Series Cricket and then went on rebel
tours to South Africa in the 1980s.


He steadily developed into a renowned coach, and was credited
with pioneering the use of computers in cricket.


His creative and adventurous ways helped South Africa become a
formidable team.


"We had a good plan in 1996, but were undone by a great
performance by (century- maker) Brian Lara in the quarter-final,"
said Woolmer, under whom South Africa won the inaugural Champions
Trophy in 1998 and were hot favourites for the 1999 World Cup.


"It was cruel to lose by a run-rate of 0.01 which was the closest
of margins. It was very depressing."

