

Thailand's newest star Chapchai Nirat is gunning for a second
straight victory at the inaugural Motorola International,
declaring he wants to be Asia's number one.


The 23-year-old, nicknamed "King Kong" for his big-hitting game,
claimed his maiden title at the co-sanctioned TCL Classic in
China on Sunday and is ready to bag another at the spectacular
Ria Bintan Golf Club.


Chapchai faces a strong field that includes Australian veteran
Peter Senior, a winner of 26 titles worldwide, Japan's Tatsuhiko
Takahashi, a double winner in Japan, and some of the Asian Tour's
leading names.


Australians Jarrod Moseley and Lucas Parsons, winners on the
European Tour, are also tipped to sparkle.


"I'm still feeling good after the big win," said Chapchai
Wednesday.


"I can't believe that I've done it so early in my career and I've
now come to the Motorola International Bintan to try and win this
tournament as well.


Chapchai led from start to finish in China to become the third
Thai winner of an co-sanctioned Asian and European Tour event.


While it is still early days in the 2007 season, the burly Thai
player has set his sights on finishing the year as Asia's number
one.


"At the start of the year, I was aiming for a top-five finish on
the Order of Merit. But my win now has allowed me to refocus my
goal which is to become number one," he said.


"I've got a great start and I'll give it a shot.


"I'll play in some big events in Europe but my focus will be very
much on  the Asian Tour."


Senior might be 47 but the veteran feels he is hitting a purple
patch and will be challenging for the lead in Bintan, an
Indonesia island close to Singapore.


"I've pretty much finished in the top-20 of every event that I
played in this year except for the Johnnie Walker Classic where I
missed the cut by one," he said.


"I've been putting in one mediocre round in every tournament, so
I have to improve on that."


Takahashi, one of Japan's rising stars thanks to his win in the
Japan Golf Tour Championship last year, wants to win in Bintan to
secure playing privileges on the Asian Tour.


"I hope to challenge," he said. "It's my first event of the year
and you don't really know what to expect but I've practised hard
and I'm looking forward to this week."

