

An Indonesian court Wednesday jailed three Islamic militants for
up to 20 years over the beheading of three Christian schoolgirls
in a crime that drew international condemnation.


The court sentenced Hasanuddin, alias Slamet Raharjo, who came up
with the idea to decapitate the girls to mark a Muslim holiday,
to 20 years in prison.


"The accused was proven to plan and move other people to carry
out terror acts," Judge Binsar Siregar said.


A separate court sentenced two of Hasanuddin's accomplices, Lilik
Purnomo and Irwanto Irano, to 14 years in jail for "evil plotting
of, attempts at or providing assistance to, a crime of
terrorism."


The teenage girls were walking home from school when they were
beheaded by machete in 2005 during a festival marking the end of
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.


A fourth girl survived and fled with serious injuries.


The severed heads were dumped near a police post and a church
after the attack in Sulawesi island's religiously divided
district of Poso, where Muslims and Christians live in roughly
equal numbers.


The courts heard that Hasanuddin gave Purnomo and Irano money to
buy six machetes and black plastic bags, which were used to wrap
the heads.


Purnomo acted as a lookout on a nearby hill, while Irano led the
attack on the girls, Alfita Moliwo, Teresia Morangki and Yani
Sambue. Irano left his fingerprints on the black plastic bags.


Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono condemned the
killings while Pope Benedict XVI deplored what he described as
"barbaric murder."


Prosecutors had demanded 20-year jail terms for all the men, who
have still to decide if they will appeal. The trials were held in
the capital, Jakarta, rather than on Sulawesi for security
reasons.


Another militant, Basri, has confessed to taking part in the
killings and said he was ordered to kill "infidels."


Basri and two other men were arrested last month, but four other
militants believed to have been involved are still on the run.


Poso has seen sporadic unrest since violence between Muslims and
Christians claimed around 1,000 lives in 2000 and 2001.


Tension rose again in September last year after the execution of
three Christians convicted of inciting attacks seven years ago.

