

Zimbabwe's central bank governor has threatened a crackdown on
fuel dealers for hiking prices by up to 200 percent recently in
the face of growing shortages, a media report said Wednesday.


"Service stations have really made life unbearable for us now,"
Gideon Gono is quoted by the state-run Herald newspaper as
saying.


"As governor, I will not sit and read stories and hear reports of
people being ripped off. Service stations should either behave or
ship out. The law will take its course shortly. We have no
sympathy for them."


Fuel prices in the beleaguered southern African country have
rocketed in the last fortnight amid fresh shortages on the back
of spiking inflation and a devalued currency.


Urban and long distance transporters have put up their fares by
at least 150 percent, and petrol is now sold at garages for
13,000 Zimbabwe dollars (52 US dollars) compared to 2,000
Zimbabwe dollars in January.


Diesel costs 15,000 Zimbabwe dollars a litre.


Although the official price of petrol and diesel is pegged at 335
and 320 Zimbabwe dollars respectively, no service station is
selling at that price as it is not viable.


"The spirit of profiteering in this country is now as deadly as
the disease(HIV/AIDS)," Gono said.


According to central bank figures, Zimbabwe requires 730 million
litres of petrol and 900 million litres of diesel annually to
operate at full capacity.


The country has faced serious fuel shortages since 1999, which
the government blames on sanctions imposed on President Robert
Mugabe and members of his inner circle at the time.


At the worst, gas stations went without fuel for months on end,
buses and private cars were forced off the road and commuters had
to walk or cycle to work.


Since controversial land reforms saw properties taken from white
farmers for redistribution among landless blacks several years
ago, sparking an economic downturn, inflation in Zimbabwe now
stands at 1,730 percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


Mugabe recently launched a violent crackdown on leaders of the
opposition Movement for Democratic Change.

