

Japan has ordered the importer of Tamiflu to warn that teenagers
should not be prescribed the drug after further reports of
abnormal behaviour by patients, health ministry officials said
Wednesday.


The health ministry instructed Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. to state
in the drug's explanatory note that its use for teenagers should
be avoided.


"We instructed Chugai Pharmaceutical to call medical experts'
attention to abnormal behaviour after taking Tamiflu," a health
ministry official told reporters.


The ministry said it had received reports that, after taking
Tamiflu, two teenagers jumped off the second floor of their
houses and broke their legs.


However, the ministry had not proved a link between Tamiflu and
abnormal behaviour, public broadcaster NHK reported.


Chugai Pharmaceutical immediately issued a statement calling for
doctors to "abstain from using Tamiflu for patients aged between
10 and 19 in principle," with description of the latest two
cases.


In one of the two cases, a boy suddenly woke up in the middle of
the night, ran upstairs and leaped from the balcony ignoring his
mother's cry to stop, the statement said.


Swiss drugmaker Roche, the manufacturer of Tamiflu, on Tuesday
made a fresh denial of any connection between the drug and the
incidents.


Roche found "no established causal link between neuropsychiatric
symptoms and treatment with Tamiflu" from new data from the
United States and Japan, it said on its website.


Japan buys more than 60 percent of the world's Tamiflu, seen as
the frontline drug against a global bird flu pandemic.


But Tamiflu has come under investigation in Japan after dozens of
people killed themselves after having taken the drug for
conventional flu.


In a case last month, a 14-year-old boy died after leaping from
the 11th floor of a building.


Ryuko Hatano, whose son died in a suspected Tamiflu-related
incident, criticised the government's position.


"The government has kept saying there is no link between Tamiflu
and the deaths... I cannot understand the ministry's attitude in
which they cannot move a step nor a half step until they see the
next victim," she said.


An investigation last year by the US Food and Drug Administration
into the deaths in Japan concluded there was no link between
Tamiflu and the fatalities.


The virulent H5N1 bird flu virus has killed at least 169 people
across the world since late 2003 through contact with infected
birds, according to the World Health Organisation.


Japan last week declared an end to its recent outbreaks of the
virus among poultry which led the authorities to kills tens of
thousands of chickens as a precaution.

