

Asian stocks closed mixed Wednesday as investors waited for the
end of a US Federal Reserve meeting later in the day while the
Chinese markets put on a record breaking performance only weeks
after sparking a global sell-off, dealers said.


They said most investors were content to sit on the sidelines
until the outcome of the Fed meeting was known. No change in
interest rates was expected but everyone wanted to hear what the
US central bank would say about the economic outlook after recent
problems in the key housing market.


A sharp spike in US mortgage defaults has stoked fears of a wider
fallout which would hit consumer spending and so undercut demand
for Asia's exports.


A US economic slowdown would normally see the Fed cut interest
rates so as to boost activity but recent inflation data has been
worrying, suggesting the central bank may have to at least keep
policy unchanged for some time.


Against this backdrop, few investors wanted to trade aggressively
until they knew what the Fed felt about the economic outlook so
they could better judge where the balance on interest rates
should fall.


Tokyo's closure for a public holiday made for a quieter day.


Gains and losses were accordingly modest overall. Mumbai was the
top performer with a rise of 1.89 percent while Bangkok was down
0.33 percent despite strong export figures for January.


TOKYO: Closed for a public holiday.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed little changed after a
four-day run-up as investors took to the sidelines to await the
outcome of the US Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates,
dealers said.


The downside was limited as foreign investors picked up IT stocks
and banks to help the benchmark index stay above 1,440 points,
they noted.


Hynix was in the spotlight after announcing major partnership
deals with Toshiba and SanDisk.


The KOSPI index ended down 1.32 points at 1,442.85, off a low of
1,435.42 and a high of 1,452.05. Volume was 338 million shares
worth 2.9 trillion won (3.09 billion dollars). Falls led gains
421 to 329, with 81 stocks unchanged.


Foreign investors and corporates were net buyers of shares worth
30.8 billion won and 79.1 billion won while institutions and
retail investors were net sellers for 93.3 billion won and 15.8
billion won.


"With people awaiting the US rate decision, the market took a
break," said Daewoo Securities analyst Joseph Han.


He said that after the recent recovery, stocks look set for a
further advance based on support from foreign investors for IT
companies and banks.


"It seems that global liquidity is still abundant and therefore
foreign investors will likely buy more shares here."


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.82 percent higher as
blue chips China Mobile, Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa were
supported in late trade on expectations that they will report
strong 2006 results, dealers said.


China Mobile will announce its results later Wednesday, while
Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa will report Thursday.


The market was quite active even though most investors remained
cautious after recent volatility and ahead of the end of the US
Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates later Wednesday.


The Fed is not expected to change rates and the focus will be on
what it says about the US economic outlook after problems in the
key housing market sparked concerns of a possible wider fallout
which would hit consumer demand.


The Hang Seng Index rose 159.51 points at 19,516.41, off a low of
19,270.72 and a high of 19,537.09. Turnover was 46.82 billion
dollars (6.0 billion US).


"Major blue chips like China Mobile, Cheung Kong and Hutchison
Whampoa saw strong pre-results buying interest ... which helped
the market to reverse (morning) losses," said Jackson Wong,
investment manager at Tanrich Securities.


He said there was also some short-covering activity in property
and financial stocks.


"It seems that investors would like to boost the benchmark index
back to the 19,800-points level or above," Wong said, adding that
stable overseas markets helped support sentiment.


China Mobile closed up 0.85 dollars at 73.65 dollars. The company
announced after market close a net profit of 66 billion yuan (8.5
billion US) for 2006, up 23.3 percent from a year earlier and in
line with market forecasts.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed up 0.27 percent but early
gains made on Wall Street's advance overnight were eroded
steadily by profit-taking, dealers said.


Investors were unwilling to chase prices higher towards the 7,800
points technical resistance level, preferring to wait for the
outcome of the US Federal Reserve's policy meeting before making
any further orders, they said.


The weighted index was up 20.83 points at 7,757.03, after trading
between 7,746.35 and 7,784.19, on turnover of 85.07 billion
dollars (2.57 billion US).


Decliners outnumbered risers 564 to 508, with 232 stocks
unchanged.


Oliver Fang, a Yuanta Core Pacific Securities assistant vice
president who serves mainly foreign investors, said there was
really no reason to trade aggressively ahead of the Fed's rate
decision and comment on the US economy's status and outlook.


"Investors became even more reluctant to step away from the
sidelines today," he said.


He said it would take more convincing leads to drive the market
past the 7,800-point resistance level where many investors have
been waiting for a chance to recoup previous losses.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices put recent turbulence behind them
to post a record finish with a gain of 0.83 percent, supported by
follow-through buying and fresh inflows of funds, dealers said.


They said new money and further gains in the yuan provided the
immediate cue for the record breaking performance but there was
also a note of caution as investors worried about the possibility
of another sharp correction.


A recent series of very strong economic data prompted a third
consecutive interest rate hike at the weekend and the authorities
have made clear they want to calm the markets, which are now up
some 150 percent since early 2006.


However, investors largely ignored the rate hike Monday, when
stocks rose 2.87 percent, and it seems it will take more than
that to keep them in check, increasing the risk of perhaps
tougher measures.


Turnover continued very heavy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, closed up 25.19 points at 3,057.38, an all-time high,
on turnover of 89.31 billion yuan (11.52 billion US dollars).


The previous record finish on the Shanghai Composite was 3,040.60
points on February 26, one day before a near nine percent
collapse sparked a global equity market sell-off.


The markets were very nervous in the aftermath of the Chinese
inspired crash but investors gradually found fresh courage and
bought in at the lows on the hope further gains would come.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 26.38 points or 0.83 percent at
3,212.42 on turnover of 88.85 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 11.44 points or 1.38 percent at 840.96, also a
record high, on turnover of 49.87 billion yuan.


"Fresh money came in after the Shanghai Composite index breached
its record high this morning while expectations for solid 2006
earnings to be announced by major companies also helped boost
confidence," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers, however, cautioned that the market is ripe for a
correction at current levels with some investors expected to want
to cash in recent gains.


"There could be some correction around current levels because
some investors might choose to lock in gains," said Zhang Yidong,
an analyst at Industrial Securities.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed 0.25 percent lower in
cautious trade, with investors waiting for the outcome of the US
Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates later in the day,
dealers said.


They said there was little incentive to trade aggressively before
news on the Fed meeting but continued gains in commodity prices
helped the miners provide some support.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 ended down 14.7 points at 5,861.9 while
the broader All Ordinaries index shed 10.2 points at 5,846.3.


Turnover was 1.74 billion shares worth 5.01 billion dollars (3.9
billion US), with falls leading gains 656 to 532 and 356 stocks
unchanged.


Bell Potter Securities private investment advisor Stuart Smith
said caution ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting slowed the
market while its outcome should dictate trading over the
remainder of the week.


There is little likelihood the Fed will do anything other than
leave rates on hold but the markets want to hear its comments on
the outlook for the US economy, especially in light of recent
weakness in the key housing sector.


Index-leading resource stocks BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto
supported the market somewhat while selling in oil heavyweight
Woodside weighed on the index, Smit said.


He noted the major banks were mixed although three of them are
still carrying dividends for the year ending March.


"I think it's a nice healthy market with a bit of profit taking,"
he said.


"The markets are trying to decide whether we're in an uptrend or
not. Technically I think we are."


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 1.25 percent higher as
investors, buoyed by Wall Street's gains on Tuesday, bought into
banks and blue chips, dealers said.


They added the market may have bottomed-out but investors are
still likely to trade cautiously following recent volatility in
global markets.


The Straits Times Index rose 38.81 points to 3,155.69 on volume
of 1.42 billion shares worth 1.39 billion dollars (908 million
US). Gainers outnumbered losers 492 to 217, with 696 stocks
unchanged.


"The market will probably remain in a consolidation phase for
now," UOB Kay Hian analyst Yang Sy Jian said.


Dealer said investors were awaiting the outcome of the US Federal
Open Market Committee meeting for a clearer direction on US
interest rates. The Fed was not expected to adjust its target
rate at the current meeting but its comments on the economic
outlook will be closely scrutinised.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 0.34 percent higher,
extending gains after a positive close on Wall Street overnight,
dealers said.


However, sentiment remained cautious ahead of the outcome of the
US Federal Open Market Committee meeting later Wednesday, they
said.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index rose 4.06 points to 1,209.34 on
volume of 1.46 billion shares worth 1.67 billion ringgit (481
million dollars). Gainers led losers 458 to 342, with 322 stocks
unchanged.


"Sentiment is slightly cautious ahead of the US FOMC," said MIMB
Research technical analyst Lee Cheng Hooi.


"But I think the current trend is quite healthy as world markets
have shown improvement," he said, noting that regional bourse,
such as Hong Kong and the Philippines closed higher in
Wednesday's trade.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.33 percent lower despite
gains in other regional markets as investors awaited a decision
on US interest rates, dealers said.


They said a significant rise in January exports failed to boost
sentiment as the Thai baht remained strong, dampening the
economic growth potential for this year.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index lost 2.20
points to 669.56 while the blue-chip SET 50 index dropped 1.68
points to 468.24


Losers far led gainers 199 to 94, with 149 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.7 billion shares worth 7.96 billion baht (228
million dollars).


The baht reached a new nine-year high, closing at 34.78-80 to the
dollar from Tuesday's 34.83-85.


Dealers said the market was waiting for comments from the US
Federal Reserve after the end of its two-day meeting Wednesday
are hoped to give some guidance after a turbulent month for
global equities.


"Investors, mainly foreigners, sold big-cap shares as they wait
for any clue from the Fed ... on whether interest rates would be
cut faster than expected," said Pichai Lertsupongkit, senior vice
president of Thanachart Securities.


"Trading volume remained very thin, as we saw over the past
couple days, amid political and economic uncertainties" in
Thailand, he added.


Despite a new report showing a sharp rise in exports, which rose
by 17.7 percent to nearly 10.5 billion dollars in January, the
market did not get a boost, Pichai said.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.21 percent higher but
the gains were checked by losses in heavyweight Telkom and the
miners after tin and nickel prices fell overnight, dealers said.


They said investors were largely content to await news from a
two-day US Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates which ends
later Wednesday.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index added 3.814 points at
1,779.237 on volume of 2.93 billion shares worth 2.0 trillion
rupiah (218.87 million dollars). Gainers led losers 95 to 53,
with 55 stocks unchanged.


"In general, I think investors preferred to wait for the Fed
decision," said Ratna Lim, an analyst with Valbury Asia
Securities.


She said the sell-off in Telkom was due to profit-taking after
the stock's recent strong gains.


MANILA: Philippine shares closed 1.68 percent higher as investors
snapped up bargains following a two-day decline, dealers said


However, the thin turnover suggests many investors opted to stay
on the sidelines until the US Federal Reserve concludes its two-
day policy meeting later in the day, they said.


The composite index was up 51.09 points at the day's high of
3,090.47, off a low of 3,039.38. The broader all-share index rose
26.39 points at 1,997.53.


Gainers beat losers 90 to 23, with 50 stocks unchanged. Turnover
was 8.3 billion shares worth 2.4 billion pesos (50.8 million
dollars.)


"After the previous week's slump and the fall early this week,
investors saw some positions for bargain-hunting, so it's a mixed
bag of blue chips and penny stocks," said Lawrence de Leon of
Accord Capital Equities Inc.


He said investors were still cautious but were more convinced
that the market is starting to stabilize after weeks of volatile
trading.


"There will still be some holding back; a lot depends on the
performance of the regional markets," said de Leon.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.27 percent higher
after market leader Telecom recovered some of the ground lost
recently on concerns over its business outlook, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index rose 10.90 points to 4,052.51 on
turnover of 112.6 million dollars (79.4 million US).


Dealers said there was little appetite for aggressive buying,
especially ahead of the end later Wednesday of the US Federal
Reserve meeting on interest rates.


"Generally, buyers are still cautious," said Stephen Wright, head
of advisory at ASB Securities.


Telecom rose five cents to 4.60 dollars after an eight cent fall
on Tuesday, which was spurred by concerns the company might
invest more in Australia, where it has performed poorly.


MUMBAI: Indian share prices closed up 1.89 percent, notching up
gains for a third straight day, as investor fears about a
possible US rate hike eased, dealers said.


The US Federal Reserve is discussing monetary policy at a two-day
meeting which closes later Wednesday.


Analysts expect the Federal Reserve to keep rates unchanged at
5.25 percent.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index rose 239.94
points to 12,945.88, gaining 4.1 percent so far this this week.


"The markets showed strength as global concerns (about a rate
hike) appear to have eased," said Naresh Garg, chief investment
officer at Sahar Mutual Fund, adding that sentiment was upbeat
about Indian companies reporting strong full- year earnings next
month.

