

The Vietnam Football Federation said Wednesday it has suspended
six former players of its under-23 squad for three to four years
over a 2005 Southeast Asian Games match-fixing scandal.


Popular star striker Pham Van Quyen, 22, and his teammate Le Van
Truong will be banned from all football events for four years,
said the VFF, adding that the suspensions would be reviewed half-
way through their terms.


Four other players -- Huynh Quoc Anh, Tran Hai Lam, Le Bat Hieu
and Chau Le Phuoc Vinh -- will be suspended for three years for
their role in fixing the match against Myanmar at the 23rd SEA
Games in the Philippines.


"These six former players are banned from all football events
held by the VFF for three or four years from the signing date of
this decision," VFF's deputy chairman Vu Van Vinh told AFP.


"However, after they have served half of their suspension
periods, and if their morals have improved and they are still
active and interested in playing football, the VFF will
reconsider their cases."


The six players -- who all received suspended jail terms of at
least two years and fines in a high-profile Ho Chi Minh City
corruption trial in January -- were also each fined 310 dollars
by the VFF.


Team vice captain Le Quoc Vuong was sentenced to six years' jail
in January for organising the scam and bribing his fellow players
to ensure Vietnam, the strong favourites, beat Myanmar by just
1-0 in the match in Manila.


Vuong has appealed the verdict, and the VFF said it would decide
on disciplinary action against him after an appeals court reached
a final verdict.


Truong Tan Hai, a former Saigon Port club player, was jailed for
three years in the trial for acting as the middleman between the
team and the betting syndicate's kingpin, Ly Quoc Ky, who remains
at large.


Football betting and other forms of gambling are illegal but
widespread in communist-ruled Vietnam, where many fans place bets
online with networks based inside the country or in Hong Kong,
Macau and other cities.

