

Hong Kong cardinal Joseph Zen said Wednesday Pope Benedict XVI
has rejected his request to retire as the head of the city's
Catholic Church so he can continue to oversee China affairs.


Zen, who has already reached the retirement age for diocesan
bishops at 75, said he has been informed by the Vatican that he
should stay on as Hong Kong bishop despite his repeated request
to be relieved from duty.


"The Holy Father has decided not to accept my repeated request,"
Zen said in a statement.


"His Holiness Benedict XVI has decided that I carry on as the
Bishop of Hong Kong and, in that position, do whatever I can to
participate in the concerns for the Church in China in
collaboration with the Holy See until it will be arranged
otherwise," he said.


Zen, head of the 250,000 Catholics in the territory, did not say
how long this would mean until he can retire and his spokesman
declined to comment.


Nevertheless, Zen said he was willing to obey the Pope's
decision.


"Obedience is fundamental duty grounded in our Sacramental
Ordination. I look up to the example of St Joseph and submit
myself to the will of God," he said, but he called on the Holy
See to find his replacement soon.


The Shanghai-born Zen has been at the forefront of the move to
improve diplomatic ties with Beijing. In January, the Vatican
said it was setting up a permanent commission to handle China
affairs.


Benedict XVI has tried to restore ties with China since he took
over the papacy in 2005, but their relations strained after
several bishops were ordained last year without his approval.


Diplomatic relations between Beijing and the Vatican were severed
in 1951, two years after the Communist Party took control of the
country.


While Catholicism is allowed in China, a state-sanctioned
"patriotic Church" with an estimated five million members does
not answer to the pope and ordains its own bishops.


A clandestine Church, with some 10 million adherents, tenaciously
maintains links with the Vatican.

