

Pakistan's top judge was suspended after strong-arming a series
of promotions for his son, according to charges filed by
President Pervez Musharraf and published for the first time
Wednesday.


The March 9 suspension of Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry has
triggered one of the biggest crises of Musharraf's rule, with
thousands of demonstrators again protesting Wednesday in Lahore
and Islamabad.


As well as pushing his son into well-placed jobs, Chaudhry also
assembled a fleet of cars and demanded the use of planes that he
was not entitled to, the misconduct allegations said.


It is the first time the charges against Chaudhry have been
detailed since the crisis over his suspension began, as state
media had previously only said that he was charged with
misconduct and abuse of office.


"The reference by the president published in the media was leaked
by Chaudhry's lawyer. But it is true," a senior law ministry
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Chaudhry's chief lawyer Aitzaz Ahsan denied the "baseless"
accusations against the suspended chief justice and said he and
his team had not leaked the document.


"Why would we leak the charge-sheet?" Ahsan told AFP.


"This charge-sheet is childish, in fact these are not charges.
There is not a single charge on financial corruption against the
chief justice."


The list of allegations says Chaudhry "committed misconduct by
employing his position to gain undue advantage for Dr Arsalan
Iftikhar," his son.


"He unlawfully used his position as a judge and chief justice of
the Supreme Court of Pakistan to influence, harass and intimidate
all concerned and compelled them to act in an unlawful manner,"
it adds.


According to the allegations, Chaudhry's son was promoted rapidly
through the health department of southwestern Baluchistan despite
not having passed a basic college exam.


They claim he was transferred to the Federal Investigation Agency
where he again landed a series of increasingly senior jobs.


Chaudhry then allegedly pushed officials for his son to be given
a position with the police in Punjab province and arranged for
him to waive some of the training.


The charges also claim Chaudhry has the use of seven official
cars when he is only meant to have one; that he orders traffic to
be stopped for his convoy; and that he demands use of aircraft
assigned to senior government officials.


The misconduct allegations were handed in to Pakistan's Supreme
Judicial Council.


The suspended chief justice had been due to appear on Wednesday
before the body for the third closed-door hearing into the
charges, but the hearing was postponed at the last minute until
April 3.


"It is because of the baseless nature of allegations that the
chief justice wants an open hearing into the presidential
reference," said Munir Malik, another of Chaudhry's lawyers.


Musharraf's removal of Chaudhry has sparked a series of violent
protests, with police firing tear gas at demonstrators in
Islamabad on Friday and Lahore on Saturday.


Pakistan's legal establishment has led the opposition to the
president's action. Eight judges and a deputy attorney general
have quit over the row while lawyers have been staging near-daily
strikes and rallies.

