

North Korean nuclear disarmament talks stalled again on Wednesday
as Pyongyang refused to come to the negotiating table until 25
million dollars in frozen funds were back in its coffers.


Planned meetings of the chief envoys to the six-nation talks on
Wednesday morning did not take place, officials involved in the
negotiations said, as North Korea insisted it would not talk
until the money was safely returned.


"It is difficult for me at the moment to predict when the plenary
meeting among the chief delegates will open today," chief South
Korean envoy Chun Yung-Woo told reporters.


"It depends on North Korea... If North Korea keeps insisting that
it should not take part in the discussions at all before the
transfer of the money, it will be difficult to have the plenary
talks."


Authorities in Macau, where the money has been frozen since 2005
due to US accusations of North Korean money laundering and
counterfeiting, said this week it would be released to a North
Korean bank account.


But no one involved in the process has said when this will take
place.


North Korea has repeatedly said it will not begin implementing a
six-nation disarmament accord signed on February 13 until the
money is safely back in its hands.


The United States announced on Monday, at the start of the latest
round of six- nation talks, that it had struck a deal with North
Korea to end the dispute and the frozen money would be returned.


The United States insisted that it had received assurances from
North Korea that the money would be used only for "humanitarian
and educational purposes," however officials from Pyongyang have
not said where the funds will go.


Despite the hold-up in the talks, which have been plagued by
delays and arguments since beginning in 2003, parties remained
confident that the key initial steps of the February 13 accord
could be implemented on schedule.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic test in October
last year, agreed in the deal to close its main nuclear reactor
at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow International Atomic Energy
Agency inspectors back into the country.


In return, North Korea would initially receive 50,000 tonnes of
heavy fuel for energy use.


Reporting "good progress" at the talks, China's foreign ministry
on Tuesday afternoon said the North had indicated it would abide
by the accord.


"We found that North Korea is ready to shut down and seal the
facility in Yongbyon and accept the monitoring and supervision of
the International Atomic Energy Agency," ministry spokesman Liu
Jianchao told reporters.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill also said on Tuesday night, after
meeting with North Korean negotiator Kim Kye-Gwan for an hour,
that achieving the initial phase of the agreement remained a
realistic possibility.


"We are pretty much on schedule," he said.


North Korea would eventually receive one million tonnes of heavy
fuel or equivalent energy aid if it permanently closed its
nuclear facilities and completely disbanded its atomic weapons
programme.


The six-nation talks involve China, the two Koreas, the United
States, Japan and Russia.

