

The United States has considerably lowered its democratic
requirements for Egypt, a key ally in Washington's efforts to
revive the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.


Washington had been tough on the human rights record of Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak's regime, until issuing muted criticism
Tuesday of controversial constitutional reforms being rushed to a
popular vote by Cairo next week.


"You have to put this in the wider context of political and
economic reform in Egypt," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said when asked about the reforms that the Egyptian
opposition has denounced as anti-democratic.


McCormack declined to discuss specifics of the contested
constitutional amendments, saying, "I don't want to offer at this
point too detailed an explanation of our views."


"I, quite frankly, don't want to insert the United States
government in the middle of what should be a domestic political
event in Egypt," he said at a news briefing.


The shift in tone came as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
prepared to travel this week on a Middle East tour focused on
Arab-Israeli peace efforts that includes a meeting with Mubarak
and other Arab officials Saturday in the southern Egyptian city
of Aswan.


President George W. Bush's administration has made revival of the
Middle East peace process a priority since his Republican Party
lost control of Congress to Democrats in November elections
fueled by anger over the Iraq war.


And Egypt, a rare Arab state to have signed a peace treaty with
Israel, is a key US ally with influence on moderate Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah faction as well as the rival Hamas
Islamist movement of prime minister Ismail Haniya.


The muffled US reaction Tuesday was in marked contrast to
statements made by Rice soon after she became secretary of state
in January 2005, openly calling for greater democracy and freedom
in Egypt.


In a message to Arab leaders during a speech at the American
University in Cairo in June 2005, Rice said "the fear of free
choices can no longer justify the denial of liberty" and that it
was "time to abandon the excuses that are made to avoid the hard
work of democracy."


The chief US diplomat, who considers democratization as the
Middle East's best weapon against terrorism, had also called for
free presidential elections in Egypt and met with opposition
leader Ayman Nur.


But McCormack brushed aside Tuesday Egyptian opposition
complaints that the constitutional changes were being rushed to a
referendum without sufficient time for voters to judge the
changes.


"In the modern world, today, it is certainly theoretically
possible to obtain and analyze a large amount of information in a
short period of time," he said.


Egypt's government-dominated parliament approved late Monday the
amendments to 34 articles of the constitution proposed by
Mubarak.


The government then said the changes would be put to a referendum
on March 26, 10 days earlier than previously planned.


Mubarak says the changes will enhance democracy by strengthening
the role of political parties.


But critics say the amendments are designed to pre-empt recent
political gains by the opposition and pave the way for Mubarak's
son, Gamal, to take over the reins of power.


The contested amendments include repealing judicial supervision
of ballot boxes that was credited by the opposition for their
gains in recent elections, and allowing authorities to arrest
suspects, search their homes, read their mail and tap their
phones without a warrant.


Pressed by reporters about some of the more controversial
elements, McCormack acknowledged "some concerns" about certain
amendments which appear to run counter to government promises
concerning police powers and the evolution of multi-party
politics.


"I think, if you look at some of the amendments that have been
finally passed by the lower house, it does certainly raise
questions about whether or not the Egyptian government has in
fact met its own standards and benchmarks," he said

