

A London investment agency opened shop in San Francisco on
Tuesday to tout the British capital as a preferred spot for
technology firms expanding into Europe.


In the past 18 months, Think London has worked with Internet
search powerhouse Google and with the world's largest software
company, Microsoft, to open offices in the British capital.


Other Internet companies expanding into London include MySpace,
MobiTV, Bebo, and Sling Box maker Sling Media, David Riches of
Think London said as he commemorated the new office's opening at
a gathering in downtown San Francisco.


"About half our business comes from the United Kingdom, so there
is every reason for us to be there," said Peter van Pruissen of
Piczo, a San Francisco start-up billed as a safe online teen
networking alternative to MySpace.


"We think it's a perfect springboard to manage and launch our
efforts into other countries in Europe. It is a perfect location
for us to operate from."


A trend of increasing convergence, companies forming alliances to
take advantage of each other's strengths, has made San Francisco
and London preferred locales for business, according to a study
sponsored by accounting group BDO International.


The study conducted in January and February of this year surveyed
112 senior executives at information and communication technology
companies based in the United States or London.


More than 80 percent of the executives felt that convergence was
driving innovation and strategy in the industry and 92 percent
said they wanted all the necessary components in one place.


Components were listed as a fertile mix of related businesses and
access to financing, talented staff, markets, and technological
infrastructure such as wireless networks and high-capacity data
connections.


San Francisco and London were named as preferred cities by 51
percent of the executives surveyed.


"San Francisco we know as being a global leader in convergence,"
Riches said. "London is coming on as well."


A comparatively favorable tax structure for businesses has been
part of London's appeal, but could be on the verge of changing,
said Don Williams, head of BDO's technology, media and telecom
division.


Britain's courts have proven to be more understanding to, and
understandable for, technology firms, said lawyer Rafi Azim-Khan
of Wragge and Co.


Legal rulings against Google in Belgium and iPod-maker Apple in
France have made major technology firms leery of European
countries without common law court systems based on evolving case
precedent, according to Azim-Khan.


"Global brands born in California, such as Apple and Google, have
established international operations in London because the core
components of convergence come together there," said Think London
chief executive Michael Charlton.

