

The United States has urged Taiwan to expand economic links with
China if it is to be a regional business hub, saying its national
interests would not be endangered by closer ties.


In an address to the American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham) here,
Stephen Young, director of the American Institute in Taiwan
(AIT), hailed recent progress made in cross-Strait links.


Taiwan's further opening of its economic relationship with China
"is critical if this island is to become a regional and global
centre," he said late Tuesday.


"Amcham members have benefited from measures that increased the
number of mainland employees that can travel to Taiwan for
business meetings," Young said, referring to charter flights at
four major holidays.


"However, more needs to be done ... We look forward to progress
soon on expanding cross-Strait charter flights and further
opening of Taiwan to tourists from the mainland," he aded.


Direct transportation, commerce and postal services between
Taiwan and China, better known as "three links" here -- have been
cut since Taipei and Beijing split in 1949 at the end of a civil
war.


Cargo and passenger services do exist but they are made through
third parties, mainly Hong Kong.


Calls for the resumption of direct links have been mounting given
ever closer economic ties but Taiwan says government-level
negotiations -- which would imply Beijing recognition -- are
required before the ban can be lifted.


Taiwan also fears its security could be compromised in light of
China's military build-up.


The United States switched its diplomatic recognition from Taipei
to Beijing in 1979 and has since maintained an official presence
through the AIT.


"The United States understands and appreciates concerns here that
Taiwan's economy may be vulnerable because of its economic
exposure to mainland China. However, I believe that kind of
influence runs both ways," Young said.


Chinese corporates and executives would be exposed to higher
standards of corporate governance and best practices, he said.


"In addition, closer economic relations, especially with the
influx of more PRC (Peope's Republic of China) tourists, will
hold the potent example of Taiwan's democracy up for the people
of China."


He said that as long as Taiwan retains its ability to defend
itself there is no need for Taiwan to fear closer ties with its
huge and rapidly growing neighbor.


China considers the island part of its territory and threatens to
use force should it declare formal independence.


Despite the tensions, China has been Taiwan's largest trading
partner since late 2002 and the island's businessmen have been
major investors on the mainland.


Bilateral trade in 2006 rose to 88.12 billion US dollars, up 15.4
percent, according to figures released by Taiwan's Board of
Foreign Trade.


The figure accounted for 20.7 percent of Taiwan's total external
trade in 2006, compared with 20 percent in 2005.


Last year, Taiwan registered a trade surplus with China of 38.54
billion dollars, up 6.6 percent.

