

Islamic separatists in Thailand's restive south are adopting Al-
Qaeda's tactics, a top Thai general said Wednesday after a wave
of gruesome beheadings and seemingly random attacks on civilians.


The increasingly bloody violence shows the growing Islamic
influence on the separatists, General Watanachai Chaimuanwong
told AFP in an interview at his office in the prime minister's
Government House compound.


The Muslim-majority region along Thailand's southern border with
Malaysia has suffered outbreaks of separatist violence ever since
Bangkok annexed the area a century ago.


But Watanachai, the top security adviser to army-installed Prime
Minister Surayud Chulanont, said that while previous generations
of rebels were mainly motivated by nationalism, today's militants
showed a greater tendency toward religious extremism.


"This is a group of young turk militants who want to challenge
the old groups. Their operations are more gruesome and more
violent because they have imported those techniques from Al-Qaeda
and the Taliban, with the goal of creating a pure Islamic state,"
he told AFP.


"They want to create a state called Pattani Darusalam" which
would include Thailand's Muslim-majority south and two northern
states in Malaysia, he said.


Attacks in the region have become more frequent, and the violence
more gratuitous, since the military seized power in Bangkok six
months ago.


An ice cream vendor was beheaded in broad daylight last month,
his body left slumping on his cart. Militants beheaded another
Buddhist man two weeks ago, setting his body ablaze on a roadside
and leaving his head in the middle of the road a kilometre away.


As a former deputy chief of the army -- who now wears dark
business suits instead of military uniforms -- 63-year-old
Watanachai has dealt with the insurgency since the latest unrest
erupted in January 2004.


The militants have never claimed responsibility for any of their
attacks, and have never made any demands of the government.


Watanachai said security forces believed the militants had formed
a new group called Rundi Kumpulan Kecil (RKK), which translates
roughly as "Small Guerrilla Group," recruiting students from
Islamic boarding schools as well as unemployed youths.


"There are up to 20,000 of these militants active in the three
southern provinces, but their recruitment is slower now because
the government has imposed strict controls on the boarding
schools," he said.


Watanachai said the government expected a surge in violence after
Thailand and Malaysia agreed last month to step up cooperation to
end unrest that has left more than 2,000 dead in the past three
years.


The rebels have also struggled to recruit new members from
outside of the provinces of Narathiwat, Pattani and Yala, the
former army chief added.


As a result, he said, the rebels had a hard time staging attacks
outside the region.


However, he cautioned that authorities were now linking the
insurgents -- but not their cause -- to deadly bombings in
Bangkok on New Year's Eve which killed three people and wounded
more than 40.


He insisted the attacks were not linked to the southern unrest,
saying someone connected to the political turmoil in Bangkok had
hired the militants to stage the attacks to further their own
interests.


"The explosive devices were the kind commonly used in the south,
and the people who made the bombs were militants who worked in
the south, but they were hired to mount the attacks for another
purpose," Watanachai said.


Militants in the south operate through a loose structure in which
the actual attackers never see or interact with their commanders,
he said.


"They would be asked by telephone to kill or behead someone. When
they leave their house, they are empty-handed, but they go to
pick up weapons at a pre- arranged drop point, without knowing
who their commander is," he said.


In some cases, the young fighters are provided with drugs or cash
for conducting attacks, Watanachai added.


New recruits spend up to 30 days in training in the deep jungle
along the border, in caves, or even in abandoned buildings in
towns, he said.


Watanachai warned the militants may be planning more spectacular
attacks, including an assassination plot against a "prominent
person" to draw attention to their cause.

