

Heavy fighting erupted Wednesday in the Somali capital killing at
least eight people in a dramatic escalation that saw stray rounds
flying over southern Mogadishu, residents said.


The clashes, pitting Ethiopian troops backing government forces
against suspected Islamist insurgents, come a day after African
Union peacekeepers reinforced security in the seaside capital.


Residents said the heavy weaponry duels, which left at least
eight dead and several wounded, erupted when the insurgents
opened fire in the former defence ministry headquarters in
southern Mogadishu, where Ethiopian troops are based.


"So far, I have seen four bodies of people killed and several
others wounded. The fighting is intensifying and stray bullets
are flying all over the area," said Abdullahi Ahmed Sheikh, a
resident of Shukri area.


Another resident Mohamed Ali Sheke said: "I have seen three
government forces killed in Hilweyne military camp. Their bodies
are still lying in the area."


"A stray bullet killed my neighbour and wounded five others, one
of them is a child," added Muhubo Moalim Dahir, a resident of Al-
Baraka area.


Other civilian residential belts that were pounded by stray
rounds were inaccessible, they added.


Somali-Ethiopian forces responded to the attack with heavy
artillery fire in a bid to take over areas surrounding their oft-
targeted base believed to be insurgents' hideout, residents said.


"The Ethiopians responded with unbelievable fire," said Mohamed
Ali Nur, a resident.


"They ... want to take over Odweyne area from the gunmen," added
Abdi Elmi Hassan, another resident.


Dozens of people have died since January when joint Somali-
Ethiopian forces ousted an Islamist movement from south and
central Somalia, including the capital, but insurgents and allied
factions have responded with deadly guerrilla warfare.


Currently, at least 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda are in
Mogadishu, an initial deployment of 8,000 troops the African
countries plan to send to the war-fatigued nation.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

