

Algerian security forces are stepping up an offensive against
Islamic militants believed linked to Al-Qaeda, raiding targets in
cities and mountain hideouts.


Courts are also being used against the Salafist Group for
Preaching and Combat (GSPC), which announced in September that it
was linking up with Osama bin Laden's extremist group and has
staged a growing number of attacks.


The death of three Algerian soldiers on Sunday is just the latest
sign of the growing threat. Four soldiers were also wounded
during fighting at Bouira, 120 kilometres (75 miles) east of
Algiers, in the troubled Kabylie region, the daily El Watan
reported.


The security forces said they killed five militants during the
gun battle and 20 in total during recent operations.


The police have increased their sweeps through the cities since
the GSPC made its pact with Al-Qaeda.


The army has been scouring the mountainous Kabylie region. But
even using helicopters and artillery, it is no easy task for the
military to flush out the estimated 300 fighters who can hide in
caves hidden in Kabylie's inaccessible mountains.


The GSPC, which now dubs itself the "Armed Branch of Al-Qaeda in
Islamic Maghreb", has claimed responsibility for a series of
deadly attacks on American and Russian targets.


Russians and Ukranians were among seven people killed in a March
3 attack on a bus carrying employees of a Russian firm laying gas
pipes in the Medea region south of Algiers. The GSPC said it was
to avenge Russia's actions in Chechnya.


According to an Algerian press toll, at least 34 people have been
killed this month alone.


Since the start of the year, police have rounded up dozens of
people as part of a crackdown in a bid to halt recruitment to the
Islamist networks.


Among those picked up are former militants who had laid down
their weapons during a February 2006 amnesty.


Despite their efforts however, press reports suggest that local
youths are continuing to join the militants.


The courts meanwhile are also responding to the violence.


One judgment handed down in the eastern town of Batna on Saturday
sentenced the GSPC founder Hassan Hattab and one of the group's
regional chiefs to death in absentia on terrorism-related
offences.


Hattab broke with the GSPC over its decision to affiliate with
Al-Qaeda.


There have been a series of tough judgements handed down against
the militants in a renewed drive by the judiciary to process a
rash of Islamist-related cases going through courts -- 170 in
Algiers alone.


Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika reaffirmed his
determination to "tear out terrorism at its root", in a message
to his Tunisian counterpart Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Monday.


A Tunisian spokesman said in January that the GSPC had been
"almost totally eradicated" there after 14 militants were killed
in in two gunbattles with security forces near Tunis at the turn
of the year.


Tunis said the group had been planning an attack there.


The United States is also monitoring developments closely.


Last week, the US embassy in Algiers warned its citizens of a
possible attack on flights carrying Western workers in Algeria.


The group is already on the US government's list of terrorist
organisations


France also has cause to be worried. When it announced its new
Al-Qaeda alliance, the GSPC singled out France as its "enemy
number one" and issued a call for action against the country.

