

There are few things that will calm an 1,100-pound (500-kilogram)
moose when it gets its antlers caught in a children's swing and
starts dragging it through the streets of Anchorage, Alaska.


But "moose whisperer" Rick Sinnott isn't fond of tranquilizers.
They cost the state of Alaska 300 or 400 dollars (225 to 300
euros) a shot and aren't very good for the moose. So, whenever
possible, he relies on guile and nerves of steel.


"Sometimes you can get a rope around their hind leg and pull 'em
down, jump on 'em and throw something on their heads," Sinnott
said as he drove through the streets of Anchorage on the lookout
for stray moose.


"Once you cover their eyes, they get a lot calmer and stop
struggling," he said. "But usually they're charging and it's too
dangerous."


There are about 700 to 1,000 moose which spend the winter in
Anchorage, a sprawling coastal city of 275,000 people filled with
miles of parkland and green belts and surrounded by some of the
most untouched wilderness in the world.


And moose get into all sorts of trouble.


They get tangled in strings of Christmas lights.


They get stuck in narrow alleys because they don't back up real
well. They fall through the ice into lakes and get stuck in bogs.


Cows jump over fences and then get upset when their calves can't
follow them.


Sometimes they show up with real arrows stuck in their hides from
people who think a sharp tap on the backside will scare them away
from their flower beds.


For the past 23 years, Sinnott, the management biologist in
charge of Anchorage for the Alaska department of fish and game,
has been the one to go out to rescue them.


The only time he was badly hurt was when he was freeing a
bleating calf that was hanging by its back hoof from a fence it
couldn't quite get over.


The mother was nowhere to be seen, but Sinnott knew she couldn't
be far away. And if she spotted him near her baby she'd get very,
very angry.


So Sinnott didn't keep a close eye on the calf, and as he lifted
it over the fence he got clocked in the head by a hoof.


"I saw stars."


A host of other animals -- including grizzly bears, black bears,
lynx, coyotes, wolves, foxes, porcupines, goats and sheep -- also
make their homes in Anchorage, but it's the moose which are the
most dangerous, said Sinnott.


"They're one of the most dangerous animals in town, partly
because people get so used to 'em," he said, explaining that the
grizzly and black bears which live in town are far less likely to
attack.


"Every year about a half dozen people get hurt badly enough (in
moose attacks) to go to hospital."


A couple of people have been killed in recent years: an elderly
man attacked by a moose that was blocking the entrance to the
local pool and an elderly woman trampled in her back yard.


Sinnott gets about 500 calls a year from people complaining about
the moose. Usually, it's a simple matter of a moose in the yard
chomping on expensive decorative plants.


"In May, June or July it's people afraid because there's a cow
and calf camped out in their front yard and they can't go outside
because every time they do the moose charges," he said.


"We don't respond to those calls," Sinnott said, explaining that
if he did he'd spend the spring and summer chasing the same cows
from one yard to the next.


Most people accept that explanation, but when they insist on
having Sinnott come out he tells them if he does he'll end up
having to shoot the moose.


Few ask him to, and Sinnott rarely complies except in cases where
the moose is clearly a threat and he is unable to move it safely
on his own.


Hunting is not allowed within the city limits, but people are
allowed to shoot moose if they are threatening life or property.


Sinnott said he isn't very "hard-nosed" in his investigation of
animal shootings, but he does take the carcass away and if it's a
moose the meat it will get donated to charity. A large buck can
yield about 400 pounds of meat which is enough to feed a family
of four for the entire winter.


Despite the frequent calls, most residents are happy to have the
moose and other critters in town, Sinnott said, explaining that
his department did a survey about 10 years ago and found that
three quarters of the residents think there are the right amount
of bears and moose in town.


Sinnott likes to think of Anchorage as a model for how to
incorporate wildlife into the fabric of a city.


"A lot of people have this idea that cities are for people and
parks are for wild animals," he said. But as cities and farmland
expand, and development eats up parkland within city limits that
leaves little room for wildlife.


"It would be a pretty poor world if that were the case," he
added.

