

China added two more gold medals to its glittering diving
collection Wednesday with Luo Yutong and prodigy Wang Xin earning
the sporting powerhouse its third and fourth titles here so far.


Luo Yutong won the men's 1m springboard world crown with a score
of 477.40 points from compatriot He Chong who took silver and
Christopher Sacchin of Italy with the bronze.


The tiny Wang, only 14 years old but who has been training since
she was eight, proved she is serious Olympic prospect with
another upset win over her teammate Chen Ruolin.


Chen, also 14, was the hot favourite after a breakthrough 2006
but Wang shocked her by stealing the Asian Games title in
December and again here after Chen comfortably topped the
preliminaries and semi-final.


Wang amassed 432.85 points to Chen's 410.30, with Germany's
Christin Steuer a distant third on 361.80.


The victory had the added bonus of ensuring China reclaimed a
title it failed to lift at the last two world championships.


Luo, from the southern Chinese city of Guangdong, only switched
from the 10m platform to springboard last year and won two titles
in the 3m synchro event with Xu Xiang on the Grand Prix circuit.


The 21-year-old showed his potential in the solo events by
grabbing silver in the 1m springboard at the 2006 World Cup in
Changshu.


He admitted he was nervous and could have done better.


"I didn't perform very well but also didn't perform very bad. I
performed as usual," he said.


"I just focused on my performance. I focused on how to do my best
and didn't pay attention to anything else.


"But it's my first time (at a world championship) and I was
pretty nervous. Next time I will be even better."


Luo was always one step ahead of He, going through the
preliminary round and semi-final in the lead, progressively
bettering his dives before taking the gold before a spartan crowd
at the Melbourne Sports and Aquatic Centre.


He, 19, went into the event as favourite but failed to impress
the judges during the preliminary round. He demonstrated a series
of top-quality dives in the semi-final but was unable to match
Luo's near-perfect dives in the final.


"I wanted to win, but I couldn't concentrate well. I was feeling
very nervous. My teammate did very well but I didn't do the best
for myself," he said.


He will be back in action on Wednesday in the 3m spiringboard,
where he is the world number one.


Sacchin dived consistently throughout the competition in what was
his first major final appearance and he was ecstatic, leading the
event after the first dive.


"My God. What a feeling. It's a great feeling, I cannot even
explain it. My mouth dried up, I can only say I'm very happy," he
said.


"I drove them (Chinese divers) mad, so then they reacted, but I
managed to keep close to them."


China is aiming to better the disappointing five out of 10 titles
it won at the last championships in Montreal two years ago.

