

Famously described as "semi-detached" from Europe, Britain is
feting this week's 50th anniversary of the EU's founding treaty
in low-key style, as the capital of a growing eurosceptic zone.


Prime Minister Tony Blair will attend glamour celebrations in
Berlin on Sunday to celebrate the 1957 Treaty of Rome, the
cornerstone of today's EU. But he will be keenly aware that
British doubts are now shared by many other leaders, including
from the EU's new members in eastern Europe.


And as Blair prepares to leave office later this year, there are
few signs that his island nation will fundamentally change its
attitude to the 27-country club anytime soon, particularly under
his expected successor, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown.


Brown is notorious in Brussels for lecturing his EU counterparts
on the benefits of free-market economic policy, and of leaving EU
meetings early through boredom or frustration.


"It's no secret that the EU is not exactly close to the heart of
Gordon Brown," said Marco Incerti of the Brussels-based Centre
for European Studies (CEPS) a think tank.


Britain has had a fractious relationship with its European allies
ever since France initially vetoed British entry to the then
European Economic Community in 1963. Britain eventually joined a
decade later.


Over the years Britain's exasperation has focused generally on
protectionism, and notably on the Common Agricultural Policy
(CAP), the bloc's long-disputed aid system which benefits French
farmers in particular.


Along with equally euro-ambivalent Denmark and Sweden, Britain
also refused to join the EU's historic single currency project,
which saw euro coins and notes introduced in 2002.


More recently, Blair's decision to back the United States over
invading Iraq strained ties with his EU partners nearly to
breaking point -- and nearly blew apart the EU's embryonic joint
foreign policy.


But for eurosceptics the greatest moment came in 2005 when voters
in France and the Netherlands -- two of the six founding members
of the EU -- catastrophically ditched the EU's hard-fought
constitution.


For Blair, the double blow was both bad and good news -- bad
since he had personally signed up to the constitution, but good
because it avoided Britain taking the blame for the EU pact's
demise, as some had feared.


For critics this sums up Blair's -- and indeed Britain's --
ambivalent attitude to Europe. Indeed some suggest, only half
jokingly, that Britain only joined the EU in order to scupper a
Franco-German led edifice from the inside.


It is no secret that Britain was a champion of the bloc's
eastwards expansion, which has diluted the EU's Paris-Berlin
dominance and introduced a surge of British-style freemarket zeal
from ex-communist newcomers.


Coincidentally -- or perhaps not -- some of the new EU members
are among the most eurosceptic. After decades under the Soviet
yoke they are reluctant to start taking orders from Brussels.


"London is now joined on the podium of euroscepticism by two of
the newcomers: Poland and the Czech Republic," said Incerti of
CEPS.


Blair insists next weekend's Berlin Declaration -- which under
the current German EU presidency will reportedly avoid all
reference to the "constitution," to prevent any unseemly rows --
is something to celebrate.


"It will be a very good thing for the whole of Europe to
celebrate 50 years of the European Union, which has brought peace
and prosperity to a continent that used to be ravaged by war,"
said Blair.


But at home eurosceptics -- including Tory leader David Cameron,
who some say could yet oust a Labour government at the next
elections as early as 2009 -- pour scorn on that notion.


"The only concrete indication of (German Chancellor Angela)
Merkel's vision of the future of Europe is that it will be based
on the discredited social model," said eurosceptic UK
Independence Party chairman John Whittaker.


"The nanny state will remain supreme, and European
competitiveness will continue to decline."

