

One paints a dispassionate view of the man better known as
Mahatma Gandhi, the other stirs controversy about his murder.
Both are fuelling renewed interest in the humble father of modern
India.


Two newly-released chronicles of Gandhi's life and death, written
by his descendants, have sold more than 10,000 copies each in
nearly a month since they were launched. In India, a non-fiction
book can become a bestseller with more than 7,000 copies sold.


Publishers said the sales proved Gandhi's legacy was relevant 59
years after his death and provided evidence of renewed interest
that was sparked last year by a blockbuster comedy movie in which
the leader plays mentor to gangsters.


"Lage Raho Munnabhai" (Carry on, Munnabhai) played to packed
houses for weeks after it was released last September.


"The film struck a popular chord and put much more media focus on
Gandhi," said Thomas Abraham, CEO of Penguin India, publishers of
"Mohandas: A True Story of a Man, His People, and an Empire" by
Rajmohan Gandhi.


"Gandhi and his message will always be relevant, and a book on
him will always be received with interest," said Kapish Mehra,
who heads Rupa & Co., publishers of "Let's Kill Gandhi!" by
Gandhi's great grandson Tushar Gandhi.


But it is not just interest that one of the books has generated.
Two court cases have been filed against Tushar Gandhi for
"insulting a particular community" in a reference to high-caste
Brahmin Hindus.


In his book, Tushar Gandhi seeks to demolish some of the theories
revolving around Gandhi's assassination in 1948 by Nathuram
Godse, a right-wing Hindu extremist said to have opposed
perceived pampering of Muslims by the leader.


In the process, the leader's great grandson rakes up a host of
contentious claims -- chiefly that some Brahmins were against
Gandhi's idea of a casteless society which threatened their sway
over India's ancient hierarchical system.


"Brahmins dominated both the (right-wing outfits) RSS and Hindu
Mahasabha and were angry with Gandhi for having started the
movement for a classless, casteless Indian society," the writer
says in the book.


Tushar Gandhi also points a finger at India's historic Congress
party -- instrumental in the fight against British colonial rule
and which is now in power -- for not acting on intelligence
reports about a threat to Gandhi's life.


A review by leading Outlook news magazine called some of the
claims "sensationalist rather than credible" and "naive rather
than new, and emotional".


But an unfazed Tushar Gandhi said he was glad the book had
generated debate.


"I will not react to the police complaints. They can put me in
prison. The book needs to be talked about and debated," he told
AFP.


"My objective was not to take revenge, but sound the alarm about
the divisive policies that the world is slipping into and which
Gandhi was opposed to," Tushar Gandhi said.


In contrast, the book by grandson Rajmohan Gandhi has generated
acclaim for providing an exhaustive account of Gandhi's life
without forsaking objectivity and getting bogged down in too much
detail from extensive existing writing.


"The study is a bid to free Gandhi the person from his image or
images, and to present his life fully and honestly," Rajmohan
Gandhi says, as he traces Gandhi's life as a timid youth who
would one day shape world history.


The book "Mohandas" -- Mahatma Gandhi's first name -- travels
with the pacifist leader from India to Britain where he studied,
and then to South Africa where he was humiliated by the British,
and finally back to India.


In the nearly 700 pages, the author unravels Mohandas Karamchand
Gandhi -- called Mahatama (great soul) out of reverence -- as a
man, rather than as a world leader.


The biography details Gandhi's life as the boy who married at 12
but was afraid of ghosts; the youth who took violin and French
lessons to indulge an "infatuation" with becoming an English
gentleman, and his troubled relationship with his eldest son
Harilal, who became an alcoholic.


"Mohandas" also talks about the strong attraction which Gandhi
felt for writer Saraladevi Chaudhurani, a niece of Nobel laureate
Rabindranath Tagore, and which threatened to strain his relations
with his family.


In the process, the biography weaves in stories of India's
freedom struggle against British colonial rule which ended in
1947, the partition of India and Pakistan from an undivided
territory, and the origins of democracy in India.


"This is the story of someone who was neither simple to
understand, nor easy to live with, nor a stranger to error or to
defeat, but who continues to inspire many and interest many
more," writes Rajmohan Gandhi.

