

Islamic separatists in Thailand's restive south are adopting Al-
Qaeda's tactics, a top Thai general said Wednesday after a wave
of gruesome beheadings and seemingly random attacks on civilians.


The increasingly bloody violence shows the growing Islamic
influence on the separatists, General Watanachai Chaimuanwong
told AFP in an interview.


The Muslim-majority region along Thailand's southern border with
Malaysia has suffered outbreaks of separatist violence ever since
Bangkok annexed the area a century ago.


But Watanachai, the top security adviser to army-installed Prime
Minister Surayud Chulanont, said that while previous generations
of rebels were mainly motivated by nationalism, today's militants
showed a greater tendency toward religious extremism.


"This is a group of young turk militants who want to challenge
the old groups. Their operations are more gruesome and more
violent because they have imported those techniques from Al-Qaeda
and the Taliban with the goal of creating a pure Islamic state,"
he told AFP.


Watanachai said the militants, calling themselves RKK, recruited
students from Islamic boarding schools as well as unemployed
youths.


"There are up to 20,000 of these militants active in the three
southern provinces, but their recruitment is slower now because
the government has imposed strict controls on the boarding
schools," he said.


Watanachai said the government expected a surge in violence after
Thailand and Malaysia agreed last month to step up cooperation to
end unrest that has left more than 2,000 dead over the last three
years.


The rebels have also struggled to recruit new members from
outside of the provinces of Narathiwat, Pattani and Yala, the
former army chief added.


As a result, he said, the rebels have a hard time staging attacks
outside the region.


However, he cautioned that authorities were now linking the
insurgents -- but not their cause -- to deadly bombings in
Bangkok on New Year's Eve which killed three people and wounded
more than 40.


He insisted that the attacks were not linked to the southern
unrest, saying someone connected to the political turmoil in
Bangkok had hired the militants to stage the attacks to further
their own interests.


"The explosive devices were the kind commonly used in the south,
and the people who made the bombs were militants who worked in
the south, but they were hired to mount the attacks for another
purpose," Watanachai said.

