

The chief US envoy on North Korea hit out in frustration
Wednesday at the Stalinist regime's tactics, which have dashed
hopes for quick progress at this week's nuclear disarmament
talks.


The latest round of the six-nation talks began Monday on an
optimistic note with the United States announcing it had resolved
a long-running sanctions dispute with North Korea that had been a
major stumbling block in the forum.


The United States said 25 million dollars of North Korean money
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 due to US accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting would be released.


Macau authorities said the money would be transferred into a
North Korean account but by Wednesday the funds had yet to be
delivered.


North Korea has refused to discuss any steps towards disarming
until the money is safely back in its coffers, drawing the ire of
US negotiator Christopher Hill and other participants in the
talks.


"We all have jobs to do. Waiting around for some forms to be
filled out is not usually in our job descriptions," Hill told
reporters after spending Wednesday morning in his hotel room.


"You cannot expect these large delegations to sit around while it
is being sorted out."


Chief South Korean envoy Chun Yung-Woo said the North Koreans had
taken the other negotiators by surprise.


"Nobody expected that such a problem would arise. There are some
technical problems that are beyond our control," Chun said.


An official involved in the talks said the problems included a
time-consuming clearance process as some North Korean bank
account owners turned out to be already dead or not living in
Macau.


It also took time as Macau authorities had to go through the
strict procedures required to remit such a large amount of money
in the international banking system, according to the official,
speaking on condition of anonymity.


Amid speculation that the talks could quickly wrap up, China
scheduled a round- table meeting of chief delegates with the
other five nations -- the United States, the two Koreas, Japan
and Russia -- on Wednesday afternoon.


"I hope we will find out whether they have made any progress on
the banking issue," Hill said.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, agreed last month to shut down its key nuclear
reactor at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors back into the country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


This week's round of talks was meant to consolidate the initial
terms of the six-nation deal and then look forward to a longer-
term road map for complete North Korean disarmament


But Hill said the longer-term aspects of this week's talks now
looked to be off the table.


"Right now it looks like we are not going to be able to make
progress on the denuclearisation issue," he said.


Despite the hold-up in the talks, which have been plagued by
delays and arguments since beginning in 2003, Hill and others
expressed confidence that the key initial steps of the accord
could be implemented on schedule.


"I think they have made it clear on several occasions, including
yesterday, that they will live up to the February agreement,"
Hill said.


Reporting "good progress" at the talks, China's foreign ministry
on Tuesday also said the North had indicated it would abide by
the accord.


North Korea would eventually receive one million tonnes of heavy
fuel or equivalent energy aid if it permanently closed its
nuclear facilities and completely disbanded its atomic weapons
programme.

