

Sri Lanka Wednesday rejected any foreign scrutiny of its human
rights record amid growing international criticism of extra-
judicial killings, abductions and the recruitment of child
soldiers.


Government spokesman Keheliya Rambukwella said Colombo would not
allow any unsolicited monitoring of rights in the embattled
island, but would invite "eminent persons from time time to time"
to assess the situation.


"Many eminent persons have visited Sri Lanka at the invitation of
the government... that is because we have nothing to hide,"
Rambukwella told reporters here. "But, that is by invitation."


"We will protect our sovereignty and will not allow any foreigner
to force on us a set-up to monitor (rights)."


Human rights groups have charged that at least 750 people had
disappeared since the escalation of fighting between government
forces and Tamil Tiger rebels in December 2005.


The bodies of people who had been shot dead "execution-style"
blindfolded with their hands tied behind their back have turned
up in swamps and by the roadside near the capital and elsewhere.


The government has denied involvement in the killings, which have
sparked growing international criticism that the authorities were
not doing enough to bring the offenders to justice.


Human rights groups have also urged the deployment of an
international panel to provide independent monitoring of the
island's rights record.


A UN official last year accused Sri Lankan government forces of
colluding with a breakaway Tamil Tiger group to recruit child
soldiers in the island's east, a charge vehemently denied by the
authorities.


Tamil Tiger rebels have themselves faced criticism over the
recruitment of underage children as combatants.


Sri Lanka introduced draconian prevention of terrorism laws in
December, giving sweeping powers to the police and security
forces to arrest and detain suspects for long periods without
trial.


Amnesty International and other rights groups have noted that the
deteriorating rights record was linked to the escalating conflict
between troops and Tamil Tiger rebels.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest wave of
fighting despite a truce agreed in February 2002.

