

Flash floods triggered by heavy rain and snow killed eight people
in Indian Kashmir, washing away houses and closing highways,
police said Wednesday.


Authorities sounded a "red alert" warning people to beware of
fast-running swollen rivers in the scenic Himalayan region,
battered by bad weather for the past 10 days.


Eight people died due to flash floods, said Javed Ahmed, deputy
police superintendent in the state summer capital Srinagar where
the Jhelum river had flooded homes.


Most of the victims died on Tuesday, police said. But an 18
-month-old baby boy was killed by flooding on Wednesday in south
Kashmir, the area worst hit by the bad weather.


"At least three dozen houses have collapsed in southern Kashmir"
from the flood waters, said Ahmed.


"There's a growing threat to life and property due to non-stop
rain and rising levels in all rivers and streams," added senior
government official Basharat Ahmed.


Teams of civilians, firefighters, police and paramilitary
officials worked side- by-side to pile sandbags to shore up the
banks of the region's main river, the Jhelum, which surged above
the danger level.


Driving rain and snow in Kashmir have closed the Himalayan
region's main highway, cut off roads leading to villages and
district headquarters and shut schools and universities since the
start of last week.


Hundreds of families have been shifted to safer places from low-
lying areas in Srinagar, Budgam and Anantnag districts.


Temperatures were still below zero Celsius (32 Fahreheit)in many
areas and some areas remained inaccessible, police said.


While flood waters washed away some houses, dozens of others
collapsed from the weight of snow on rooftops.


Last week at least 50 people were killed as snow blanketed
Kashmir and torrential rains pounded the rest of northern India.


The bad weather has added to the woes of people in Kashmir where
a deadly insurgency has raged against New Delhi's rule since
1989, claiming tens of thousands of lives.


More than 200 people were killed in Kashmir after the heaviest
snowfall in nearly two decades triggered avalanches in 2005.

