

Pakistani troops shelled foreign militants in a remote tribal
area Wednesday after battles between locals and Uzbek rebels left
at least 51 people dead, officials and residents said.


The shelling near Wana, the main town in mountainous South
Waziristan region bordering Afghanistan, was the military's first
involvement in the violence that broke out on Monday and carried
on throughout Tuesday.


"The military launched shells at foreign militants after
munitions fired by militants landed near their camp in Wana," a
security official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"They retaliated but there were no casualties on either side."


Residents said troops at the army compound fired at least 15
rounds this morning towards the Kalusha and Azam Warsak areas,
the scenes of this week's militant- tribesmen battles.


The fighting started on Monday in Kalusha after ex-Taliban
commander Mullah Nazir, who backs President Pervez Musharraf's
moves to expel foreigners from the area, ordered followers of
Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


Yuldashev, the head of a group called the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, was sentenced to death in absentia for bombings in
the Uzbek capital Tashkent.


Security officials say he had links to Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin
Laden.


At least 51 people were killed in the fighting, including four
students who were hit by a stray shell after their school bus
dropped them off near Kalusha, security officials said late
Tuesday.


Thirty-eight of Yuldashev's supporters were killed and 22 were
detained, the officials said, while nine local tribesmen
including some of Nazir's men also died and 64 others were
wounded.


The fighting ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after 19 people died in fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's
supporters and tribesmen in the nearby town of Azam Warsak.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.

