

India's prime minister vowed Wednesday to tackle electricity
theft on a "war footing" as the country battles a chronic power
shortage which he said threatens economic development.


The warning came just weeks before most of the country is set to
be hit by searing summer temperatures and regular power cuts as
people switch on air conditioners and fans, straining the
national grid.


"High transmission and distribution losses and theft of
electricity are unacceptable. These need to be tackled on a war
footing," Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in the national
capital.


Singh said the demand for power had outstripped supply, and that
shortages were a constraint on India's economic development and
people's livelihoods.


He called for the creation of a "broad national consensus" on
reforms in the distribution sector that he said were vital for
commercial viability and sustainability of the power sector.


"It is indeed regrettable that across the country, power shortage
in varying degrees still remains a constraint on development and
livelihoods," he said after handing out awards to power
utilities.


Even in wealthy states like Maharashtra, children were unable to
study during examination times because of power outages, he said.


"That's the measure of our gap. We must introspect, what is it
that has gone wrong," Singh said.


There are no definite estimates, but energy experts reckon that
between one third and one half of India's electricity supply is
stolen, leaving the country chronically short of power.


Electricity cuts are a regular event in India, especially during
its hot summers, as a result of load shedding when power
companies seek to juggle excessive demand with too little supply.


Energy experts say no other major country suffers power theft on
such a vast scale and that fast economic growth is increasing the
drain on available power supplies.


In the past decade power generation has increased at a compound
annual rate of around 5.5 percent, but demand has barrelled ahead
even faster than supply, by around 12 percent.


Power theft is rampant in slum areas, but middle-class households
also tamper with meters.


In New Delhi, up to 50 percent of power delivered is believed to
be pilfered.

