

With some of its biggest successes tearing down trade barriers
and forging a shared currency, the European Union has long
struggled to shake off criticism that it is just a "soulless
free-trade zone".


From the EU's beginnings as a coal and steel production club,
successive treaties have steadily tied Europe's economies closer
together and ushered in unprecedented prosperity.


EU leaders will gather in Berlin on Sunday to celebrate the 50th
anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, using the wealth built on the
cornerstone accord of today's EU to pay for their glitzy party.


The EU's economic power is in theory huge. The most important
decisions on international trade and antitrust issues are now
taken at EU level.


But the pinnacle of the EU's economic achievements has been to
introduce a shared currency in 13 member states with the rest --
except for opt-out cases Britain and Denmark -- required to
follow in the future.


"Economic and monetary union and the creation of the euro area --
a single economy with a single currency at the level of a
continent -- was, and still is, a formidable endeavour," European
Central Bank chief Jean-Claude Trichet said recently.


"Contradicting all those sceptical -- academics, media and other
observers -- who had anticipated a failure, EMU has been a great
success," he added.


Since Slovenia became the 13th member of the single currency club
on January 1, the euro is now in the pockets of 317 million
people, slightly more than the population of the United States.


Meanwhile, the young currency has gradually gained credibility
with investors and policy-makers.


After slumping to a low of 0.82 dollars in October 2000, it has
steadily risen to over 1.30 dollars currently while central
bankers are increasingly parking their nation's foreign reserves
in euros -- at the expense of the greenback.


But when the Maastricht treaty laying the foundation for the euro
was signed in 1993, European Commission president Jacques Delors
warned that "without a political initiative, Europe risks
becoming a soulless free-trade zone."


The EU's draft constitution was supposed to be an answer to such
criticism, giving the bloc a higher political profile with a
president and beefing up its powers in such crucial areas as
foreign policy.


However, the constitution's fate was cast into uncertainty after
French and Dutch voters rejected it in separate referenda in May
and June 2005, sparking one of the worst crises in the EU's
history.


Anti-constitution campaigners in France seized on the charter at
the time as a trojan horse for further market liberalisation that
could erode the country's social model.


Since then, the euro and the ECB have come under fire from the
left and right in the French presidential campaign with
candidates claiming the Frankfurt-based central bank is not
focused enough on jobs and growth.


Despite past successes in building a giant European goods, labour
and capital market, shortcomings remain.


Fears about protectionism within Europe have resurfaced over the
last year as France, Italy, Poland and Spain all sought to hinder
corporate takeovers from other EU member states.


Meanwhile, many of the EU's older nations are only gradually and
reluctantly doing away with restrictions on workers from the 12
mostly poor ex-communist states that have joined the bloc since
May 2004.


Fifty years after its creation, the EU single market is still
hindered by barriers and decision makers are worried they cannot
be torn down without sparking more public backlash.


"In the European Commission we are particularly concerned with
the political acceptability of further market opening," Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said recently.


"Unless an effort is made to increase the public acceptability of
market opening and liberalisation, it will be very difficult to
enact these reforms," he said.

