

One man was shot dead, another injured and several arrested in
Indonesia during a raid on suspected militants from an Al-Qaeda-
linked terror group blamed for bloody attacks, police said
Wednesday.


The arrested suspects were "believed to be part of Abu Dujana's
group," police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said, referring to the
man thought to be the acting leader of regional terror group
Jemaah Islamiyah (JI).


JI has been blamed for a string of attacks, including the 2002
bombings in Bali that killed 202 people. The United States says
the group aims to establish a pan-Islamic state in Southeast Asia
through violent jihad.


One suspect was shot dead and another received gunshot wounds
when the arrests were made on Tuesday night in Yogyakarta, some
450 kilometres (280 miles) southeast of the capital, Jakarta,
Adiwinoto said.


"Several other suspects have been taken to help hunt down
others," Adiwinoto said, adding on Indonesia's ElShinta radio
that the police anti-terror squad was still chasing suspects.


A source from the anti-terror police reportedly said four people
were arrested and that two had escaped.


Adiwinoto identified the dead man and the injured suspect by
their initials -- 39-year-old MAS and 40-year-old SP respectively
-- and said three motorcycles had been taken away from the site
of the confrontation as evidence.


The injured suspect was reportedly being treated at a local
hospital, while armed police guarded the building's exit and
entry points.


Reports also said the scene of Tuesday's raid, which took place
in a village in Yogyakarta, had been sealed off and teams were
combing the site for evidence.


Earlier reports had suggested Dujana, the JI leader, had been
detained in the operation, but anti-terror police chief,
Inspector General Bekto Suprapto, told AFP Dujana was not among
those arrested, killed or wounded.


Dujana is said to have been trained by militants in Afghanistan
and to be a close associate of the fugitive Noordin Mohammad Top,
Indonesia's most wanted man.


Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation, has
suffered a number of terror attacks blamed on JI and other
suspected Islamic militants it is trying to capture.


Apart from the 2002 Bali bombings, JI has also been accused of
roles in the August 2003 Marriott Hotel and September 2004
Australian embassy attacks in Jakarta, and the second Bali
bombings in October 2005.


Indonesian Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said earlier this
month that terrorists must be stopped, but that they had "been
evolving new strategies and tactics that have made them an even
greater threat to peace, security and progress."

