

US computer maker Dell Inc unveiled a low-cost computer Wednesday
which it said was specifically designed for the Chinese market
and could help large numbers of novices get online.


The Dell EC280, priced at between 2,599 and 3,999 yuan (335 and
515 dollars), was developed by engineers at Dell's China Design
Center located in Shanghai, the company told a briefing in the
east Chinese city.


"Today there are one billion people online worldwide and many of
the world's second billion users are right here in China," chief
executive Michael Dell said in statement. "We intend to earn
their confidence and their business."


Dell announced earlier this month a 33-percent dive in fourth-
quarter profits but it is ranked number three in computer
shipments in China and saw a 26-percent increase in revenues in
Asia's second-largest economy last year.


China's Internet is a rapidly expanding business, with 137
million Chinese estimated to be online as of the end of last
year, state media said previously.


Dell's product launch reflected a broader move by computer makers
to move from the nation's saturated cities into relative virgin
territory in the huge countryside, analysts said.


"The main market for this computer is in rural areas, where price
sensitivity is relatively high," said Cao Ran, an analyst with
CCID Consulting in Beijing.


But whether in the cities or in the countryside, the trend is
clearly for ever cheaper computers as there are few other ways
for companies to compete, she said.


"Overall, the quality of computers in China is pretty much the
same so the main strategy for gaining market share is through
pricing," she said.


Dell, the world's number-two computer maker behind Hewlett-
Packard, has manufacturing plants in China, Malaysia and India.
Western computer companies are looking to Asia to offset weaker
growth at home.


"This year, our purchase from supplier partnerships in Taiwan and
China will be 19 billion dollars," Dell told the briefing in
Shanghai.


"Dell's activities in China directly and indirectly supported 1.5
million jobs here to contribute more than 36 billion dollars to
annual GDP."


In an indication of the importance of the China market to Dell,
the company this week also opened a corporate blog in Chinese.


"About one fifth of the world's population speaks Chinese as
their first language," Michael Dell said in a separate statement.
"We will continue to have conversations in the language of choice
of our customers.

