

Two black labradors trained to sniff out DVDs and CDs have made
their first bust in Malaysia by helping to find pirated discs
worth millions of dollars, industry officials said Wednesday.


Lucky and Flo, born and trained in Northern Ireland, found the
discs Tuesday in a car and at an office tower in Johor Baru, the
capital of Johor state neighbouring Singapore, where pirated
discs are easily available.


"The discs were mostly movies and computer games. There was also
some porn and some music," said Neil Gane, senior operations
director for the Asia-Pacific with the Los Angeles-based Motion
Picture Association (MPA).


"There were the latest Oscar-nominated films, from 'Blood
Diamond' to 'Babel'," Gane told AFP.


The MPA, which conducts piracy investigations for major motion
picture companies, brought the two crimefighting canines to
Malaysia earlier this month for a one-month trial to help fight
the scourge of piracy.


Gane said Malaysia was the first country in the world to use the
dogs to detect fake discs.


Lucky and Flo cannot distinguish between CDs and DVDs, or
legitimate and pirate discs, but they are trained to detect
polycarbonate and other chemicals used in optical discs.


"When they find the polycarbonate they are taught to either
freeze or to sit," said Gane.


Malaysian officials had the building under surveillance and had
information it was being used as a warehouse for fake discs, as
well as a duplicating centre, Gane said.


The dogs helped sniff out offices within the building as well as
hidden compartments where some one million fake discs, all
thought to be produced by one syndicate, were being stored.


"The dogs smelled polycarbonate from under the doors ... Inside
all the doors the dogs identified were substantial quantities of
pirated optical discs," he said.


Reports Wednesday said the discs had a street value of about 10
million ringgit (2.88 million dollars).


Gane said Lucky and Flo were taking a well-deserved rest
Wednesday in a secure location at Kuala Lumpur's international
airport.


"Obviously we have to be very wary of not only their wellbeing,
but the security of the dogs," he said.


"They've cost one crime syndicate damages ... They're not the
most popular dogs in some parts of (Johor Bahru) today," he said.

