

US President George W. Bush vowed to resist any attempt by
Congress to force top aides to testify under oath about a row
over fired prosecutors, warning against a "partisan fishing
expedition."


In his boldest language since Democrats won control of Congress
in November, Bush accused his opponents Tuesday of using the
escalating showdown to "score political points" and refused to
back down.


Faced with a fierce new partisan fight as he tries to breathe
life into a second-term administration hobbled by the unpopular
Iraq war, Bush warned: "we will not go along with a partisan
fishing expedition."


Earlier, the president personally endorsed Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales, who is facing calls for his ouster over the
dismissal of eight prosecutors which critics claim was
politically motivated.


The White House also branded as "completely false" reports that
it was already scouting for a replacement for Gonzales, a trusted
member of Bush's Texas inner circle.


Throwing down the gauntlet to his Democratic foes demanding his
aides testify, Bush said: "I will oppose any attempts to subpoena
White House officials."


The administration earlier agreed to let key figures in the
drama, including Bush's top political advisor Karl Rove, meet
congressional investigators -- but not to testify under oath.


Democratic lawmakers promptly rejected Bush's offer, setting the
stage for a possible confrontation.


"Testimony should be on the record, under oath," said Patrick
Leahy, chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.


The Vermont senator said subpoenas for White House officials
would "probably" be issued Thursday. "All we want is the truth,"
he told CNN.


Bush, whose fellow Republicans have been critical of Gonzales,
did however admit the episode had been poorly handled following
sometimes contradictory explanations of the prosecutor firings,
though he noted it was within his power to dismiss federal
prosecutors.


The Senate moved to ensure it would have a say in filling US
Attorney vacancies, with members of both parties voting 94-2 for
legislation requiring that replacements be subject to
confirmation by lawmakers.


"This bill will go a long way toward restoring the independence
of federal prosecutors," said Democratic Senator Ken Salazar.


Bush offered to send Gonzales and his staff to testify before
Congress and said the administration had turned over 3,000 pages
of documents in a bid to shed light on the reasons the US
attorneys were fired.


Bush raised the issue of executive privilege, the convention
which is supposed to safeguard a president's capacity to receive
candid counsel from advisors, saying aides should not fear being
hauled before investigations.


But Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer refused to accept the White
House reasoning.


"What is the objection to an oath? If there's nothing to hide and
everyone is telling the truth, there should be no objection.


"What is the objection to having this discussion in public?"
Schumer said on the Senate floor.


Having been forced to remove defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld
after the Republicans were routed in November legislative
elections, the White House is desperate not to hand Democrats the
scalp of another key administration figure.


Gonzales has also come under fire over an internal probe that
found that the Federal Bureau of Investigation, part of his
department, breached privacy laws in overzealously seeking access
to information about terror suspects.


The dispute over the prosecutors broke last week when some of the
attorneys told Congress they were fired because they resisted
pressure from Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases.


While the White House and Justice Department have the right to
appoint and remove the 93 US attorneys -- who investigate and
prosecute court cases for the government -- replacements are
usually only carried out at the beginning of a president's
administration.


The controversy at the Justice Department is yet another blow to
Bush, who has sunk to his lowest level in opinion polls.


In recent weeks the administration has been fending off scandals
over the care of wounded soldiers returning from Iraq and
Afghanistan, the conviction of a former White House aide for
perjury and the prosecutors affair.

