

The head of French oil group Total, Christophe de Margerie, faced
police questioning on Wednesday over suspected illegal payments
to win a gas contract in Iran, a source close to the matter said.


Margerie would be questioned over suspected corruption in Iran
and Cameroon, the source said.


Total was being probed over suspicions of corruption to win a gas
contract in 1997 with the Iranian national oil company NIOC to
operate a gas field called South Pars.


The investigation was being conducted by the police finance
squad, the source said, after a report that Margerie was to be
questioned had appeared in the French regional newspaper Est
Republicain.


The probe had begun in December under investigating magistrates
Philippe Courroye and Xaviere Simeoni, and the police were acting
on orders from Courroye, the source said.


It was alleged that funds identified in Switzerland might have
been paid illegally by executives of Total from 1996 to 2003 to
win the gas contract in Iran.


The newspaper had also reported that Margerie would be questioned
in connection with an enquiry begun on January 8 into suspected
"corruption of foreign agents" relating to the production and
marketing of oil from Cameroon.


The two enquiries resulted from information provided in November
2006 by a unit at the economy and finance ministry charged with
fighting money laundering, called Tracfin.


The newspaper also reported that several other senior executives
at Total had been called for questioning. It named them as
finance director Robert Castaigne, personnel director Jean-
Jacques Guilbaud, the head of gas operations Philippe Boisseau
and the head of a trading offshoot Patrick Rambeau.


Since 2002, Total and some of its executives have been targeted
by Courroye in an investigation into alleged misuse of company
assets. This enquiry is looking into whether Total misused funds
to obtain markets abroad, and particularly in Iraq.


The probe, which has been extended to include suspected
"corruption", led Courroye to uncover evidence in 2005 that
French interests might have received commissions for breaching a
UN embargo against Iraqi oil from 1996 to 2003, in what has
become a French "oil for food" case.

