

Tribesmen loyal to the Pakistani government fought fierce battles
with foreign Al-Qaeda militants for a third day Wednesday,
leaving more than 100 people dead, officials said.


Pakistani troops also shelled the Uzbek militants sheltering in
the mountainous tribal area of South Waziristan, security
officials and residents said, although a military spokesman
denied the army was involved.


The fighting started Monday after ex-Taliban commander Mullah
Nazir, who backs President Pervez Musharraf's moves to expel
foreign fighters from the area, ordered followers of Uzbek
militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


Officials said Yuldashev, who leads a group called the Islamic
Movement of Uzbekistan, was formerly a close confidant of Osama
bin Laden. He has been sentenced to death in absentia for
bombings in the Uzbek capital, Tashkent.


"At least 78 Uzbeks and their local supporters and 28 supporters
of Mullah Nazir have died, including four children killed by a
shell," a security official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


More than half of the fatalities have occurred since Tuesday
night, when Nazir gave the Uzbeks a deadline to leave Kalusha,
the town where the violence has been centered.


Residents and a senior security official said troops launched
shells at foreign militants early Wednesday after the insurgents
fired on their camp in Wana, the capital of South Waziristan.


But Pakistani military spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad said
that "government forces are not involved in the tribal feud."


Meanwhile, local Taliban militants allied with the tribesmen
attacked and seized control of a private jail being run by Uzbek
militants in Azam Warsak, near Kalusha, the officials said.


The local militants freed three local tribesmen and one Afghan
who were chained up, they said. An amount of explosives stored at
the jail also exploded, causing an unknown number of casualties.


A tribal council, or jirga, led by a mullah from a leading pro-
Taliban Islamic party had left for Wana in a bid to negotiate a
truce, officials said.


The fighting ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after 19 people died in fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's
supporters and tribesmen in Azam Warsak.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.


Yuldashev was wounded during major battles with Pakistani forces
in Azam Warsak in March 2004. At one point officials thought Al-
Qaeda number two Ayman al- Zawahiri was involved, but this was
later denied.

