

Malaysian officials vowed Wednesday to meet an end-March deadline
to choose a strategic partner for ailing carmaker Proton but said
they were still mulling both local and foreign players, including
Germany's Volkswagen AG.


Azman Mokhtar, Managing Director of the government's investment
arm, Khazanah Nasional, said talks are still ongoing with
Volkswagen and US auto giant General Motors, as well as Malaysian
firms.


"The process is still going on. To be fair, we are looking at
all, including local players," Azman told reporters on the
sidelines of an investment conference here.


"At this stage we are looking at all possibilities," he added.


The Malaysian government owns 59 percent of Proton, including a
43 percent stake held by Khazanah.


The government is under intense pressure to choose a strategic
partner for loss- making Proton, which has seen a sharp decline
in sales due to increased competition from local and imported
autos.


Volkswagen this week reportedly said it was close to taking over
Proton's manufacturing unit.


General Motors has also been in talks with Proton, while three
Malaysian automotive firms have expressed interest in taking a
stake in the company.


Azman said officials would keep to a deadline of March 31 to
choose a partner, a crucial decision for the carmaker which last
month posted its third consecutive quarter of losses.


"The deadline has been set by the prime minister," he said. "We
have stated that an alliance strategy is key."


Proton's market share has fallen sharply in recent years due to
the whittling away of duties that has made imports more
affordable coupled with a persistent reputation for poor quality
and unimaginative models.


The firm was set up in 1983 in a move spearheaded by former
premier Mahathir Mohamad as part of Malaysia's drive into heavy
industry.


While analysts say foreign know-how is vital to keeping the
embattled carmaker afloat, the government has been reluctant to
cede control of the national company to foreign hands.

