

Flags were flying at half-mast Wednesday across Russia as a
search was on for three miners still missing after a gas
explosion claimed 107 lives in Russia's worst mining disaster
since the Soviet era.


President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday decreed a national day of
mourning for Wednesday in memory of at least 175 people killed
over the last four days in three separate disasters, also
including a deadly fire and a plane crash.


A spokesman for the emergency situations ministry told AFP that
the bodies of 107 people had been recovered, while another 93
miners who were underground when the explosion occurred had been
rescued.


"We're hoping to find more people alive," Russian Emergency
Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu, who was dispatched by Putin to
oversee rescue operations, told reporters at the site late
Tuesday.


However, early Wednesday he admitted that the search could take
up to three days more, the Interfax news agency reported.


At the Ulyanovskaya mine, located about 3,000 kilometers (1,850
miles) east of Moscow, hopes of finding miners still alive were
low.


"The search is very difficult," said Sergei Cheremnov, a
spokesman for the governor of the region of Kemerovo, Russia's
coal industry heartland where the mine is located, explaining
that "there is bad ventilation, there is flooding and there was a
lot of destruction."


Officials said that rescuers were working underground by hand and
that divers were also being pressed into service in flooded
sections of the mine.


Gennady Melnikov, a representative of the local branch of the
emergency situations ministry, said rescuers working through the
night had encountered scenes of carnage underground.


"A lot of people died and when we brought them up, they were all
dismembered," said Melnikov, who looked exhausted as he stood
drinking tea at an improvised encampment of emergency workers by
the mine shaft.


Search and rescue operations were being conducted under tight
security. About 30 OMON riot police backed by regular local
police were posted around the facility.


In the mining town of Novkuznetsk, which has a population of some
600,000 people, families watched in tears as ambulances delivered
loads of black body bags to a morgue .


Putin ordered Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov to lead an
investigation into the tragedy, as well as into the deaths
overnight Tuesday of 62 people at a retirement home in southern
Russia and an air crash on Saturday that killed seven.


Prosecutors opened a criminal inquiry into violation of safety
rules at Ulyanovskaya, which is operated by the firm
Yuzhkuzbassugol that owns a dozen other mines in the region.


However the mine was said by officials to be equipped with some
of the most modern safety equipment available and was a showpiece
for an initial public stock offering (IPO) planned for this year.


Yuzhkuzbassugol is a subsidiary of Russian metals giant Evraz.


The explosion occurred as the bulk of the mine's management was
underground accompanying a visiting British auditor reported to
be inspecting the facility in connection with the planned IPO.


The Ulyanovskaya mine, which was opened five years ago, is
located on a hill surrounded by a pine forest in a landscape
dotted with chimneystacks and conveyor belts.


The accident is the worst to hit Russia since the 1991 collapse
of the Soviet Union.


On December 2, 1997, 67 miners were killed, also as the result of
a methane gas explosion, in a mine in the same region. Five weeks
after that incident, 27 miners died in a mine explosion in
Vorkuta in northern Russia.


Local authorities said each victim's family would receive
compensation totalling one million rubles (around 37,000
dollars).

