

The death of Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer at the World Cup
is being treated as murder, a Pakistan team spokesman said
Wednesday.


"The police suspect that Woolmer may have been murdered. They
have started an investigation," Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB)
spokesman Pervez Mir told AFP.


Mark Shields, the deputy chief commissioner of the Jamaican
police force, confirmed that the death was being treated as
suspicious.


"The post-mortem into the death of Mr Woolmer was inconclusive,"
he said.


"But having met with the pathologists and other medical
personnel, there is sufficient information to continue a full
investigation into the circumstances of Mr Woolmer's death which
is now being treated as suspicious."


Woolmer, 58, died in hospital on Sunday after being found
unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston.


His death came a day after Pakistan, the former world champions,
had been knocked out of the World Cup by Ireland's part-timers.


"We have informed the Woolmer family of developments and the
International Cricket Council (ICC), the World Cup officials and
all other relevant bodies have been informed of the
investigation," added Shields.


Earlier Tuesday, police had said that the autopsy into the death
of Woolmer had proven inconclusive and that further tests would
be carried out. These tests would include toxicology and
histology (the study of tissue) analysis.


The opening of a criminal investigation into the death of one of
the game's most respected coaches comes after a frenzied two days
which have sparked numerous theories surrounding his death.


Mir denied that the World Cup team had been ordered to stay in
Jamaica until the investigation was completed and added the
various rumours over the causes of the death had upset the
players.


The Pakistan team was expected to leave for home on Thursday
after their final group game against Zimbabwe on Wednesday.


Woolmer's coffin had been expected to be on the same flight to
London from where it would be transported to South Africa where
he lived with his wife Gill.


On Monday, Gill Woolmer had revealed the pressures placed on her
husband as coach of cricket-mad Pakistan.


"His job coaching there has been incredibly stressful," she said.


Woolmer had endured a tense build-up to the World Cup.


Last August, Pakistan were embroiled in a ball-tampering row
against England at The Oval in London which led to the first
forfeiture of a Test match in the sport's history.


He then saw his two best fast bowlers Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad
Asif fail drugs tests. They later had their bans overturned on
appeal but were ruled out of the World Cup on fitness grounds.


Reports on Monday also claimed that the former England batsman
suffered from diabetes and had recently experienced breathing
difficulties.


Pakistan were scheduled to play their final game of the World Cup
against Zimbabwe at Sabina Park here on Wednesday.


Former Pakistan international leg-spinner Mushtaq Ahmed, who was
due to take charge of the team for that game, admitted that the
squad were having a hard time coming to terms with the tragedy.


Mushtaq said: "There is a great vacuum because Bob was a part of
the family.


"When you lose a member of the family, we all know how bad it can
be. The whole team is depressed right now. The boys - and even me
- have been totally depressed."


"It's a very difficult time, and all we can do is try. We are
trying to overcome the emotions. We are making an effort. We are
a professional side, and we will give of our best, but it will
not be easy."


Mushtaq described the death of Woolmer as "the biggest blow that
has befallen the Pakistan team".


"I have been going around to the different rooms, talking to the
boys, and trying to get them out, and lift their spirits because
they were far too low," he said.


"We have lost a father figure to all of us and we'll give our
best shot in Wednesday's match.


"You are talking about someone dying. It's a tremendous shock and
it's very difficult to recover. I myself can't do it, but life
must go on."


The island of Jamaica is a notorious hotbed of crime and has the
seventh highest murder rate in the world.


Local newspapers are dominated on a daily basis by stories of
gang and gun battles which last week saw a brother and sister,
aged 15 and six, gunned down in what was described as an
'execution-style' killing.


The gruesome murders of Tavia and Tajax Smith, both shot in the
head, were typical of an island which last year saw 65 children
murdered.


"It is a shame that such callous disregard for the lives of
children is being displayed in the midst of hosting the cricket
World Cup," said Jamaican Labour Party politician Derrick Smith.

