

Heather Mills, the estranged wife of former Beatle Paul
McCartney, said Tuesday the two were still friends and blamed his
lawyers for their acrimonious divorce proceedings.


Mills, appearing on a prime-time US television interview show,
was asked about the break-up of her marriage which has proved
particularly juicy fodder for the British tabloids.


Asked by CNN's Larry King about her relationship now with the ex-
Beatle, Mills replied: "We still have a friendship. It's only his
lawyers that are a nightmare."


If they had been left to their own devices, "things would have
been alright a long time ago," she said.


Mills, who lost her left leg in a 1993 traffic accident, was
interviewed a day after she competed in the American television
show "Dancing with the Stars."


Based on Britain's "Strictly Come Dancing," which teams
celebrities with professional dancers in a competition, the
American version began a new season Monday night.


Mills and her professional dance partner, Jonathan Roberts,
danced to Ella Fitzgerald's interpretation of Irving Berlin's
"Cheek to Cheek."


Dressed in a long yellow gown trimmed in spangled hot pink and
wearing an artificial limb, Mills twirled in high-heeled dance
shoes and even gave a high kick in the finale.


The couple earned a score of 18 from the three judges, putting
them in the middle of the pack of contestants.


The former model, 39, and 64-year-old McCartney announced the end
of their four- year marriage in May. Mills is fighting for a
share of McCartney's multi-million pound fortune over the split.
The couple have a three-year-old daughter, Beatrice.


Mills confirmed reports she had received flowers for the occasion
from McCartney, adding they came with a card that read: "Dear
Mummy, love Daddy and Beatrice."


She said the divorce process has been "really, really hard." "Now
I'm great," she said.


She declined to comment on her estranged husband, noting that he
was the father of their child. "I still love him," she said.
"He's a great father."


Mills declined to reveal how much money she would earn from the
TV show, but said it would all go to charity.


"What I was hoping to do was not only try and encourage amputees
to get up and dance but to try to encourage people with two left
feet or any kind of inhibition."

