

Thousands of lawyers and Islamists called on President Pervez
Musharraf to quit Wednesday as fresh protests erupted over his
removal of Pakistan's top judge, witnesses and officials said.


The nationwide demonstrations came as the charges against Chief
Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry were revealed for the first
time, alleging that he strong- armed a series of promotions for
his son.


Military ruler Musharraf, a key US ally in the "war on terror",
has faced the biggest crisis of his eight years in power since
ordering the suspension of Chaudhry on March 9.


In Islamabad around 600 people including lawyers, political party
workers, women and students rallied outside the Supreme Court
building after breaking their way through police cordons.


They were later joined by some 300 flag-waving supporters of
hardline Islamic parties chanting "Allahu Akhbar" (God is
Greatest). Other slogans included "Musharraf is a uniformed pet
dog of US."


The former head of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency,
Hamid Gul joined the protest in his military jacket. "I wore this
jacket today because we are fighting the war of Pakistan's
survival," Gul said.


Former cricket great-turned-politician Imran Khan said that the
demonstrators showed "immense courage" by breaking the police
lines.


Carrying black banners and chanting "Go Musharraf, go" around
3,000 lawyers in the eastern city of Lahore removed barricades
erected by police to block a main road.


They later staged a sit-in outside the provincial assembly
building to press their demand for Chaudhry's reinstatement.


Police fired tear gas shells and baton-charged a group of around
100 lawyers in the southwestern city of Quetta who wanted to
stage a protest in front of the provincial governor's residence,
lawyers and witnesses said.


Some burnt their black jackets in protest.


Musharraf's removal of Chaudhry has sparked a series of violent
protests and strikes over the past two weeks, as well as the
resignation of eight judges and a deputy attorney general.


The list of charges that has been lodged against Chaudhry with
Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council appeared in newspapers on
Wednesday. State media had previously only said he was charged
with misconduct and abuse of office.


According to the allegations, Chaudhry's son was promoted rapidly
through the health department of southwestern Baluchistan
province despite not having passed a basic college exam.


They claim he was transferred to the Federal Investigation Agency
where he again landed a series of increasingly senior jobs.


Chaudhry then allegedly pushed officials for his son to be given
a position with the police in Punjab province and arranged for
him to waive some of the training.


The charges also claim Chaudhry has the use of seven official
cars when he is only meant to have one; that he orders traffic to
be stopped for his convoy; and that he demands use of aircraft
assigned to senior government officials.


Chaudhry's lawyers on Wednesday denied the charges and also
rejected a claim by a law ministry official that they had leaked
the list of allegations to the newspapers.


Musharraf, who seized power in a 1999 military coup, said in a
television interview Monday that his actions were constitutional
and that he would not impose a state of emergency over the row.

