

International aid agency Oxfam on Wednesday accused a US
drugmaker of abandoning Thailand's sick and trying to intimidate
the government over its decision to break a patent on a key AIDS
drug.


The Britain-based charity called on Abbott Laboratories to
reconsider its move last week to stop marketing new drugs here in
protest at the government's decision to override the patent on
Abbott's AIDS drug Kaletra.


"Patients must be the primary concern for both pharmaceutical
companies and governments," Yowalak Thiarachow, head of Oxfam in
Thailand, said in a statement.


"Abbott is playing a nasty game to intimidate the government of
Thailand for taking actions to lower the costs of medicines for
Thai people."


The Thai government recently shocked pharmaceutical companies by
issuing so- called "compulsory licences" for three drugs, an
action that temporarily suspends a patent and allows cheaper,
generic versions into the market.


Although controversial, issuing such licences is permitted by the
World Trade Organisation to protect public health in an
emergency.


Few countries have used this provision, but Thailand has since
November issued licences for two anti-AIDS drugs -- Efavirenz and
Kaletra -- and popular heart disease medicine Plavix


Chicago-based Abbott last week announced that it would not bring
seven new drugs to Thailand in protest, including a new version
of Kaletra as well as cutting- edge antibiotics and painkillers.


Oxfam said the move denied Thai people access to treatment for
heart disease, kidney failure, blood pressure, and HIV/AIDS.


"It is outrageous that Abbott and other companies seem prepared
to gamble with people's lives over disputes over profits,"
Yowalak said.


"We call on Abbott Laboratories to seek a reasonable solution,
rather than abandoning sick people in Thailand," she added.


Thailand says it needs generic drugs to make treatment affordable
to the public. The health minister told AFP last week that about
500,000 Thais are infected with HIV, but fewer than 10 percent
can afford to buy Kaletra.

