

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer may have been murdered at the
World Cup, a team official said Tuesday, as police in Jamaica
confirmed they were treating the death as suspicious.


The suggestion is the latest twist in a shocking series of events
that have doomed the team's appearance at the tournament, where
they were bundled out by part-timers Ireland the day before
Woolmer died.


"The post-mortem into the death of Mr Woolmer was inconclusive,"
said Mark Shields, the deputy chief commissioner of the Jamaican
police force.


"But having met with the pathologists and other medical
personnel, there is sufficient information to continue a full
investigation into the circumstances of Mr Woolmer's death, which
is now being treated as suspicious," he said.


"The International Cricket Council, the World Cup officials and
all other relevant bodies have been informed of the
investigation."


Pakistan Cricket Board spokesman Pervez Mir said investigators
were looking at the possibility of foul play.


"The police suspect that Woolmer may have been murdered," Mir
told AFP.


He denied that the World Cup team had been ordered to stay in
Jamaica until the investigation was completed and added that
various rumours over the cause of the death had upset players.


Woolmer, 58, died in hospital on Sunday after being found
unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston.


"We really need to know what is behind it. I think they have to
get to the bottom," former Pakistan captain and legendary all-
rounder Imran Khan told AFP after the latest news.


"This just adds to the whole tragedy and especially for Bob's
family," he said. "I still assume he died of natural causes
because he was a diabetic and that is closely associated with
heart attacks."


The Pakistan team was expected to leave for home on Thursday
after their final group game against Zimbabwe later on Wednesday.


Former Pakistan international leg-spinner Mushtaq Ahmed, due to
take charge of the team for that game, admitted the squad was
having a hard time coming to terms with the tragedy.


"There is a great vacuum because Bob was a part of the family,"
he said.


"When you lose a member of the family, we all know how bad it can
be. The whole team is depressed right now. The boys -- and even
me -- have been totally depressed."


Woolmer's coffin had been expected to be on the same flight as
the team to London, from where it would be transported to South
Africa, where he lived with his wife Gill.


On Monday, Gill Woolmer had revealed the pressures placed on her
husband as coach of cricket-mad Pakistan.


"His job coaching there has been incredibly stressful," she said.


Woolmer had endured a tense build-up to the World Cup.


Last August, Pakistan were embroiled in a ball-tampering row
against England at The Oval in London which led to the first
forfeiture of a Test match in the sport's history.


He then saw his two best fast bowlers Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad
Asif fail drugs tests. They later had their bans overturned on
appeal but were ruled out of the World Cup on fitness grounds.

