

The death of Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer at the World Cup
is being treated as murder, a Pakistan team spokesman said
Wednesday.


"The police suspect that Woolmer may have been murdered. They
have started an investigation," Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB)
spokesman Pervez Mir told AFP.


Mark Shields, the deputy chief constable of the Jamaican police
force, confirmed that the death was being treated as suspicious.


"The post-mortem into the death of Mr Woolmer was inconclusive,"
he said.


"But having met with the pathologists and other medical
personnel, there is sufficient information to continue a full
investigation into the circumstances of Mr Woolmer's death which
is now being treated as suspicious."


Woolmer, 58, died in hospital on Sunday after being found
unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston.


His death came a day after Pakistan, the former world champions,
had been knocked out of the World Cup by Ireland's part-timers.


"We have informed the Woolmer family of developments and the
International Cricket Council (ICC), the World Cup officials and
all other relevant bodies have been informed of the
investigation," added Shields.


Earlier Tuesday, police had said that the autopsy into the death
of Woolmer had proven inconclusive and that further tests would
be carried out.


These tests would include toxicology and histology (the study of
tissue) analysis.


Pakistan were scheduled to play their final game of the
tournament against Zimbabwe at Sabina Park here on Wednesday.


Former Pakistan international leg-spinner Mushtaq Ahmed, who was
due to take charge of the team for that game, admitted that the
squad were having a hard time coming to terms with the tragedy.


Mushtaq said: "There is a great vacuum because Bob was a part of
the family.


"When you lose a member of the family, we all know how bad it can
be. The whole team is depressed right now. The boys - and even me
- have been totally depressed."


"It's a very difficult time, and all we can do is try. We are
trying to overcome the emotions. We are making an effort. We are
a professional side, and we will give of our best, but it will
not be easy."


Mushtaq described the death of Woolmer as "the biggest blow that
has befallen the Pakistan team".


"I have been going around to the different rooms, talking to the
boys, and trying to get them out, and lift their spirits because
they were far too low," he said.


"We have lost a father figure to all of us and we'll give our
best shot in Wednesday's match.


"We are talking about someone losing their life. Though I have
tried to lighten the mood and cheer the boys up, I myself am
feeling very low.


"You are talking about someone dying. It's a tremendous shock and
it's very difficult to recover. I myself can't do it, but life
must go on."

