

The chief US envoy to North Korean nuclear talks hit out in
frustration Wednesday at the stalling tactics that have soured
hopes for quick progress on dismantling its atomic weapons
programme.


North Korea refused on Tuesday and Wednesday to participate in
six-nation talks underway in Beijing until 25 million dollars of
its money that had been frozen in a Macau bank were safely
returned.


The United States announced on Monday that the money, frozen
since 2005 due to accusations of North Korean money laundering
and counterfeiting, would be released as part of a deal to push
forward the disarmament process.


However, US envoy Christopher Hill said Wednesday that the Macau
financial authorities had not yet been able to transfer the money
to a North Korean bank account in Beijing, although it was
expected to happen soon.


"We all have jobs to do. Waiting around for some forms to be
filled out is not usually in our job descriptions," Hill told
reporters after having lunch with the South Korean envoy.


"You cannot expect these large delegations to sit around while it
is being sorted out."


Although authorities in Macau said this week the cash would be
transferred, no one involved in the process has said exactly
when.


Hill said the longer-term aspects of this week's talks now looked
to be off the table.


"Right now it looks like we are not going to be able to make
progress on the denuclearisation issue," he said.


He said he would meet with the Chinese delegate later Wednesday,
and that China would subsequently host a round-table meeting of
delegates from all six nations -- China, the United States, the
two Koreas, Japan and Russia.


"I hope we will find out whether they have made any progress on
the banking issue," he said.


North Korea, which conducted its first atomic weapons test in
October last year, agreed in the February 13 deal to shut down
its key nuclear reactor at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow
International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors back into the
country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use.


This week's round of six-nation talks was meant to consolidate
the initial terms of the deal, then look forward to a longer-term
road map for complete North Korean disarmament.

