

Australia's major newspaper groups have warned Canberra they will
not cover overseas ministerial trips following this month's
Yogyakarta plane crash unless reporters can fly on official
aircraft.


A number of journalists covering Foreign Minister Alexander
Downer's visit to Indonesia were aboard Garuda Airlines Boeing
737 when it overshot the runway and burst into flames at
Yogyakarta airport on March 7, killing 21 people.


The Australian Financial Review's Jakarta-based correspondent
Morgan Mellish was among five Australians killed and Sydney
Morning Herald reporter Cynthia Banham barely survived and has
had a leg amputated.


They were forced to board commercial flights because there was no
room for them aboard Downer's official aircraft, part of a
government VIP fleet which was downgraded with smaller aircraft
in 2002.


Fairfax Media, which employed Mellish and Banham, joined
Australia's largest newspaper publisher News Limited in sending a
letter to Prime Minister John Howard this week calling for an
upgraded VIP fleet with room for reporters.


"Australian journalists, and the editors to whom they report,
take unacceptable risks when correspondents are forced to fly
commercial aircraft to cover official trips overseas because
there is insufficient space on government aircraft to accommodate
them," the letter said.


"While this is of special concern in countries with inadequate
air safety, there are other issues. Even in the most developed
countries, reliance on commercial aircraft to follow official
aircraft on tight travel schedules can make it difficult, at
times impossible, to cover official events."


The newspaper groups urged the government to approve the purchase
of new aircraft in the May federal budget.


"Unfortunately, in the interim, our editors and bureau chiefs
cannot send correspondents on commercial aircraft to cover
official government business if insufficient seats are available
on the official aircraft."


The ban could have a significant impact on coverage of government
activities in the lead-up to national elections due to be held by
the end of the year.


In countries such as the United States and Britain, journalists
travelling with the president or prime minister are routinely
accommodated on official aircraft.

