

Australia's Qantas would be dangerously "destabilised" and its
share price hit if an 8.8 billion US dollar private equity
takeover bid was blocked, the airline's chairwoman warned
Wednesday.


Margaret Jackson told the Australian Financial Review in an
interview that if the bid did not proceed, the 40 percent of
shares held by hedge funds would be dumped on the market.


"If anyone thinks this will happen without affecting the (share)
price then they have a mental problem with how the market works,"
Jackson said.


"Some 60 percent of the share register is now not aligned with
the long-term interests of the company and this is very
destabilising when you consider it is facing a 13 billion (10.4
billion US dollar) capital expenditure bill and increased
competition from Tiger and Virgin."


The Qantas board has unanimously backed the takeover bid from the
Macquarie Bank-led private equity consortium of Airline Partners
Australia (APA) which has offered investors 5.45 dollars a share.


But key shareholders UBS Global Funds Management and Balanced
Equity Management, who between them hold just under 10 percent of
Qantas' issued capital, have indicated the price is too low.


Both funds have reportedly rebuffed offers from hedge funds to
buy their stakes, raising the possibility that the APA consortium
will not gain sufficient stock to meet its 90 percent minimum
acceptance condition.


While the two funds do not quite have sufficient shares to block
the offer, other shareholders could join with them in opposing
the bid, including Qantas staff who fear job losses if the APA
consortium wins control.


In separate comments to the Australian newspaper, Jackson
criticised the institutions for holding out, saying they had
never previously recognised the airline's intrinsic value during
her seven-year tenure.


"It seem mysterious to me that after seven years these
institutions see more value in Qantas, whereas in the past seven
years, they haven't been able to see that," she said.


Analysts have upgraded their expectations for Qantas since the
takeover bid was launched late last year and the airline itself
expects this year's annual net profit to be up to 40 percent
higher than the previous year.


Jackson defended chief executive Geoff Dixon against charges he
and other management had played an early role in the bid, the
Financial Review reported.


Leading Qantas executives, including Dixon, will share in a 68
million dollar payout of their existing contracts if the buy-out
proceeds.


"I find such comments offensive," Jackson said. "I believe Geoff
and trust him when he phoned me the first time saying he had just
received an offer.


"The board was kept informed from the very beginning and the
right protocols were put in place to handle the bid."


She that if the bid failed, "Geoff Dixon and I will be as
committed as we always have been to doing the right thing by
Qantas."


The Australian Shareholders Association (ASA) expressed surprise
at Jackson's forthright comments on the company's share price but
said she had the right to express her view.


"The language she has used is unprecedented but she can express
herself as forcefully as she likes," ASA chief executive Stuart
Wilson told AFP.


At the same time, Wilson said pro-takeover comments from senior
Qantas executives should be disregarded by shareholders, who
needed to bear in mind rather the benefits they would receive if
the deal went ahead.


Qantas shares closed up slightly, rising one cent to 5.15 dollars
in a market that was down overall.

