

Iraqi Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi will arrive in Tokyo on
Wednesday night for talks on reconstruction of the war-torn
nation, officials said.


Hashimi will meet with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on
Thursday and a few other political leaders during his stay here,
a Japanese foreign ministerial official said.


"Iraq's stability is inevitably in Japan's national interest, as
our nation imports about 90 percent of its crude oil from the
Middle East," the official said.


"Iraq boasts the world's third-largest crude oil reserve. It's
important for Japan to build a long-term strategic partnership
with Iraq," he said.


Following Hashimi's visit, 15 Iraqi parliamentarians are slated
to visit Japan for a week from Sunday.


"In order to improve the situation in Iraq, it is essential for
Iraq to make efforts in promoting national reconciliation," the
Japanese foreign ministry said in a statement.


The ministry said it would encourage Vice President Hashimi and
the visiting parliamentarians to further their support for
promoting national reconciliation in Iraq.


Local media here reported Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
would visit Japan next month. The foreign ministry official
confirmed Japan had invited the Iraqi leader but said "no
concrete schedule is decided yet."


Japan plans to extend its air support mission to Iraq for another
two years, Abe said Tuesday, on the fourth anniversary of the US-
led invasion.


Japan last year ended its historic deployment of troops on a
reconstruction mission to Iraq, but continues to provide
logistical air support to the US-led coalition and the United
Nations.


Japan's deployment of 600 troops to Iraq marked the first time
since World War II that Tokyo had sent soldiers to a war zone.


Tokyo continues to station some 210 air force personnel in Kuwait
to fly people and supplies into Iraq.


It has offered Baghdad about five billion dollars worth of
development aid programmes and about six billion dollars worth of
debt relief since the war began.

