

Australian head coach Alan Thompson said Wednesday he had no
inkling of any performance-enhancing doping in swimming but
acknowledged that recreational drugs would always be a worry.


Thompson's remarks came after German coach Orjan Madsen took the
extraordinary step of making a statement that his team was drug
free in a bid to end suspicion surrounding the country's record-
breaking women swimmers.


The previously-unheralded German women, led by Britta Steffen,
raised eyebrows last year when they broke three world records at
the European championships in Budapest.


"It is unfortunate that in any sport when there is a good time or
a good performance the first thought has to go towards that there
may be something irrational about it," Thompson told a press
conference.


"I think there are some great performances in our sport and it's
unfortunate that people have to defend themselves."


He said he had confidence that the doping regime of world
governing body FINA was enough to root out any drug cheats and
pointed out that the Australian team was one of the most tested
in the world.


"From our point of view in Australia we are tested at least as
much, if not more, than anyone else in the world," he said.


"So I'm very confident in the testing regime that FINA have in
place and very confident in the way WADA (World Anti-Doping
Authority) and ASADA (Australian Sport Anti-Doping Authority) do
their work.


"If that is the way they do it around the world then I will
continue to have my confidence increase all the time.


"I'm not aware of anything that would give all the (doping)
innuendo any substance."


Thompson said one of his swimmers had been drug-tested four times
in 10 days in the leadup to the world championships here.


While he is happy with the doping regime conducted by
authorities, he admitted that recreational drugs would always be
a temptation, but was confident the Australian team would steer
clear.


"I think it is always a worry. It is a lifestyle problem," he
said.


"We are very lucky in our sport to have a group of athletes who
are very dedicated to the pursuit of excellence and any wayward
activities would affect their training regime and performances.


"I am not worried and I think we have the protocols that cover
those areas of concern."


Swimming was rocked by a series of drugs scandals in the 1990s,
several major ones involving China and a smattering of other high
profile cases.


In recent years Australian superstar Ian Thorpe, now retired, has
provoked the ire of FINA with remarks that the sport harbours
some drug cheats.

