

Grant Hackett says his performance in the 400m freestyle on
Sunday's opening day of the world swimming competition will gauge
his chances of protecting his 10-year unbeaten 1500m record.


The Australian Olympic and world champion has had a chequered
build-up to the 12th FINA world titles, switching coaches and
about to be married, but he believes the pieces are falling into
place.


Hackett, 26, has swum the second-fastest 400m time in history
behind the retired world record holder Ian Thorpe and is the
reigning world champion from the 2005 Montreal championships.


The most decorated swimmer in world championship history with 17
medals will get an early assessment of his prospects in the 400m
heats, where his main rivals are expected to be Russian Yuri
Prilukov, American Peter Vanderkaay and Tunisia's Oussama
Mellouli.


"After going through the process of the taper (easing workload)
and with the background that I have, I've still trained very well
in my broken parts of this preparation and I've seen myself lift
during the taper," Hackett said at a press conference Wednesday.


"It's not my best but I'll definitely be able to put on a decent
show and a decent performance and be competitive amongst these
guys."


The Australian team are looking to feed off an anticipated
Hackett 400m gold on the opening night to fuel momentum for the
rest of the home world titles.


Hackett believes it will take a time in the low 3:40's to win
gold in the 400m. Thorpe's world record stands at 3:40.08.


"It's going to be very competitive and there's going to be a lot
of guys swimming fast and in the low 3:40's and it's going to
take a very good time to win that," he said.


"It's a good indication of where you are at and if you perform
strongly in the 400m it obviously means you are swimming well and
you're capable of producing fast times.


"So it will be nice to swim fast in the 400m and produce a good
time and then for the 1500m just wait and see.


"If it's good (time) I'll be happy and confident but if it's not
bad I'll just have to try to stay relaxed and focused (for the
1500m) and know that's a totally different race and the
strategies are totally different."


Hackett is backing his extensive experience to repel his
challengers in his pet 1500m event, held on the final night of
the championships on April 1.


"I know I am a tough competitor when I get up and race, I've been
there before and I've been in tough situations before so I'm just
looking forward to racing it," said Hackett, who holds the world
record at 14:34.56, set six years ago.


"There a lot of guys who have improved in distance swimming over
the past couple of years and certainly that 14:40 mark is
probably around the time it will take to win that event.


"There are just so many guys swimming under 15 minutes these
days, that could even take the edge off the final if they get
people swimming around that mark and then produce another swim 36
hours later."


Hackett, who has won two Olympic and four world 1500m titles in
nine years, hasn't been beaten in a 30-lap race for 10 years
since taking over from Australia's former Olympic and world
champion Kieren Perkins.


"The fact that I've had that record for so many years gives you
confidence.


"I have a lot of background and trained very hard in the event
for many years so that helps me with my performance and
confidence leading into the event," Hackett said.

