

Oversized underpants, waffled moon-boots and tutu-draped suits --
as Jean Paul Gaultier marks 30 years of high fashion, a Paris
show underlines the "bad boy's" lasting taste for the weird and
wonderful.


The show at the Decorative Arts museum adjoining the Louvre
features 100 previously unseen stage costumes designed by
fashion's "enfant terrible", the majority for a 1985 ballet
spoofing both classical dance and high fashion.


Titled "Le Defile" ("catwalk show") after the haute couture shows
of the time, the ballet choreographed by France's Regine Chopinot
"marked the first time that clothing played the central role on
stage," curator Olivier Saillard told AFP. "The clothes
determined the dance."


The ballet, which was set on a T-shaped catwalk, featured 14
scenes in which dancers paraded an unlikely collection of finely-
made Gaultier clothes, including giant waist-to-knee men's white
underpants and tutus sewn around suits.


Saillard said it had taken two years of work to reassemble the
costumes stocked in trunks and boxes by the choreographer's dance
company. "It was practically an archeological expedition," he
said.


Like Coco Chanel who designed for Russian ballet supremo Sergei
Diaghilev, or more recently Issey Miyake and William Forsythe,
Gaultier worked for a decade with Chopinot, creating costumes for
16 ballets, video-clips and films between 1983 and 2004.


In "Le Defile," the pair, both born in 1952, sent dancers out
wearing platform shoes instead of slippers, giant bubble-like
costumes made of waffled tulle that parodied tutus, and
improbable woolly crinolines.


"The 80s were highly creative years for fashion designers, it was
before big business took over fashion, a time when catwalk shows
were more spectacular than nowadays," Saillard said.


In terms of fashion history, the exhibition of designs dating
back two decades, chronicles Gaultier's obsession with corsets,
stripes and the iconic cone-shaped breasts made globally famous
by Madonna during her 1990 World Tour.


Gaultier's sense of humour also shines -- some of the costumes
feature plastic hairs on legs and elsewhere.


The show, the curator added, highlights Gaultier's influence on
the new generation of fashion designers such as Alexander
McQueen, Hussein Chalayan and Viktor and Rolf.


The exhibition runs from March 22 to September 23.

