

The lawyer for deposed Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra on
Wednesday rejected allegations of corruption made by the army-
installed government, saying the charges were politically
motivated.


Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont told reporters Tuesday during a
trip to Japan that investigations into Thaksin's alleged
corruption could be wrapped up this month and was confident it
would "pin him down."


Investigations by the junta-appointed Assets Examination
Committee have already resulted in tax evasion charges against
Thaksin's wife. Two of their children could face similar charges,
officials said earlier this week.


"Instead of promoting reconciliation as his government vowed to
do, Surayud took the opportunity while he was abroad to blame and
attack Thaksin," said lawyer Noppadon Pattama.


"The Assets Examination Committee is empowered by the junta, and
they do everything the military rulers order," Noppadon told
reporters.


Noppadon said he had spoken late Tuesday with Thaksin, who has
stayed in exile since the military toppled him in September.


Surayud is in Tokyo for the signing of a free trade deal with
Japan -- a pact that had been negotiated by Thaksin's government.


During a press conference in Tokyo, Surayud accused Thaksin of
consolidating political and financial power while prime minister,
of alleged abuse of state power, widespread corruption,
curtailment of media freedom and a disastrous human rights
record.


"Surayud attacked Thaksin over human rights violations and
attacks on independent media, but in fact a coup is the worst
kind of human rights violation, while Surayud's government has
also taken control of media," he said, referring to seizure of a
television channel once owned by Thaksin's company.


"Surayud, meanwhile, avoided speaking about the failure of his
government to solve the southern insurgency and the declining
popularity of his government," Noppadon added.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in Thailand's Muslim
south since a separatist insurgency erupted in January 2004.
Surayud has made a series of peace initiatives, only to see the
violence escalate since the coup.

