

Coach Mickey Arthur believes that a different mind-set and hard
work are the keys to top-ranked South Africa's successes in one-
day internationals over the past 12 months.


"I think our minds have changed and we are a lot more positive
now," said Arthur, whose side recently topped the International
Cricket Council one-day rankings for the first time by pushing
Australia into the second place.


"When I came in, I came with a plan. We came in with a plan to
get us to number one. We were fifth in the world at that point of
time and we worked very hard at it."


"We worked very hard on our players and we worked very hard on
our opposition. After 18 months, it's quite nice to be number
one. To come from fifth to nunber one is something we are
extremely proud of."


Arthur, who became the coach in 2005, said South Africa had
quality players to execute the plans and put pressure on the
opposition with their positive approach in the shorter version of
the game.


"We have changed our game plans. (Captain) Graeme Smith and I
came out with a more positive game plan. I think we have
pioneered the one-day cricket to a degree in terms of targetting
the oppositions' strength," he said.


"Our fielding has gone to a new level. We are attacking the
middle overs a lot more now. We look to strike when we bowl
instead of defending. Our attack is an attack, not defence."


South Africa enjoyed a superb run in one-day internationals in
the past 12 months which saw them win 15 of their 21 matches
ahead of the World Cup. They have also won three of the four
games in the ongoing tournament.


Arthur said his team had been aggressive in their approach in
recent months.


"It's not about going through 50 overs and then trying to chase
whatever the opposition get. We are looking to strike. We are
looking to do something with the new ball, so I think the one-day
crikcet has gone that way," he said.


"We have slips and a gully for a longer period of time. It's
great to be number one in the world and it's a testimony to all
the hard work the players have put in over the past 18 months."


South Africa have lost just one match in the ongoing World Cup,
against defending champions Australia in the first round, but it
failed to dislodge them from the top spot.


Their tense one-wicket win over Sri Lanka in a Super Eights game
here last week helped them gain a slender lead over Australia.


"I'm delighted that we are top of the one-day rankings and I
think it is a just reward for all the hard work and dedication
the guys have shown over the past 18 months or so," said Smith.


"Although this is very pleasing for us, it will not detract us
from the immediate job at hand. We are completely focused on the
World Cup and we want to do the very best we can while we are
here in the Caribbean."


South Africa, who had two points before their match against
Ireland here on Tuesday, will meet New Zealand, England, the West
Indies and Bangladesh in their remaining games in the second
round.

