

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on Wednesday warned his Japanese
counterpart not to go to a controversial war shrine ahead of a
visit to Tokyo meant to cement warming ties.


Wen said he was hopeful of achieving progress during next week's
visit to Japan, which is the first by a Chinese leader in seven
years.


"Individual Japanese leaders have visited numerous times and hurt
the feelings of the Chinese people," Wen said in an interview
with Japanese reporters in Beijing.


"I hope this will never happen again," he said, as quoted by
Kyodo News.


Wen will visit Japan from April 11-13, the first trip here by a
Chinese premier since Zhu Rongji in 2000, as the two nations
explore ways to thaw relations haunted by Japanese aggression in
China during World War II.


Yasukuni shrine has been at the core of tension between the two
nations. It enshrines 2.5 million Japanese war dead including
World War II leaders condemned by US-led allied powers as war
criminals.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, formerly a vocal advocate of
politicians visiting the Yasukuni shrine, has maintained a
strategic silence on whether he will go as premier and he tries
to mend ties with China and South Korea.


"Regarding Yasukuni, things will remain as I have said
previously. My thoughts will not change," Abe told reporters in
Tokyo after Wen's remarks.


China and Japan have been working to improve relations strained
in recent years over differences in interpreting wartime history
and continuing energy disputes, among other issues.


Wen said he was optimistic about the outlook of the dispute over
development of gas fields in the East China Sea, saying "I
believe this can be resolved through peaceful means if we
continue to work together and negotiate."


The Asian countries, which are two of the world's biggest energy
importers, last week resumed talks on the energy row after a
break of nine months and agreed to work to a solution in time for
Wen's visit.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso also agreed to seek progress
on the gas issue during a meeting Tuesday with his Chinese
counterpart Li Zhaoxing on the sidelines of a South Asian summit
in New Delhi.


Wen said his trip was an occasion to warm chilled relations but
also called on Abe to "keep his promises and promote to enhance
the China-Japan relationship," Jiji Press reported.


The Chinese leader said he wanted to draft a joint statement on
relations with Abe. Wen is also due to meet with Emperor Akihito,
visit the ancient city of Kyoto and address the Japanese
parliament.


Abe visited China in October just after taking office, the first
trip by a Japanese premier to Beijing in five years.


China refused all summits with Abe's predecessor Junichiro
Koizumi due to his repeated visits to the Yasukuni shrine, which
China calls a symbol of wartime atrocities.


"We must view our history as a mirror and learn lessons, as we
must pave the new path of the Sino-Japan cooperation," Wen said,
according to public broadcaster NHK.


Abe caused an uproar a month ago when he denied Japanese troops
directly coerced Asian sex slaves into World War II army
brothels. He later said he stood by Japan's apology to the so-
called "comfort women."

