

Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam Jones, who has been arrested
five times, is set to have a hearing with the National Football
League's disciplinary officials on Tuesday.


Jones, who goes by the nickname Pacman, and wide receiver Chris
Henry will go face-to-face with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell.


The troubled players have embarrassed the league with their
behaviour off the field.


Jones is facing felony and misdemeanour charges of obstructing
police in Georgia from an incident in February 2006.


Last month, Las Vegas police recommended prosecutors file a
felony charge of coercion and misdemeanour charges of battery
against Jones, stemming from a February 19 shooting at a strip
club which left one victim with a severed spinal cord.


On the field, Jones is a rising star for the Tennessee Titans.


But Titans coach Jeff Fisher suspended Jones one game last season
for a "series of off-the-field incidents."


The team that has experienced the most problems off the field is
the Cincinnati Bengals, who have had nine players arrested on a
variety of charges ranging from drunk driving to weapons
violations. Henry stands out on the Bengals with four arrests in
the last three years.


"I just want to meet with these young men to get to understand
them better and make them understand we're going to do what we
need to do to protect the integrity of the NFL," Goodell said.


Before the hearings with Jones and Henry, Goodell will meet for
the first time with a newly formed players advisory committee
that will work with the league in formulating a new player
conduct policy that is expected to be instituted later this
month.


Disciplining players who get into trouble with the law topped the
agenda at the league meetings last week.


Goodell made it clear then that he intended to adopt a policy
that will allow the league to impose harsher and quicker
discipline to players who encounter off-the-field problems.


Legal obstacles could dictate specifics of the new discipline
policy, such as punishment for players who might be involved in
cases that are not judicially resolved.


Penalties could include suspensions of up to one year, especially
for repeat offenders.

