

Iran on Wednesday welcomed a "change of tone" from Britain in the
13-day crisis over its seizure of 15 British sailors after Prime
Minister Tony Blair expressed hope direct talks could solve the
standoff.


The new comments marked a distinct moderation in rhetoric between
the two sides, raising hopes that there could be an end in sight
to the row that has further poisoned relations between Iran and
the West.


"London's action in changing its propaganda tone regarding the
issue of the arrest of the British sailors in our territorial
waters is appropriate," Iran's parliament speaker Gholam Ali
Hadad Adel said as he left for Pakistan.


"The effective measures taken by the British in the past few days
make the tone of their rhetoric more logical and instead of
controversy they are inclined towards negotiations," he added.


"This is a more appropriate action," he said.


His comments came after Britain said it favoured direct talks
with Iran to resolve the standoff and British officials held what
appeared to be their first contacts with Iran's top security
official Ali Larijani since the crisis began.


"There have been further contacts between the United Kingdom and
Iran this evening (Tuesday), including directly with Dr Ali
Larijani," Downing Street said in a statement.


"On the basis of these (contacts), the prime minister believes
that both sides share a desire for an early resolution of this
issue through direct talks.


"The prime minister remains committed to resolving this by
diplomatic means," it said.


It also said that Britain has proposed "direct bilateral
discussions and awaits an Iranian response on when these can
begin."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due at 1200 GMT to hold
a keenly awaited news conference to mark the Persian New Year
where he is expected to make comments on the crisis.


However despite hopes that the 14 men and one woman could soon be
free, Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett urged people to be
"cautious in assuming that we are likely to see a swift
resolution to this issue."


The British foreign office confirmed to AFP that the Iranian
ambassador Rasoul Movahedian met with Foreign Office minister
Lord David Triesman on Tuesday evening, the eighth meeting
between the pair in 10 days.


Iran has insisted that they key to resolving the crisis is an
admission from Britain that the sailors and marines did intrude
into Iranian territorial waters when they were arrested on March
23.


"The British should confess that they made a mistake and they
should no longer commit such moves," said Hadad Adel.


Britain maintains that the group were carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters but Iran says that their
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices show they intruded on
Iranian waters.


The US Navy meanwhile said it had stepped up vigilance following
the detention of the sailors.


The softening of tone also coincided with the release in Baghdad
of an Iranian diplomat who had been kidnapped in Iraq since early
February. Iran had blamed US forces in the country for the
abduction.


Blair had said Tuesday that the stand-off faced a "critical" 48
hours, warning that he may be forced to take "tougher decisions"
if the naval personnel are not freed.


New still images were released on Tuesday of the detained sailors
and marines, showing them "relaxing" in tracksuits and playing
chess, a change from the previous string of video "confessions."


"It looks like these sailors are happy with spending time in good
conditions under the Iranians' Islamic kindness instead of
operating in the hard conditions of the Persian Gulf," the semi-
official Fars news agency said.


In Washington, US President George W. Bush insisted there should
be no "quid pro quos" with Iran, when asked if five Iranians held
since January by US forces in Iraq on suspicion of aiding
insurgents should be freed to favour a possible release of the
Britons.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.

