

Oil prices were slightly higher in Asian trade Wednesday as
Britain awaited Iran's response to its proposal for direct
bilateral discussions over the 15 naval personnel detained by
Tehran.


Britain said overnight that the two countries shared a desire to
resolve the impasse just hours after Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett cautioned against hope of a "swift resolution" to the
stand-off.


At 11:30 am (0330 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up two cents to 64.66
dollars a barrel from 64.64 dollars a barrel in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May rose seven cents to 67.88 dollars.


Prices had fallen sharply overnight on hopes for an easing of
tensions with Iran.


"People feel that there are some signs that both sides are moving
to a peaceful resolution and towards diplomacy. This has brought
the geopolitical risk premium in the market down," said
Mitsubishi Corp's Tokyo-based energy risk manager Tony Nunan.


He cautioned however that this did not mean tensions would ease
quickly, noting that Iran remains under international pressure
over its nuclear programme.


Oil prices have risen over the past week on concerns that Iran,
the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, could move to cut its
exports should the crisis with Britain escalate.


Iran's detention of 15 British sailors and marines has further
poisoned relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested uranium- enrichment programme.


Uranium is a key ingredient for a nuclear bomb but Iran says its
research is meant for peacful purposes.


To resolve the row over the detained British personnel, Britain
has proposed "direct bilateral discussions" and was waiting for
Iran's response.


Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, said the new contacts
could create the conditions for ending the stand-off as both
sides toned down their rhetoric.


Iran insists that the 15 marines and sailors were captured on
March 23 because they had illegally entered Iranian waters.
Britain claims they were taken while in Iraqi waters.


Meanwhile, the market is looking ahead to the US Department of
Energy (DoE) weekly report on energy stocks to be released later
Wednesday.


Analysts are forecasting a drop in gasoline (petrol) and
distillate stocks and a build in crude.


Gasoline inventories, which have been falling for the past few
weeks amid growing demand ahead of the peak US driving season,
will be a key figure.


"The refineries are coming out of the spring maintainance season
... we can expect to see a build in gasoline in the next few
weeks and fears of insufficient gasoline supply will be
alleviated," Nunan said.

