

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene believes the side's current
bowling attack is the best he's known in 10 years as an
international player.


As well as unique off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan, left-arm pace
bowler Chaminda Vaas and the often under-rated left-arm spinner
Sanath Jayasuriya, who all played in the Sri Lanka side that won
the 1996 World Cup, the attack now features extraordinary pace
bowler Lasith Malinga.


"Right now with the combinations we have, I think we have a
better bowling attack than I've ever known in the 10 years I've
been in the side because we have so many attacking options
nowadays," said Jayawardene.


Muralitharan, 34, has long been the fulcrum of the Sri Lanka
attack, with over 1,000 wickets combined in Tests and one-day
internationals.


Jayawardene said the secret of his success was a remorseless
desire to improve.


"Murali for me is a guy who'd always liked challenges. He's now
trying new things in his career because he feels he needs to a
stay a step ahead of the opposition.


"He's coming up with new ideas at practices, he's trying things
out with us. He's always been like that.


"I've played with him for the last 10 years," Jayawardene added.
"He's not satisfied with where he is, he always wants to try
something new. It's not a surprise to see that he's still
dominating world cricket."


However, he insisted that Sri Lanka's batsmen could pick Murali -
at least some of the time.


"We've been playing him for so long. But it's quite difficult now
because he's turning it differently to be honest. He's not
turning it as much although, if he wants, he can turn it a lot.


"But he feels that sometimes when he turns too much he's not
getting the advantage. But with the straighter one yes, we can
definitely pick him."


And now Jayawardene has an extra attacking option in 23-year-old
Malinga whose distinctive slingy, round-arm action makes him
especially difficult to face.


Malinga came to prominence during Sri Lanka's tour of England
last year where, after squaring the Test series 1-1,
Jayawardene's team thrashed their hosts 5-0 in the subsequent
one-dayers.


Last Wednesday, Malinga became the first bowler in one-day
international history to take four wickets in four balls in a
burst that so nearly gave his side an improbable Super Eights
success against South Africa.


"He's developed very nicely in the last 12 months," Jayawardene
said of Malinga. "Ever since England, that's where he took the
new ball, especially in one-day cricket.


"He's had a brilliant impact for our team because he is a guy I
can throw the ball to and ask him to bowl one over at any
particular time and he will give me 100 percent.


"I don't have to ask him 'do you need a couple of overs to get
going?'. That's something really good to have, because he can
come in first ball and at 140 kph and be on the spot. You can't
ask for anything else."


Top-order batsman Jayawardene said facing Malinga in the nets was
sometimes even worse than playing him in the middle.


"Because we've played him so many times, our guys are finding it
a bit easier. But, all of a sudden, he'll give you one out of the
blue and either it will go just past your face or hit your toes."

