

Thailand expects big gains for its exports after signing a free
trade deal with Japan, which analysts said Wednesday would
reassure skittish investors about doing business in the kingdom.


The deal that slashes 90 percent of tariffs was signed after a
series of economic policy blunders by Thailand's military-
installed government, including controversial currency controls
and proposed limits on foreign investments.


The policy shift had raised fears of a protectionist tilt in the
new government and cast doubt on the kingdom's willingness to
welcome foreign investment.


Analysts said the deal would go a long way toward easing those
concerns, while providing a much-needed boost to Thailand's
export-driven economy -- especially for automobiles, textiles,
and farm goods.


"The broad free trade agreement with Japan will surely help
improve the credibility of Thailand for foreign investors," said
Takashi Shiraishi, professor of the National Graduate Institute
for Policy Studies in Japan.


"What is worth noting is that recently the new Thai finance
minister, Chalongphab, has been working to eliminate anxieties
among foreign investors that were stirred by former finance
minister's policies such as currency control," he said.


"The Japan-Thailand free trade deal was sealed in this context,
so that its impact on Thailand's credibility as a target of
investment is all the more effective and positive," he added.


Japan is the biggest foreign investor in Thailand, with some
7,000 Japanese firms here. Since the coup, many of them had
considered moving to other Southeast Asian countries seen as
being more welcoming, said Aat Pisanwanich, director of the
International Trade Studies Centre at the University of the Thai
Chamber of Commerce.


"Now their confidence in Thailand has been strengthened because
of the signing" of the free trade deal, he told AFP.


The Federation of Thai Industries, the nation's biggest business
group, forecast that exports to Japan would surge by one billion
dollars in the first year after the deal takes effect.


Before the deal was signed, Thai exports to Japan were expected
to reach 17.5 billion dollars this year, up six percent from
2006.


FTI vice chairman Adisak Rohitasune, who is also a Honda
executive, said the deal would also help Thailand in its drive to
become the "Detroit of the East" by lower costs for automakers.


Japanese giants like Toyota, Isuzu and Honda have increasingly
moved to turn Thailand into a regional production and
distribution center. The kingdom has overtaken the United States
as the world's biggest maker of one-tonne pickups.


The free trade deal slashes duties on steel imports and auto
parts from Japan, making locally-made vehicles more competitive
overseas.


"The deal will also make Thailand more attractive in the eyes of
Japanese carmakers to turn Thailand into their export hubs. The
FTA could possibly encourage them to shift investments for models
currently produced in Japan or China to Thailand," Adisak told
AFP.


Japan has also agreed to abolish its tariffs on Thai textiles,
which is expected to produce a 40 percent jump in exports within
two years, according to the Thai Garment Manufacturers'
Association.


"With the 12-percent import tariff being abolished immediately,
Thai textiles would increase their competitiveness against
Chinese-made products in the Japanese market," said Suchart
Chantranakaraj, an advisor to trade group.


Japan is already the third biggest buyer of Thai textiles, with
shipments worth 350 million dollars last year, he said.


Although the deal leaves protections for Japan's politically
powerful rice growers, Tokyo will scrap tariffs on Thai shrimp
and tropical fruit such as mangoes and durian.


Tariffs on chicken will also be halved, which will help
Thailand's poultry exporters, who have been battered by
international bans on raw Thai chicken due to bird flu fears.


Thailand has adapted by exporting more cooked chicken, which is
not affected by the bans. Japan last year bought half of the 33
billion baht (1.01 billion dollars) worth of chicken that
Thailand exported last year.

