

Britain has had "further contacts" with Iran over the 15 naval
personnel detained by Tehran, which indicate a shared desire to
resolve the stand-off, British Prime Minister Tony Blair's office
said late Tuesday.


"There have been further contacts between the United Kingdom and
Iran this evening, including directly with Dr Ali Larijani,"
Blair's Downing Street office said in a statement, referring to
Iran's top national security official.


"On the basis of these, the prime minister believes that both
sides share a desire for an early resolution of this issue
through direct talks. The prime minister remains committed to
resolving this by diplomatic means."


The statement also said that Britain has proposed "direct
bilateral discussions and awaits an Iranian response on when
these can begin."


Iran has held eight sailors and seven marines since March 23
after seizing them in the northern Gulf on charges of entering
into Iranian waters.


Britain insists the naval group was in Iraqi waters on a routine
anti-smuggling operation.


The Foreign Office meanwhile confirmed to AFP that the Iranian
ambassador to London Rasoul Movahedian met with Foreign Office
minister Lord David Triesman on Tuesday evening, the eighth
meeting between the two in 10 days.


"Today's meeting was another opportunity for Lord Triesman to
reiterate the United Kingdom's position in this matter," a
ministry spokesman said.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett earlier cautioned against hope
of a "swift resolution" to the stand-off between the two
countries, though Tehran has hinted at moves to help end the
crisis.


"I would urge you to be cautious in assuming that we are likely
to see a swift resolution to this issue," Beckett told reporters.


She also played down the possibility of military action: "We are
not seeking confrontation. We are seeking to pursue this through
diplomatic channels."


Earlier Tuesday, Blair had said the stand-off faced a "critical"
48 hours, warning that he may be forced to take "tougher
decisions" if the naval personnel are not freed.

