

AC Milan are confident they can still reach the last four of the
Champions League, despite conceding two away goals in Tuesday's
quarter-final, first leg draw at home to Bayern Munich.


Bayern have the upper hand in the tie after Daniel Van Buyten's
goal in the third minute of stoppage time - his second of the
night - secured a precious 2-2 draw for the German visitors.


Milan need a victory or a higher-scoring draw in Munich next
week, and Carlo Ancelotti believes the six-time European
champions are still very much in the tie.


"We certainly could have done better tonight and we conceded two
soft goals," said the Milan coach who will be without Alberto
Gilardino for the second leg after the striker picked up a yellow
card.


"But overall I thought we deserved to win. The tie is not over.
We have to go there and win and that's not beyond us."


Marek Jankulovski was equally upbeat about Milan's chances.


"It's not a positive result, but we have it in us to win in
Munich," said the left-sided Czech midfielder.


Bayern handler Ottmar Hitzfeld was ecstatic with his side's
performance.


"We played brilliantly for 70 minutes in the manner we controlled
Milan," said the veteran coach, whose return to the club after
Felix Magath was sacked earlier this season has heralded a
resurgence in their form.


However, he said that the second leg would be a tough
examination.


"Milan will be tougher than Real Madrid (their opponents in the
last round) because they are more solid defensively and attack
more intelligently."


Bayern striker Roy Mckaay said his team could not take anything
for granted.


"We know that Milan are very dangerous away from home, and it
would be a mistake to think that the job is already done," said
the Dutchman.


Bayern could be without Willy Sagnol for the second leg after the
French international defender suffered a right knee injury.


AC Milan had appeared to be on their way to a controversial win
when Kaka had tucked away a highly dubious penalty in the 84th
minute, awarded after he had gone down in the box after a sliding
tackle from Lucio.


Replays clearly showed Lucio making contact with the ball rather
than Kaka, his Brazil international team-mate but Russian referee
Yuri Baskakov pointed straight to the spot.


However justice was served when Belgian defender Van Buyten
popped up right at the death to capitalise on some slack Milan
defending and Bayern left the San Siro with two vital away goals.


Milan only had a rare headed goal from Andrea Pirlo to show for a
first half of intense pressure that should have yielded more for
the six-time European champions.


Bayern made the hosts pay for their profligacy by equalising in
the 78th minute, Van Buyten prodding home from close range after
Milan had failed to deal with Hasan Salihamidzic's cross.


Bayern host the second leg in Munich on April 11, and the winner
will play either Roma or Manchester United in the semi-finals.

