

Glenn McGrath has made almost as much a speciality of rubbishing
the England cricket team as he has of taking their wickets during
his long career.


And ahead of what could be his final meeting with the 'Poms', in
Sunday's World Cup Super Eights clash, the Australia fast bowler
was at it again.


"The way England have been playing and the way we have been
playing, we should win this game pretty well," McGrath said on
Tuesday.


Reigning champions Australia, unbeaten in the World Cup so far,
have been in commanding form since coming to the Caribbean.


England, shock 2-0 winners in the CB series final over the
Aussies in February, have, by contrast, been unimpressive.


They have lost to the only Test side they've played so far, New
Zealand and, come this weekend, their World Cup campaign could be
on the line if they lose to 1996 champions Sri Lanka here on
Wednesday.


This is the 37-year-old McGrath's final tournament before
retirement.


Test cricket's most successful fast bowler bowed out of the five-
day game by taking a wicket last ball on his Sydney home ground
as Australia completed a 5-0 Ashes series thrashing of England
earlier this year.


But he admitted he was surprised by the way England then
recovered in the one- dayers.


"They played well to finish off the summer in Australia, we
probably let our guard down a bit," said McGrath, who in 32 one-
dayers against England has taken 50 wickets at just over 23
apiece.


"Since we've been over here we've prepared exactly the way we
wanted to prepare and we've played some awesome cricket.


"To be honest, no team has really got close to us."


Only occasionally has McGrath had to eat his words when it comes
to his clashes with England, notably two years ago when he
predicted an Australia clean sweep of the Ashes only for England
to win the 2005 series 2-1 instead.


"I have always enjoyed playing England. Potentially, it could be
the last time I come up against these guys before I hang the
boots up so it would be nice to finish on a good note."


McGrath has shown no sign of winding down as he bids for a third
straight World Cup winners' medal after starring in Australia's
1999 and 2003 triumphs.


In Saturday's 10-wicket rout of Bangladesh, he broke Wasim
Akram's record of 55 World Cup wickets during a typically miserly
spell of three for 16.


But McGrath, who has cited a desire to spend more time with his
young family and wife Jane, who has suffered several bouts of
cancer, as the reasons behind his retirement, said deciding to
call it a day was about more than cricket.


"For me, I could keep playing, the body's feeling great,"
McGrath, bidding for a fourth straight appearance in the final
after losing to Sri Lanka 11 years ago, added.


"I've still got that competitive edge when I'm out there but it's
everything else that goes with it and that's the reason I
retired. They're the things you have to weigh up."


Australia will have had eight days between games by the time they
play England and McGrath said there were pros and cons to such a
lenghty lay-off.


"It's good you can get around the islands and have a bit of a
break. But when you are in a tournament like this and playing
well, you want to keep the momentum up.


"Eight days off in between games, that's probably a bit too
long."

