

Phil Mickelson will unveil a secret weapon, a second driver
designed specifically to offset the lengthened Augusta National
Golf Club layout, when he opens defense of his Masters crown
Thursday.


The 36-year-old US southpaw used two drivers last year when he
captured his second Masters title in three years and third major
crown overall. This time, he has spent six months plotting just
what is needed for another green jacket.


"It's a driver that I've been working on specifically for the
Masters because the length of the golf course is so long that I
needed that extra length to combat it," Mickelson said.


"We've been working six months on this club for this tournament."


Last year, Mickelson used new technology to fight an Augusta
National layout stretched to its limits by technological
advances. It worked so well that there is little reason for
Mickelson to switch now.


"I plan on using it a reasonable amount," Mickelson said. "The
longer driver, the square-headed one, goes 20 yards longer than
my regular one. When I try to hit little low shots or work around
the trees on 10 or 13 I'll use the regular- shaped driver."


In addition to dropping his sand wedge for the extra driver,
Mickelson will replace his 3-wood with a 64-degree wedge. Both
banished clubs have been made useless by the combination of
Mickelson's game and Augusta's changes.


"Since the course has been lengthened I don't ever need a sand
wedge," said Mickelson.


Mickelson's notorious collapse at the finish of last year's US
Open, double bogeys at 17 and 18 to lose to Australian Geoff
Ogilvy, has made him more determined to avoid such a meltdown
again.


"It wasn't as big a confidence killer. I'm not thinking about the
US Open as much as I'm thinking about defending the Masters
championship," he said.


"Dealing with good and bad is part of life. You have to deal with
failure so often in golf. I'm not trying to downplay it. It
stung. But it also challenged me in areas to improve my driving
so it doesn't happen again."


Mickelson said he has never felt more comfortable in a final
round than when he played here last year, a calm he will need to
reclaim despite not playing the week before the Masters as he
typically did, and two bad showings in his final Augusta tuneups.


"I'm a little bit nervous about not being in competition in so
long or having been in contention in a while," Mickelson said.
"That's probably my biggest concern."


Mickelson, who arrived here last week for practice rounds with
his swing coaches, has 10 top-10 finishes in his past 12 Masters
starts. His first major win came here in 2004 and was followed by
the 2005 PGA Championship and last year's Masters victory.


Mickelson won at Pebble Beach earlier this year, his first
victory since last year's Masters, and reached a playoff in Los
Angeles before losing to Charlie Howell.

