

Australian immigration agents are searching for two Democratic
Republic of Congo swimmers who went missing after competing in
the World Swimming Championships, officials said Wednesday.


Immigration officers said officials from the world swimming body
FINA were helping to try to locate Aymard Lumuamu-Dimbu and Iglay
Dangassat-Sissoulou, who failed to catch their flight back to
their civil-war ravaged homeland.


The pair had been in Melbourne along with two other compatriots
to take part in the world championships that ended Sunday, but
they did not return home as scheduled.


Immigration officials said the men would be able to lodge asylum
claims if they wished but warned that they could damage their
case by evading officials or overstaying their visas, which
expire in June.


"If they have any (asylum) claims they wish to make, we can put
that process in train," a spokeswoman for Immigration Minister
Kevin Andrews said.


"But their case is not helped if they become illegal persons,"
she said, urging the missing swimmers to contact the immigration
department urgently.


Neither swimmer qualified beyond their first heats during the
championships.


The pair's disappearance comes after 40 athletes and officials
sought asylum in Australia following the Commonwealth Games in
Melbourne last year.


Among them were six athletes from Sierra Leone who vanished from
the Games and later turned up in Sydney. All but four of the 40
were later accounted for and 32 were granted protection visas.


The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo Association of
Victoria, Clyde Salumu, told The Age newspaper he would help the
missing swimmers should they seek his assistance.


"The civil war has not ended. There has been war since 1997 and
millions are dead. In many places there is serious instability,
militia and areas that are dangerous," he told the paper.


Almost four million people out of the DRC's population of 62
million have died from injuries in the civil war and war-related
diseases.

