

Tom Moody has "brought something special" to the Sri Lanka team
according to skipper Mahela Jayawardene.


But he said whether the "brilliant" coach stayed with the side
beyond the World Cup was a matter for the former Australia
international alone.


Moody, twice a World Cup winner as a player, has been tipped to
succeed Duncan Fletcher as England coach following the side's 5-0
Ashes thrashing by Australia, and has said he will review his
future after the World Cup.


Formerly in charge of English county Worcestershire, Moody
replaced fellow former Australia player John Dyson as Sri Lanka's
coach in 2005 and since then the 1996 champions have undergone a
resurgence in form that has seen them emerge as serious
contenders for the title in the Caribbean.


During last year's tour of England, Moody coped with the fall-out
from the  Test 'retirement' and then return of star batsman
Sanath Jayasuriya to help his young side draw a Test series 1-1
before they triumphed 5-0 in the subsequent one- dayers against
England.


Jayawardene, speaking ahead of Wednesday's Super Eights clash
between the sides at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, praised the
impact Moody had had in broadening even the horizons of even
senior players such as Jayasuriya and off- spinner Muttiah
Muralitharan.


"Obviously we've enjoyed playing under him. The thing he's done
is push everyone in the team from Murali to Sanath to myself to
the youngest player in the camp, he has pushed us not to stay in
our comfort zones and push ourselves to see what's out there,"
explained Jayawardene.


"Every day we go for practices, we don't just turn up. We make
sure we try and learn something new as batsmen and bowlers.


"That's something special Tom has brought into this team and
obviously a lot of the guys like the way he handles players as
well."


He said it was no surprise to him that 41-year-old Western
Australian Moody, who played eight Tests and 76 one-day
internationals, had been linked with other jobs.


"When people are successful that can happen. He wanted to take us
to the World Cup and then see where he wanted to be. It's his
decision."


But he added that whether Moody stayed or went, Sri Lanka cricket
would remain on an upward curve.


"We have to acknowledge he's been brilliant but Sri Lanka
cricket, whether he stays or not, will not divert from where we
are going. We've developed teams for the last 10 years and we are
heading in the right direction.


"If a new coach comes in he'll bring something new to the table
and we'll just have to adapt to that. If Tom stays it will be
brilliant as well and then we will try to push forward."

