

The German-US auto giant DaimlerChrysler officially confirmed for
the first time Wednesday that it is in talks to sell its troubled
US unit Chrysler.


"I can confirm that we are talking with some of the potential
partners who have shown a clear interest," DaimlerChrysler chief
executive Dieter Zetsche said in a speech prepared for delivery
at the car maker's annual shareholder meeting here.


But he continued: "It is also true that we need to keep all
options open and that I cannot disclose any details because we
need to have the maximum scope for manoeuvre."


Management needed "the greatest possible flexibility so that we
can identify and implement the best possible solution," Zetsche
said.


Speculation has been rife that Chrysler would be put up for sale
after it turned in operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5
billion dollars) last year, despite repeated restructuring over
recent years.


Chrysler is suffering from high fuel prices and a consumer shift
away from lucrative gasoline-guzzling trucks and large sports
utility vehicles.


In mid-February, DaimlerChrysler unveiled plans to slash
thousands more jobs and close two more plants at its loss-making
US subsidiary in what observers believed could be a last-ditch
attempt to turn the unit around.


The main aim was to steer Chrysler back to profit, Zetsche said.


"This means, that after reviewing all options, we will finally
decide for the option that best meets our criteria," the CEO
said.


"So far, I am satisfied with the process. Everything is going to
plan."


Meanwhile, DaimlerChrysler's outgoing supervisory board chief
Hilmar Kopper said in a newspaper interview Wednesday that he
could imagine Chrysler remaining within the group.


"There is of course a chance that Chrysler is still in the group
in two years," Kopper told the daily Die Welt.


Kopper, who was scheduled to retire as supervisory board chief at
the AGM on Wednesday, defended the decision to merge Daimler and
Chrysler in 1998.


"Many of the arguments in favour of a merger back then are still
valid today," he said.


And Kopper rejected suggestions that the tie-up had destroyed
value.


"We created value for the shareholders. We were better than half
of the DAX companies if you include the dividends," he said.


There was never any cross-subsidising between Chrysler and the
group's up-market Mercedes-Benz brand, Kopper insisted.

