

The financial welfare of many European clubs will be at stake
when French clubs meet on Thursday to decide whether or not to
follow through with their threat to boycott the European Cup.


The French held off from taking that decision after French
Federation president Bernard Lapasset asked them to so he could
hold talks with their English counterparts.


However with the English having decided to follow suit if the
French do agree to boycott next season's tournament it appears
that the jewel in the crown of northern hemisphere club rugby is
under serious threat.


That is certainly the viewpoint of Mark McCafferty, chief
executive of Premier Rugby, who told AFP there was no point in
competing without the French clubs being involved.


"If the French clubs are not in, it's not a European cup," said
McCafferty, whose body took the decision ironically just a day
after England had seen three of their clubs qualify for the
European Cup for the first time.


"While sometimes the English don't consider themselves part of
Europe, with all due to respect to anyone, a tournament without
the French clubs is not a European tournament.


"We don't want to go to court over that but it seems to me, we
cannot be forced into a competition that is not a true European
competition."


Both the French and the English have claimed that they share the
same reason for the threatened boycott - the Rugby Football Union
(RFU) granting English clubs equal shareholding in the European
Cup.


However many in the RFU, including director of rugby Rob Andrew,
share the view that the French are using that as a smokescreen
and their real reason is fixture congestion following the World
Cup which they are hosting in September and October.


The sport's governing body the IRB had told AFP back in January
they had offered to allow the French to conduct their
championship during the World Cup - which they normally don't
permit - but it had been flatly turned down.


"They (the clubs) have television contractual obligations on them
and their problem is completely different to the ones we face
with our clubs," said Andrew.


"The European Cup disagreement with our clubs is just one of
several isssues we have with them."


The English clubs' decision to follow the French was not exactly
met with joy by Lapasset either, though, the man with whom he has
been jousting, French playing legend Serge Blanco, now president
of the French National League, applauded their stance.


"I find the English clubs' decision extraordinarily courageous,"
he said sarcastically.


"It provokes this reflection from me 'Mister Frenchman, fire the
first shot'.


"I do not find this very courageous. All it does is send the ball
back into the French court."


Court is exactly where the RFU are threatening to take the
Premier clubs if they do follow through with their threat to
boycott the competition.


But while the tournament itself would be seriously damaged it
would be nothing compared to the financial impact on the clubs
from the remaining countries left competing.


"It (the boycott) will cost 500,000 pounds (approximately 750,000
euros) for each Welsh province," Llanelli Scarlets chief
executive Stuart Gallacher told AFP.


"It is a fifth of our budget. It will be a huge blow to the Welsh
sides just as it will be for the Irish and the Scots."

