

Two Malaysian bloggers, who are being sued by the same newspaper
for defamation, joined forces to fight their unprecedented
lawsuits Wednesday, which have been criticised for stifling free
expression.


The government-linked New Straits Times Press (NSTP) January
filed suits against Ahirudin Attan and Jeff Ooi over items
published on their websites last year, which criticised the
newspaper and the government.


Ooi's counsel, Malik Imtiaz Sarwar, said an application was made
Wednesday to Malaysia's high court to merge the actions against
Ahirudin and his client since their postings are "substantially
the same."


He said consolidating the two cases would prevent two separate
trials from being held, which risked inconsistent judgements
being made.


"It would be more expedient and it would allow for a
comprehensive determination by one judge of the issues involved,"
Malik told AFP.


"Seeing as how they are common publications, there are common
issues of fact and law," he said.


Ooi said lawyers for both the bloggers would work together on a
panel to defend the one case. The NSTP and the bloggers have
agreed to a black out on giving any details or commenting on the
contentious posts.


Ahirudin, who accompanied Ooi to court Wednesday, has said he may
call ex- premier Mahathir Mohamad and current prime minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi as witnesses in his defence, since they are
mentioned in the postings.


"Basically, joining the two cases will save Pak Lah from coming
to court twice," Ahirudin said, referring to Abdullah by his
popular name.


The high court on April 24 is scheduled to consider a separate
application by Ooi to strike out an interim injunction that has
stopped him from publishing articles or posting comments related
to the lawsuit.


Ooi writes the "Screenshots" blog, while Ahirudin blogs "Rocky's
Bru."


Malaysian bloggers and media watchdogs have attacked the
lawsuits, saying that they will stifle free expression in the
country where the media is already tightly controlled.

