

India's senior pro Sachin Tendulkar on Wednesday broke his
silence on the World Cup debacle, saying the first round ouster
had "shattered the team's dream."


In a rare public outburst, the usually reticent Tendulkar also
slammed media reports that coach Greg Chappell had blamed the
unhelpful attitude of senior players for the disastrous camaign.


The 33-year-old, statistically the most successful batsman ever
with a world record 35 Test and 41 one-day centuries, said he
would be very hurt if Chappell questioned his or the team's
commitment.


"I've given my heart and my soul for 17 years," said Tendulkar,
the most senior active cricketer in the world who made his
international debut in 1989.


"No coach had mentioned even in passing that my attitude was not
correct," he told the Times of India, which ran his comments as
the lead front-page story.


"It's not that we are defending ourselves. We do realise that we
played badly and, as a team, we take full responsibility for
that. But what hurt us most is if the coach has questioned our
attitude."


India, one of the pre-tournament favourites, were upset by
Bangladesh in the first match and were knocked out in the
preliminary stage after a second loss to Sri Lanka.


Tendulkar said he was disappointed by the reactions.


"Cricket has been my life for all these years and will always
be," he said.


"Tell me, the world has gone on talking about all this (our
defeat and exit) but has anybody spared a thought for us?


"Did they try to find out what we have been going through? I am
shattered beyond words and I feel helpless.


"I've never felt so bad in my entire career. The World Cup was
our passion, our collective goal, our dream and that has been
shattered.


"No matter how many Tests or one-day series you win, nothing else
even comes close to a World Cup triumph."


Chappell, the former Australian captain whose two-year term ended
with the World Cup, has refused to comment on the team, saying he
will give a written report to the Indian cricket board.


The board will hold a two-day meeting in Mumbai on Friday and
Saturday to take stock of the World Cup debacle and also decide
if Chappell's contract should be renewed.


Tendulkar is the first team member to go on record since
returning from the Caribbean last week, although other players
have also spoken to the media against Chappell on condition of
anonymity.


Indian cricket chief Sharad Pawar is expected to hear the senior
players' version of the defeat before he chairs the board meeting
where Chappell and team manager Sanjay Jagdale will present their
reports.


Pawar will also hold discussions with former captains like Sunil
Gavaskar and Kapil Dev on what to do next.


India are due to tour Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three
one-day internationals.

