

Thailand on Wednesday started the parole process for a female
prisoner whose world boxing title win in a championship bout
behind bars could also end up winning her an early release.


Siriporn Taweesuk, a convicted drug dealer known by her stage
name "Samson", beat Japan's Ayaka Miyano on Tuesday to clinch the
vacant World Boxing Council (WBC) female light flyweight title.


The fight was held at Bangkok's high-security Klong Prem mixed
prison, where the 24-year-old Thai has served nearly nine years
of a 10-year sentence for selling small amounts of drugs.


Thai prisons boss Nathee Chitsawang said the corrections
department would inform the justice ministry to start the parole
process, which could take up to two months.


"The committee will ... consider her behaviour in prison," he
told AFP. "We plan to take her on as a trainer at the prison if
she gets out."


Siriporn fought Miyano on the grounds of Klong Prem, where 700
people cheered on the local fighter, who entered the makeshift
arena accompanied by two women dressed as traditional Thai
warriors.


The Japanese fighter sauntered into the ring flanked by a pair of
women in ninja outfits, but was clearly the underdog as cropped-
haired Siriporn landed most the punches to win the 10-round bout
on points.


During the breaks, transvestites serving time at the jail
strutted around the ring in high heels and mini skirts carrying
signs announcing the next round.


A prison band added to the festive atmosphere, playing
traditional Thai folk songs which transvestites and other inmates
-- released from their cells to support Siriporn -- danced along
to before the bout began.


Organisers believe the win makes Siriporn the first inmate to
clinch a world title from prison.


To defend her title, she will next meet the winner of a fight
between Mexico's Delia Lopez and Julia Sahin from Germany.


"After we know who is the winner, we will organise the time and
place for the bout against Siriporn," a WBC coordinator said.
"But normally Siriporn would have to fight within six months."


The corrections department said earlier this week that Siriporn
could be granted early parole so that she could defend her title
overseas.


Siriporn said she was grateful to the prison department for
letting her train, and said she would like to open a grocery shop
in her hometown of Lop Buri once released from jail.


"If I was not here in the prison, I might be outside and be a
drug addict," she told reporters.


Siriporn has a record of eight wins and two losses. Her last loss
was last May against Japanese champion Nanako Kikuchi. All the
previous bouts were also in prison.


It is the third year in a row that the Thai corrections
department and the WBC have organised prison bouts in Bangkok.

