

Germany on Tuesday condemned a video showing a German woman
hostage and her son pleading for help as their Iraqi kidnappers
threatened to execute them unless Berlin withdraws its troops
from Afghanistan.


Hannelore Krause, 61, and her 20-year-old son Sinan were sobbing
and visibly distraught in the video picked up by the US-based
SITE Institute which monitors Islamist websites.


Their captors extended by 10 days the deadline for Germany to
withdraw its troops from Afghanistan or see the hostages
executed, although the exact date of the new deadline was not
immediately clear.


"It is really very difficult to watch how these people are
humiliated on video," foreign ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger
told a press briefing.


He said ministry staff had studied the video overnight.


"Many of us did not sleep much last night. We will be meeting
with the ministry's crisis team this afternoon to give our
interpretation of the video and try to draw final conclusions
about it," Jaeger said.


Germany's Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said the video
was "shocking and inhumane" adding that "all hope had not been
lost" thanks to the crisis team which he said was working on
winning the release of the pair.


Krause, who is married to an Iraqi doctor, and her son were
seized on February 6 in Baghdad where they have lived for several
years.


"I beg you, help me... I'm so afraid and we only have a few days
left," Krause wailed in the video, crying as she and her son sat
in front of a green wall rug in the video that SITE said was
posted on the al-Hesbah Internet forum.


"I'm completely at the end of my rope. I'm a complete mess," said
Krause, wearing a headscarf and black robes.


Apparently addressing her husband, Krause bawled: "You know that
I would so much love to come home. I miss you so much. Please
find some way (to help)."


SITE said the five-minute and 27-second video was produced by an
Iraqi group called "Kataeb Siham al-Haq (Righteous Arrows
Battalions)" that had threatened on March 10 to kill the Germans.


The group is seeking the withdrawal of German and Austrian forces
from Afghanistan. SITE said the video extended the ultimatum for
the withdrawal by 10 days.


Germany has nearly 3,000 troops in Afghanistan serving with the
NATO-led force and Austria has a token contingent of around five
officers.


Krause warned in the video that a failure to comply with her
captors' demands would have consequences for both countries and
her and her son.


"Germany was safe before it allied with America in this devilish
alliance against what is called terrorism," she said.


"What terrorism is this? Did the Afghani people attack Berlin and
destroy its factories? Did any Muslim explode one bomb in
Germany?"


A first deadline for the pair's execution came and went on March
20 with the German government unable to contact the kidnappers,
German television reported at the time.


Berlin has made several appeals for the hostages' release
including a message from German President Horst Koehler,
contained in a video distributed in Germany and the Arab world,
urging the kidnappers "to return the hostages to their family."


Chancellor Angela Merkel warned after meeting Afghan President
Hamid Karzai last month that Germany would not be blackmailed
into withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan.


Previous German hostages in Iraq have been released unharmed.

