

Malaysia is carefully easing back decades-old policies favouring
its ethnic majority Malays to draw foreign investment but may
face political dissent over the move, analysts say.


Malaysia since the 1970s has retained affirmative action policies
for Malays and indigenous groups known as "bumiputras" in order
to close a wealth gap with the minority Chinese community.


But in a dramatic change, Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi
last month lifted some of the policies as the country
aggressively seeks to attract much-needed foreign investment.


Under the rules, bumiputras must hold at least 30 percent of
equity in any company, and they should be the majority of
workers.


But Abdullah dropped the rules to lure foreign firms in
healthcare, tourism  and four other service sectors in the
Iskandar Development Region (IDR), a massive development in
southern Johor state that Malaysia aims to turn into a gleaming
commercial hub across from booming Singapore.


In a further relaxation last week, he agreed to allow 100-percent
foreign equity ownership in Islamic financial institutions
conducting business in foreign currencies.


Analysts say Abdullah and his government are treading softly for
fear of a political backlash from the ruling United Malays
National Organisation (UMNO) which has built a rock-solid support
base as a champion of Malay rights.


"They are trying to tone down the reality that they need to find
ways to basically go around 30 years of affirmative action," said
Wan Suhaimi Saidi, an economist with Kenanga Investment Bank.


The government had already exempted some companies, including
those in manufacturing and in a high-tech hub south of the
capital.


But in terms of stock market capitalisation and as an investment
destination, Malaysia remains a "pale shadow of itself compared
to 10 years ago," Citigroup said in October, citing the slow pace
of economic liberalisation.


Malaysia is Southeast Asia's third-largest economy but in 2005
foreign direct investment fell to 15 billion ringgit (4.3 billion
dollars) from 17.6 billion in 2004.


The country faces strong competition from regional economies
including China and Vietnam in the hunt for foreign funds,
analysts say.


"Malaysia realised that it needed to fast track on giving more
incentives to investors," said Wan Suhaimi.


"They have to do this or else they're going to lose out to other
countries like Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam,"
he said.


Jeff Hurst, executive director of the American Malaysian Chamber
of Commerce, said Malaysia's equity controls were disincentives
to investors.


"Control is key," said Hurst. "If companies have more control,
they are more apt to make larger-sized investments and are more
apt to put in higher-value operations like research and
development."


Despite concerns the affirmative action policies have bred an
over-reliance on concessions and favoured an elite, they have
been fiercely guarded by the government and UMNO, which has ruled
Malaysia since independence in 1957.


"Politically, it requires Malaysians to accept competition as a
fact of life," Shahrir Abdul Samad, a prominent lawmaker, said of
the changes.


Head of research for CLSA Securities Malaysia, Niklas Olausson,
said the government knew it had to start liberalising.


"They are taking a big-picture view of this, and whatever
political ramifications there are will be limited, because these
are measured efforts," Olausson said.


"UMNO leaders themselves can understand it's the start of the
transformation of the Malaysian economy," from one based on
manufacturing exports, to a more service-based economy, Shahrir
said.


He denied there would be any party backlash, although the IDR
project has already reportedly attracted criticism from ex-prime
minister Mahathir Mohamad, who said last week Malays would not be
able to compete with foreigners.


As a measure of the sensitivities involved, differences over the
affirmative action policies helped bog down free-trade talks
between Malaysia and the United States this year.


Malaysia repeatedly stated that the policies were "no-go" areas.


On one hand, the government knows the right policy is to
dismantle the affirmative action rules, said independent
political analyst Khoo Kay Peng.


"On the other hand, they cannot do it because they have to play
to their constituents," Khoo said. "That is a problem."

