

The double blow of an earthquake and killer tsunami that pounded
the Solomon Islands will deal another blow to the turbulent
nation's already shaky economy, experts said Wednesday.


"Certainly for a country that was struggling after the recent
troubles... this will set them back further," Pacific analyst
Damien Kingsbury told AFP. "It has cost them a great deal of
hardship."


Kingsbury, of Melbourne's Deakin University, said the Solomons
still suffered from a fractured political environment following
riots last year which were triggered by the appointment of an
unpopular prime minister.


The ensuing looting and burning of dozens of businesses owned by
ethnic Chinese caused the flight of much foreign capital and
crushed one of the bright hopes of the country's economy,
tourism.


"This is obviously just a further blow and it's going to affect
infrastructure which is both expensive and time-consuming to
repair," he told AFP.


The 8.0-magnitude earthquake that rocked the Solomons on Monday,
triggering a tsunami that killed at least 30 people and left
almost 5,500 homeless, came just as the economy began to improve,
said Pacific specialist Sinclair Dinnen.


The Solomons had largely put the lawlessness and corruption which
triggered the deployment of foreign troops and crippled the
economy in 2003 behind it, although it was struggling to build a
viable economy, he said.


"There has been a degree of stability there but in terms of the
economy... that challenge remains outstanding," he said.


"The fact remains that the Solomon Islands will continue to be
dependent on development assistance and aid for, I imagine, many
years to come."


The gross domestic product of the Solomons in 2005 stood at just
286 million dollars, with agriculture, including logging,
accounting for 42 percent, industry 11 percent and services
making up 47 percent.


The islands are also rich in mineral resources such as lead,
zinc, nickel, and gold, but they are largely undeveloped.


Dinnen, a senior fellow at the Australian National University's
School of Pacific and Asian Studies, said logging and fishing
were the mainstays of the formal economy.


But the vast majority of islanders still eke out a living from
subsistence farming and cash cropping.


Tourism remains a minor element of the economy because of the
lack of infrastructure throughout the far-flung archipelago of
more than 500,000 people, he said.


John Koldowski, of the Pacific and Asian Travel Association in
Bangkok, said tourism to the Solomons would "dry up very, very
quickly," as a result of the quake and tsunami. "It will almost
go back to zero," he said.


Koldowski said there were indications that tourism to the Pacific
nation -- famous for its white beaches, diving and World War II
wrecks -- had picked up recently.


"This couldn't have happened at a worse possible time," he said.


The experience from the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, which killed
220,000 people, was that tourism suffered sharply after such an
event but also recovered quickly, he said.


Karen Foinua, of the Solomon Islands Visitors Centre in Honiara,
said the full impact of the tsunami was not yet known but that it
had come as the country was beginning to recover tourists lost
following last year's riots.


"There was none and now it was starting to pick up. Slowly."

