

Daniel Van Buyten's goal in the third minute of stoppage time
secured a precious 2-2 draw for Bayern Munich in the first leg of
their Champions League quarter- final against AC Milan on
Tuesday.


AC Milan had appeared to be on their way to a controversial win
after Kaka had tucked away a highly dubious penalty in the 84th
minute.


But Van Buyten popped up right at the death to score his second
goal of the night as Bayern left the San Siro with two vital away
goals.


AC Milan only had a rare headed goal from Andrea Pirlo to show
for a first half of intense pressure that should have yielded
more for the six-time European champions.


Bayern made the hosts pay for their profligacy by equalising in
the 78th minute, Van Buyten prodding home from close range.


Bayern host the second leg in Munich on April 11, and the winner
will play either Roma or Manchester United in the semi-finals.


AC Milan came within inches of taking the lead in only the second
minute.


Marek Jankulovski sent over a teasing cross from the left and
found Clarence Seedorf unmarked, but the Dutchman - the only
player to have won the Champions League with three different
clubs - just failed to make contact.


Michael Rensing, deputising for suspended Bayern captain Oliver
Kahn, pulled off a fine reflex save to keep out Massimo
Ambrosini's downward header as Milan maintained the early
pressure.


The visitors, who were also deprived of tenacious midfielder Mark
Van Bommel due to a one-match ban, slowly started to open up, and
Nelson Dida had to be sharp to tip Andreas Ottl's 25-yard drive
over the bar.


Rensing pulled out off a jaw-dropping save in the 36th minute
that Kahn would have been proud.


Alessandro Nesta, whose season has been heavily disrupted due to
surgery on his injured shoulder, released Oddo down the right and
he crossed for the prowling Alberto Gilardino.


The 24-year-old, often criticised for his inconsistency, flung
himself forward but his point-blank diving header was superbly
repelled by Rensing's left hand.


Bayern finally gave in five minutes before half time.


The Bayern defence stepped up as Oddo sent over a high cross, and
Pirlo's header looped over Rensing who had strayed too far from
his line.


Jankulovski drove wide just before the interval after robbing
Daniel Van Buyten of possession.


Gilardino had a perfectly good goal ruled out soon after the
break, the linesman wrongly flagging for offside after the much-
maligned Milan striker had clipped the ball over Rensing after
running onto Kaka's pass.


Van Buyten levelled against the run of play when the Milan
defence had failed to clear Hasan Salihamidzic's cross.


But Kaka restored the lead, slotting home from 12 yards after he
went down in the box under a challenge from Brazilian
international team-mate Lucio.


Replays showed Lucio touched the ball not the player and Bayern
were fuming.


However, justice was served when Van Buyten capitalised on some
poor Milan defending to equalise with the last touch of the game.

