

Ireland's South African-born coach Adrian Birrell put aside
national allegiance to admit he thinks Graeme Smith's Proteas
have the heads and the hearts to win a first World Cup crown.


Birrell, speaking after watching South Africa cruise past his
part-time Irish team by seven wickets in the Super Eights on
Tuesday, saw enough to convince him that his compatriots can land
the title in the final on April 28.


"I may be biased because they are my team, but they are a quality
side and have played a great brand of one-day cricket," said
Birrell, who played and coached Eastern Province before taking
over as Ireland coach in 2003.


"It will all depend on their form in the coming games. If South
Africa peak at the right time and play hard, quality matches they
can go all the way. They have got every base covered and they do
every discipline very well."


South Africa's second Super Eights win, coming on the back of
their narrow one- wicket victory against Sri Lanka last week,
elevated them to fourth place in the Super Eights table and a
provisional semi-final spot.


While they ponder their chances of becoming champions, Ireland's
main concern was to take a break ahead of their next match
against New Zealand.


"The guys looked jaded against England but were sharp in the
South Africa game," said Birrell whose side, playing in the World
Cup for the first time, knocked out mighty Pakistan in the
opening round.


"We deserve some rest now. We want to recharge the batteries and
six days' rest will do us some good."


Ireland, who next meet New Zealand here on April 9, made a
fighting 158-8 in Tuesday's game which was interrupted by rain
and reduced to 35-overs-a-side.


They dismissed South Africa opener AB de Villiers in the first
over before Jacques Kallis (66 not out), aided by unbeaten 47 by
Ashwell Prince and Greame Smith's 41, rescued the situation for
the world number one side.


Ireland skipper Trent Johnston believes his team has not been
disgraced in the Super Eights, where they have also been beaten
by England.


"We had chances in both games. We had our chances against Kallis
and you have to take them against a batsman like him," said
Johnston, who dropped one the two catches that Kallis allowed.


Johnston said losing the toss in the rain-shortened game was the
key factor.


"It was a massive toss to lose," he said.


"I wanted to bowl first and it would have given us a better
chance, but having said that full credit to Boyd Rankin who gave
us another good start."


Rankin, who dismissed former Irish international Ed Joyce and
Michael Vaughan against England, took the wickets of de Villiers
and Herschelle Gibbs on Tuesday to finish with 2-26.

