

The 2008 race for the White House is in overdrive, as hopefuls
blitz key states and build multi-million-dollar war chests,
although no voter enters the equation for another 10 months.


Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Rudolph Giuliani are
cranking up the pace, each determined to face down a cast of
formidable rivals aiming to knock them from their perches atop
opinion polls.


"Things have never been this intense, this early before," said
Julian Zelizer, professor of history at Boston University. He
attributes the frenetic pace to the schedule of nominating
primaries and caucuses, which have been moved forward in many
states, and to the absence of a prohibitive front-runner.


"That combination has led to the amazing acceleration of the
campaign," he said.


Normally at this stage of the race, with the fabled Iowa caucuses
-- the first step toward Republican and Democratic nominations
set for January 14, 2008 -- candidates would be quietly building
organizations in key states.


But already, the largely rural Midwestern state hosts candidates
almost every day, as they woo activists in more than 2,000
precincts who will brave frigid winter weather to pick their
favorites on caucus night.


Clinton on Tuesday lashed President George W. Bush over Iraq,
hitting a key theme of the 2008 campaign, in the latest of her
string of Iowa visits.


"It is time for him to recognize that the American people want a
new policy," senator Clinton said as she launched a petition
warning Bush not to veto a bill passed by Congress demanding a
troop withdrawal from Iraq.


Former New York mayor Giuliani ventured into Iowa for the first
time in his campaign on Tuesday, while his fast-rising Republican
rival Mitt Romney was to hold court in the state capital, Des
Moines, Wednesday.


Democrat John Edwards, and wife Elizabeth, vowing her cancer
relapse will not scupper their White House dreams, were also in
Iowa Tuesday and Wednesday, hard on the heels of another top
Democrat, Barack Obama.


The first test of the 2008 campaign is already decided: the
"money primary," to pile up fundraising dollars before a first-
quarter 2007 fundraising deadline, was seen as a leading
barometer of a candidate's strength.


Clinton, seeking to maximize her front-runners' edge, smashed
records by raking in 26 million dollars and added 10 million from
her Senate account.


Among Republicans, former Massachusetts governor Romney sprung a
surprise, raising more than 20 million dollars and dealing a
severe blow to rival Senator John McCain, who raised 12.5 million
dollars.


Romney's success has thrust him squarely into the top tier of
Republican candidates, and raised questions about the prospects
for McCain, who looked for months to be the party's heir apparent
but tied his fate to support for Bush's unpopular policies in
Iraq.


"A lot of voters are going to look twice" at Romney," said Costas
Panagopoulos, director of the Elections and Campaign Management
Program at Fordham University, New York.


"You are going to start to see movement in the polls."


Giuliani, running on his cool-headed leadership as New York mayor
during the September 11 attacks in 2001, was happy with his 15
million-dollar take despite a late start fund raising.


So far, Republican and Democratic candidates combined have
amassed 88 million dollars, leaving in the dust the previous
record set in 2003.


That figure will likely be pushed beyond 100 million by Obama,
who reportedly raised 20 million dollars in his first financial
thrust of what could be America's first billion-dollar election.


The blue-chip roster of candidates on both sides is exploiting
the absence of a president or vice president from any part of a
presidential election for the first time in 80 years.


"The Democratic Party is stronger than ever," said Terry
McAuliffe, a veteran Democratic operative and chairman of
Clinton's campaign.


"This is the best field we have ever had."


But conservative Republicans, who helped elect Bush twice, have
yet to warm to any of their top-tier hopefuls.


Longshot contenders like devout Roman Catholic Senator Sam
Brownback or former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee are more to
their liking but lack national appeal.


That vacuum has some colorful characters, like former senator and
movie star Fred Thompson and former House of Representatives
speaker Newt Gingrich wondering whether to jump into the election
set for November 2008.

