

President George W. Bush lashed out at US lawmakers Tuesday,
warning that a fight over war funding will only hurt US troops in
Iraq and scolding Congress for going on holiday despite
unfinished business.


If Congress does not approve a war funding bill in coming weeks,
"the price of that failure will be paid by our troops and their
loved ones," Bush told reporters.


"The bottom line is this: Congress's failure to fund our troops
on the front line also means that some of our military families
could wait longer for their loved ones to return from the front
lines," Bush warned.


"And others can see their loved ones headed back to the war
sooner than they need to. That is unacceptable to me, and I
believe it is unacceptable to the American people."


Bush renewed his vow to use his presidential powers to veto a
bill which ties funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to a
timetable to end the US presence in Iraq.


Monday, Senate Democrats raised the stakes in the bitter fight,
unveiling a new bid to cut off nearly all funding for the Iraq
war after March 31, 2008 if Bush vetoes the bill they plan to
submit to the White House.


The date was set as a goal for withdrawing most combat troops in
the 122 billion war budget bill passed by the Senate.


The measure, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
and Senator Russ Feingold, would permit funding only for
operations against Al-Qaeda, training and equipping Iraqi troops,
and protecting US personnel and installations.


But Bush hit out at US lawmakers for being irresponsible, and
urged Congress to make good on its pledges of support for US
troops.


"Congress's most basic responsibilities (are) to give our troops
the equipment and training they need to fight our enemies and to
protect our nation. They're now failing in that responsibility,"
he said.


"Now they have left Washington for spring recess without
finishing the work. Democrat leaders in Congress seem more
interested in fighting political battles in Washington than
providing our troops what they need to fight the battles in
Iraq."


Democrats plan to officially unveil the new legislation on April
10 when the Senate returns from its Easter break.


Senator Hillary Clinton, who is seeking the Democratic Party's
nomination for the 2008 presidential election, urged supporters
to petition Bush to drop his veto threat.


"The American people have had enough of the president's failed
strategy in Iraq," read the message on Clinton's presidential
campaign website.


"Join Hillary in telling him to listen to the will of the people
and to Congress, withdraw his veto threat, and begin phased
deployment of the troops out of Iraq."


Reid said Monday he would aim to bring the bill back before
Senate if the president were to veto it, and Feingold told
supporters via email: "Our bill funds the troops, it just de-
funds the war."


It is a high-stakes poker game. Democrats who swept to power in
November's election still lack the large majorities in the two-
chamber Congress needed to overcome a Bush veto, and they are
depending on widespread fatigue over the war to keep the public
on their side.


The White House is also playing to the public, declaring that
Congress is giving the enemy a timetable to take over.


Negotiators in Congress are spending the current recess
reconciling the House and Senate versions of the budget bill so a
compromise version can be sent to Bush's desk for signing.


The House version of the war budget contains a withdrawal
deadline of August 31, 2008.


Vice President Dick Cheney warned on Monday the United States
faced defeat in Iraq if Democrats succeed in imposing withdrawal.


"When members of Congress speak not of victory but of time
limits, deadlines, or other arbitrary measures, they're telling
the enemy to simply watch the clock and wait us out," he said.

