

Brightly coloured new homes now dot the Indonesian province of
Aceh as it slowly rebuilds after the devastating 2004 Indian
Ocean tsunami, but some lie empty pointing to the next big hurdle
in the reconstruction effort.


Donors committed eight billion dollars to Aceh after the giant
waves tore through the staunchly Muslim province at the northern
tip of Sumatra island, killing 168,000 people.


About 1.5 billion dollars is set to be spent on housing,
including the construction of 130,000 homes.


Government figures indicate a little over 58,000 have been built,
but many lack piped water and electricity, discouraging people
from occupying them and pointing to lagging infrastructure
reconstruction.


"Coordinating infrastructure with housing is the next major
challenge," said James Adams, the World Bank's vice president for
the East Asia and Pacific region, after visiting local projects
paid for by a 650-million-dollar fund the bank oversees.


The availability of housing and essential services such as water
and power supply needed to be better aligned, he said.


The bank had been concerned about the pace of housing
construction, but Adams said he had seen evidence of significant
improvements during his early April tour, even though labour
shortages were slowing progress.


"Six months ago the basic problem was getting houses built," he
said, adding the bank had learned lessons from its experience in
the province.


"We have ... just approved a major change in our emergency policy
to give us essentially an ability to do what we've done in Aceh,
but to do it more quickly," he said.


The initiative includes the establishment of a team of emergency
experts that the bank can draw from immediately a disaster
strikes.


The infrastructure problem in Aceh is apparent in villages such
as Lhok Nga which were totally destroyed by the tsunami.


New homes have been built and a number of people have moved into
them, but others lie empty and villagers say that is partly
because they lack electricity.


Many people in Aceh also still rely on daily water deliveries
from tankers, such as those living in Tibang village, where more
than a third of residents were killed by the tsunami.


A number of infrastructure projects follow after new homes rather
than being integrated with them, complicating the reconstruction
process.


"The reality is that this is the way things had to be," said
Geoffrey Read, an engineering consultant at the bank.


Around 100 million dollars worth of projects were close to being
implemented, he added, ranging from water supply to ports and sea
defences.


A total of 300 million dollars is to be spent on infrastructure
over the next three years, with more investment likely to follow
after 2010.


Government figures show about 72,000 homes still need to be
built, with the displaced still living in cramped barracks or
forced to depend on friends and relatives.


There are complaints that some non-governmental organisations,
under pressure to build houses, have failed to deliver good
quality homes resistant to earthquakes in one of the world's most
seismically active areas.


"I don't know if my house will last. We have complained but they
say they can't do anything," said a local worker, who wished to
remain anonymous.

