

The US Environmental Protection Agency defended itself Tuesday
after the US Supreme Court ordered it to consider greenhouse
gases as pollutants.


The US high court handed President George W. Bush a defeat on
Monday, when it told the US pollution regulator it was wrong to
claim it had no jurisdiction over emissions such as carbon
dioxide, which scientists say cause global warming.


With its decision, the Supreme Court also handed a victory to
several US states, cities and environmental groups who brought
the suit.


"EPA is reviewing the court's decision to determine the
appropriate course of action," the agency said in a statement.


"The Bush administration has an unparalleled financial,
international and domestic commitment to reducing greenhouse gas
emissions," said the agency, repeating a Bush administration
justification for not adhering to the Kyoto protocol on
greenhouse gas emissions.


"The Bush administration has spent over 35 billion dollars on
climate-change programs -- more than any other country in the
world.


"The Bush administration's climate change programs are on target
to meet the president's goal to reduce greenhouse gas intensity
18 percent by 2012," said the statement, which pointed out the
Bush administration alternative to Kyoto is voluntary.


"In 2005, EPA's voluntary partnerships prevented over 85 million
metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, equivalent to the annual
emissions from over 57 million vehicles -- three times the number
of cars in the state of California," the statement said.


Bush withdrew from his predecessor's commitment to Kyoto, arguing
that the agreement would jeopardize the US economy and that some
developing economies, such as China and India, were exempt from
the Kyoto protocol signed by Bill Clinton but not ratified.


Since then, leaders in the electrical power generation industry
have approached Bush to ask what limits on carbon emissions
should be.


Carbon dioxide and methane are two of the most plentiful
greenhouse gases, so called because they gather in Earth's upper
atmosphere and, while they allow the sun's rays in, do not allow
their heat out, acting much like the glass in a greenhouse.


While this greenhouse effect is necessary for life on the planet,
Earth's temperature has been rising steadily since the industrial
revolution and has already begun to melt polar ice caps and
change weather.

