

"There was nowhere for me to run -- I run to the sea and the sea
is boiling, I run to the mountain and the mountain shakes," said
Solomon Islands shopkeeper "Aunt Aggy".


As Aggy recounts the terrifying moments when a deadly combination
of tsunami and earthquake hit her home island Gizo on Monday, two
aftershocks, one with a magnitude of 6.0, rattled the partially-
destroyed house.


"I can never go in there again, I'm too frightened it will fall
on me," Aggy told AFP from the home's forecourt, where she has
slept since Monday fearing more tremors will flatten her home
high on Gizo's highest hill.


A few kilometers away at the costal village of Tatiana, the
destructive fury of the disaster becomes clear as stunned
villagers pick through the debris of their homes searching for
anything salvageable.


Only a handful of homes in the fishing village of 600 people
remain standing. Many were swept up off their foundations by the
tsunami then smashed into palm trees more than 50 metres (yards)
away.


In scenes reminiscent of the devastating Indian Ocean tsunami of
December 26, 2004, the tidal wave in Gizo propelled fibreglass
and aluminium boats ashore and left them impossibly stranded in
trees.


More than 2,000 people in Gizo -- a former Japanese World War II
base that has became a hub for scuba divers around the world --
are living in camps dotted along the island's high ground, the
Red Cross says.


This is the only place the traumatised residents feel safe from
the threat of another deadly ocean surge, as the rolling
aftershocks drive home their ordeal.


Many of the homeless have only mosquito nets for shelter and many
old women are busy weaving mats from palm fronds so save
themselves sleeping on the bare earth as others cook around open
fires.


A makeshift roadside medical centre has been erected under
tarpaulins nearby after the island's hospital was evacuated
because the quake and tsunami made it structurally unsound.


A doctor tending to the wounded, George Jalini, issued an appeal
for desperately-needed resources, saying it was almost impossible
to prevent infections in the open-air environment and tropical
heat.


He said the hospital's pharmaceutical supplies had been lost in
the tsunami and that fresh drinking was also badly needed.


"Conditions are very, very difficult," he told AFP during a rare
moment's rest from treating about 60 patients sheltering under
tarpaulins.


The Solomons government, aid agencies and police struggled to get
water, tents and medical supplies to the remote region, with
officials saying it should begin arriving here in force later
Wednesday.


Police say that around 30 people were killed in Monday's
disaster, at least eight of them in Gizo.


But Jalini said there were some stories of miraculous escapes
which helped lift sprits in the open-air hospital.


"We had some boys who were swept out to sea but luckily for them
the current changed and they were found clinging to the top of
trees," he said.


In Tatiana, village elder Hendrik, who only uses one name, said a
group of holiday-makers had been out surfing when the tsunami hit
but somehow managed to survive the ride of their lives.


Others were not so fortunate. New Zealand citizen Teangauki Toma,
53, died as he was trying to save his elderly mother from the
family home.


"He was taken out to sea, we took his body in a coffin to send it
to his family -- a wife and six children," Uniting Church bishop
Erona Tarakabu told AFP while visiting the stricken village.


After touring the east coast of Gizo which bore the brunt of the
tsunami, Tarakabu said he expected the death toll from the
disaster to rise significantly from the 30 currently believed
dead.


"Rebuilding is going to be a long process," he said. "So many
people have lost everything."

