

Former rebel Ramzan Kadyrov will complete his ascent to power in
Chechnya on Thursday, becoming president of the war-ravaged
republic where his already vast authority may one day become
uncontrollable.


"I will swear on the Koran before my people to respect the
constitution and the Koran and be loyal to Russian and Chechen
peoples," the 30-year-old Kadyrov said during a pilgrimage to
Mecca in late March.


Supported by a dreaded militia and blessed by Russian President
Vladimir Putin, Kadyrov has been at the helm of Chechnya since
his father, former Chechen president Akhmad Kadyrov, was
assassinated in 2004.


Then named prime minister, Kadyrov easily overshadowed president
Alu Alkhanov even before the latter resigned in February.


Kadyrov has spearheaded mass rebuilding that has won over some
critics, and has cast himself as a human rights defender even
while activists accuse his private militia of kidnappings and
torture.


But for all his determination and ambition, his relations with
Moscow are not spotless, and one-person rule in Chechnya is
inevitably fragile, experts warned.


"Chechen society is profoundly split. Those who were loyal to
Moscow are now outraged that former rebels are in power," said
Alexei Malashenko, a Caucasus expert at the Carnegie Moscow
Center, noting that Akhmad Kadyrov declared jihad against Russia
during the first Chechen war in 1994-1996.


For many in Chechnya, where blood vengeance is still a way of
life, "revenge must be taken against Ramzan Kadyrov," Malashenko
said. "If he is killed, there is a risk of civil war."


Rights defenders denounce the Kadyrov personality cult that
reminds them of the darkest days of Soviet history.


"Fear and adoration rule together in Chechnya," Oleg Orlov of the
Memorial NGO said. The personality cult around Kadyrov "is
exactly like Stalin's."


Zainap Mezhidova, who heads the Nena Ortsa NGO in Grozny for
mothers whose sons disappeared, said she had seen no changes for
the better.


"Those close to the authorities are well treated. They send us
from one department to another with no results," she sighed.


Without family connections to the authorities, "it is impossible
even to find work without paying," she said.


"The essential problem is that everything happens in a lawless
context," Tatiana Lokshina of the Moscow Helsinki Group said.


She called the reconstruction "striking," but said it was
financed by a system of forced donations, and called Kadyrov's
promotion a "slap in the face for Europe" given its continuing
concerns over alleged rights violations by his militia.


"Russia is sending a message -- the debate is over, period,"
Lokshina said.


For Grigory Shvedov, chief editor of the online newspaper
Kavkazsky Uzel, there is a risk Kadyrov will become an "an
uncontrollable leader" for Moscow.


"He feels he is a tribal leader ready to defend Chechens all over
Russia," Shvedov said, recalling that Kadyrov's men have already
made incursions into the neighbouring republics of Dagestan and
Ingushetia.


"He is loyal to Putin, but it is a medieval loyalty to a man, not
to a territory," he added.


Moscow "does not trust him, especially his law enforcement
forces.... If Russian troops leave the republic, he will do as he
pleases," Malashenko said, adding that Kadyrov "controls oil
revenues and does not want to share with Moscow officials, unlike
his predecessors."


"What will his relations with the Kremlin be after Putin is gone?
That remains to be seen," Shvedov said.

