

Ukraine's parliament was dissolved and early elections were
scheduled because the crisis in the country required a "firm and
immediate response," President Viktor Yushchenko wrote in an
article published Wednesday.


Writing in the Financial Times, Yushchenko slammed arch rival
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, saying his governing coalition
"exceeded its mandate and attempted to monopolise political
power, even at the cost of violating the constitution and
ignoring" the wishes of the Ukranian people.


Pro-Western Yushchenko claimed in the comment piece that he had
tried to persuade Yanukovych, who favours stronger ties with
Russia, to govern in "a spirit of national unity and
reconciliation."


"Instead, the ruling coalition has waged a relentless campaign to
overturn both the constitutional balance of power and the results
of the last parliamentary elections ...


"It (the dissolution of parliament) is an extreme measure, but I
am also clear that the Ukrainian national interest demands it,"
Yushchenko wrote.


"Only by trusting in the wisdom of the Ukrainian people can we
break this political deadlock and create the consensus necessary
for our country to move forward again."


Yushchenko and Yanukovych were rival presidential candidates in
2004 -- a duel won by Yushchenko after the mass protests of the
"Orange Revolution" forced Yanukovych to re-run an earlier rigged
election victory.


Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament and snap
parliamentary elections for May 27 in a dramatic televised
address on Monday that followed months of political upheaval
since elections last year.


Anti-Yushchenko forces trounced the president's Our Ukraine party
at those elections and Yanukovych, head of the Regions party, was
propelled to the prime minister's seat.


The stand-off between Yanukovych and Yushchenko has been made
sharper because of constitutional reforms last year that
strengthen parliament at the expense of the presidency.


Yushchenko continued in his comment piece: "They (Yanukovych's
ruling coalition) have consistently acted in bad faith."


"Instead of respecting the agreement to share power, they have
sought to undermine it by grabbing more power for themselves at
every opportunity and with every means available ...


"These are not the actions of responsible democrats."

