

Briton Lewis Hamilton has warned his supporters not to expect
another podium finish at the Malaysian Grand Prix this weekend
following his heroic debut performance in Australia last month.


The 22-year-old driver claimed a third place finish in his maiden
Formula One outing in Melbourne, leading the race at one stage
before eventually finishing behind winner Kimi Raikkonen of
Finland and McLaren team-mate, Spaniard Fernando Alonso.


Hamilton said: "It was a dream start for me in Australia, but I
am realistic, I know that motorsport is unpredictable and things
don't always go so well.


"We have all been working to reduce the gap to Ferrari and I will
do my best with Fernando and the team towards achieving this in
Malaysia."


Hamilton's performance at the Sepang test session last week -
where he clocked the fastest time on day three - has raised
expectations that the GP2 champion will challenge for another
podium finish this weekend.


"The four days of testing were really useful on two counts,"
Hamilton said.


"We had a number of developments to the car that we ran and will
now bring to the race, and I was able to learn the track prior to
the event.


"From what I had seen of the track before arriving last week, I
thought it looked like a great circuit and I was not
disappointed.


"The layout means you can build up a great rhythm, with all the
corners running into each other. It is also really wide, which I
imagine will lead to exciting racing."


Two-time world drivers' champion Alonso is also looking forward
to racing in Malaysia this week. The former Renault driver
claimed the chequered flag here in 2005 and was a close second to
Italian Giancarlo Fisichella in 2006.


"My memories from the track are great," said Alonso. "We will try
hard to add to these this year."


The Spaniard, 25, admits the intense humidity in Sepang makes the
race one of the hardest challenges of the season, but he is
looking forward to returning to the cock-pit after a three week
break since the Australia Grand Prix.


"It is always a tough race physically, on the team as a whole and
the cars, but we are prepared for that and after what has seemed
to be a long gap after Melbourne, we all really want to get back
to racing," he added.


McLaren may have been impressive at Albert Park, but they know
they will face a stern test against the in-form Ferrari team,
with Raikkonen keen to build on his opening race success and
luckless Brazilian Felipe Massa seeking to bounce back and
justify his pre-season label among the title favourites after a
retirement in Australia.


Raikkonen is under no illusions about the importance of
maintaining his good start to the season: "We have hardly started
the championship, but it's already clear that if we want to win
the title we have to try to drive always in the points," he said.


"The Sepang race track is very difficult and demanding. If not
all of the components of the package are working perfectly, one
cannot be competitive.


"The car is running very well, but as long as we are not on the
race track, everybody under the same conditions, you can't tell.
As I always say, let's wait and see how it will work out this
time."


Raikkonen has conceded that he is worried about a slight leakage
of water from his car towards the end of the race in Australia.
If the Italian team are forced to change their engine the former
McLaren driver would be forced to start ten places back on the
grid from his qualifying position.


"There is some concern," admitted Raikkonen. "Obviously we hope
that the engine will make it through the whole weekend and that
we don't have to change it before the qualifying, because we want
to completely use our chance.


"In case we have to change it, obviously it would be a bit
different for us, everything would be much more difficult as we
had to start ten positions back. Then the aim would be to reach a
good result, the best one possible. But in any case we will give
it all."

