

The dollar gained ground Tuesday while the yen fell to one-month
lows because of renewed appetite for carry trades, or the use of
low-cost loans from Japan.


The dollar gained to 118.89 yen, its highest level since March 1,
compared with 117.83 late on Monday.


The euro was trading at 158.50 yen in late European trading from
157.50 late on Monday, after brushing up to its highest level
since February 27.


The European unit eased to 1.3329 dollars from 1.3365 dollars
late in New York on Monday.


Analysts said the soft economic news from Japan prompted market
participants to resume borrowing yen in expectation of continued
low interest rates.


A disappointing Tankan report in Tokyo "added fuel to
expectations in the market that the Bank of Japan will not raise
interest rates at its meeting April 9 and 10," said Darin Fetsko
at PNC Bank.


"With no interest rate increase in sight, investors are once
again viewing the currency as a cheap financing vehicle pushing
the yen one-month lows versus the greenback and the pound and a
10-year low versus the Australian dollar."


Carry trades are when investors borrow currencies from countries
with low interest rates, such as the yen, in order to invest in
assets in countries with higher interest rates, such as Britain
or Australia.


Typically, carry trades are detrimental for low-yielding
currencies such as the yen and beneficial for higher yielding
units.


Amid subdued euro-dollar trading ahead of US jobs data on Friday,
currency traders were also waiting Tuesday for the Reserve Bank
of Australia to announce its latest decision on interest rates,
with the Bank of England's rate decision to follow on Thursday.


Recent strong data in both countries, particularly Australia,
have raised expectations of higher interest rates.


The dollar also got a modest lift from data showing a 0.7 percent
rise in pending home sales, suggesting the troubled real estate
market might see some improvement soon.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2224 Swiss francs
from 1.2154 Monday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9738 dollars after 1.9776 late on
Monday.

