

President George W. Bush warned on Tuesday that a drawn-out fight
over war spending will only harm US troops in Iraq and scolded
Congress for going on vacation before the matter was resolved.


A day before Bush was to leave for his own Easter break, he also
repeated his vow to veto any measure that would tie the release
of more than 120 billion dollars in military spending to a
timetable for US troop withdrawal from Iraq.


If Congress does not approve a war funding bill in coming weeks,
"the price of that failure will be paid by our troops and their
loved ones," Bush told reporters.


"Congress's most basic responsibilities (are) to give our troops
the equipment and training they need to fight our enemies and to
protect our nation. They're now failing in that responsibility,"
he said.


"Now they have left Washington for spring recess without
finishing the work. Democrat leaders in Congress seem more
interested in fighting political battles in Washington than
providing our troops what they need to fight the battles in
Iraq."


Senate Democrats on Monday raised the stakes in the bitter fight,
unveiling a new bid to cut off nearly all funding for the Iraq
war after March 31, 2008 if Bush vetoes the bill they plan to
submit to the White House.


The date was set as a goal for withdrawing most combat troops in
the 122 billion war budget bill passed by the Senate.


The measure, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
and Senator Russ Feingold, would permit funding only for
operations against Al-Qaeda, training and equipping Iraqi troops,
and protecting US personnel and installations.


Democrats plan to officially unveil the new legislation on April
10 when the Senate returns from its Easter break.


Bush, meanwhile, was to have lunch with soldiers and their
families at a military base in California Wednesday before
retreating to his Crawford, Texas ranch ahead of the Easter
holiday.


"The bottom line is this: Congress's failure to fund our troops
on the front line also means that some of our military families
could wait longer for their loved ones to return from the front
lines," Bush warned.


"And others can see their loved ones headed back to the war
sooner than they need to. That is unacceptable to me, and I
believe it is unacceptable to the American people."


Senator Hillary Clinton, who is seeking the Democratic Party's
nomination for the 2008 presidential election, urged supporters
to petition Bush to drop his veto threat.


"The American people have had enough of the president's failed
strategy in Iraq," read the message on Clinton's presidential
campaign website.


"Join Hillary in telling him to listen to the will of the people
and to Congress, withdraw his veto threat, and begin phased
deployment of the troops out of Iraq."


Reid said Monday he would aim to bring the bill back before the
Senate if the president were to veto it, and Feingold told
supporters via email: "Our bill funds the troops, it just de-
funds the war."


Democrats who swept to power in November's election still lack
the large majorities in the two-chamber Congress needed to
overcome a Bush veto, and they are depending on widespread
fatigue over the war to keep the public on their side.


The White House is also playing to the public, declaring that
Congress is giving the enemy a timetable to take over.


Negotiators in Congress are spending the current recess
reconciling the House and Senate versions of the budget bill so a
compromise version can be sent to Bush's desk for signing.


The House version of the war budget contains a withdrawal
deadline of August 31, 2008.

