

Australia will not enforce a US-imposed gag on Guantanamo Bay
detainee David Hicks despite it being a condition of the plea
bargain that secured his release, Attorney-General Philip Ruddock
said.


Hicks's US military lawyer, Major Michael Mori, has said his
client could be sent back to Guantanamo if he talks to reporters.


But Ruddock said Canberra could not extradite Hicks back to the
United States if he spoke to the media because he would not be
breaking Australian law.


"In Australia, we have a position about freedom of speech,"
Ruddock told ABC television late Tuesday.


"I'll leave it to your imagination as to a way in which somebody
seeking extradition in relation to a party for breaching a so-
called gag order would be able to be delivered up through the
judicial processes in Australia."


Asked if nothing would happen if Hicks spoke to the media,
Ruddock said: "I suspect you are probably right."


Ruddock said the United States would only be able to enforce this
part of the plea bargain if Hicks was "within their reach."


Hicks, who last week pleaded guilty to giving material support to
terrorists, agreed to a plea bargain condition which prevents him
from speaking to the media for 12 months or from alleging
mistreatment while in Guantanamo.


Under the plea bargain, Hicks will be returned home within days
to serve nine months in an Adelaide prison.


But Mori said Hicks, who spent five years in Guantanamo without
charge after being captured in Afghanistan in 2001, could be
forced to serve the remainder of a seven-year suspended sentence
back in the United States if he violated the provisions of the
pre-trial agreement.


"He could potentially be brought back to Guantanamo to serve it,"
he said.


Ruddock said the only area where Australian law would apply was
if Hicks tried to benefit financially by selling his story.


The Australian government, a staunch ally of US President George
W. Bush, has denied having any hand in negotiating Hicks's deal,
which will see him back in his homeland ahead of this year's
national elections.

