

Thailand's army-installed premier on Wednesday urged business
leaders to help persuade the Thai public of the benefits of a
free-trade deal with Japan, which has been the target of street
protests.


"The Japan-Thailand Economic Partnership Agreement's success and
the benefits from it will depend on how all of you make use of
it," Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said in an address to
Japanese business leaders in Tokyo.


"It is up to you to help us persuade the public in both countries
that this is a win-win situation," he said.


Surayud spoke a day after signing the deal with Japan, the
kingdom's largest investor. The pact scraps tariffs on 97 percent
of Japanese exports to Thailand and 92 percent of Thai exports to
Japan within 10 years.


The agreement was originally negotiated by Thailand's business-
friendly elected prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whom the army
ousted in September.


The deal has triggered fresh street protests in Bangkok -- led by
activists who had campaigned against Thaksin -- charging that
Japanese companies would turn the kingdom into a dumping ground
for toxic waste.


Many foreign investors have also been wary about protectionist
policies, including controversial currency controls, pursued by
the military-appointed government.


Surayud reassured Japanese business leaders that Thailand was
stable and that he was committed to holding elections in
December.


"This trip I hope will confirm to you once and for all that we
are serious about such a commitment" to promote business, Surayud
said.


Japan has longstanding political and economic ties with Thailand.
It was the first post-coup visit to a Group of Eight nation by
Surayud, who has not travelled to any Western nations as premier.


Thai Commerce Minister Krirt-krai Jirapaet said that the kingdom
was trying to "strike balance" between liberalisation and
regulations.


"We have no intention whatsoever to erect a barrier or to provide
more restrictions," the minister told the business leaders.


"Your legitimate concern will be taken into account. That said, I
would also like to ask you to honour and respect our right to
regulate."

