

Ernie Els is hoping that some of the energy and self-confidence
that brought three Masters titles to fellow South African Gary
Player will rub off on him as he seeks his first win at Augusta.


Els makes no bones that despite two US Open titles and a British
Open crown, his stellar career will feel incomplete if he ends it
without having donned at least one green jacket.


He has played the tournament 13 times and come desparately close
twice before in 2000, when Vijay Singh was champion, and in 2004,
when he lost a memorable final-round tussle with Phil Mickelson.


This year, he has once again focused his practice time around
playing with and talking to Player, the legend who at 71 is
appearing in the tournament for a record-equaling 50th time.


"This morning we were talking about how he won tournaments
because he was the smallest guy in the field and in those days
Jack Nicklaus had the same effect on the tour as Tiger has
today," he said.


"I asked him a couple of tips on how he beat Jack every now and
again so I can hopefully use it against Tiger."


Player also provided a timely boost to Els' confidence, telling
him during their round that he had never seen him play better and
that this year was his best chance yet of finally winning the
Masters.


Els insists that his long rehabilitation from the operation on
his injured knee he underwent in July of 2005 was finally
complete and that he is ready to add to his list of major titles.


"This is one of my favorite tournaments to play, one of my
favorite golf courses in the world to play," he said.


"I'm playing well, hitting it well, feel pretty confident. I
think I'm finally normal again. But it's a four-day marathon, not
a one-day event. So I've just got to stay the course and just
keep grinding away basically."


Els is one of six South Africans taking part in this year's
tournament, all bidding to become the second Masters champion
from their country after Player, who won in 1961, 1974 and 1978.


Retief Goosen has two major titles to his name at the 2001 and
2004 US Opens but Tim Clark, Trevor Immelman and Rory Sabbatini
are still looking to break their ducks.


Together though, they have formed a united front at Augusta with
the effervescent Player the centre of attraction.


"He has meant so much to South Africa through the years," Els
said.


"Myself and Gary had had this little tradition going at Augusta
playing on the Tuesday morning. Normally we have Retief join us.
Trevor has joined us the last few years.


"It's just a little foursome, South African foursome."

