

Organisers of a proposed unofficial cricket league in India are
confident of roping in the world's top stars in a move
reminiscent of Kerry Packer's World Series Cricket three decades
ago.


"We will spare no efforts to get the big players," a source close
to Zee Telefilms told AFP a day after India's largest listed
media company unveiled a 23-million dollar plan for the rebel
series.


"We have already touched base with a few players and are in the
process of contacting others. Don't be surprised if guys like
(West Indian captain) Brian Lara play for us."


The Calcutta-based Telegraph newspaper said retiring Australian
greats Shane Warne and Glenn McGrath had been approached for the
series alongside team-mates Justin Langer and Michael Slater.


No Indian cricketer, past or present, has been linked to the
series so far.


Zee Telefilms said on Tuesday that six teams, each featuring four
international players, two Indian stars and eight upcoming
cricketers, will take part in Twenty-20 matches later this year.


Zee chief Subhash Chandra, who announced the series, declined to
name the players he had signed up for what is being regarded as a
direct challenge to the Board of Control for Cricket in India
(BCCI).


The Indian Cricket League, as the series is called, will be
expanded to one-day cricket later, said Chandra.


The proposed league, which carries a winner's purse of one
million dollars, is reminiscent of the late Australian TV czar
Packer's World Cricket Series that took on the establishment in
1977.


Packer roped in the world's top players for the rebel series
after being denied official TV rights by the Australian Cricket
Board for matches played in the country.


Similarly, Zee Telefilms was rebuffed by the BCCI in 2004 despite
being the highest bidder of 308 million dollars for Indian rights
for a four-year period.


The BCCI cancelled Zee's contract after rival ESPN-Star, a joint
subsidiary of Disney and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., challenged
the bidding process in court.


Chandra, however, denied he was looking for a confrontation with
the BCCI.


"I see no reason why the BCCI should object," he told reporters.
"We have sought the BCCI's permission to go ahead with the
league.


"It is not in conflict with the BCCI but would rather complement
its efforts to unearth a pool of talented youngsters."


But asked if he will still go ahead with the series if the BCCI
objected, Chandra said: "The Indian Cricket League is a reality,
it will be held."


The BCCI, already reeling under the national's team's first round
exit from the World Cup, was clearly not amused by Chandra's
project.


"If he (Chandra) is planning a local tournament, he can't use our
sports facilities without our permission," BCCI vice-president
Lalit Modi said.


"And if he is roping in international players, that requires the
sanction of BCCI and the International Cricket Council.


"The BCCI does not give private parties permission to do anything
like this."


BCCI secretary Niranjan Shah confirmed a proposal had been
received from Chandra which will be discussed when the board
meets in Mumbai on Friday and Saturday to take stock of the World
Cup debacle.

