

Indian game developers are rushing to sign Bollywood stars for
video games based on their films and lives, viewed by some as the
next big earner in an entertainment market driven by movie-mad
youth.


Only 40 percent of a Bollywood film's earnings come from the box
office, a study by an Indian industry body and consultancy
PricewaterhouseCoopers found, with the rest coming from music,
DVD and mobile phone ring-tone sales and soon -- the nascent
industry hopes -- from mobile game downloads.


In 2006, about two dozen Bollywood films were accompanied by
video games such as "Don" -- modelled on a movie of the same name
about an ultracool gangster played by superstar Shahrukh Khan --
compared with just three the year before.


Many more Bollywood films are expected to tie up with gaming
companies in 2007.


"The Indian market is poised for a gaming explosion," said Rajesh
Sawhney, head of Reliance Entertainment, a division of India's
biggest business house, which launched a gaming company called
Zapak in November.


Gaming based on Bollywood films and Bollywood personalities is
already estimated to be worth around 100 million rupees (2.2
million dollars, 1.6 million euros), with companies planning to
invest heavily in the sector over the next few years.


It therefore comes as no surprise that when it came to choosing a
brand ambassador, Reliance Entertainment's Zapak picked Bollywood
action hero Salman Khan.


Several games will star the muscular Khan, who promised at the
launch to help develop "wacky" concepts to keep his fans happy.


Siren Sameera Reddy, also known as Bollywood's J. Lo -- after US
star Jennifer Lopez -- and famous more for her shimmying than her
acting, is a sword-wielding streetfighter in a game developed by
Jump and named after her.


Even 64-year-old movie legend Amitabh Bachchan has a game based
on his film "Baabul" about widow remarriage. Anywhere else his
age and the subject matter would be a no-no for a videogame
concept -- but not in Bollywood-crazy India.


"We are forever looking for new games and the best way to find
new games is Bollywood films," said Neeraj Roy, head of the
Hungama Mobile portal.


Many Bollywood video games are designed for mobile phones, not
surprising in a country where cellphones, with more than 100
million subscribers, outnumber personal computers by more than
ten to one.


Although the company behind the Bachchan game, leading mobile
portal mauj.com, is charging 50 rupees (one dollar) for the game
download, many others are free for the moment.


The games also work as a marketing tool for films, at little cost
to producers, with game developers paying for the rights to
develop and promote games based on particular movies.


"As many new films are made, there are new games on them. So it
is a win-win situation for us, the Bollywood companies and gamers
at large," said Hungama Mobile's Roy.

