

A private US delegation led by New Mexico Governor Bill
Richardson will visit North Korea next week to shepherd the
return home of some US soldiers' remains, the White House said
Tuesday.


Richardson, a 2008 Democratic presidential hopeful, and
Republican former veterans affairs secretary Anthony Principi
will lead the group, which will travel there at North Korea's
invitation on April 8-11, spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


The governor has dealt with the North Koreans over a career as a
US lawmaker, ambassador to the United Nations and energy
secretary under former president Bill Clinton.


Richardson has been to North Korea five times, most recently in
October 2005, and has hosted two delegations from Pyongyang in
New Mexico, in December 2006 and January 2003.


The US military estimates that about 88,000 US servicemen and
women are missing from conflicts throughout the 20th century,
about 8,100 of them from the Korean War, but experts say only
about 3,500 can be recovered.


In May 2005, the US military suspended joint operations with
North Korea to recover the remains of US soldiers killed during
the 1950-1953 Korean War, citing concerns about safety in an
uncertain political climate.


Pyongyang declared a permanent end to such work one month later,
and US officials on Tuesday said that those joint operations
would only resume "when conditions are deemed suitable" and both
sides agree.


The delegation was to meet with North Korean officials in
Pyongyang, but Richardson's office and the White House clashed on
whether the mission was tied to the six-nation talks on
dismantling North Korea's nuclear weapons programs.


"Hopefully this trip will advance the progress made by the Bush
administration during the six-party talks to dismantle nuclear
weapons on the Korean Peninsula," said Richardson spokesman
Gilbert Gallegos.


"This effort is separate from the six-party talks and ongoing
denuclearization discussions," said an aide to US President
George W. Bush, who provided details about the trip on condition
of anonymity.


After Pyongyang, the mission will head to Seoul and then to the
border village of Panmunjom, on the cusp of the demilitarized
zone (DMZ) between the Koreas, where North Korea's Peoples Army
will transfer remains.


The delegation will head to the Yongsan US Army Garrison for a
repatriation ceremony in which the remains will be formally
returned to US custody, after which the group will return to the
mainland United States while remains will transit to Hawaii for
identification efforts.


While the White House stressed the private nature of the mission,
it said it was sending along former deputy assistant defense
secretary James MacDougall, and national security council
director for Asia Victor Cha, and other staff.


A Pentagon official said that 33 joint US-North Korea operations
between 1996 and 2005 had recovered an estimated 229 sets of
remains, of which 42 have been identified.


The United States expects to be able to recover "perhaps half, or
fewer" than the estimated 8,100 missing from the Korean War, said
the official, Larry Greer, a spokesman for the Defense
Department's POW/Missing Personnel Office.


"A huge number of them are in the DMZ, the most heavily mined
area in the world. For some, we have absolutely no data, no
evidence as to where they might be," he explained.


"Some are over water' losses. And some are already buried as
unknowns' in our national cemeteries. We believe that we can
recover perhaps 3,500 through these joint recovery efforts," he
said.

