

Cuban President Fidel Castro Wednesday charged US energy policies
could lead to a "total holocaust", in his second newspaper
article in a week, suggesting the long-convalescing leader is
returning to his former livelier self.


Writing in Granma newspaper, Castro continued on the theme of a
March 29 piece in which he said US President George W. Bush's
policy to promote ethanol fuels from farm crops was condemning
"more than three billion people" to premature starvation.


"The worst could be yet to come: a new war to ensure gas and oil
supplies, which could place the entire human race into a total
holocaust," Castro said in the latest article.


The article, entitled "The Globalization of Genocide," assailed
the US president for promoting global production of crop-based
alternative fuels, as Bush did during a trip last month to
Brazil.


It was the newest sign that the iconic 80-year-old Cuban leader
could be on the road to recovery after eight months mostly silent
and out of public sight.


Castro temporarily handed over power last July to his brother
Raul, the country's defense minister, while recovering from a
gastrointestinal operation.


In the Granma article Wednesday Castro took note of discussions
Bush held with Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva at
Bush's Camp David, Maryland retreat over the weekend, in which
the subject of promoting biofuels from food crops arose.


"This colossal waste of cereals for producing fuel ... will save
the rich countries less than 15 percent of the annual fuel
consumption of their voracious automobiles."


"Where will the poor countries of the Third World obtain the
minimal resources to survive?" Castro asked.


"Bush in Camp David declared his intention to apply this formula
around the world, which means nothing else but the globalization
of genocide," Castro said.


The two articles over the past several days have come after an
increase in comments by Cuban officials and Castro's friends that
he is recovering from his ailments, the nature of which has never
been completely clear.


Several officials have said over the past month that they
expected him to come back to work soon, and even stand for re-
election to the presidency in early 2008.


The Cuban strongman, who has led the Caribbean island for nearly
five decades, wrote in Granma that he has been spending his
recuperation period thinking about global problems like energy,
the environment and the survival of man.

