

The Bank of England is likely to keep British borrowing costs at
5.25 percent for the third month in a row on Thursday, but
analysts warned that another surprise hike was a possibility.


The BoE has raised rates three times since August last year, most
recently with a surprise hike in January, as it fights above-
target annual inflation.


Of the 32 economists polled by financial newswire AFX News, eight
expected the BoE's nine-strong Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to
hike the key repo rate -- at which the central bank lends to
commercial banks.


"It is not impossible that the MPC will sanction higher rates,"
said Investec economist Philip Shaw, who is calling for no change
before a likely quarter- point hike in May.


Minutes from the MPC's March meeting showed that policymakers had
voted 8-1 to keep rates on hold partly because of volatility
across global financial markets.


With calmer market conditions, MPC members will concentrate this
week on the outlook for economic growth and inflation when they
begin two-day deliberations on Wednesday, analysts said.


"We still expect the Bank of England to lift interest rates to
5.50 percent in May as a precautionary measure aimed at
containing medium-term inflation risks," added Global Insight's
Howard Archer.


"Indeed, we believe there is around a 30 percent chance that the
MPC will act as soon as Thursday."


The central bank opted for no change last month, sticking to its
wait-and-see approach after British annual inflation fell heavily
in January.


However, inflation bounced back in February, in part owing to
higher air fares, reaching 2.8 percent.


Shaw added: "The various uncertainties suggest that the MPC will
become more reliant on its quarterly inflation report analysis,
pointing to a May move."


In its February report, the BoE said it expected British annual
inflation to drop below its 2.0 percent target over the next 12
months, assuming that interest rates rose to 5.50 percent.


Meanwhile, Britain's economy expanded faster than previously
thought last year, despite a downward revision to fourth-quarter
growth, according to official data.


The economy grew by 2.8 percent in 2006 compared with 1.9 percent
2005, which was faster than the previous estimate of 2.7 percent.


"The stronger tone of the data over the last month suggests that
the case presented in February's inflation report for a further
interest rate hike still stands," said Vicky Redwood, an
economist at Capital Economics.


She added: "Another rate rise still looks likely, probably in
May. But with the markets having settled down again, there is a
chance it could happen at April's meeting."


British inflation had shot up to 3.0 percent in December, above
the BoE's government-set target of 2.0 percent, and the highest
level since Labour came to power in 1997.

