

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jaywardene admits Sanath Jayasuriya's
decision to put his Test match retirement on hold could be the
decisive factor in his country's World Cup bid.


The 37-year-old Jayasuriya briefly retired from Tests last year
before changing his mind and returning to the ranks.


Despite his age, the veteran of the 1996 World Cup winning team
is enjoying a new lease of life in the Caribbean and looked near
his best during his 115 against West Indies on Sunday, his 25th
one-day century.


"We felt when you come into a World Cup year it's important you
play all the matches. When you play all the time it keeps you
going so it probably was a good decision for him to come back and
play Test cricket as well," said Jayawardene.


"He's been brilliant. He's working harder, he's enjoying his
cricket and he played some really good innings, not just the one
you saw against the West Indies. He keeps going, that's the
character of the guy."


Sri Lanka, who were facing England in their latest Super Eights
match at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium on Wednesday, are being
tipped as potential World Cup winners with their exciting mixture
of youth and experience.


Jayawardene, whose side crushed England 5-0 last year, believes
that tour, where they also drew the Test series 1-1, was a
crucial staging point in the squad's development.


"It was a brilliant tour for us but we've come a long way. From
that start in England we've pushed on and played some really good
cricket," said Jayawardene.


"The youngsters learnt a lot from that England trip. From there
onwards guys like (fast bowler) Lasith Malinga and (opening
batsman) Upul Tharanga have come up pretty well."


The 2006 series in England culminated in an emphatic eight-wicket
win at Headingley where Tharanga (109) and Jayasuriya (152)
shared a world record first-wicket stand of 286 as Sri Lanka won
with more than 12 overs to spare.


Jayawardene, who said that series had been the launch-pad for a
run of form that has seen Sri Lanka tipped to repeat their 1996
World Cup triumph here, said he didn't expect last year's series
to have too much of a bearing now.


But he warned: "It depends if England is thinking about it."


"For us it's not an issue because we are playing in different
situations, different tournament, different conditions and
probably different personnel as well. Things have changed since
we played England."


Sri Lanka enjoyed a crushing 113-run victory against hosts West
Indies in Guyana on Sunday and Jayawardene, who scored a morale-
boosting 82 in that match, said: "The mood is pretty good. The
way we played against West Indies was very satisfying.

