

Khun Sokha looks on while camera flashes pop in the pre-dawn
haze, as hundreds of tourists perch along the outer wall of
Cambodia's Angkor Wat waiting to catch that moment when the sun
rises over the temple's distinctive towering spires.


Over the next few hours, those hundreds will multiply to
thousands, largely free to wander in and out of the temple ruins,
probing dark corners, climbing over fallen stones or tracing the
delicate bas reliefs with their hands.


"The ancients built the temples for religious purposes, not for
such crowds of tourists to climb on," says Khun Sokha, a tour
guide whose job depends on the vast crowds swarming Cambodia's
Angkor National Park in rising numbers each year.


"The harm is obvious. We are worried, but the people's livelihood
depends on these tourists," he adds.


Like Khun Sokha, Cambodia's government is at odds over what to do
with its most famous landmark.


Angkor is at the very heart of Cambodia's identity, and with
nearly two million tourists coming to the country last year --
more than half of them visiting Angkor -- it is recognising the
need to keep these precious ruins intact.


"The harm to the temples is unavoidable when many people walk in
and out of them," says Soeung Kong, deputy director-general of
the Apsara Authority which oversees Angkor's upkeep.


But at the same time, it is also hard to ignore the nearly 1.5
billion dollars in revenue that tourism brought to the
impoverished country last year, forcing officials into a delicate
balancing act.


"We are trying to keep that harm at a minimal level," Soeung Kong
tells AFP.


Just over 7,600 visitors ventured to Angkor in 1993, when it was
added to UNESCO's World Heritage List.


Since then, tourist arrivals have risen meteorically, with the
government hoping for three million visitors to Cambodia by 2010.


The intimacy offered by Angkor -- the close interaction with its
historic stones -- is a large part of its appeal.


But when multiplied over millions of visitors, the effects can be
alarming.


"When you have such a huge mass of tourists visiting then we are
concerned about damage to the heritage site and the temples and
the monuments," says Teruo Jinnai, UNESCO's top official in
Cambodia.


"Many temples are very fragile," he says, adding that the agency
is working with the government to minimise the impact of the
tourism boom.


Names and other graffiti are gouged into temple walls and
unsightly wooden steps have been constructed over some stone
staircases that have become worn with over-use.


In some temples, visitors have been prevented completely from
coming into contact with delicate wall carvings.


However, the battle to preserve Cambodia's temples won't
necessarily be fought in their stone breeze-ways and intricately-
carved sanctuaries.


Rather, the bigger threat comes kilometres (miles) away, along
Siem Reap town's increasingly congested thoroughfares, where more
than 250 guesthouses and hotels, including several sprawling
resorts, have sprung up in recent years.


Some 500 years after a failing irrigation system forced Angkor's
rulers to abandon the sprawling Khmer capital, a lack of water is
again threatening Cambodia's most famous temple complex.


Just as the ancient city's waterways collapsed under the demands
of a population of as many as a million people, an unprecedented
tourism boom is again sucking the area dry and risking the
collapse of many of Angkor's temples.


The sinking foundation and widening cracks between the carefully
carved stones of Bayon temple, famous for the serene faces carved
on its 54 towers, confirm what experts have long feared; one of
Angkor's best known monuments is collapsing into the sandy ground
around it.


This is caused by the unrestricted consumption of ground water by
Siem Reap's hotels, whose enormous demand is destabilising the
earth beneath the Angkor complex.


"Some hotels have 10 wells -- thousands of cubic metres of water
are being pumped out each day," Khun Sokha says.


The coming dry season, when temperatures can hover at a
blistering 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) for days,
is only going to worsen the situation.


"Most of the hotels have underground wells. We have warned them
not to pump out more than 8,000 cubic metres (10,500 cubic yards)
per day, especially during the dry season," Soeung Kong says.


"As long as the number of tourists increases, the use of water
increases. This is our concern, but we are not standing still, we
are trying to make a balance between use of water and tourists,"
he adds.


But UNESCO's Jinnai estimates that on average Siem Reap needs at
least 15,000 cubic metres a day to meet demand.


Japan is developing a plan to supply the area with nearly half of
that, but questions remain about whether the total supply will
keep pace with the town's relentless expansion.


"The construction of hotels is booming. We cannot ban the rich
people from building accommodations," said Kuy Song, director of
Siem Reap's tourism office.


But, he adds: "The future of the temples is really worrisome."

