

Oil prices turned lower in Asian trade Wednesday on hopes Britain
and Iran will find a diplomatic solution to a stand-off sparked
by Tehran's detention of 15 British personnel, dealers said.


As Britain awaits Iran's response to its proposal for direct
bilateral discussions, Iran's parliament speaker welcomed what he
described as a "change of tone" from London over the row.


"London's action in changing its propaganda tone regarding the
issue of the arrest of the British sailors in our territorial
waters is appropriate," Gholam Ali Hadad Adel said.


At 3:20 pm (0720 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 16 cents to 64.48
dollars a barrel from 64.64 dollars a barrel in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May fell 11 cents to 67.70 dollars.


"The market is trending down, reflecting the easing tensions with
regard to the situation in Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"The level of rhetoric between the UK and Iran has been lowered
and there are expectations that a peaceful diplomatic solution
will come about."


Shum said prices are likely to fall further if the sailors and
marines, captured on March 23, are released.


Mitsubishi Corp's Tokyo-based energy risk manager Tony Nunan
cautioned however that this did not mean tensions would
necessarily ease quickly, noting that Iran remains under
international pressure over its nuclear programme.


Oil prices have risen over the past week on concerns that Iran,
the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, could move to cut its
exports should the crisis with Britain escalate.


Iran's detention of 15 British sailors and marines has further
poisoned relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested uranium- enrichment programme.


Uranium is a key ingredient for a nuclear bomb but Iran says its
research is meant for peacful purposes.


To resolve the row over the detained British personnel, Britain
has proposed "direct bilateral discussions" and was waiting for
Iran's response.


Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, said the new contacts
could create the conditions for ending the stand-off.


Iran insists that the 15 marines and sailors were captured
because they had illegally entered Iranian waters. Britain claims
they were taken while in Iraqi waters.


Meanwhile, the market is looking ahead to the US Department of
Energy  weekly report on energy stocks to be released later
Wednesday.


Analysts are forecasting a drop in gasoline (petrol) and
distillate stocks and a build in crude.


Gasoline inventories, which have been falling for the past few
weeks amid growing demand ahead of the peak US driving season,
will be a key figure.


"The refineries are coming out of the spring maintainance season
... we can expect to see a build in gasoline in the next few
weeks and fears of insufficient gasoline supply will be
alleviated," Nunan said.

