

A US video journalist who was jailed for a record 223 days after
refusing to hand over footage of a violent demonstration was set
to be freed on Tuesday, his lawyer said.


Josh Wolf, 24, was due to be released from a detention centre in
Dublin, northern California, after a San Francisco judge granted
a motion to vacate a contempt of court order made last year.


"We made a motion to vacate and the judge granted it," said
Wolf's lawyer Martin Garbus. "We expect Josh to be released
today. He's fine."


Wolf's footage was of a protest in 2005 in which a police officer
suffered a fractured skull and a squad car was damaged by an
explosive device, media reports have said.


Wolf sold the film to a nightly news program. The broadcast was
spotted by local and federal law enforcement agents who
subpoenaed the independent journalist to release unpublished
footage.


When Wolf refused to comply with the demand he was charged with
contempt of court and imprisoned.


Tuesday's ruling came after Wolf uploaded the footage to his
website in a compromise deal with federal authorities.


"Josh has released the video tape on his website and a copy has
been sent to the district attorney," Garbus said. "He had refused
to identify anyone in the video-tape."


Wolf explained his decision to finally release the footage in a
statement on his website, www.joshwolf.net.


"During the course of this saga I have repeatedly offered to
allow a judge to be the arbiter over whether or not my video
material has any evidentiary value," Wolf wrote.


"Today, you the public have the opportunity to be the judge and I
am confident you will see, as I do, that there is nothing of
value in this unpublished footage."


Garbus cautioned that while Wolf was in "fine spirits," he had
only been released after 223 days in custody. "It's hardly a
great victory," he said.


The previous record for a US journalist jailed for contempt of
court was held by Vanessa Leggett, who was incarcerated for 168
days in 2001 and 2002 after refusing to hand over information
about a murder case.

