

Gaudencia, a Kenyan woman in her fifties, works barefoot
preparing her fallow field for sowing corn. Until two years ago,
she had no idea leaving the land untilled some seasons could reap
a better harvest.


"It was not enough to feed the whole family before. But now it
is," said the woman in her late fifties, wiping beads of sweat
off her forehead.


Gaudencia's village of Sauri, near Lake Victoria in the rolling
hills of southwest Kenya, gives no hint of its international role
in fighting extreme poverty, but it is the world's first
Millennium Village.


As such, it benefits from advice and funding as part of a project
begun in mid-2004 to test the Millennium Development Goals --
targets for reducing poverty by 2015, agreed on by all the
countries of the world in 2000.


Some 400,000 people in 80 villages in 10 African countries are
now involved in the bid to show whether the much-hyped Millennium
targets are indeed achievable with human resources and
investment.


Two years ago, Gaudencia started taking free farming lessons. She
learned how to sow seeds in lines instead of scattering them
randomly, why to leave fields fallow and how to use fertilizer.


After her last harvest, she had enough to sell a sack of corn for
the first time in her life and made 1,200 shillings (17 dollars,
13 euros). It was a breakthrough, but still not enough to pay for
schooling for two of her three children.


Her neighbour Edward Oyier, in his sixties, is a step ahead. He
can now send the five orphans he looks after to school after
earning 10,000 shillings (145 dollars, 109 euros) in 2006 for
selling part of his harvest.


It was a good sale for a resident of Sauri, where three-quarters
of the population live on less than one dollar per day.


"I have surplus of food. Before, it (the harvest) was from hand
to mouth. Now it is also going from hand to bank," Oyier said.


As part of the Millennium project he has to give part of his
harvest to village schools, where results and attendance have
improved since the creation of a free canteen.


"From 2005 to 2007, the number of pupils increased from 500 to
750. It is due to the feeding program and the good performances
of the school," said Joseph Lanyo, headmaster of the Bar Sauri
primary school.


"Before, children were sleepy because of empty stomachs," he
added.


The school has risen in a district ranking from 198th place out
of 390 in 1999 to ninth place in 2006.


"We're looking forward to clinching the first position. It's our
prayer," said Lanyo, laughing, as dozens of children in blue and
white uniforms queued in red soil at the outside canteen for
dishes of peas and cabbages.


Nearby, two cows chewed grass next to the playground. They were
bought for the project and their milk feeds the youngest children
at the school.


Despite the programme, Sauri clearly needs further improvements.


Some 100 children fill up a leaky classroom in the nursery
school. Another is deserted because it has no roof.


"I would have liked the Millennium (village project) to improve
the facilities," especially the school, said senior village elder
Martin Onando.


But he accepted that the project could not solve all their
problems and recognised that it helped everyone in the community
in some way.


The project provided mosquito nets to some 5,000 Sauri
inhabitants, while a clinic offering free care and medicine has
also opened.


Food production has tripled in three years and malaria has
dropped by 75 percent in the past year, said Glenn Denning,
director of the Millennium Development Goals centre for East and
Southern Africa.


"Everybody is able to produce and to eat. Vandalism cases have
reduced drastically. Right now, there can be a whole week where
no kids miss school because of malaria. I attribute that to the
mosquito nets and the drugs."


Now it is up to the Kenyan government to maintain the
improvements that have been achieved, he said.


"The government has to make its own contribution. It is a big
myth to say that the private sector will do the job. A private
sector cannot flourish without good infrastructures and good
schools," Denning said.


"If in five years, people are more healthy, the water is clear,
you reduce pressure on health services."


But he added that donors would need to continue to give their
support on a decreasing basis for many years to come.


Some 1,300 people have moved to Sauri in the past two years to
join those already benefiting from the village's success,
according to Patrick Mutuo, the project's coordinator.


There are now plans to join with neighbouring villages to create
a Millennium district, if they can gather extra funding, he said.

