

PSV boss Ronald Koeman said he would have to come from another
planet to believe his side could still progress to the Champions
League semi-finals following a 3-0 home defeat to Liverpool.


Koeman's injury-hit side could not reproduce the controlled
performance that saw them eliminate Arsenal in the previous round
as they crashed spectacularly in the Champions League quarter-
final first leg at the Philips Stadium on Tuesday night.


Goals from Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard, Norwegian John Arne
Riise and lanky striker Peter Crouch eased the 2005 champions to
a convincing victory that firmly planted one foot in the next
round of the competition.


"I don't think it's realistic to think we can win it over there,"
admitted Koeman.


"If I could make the players believe they can make it to the next
round then I don't belong on this planet."


Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez was a little more guarded,
although it was clear that he too believes the tie is effectively
over and he can start making preparations for an eventual semi-
final against either Chelsea or Valencia.


"We knew what to do and that was the key for me. We knew they had
(injury) problems and we needed to do the right things," said
Benitez.


"We made the most of their mistakes and to score three goals and
keep a clean sheet is almost perfect.


"But we must be careful because we said before the match that
there is no room for complacency."


Liverpool had made that mistake a year ago when they landed what
seemed to be the plum tie of the first knock-out round in facing
Benfica.


It seemed the easiest tie on paper but the Portuguese - who were
then managed by Koeman - won 1-0 at home and then shocked
Liverpool 2-0 at Anfield for a convincing 3-0 aggregate victory.


PSV came into this match in poor form domestically since the turn
of the year - they had won only three of their last nine league
games and had not won in any competition since March 3.


But they put out Arsenal in the last round and Koeman deployed
the same tactics that thwarted Arsene Wenger's team at the
Philips stadium again here on Tuesday.


But what worked against Arsenal's free-flowing attacking football
proved impotent against Liverpool's more powerful and direct
system.


Koeman refused to admit he had made a mistake, despite beginning
the game with defensive midfielder Mika Vayrynen as his sole
striker while former Barcelona hitman Patrick Kluivert - a
Champions League winner with Ajax in 1995 - warmed the bench.


"We started the same as we did against Arsenal. Only (Phillip)
Cocu and (Timmy) Simons were playing in different positions
because of injuries.


"When you lose you can always argue that it was wrong. The attack
didn't have enough quality to trouble Liverpool. It was not a
question of tactics, we just didn't have any other options."


PSV were missing star striker Aruna Kone of the Ivory Coast and
pivotal Brazilian centre-back Alex. They also lost flying
Peruvian winger Jefferson Farfan to a hamstring injury at the
break, but Koeman's decision to replace him with Chinese full-
back Sun Xiang when his side were already 1-0 down, seemed
baffling.


It meant they had only one offensive player on the pitch in
Brazilian right- winger Diego Tardelli.


Koeman only brought on Kluivert - admittedly far from the top
class striker that once shone for Ajax and Barcelona - when his
team fell 2-0 behind.


By that stage, Gerrard had headed home a Steve Finnan cross on 27
minutes and Riise pounced on a Simons mistake after 49 minutes to
rifle home a left-foot volley from 25 yards.


Crouch wrapped up the scoring on 63 minutes, heading home simply
from another Finnan cross from the right.

