

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi holds talks with Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad on Wednesday on a two-day trip to Damascus that
has infuriated the White House.


US President George W. Bush said Pelosi's visit sent "mixed
signals" that harmed his administration's efforts to isolate
Assad's regime over its alleged support for terrorism and
accusations of meddling in Iraq and Lebanon.


Pelosi, the most senior US official to visit Damascus in years,
smiled and shook hands with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem
on her arrival and later toured a souk and a mosque in the
capital.


But Bush condemned the visit by Pelosi, a leading Democrat and
ardent opponent of the Republican US president.


"Photo opportunities and/or meetings with president Assad lead
the Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of
the international community, when, in fact, they're a state
sponsor of terror," Bush told reporters in Washington.


Syria is "helping expedite, or at least not stopping, the
movement of foreign fighters from Syria into Iraq," Bush charged,
adding that Damascus has "done little to nothing to rein in
militant Hamas and Hezbollah" and worked to "destabilise the
Lebanese democracy."


"We have made it clear to high-ranking officials, whether they be
Republicans or Democrats, that going to Syria sends mixed
signals, signals in the region and, of course, mixed signals to
President Assad," Bush said in his first public remarks on the
visit.


"The position of this administration is that the best way to meet
with a leader like Assad or people from Syria is in the larger
context of trying to get the global community to help change his
behaviour," he said.


The United States withdrew its ambassador from Syria after the
February 2005 assassination of former Lebanese premier Rafiq
Hariri, in which a UN investigation has implicated Syrian
officials despite Damascus's denials.


Washington had already imposed economic sanctions on Damascus in
2004, accusing Syria of harbouring terror groups, backing
insurgents in Iraq and meddling in Lebanon.


Pelosi has shrugged off the administration's criticism and
insisted her talks with Assad were key to renewing a dialogue on
Iraq and Lebanon.


"Our trip to Syria is one that is important to us ... (and) is
part of our responsibility for the national security of the
United States," she said in Beirut on Monday.


She insisted that it falls in line with the bipartisan Iraq Study
Group, which the Bush administration to engage foes Damascus and
Tehran in the search for solutions to the crises in Lebanon and
Iraq.


She said that during her visit "we will be talking about the
overarching issue, the fight against terrorism and the role that
Syria can play to help or to hinder that role."


Pelosi also noted that three politicians from the president's
Republican party visited Damascus on Sunday.


The top Democrat is also expected to transmit to Syria Israel's
views on the long-stalled peace process with Damascus, which
demands the return of the Golan Heights seized by the Jewish
state in 1967.


Syria's state news agency SANA said Pelosi's talks will focus on
"Syrian- American relations as well as regional issues" while
government newspapers hailed the visit as an attempt to re-
balance US policy in the region.


"American legislators, Democrats as well as Republicans, are
aware that US policy in the region, especially the war in Iraq
and its ties with Syria, is a fiasco that must be repaired," said
Tishrin.


Syria "is ready for serious and sincere dialogue with the US
officials."


The English-language Syria Times described Pelosi as a "brave
lady" on an "invaluable" mission.


The Syrian ambassador to Washington, Imad Mustafa, told Tishrin
that Pelosi's visit was "a positive step ... in the framework of
a calm dialogue" between the two countries.


"We may differ politically but we must remain involved on the
diplomatic front in a dialogue in order to reach some
understanding," he said.

