

Political turmoil raged on in Ukraine Wednesday, after President
Viktor Yushchenko pressed ahead with plans to dissolve parliament
and hold early elections while his opponents vowed to take to the
streets in protest.


Crisis talks Tuesday between Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych failed to yield a compromise between the two rivals,
even after Ukraine's government and parliament voted to defy the
president's orders.


The presidential office said in a statement that Yushchenko had
informed the European Union's foreign policy chief Javier Solana
of his intention to hold snap elections.


But Yanukovych, who favours ties with Russia, said pro-Western
Yushchenko had made "a fatal mistake" in issuing an order
dissolving parliament on Monday after months of political
impasse.


Hundreds of anti-Yushchenko activists meanwhile camped out
overnight in central Kiev to protest against the president and
vowed to hold a mass protest on Wednesday.


"No to the Division of Ukraine!" and "The Constitution is the Law
for Everyone!" read placards posted up by the activists outside
more than 200 tents set up near the parliament building and on
Independence Square.


On Tuesday, Yanukovych called on the president to rescind the
dissolution order for the sake of stability in the country and
threatened otherwise to force an early presidential election.


Yushchenko and Yanukovych faced off as presidential candidates in
2004 -- a duel won by Yushchenko after the mass protests of the
Orange Revolution against Yanukovych's rigged election victory.


The growing political turmoil in this former Soviet republic
prompted expressions of concern from the European Union, Russia
and the United States -- with all three calling for a peaceful
resolution to the crisis.


Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament and snap
parliamentary elections for May 27 in a dramatic televised
address on Monday that followed months of political upheaval in
Ukraine since elections last year.


Anti-Yushchenko forces trounced the president's Our Ukraine party
at those elections and Yanukovych, head of the Regions party, was
propelled to the prime minister's seat.


The stand-off between Yanukovych and Yushchenko has been made
sharper because of constitutional reforms last year that
strengthen parliament at the expense of the presidency.


In the night after Yushchenko's announcement, lawmakers from the
pro-Russian parliamentary majority voted to dissolve the central
electoral commission and block election funding in order to
prevent fresh elections.


At a stormy cabinet meeting following the parliament vote,
Defence Minister Anatoly Grytsenko, a Yushchenko supporter, broke
with the rest of the cabinet to back the president, saying the
Ukrainian army would follow his orders.


Anti-Yushchenko activists have warned about the possibility of
the use of force but the president ruled this out on Tuesday,
saying in a statement that his "conflict" with Yanukovych was
purely political in nature.


The protests in Kiev, which came after mass demonstrations on
Saturday, were reminiscent of the 2004 Orange Revolution that
brought Yushchenko to power and distanced Kiev from Moscow for
the first time in the post-Soviet era.


The rise of the pro-West president and his ambitions for NATO
membership raised anxieties in Russia that the United States
would hold sway over a traditional ally in Moscow's former
empire.


Parliamentary elections last year changed the political landscape
in Ukraine, however, handing considerable power to Yanukovych and
giving his pro-Moscow coalition control of 250 of the 450 seats
in Ukraine's parliament.


The stand-off between Yushchenko and Yanukovych supporters also
reflects deep divisions between Ukraine's predominantly Russian-
speaking industrial east and the Ukrainian-speaking agricultural
west.


Also many Ukrainians believe Yushchenko has failed to live up to
his promises of a better economic future for the country and has
needlessly antagonized Russia, Ukraine's main trading partner.

