

A Security Council meeting on Kosovo here Tuesday laid bare deep
divisions over UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari's plan to grant
supervised independence to the breakaway Serbian province.


Ahtisaari briefed the 15-member body on his recommendations,
unveiled last week, for the future status of the Albanian-
majority province.


His plan has already been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians, the
European Union and the United States but is strongly opposed by
Belgrade and Moscow, a veto- wielding, permanent council member.


The council also met informally and separately with Serbian Prime
Minister Vojislac Kostunica and Kosovo's ethnic Albanian
president Fatmir Sejdiu.


Kostunica again explained why Belgrade was adamantly against the
Ahtissari plan, charging that it violates the UN charter by
harming the territorial integrity of a member state as well as a
UN Security Council resolution on the need to ensure democratic
standards in the disputed province.


He called for new negotiations to reach a compromise between
Kosovo's Serbs and Albanians "taking into account the territorial
integrity and sovereignty of existing states and offering
substantive autonomy to enable Kosovo to develop its future
without violating the UN charter."


But US acting ambassador Alejandro Wolff dismissed suggestions
that the Ahtisaari plan violated the UN charter, saying Kosovo
was a "unique situation" involving a territory under UN rule for
the past eight years.


British Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry told reporters that Tuesday's
meeting marked the start of a lengthy process expected to
culminate in a council ruling on Kosovo's future status.


He said that while there would be further council consultations
on the issue this month, it would be first up to capitals of the
Contact Group on Kosovo to first decide whether to introduce a
resolution endorsing the Ahtisaari plan.


The Contact Group brings together Britain, France, Germany,
Italy, Russia and the United States.


Jones Parry also said the council would decide in the coming days
whether to undertake a fact-finding mission to Kosovo and
Belgrade as requested by the Russian delegation.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


The British envoy conceded that the council discussions reflected
"tension between territorial sovereignty, a threat of
dismemberment of a nation state and on the other hand the whole
question of self-determination."


Ahtisaari meanwhile rejected suggestions that he would be asked
to terminate his mission and said he remained available to both
UN chief Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council.


He also warned that "tinkering with some of the elements in the
proposals I made" would make it impossible to implement the plan.


Sedjiu for his part insisted that Ahtisaari had produced "a fair
and very balanced package" and expressed regret that no agreement
with Kosovo Serbs had been possible.


"We believe that the only viable outcome of the Kosovo status
process is independence, subject to a period of international
supervision," he said. "Kosovo stands ready to accept and
implement the proposal in its entirety."


He said Kosovo's ultimate objective was full membership in the
European Union and in NATO.


French Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere said the Ahtisaari
blueprint "represents not only a balanced solution but also ...
the only realistic option."


"To keep the status quo is not an option," the French envoy said.
"What is at stake is the stability of Europe. This is the
completion of the process of the breakup of the former
Yugoslavia."


Under Ahtisaari's plan, Kosovo would adopt a constitution within
120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time the
mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo would end.


General and local elections would be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.

