

South Asian leaders were to wrap up a two-day summit Wednesday
setting the fight against terrorism and stronger trade as
priorities for a region that is home to nearly 1.5 billion
people.


Diplomats and officials admitted however that differences between
India and Pakistan, who have fought two of their three wars over
Kashmir, looked likely to once again water down any final
declaration.


India led the cry to "root out terrorism" if the fortunes of the
South Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) were to be
revived.


And the eight member nations agreed that real economic progress
in South Asia -- home to half the world's poor -- was impossible
without conquering security issues.


"The wording of the final declaration is being worked out. But
fighting terrorism will definitely be in the joint declaration"
to be issued Wednesday, said an Indian foreign ministry official,
who declined to be named.


This was because "seven out of eight SAARC countries have
identified terrorism as a major problem," he said.


A South Asian diplomat said it was unclear whether officials from
Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka would "agree on a mechanism to combat the
menace" of terrorism.


Pakistan stuck to its guns with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz
stressing that open trade with India depended on a solution for
Kashmir, which is divided between the two rivals and subject to a
slow peace process.


The ministry official said the final declaration would include
boosting trade --- which has remained at a paltry five percent of
the countries' total commerce -- through increased connectivity
and improved infrastructure.


India did announce Tuesday duty-free access for its smaller South
Asian neighbours and a more liberal visa regime.


"There should be some reference in the joint statement about the
effective implementation of the South Asian Free Trade Agreement
(SAFTA)," that was agreed in 2006, the official said.


But until India and Pakistan can agree on Kashmir, trade looks
set to remain severely limited.


SAARC, created in 1985 to speed economic development and trade,
has made little progress, largely because of bickering among
member states -- particularly India and Pakistan.


New Delhi had set the fight against terrorism as the priority
from the outset at Tuesday's opening session with Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh urging member states to implement earlier pledges
made "to root out terrorism."


Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse and Afghanistan's
President Hamid Karzai were quick to echo the call.


"The real problem regarding implementation of earlier conventions
on terrorism has been the serious political differences and
tensions between member states like for instance India and
Pakistan," said former Indian diplomat Krishna V. Rajan.


"The same can be said about Pakistan and Aghanistan," added
Rajan.


Security analyst C.Uday Bhaskar said "the orientation of some
states towards terrorism is going to be the biggest challenge in
terms of how the declaration emerges on Wednesday.


"SAARC has also found it difficult to implement earlier promises
to combat terror because the members had different definitions,"
he noted.

