

Aid agencies and officials appealed Wednesday for urgent supplies
of water, shelter and medicine for isolated towns and villages
devastated by the Solomon Islands tsunami.


The call came after thousands of people slept outdoors on high
ground for a second night after Monday's disaster, with
assistance starting to trickle out to victims.


Aircraft and ships loaded with food, water, tents and other
emergency supplies headed for the remote islands east of
Australia where at least 30 people were killed and 5,400 made
homeless.


Tim O'Connor, spokesman for charity organiastion Caritas
Australia, warned the situation could quickly become critical.


"When food starts to dry up and drinking water is exhausted or
begins to be contaminated in two or three days, then we could
start seeing real problems," O'Connor said.


Local volunters in the makeshift refugee camps around the town of
Gizo told AFP there was a desperate shortage of equipment and
supplies.


The Western provincial hub of Gizo, with a population of about
20,000, was one of the worst affected areas, lying just 45
kilometres (28 miles) from the epicentre of the 8.0-magnitude
quake which triggered the tsunami.


Local residents said the only aid they had received so far were
some medical supplies which arrived on a police patrol boat on
Tuesday.


Fresh water supplies from wells have been contaminated and most
people have no tents or tarpaulins for shelter.


Even those who have homes to return to are reluctant to leave
higher ground as strong aftershocks continue to rock the region
for a third day.


Hendrik, who goes by one name, said the 600 people of his tiny
village were afraid to return home because of the risk of another
tsunami.


"We need shovels, we need tents to make this place safe, or
people will get very sick in the next few days," he said of their
makeshift camp.


Solomon Islands government communications director Alfred
Maesulia said aid was starting to flow into the region.


He said a New Zealand Air Force cargo plane was en route with
several hundred bags of rice and other supplies such as tents and
water containers.


Another cargo plane from Australia was due to arrive in the
country Wednesday and two more ships carrying aid were to leave
Honiara during the day.


Six doctors and 13 nurses were on the way to three clinics due to
be set up in the affected areas, which include some of the most
isolated islands of the impoverished South Pacific country.


Deputy police commissioner Peter Marshall said an aerial survey
Tuesday of the affected areas in Western Province and adjoining
Choiseul province had not revealed any evidence of death on a
huge scale.


"There were very obvious areas of destruction to villages and
landslips around the various locations," he told AFP, adding many
villages had been deserted.


"Having said that, there was no evidence of widespread death
compared to the events ... at the end of 2004," Marshall said,
referring to the Asian tsunami which killed 220,000 people around
the Indian Ocean.


"There were no obvious numbers of deceased persons at all," he
said.


Marshall said the current death toll of about 30 was still
expected to rise.


Police were checking out reports from villagers that up to 12
bodies were seen floating in the sea near Simbo island, southeast
of Gizo.


According to government figures Simbo has suffered the worst
death toll with 12 deaths recorded so far, followed by Gizo with
eight.


Among those killed on Simbo were a bishop and three of his
congregants who died when the tsunami slammed into their church
during an ordination ceremony.

