

Shhhhhhh. Don't tell anyone but Jim Furyk is ranked second in the
world and wants to keep quiet about his status as a stealth
stalker of top-ranked Tiger Woods when the Masters begins
Thursday.


US veteran Furyk, who turns 37 next month, captured the 2003 US
Open among his 12 US PGA Tour triumphs and has three top-six
finishes at Augusta National Golf Club in 10 starts, with a best
of fourth coming in both 1998 and 2003.


Woods leads the world rankings with 20.16 points to Furyk's 8.31,
a massive gap which supports Furyk's desire not to in any way be
seen as the potential next challenger to Woods' supremacy in
golf.


"As far as who anyone would pick to be the next guy to challenge
Tiger, I would willingly beg you to pick someone else and please
leave me alone, let me go do what I want," Furyk said.


"I don't mind the attention but I'm just fine and dandy going to
a restaurant with my family and sitting down to a nice quiet
dinner and enjoying it. I'm not jealous of any of the due anyone
in the golf world gets."


With Woods celebrating the 10th anniversary of his breakthrough
first major win this week and Phil Mickelson defending his title,
Furyk is relatively overlooked and quite happy about it.


"It doesn't bother me," he said. "I'm comfortable with who I am
and where I stand and what I'm trying to accomplish and I don't
really worry about the rest of it. It just doesn't matter."


Furyk, who won two events last year and finished second on the US
money list, gladly talks about how Woods blasts drives 40 yards
beyond him.


"I would just like to borrow about 10 to 15 yards. I don't need
the whole 40," Furyk said.


But behind the humble pie is a silent-but-deadly attitude.


"I have a positive outlook," Furyk said. "If I was playing my
best golf I probably wouldn't jump up and down and tell you my
chances are great and if I was playing terrible golf I would know
better than to be down on myself.


"I've had days on Wednesday where I felt like a 10-handicap and
won by two that week."


Furyk shared second at last year's US Open with defending Masters
champion Phil Mickelson and fourth at the British Open and was a
teammate of Woods on the trounced US Ryder Cup team, earning
praises from the world number one.


With forecasts for dry weather, Furyk might avoid his nightmare
scenario - soggy fairways limiting his drives and quick-drying
greens giving him putting horrors.


"I'm obviously rooting for firm, fast conditions," he said.
"Greens get firmer before the fairways do and it makes it tough
for an average-length hitter."


With typical understatement, Furyk surrenders the favorite's role
to Woods and the long-ball hitters but warns not to count out
players like himself.


"I don't think it's impossible," Furyk said. "I would say the
odds are favored for the power hitters but other guys that were
not long hitters have figured out ways to win here and I think it
can be done."

