

The US auto industry and its backers are skeptical about a major
free trade pact with South Korea despite measures aimed at
opening up what has been a highly protected automotive market.


The free trade agreement (FTA) clinched over the weekend just
ahead of a key deadline for Congress would, if ratified, phase
out US tariffs on South Korean- made vehicles in exchange for
some market-opening moves by Seoul.


Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia said the pact
includes "a number of innovative features including provisions to
level the playing field in the automotive area."


The pact, the biggest since the North American Free Trade
Agreement, cuts tariffs on about 95 percent of consumer and
industrial products, and opens up a big market for US services,
officials said.


A fact sheet provided by the US Trade Representative's office
(USTR) said the agreement calls for Seoul to eliminate
"discriminatory" vehicle taxes, which are often based on engine
size, and to address non-tariff barriers.


The deal also called for an "expedited dispute settlement
process" for auto- related issues.


But auto industry supporters say the trade pact does little to
address hidden barriers to the auto trade, including the cozy
relationships between Korean manufacturers, banks and regulators
that make it hard for US firms to gain inroads.


"The Koreans got what they wanted: immediate elimination of the
US tariff on most autos and on all auto parts as well as eventual
elimination of the tariff on trucks," said Congressman Sander
Levin of Michigan.


"The US did not get what was needed -- an agreement that assures
that the US automotive industry will no longer face the barriers
to their products, that trade will be truly a two-way street."


Levin noted that South Korea sells 700,000 vehicles in the US
annually while the US exports fewer than 5,000 to Korea.


Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said the
trade pact has the potential to harm US firms because of South
Korea's strong industrial base.


"Korea has the capacity to knock the blocks off a lot of
manufacturers in the US," he said.


Morici said Seoul has engaged in "currency manipulation and
veiled non-tariff barriers, especially in automobiles. We're
going to be removing our tariffs for trucks and it's not clear
how we will achieve reciprocity."


Stephen Collins, president of the Automotive Trade Policy Council
representing Detroit automakers, said the group was "awaiting the
still undisclosed elements" of the agreement.


However, "based on what we know, this agreement does not appear
to meet our expectations."


DaimlerChrysler added in a statement that although it has
supported other FTAs, "we will not support this agreement as we
currently understand it."


US union leaders are expected to mount strong opposition to the
deal.


"This agreement is likely to exacerbate and accelerate the loss
of good jobs in the US manufacturing sector, especially in autos,
apparel, and electronics," said AFL-CIO president John Sweeney.


"We already have a 14 billion dollar trade deficit with South
Korea -- almost 12 billion of that in autos and auto parts,"
Sweeney said.


"This deal will likely jeopardize tens of thousands of US auto
jobs -- opening the US auto market further -- while failing to
address the array of formal and informal barriers to the sale of
US automobiles in South Korea."


More emphatically, United Auto Workers president Ron Gettelfinger
said Congress should reject the pact because it is "not
reciprocal."


He said South Korea failed to live up to memoranda of
understanding on auto trade in 1995 and 1998 calling on the Asian
country to dismantle its barriers to US-built automotive
products.


"Despite these past agreements, Korea used non-tariff barriers to
keep its market closed," he said. "This new proposed deal
represents more of the same flawed policy. We're granting
increased access to our markets, while receiving no concrete or
enforceable promises in return."

