

World oil prices tumbled on Tuesday as Iran signalled that
progress had been made to end its standoff with Britain over the
capture of 15 British sailors and marines.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 1.30 dollars to close at 64.64 dollars per
barrel.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May lost 93 cents to
settle at 67.81 dollars per barrel in London trading.


"It seems as if a lot of the tensions between the UK and Iran
have dissipated ... (and it) seems we're moving towards a
resolution of this problem, which may mean the market has further
to fall," said Base Commodities broker Christopher Bellew.


Crude futures had soared over the past week on concerns that
Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, could move to
disrupt its energy exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention by Iran of 14 men and one woman has further
poisoned relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear program.


Iran and Britain on Tuesday started talks described as a first
step towards resolving the row over the capture.


Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, said the new contacts
could create the conditions for ending the standoff as both sides
toned down rhetoric previously marked by anger and accusations.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It looks like there could be a peaceful resolution to the
crisis, so the market reacted positively," said analyst Fadel
Gheit at Oppenheimer.


"Nobody really expected a war, but at least a military
confrontation seems to have been avoided."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday that the standoff
with Iran now faced a "critical" 48 hours.


Iran insists that the 15 marines and sailors were captured on
March 23 because they had illegally entered Iranian waters.
Britain claims they were taken while in Iraqi waters.

