

Masters favourite Tiger Woods and defending champion Phil
Mickelson both said on Tuesday that they would relish the chance
to go head-to-head for the title on the back nine on Sunday.


Between them, the two have won five of the last six tournaments
at Augusta and their domination has brought comparisons to
similar periods of two-player rule involving Arnold Palmer and
Jack Nicklaus between 1962 and 1965 and Ben Hogan and Sam Snead
between 1951 and 1954.


Last year, it was Mickelson's turn to accept the winner's green
jacket from the hands of Woods, who had won the previous year.


But it was only his third victory in a major at the age of 35,
compared to Woods, who has now won 12 majors and is by nearly
five years the junior of the two.


On that occasion, Mickelson was playing some of the best golf of
his career as he won going away from the field, while Woods was
under the cloud of the cancer illness which killed his father
shortly after.


This time around, Woods is back to his sparkling best and there
are some doubts over Mickelson following his final-hole collapse
at last year's US Open and a poor showing at the Ryder Cup.


He said he would relish the chance to take on Woods on Sunday,
but insisted that he could hardly be placed alongside the man who
was "most likely the best player the game has ever seen."


"If I have a great rest of my career and I go out and win 20 more
tournaments and seven more majors to get to 50 wins and 10
majors, that would be an awesome career," he said.


"But I still won't get to where he is today. So I don't try to
compare myself against him."


Woods agreed that he was coming into this year's tournament with
a vastly different mindset and that he would be better equipped
to challenge Mickelson down the home stretch than he was 12
months ago.


"It doesn't happen that often, when we're both playing well at
the same time, the same week," he said. "It's one of the hard
dynamics of the game of golf."


"It would be fun because if we're both going at it, that means
we've got a chance to win the tournament."


Talk of a two-horse race, however, may be premature with Ernie
Els, once seen as the likliest player to challenge Woods for the
mantle of best golfer in the world, saying he feels he is finally
back to his best form.


The South African had a long and difficult rehabilitation period
following an knee operation in July 2005 during which he admitted
he "got into some bad habits" with his golf swing.


"It was only since the start of this year that I really started
feeling no pain or no effect in the knee. It took a little longer
than I thought," he said.


"People who have had knee reconstruction have told me it would
take up to two years and they were right. But I think I am
finally normal again."


Els has been runner-up twice at the Masters and he knows that
failure to win at least one green jacket would be a big blemish
on his career.


"I've had 13 chances at it and haven't done it quite yet and I'd
love to do it. If I don't do it, it definitely would be a bit of
a downer," Els said.


With dry, cool conditions forecast for the later part of the
week, world No. 2 Jim Furyk said that that could act in favour of
the players like himself who cannot match the big-hitting power
of such as Woods, Mickelson and Els.


"I don't think it's impossible," he said when asked if the
tournament could be won by a lightweight hitter.


"Mike Weir comes to mind, not a guy you would think of as a
bomber, and he won in 2003 when the conditions were real firm and
fast.


"I'd say the odds favour the power hitters, but other guys, who
were not long- hitters, have figured out ways to win and I think
it can be done."

