

Liverpool have one foot in the semi-finals of the Champions
League after a 3-0 quarter-final first leg victory over a dismal
PSV Eindhoven here on Tuesday.


Captain Steven Gerrard, John Arne Riise and Peter Crouch bagged
the goals to silence the Phillips Stadium.


It was no less than Liverpool deserved against a surprisingly
negative PSV, whose season is beginning to unravel before them.


The Dutch league leaders have been reeled in by Ajax and AZ
Alkmaar in their domestic league and need a miracle at Anfield
next week to progress to the last four for the second time in
three seasons.


PSV coach Ronald Koeman sprang a surprise before kick off by
employing the same tactic that flummoxed Arsenal in the previous
round.


Koeman played Finnish defensive midfielder Mika Vayrynen as his
most advanced player, a role Philip Cocu, who reverted to his
holding duties against Liverpool, had occupied in the 1-0 home
leg victory over the Gunners.


However, what worked in stifling the free-flowing, pacy, passing
style of Arsene Wenger's outfit, had little affect against the
simple game-plan favoured by Rafael Benitez.


PSV produced almost nothing in the first-half while Liverpool
relied on the aerial threat of Crouch and the industry of Gerrard
and Dirk Kuyt to fashion the odd opening.


It was centre-back Jamie Carragher, making his 50th Champions
League appearance and breaking the Liverpool record of Phil Neal,
who had the first sight of goal, but his header from Gerrard's
corner was brilliantly tipped away by Brazilian goalkeeper Gomes.


On 23 minutes, PSV did carve Liverpool open and Jan Kromkamp, who
plied his trade at Anfield for eight months in 2006, sent over a
teasing cross but Vayrynen's left foot volley bounced into the
ground, off Carragher and over the bar.


It was the moment that PSV's lack of an out and out striker -
such as former Barcelona hitman Patrick Kluivert, who was warming
the bench - became abundantly apparent.


Four minutes later Liverpool broke the deadlock.


Javier Mascherano - deemed not good enough even for struggling
West Ham's bench but now starting in a Champions League quarter-
final at the heart of Liverpool's midfield - fed the overlapping
Steve Finnan down the right and he sent a sumptuous cross into
the box.


Gerrard arrived late and climbing above Kuyt buried his header
with aplomb.


Koeman's tactical acumen came under further scrutiny after the
break as he replaced his flying Peruvian winger Jefferson Farfan
with Chinese full-back Sun Xiang.


After two lucky escapes, PSV shot themselves in the foot on 49
minutes when a wayward clearance from Belgian centre-back Timmy
Simons fell to Riise 25 yards out.


The Norwegian needed no second invitation to dispatch a dipping
volley into the top corner of the net.


Finally Koeman opted to pull on a striker and he replaced Ecuador
midfielder Edison Mendez with Kluivert, a winner of this
competition with Ajax back in 1995.


Liverpool could have scored another on 58 minutes when Gomes
spilled Kuyt's cross, but Riise failed to turn in the rebound
with his back to goal.


The third goal arrived in the 63rd minute. Crouch rose above the
PSV defender to head home Finnan's cross from the right.


PSV started to pour forward and take risks after that but it
proved too little too late.


The only black spot for Liverpool was a serious looking leg
injury to Brazilian full-back Fabio Aurelio 17 minutes from time.

