

Interpol issued arrest warrants for three Israelis accused of
training Colombian paramilitary armies blamed for massacres of
leftists, a Colombian secret police official told AFP Tuesday.


The international arrest warrants for Yair Klein, Melnik Ferry
and Tzedaka Abraham allege they instructed private, right-wing
armies in "military or terrorist tactics, techniques and
procedures," as well as conspiracy, the source at DAS told AFP.


Klein's alumni are blamed for the assassinations of four
presidential candidates in the 1990 campaign, as well as the
assassinations of more than 3,000 members of the leftist
Patriotic Union party.


Interpol issued the warrants for a court in Manizales, a medium-
sized city in Colombia's coffee region.


Prosecutors there say Klein, Ferry and Abraham trained
paramilitary fighters at the service of Medellin cocaine dealers
in 1990.


Drug dealers who invested their wealth on farm land hired the men
to train the fighters to fend off guerrilla bands who extorted
"war taxes" from landowners, ranchers and banana plantation
owners.


Former Medellin cocaine trafficker Fidel Castano built the
private armies into the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia
(AUC) which went on a rampage, and massacred peasants and banana
workers suspected of having leftist sympathies, according to
human rights groups and government officials.


The AUC disbanded during the presidency of Alvaro Uribe, and the
massacres have stopped, officials say.


Klein was detained in Sierra Leone and has been tied to armed
groups in Liberia.


In March, Klein granted Colombia's Caracol television an
interview in Israel in which he offered Colombia's government to
eliminate communist rebels within six months.


He called the decision to demobilize the 32,000 AUC fighters
"stupidity."


The Colombian government has been at war with guerrillas for more
than 40 years, fighting the 14,000-strong Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the smaller National Liberation
Army (ELN) with 4,500 armed irregulars.


The United States considers AUC, FARC and ELN terrorist groups.

