

Happiness is notoriously subjective, but advances in the study of
life satisfaction are helping policy-makers to look beyond the
single-minded goal of maximising national incomes, experts who
took part in an OECD conference say.


"We know that income has a direct influence on happiness, but the
equation is not simple," said economist Leonardo Becchetti of the
University of Rome.


"If you're above average in the social group to which you belong,
your perception of happiness rises, but not in the same
proportion as your income," he told AFP on the sidelines of the
conference here.


The two-day meeting, which ended Tuesday, was sponsored by the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
University of Rome "Tor Vergata", the Bank of Italy, the Centre
for Economic and International Studies (CEIS) and the European
Commission.


"Politicians should stop thinking in terms of 'wealth-poverty'
and take into consideration the environmental and social
dimension when they develop their policies," Becchetti said.


With future generations in mind and a view to avoid jeopardising
a country's economy and public finances over the long term,
economists have introduced the concept of "sustainable
happiness," he said.


Ruut Veenhoven of Erasmus University Rotterdam, in a presentation
titled "Measures of Gross National Happiness" -- a term coined by
Bhutan's King Jigme Singye Wangchuck -- said "happiness is a
realistic policy aim."


He added: "Happiness of a great number is apparently possible in
modern society and greater happiness as well.


"The available data suggest that most gains can be made by
policies that focus on freedom and justice. Economic growth is
not likely to add much to happiness in affluent nations,"
Veenhoven said.


The Rome conference was part of preparations for the OECD's
second World Forum on "Statistics, Knowledge and Policy" to be
held in Istanbul June 27-30 on measuring societal progress or
failings.


The forum's website states: "A consensus is growing around the
need to develop a more comprehensive view of progress -- one that
takes into account social, environmental and economic concerns --
rather than focusing mainly on economic indicators like Gross
Domestic Product (GDP)."


"To get a picture of overall progress, you have to cover areas
such as education, health, income distribution, environmental
sustainability, security and public safety as well as economic
growth," OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurria said in January.


The OECD hopes to establish a set of indicators for societal
progress by 2015, when the United Nations' Millennium Development
Goals will be assessed.


The main goal among eight adopted at a UN summit in 2000 was that
of halving world poverty by 2015.

