

Four-time Masters champion Arnold Palmer will serve as the
event's honorary starter for the first time when the 71st Masters
tees off here Thursday at Augusta National Golf Club.


Palmer's ceremonial start marks the return of a tradition last
seen at Augusta National in 2002 when Sam Snead served as the
lone honorary starter a month before his death.


"The entire membership wants to me to do it and I'm looking
forward to it," said Palmer, who had hesitated to say he would
handle the ceremonial duties once performed by such legends as
Snead, Byron Nelson and Gene Sarazen.


"I didn't want to jump the gun, do it too early in my career. I
didn't want to get ahead of myself. It felt like since I'm really
not going to be playing in golf tournaments all over the world
any more, this seemed like a good time."


Augusta National chairman Billy Payne was happy to have Palmer
add a grand spectacle to his first Masters as leader of the club.


"We are absolutely delighted that Arnold Palmer will once again
be on the first tee at Augusta, the place where he belongs,"
Payne said.


Palmer said he longed to play again but vowed not to test the
lengthened course even if his tee shot should find the fairway.


"I'm not too smart but I'm not stupid. I'll just let it go
wherever it goes," Palmer said.


The 77-year-old US golf legend last made the Masters cut in 1983
but did not retire from competition in the event until 2004 after
making a record 50 starts in a row at Augusta National, where he
is a member.


"It was a hard one to stop playing," Palmer said. "I just wanted
to get over that and get ready and now I'm ready.


"The time has come. my competitive golf is done. It's a hard
bullet to swallow when you see these guys hitting the ball as far
as they are and know you will not be competitive anymore."


Palmer's move is seen as the possible start of another fabled
trio taking the first tee for ceremonial starts, with Palmer-era
rivals Gary Player of South Africa and 18-time major champion
Jack Nicklaus potentially joining him.


"They don't call me when they want to do something. Why should I
call them?" Palmer said. "They are my friends. I'll leave it at
that."


Palmer won 62 US PGA titles, including Masters crowns in 1958,
1960, 1962 and 1964. Legions of supporters known as "Arnie's Army
cheered him on long after he was unable to compete with the stars
of the sport.


But Palmer admits he expects to feel some nerves when he returns
to the first tee.


"I probably wouldn't hit it if I didn't feel some emotion,"
Palmer said.


Honorary starters began at the Masters in 1963 with Jock
Hutchison and Fred McLeod doing the honors. Nelson, Sarazen and
Snead followed multiple times with Ken Venturi doing so only
once, in 1983.


"When I saw those legends start it off, it was a big kick for
me," South African Tim Clark said. "Even with Tiger, Arnold
Palmer is probably the most popular guy when he's out here. I
know a lot of people miss seeing Arnold."

