

Russia voiced concern Tuesday after Ukrainian President Viktor
Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament, and urged a
compromise between pro- Western and pro-Russian factions in Kiev.


"Russia is following developing events in Ukraine closely and
with concern," the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.


"Calls for a compromise in Ukraine should be heeded by all sides
in the interests of the stability of Ukrainian society," the
statement said.


Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow was
ready to "help" Ukraine, which less than three years ago turned
its back on Moscow with its pro- West "orange revolution" that
swept Yushchenko to power in early 2005.


"Russia is sincerely committed to the development of a stable
Ukraine, in line with the country's constitution," Lavrov said
while on a visit to Armenia.


"The final decision is up to Ukraine, but if Kiev asks for help,
I guarantee that Russia would not hesitate" to provide it, he
said.


The view of some Russian press was a bit more alarmist about
Ukraine's future.


The daily Kommersant questioned whether the opposing sides in
Ukraine would turn to the use of force, claiming that "the prime
minister controls the police and the president has at the army at
his command," the paper said.


Boris Gryzlov, the president of the Duma, Russia's lower house of
parliament, warned Kiev against "a fight for power" which "risks
leading to clashes between citizens in the streets".


Other Russian lawmakers did not hesitate to lash out at
Yushchenko, who has angered the Kremlin with his pro-West moves
to position Ukraine as a possible future member of NATO and the
European Union.


Dissolving parliament "is a mistake" and "will not help resolve
the political problems" in Ukraine, said Konstantin Kossatchev,
head of the Duma's foreign affairs commission.


Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych long had Moscow's
support, including from President Vladimir Putin who backed him
in his race against Yushchenko for president in 2004.


The Kremlin has a strategic desire to keep Ukraine within its
orbit. The country is wedged between Russia and the European
Union and controls a considerable stretch of the Black Sea coast.
Russia also maintains a major naval base in Crimea.

