

Cesare Battisti, a former Italian communist revolutionary who
went into hiding two and a half years ago, was arrested Sunday in
a Rio de Janeiro hotel, Brazilian police said.


Battisti, 52, disappeared in France in August 2004, shortly
before the French government signed an extradition order to
return him to Italy, where he has been convicted in absentia for
four murders.


A former member of the Armed Proletarians for Communism, Battisti
lived in Paris from 1990 where he made his name as a crime
writer.


He was arrested at daybreak in a Rio hotel, as he met with a
member of his support committee, who had travelled to Brazil to
give him money, officials said.


At the time of his arrest near Brazil's fabled Copacabana beach
Battisti was meeting French national Lucy Genevieve Oles. Police
said there were no immediate charges against Oles, who had
entered the country legally and had declared upon her entry that
she was carrying some 9,000 euros -- presumably for Battisti.


Authorities said however that she might at a later time be called
upon to testify against the former revolutionary.


Battisti's plight has been taken up by campaigners in France, who
in 2004 vainly urged the government not to accede to Italy's
extradition request.


In 1993 the former revolutionary was given a life sentence by an
Italian court for his role in four murders committed in 1978 and
1979.


Supporters say his conviction rested on faulty evidence and that
because he was tried in absentia there should be a re-trial --
which Italy refuses.


Italian Justice Minister Clemente Mastella, speaking to the ANSA
news agency, hailed the "brilliant operation" leading to
Battisti's arrest and said he hoped "the extradition procedure
will lead to Battisti's speedy return to Italy."


Battisti had benefited for many years from a policy instituted by
French Socialist president Francois Mitterrand under which
Italian left-wing extremists could stay in France if they
abandoned their commitment to armed struggle.


Pietro Forno, deputy prosecutor of Turin, also hailed Battisti's
arrest, saying he was still dangerous 14 years after being
convicted in absentia.


"Nothing suggests that he has changed in terms of his
dangerousness," Forno told ANSA.


Forno, recalling "fierce attacks" against him in the 1980s when
he pursued Battisti, criticised the French authorities for what
he described as a "permissive" attitude at the time.

