

South African flyer Roland Schoeman believes if his second lap is
on par with his rivals he can win the 100-metres freestyle gold
medal at the World Swimming Championships.


Schoeman, who is the second-fastest swimmer ever over 50m, is
confident he can do his first lap in 22.4 seconds, but it is the
second 50m which is the problematic part for him.


The Arizona-based South African won the silver medal in the 100m
at the 2004 Athens Olympics behind Dutchman Pieter van den
Hoogenband, who holds the world record at 47.84secs.


Schoeman believes van den Hoogenband's world record may have to
be broken to win the 100m world title here.


"It could take a 47 (seconds), but everyone gets so hyped up it
could only take a 48.4," Schoeman said at Monday's team training.


"I can do my first lap in 22.4 (seconds). If my second (lap) is
as good as everyone else's in the world, no one can touch me."


The 27-year-old sprinter says he is healthy for the world
championships after being fatigued and not in his best shape for
last year's Commonwealth  Games here when he finished third
behind Englishman Simon Burnett.


"I'm here, I'm healthy, I've been training right. I'm coming into
this stronger than I've ever been, and more mature than I've ever
been," he said.


He was disappointed in his fitness for the Commonwealth Games.


"I have a body that is purely sprint orientated. Lots of aerobic
training breaks me down. I just got pushed beyond my limit," he
said.


Schoeman was a member of the South African team that stunningly
won the 100m freestyle relay gold medal from the Netherlands and
United States and he has been vocal in speaking up about his
team's relay chances at the worlds.


"We need characters in swimming. We need controversy," he said.


"We're not actually discrediting each other, we're just getting
people riled up to bring out the best. Let's see what you got. I
love it. Bring it on.


"When I said 'people enjoy spanking the US', I think the US enjoy
spanking everyone else."


South Africa head coach Dirk Lange believes his team is a big
chance to knock over the Americans in the relay, purely with
Schoeman in their ranks.


"The improvement of the US team automatically puts us as the
underdogs, but that does not mean we have no chance. We are
always a chance with Roland Schoeman in the team," Lange said.


"For me, he is perfect. If he is in the mood, he can do anything,
he's full of surprises. Personally, I believe I've never seen a
faster swimmer.


"Unfortunately at the Commonwealth Games he got sicker and sicker
every day, and he didn't get to show his ability.


"He must feel comfortable in the situation next week, if he feels
comfortable he will perform."

