

Australian Grand Prix winner Kimi Raikkonen says the steamy
weather and long stretches of Malaysia's Sepang circuit will test
Ferrari's ability to maintain their early-season Formula One
dominance.


The Flying Finn, in his first race for Ferrari as Michael
Schumacher's replacement, dictated Sunday's season-opening 58-lap
Melbourne race off the pole to comfortably hold off McLaren pair,
world champion Fernando Alonso and Lewis Hamilton.


The F1 circus heads to Kuala Lumpur for the second race on the
17-race schedule on April 8, with Ferrari the team to beat after
Raikkonen's commanding victory in Australia.


It was Raikkonen's first victory in Melbourne after three podium
finishes with his former McLaren team, but his Ferrari car was
clearly the fastest in practice, qualifying and in the Australian
race.


Asked whether Ferrari's victory was a portent of the 2007 season,
Raikkonen said: "It's too early to say and we need to wait for a
couple of races to see where we really are.


"We're in a good position right now and we just have to keep
working hard and keep improving and try to win as many races as
we can."


Raikkonen knows from experience the different challenges
confronting F1 teams from the temperate autumn of Melbourne to
the tropical heat of Malaysia.


"It is a completely different circuit in Sepang, different
weather, the hot weather makes it more difficult to get the car
right and the tyres work differently in the hot conditions," he
said.


"We will see how we do in testing next week and then we will work
from there."


Alonso has good memories of Sepang after winning there with
Renault in 2005 and was runner-up to Renault teammate Giancarlo
Fisichella last year. He was also third in 2003.


"I have always been very good there and have great memories of
Sepang so hopefully it will be a good weekend for us," Alonso
said.


"We will be trying to keep scoring points and finishing on the
podium.


"You cannot afford any mistakes in the world championship these
days, so in the first four or five races the most important thing
is to finish all of them, if at all possible on the podium.


"As the car develops you start fighting for victories. Malaysia
can be really interesting."


Rookie Hamilton has yet to race at Sepang, but has watched plenty
of races there on television.


"I've not been to Malaysia before, I don't know the circuit but I
have watched it on TV and I'm excited to get on to the circuit,"
he said.


"We are going to be trying to close the gap between us and
Ferrari and we are going to be developing the car more with three
days' testing so we are going to push and hopefully maximise the
test and make sure we're at the front again for the next race."


Renault are looking for an improved performance in Malaysia after
Fisichella's struggling fifth place provided the only points for
the reigning constructors' champions.


"The Australian race proved more difficult than we had expected,"
Fisichella said.


"We knew that we were not on the pace of the leaders, but we had
hoped to make up some ground and now we realise there is a lot of
work to do."


Head team engineer Pat Symonds agreed that the next week is
crucial.


"We now have a much clearer idea of the car's performance and
three days of testing ahead of us in Malaysia before the next
Grand Prix," Symonds said.


Renault beat Ferrari by five points for last year's constructors'
title, spearheaded by the now departed champion driver Alonso.

