

Real Zaragoza kept alive their hopes of playing in the Champions
League for the first time when they battled their way to a 1-0
win over Atletico Madrid on Sunday.


Diego Milito got the only goal of the game, his 17th of the
season, after 20 minutes to give Zaragoza the perfect birthday
present as the club was celebrating its 75th anniversary.


The Argentine striker was too quick for the Atletico defence,
which was pressed too far forward, and latched onto a massive
punt out of Zaragoza's own half before slotting the ball past
Atletico's stranded goalkeeper Leo Franco.


Zaragoza move up to fourth place but could slip back to fifth
again if Real Madrid beat Gimnastic Tarragona later on Sunday.


At the other end of the table, bottom club Real Sociedad's got a
valuable point with a 1-1 draw at Villarreal but still face
playing in the Spanish second division next season for the first
time in 40 years.


There were faint hopes that Sociedad could notch up their first
away win of the season when Savio put them ahead after 40
minutes.


A loose ball fell to the former Brazilian international whose
right foot shot found the target from 10 metres.


Josico Moreno saved Villarreal's blushes with a 58th minute
equaliser, heading home a Marcos Garcia corner.


Villarreal played the last 12 minutes of the game with only 10
men after Cani Garcia got his marching orders for hacking down
Sociedad defender Javier Garrido.


Antonio Barragan showed again that he is one of the brightest
Spanish prospects for the future when he got the winner in
Deportivo La Coruna's 1-0 win over Getafe.


The 19 year-old wing back, who is one of the likely stars of the
Under-20 World Cup this summer, sent his low shot from the edge
of the area past Getafe keeper Pato Abbondanzieri, the safest
pair of hands in the Spanish first division this season.


Deportivo had been a man down since 10 minutes before the break
when Angel Arizmendi was sent off after a punch up with Getafe's
Javier Paredes.


Espanyol drew 1-1 with Levante, with the visitors opening the
scoring after 13 minutes when the mis-timed backward header of
Espanyol midfielder Albert Riera fell to the feet of Gustavo
Reggi.


Riera made up for his error five minutes later by providing the
service for Luis Garcia to get the Barcelona-based club's
equaliser.


Samuel Eto'o contributed two goals as league leaders Barcelona
won their first away game in La Liga for four months with a 4-0
thrashing of Recreativo Huelva on Saturday.


The reigning Spanish champions have a three point lead over
nearest rivals Sevilla, although the UEFA Cup winners have a game
in hand and play Celta Vigo later on Sunday.


Eto'o opened the scoring just three minutes into the game with a
long, looping shot from 30 metres.


Gianluca Zambrotta got his first league goal for Barca six
minutes before the break and Eto'o then added his second goal
four minutes later before Lionel Messi completed Barca's quartet
four minutes.


Third-placed Valencia squandered their chance to close the gap on
the leading pair in the Spanish first division when they went
down 2-0 at home to Racing Santander earlier on Saturday.


Pedro Munitis put Racing in front after 20 minutes, finding the
net from the edge of the six yard box, and Oriol Lozano sealed
the victory with a header from a Munitis corner after 63 minutes.


Real Madrid are fourth, two points behind Valencia, but a win
against relegation-threatened Gimnastic Tarragona on Sunday would
see them leapfrog over the 2002 and 2004 Spanish champions.

