

Top-ranked South Africa would want to be as ruthless as possible
against minnows Scotland before taking on  bitter rivals
Australia in their crunch World Cup test.


"We are focused on our match against Scotland, because this is
the match to play for now," said South African captain Graeme
Smith of his team's Group A clash at Warner Park on Tuesday.


Smith's men know their real challenge will come on March 24
against defending champions Australia whom they displaced as
world number one last month.


Smith believed his team's emphatic 221-run win over the
Netherlands in their first group match last week had given the
players a much-needed work out.


"After what happened in Trinidad we arrived in St Kitts and since
then have better preparation. The batsmen have had good workouts
and the bowlers bowled a few so I am happy with the
preparations," said Smith, whose team had a poor build-up to the
tournament.


They struggled to beat debutants Ireland and went down by seven
wickets to Pakistan in their warm-up matches in Trinidad, where
the facilities and a tricky pitch came under criticism.


But against Netherlands in their Group A opener they piled up
353-3 with Jacques Kallis hitting an unbeaten 128, while
Herschelle Gibbs wrote his name in history books by slamming six
sixes in an over for the first time in one-day cricket during his
40-ball 72.


Mark Boucher made the fastest World Cup fifty off just 21-balls.


Only opener AB de Villiers failed to make an impact when he was
dismissed without scoring, a failure Smith was happy to write
off.


"He (De Villiers) had a good series against Pakistan back home
and there is no doubt in my mind that he is a good player and
will be among runs soon," said Smith who hoped his team will keep
up the momentum of the first match.


"We know Scotland are a slightly better side so we need to
improve. We have analysed some video footage of them," said Smith
whose side has never played Scotland in one-day internationals.


Smith has, however, played alongside Scotland's acting captain
Ryan Watson during his school days back home.


Watson will replace regular captain Craig Wright who has gone
home to attend a family funeral but will be be back for his
team's last group match against the Netherlands on March 22.


Scotland's Australian-born coach Peter Drinnen said his team
relishes the challenge of playing the number one team in the
world.


"We are excited by the challenge and both Australia and South
Africa in our group provide us with two real challenges," said
Drinnen, a former Queensland wicket-keeper who took over as coach
last year.


"South Africa have been playing tough cricket for the last year.
But we have to think about what we are doing and we need to pose
a stronger challenge than we did against Australia," said
Drinnen, whose team lost to Australia by 202 runs.

