

Fallen giants Paris St Germain slipped deeper into relegation
trouble with another dire 1-0 defeat at Rennes on Sunday.


PSG's season hit a new low following their midweek defeat against
Benfica in the UEFA Cup, which ended their last hopes of ending
the season with silverare, and now this sorry reverse which sees
them firmly rooted one place off the bottom of the French first
division.


Jimmy Briand scored Rennes's winner 14 minutes from time to
condemn the visitors to their fourth league defeat in a row.


Sammy Traore could hardly be faulted as he headed bravely against
the bar two minutes from time despite blood seeping through a
bandage from an ugly head wound.


But Paul Le Guen's men could not save themselves from defeat and
after a promising opening to the beginning of his PSG coaching
career, the former Lyon and Rangers boss is increasingly mired in
misery in the French capital.


Earlier in the day, Auxerre beat Lens 1-0 at home through a
Thomas Kahlenberg goal to scupper their visitors' hopes of
pulling eight points clear of the chasing pack in the battle for
second place in the league.


That defeat means that Lyon need only four more victories from
their remaining nine matches to sew up a sixth straight title
after a 3-0 cruise at Nancy on Saturday.


Goals from Czech forward Milan Baros, Swedish midfielder Kim
Kallstrom and Brazilian striker Fred wrapped up the three points.


Lyon are 16 points clear of Lens and 12 points from the remaining
27 available to them will secure the championship.


"We were very lucky in the first half," admitted Lyon boss
Gerrard Houllier. "In the second our players deomstrated their
talent and courage with two great goals.


"I don't think any other team has knocked us out of our stride
quite like Nancy did tonight (Saturday). Away from home you have
to be strong mentally to impose your game and the team has that."


Freefalling Nancy, who earlier in the season were challenging for
a Champions League place, have not won in eight games in all
competitions and have only one win since the turn of the year.
They now sit 14th and just seven points above the bottom three.


Bordeaux moved up to third in the tightly-packed table with an
uninspiring 1-1 draw at rock-bottom Sedan.


Former Nottingham Forest forward Jean-Claude Darcheville gave the
visitors the lead on 28 minutes but just after the break Mansour
Boutabout levelled for the hosts.


Bordeaux moved above Lille who suffered a disheartening 2-0 home
loss to Le Mans as second period goals from Ismael Bangoura and
Grafite pushed Le Mans into the Champions League picture.


Lille are a point behind Bordeaux and ahead of Sochaux and
Toulouse on goal difference. Sochaux beat Toulouse 4-2 in
Saturday's early game.


A point further back are St Etienne, who beat Troyes 3-1, and
Marseille, who thrashed Nice 3-0. Although ninth, Le Mans are
only a single win away from Bordeaux in the final Champions
League place.


Mamadou Niang scored a brace for Marseille with Renato Civelli
adding the other strike.


"That feels good and the players deserved it," said Marseille
boss Albert Emon, who saw his team return to form last week with
a 1-1 draw against Lyon.


"The team was disciplined which allowed them to build their
game."


Nantes are still in relegation trouble after a 2-1 defeat at
Monaco, who rose to 10th in the table.

