

India coach Greg Chappell is confident his team can recover from
a horror start and reach the next round of the World Cup.


India need to win their next two matches against debutants
Bermuda and Sri Lanka after suffering a shock five-wicket defeat
in their opening Group B game here on Saturday.


Sri Lanka and Bangladesh have posted one victory in the four-team
group, while India and Bermuda are winless after one game. The
top two sides will qualify for the next Super Eight stage.


"The defeat hurts and we are all disappointed, but worrying about
it is not going to change anything. It has happened and we have
got to deal with it," Chappell said.


"We have lost games before, bounced back and then won matches
again. This team has the resilience about it which is quite
remarkable and I expect the boys to bounce back.


"What we have to do is to get back on the track and start putting
ourselves back into the same frame of mind that we are here to
play good cricket. We now have to focus on what we can control.
We have to win every game from here."


India found themselves in a must-win situation after spending
just one day on the field as they were outplayed by Habibul
Bashar's Bangladeshis in all departments of the game.


But Chappell said his side now needed to rise to the occasion.


"It (bouncing back) is a challenge, but this is what the World
Cup is about. There are going to be some tough days at the office
and you should be able to recover from them and get back," he
said.


"We probably started the process a little bit earlier than we'd
have preferred. There will be many must-win matches in the World
Cup, but it started earlier for us."


Chappell said there was no point in pressing the panic button and
the team needed to return to their winning ways.


"We have to get back to doing what we did in the last two series
in India, and that is playing well. If we start panicking, then
we won't be able to play well. And we have to focus on playing
well," he said.


India won both of their one-day series at home early this year
when they beat the West Indies and Sri Lanka, but floundered
against Bangladesh.


"They (Bangladesh) were too good for us that day. It was the sort
of day we did not want to have at the start of the tournament. We
did not play as well as we could," he said.


"They played very well. They are a young side with talent and
enthusiasm. They bowled and fielded very well and batted with
courage and flair."


The Indian coach said he did not believe that the pitch was to be
blamed for his team's below-par batting performance although it
offered both bounce and movement to Bangladeshi new-ball bowlers
early in the morning.


India could manage just 191, with Sourav Ganguly (66) and Yuvraj
Singh (47) alone defying the Bangladeshi attack.


"We needed a good score to put pressure on Bangladesh, but could
not. They kept some pressure on us and we succumbed to it. They
bowled very well," he said.


"We should have defended the total, but their batsmen came out
with a desire to play aggressively and try and shock our bowlers,
which they managed to do. The young left-hander (Tamim Iqbal)
played some fabulous shots. He's a talented cricketer."

