

Iraqis are feeling increasingly pessimistic and insecure about
their future, four years after the US-led invasion of Iraq,
according to a poll published on Monday.


According to the survey, just 39 percent of Iraqis questioned
think things are going well in their lives, while only 35 percent
think their lives will improve over the next year.


Just 40 percent believe the general situation will improve.


The poll, commissioned by the BBC and US broadcaster ABC News,
made for generally bleak reading, with barely more than a quarter
-- 26 percent -- of respondents saying they felt safe in their
own neighbourhoods.


Other basic necessities were also found to be lacking, with 88
percent of respondents saying the availability of electricity was
either "quite bad" or "very bad".


About 69 percent gave similar responses for the availability of
clean water, and 88 percent said so for the availability of
driving or cooking fuel.


A survey conducted for the BBC in November 2005 painted a much
brighter picture, with 71 percent saying things were good in the
lives, 64 percent saying their lives would be better in 12
months, and 69 percent saying the situation in the country would
be improved in a year.


The increased pessimism was reflected in a 14 percent drop in
support for democracy, with eight percentage point rises in
support for both a strongman and for an Islamic state.


Both local authorities and coalition forces were blamed -- 53
percent were dissatisfied with the performance of the Iraqi
government, while 82 percent said they lacked confidence in
foreign troops.


Some 78 percent opposed the presence of coalition forces, and 69
percent said their presence worsened the security situation.


There was some solace for supporters of the foreign presence in
Iraq, however, as 56 percent did not believe that Iraq was in a
civil war, while 58 percent were in favour of maintaining a
unified Iraq.


Some 63 percent also said that foreign troops should only leave
after security improved and the capacity of Iraq's institutions
was strengthened.


Pollsters D3 Systems questioned more than 2,000 people across all
18 Iraqi provinces between February 25 and March 5 for the
survey.

