

International Cricket Council (ICC) chief Malcolm Speed believes
Bob Woolmer, the Pakistan coach who died here on Sunday at the
age of 58, has left behind a golden legacy.


Former England Test batsman Woolmer died just one day after
Pakistan had crashed out of the World Cup at the hands of
Ireland's part-timers, arguably the greatest shock in the history
of the sport.


"In some ways we can say that Saturday's loss was a great defeat
for Bob and the Pakistan team, but for Bob, there's another way
of looking at it. It was a great triumph because he was the man
who started the ICC development programme and one of the
countries he coached and coached with great passion was Ireland,"
said Speed.


"When we put that into perspective, that for the first time in a
World Cup, one of these countries comes forward and beats one of
the full members, perhaps we can see it in very difficult
circumstances as a triumph."


"Many of us had many heated discussions with Bob because he had
strong views about the way the game should be developed and he
played a very important role with us in those years.


"He then asked to be released from his contract with ICC because
he wanted one last go coaching at the highest level and he'd been
offered the Pakistan job. He undertook that with great enthusiasm
and coached Pakistan for nearly three years."


Woolmer told AFP late Saturday that he felt devastated by his
team's stunning World Cup exit.


"I am deeply hurt and cannot tell you how it is going to affect
me," Woolmer told AFP.


The shock three-wicket defeat at Sabina Park condemned Pakistan,
the 1992 world champions, to an early exit from the 2007
competition.


On Sunday, Woolmer, who took charge of Pakistan in 2004, was
found unconscious in his hotel room and taken to Kingston
University hospital where he was later pronounced dead.


"I am shocked and badly hurt. We have lost a good coach and a
good person," Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq told AFP.


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference at Sabina Park.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Pakistan's bitter rivals India also paid tribute.


"Rahul Dravid, Greg Chappell and all members of the Indian
cricket team are deeply shocked and saddened by the sudden death
of the Pakistan team coach Bob Woolmer," said a team statement.


"Bob has had a distinguished career in cricket as a player for
England and a national coach for South Africa and Pakistan. He
has left an indelible mark on the game that he loved and lived
for.


"We extend our sincere condolences to Bob's family, friends and
all members of the Pakistan cricket team at this sad time."


There had been huge pressure on Woolmer going into the
tournament.


His team forfeited a Test match against England in August 2006 in
a row over ball-tampering before two of his best fast bowlers
Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif were caught up in a doping
scandal.


In his playing career, Woolmer appeared for Kent in the English
county championship and played 19 Tests for England. He has also
coached the South African national team at the 1996 and 1999
World Cups.


Born in the Indian city of Kanpur in 1948, Woolmer missed the
inaugural World Cup in 1975 due to injury.


His playing career ended prematurely as he first joined Kerry
Packer World Series Cricket and then went on rebel tours to South
Africa in 1980s.


Shoaib Akhtar said he was "in shock."


"It is a huge tragedy. We are not ready to believe this has
happened," Shoaib said. "I am completely shattered."


Akthar was pulled out of the tournament hours before Pakistan's
departure for the Caribbean on fitness grounds.


"He was a very dear man, he was a great leader and it's an
unbelievable tragedy," he said.


Legendary allrounder Imran Khan, who captained Pakistan to their
only World Cup triumph in 1992, told AFP he was "extremely
saddened over the untimely death."


"I am really shocked and I offer my deepest condolences to his
family. It's very, very unfortunate," he said.


Despite Woolmer's death, Pakistan said they will still play their
final World Cup group match against Zimbabwe.


Media manager P.J. Mir told AFP: "The Pakistan team will continue
its participation in the tournament. We are due to play Zimbabwe
and we will play that match.

