

Thousands of anti-war protesters took to the streets of New York
Sunday to demand the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq, in a
second day of national rallies to mark the fourth anniversary of
the war.


Organizers from the group United for Peace and Justice said
between 25,000 and 30,000 people marched in the rally, which came
a day after similar mass protests in Washington and Los Angeles.
Police did not estimate the turnout.


A colorful mixture of students, cyclists, Vietnam war veterans
and musicians marched through Midtown Manhattan, drumming and
chanting slogans such as "Troops out now" and calling for
President George W. Bush to be impeached.


Waving placards reading "Drop Bush, Not Bombs," and "Four Years
Too Long," the crowds braved near freezing temperatures as they
marched under clear skies down streets lined with piles of snow.


"This is not a strange lefty movement. This is the voice of the
people," said Hollywood actor and director Tim Robbins, a
prominent and vocal critic of the Iraq war, who was among those
leading the march.


"American people want this war to end, so when are we going to
start listening to them?" he asked. "The main message is to stop
this immoral war."


Conscientious objector Jose Vasquez, a US Army staff sergeant who
refused to be deployed to Iraq, said he believed the anti-war
movement was seeing renewed vigor with the weekend protests.


"If people are willing to listen to what the troops have to say,
they'll find that the military itself is turning against the war,
not unlike what happened during Vietnam," he said.


Besides groups as diverse as the Iraq Veterans Against The War
and the Granny Peace Brigade, families of those killed in Iraq or
those currently deployed there said it was time for the troops to
come home.


"I want the war to stop, I want everyone to come home. I don't
want to see people coming back hurt with brain injuries and
missing limbs," said one woman who gave her name only as Michelle
and whose brother was about to be deployed.


Along the route, the rally passed the offices of New York
senators Hillary Clinton and Charles Schumer.


"We're telling our Congressional representatives that the people
want them to stand up to Bush," said Leslie Kielson, the New York
coordinator for United for Peace and Justice.


"The troops must be brought home now, this war and occupation
must end and it must end now," she pleaded.


The New York rally followed a similar march on the Pentagon, the
Defense Department's headquarters in Washington on Saturday,
which brought tens of thousands of people demanding a US
withdrawal.


Among those at the rally, which came ahead of the fourth
anniversary of the March 20, 2003, invasion of Iraq, was former
US attorney general Ramsey Clark, who called for Bush to be
impeached over his handling of the war.


The march, organized by peace group ANSWER (Act Now To Stop War
And End Racism), met a counter-demonstration by Vietnam war
veterans.


Thousands of protesters also took to the streets in Los Angeles,
blowing whistles and carrying placards bearing slogans critical
of Bush, such as "Worst President Ever" and "It's time for regime
change in Washington."


Ian Thompson, of ANSWER, said the protest was the biggest in the
city since 2005. "People have had enough and this is their way of
showing it," he said.


"This government needs to start listening to what the people
want. And most people don't want us to be fighting war in Iraq,"
Thompson added.


Smaller rallies and demonstrations were also held at up to 3,000
other locations across the United States, according to
organizers.

