

John Collins has challenged his Hibernian heroes to become club
legends by following their League Cup success by lifting the
Scottish Cup.


The Edinburgh side crushed Kilmarnock 5-1 in the Scottish League
Cup final at Hampden Stadium on Sunday to lift their first trophy
since they won the same cup in 1991.


Hibs have now lifted the League Cup three times - having first
won it in 1972 - but they have not got their hands on the
Scottish Cup since 1902.


However, Collins believes the taste of winning silverware on
Sunday could help them complete a cup double by defeating
Dunfermline in the Scottish Cup semi- final before going on to
win the final in May against either Celtic or St Johnstone.


The Hibs boss said: "It's a wonderful feeling to get our hands on
the trophy after 16 years. A generation of our fans had not seen
us lift a cup and so we'll enjoy it for a while before we get
back to business.


"We are in the semi-final of the Scottish Cup and today (Sunday)
we got a taste for it so that will drive the players on to try
and make it to another final. We will work hard in training and
try to get even better.


"It's very important for young players to win things. Once you
get that taste of success then that should drive them on to push
themselves to achieve more.


"Winning the League Cup gives them a taste for it but they can't
sit back and think that's them done, it has to be just a start
for them.


"The players will be heroes in Edinburgh for winning one trophy
this season, but if they can win two then they will become
legends in the city."


During the celebrations of the Hibs players and coaching staff on
the Hampden pitch at the end of Sunday's game, Collins had
appeared to be deep in thought at other matters.


At the end the Hibs manager revealed he had been contemplating
the personal heartache he had suffered in the lead up to the
final.


He said: "I lost my father a few months ago and he had said to me
to win the cup. He was desperate for me to win the cup so he was
with me today.


"My mum was at the final as well. It was her first game as she's
not been very well but hopefully she'll be back next week now."


In near blizzard conditions at Hampden on Sunday Hibs had taken
the lead in the 27th minute when defender Rob Jones connected
with David Murphy's corner to head past Killie goalkeeper Alan
Combe.


Hibs increased their advantage in the 59th minute when Abdessalam
Benjelloun curled a left-foot shot from 18-yards beyond Combe
into the left-hand corner of the net.


Steven Fletcher made it 3-0 in the 66th minute, firing low past
Combe from 16-yards.


Kilmarnock grabbed a glimmer of hope in the 78th minute when
Gordon Greer headed home from six-yards, after Colin Nish had
headed Gary Locke's cross back across goal.


But in the 85th minute Hibs restored their three goal advantage.


Fletcher played the ball inside from the left to Benjelloun and
he took a touch before firing under the body of Combe.


And two minutes later the Killie goalkeeper gifted Hibs with a
fifth when he completely fluffed an attempted clearance,
succeeding only in playing the ball straight to Fletcher who
gratefully rolled the ball into the net.

