

China captain Zheng Zhi earned special praise from Charlton
manager Alan Pardew after his match-winning display against
Newcastle boosted his side's Premiership survival hopes.


Zheng, 26, marked his full Charlton debut by scoring his first
goal for the London club and winning the late penalty that Jerome
Thomas converted to secure a vital 2-0 victory on Sunday.


The midfielder had made just three substitute appearances since
his loan move from Shandong Luneng in the January transfer
window. But he made up for that frustration by inspiring Charlton
to a win that took them within four points of safety.


Pardew admitted Zheng needed time to adapt to English football
but he insists he is ready to play a key role in Charlton's bid
to avoid relegation.


"He has suggested in his little cameos for us that there was
something in there," Pardew said.


"We've taken a long time to integrate him and we're feeling the
benefits of that. He's a good player who is finding his feet very
quickly in the Premiership.


"He's not the type to pull out of a tackle, but his technical
ability is his biggest asset.


"We did toy with playing him at left-back today, which suggests
he can operate just about anywhere, but I think his best position
is in and around the striker where he played in the second half."


Zheng admitted he was just delighted to have been able to impress
his mum, who was watching from the stands, and give her an ideal
Mother's Day gift.


"Of course I was very happy to score and it doesn't matter
whether it is with your head or your foot," Zheng said.


"I had another chance afterwards with my left foot which I regret
missing but I am still very happy and will celebrate tonight with
my family who are here.


"That includes my mother and I know about Mother's Day here. This
was my present to her."


Zheng broke the deadlock at The Valley in the 53rd minute when he
headed home from close range after Darren Bent's free-kick
rebounded to him off the crossbar.


He created Charlton's second goal in the 88th minute with a burst
into the penalty area that was halted by Nolberto Solano and
Thomas stepped up to stroke the penalty past Shay Given.


Charlton looked dead and buried when Pardew took over in December
but his side are now unbeaten in three matches and have piled the
pressure on Sheffield United, Wigan and Manchester City.


The Addicks face potentially decisive clashes againt Wigan and
City in their next two matches and Pardew believes the momentum
is with his third bottom team.


"We're making everyone a bit nervous," he said. "Saturday's
results were disappointing for us, but we can only do what we
need to do.


"Whoever plays us is going to have a tough game and hopefully
we've given a few of the teams around us a horrible afternoon.


"We've managed to keep the momentum going despite a break last
weekend, and hopefully we will keep that going.


"As I sit here now I'm very happy and looking forward to the rest
of the campaign. We can do it."


Newcastle's season is rapidly slipping to an ignominious
conclusion and boss Glenn Roeder said: "In the first half we
showed a good reaction to what happened to us in Europe, but then
paid for some bad misses and for letting the Charlton goalscorer
react to their free-kick hitting the bar."

