

Australian Prime Minister John Howard said Monday he saw "signs
of hope" in Iraq during a weekend visit but that it was too soon
to gauge the success of a US troop "surge", echoing Washington's
view.


The Iraq operation has reached a critical stage and Australia has
no intention of pulling its soldiers out of the US-led coalition,
Howard told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"If the surge can be made to work and if the very cautious signs
of hope and optimism can be converted into something stronger,
then we could well still see a very good outcome," he said.


"Any suggestion that we are going to turn our backs on the
Americans, are going to turn our backs on the Iraqis at this very
critical stage, would be wrong.


Howard's assessment came two months after President George W.
Bush unveiled a last-ditch plan to send 21,500 more combat troops
to Iraq to quell spiralling violence in Baghdad and Al-Anbar
province, west of the capital.


The Australian prime minister met separately with US commander
General David Petraeus and Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
during his brief visit on Saturday.


Petraeus expressed optimism about the security crackdown in
Baghdad but said there was still a long way to go, Howard said.


"General Petraeus has a different approach from his predecessors.
It is an approach that does involve the population and getting
them on side and engaging with them more."


Howard said he was also pleased by his meeting with Maliki.


"I am encouraged the prime minister sees his role as that of a
national leader and not just as a Shia leader. If those
beginnings can grow, then we may see some real hope emerging.


"It is too early to claim anything other than that there are
small, cautiously- based signs of optimism."


Howard is under pressure from the opposition Labor Party to pull
Australia's troops out of Iraqi operations, but he signalled that
even with an election due by the end of the year he had no
intention of withdrawing.


The main focus of the Australians is the training of Iraqi troops
in the south of the country, where Howard said they were doing a
good job.


"I can't begin to understand why the opposition wants to pull out
540 troops who are doing an outstanding job of delivering the
very thing we all want -- that is, a capacity of the Iraqi
security forces to fend for themselves."


"I want the Australian people to understand that the government
remains very committed to its policy."

