

Andy Johnson struck a dramatic injury-time winner to send Arsenal
crashing to a 1-0 defeat against Everton at Goodison Park on
Sunday.


England hitman Johnson, named in Steve McClaren's squad to face
Israel in Tel Aviv next Saturday, took his goals tally for the
season to 11 in the Premiership with his left-foot strike from
Mikel Arteta's 90th minute corner.


A draw seemed the only likely outcome after the home side had
twice struck the woodwork, but Johnson's goal ensured that
Everton climbed to within one point of fifth-placed Bolton in the
race for a UEFA Cup spot.


Everton boss David Moyes praised Johnson and his young strike
partner James Vaughan and said: "I thought we deserved to win
because our performance was excellent. I couldn't have faulted
them even if we had lost because we were playing against a
quality team.


"Andy (Johnson) and James (Vaughan) were always a threat and the
boys at the back were very solid. We really went about our jobs
in the right way."


Liverpool's failure to claim all three points at Aston Villa
earlier in the day had given Arsenal the opportunity to
consolidate third place and move four points clear of Rafa
Benitez's team with victory on Merseyside.


But without the injured Thierry Henry and suspended duo Emmanuel
Adebayor and Emmanuel Eboue, Wenger's men lacked the potency they
usually carry and Everton were the brighter side in the first-
half.


Chances may have been limited, but Johnson's pace was a worry for
the Arsenal defence and the England forward was unlucky not to
win a 10th minute penalty when he roughly bundled to the ground
by goalkeeper Jens Lehmann.


The first real effort on goal did not come until the 26th minute,
but it was a fantastic strike by Everton's Lee Carsley that left
Lehmann completely helpless.


Republic of Ireland midfielder Carsley struck a powerful volley
goalwards from 25 yards, but his effort crashed against the post
to let Arsenal off the hook.


Arsenal's exit from the FA Cup and Champions League in the space
of seven days earlier this month has clearly taken the edge off
their play as they head towards another trophyless season and
their lack of urgency dragged the game down into a tedious scrap.


They seemed happy to settle for a point, so it was left to David
Moyes's team to make all the running until midfielder Cesc
Fabreages brought a fine save from Tim Howard with a close range
strike from Julio Baptista's lay-off two minutes before half-
time.


That near miss fired Arsenal up and Baptista missed a golden
chance to score in first-half stoppage time when he headed over
from six yards from Fabregas's corner.


Prior to this clash, Arsenal had gone a staggering 46 Premiership
games without a 0-0 draw, but that result looked increasingly
likely as both teams again struggled to find the breakthrough
after the interval.


Everton defender Joseph Yobo went close with a back-header from
Carsley's ball into the area which bounced narrowly over
Lehmann's crossbar.


But Arsenal youngster Jeremie Aliadiere summed up his team's luck
in front of goal when he sent Tomas Rosicky's pass high over the
bar from the edge of the six yard box.


As the game plunged deeper and deeper into a non-event, Everton
midfielder Leon Osman came agonisingly close to breaking the
deadlock on 73 minutes when he poked the ball against the post
from 12 yards.


Yet again, the woodwork came to Arsenal's rescue, but their luck
finally ran out when Johnson fired his powerful strike past
Lehmann one minute into stoppage time.

