

Canada captain John Davison is fearful for the future of his
country's progress as a cricket nation unless a more professional
set-up is put in place.


A Canada side boasting just one full-time pro in opening batsman
Geoff Barnett, who plays for New Zealand's Central Districts,
bounced back from a seven-wicket thrashing in their World Cup
opener by Kenya, with a highly creditable display in a 51-run
defeat by Test giants England here Sunday.


During the course of the Group C game Canada, while never truly
looking like winning, comfortably avoided being bowled out as
they finished on 228 for seven - their highest total in a World
Cup match.


It was a notable achievement for a team featuring a salesman, a
telephone technician and a teacher among a variety of full-time
occupations.


And fork-lift truck-driver Sunil Dhaniram also had a match to
remember when taking three wickets for seven runs in 11 balls
with his left-arm spin to spark an England middle-order collapse.


Four years ago Davison secured his place in cricket history by
scoring the fastest World Cup century, off 67 balls, against the
West Indies at Centurion.


But the 36-year-old former South Australia off-spinner said
Canada needed a proper system for bringing through players.


"The most important thing for Canadian cricket is that we get
some sort of infrastructure in place," Davison explained.


"The Canadian Cricket Association doesn't have anyone who is
employed by the association. It's basically done on a voluntary
basis.


"If we want to compete at this level we are going to have to be
semi- professional at least if not professional."


Most of Canada's squad at the World Cup discovered cricket
overseas. For example Dhaniram, 38, played for the Caribbean
island of Guyana and 40-year-old fast bowler Anderson Cummins
represented the West Indies at the 1992 World Cup.


However, Davison insisted homegrown players were coming through
the ranks.


"There's definitely talented players in the country. We need them
to be coached properly and brought through a system."


A partnership of 96 between two of Canada's younger players, the
27-year-old Abdool Samad, who made 36 and the 26-year-old Ashif
Mulla, who batted impressively for 58, offered hope of bright
days ahead for the North Americans.


And Davison said he would be around to share in them for a little
while longer yet, even suggesting he could play in the next World
Cup, in 2011, as a 40-year- old.


"We've got a four-day game coming up against Ireland in the
Intercontinental Cup in May and I'll definitely be playing in
that.


"And I'll believe I'll play in the next (World Cup) qualifiers in
two years' time and after that we'll see how we go."


Davison said Canada and all the other associate or junior nations
at the World Cup could take heart from Ireland's shock win
against Pakistan on Saturday which knocked the Asian cricket
power out of the World Cup.


"I thought they were brilliant," said Davison.


"The way they fielded, the catching in the slips and the way the
skipper (Trent Johnson) polished it off with a six, was great. We
are good mates with most of the associate nations and we were on
their side."

