

Former Formula One racer Juan Pablo Montoya of Colombia drove to
a fifth-place finish Sunday at the Kobalt 500, his best showing
so far on the prime US stock car circuit since making the switch.


Montoya was an open-wheel star in Indy-car before his F1 days and
is quickly becoming a force in the National Association for Stock
Car Auto Racing (NASCAR) scene after winning a development-series
race in Mexico City on March 4.


"I loved it. It was a great job," Montoya said. "My pit stops
were amazing.  It is nice to get a top-five here. We're getting
the hang of it."


Montoya also finished eighth in a development series race here
Saturday, serving notice he is quickly finding his form against
drivers with years of experience in the oval bump-and-run show.


"This was an exceptionally good weekend," said Montoya. "The
top-10 I had in the (first) race was huge. Man, I was nearly more
excited in the Busch race on Saturday than when I won at Mexico
City.


"Mexico is one of those places where I expected to be good and
competitive. Here I wasn't expecting to be this far along. It has
been great."


Montoya watched the F1 season opener in Australia and made it
clear he does not miss the global series, saying he turned the
television off quickly because he was bored.


"By lap three, Kimi Raikkonen had it by six seconds, so what else
are you going to watch?" Montoya said.


Montoya has great respect for his new racing rivals and the more
fierce passing of NASCAR.


"I've been very respectful of them. They are great drivers," he
said.  "They are making my life tough. It's hard work, but
something that is amazing is how clean they race.


"They give you room if you get a run and you better give them
room if they get a run. You learn to play that way and it just
makes racing awesome."


Defending season points champion Jimmie Johnson passed Tony
Stewart with two laps remaining and held on to capture the
victory, the 25th of his career in the closed-cockpit series.


Johnson praised Montoya for making moves even high-speed oval
veterans fear to attempt, enjoying the high line rather than the
more common low path.


"He was rim-riding on top of the track, and when an open-wheel
guy can do that, it shows what a great driver he is," Johnson
said. "Montoya did a great job. He should be very proud of the
effort he had. Juan on the short run was better than most."


Matt Kenseth, who finished third, thought Montoya was going to
win the race.


"When I was running fifth and he blew my doors off running the
high side, what I said was, 'He's going to win the race if he
doesn't hit the wall.' I thought he was going to (win) because he
was flying up there," Kenseth said.


"He's a great driver and if they can give him a car that can
contend, he's going to contend."


The title chase resumes next Sunday at Bristol, Tennessee, where
Montoya was among drivers testing the new "Car of Tomorrow" last
month who were concerned about how the car would handle the
.533-mile oval.


"The next (races) are going to be hard. Bristol is going to be a
nightmare, Martinsville will be hard.  Darlington - let's not
even talk about that one.


"But in the second half of the season when I get to the tracks
I've been to and I know what setups to run, we should be in good
shape for the win."

