

Aston Villa manager Martin O'Neill has set his side a strict
target of 40 points to ensure that his season does not end with
the misery of relegation.


Villa limped to a dour stalemate with Liverpool to take O'Neill's
miserable run to just two wins in 19 matches, leaving them nine
points clear of the Premiership drop zone.


After such a bright start to O'Neill's reign at Villa Park, the
feel-good factor has long since evaporated and, after Charlton's
victory over Newcastle, O'Neill is now preparing for a nerve-
wracking end to the campaign.


He said: "Until you get the number of points you need you can
never feel really comfortable. We've got a point today and we're
not far off sides above us.


"It's the normal number of points, around the 40 mark that we
will need, and we need to get them as soon as possible. Until you
get them you're always going to be concerned.


"We've got loads to play for, which is what I've told them. You
cannot feel comfortable in this situation and I can't imagine
that the season being over is in the players' thoughts.


"We didn't play well enough to break Liverpool down and naturally
the responsibility of that rests with me. We were maybe lacking
in a bit of confidence. We had a few comfortable situations that
we made uncomfortable for ourselves.


"We have played much much better and not got anything this
season. But it's our job to do better at home."


Fortune is also eluding the Northern Irishman, with Villa's best
chance of securing three vital points denied by referee Lee Mason
after Steve Finnan's clear push on Stiliyan Petrov.


O'Neill said: "I've seen it back and it looks a penalty to me.
But in keeping with the game it didn't go for us."


With second place in the Premiership almost certainly out of
reach, Liverpool's focus for the remainder of the campaign is the
Champions League, with a difficult encounter against PSV
Eindhoven to come next month.


Their minds looked elsewhere for most of the game as they
struggled to break down opponents that cannot wait for the season
to end.


But they still had perhaps the best chance of a turgid encounter,
with Danish international goalkeeper Thomas Sorensen saving
O'Neill from a damaging defeat with an excellent stop from Robbie
Fowler's header a minute from the end.


Liverpool boss Rafa Benitez also substituted England midfielder
Steven Gerrard towards the end, ahead of his country's crunch
encounter with Israel next weekend.


But Benitez was as unimpressed with the game as the 42,551 people
who saw it at Villa Park.


Benitez said: "It wasn't a good game. But we are closer to
finishing in the top four of the league and that has to be a good
thing.


"When you come thinking of a win and you come away with a point
then obviously it is disappointed.


"They were claiming for a penalty towards the end of the first
half but my players say that the player dived. Steven had a kick
on the shin but he is fine."

