

Everton boss David Moyes backed Andy Johnson to solve England's
goalscoring problem against Israel next week after the striker's
last minute goal sealed a 1-0 win for the Merseysiders against
Arsenal on Sunday.


Johnson's late effort lifted Everton into sixth spot in the race
for Europe and also dented Arsenal's hopes of keeping Liverpool
at bay in the hunt for the third Champions League position.


But with Johnson in the squad for England's crucial Euro 2008
qualifier in Tel Aviv next Saturday, Moyes insisted that the 8.6m
pound forward can handle the pressure of leading Steve McClaren's
strike-force.


Moyes said: "Andy is definitely up to the task with England,
especially if they have people in the team who are capable of
playing him through. If that happens, Andy will get in the right
positions.


"He is always a threat on the shoulder of defenders and if he
plays for his country next week, he won't let anybody down,
especially if he is played in his favoured position through the
middle."


Despite the late victory, Moyes admits that his team still face a
battle to secure a European spot this season.


He said: "Europe isn't going to be easy, but you have to hope
that you can win a couple of games that people don't expect you
to win. Maybe this was one of them.


"I thought we deserved it, though. The players worked hard, were
very positive and kept going right to the end. We had some big
performances, but we needed them. Our forwards always a threat,
but it is very hard to pick any faults in any of my players after
that performance.


"When we hit the woodwork twice, I did begin to think that it
wasn't our day, but we were positive throughout the game and we
kept on pressing for the result.


"The players showed character and belief, but I never that they
had that. They are a great set of lads and I just wanted them to
show it on the pitch."


With several key players, including Thierry Henry, Robin van
Persie and Emmanuel Adebayor unavailable, Arsenal struggled to
threaten Everton's goal, despite dominating possession.


And Gunners boss Arsene Wenger admits that his players must
quickly rediscover their form to seal a Champions League spot.


Wenger said: "It's a disappointing result because we are still
not guaranteed to be in the top four. We must keep going because
we have some very difficult games and a difficult programme
ahead.


"Mentally, it is very hard without our experienced players. We
lost at Blackburn in the last minute, against PSV and now here at
Everton. We miss the mental strength that we need to deal with
these things.


"It was a scrappy, dour game, though, with very little spark from
either team. Everton used the long ball a lot, but despite our
possession, we were jaded physically and and our finishing wasn't
accurate enough."


Meanwhile, Wenger revealed that teenage forward Theo Walcott will
undergo shoulder surgery on Tuesday that will end his season.


He said: "Theo has been 50 percent the player that we know he can
be because of the injury. He cannot play on like that and will
have surgery on Tuesday."

