

China has approved a plan to build large passenger aircraft to
compete with Boeing and Airbus, who together currently dominate
the market here, the government and state-run media said Monday.


The decision was made at a meeting of the Cabinet presided over
by Premier Wen Jiabao after listening to details of a feasibility
study on the project, the State Council said in a statement
posted on the government's website.


The plan is to "design and build airplanes that can carry more
than 150 passengers and compete with Airbus and Boeing," the
state-run China Daily said in a report.


The newspaper characterised the move as "a major strategic
decision" and said the project will begin "as soon as possible."


In the statement, the Cabinet also said it has approved a plan to
set up a company to manufacture large aircraft.


China has the technical and material capabilities to develop
large aircraft, having been building its aviation industry for 50
years, the statement said.


China's experience has so far been limited to manufacturing
smaller, regional aircraft, with the ARJ-21, holding up to 105
seats, expected to begin delivery in 2009, according to state
media.


The Cabinet meeting was held on February 26. It did not explain
why it took three weeks to announce the decision to the public.


There have been previous indications in public statements and
media reports that China had ambitions in the market for large
passenger aircraft.


China Aviation Corp I, a major aerospace company, said earlier
this month it was looking to develop a new generation of aircraft
engines to reduce its reliance on foreign manufacturers.


"As a country with a huge demand for large-sized planes, it is
absolutely unimaginable to rely on imports of aero-engines for
long," Liu Daxiang, the company's deputy chief of science and
technology, told the China Daily.


China's new-generation engines must be more powerful than those
in use in current Airbus or Boeing aircraft, Liu said.


According to the latest market outlook from China Aviation Corp
I, China will need 2,230 large aircraft by 2025.


This forecast comes on the back of impressive growth rates in
civil aviation in China, fueled by an economy that expanded by
10.7 percent last year.


Some 160 million passengers flew on Chinese airlines during 2006,
a rise of 15 percent on the previous year, according to
previously released local aviation statistics.

