

Oil prices were mixed in Asian trade Monday after the
Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) kept its
production quota unchanged, dealers said.


At 10:30 am (0230 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in April, was up 19 cents to 57.30
US dollars a barrel from 57.11 dollars in late US trades Friday.


Brent North Sea crude for May fell 38 cents to 60.30 dollars.


"We have just seen some fairly big falls last week because of
worries over the (US) economy ... there are still fears about the
market but gasoline (petrol) rebounded and this kept the market
strong," said Mitsubishi Corp. energy risk manager Tony Nunan in
Tokyo.


"Gasoline rallied on Friday after Thursday's profit-taking ...
the momentum is carrying on from Friday," he said.


With winter drawing to a close, participants are increasingly
concerned about gasoline supplies ahead of the US peak driving
season in May. Over the past few weeks, US gasoline inventories
have been on the decline.


Nunan said oil prices would be heading higher on this lead.


Oil fell last week after OPEC maintained its daily output target
at 25.8 million barrels at its ministerial meeting in Vienna,
arguing that global supply levels are healthy.


"That outcome was widely anticipated ... if anything it's a
little bearish for the market because OPEC has not fully
implemented the full (previous) output cuts. The one thing that
is saving them is the cold weather in the US and that gasoline
demand is strong," Nunan said.


The 12-nation cartel cut production at its two previous meetings
in October and December. In its monthly report, OPEC said world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007, matching its
forecasts in January and February.


OPEC's only surprise was its announcement to meet in September,
skipping an expected June meeting, analysts said. The cartel said
its next meeting would be an ordinary session in Vienna on
September 11.


The move suggested "they are in no hurry to raise output again,"
said Tim Evans, a Citigroup analyst.

