

US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said Sunday it was too soon
to know whether the US troop "surge" in Iraq is making progress,
as the White House fended off heavy pressure to wind up the war
four years after it began.


Eight weeks into President George W. Bush's last-ditch plan to
send 21,500 more combat troops to Iraq to quell out-of-control
violence in Baghdad and Al-Anbar provinces, Gates said operations
needed a few more months before a real estimate of progress can
be made.


"I think that the way I would characterize it is, so far so
good," said Gates, adding however that "it's very early" to make
a more definitive assessment.


"General (David) Petraeus, the commander out there, has said that
it will probably be summer before we know whether we're being
successful or not," he told CBS television's "Face the Nation."


Gates added that he is also generally happy with how Iraqi forces
are performing since the United States began deploying its
reinforcements, which, with support troops will number more than
25,000.


"I would say that the Iraqis are meeting the commitments that
they have made to us, that they have made the appointments, the
troops that they have promised are showing up," Gates said.


"We're basically buying them time," Gates said.


"That's the whole purpose of this strategy. They are going to
have to step up to the plate, and we can help them by giving them
the time to do that, and to make their military forces able to
carry the burden by themselves."


Gates was speaking ahead of the fourth anniversary of the March
20, 2003 US invasion to depose Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, as
hundreds of thousands of people attended protests worldwide
against the war.


In the United States, tens of thousands joined weekend
demonstrations in Washington and across the country, demanding an
immediate pullout from Iraq, where more than 3,200 US soldiers
have died, including eight more this weekend.


But on Saturday, Bush defended the war effort and warned that an
early withdrawal would be "disastrous."


In his weekly radio address he reiterated his determination to
veto any measure from the opposition Democrat-controlled Congress
to mandate a pullout from Iraq.


On Thursday the Senate rejected a Democrat bill to set a
timetable to remove combat troops by March 2008.


But next week the House of Representatives is expected to
consider crucial budget legislation for the war that carries a
clause requiring a US withdrawal by September 2008.


"Congress needs to approve emergency funding for our troops,
without strings and without delay. If they send me a bill that
does otherwise, I will veto it," Bush said Saturday.


Separately Sunday, White House national security adviser Stephen
Hadley said setting a troop deadline would leave Iraq as a safe
haven for terrorists.


"We need to get into a position where the Iraqis can take
responsibility for security successfully," Hadley told ABC
television.


"If the Iraqi forces cannot handle the situation, which is the
case now, we have Iraq as a safe haven for terrorists, who will
destabilize their neighbors and attack us."


"If we succeed, we've got an Iraq that is an ally in the war on
terror," he said of the US surge strategy.


"The problem is arbitrary timelines ... That is mandating
failure."


However, congressional backers of a deadline rejected the idea
that the troop surge strategy was going to change what the
Pentagon this week acknowledged was a civil war in Iraq.


"This will not change the fundamental dynamics," said Democratic
Senator John Kerry.


He said the Iraqi government needs the pressure of a deadline to
seriously address its own problems.


"It's time for the Iraqis to assume the responsibility for Iraq,"
Kerry said on Fox News Sunday.

