

China's swimmers come into the world championships here with the
Beijing Olympics on their mind, but they are under a cloud with
at least two leading coaches voicing scepticism about their team.


American head coach Mark Schubert has made clear the sport will
not tolerate a repeat of the 1994 world championships, when
Chinese swimmers performed beyond expectations amid widespread
suspicion of doping.


"There's a history and where there's a history, there's
suspicion, but I would prefer (to think) that they have cleaned
up their act," Schubert told the Melbourne Age newspaper.


"There's no doubt that everybody will be watching closely.


"I think the big change came at the 1994 world championships in
Rome.


"That's where basically all the coaches stood up and said, 'No
more, we don't respect this, we know what's happening and we need
to change it'."


Later that same year seven swimmers tested positive for steroids
at the 1994 Asian Games in Hiroshima, which left the squad so
decimated that China won only one swimming gold at the Atlanta
Olympics two years later.


The decline was only temporary and by 1998 China's women were
rising back to the top -- until four more positive tests and the
discovery of Human Growth Hormone in a swimmer's luggage at that
year's world championships in Perth.


It left their reputation in tatters and since then China has
repeatedly failed to present its strongest teams at world
meetings outside of the Olympics.


China has since made a concerted effort to crack down on drug
cheats, but there have been setbacks.


In April 2002 Ying Shan, a member of China's world record-setting
4x100m freestyle team from the 1997 world shortcourse champs, and
compatriot Jiawei Zhou, tested positive for an anabolic steroid.


While not connected to swimming, organised doping was uncovered
at a Chinese sports school last August.


Australian coach Ken Wood told the same newspaper that he
suspects China is secretly grooming a group of swimmers that it
will unleash at the Beijing Olympics, where it is anxious to
succeed for national prestige.


But he stopped short of suggesting the Chinese were evading drug
testers by not sending them to the world championships.


"When they identified those 100 swimmers 18 months ago, 50 of
them have disappeared, you don't know what they are going to do,"
Wood was quoted as saying.


"I don't think they really want their really top swimmers to rank
up in the top 50. They probably are already but no one knows.


"That's my opinion, I don't want to get into too much of a
controversy about the Chinese, but I wouldn't think they would
show their full hand down here.


"I think Beijing's going to be the one and I just think they're
keeping them away and training them in the different area and
competing among themselves, for whatever reason."


The Chinese team has kept a low profile in Melbourne and could
not be reached for comment.


They have sent 45 swimmers to these world titles, including
female breaststroker Qi Hui, ranked two in the world, and male
butterflier Wu Peng, also ranked two, but the squad is largely
young and inexperienced.


"Wu Peng and Zhang Lin are the favorites to win a gold in the
men's team, while for the women, Qi Hui is the best bet," head
coach Zhang Yaodong told China's Titan Sports recently.


China's men have never won a gold at a world championships or
Olympic Games, and if Wu is to end the jinx in the 200m butterfly
he must beat world number one Michael Phelps of the United
States.


In the women's side, hopes rest with Qi Hui, who will compete in
the 200m and 400m individual medleys, as well as the 200m
breaststroke.

