

The United States on Sunday said it will deal with the new
Palestinian government only if it vows to forgo violence and
promises to fully recognize Israel.


US national security adviser Stephen Hadley laid down that hard
line in remarks on US television, after Palestinian Prime
Minister Ismail Haniya, in a speech to parliament, insisted on
his new government's right to all forms of resistance, rejecting
a key international condition for acceptance.


"This government needs to renounce terror and violence," Hadley
told CNN.


"It needs to acknowledge the right of Israel to exist," he said,
adding that those conditions so far have not been met.


"We will not deal with this government until it accepts those
principles," he said. "We'll be watching obviously for the words
and deeds of this government."


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has complained that the new
government's program falls short of previous Western demands for
a commitment to non-violence and recognition of the Jewish
state's right to exist and urged an international boycott.


Meanwhile, the US State Department Sunday echoed Hadley, saying
Haniya's remarks flouted the principles espoused by the Quartet
guiding Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts -- the United States,
European Union, United Nations and Russia.


"The speech was disappointing and inconsistent with the Quartet
principles, as well as a missed opportunity to affirm the
national unity government's adherence to the foundational
principles for peace," spokeswoman Nancy Bell said Sunday.


The new Palestinian cabinet -- uniting long-time rivals Fatah and
Hamas -- met for the first time in Gaza City and by video link in
Ramallah, a day after Haniya presented his government's program
to parliament.


In that speech he included a vow to secure the release of
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit and to expand a truce in
the Gaza Strip.


However, Haniya -- a member of Hamas -- also proclaimed
Palestinians' right to all forms of resistance, an assertion Bell
called "disturbing."


"The national unity government's reference to right of resistance
is disturbing and contradicts directly the quartet principle of
renunciation of violence," she said.


"We will continue to work with President (Mahmoud) Abbas who was
directly elected by the Palestinian people on a platform of
peace, and who has reaffirmed his continuing commitment to these
principles and to partnership in pursuit of peace," Bell said.


She reiterated Washington's view that "any Palestinian government
must renounce violence, recognize Israel and respect previous
agreements and obligations between the parties."


Bell added: "These are foundational principles upon which any
Palestinian state must be based. A Palestinian state will not be
born from terror."


Washington urged the new government to commence its rule by
"freeing Corporal Shalit, disbanding illegal security units and
preventing acts of terror."

