

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer died in hospital here on
Sunday after being found unconscious on the floor of his World
Cup hotel room, an official confirmed.


Woolmer, a former England Test player and South Africa coach, was
58 years old.


P.J. Mir, Pakistan's media manager, told tv channel ARYONE from
the West Indies: "Bob Woolmer has passed away. I am speaking from
the hospital and all the team management is also at the hospital.


"Doctors have pronounced Bob Woolmer dead. Bob has passed away
and it is very shocking news to all of the team and the team
mamangement.


"Bob's family and wife were informed by the management about his
condition when he was brought to hospital."


Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup on Saturday after a
shock three- wicket defeat to Ireland. Woolmer was last seen in
public when he addressed the post-match media conference at the
Sabina Park ground.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Sky Sports had earlier reported that Woolmer was found at 1045
local time (1545GMT) on the floor of his hotel room unconscious
and with signs of vomiting.


An ambulance took him to the Kingston University Hospital.


Woolmer, who took charge of the Pakistan team in 2004, was seen
late on Saturday night, but officials raised the alarm after not
seeing him early on Sunday.


When they went to his hotel room, they saw he was unconscious.


In his playing career, Woolmer appeared for Kent in the English
county championship and played 19 Tests for England.


He has also coached the South African national team.


Fate brought him to Pakistan in 2004 as coach, regarded the
country's hottest post which had seen five changes since 1999
until his arrival.


He forged a strong relationship with captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and
saw to it that the skilful cricketers always remained strong in
basics.


Born in the Indian city of Kanpur in 1948, Woolmer missed the
inaugural World Cup in 1975 due to injury.


His playing career ended prematurely as he first joined Kerry
Packer World Series Cricket and then went on rebel tours to South
Africa in 1980s.


He steadily developed into a renowned coach, and was credited
with pioneering the use of computers in cricket.


Pakistan face Zimbabwe on Wednesday in their final World Cup
group match.


Andrew Walpole, spokesman for the England team at the World Cup,
said: "Our thoughts are with Bob's family. This has come as a
huge shock to all of the England team.


"He was a figure who commanded great respect within world cricket
and he will be sorely missed."

