

Yao Ming scored 24 points and grabbed 10 rebounds to lead the
Houston Rockets to a record-setting 124-74 National Basketball
Association rout of Philadelphia here Sunday.


The 7-foot-6 Chinese superstar center sat out the entire fourth
quarter as did teammate Tracy McGrady, who added 21 points and
eight assists as the Rockets imposed the 76ers' most lopsided
home loss in their 58-year history.


"I've never been a part of anything where we beat a team by 50
points," said McGrady. "We did a great job of shutting everything
down as far as their offensive end.


"Our defense was superb. In order for us to be great, that's how
we have to play every night."


It was the third-worst home loss in NBA history and a season-low
point total for the 76ers, whose worst prior home loss was a
139-91 defeat in 1972 by New York.


"That was a whipping from start to finish," 76ers coach Mo Cheeks
said. "From the start of the game to the end of the game they
just beat us, from beginning to end, coaches to players."


The Rockets scored a season-high total but fell just shy of their
most lopsided triumph, a 139-87 romp over New Jersey in 1978.


"We just came out ready to play," McGrady said. "The shots went
for us in the first quarter and we established our defense right
away. We set the tone and we didn't look back.


"It all about executing.  We're preparing for something special
this year and we have a certain amount of games to prepare
ourselves for the playoffs. Everything that we needed to do in
order for us to win this game, we did it."


The Rockets, 42-25 and fifth in the Western Conference,
outrebounded the 76ers 54-36. Houston began the game with a 26-8
run, led 59-40 at halftime and opened the second half with a 22-7
run as McGrady and Yao achieved liftoff.


"Yao Ming is a monster," 76ers playmaker Kyle Korver said.


"I've seen about 100 times and everytime I see him, I'm just
like, 'Man, you are the biggest man in the world.' He has got a
great touch. You really have to crowd him or else he can shoot
over top of you. He's just a very good player."


Korver scored 17 points for the 76ers, who at 26-41 are 4 1/2
games behind Indiana for the final Eastern Conference playoff
spot.


"It's tough, but we've had a lot of tough things happen to us
this season so this is not going to break us by any means,"
Korver said. "It's a tough loss, no doubt about it."

