

Australian captain Ricky Ponting admitted that the death of
Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer has put the significance of winning
the World Cup into harsh perspective.


Ponting said that he heard the news of the 58-year-old's death
while he was in the field during his side's routine 229-run win
over the Netherlands at Warner Park here on Sunday.


"One of our 12th men bringing drinks out told us about it
(Woolmer's death). Everyone just stood back in shock for quite a
while," said Ponting after his team wrapped up their second win
of the tournament.


Former England Test batsman Woolmer died in a Kingston hospital
after being found unconscious in his room at the Pakistan team
hotel.


His death came just hours after Pakistan's humiliating defeat by
Ireland which knocked them out of the World Cup.


"When I was out in the field I was thinking about lots of
different things for probably the last 10 or 12 overs of the game
and I was also thinking of the news," added Ponting.


"For me personally and as a player of this team, we pass on our
condolences to the Woolmer family and everyone he has known over
the years. Everybody was immediately saddened by what we heard.


"We have played a game of cricket, but there are a lot of bigger
things happening around the world.


"There always is. We sometimes get a bit carried away with what
we do in sport. But when something like this happens it certainly
rams home that there are other things happening around you all
the time."


Ponting was happy with his team's progress towards achieving a
hat-trick of World Cup titles.


They opened their campaign with a resounding 202-run win over
Scotland last week.


"Things have come together pretty well. We are pretty pleased
with the last two matches. Our batting has looked very, very good
- the intent we have shown has been very encouraging," said
Ponting.


Australia rode on a brilliant 123 by Brad Hodge and unbeaten 93
by Michael Clarke to post an impressive 358-5 in their allotted
50 overs before bowling the Netherlands out for 129 in 26.5
overs.


The Australian captain was all praise for Hodge.


"He bowled some handy overs against Scotland and he gets around
the field very well. He's a very complete one-day player. At the
moment he's putting a great case forward for staying in the
team," said Ponting of Hodge who has replaced injured all-rounder
Andrew Symonds in the side.


But Ponting still demanded some improvements against South
Africa, their closest rivals for the title and whom they meet
next in Group A on Saturday.


"I still think there is a little bit of room for improvement --
which you'll see on Saturday."


Netherlands captain Luuk van Troost said Australia and South
Africa posed different challenges.


"I think they were pretty equal to each other. South Africa have
a few more hard hitters, but Australia have a very good spinner -
which may be South Africa are missing," said van Troost, whose
team lost four wickets to Aussie left-arm spinner Brad Hogg.


Man-of-the-match Hodge said he is relishing his chance of playing
in the team.


"I am really enjoying playing cricket at the moment," said Hodge,
32.


"It's something I've enjoyed the whole summer and there's not a
great deal more I can do personally.


"It's a simple recipe at the moment. I feel I'm playing as good
as I can ever play, it's just an enjoyable time for me.


"To get to a century was a great personal milestone, especially
after getting a couple of 90s," said Hodge whose previous best
one-day score was 99 made against New Zealand at Melbourne last
month.

