

Cricket's World Cup was plunged into mourning on Sunday after
Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer collapsed and died just hours after
his team had been humiliated by Ireland's part-timers.


Woolmer, 58, was a former England Test batsman and ex-South
Africa coach and widely regarded as one of the most innovative
coaches in the game.


He was discovered unconscious in his hotel room in Kingston and
was later pronounced dead at a city hospital.


His death overshadowed the sixth day of action at the World Cup
which saw defending champions Australia crush the Netherlands by
229 runs and England claim a 51-run victory against Canada.


Woolmer, who had been in the Pakistan hot seat since 2004, had
told AFP late Saturday that he felt devastated by his team's
stunning World Cup exit at the hands of Ireland.


"I am deeply hurt and cannot tell you how it is going to affect
me," Woolmer said.


The shock three-wicket defeat at Sabina Park condemned Pakistan,
the 1992 world champions, to an early exit from the 2007
competition.


"I am shocked and badly hurt. We have lost a good coach and a
good person," Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq told AFP.


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference at Sabina Park.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed
said: "We are all greatly saddened by Bob Woolmer's passing. He
was a great cricket man. His life was devoted to cricket."


England's first win of the World Cup was overshadowed by all-
rounder Andrew Flintoff being stripped of his country's vice-
captaincy and dropped from the game with Canada in St Lucia.


Flintoff was axed after reports he'd been one of a number of
players who'd stayed out drinking until the early hours of
Saturday morning following the six- wicket defeat by New Zealand.


"I know that what I did on Friday night was completely wrong and
I have to take full responsibility for it," said Flintoff.


"There can be no excuses on my part. I know I shouldn't have done
what I did and I have to accept the punishment."


On the field, England made 279 for six after being sent in.
England's Irish-born left-handed opener Ed Joyce top-scored with
66 while Paul Collingwood finished on 62 not out off 48 balls
with one six and four fours.


In St Kitts, Brad Hodge hit a maiden one-day hundred and Michael
Clarke scored an unbeaten half-century to help Australia achieve
a thumping 229-run win over Netherlands which virtually
guarantees their place in the second round Super Eights.


Hodge scored 123 and shared an invaluable 204-run fourth wicket
stand with Michael Clarke (93 not out) to help Australia reach
358-5 after electing to bat.


The Netherlands were then unable to cope with the Australian
bowling attack  and were dismissed for 129 in 26.5 overs.

