

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer, who died here on Sunday, told
AFP late Saturday that he felt devastated by his team's stunning
World Cup exit at the hands of Ireland.


"I am deeply hurt and cannot tell you how it is going to affect
me," Woolmer told AFP, saying he would answer more questions on
email later in the week.


The shock three-wicket defeat at Sabina Park condemned Pakistan,
the 1992 world champions, to an early exit from the 2007
competition.


On Sunday, the 58-year-old was found unconscious on the floor of
his hotel room here and taken to Kingston University hospital
where he was later pronounced dead.


"I am shocked and badly hurt. We have lost a good coach and a
good person," Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq told AFP.


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference at Sabina Park.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm
Speed, speaking at the Beausejour Cricket Ground in St Lucia
where England were playing Canada in a World Cup match, said: "We
are all greatly saddened by Bob Woolmer's passing. He was a great
cricket man. His life was devoted to cricket."


Speed added that the ICC were working with the Pakistan Cricket
Board on paying an appropriate tribute to Woolmer during the
World Cup.


Former England captain Mike Denness, an established Kent player
when Woolmer broke into the county side in the late 1960s, said:
"He was a great lad, a great motivator. He was a bit eccentric at
times but it is a terrible loss. It really hits you very hard
when someone you've played with passes away.


"I feel very sorry for his wife, Gill and his family. I don't
know whether this is a result of of the pressure and tension of
the World Cup but Pakistan obviously wanted to do as well as
everyone else and he would feel for them.


"I remember going to his house in Cape Town and many years ago he
showed me his work room. He had everything on computers even
then. This was before the technology was readily available and he
showed me how he was going to monitor things and study each
player's performance.


"He was one of the first to really work on the reverse-sweep
shot, he probably worked at it too much.


"He taught people to go back when they were playing it rather
than go forward to give batsmen more room to play and he
developed a lot of that."


Andrew Walpole, spokesman for the England team at the World Cup,
said: "Our thoughts are with Bob's family. This has come as a
huge shock to all of the England team.


"He was a figure who commanded great respect within world cricket
and he will be sorely missed."

