

Board directors of British energy giant BP were informed of the
link between reduced spending and poor levels of maintenance at
its Texas City refinery about 18 months before a fatal explosion
there, The Observer reported on Sunday.


Citing documents it had seen, the weekly newspaper said in
November 2003  then BP chief executive for refining and marketing
John Manzoni saw a presentation that linked the "history of
reduced investment" at the refinery with "poor maintenance
practices".


According to The Observer, the presentation also made clear that
the refinery was weak on safety, integrity and maintenance.


Fifteen people died and more than 100 workers were injured in the
March 2005 explosion in Texas City.


One of the slides in the presentation states that total fixed
costs there peaked at 727 million dollars (545.8 million euros)
in the early 1990s, but subsequently dropped to 347 million by
1999, with a graph on the same page showing capital spending
dropping from 1992.


The presentation is thought to form part of the evidence in an
investigation by the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation
Board (CSB) into the accident. It was obtained by lawyers
representing victims of the explosion.


The CSB issued a preliminary report on the incident in November
and is expected to publish its full report on Tuesday.


In the November document, CSB chairwoman Carolyn Merritt accused
BP of letting "over-zealous cost-cutting" undermine safety.


A spokesman for BP, however, was quoted by The Observer as
saying: "Previous budget decisions were not a critical factor
leading to this tragedy."


Chappell also told the paper that BP's own internal review
concluded in December 2005 that human error was to blame for the
explosion.


In January, a committee chaired by former US secretary of state
James Baker said in a report that BP had "significant" saftey
deficiencies at all five of its US refineries.


The independent panel, set up to probe the Texas City blast,
found that "instances of a lack of operating discipline,
toleration of serious deviations from safe operating practices,
and apparent complacency towards serious process safety risks
existed at each of the US refineries."

