

When the black-capped chickadee chirps out a warning of predators
closing in, not only its closest feathered friends pay attention.


The red-breasted nuthatch, another small native North American
songbird, is also listening in and can interpret the finer points
of the chickadees' early warning system.


"They can figure out how dangerous the predator is from the type
of call," explained Christopher Templeton, co-author of the study
released Monday.


Black-capped chickadees are one of the most common backyard birds
in North America, but their vocalizations are among the most
complex in the animal kingdom.


A slight variation in their song can convey whether a predator is
flying or perched, and whether the predator is large or small.


When a chickadee spots a stationary or perched predator, it uses
a loud, wide- spectrum chick-a-dee-dee-dee alarm to recruit other
birds to harass, or mob, the predator and chase it off.


Its unique acoustic capabilities make the chickadee a valuable
sentinel. But the nuthatch is no slouch.


While dozens of other birds eavesdrop on the chickadee's alarm
calls, only the nuthatch has figured out how to decode all of the
intelligence encoded in the calls, according to researchers at
the University of Washington.


When Templeton played recordings of the chickadees' mobbing calls
over speakers in the woods of Missoula, Montana, nuthatches
reacted differently depending on whether the call was coded for a
smaller pygmy owl, or for a great horned owl, a larger predator.


The nuthatches responded to the pygmy owl alarm in greater
numbers, flew closer to the speaker, and appeared to be more
agitated by flicking their wings than when they heard the great
horned owl call.


"It turns out these animals are pretty smart," said Templeton,
himself a pretty smart postgraduate student at the University of
Washington in Seattle.


"Knowing what kinds of predators are around could be a matter of
life or death for them, so it pays for them to listen to the
alarm calls of other species. That one animal has cracked the
code and extracted the information from another species is pretty
amazing."


The study appears in the journal of the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

