

China dominated the preliminary diving rounds Monday, signalling
their intentions in the quest for a clean sweep of all the world
championship medals.


Their efforts put a first gold within grasp with the finals of
the men's 3m synchronised springboard and women's 10m
synchronised platform later Monday.


China is aiming to better the disappointing five titles won at
the last championships in Montreal two years ago, and even match
the clean-sweep of all 10 gold at the Asian Games in December.


Qin Kai and Wang Feng headed qualifying in the men's event,
amassing 453.96 points to lead Germany, Russia and the United
States into the decider. Host nation Australia also scrapped
through, as did Malaysia and Cuba.


In the women's platform, Tong Jia and Ruolin Chen led the pack,
edging Australia with 329.94 points to Melissa Wu and Briony
Cole's 326.22.


Qin said their performance so far had been just okay, suggesting
better was to come.


"This is the first time for me to dive in this World Swimming
Championship and I'm satisfied with the result," he said. "It's
okay for me as I performed to my standard."


Chen spun the same line, saying she had only performed "okay".


"It's okay. I was a bit nervous during the competition. But I'm
satisfied with this result. This is something to work on to make
changes to become much better," she said.


"A medal is our goal, we will work hard to achieve it."


Chen added that the only pressure was from other divers in China,
who all wanted to be on the team.


"There were so many elite divers in China with excellent results
in the past. We do feel pressure but it doesn't affect me. I will
try my best on every dive."


Russia, meanwhile, dominated the solo technical synchronised swim
preliminaries with another gold on the cards in the final later
Monday. Russia won the first synchronised gold of the
championships on Sunday.


Natalia Ischenko performed a precise and fluid routine, with
perfect control of her body position in the knight and combined
spins to finish with a score 98.666.


Spain's Gemma Mengual Civil entered the water with her usual
intense expression and presentation skills, showcasing tremendous
flexibility to build a score of 97.833. Saho Harada's qualified
third.


The women's water polo qualifiers got underway with Greece
proving why they are the Athens Olympic silver medallists with an
11-5 thrashing of Kazakhstan. Spain proved too good for China,
winning 15-7. Brazil beat Puerto Rico 13-2.

