

Ireland off-spinner Kyle McCallan admits he'll have to ask his
school headmistress to get more time off if his team extend their
magical World Cup odyssey.


Like most of his teammates, McCallan is a part-timer player who
holds down a full-time job - in his case as a PE teacher in
Belfast.


With Ireland heading unexpectedly into the second round Super
Eights, which last from March 27 to April 21, after their shock
three-wicket win over Pakistan, McCallan will need special
permission to remain in the Caribbean.


"Personally I'm due to go back on April 1 and will have to ring
the headmistress and ask her to give me another few weeks off,"
McCallan said.


"But it's great prestige for the school where I work and for the
rest of the employers. It's a massive thing for Irish cricket so
let's take it further."


McCallan, who is Trent Johnston's vice-captain, believes Ireland
can continue to cause shockwaves on their World Cup debut with
host nation West Indies next in their sights in their final Group
D match at Sabina Park here on Friday.


"We're not satisfied with what we've done so far, we're looking
to take more scalps now," 31-year-old McCallan told the BBC.


"I'll be honest and say we did think we could do this. Coach
Adrian Birrell has instilled a sense of belief that we're capable
of creating an upset."


The win was also the perfect reply to the critics who say that
non-Test playing nations, such as Ireland, have no place at the
World Cup which has already seen three of the heaviest defeats in
tournament history occur here.


Ireland now have three points in their group after tying their
opener with Zimbabwe.


"People are entitled to their opinion but we believe we're good
enough to be here and it's imperative to our cricket to have
something to aspire to," added McCallan.


"It would be a sorry day when cricket was restricted to nine or
10 teams and hopefully we've done our bit to push the associate
cause.


"I know there have been some big defeats (Ireland lost four
matches at the World Cricket League in Kenya in the run-up to the
World Cup) but against Pakistan, one of the big Test teams, we've
proved we're capable of beating anybody."

