

Rafael Nadal overpowered Novak Djokovic 6-2, 7-5 to win the ATP
Pacific Life Open for his first title since capturing the French
Open last June.


The second seeded Spaniard did it without dropping a set in the
5.3 million dollar hardcourt tournament which featured the best
players in the world, including world number one Roger Federer,
who was knocked out in the second round.


"This is one of the best wins for me," the 20-year-old Nadal
said. "It is a strange feeling to come here and win without
losing a set. I won against a great player."


The world's second ranked player came out with more spark on
Sunday, winning nine consecutive points to open the match. He
also won 16 of the first 18 points as Djokovic didn't post his
first point until the third game.


In the first set, Djokovic won only three points off the left-
handed Spaniard's serve.


Nadal broke Djokovic twice in the first set and once more in the
second to wrap up the win in one hour, 33 minutes.


He clinched it on the third match point when Djokovic's backhand
sailed long. Nadal, who collected 500,000 dollars in prize money,
fell onto his back and raised his arms in victory in front of the
crowd of 12,000 at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden.


The Spaniard was presented with the Indian Wells championship
trophy by German legend Boris Becker.


This was Nadal's first final since last year's Wimbledon and he
reached it in stunning fashion by crushing third seeded American
Andy Roddick in Saturday's semi-finals.


The win capped an impressive week for the 20-year-old and ended a
nine month title drought -- the longest since going 24
tournaments after turning pro before winning his first crown.


The 19-year-old Djokovic never recovered from his poor start but
he earned 250,000 dollars for making it to the final.


Djokovic seemed more excited about meeting Becker during the
presentation ceremonies.


"It is a big honour to receive a trophy from a legend," Djokovic
said. "When my mother was giving me the milk I was watching Boris
win Wimbledon."


In their only previous meeting at the French Open, Nadal led 6-4,
6-4 when the Serb quit with a back injury.


Nadal is the first Spaniard to win this event since Alex Corretja
in 2000.

