

A verdict is due Wednesday on Algeria's biggest ever financial
scandal after a 10-week trial revealing a system riddled with
corruption and incompetence at the highest levels.


Four years after the Khalifa Bank scandal broke, when hundreds of
millions of dollars were found to be missing, precipitating the
collapse of the business empire of the same name, 104 people
including the former governor of Algeria's central bank stand
accused.


The main defendants face jail terms of up to 20 years.


In the trial which began on January 8, 10 defendants are being
tried in absentia including the main one, Rafik Khalifa, who as
the flamboyant head of the Khalifa empire was once the golden boy
of the Algerian financial scene but is now in exile in London.


Rafik Khalifa, the 40-year-old son of a former minister in the
government of Algeria's first post-independence president Ahmed
Ben Bella, assembled a business empire employing more than 20,000
over a breakneck five-year period up to 2003.


Khalifa Bank, Algeria's first privately owned bank, was the hub
of this empire with some 7,000 employees. The group also
comprised an airline, Khalifa Airways, and even a television
station in former colonial ruler France.


The charismatic mother-of-five judge in the marathon trial,
Fatiha Ibrahimi, has seen serving and former government
ministers, the heads of public companies and the secretary
general of the main trade union appear in the witness box in the
court room in Blida south of Algiers.


According to prosecution lawyer Khaled Berguel, Rafik Khalifa
would never have been able to build up his rotten fiefdom
"without the collusion of the authorities, who turned a blind eye
to its dealings".


"The laxity of the Bank of Algeria was at the origin of the
Khalifa Bank catastrophe," Berguel said, and there was also
collusion beyond that in the central bank "that allowed Rafik
Khalifa to act in complete security."


Most of the defendants have defended themselves saying that they
were only following orders issued by Rafik Khalifa, portraying
the playboy tycoon as an autocratic boss with little patience for
subordinates questioning directives.


"It was his bank and I had to carry out his orders," Youcef Akli,
a top director of the bank, told the court when asked to explain
erratic movements of money.

