

The United States held Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe
"personally responsible" Sunday for cracking down on dissidents.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack issued a statement
after Zimbabwe's security forces on Sunday stopped an opposition
activist from leaving the country at Harare airport and
reportedly beat him.


"The United States condemns the government of Zimbabwe's
continued attacks on the political opposition, including
additional arrests, beatings and refusal to allow travel for
necessary medical treatment," McCormack said.


"We hold president Mugabe personally responsible for these
actions, and call on him to allow all Zimbabweans the right to
live without fear and to fully participate in the political
process," he said in a statement.


"President Mugabe clearly fears a free and open political debate
in his country and is therefore willing to use violence to
suppress all those who oppose him," he said.


"Ultimately, he will be held accountable by the people of
Zimbabwe and by the world."


In the latest move against the opposition, security forces
stopped Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC), from leaving the country at Harare
airport and beat him up so badly he needed surgery, his
colleagues reported.


It was the fourth time a member of the opposition was prevented
from traveling abroad over the weekend in an ongoing crackdown on
dissent.


On March 11, Zimbabwe police broke up an opposition rally,
arresting dozens of politicians and severely beating several,
including MDC chief Morgan Tsvangirai.


One MDC activist, Gift Tandare, died in the crackdown.


McCormack urged Harare against blocking a procession planned
Monday for Tandare.


"The government must refrain from attacks against the
opposition's procession planned for March 19 in memory of Mr.
Gift Tandare, the Movement for Democratic Change activist shot
dead by police on March 11," he said.


Mugabe, 83 and in power since 1980, has brushed aside the
international condemnation first sparked by images of a badly
beaten Tsvangirai, saying Western governments could "go hang" and
accusing the opposition of waging a violent campaign against him.

