

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer, who died here on Sunday, told
AFP late Saturday that he felt devastated by his team's stunning
World Cup exit at the hands of Ireland.


"I am deeply hurt and cannot tell you how it is going to affect
me," Woolmer told AFP, saying he would answer more questions on
email later in the week.


The shock three-wicket defeat at Sabina Park condemned Pakistan,
the 1992 world champions, to an early exit from the 2007
competition.


On Sunday, the 58-year-old was found unconscious on the floor of
his hotel room here and taken to Kingston University hospital
where he was later pronounced dead.


"I am shocked and badly hurt. We have lost a good coach and a
good person," Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq told AFP.


Despite criticism of his team's form, the likeable Woolmer took
flak in his stride.


"I know my responsibility and I am doing my job and they (the
critics) are doing theirs. I want to see Pakistan on the top of
the cricket world and for that I am doing my level best," said
Woolmer before the World Cup.


"I will not leave Pakistan cricket in the lurch."


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference at the Sabina Park ground.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Woolmer described the Ireland defeat as the worst of his 20-year
coaching career during which he led Warwickshire in England and
the South African national team at the 1996 and 1999 World Cups.


"I think it is important that I remember, however, that this is a
game, and in a game, things like this happen," he said.


P.J. Mir, Pakistan's media manager, told tv channel ARYONE from
the West Indies: "Bob Woolmer has passed away. I am speaking from
the hospital and all the team management is also at the hospital.


"Doctors have pronounced Bob Woolmer dead. It is very shocking
news to all of the team and the team mamangement.


"Bob's family and wife were informed by the management about his
condition when he was brought to hospital."


Andrew Walpole, spokesman for the England team at the World Cup,
said: "Our thoughts are with Bob's family. This has come as a
huge shock to all of the England team.


"He was a figure who commanded great respect within world cricket
and he will be sorely missed."

