

France may have retained the Six Nations title but it could have
been so different if Ireland had played up to the final whistle.


The old adage 'It's not over till the Fat Lady Sings' could not
have been more appropriate for the Irish as they saw their hopes
of a second Grand Slam - the last one was back in 1948 - dashed
when French winger Vincent Clerc scored a decisive try in the
last minute of their match.


And regardless of the fact that the French generally regard the
Irish as their friends - principally because they have a shared
historical dislike of England - the World Cup hosts snatched the
title from Ireland's grasp in injury time of the final match
against Scotland.


Ironically the decision over the try - scored by the gloriously
named Elvis Vermeulen - came down to an Irishman, Simon McDowell,
the television referee.


"He showed admirable professionalism," opined one French
official, not that Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan would have
agreed.


O'Sullivan, though, was probably keener on what Italy captain
Marco Bortolami had to say about his side.


"I think Ireland are the best team in the tournament," said
Bortolami, who led an inspired Italy side that won an
unprecedented two matches in the tournament, including their
first ever away victory against wooden spoonists Scotland.


"They may have lost to France, but they have played the best
rugby."


The Fat Lady may have sung the wrong notes for the Irish but the
statistics too speak volumes for Ireland being the best side in
the championship - best defence, most number of tries scored and
least tries conceded.


Regarding the greater scheme of things and the World Cup, the
Irish and the French will face off again in their eponymous
'Group of Death' as Argentina are also in it.


However, France's seemingly evergreen skipper Raphael Ibanez
believes that taking the title will have a galvanising effect on
the team, who have twice been to the final but failed both times
in 1987 against New Zealand and 1999 - with Ibanez as captain -
against Australia.


"The French mentally have had our ups and downs and it is
important to come back," said Ibanez.


"I am not sure how much this means regarding the World Cup but it
will certainly build up our confidence."


For world champions England and their new coach Brian Ashton
thoughts of successfully defending their title must have been
high after they stunned the French 26-18 at Twickenham in the
penultimate round of matches.


Ashton had said England would only make it out of the second tier
of world rugby if they backed that performance up against Wales,
but they didn't, losing 27-18, and he has been left a little
perplexed by the whole series of matches.


"It's been an interesting Six Nations," said the former Ireland
and Bath coach.


It certainly was, as Wales's victory over England a week on from
France's defeat at Twickenham proved.


"I feel this team's got great potential," said Wales coach Gareth
Jenkins, before adding a note of caution.


"We should enjoy this moment but must be realistic. We can look
forward to (touring) Australia in May and it's nice to have a win
for that next phase."


What the Six Nations did demonstrate was that every team in it
has its weaknesses and is vulnerable.


Realistically, the best the northern hemisphere can offer for the
World Cup are the French and the Irish, but neither has been
altogether convincing.


All of which means, overwhelming favourites the All Blacks, led
by coach Graham Henry, can sit back with a contented smile.

