

Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer died in hospital here on Sunday after
being found unconscious in his World Cup hotel room, plunging the
tournament into mourning for the ex-England Test player.


Woolmer, a former South Africa coach, was 58 years old and his
death came just a day after Pakistan, the 1992 world champions,
were dumped out of the World Cup by Ireland's part-timers.


P.J. Mir, Pakistan team media manager, told reporters at the
Kingston University Hospital, where Woolmer died: "The whole
Pakistan team is shocked and saddened that Bob Woolmer has passed
away.


"The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) extends its deepest sympathy to
his family. The chairman of the PCB has been informed and he has
been in touch with Bob's wife Jill to offer all the support she
needs.


"In accordance with Jamaican law, an autopsy will take place to
determine the cause of death."


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference at the Sabina Park ground where Pakistan had
been humbled by three wickets by Ireland.


Ironically, he talked of the stresses of the coaching job.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Late Saturday, he had told AFP of his devastation at the defeat
which caused shockwaves throughout the game.


"I am deeply hurt and cannot tell you how it is going to affect
me," Woolmer told AFP, saying he would answer more questions on
email later in the week.


Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq told AFP: "I am shocked and badly
hurt. We have lost a good coach and a good person."


There had been huge pressure on Woolmer going into the
tournament.


His team forfeited a Test match against England in August 2006 in
a row over ball-tampering before two of his best fast bowlers
Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif were caught up in a doping
scandal.


Woolmer, who took charge of the Pakistan team in 2004, was seen
late on Saturday night, but officials raised the alarm after not
seeing him early on Sunday.


When they went to his hotel room, they saw he was unconscious.


In his playing career, Woolmer appeared for Kent in the English
county championship and played 19 Tests for England.


He has also coached the South African national team.


Fate brought him to Pakistan in 2004 as coach, regarded the
country's hottest post which had seen five changes since 1999
until his arrival.


He forged a strong relationship with captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and
saw to it that the skilful cricketers always remained strong in
basics.


Born in the Indian city of Kanpur in 1948, Woolmer missed the
inaugural World Cup in 1975 due to injury.


His playing career ended prematurely as he first joined Kerry
Packer World Series Cricket and then went on rebel tours to South
Africa in 1980s.


He steadily developed into a renowned coach, and was credited
with pioneering the use of computers in cricket.


Goolam Raja, the South African team manager at the World Cup,
said people in the game had the utmost respect for Woolmer.


"I was very close to him, and I had the greatest respect for him
as a man and a coach," said Raja.


"I had the highest regard for him and he made a huge difference
to South African cricket. Our thoughts and prayers are with his
family."


Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar said he was "in shock."


"It is a huge tragedy. We are not ready to believe this has
happened," Shoaib said.


"I am completely shattered."


Akthar was pulled out of the tournament hours before Pakistan's
departure for the Caribbean on fitness grounds.


He had recently patched up relations with Woolmer after an
"altercation" during Pakistan's tour of South Africa, which the
paceman said was due to the coach believing he had feigned an
injury.


"He was a very dear man, he was a great leader and it's an
unbelievable tragedy," he said.


Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf and prime minister Shaukat
Aziz both sent messages of condolence to Woolmer's family.


"President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz have
expressed heartfelt condolences over the tragic death of Pakistan
Cricket Team Coach Bob Woolmer on Sunday," a statement said.


"In their separate messages, they said that Bob Woolmer had
promoted the cause and game of cricket in Pakistan with
dedication and single mindedness," it added.


"In their messages to his family they said Bob Woolmer's services
to the game will be long remembered by cricket fans."


Pakistan face Zimbabwe on Wednesday in their final World Cup
group match.


"The Pakistan team will continue its participation in the
tournament. We are due to play Zimbabwe and we will play that
match," Mir told AFP.

