

The Supreme Court examines Monday a case raising questions over
free speech rights in US high schools as it hears arguments over
a student's unfurling of a quirky banner proclaiming "Bong Hits 4
Jesus."


Joseph Frederick drew the ire of his school principal in Juneau,
Alaska, on January 24, 2002, when the then 18-year-old student
unveiled the huge banner in front of television cameras as the
Olympic flame passed in front of a crowd.


Principal Deborah Morse, whose school had authorized the students
to leave class for the event, was not amused by Frederick's
linkage between Jesus and a bong, a pipe used to smoke marijuana.


Morse crossed the street, destroyed the banner and suspended
Frederick from school for 10 days.


Frederick, now 23, said he had conducted "a free speech
experiment."


The banner is "absurdly funny. It doesn't make any sense at all,"
he said in a telephone news conference from China where he
studies and teaches.


On Monday, his experiment goes before the US Supreme Court, which
will hear debate over a student's right to free speech versus the
school's power to impose order.


The case has drawn heavy hitters, including the powerful American
Civil Liberties Union, which backed Frederick from the beginning.


Morse is represented by Kenneth Starr, the former special
prosecutor who led the investigation of Bill Clinton and his
relationship with a White House intern, which almost cost the
then US president his job.


The US government will also side with the school.


Frederick took his case to federal court, arguing that his free
speech right, protected under the First Amendment, had been
violated and demanding damages from Morse.


He lost the first round when a trial judge ruled for Morse,
saying she did not violate the student's rights, and even if she
had, cannot be held personally responsible for her decisions as
an educator.


That judgment was overturned on appeal, based on a 1969 Supreme
Court decision in favor of students who wore black armbands
protesting the Vietnam war, an act the court said did not
interfere with the school's mission.


Morse appealed to the Supreme Court, and Starr will argue for her
that school officials need to be able to impose discipline, which
has the approval of the National School Board Association.


The US government lawyer, Solicitor General Paul Clement, will
argue that the banner's reference to a bong amounts to urging
drug use, and high schools must be able to quash that sort of
talk.


Surprisingly, religious group have taken Frederick's side,
putting President George W. Bush's support base at odds with the
administration.


The American Center for Law and Justice, which specializes in
constitutional law and is dedicated to defending freedom of
religion and speech, submitted a friend-of-the-court brief in
favor of the student.


If schools could have banned advocacy of illegal acts during the
1960s Civil Rights movement, "students who urged their black
friends not to move to the back of the bus" could have been
kicked out of school, the brief said.


"In the abortion context, there would be no First Amendment
protection for pro- life students who urged their classmates or
others to 'sit in' at abortion facilities," the brief said.


Students plan to demonstrate Monday outside the Supreme Court in
Washington.


"What the banner said was 'look here, I have the right to free
speech and I'm asserting it,'" Frederick said.


"I wasn't trying to say anything about religion, I wasn't trying
to say anything about drugs," he said. "The phrase was not
important."


It is to some: T-shirts with the slogan "Bong Hits 4 Jesus" are
selling like hot cakes on the Internet.

