

Werder Bremen coach Thomas Schaaf was a relieved man after his
title-chasing side's 2-0 win over Mainz 05 on Sunday kept the
pressure on Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04.


Goals by midfielders Jurica Vranjes and Diego helped second-
placed Bremen peg the leaders back to a three-point advantage as
Schalke had briefly opened a six- point lead after Saturday's win
over third-placed Stuttgart.


Centre half Vranjes gave Bremen the lead on the hour mark when he
took a slick pass on the edge of the area and smashed his shot
past Mainz's diving goalkeeper Dimo Wache.


And Bremen made sure of the points in injury time when Brazilian
Diego broke clear of the defence after a quick counter-attack and
chipped into an empty net as Mainz's defence was exposed for
chasing an equalising goal.


"This was a key win for us," said Bremen coach Schaaf.


"If we had lost, Schalke would have enjoyed a big lead and it was
important that we didn't let them get away.


"We had plenty of chances, the goals didn't come in the first-
half, but our patience paid off and the victory keeps us in
touch."


In the day's other game, bottom-side Borussia Moenchengladbach
travelled to Bayer Leverkusen's BayArena and looked to have
picked up a valuable point until dealt a cruel blow in injury
time.


With the match cruising towards a 0-0 draw, Bayer's Ukrainian
striker Andrey Voronin saw his powerful shot deflected off a
defender and past 'Gladback's keeper Kasey Keller to seal the 1-0
win which lifts his side to fifth.


"We wanted the fifth place in the league and only a victory would
have given us that, so we are delighted the hard work paid off,"
said Leverkusen striker Stefan Kiessling.


On Saturday, Schalke bagged their first win in five games with a
1-0 victory at home to Stuttgart after Mladen Krstajic stabbed
the ball home from a goal-mouth scramble to give his side a
valuable victory.


And relegation-threatened Eintracht Frankfurt did themselves a
huge favour by scrambling a 1-0 win at home to Bayern Munich,
which dented the Bavarians' title aspirations and leaves them
nine points behind Schalke.


Having gone into the match with his side in the relegation zone,
Frankfurt's midfielder Christoph Preuss bagged a spectacular
78th-minute goal with a bicycle kick which lifted them four
places to 12th in the table.


And in his first game in charge, new Borussia Dortmund coach
Thomas Doll saw his side pick up a valuable point in their 0-0
draw with fifth-placed Nuremburg, but they still fell two places
to fifteenth, one above the drop zone.


Hanover drew 0-0 with Hamburg, while VfL Wolfsburg enjoyed a 3-1
win over second-from-bottom Bochum after taking a 2-0 half-time
lead at home.


Bochum got themselves back in the match thanks to their Greek
striker Theofanis Gekas, who gave his side a 66th minute life-
line to become the league's joint top-scorer, alongside injured
Stuttgart striker Mario Gomez, with 13 goals.


But Brazilian midifielder Marcelo Marcelinho made the win safe
with a goal in the 83rd minute as Bochum slipped into the bottom
three.


On Friday, newly-promoted Energie Cottbus enjoyed a 1-0 win at
Hertha Berlin thanks to a goal by their Romanian striker Sergiu
Radu just after the half-time break.

