

Dirk Nowitzki scored 28 points and pulled down 12 rebounds to
give the Dallas Mavericks a 92-88 victory over Detroit in a
Sunday showdown of National Basketball Association giants.


The Mavericks improved to a league-best 54-11 by taking the
opener of their six- game road trip while the Pistons, who lead
the Eastern Conference, fell to 42-23 by losing what could be a
preview of June's NBA Finals.


"We know they're a great team and they are a top team in the East
and in the NBA, so we came out here and played our game and
matched their intensity level, which is why we got out of here
with a win," Maverick forward Josh Howard said.


German star Nowitzki is making a strong case for season Most
Valuable Player honors and showed peak form against the Pistons,
with game highs in points on 11-of-20 shooting as well as
rebounds, 10 of them off the defensive boards.


"The way Nowitzki is, it doesn't matter whether you're big or
small, he still is going to cause you problems," Pistons coach
Flip Saunders said.


Detroit won at Dallas last December but could not complete a
sweep to earn bragging rights should they meet again in June with
a title on the line.


"You may play a team like this in the finals so there are a few
things you have to find out," Saunders said.


Nowitzki hit a critical 18-foot turnaround jumper from the left
baseline with 63 seconds remaining to help seal Detroit's fate.


"We only had a couple seconds on the shot clock," Nowitzki said.
"I basically just turned around and shot. You never know in that
situation. Sometimes it goes in. Sometimes it doesn't. I was
fortunate the ball went in."


Devin Harris added 22 points for the Mavericks, who stretched
their Western Conference lead over Phoenix to 4 1/2 games. Both
have already clinched playoff berths.


Flip Murray led Detroit with 18 points while Antonio McDyess came
off the bench to add 17 for the Pistons, whose lead over
Cleveland was trimmed to 1 1/2 games in the fight for a home-
field edge in the Eastern Conference finals.


The Pistons were without All-Star point guard Chauncey Billups,
who suffered a groin injury in Friday's victory at Phoenix.


"Obviously, it helped us that Chauncey was out," Nowitzki said.
"He's probably their MVP, one of the greatest clutch shooters in
this league, so that helped that he was out."


The Pistons had won 17 of their prior 21 while the Mavericks have
now won 19 of their last 21, although the sting of a double-
overtime loss to Phoenix last week helped motivate the Mavericks
past Detroit.


"We had a tough loss against Phoenix. That was a huge game,"
Nowitzki said.  "We felt we had it wrapped (up), we were up seven
(points) with a minute to go and we gave it away. Obviously, that
was a very disappointing big loss for us.


"We're a good enough team that we can recover from a tough loss."


Detroit guard Richard Hamilton scored 13 points on 5-of-13
shooting but went only 2-of-7 from the free throw line, the
87-percent free throw shooter missing back-to-back free throws
twice in the fourth quarter.


"When he missed two when it was a two-point game, it was like
someone let all the air out of the arena," Saunders said.

