

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Sunday it was too soon to
know whether the US troop "surge" in Iraq is making progress, as
the White House fended off heavy pressure to wind up the war four
years after it began.


Eight weeks into President George W. Bush's last-ditch plan to
deploy 21,500 more combat troops to quell rampant violence in
Baghdad and Al-Anbar province, Gates said a real estimate of
progress would take months.


"The way I would characterize it is, so far so good," Gates told
CBS television's "Face the Nation.


"It's very early" to make a more definitive assessment, he said,
noting that the US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, has
said that it will take until this summer to know if the plan is
succeeding.


Gates added that he is also generally happy with Iraqi troop
performance since the United States began deploying its
reinforcements, which, with support troops will number more than
25,000.


"I would say that the Iraqis are meeting the commitments that
they have made to us, that they have made the appointments, the
troops that they have promised are showing up," Gates said.
"We're basically buying them time."


He downplayed a Defense Department description of the Iraq
conflict as a "civil war," saying the sectarian violence really
reflects deliberate provocations by Al-Qaeda.


"The reality is that stoking sectarian violence is a very
specific strategy on the part of Al-Qaeda and the insurgents."


"You don't have thousands of Shiites and Sunnis falling in on
each other or attacking each other. You have hit squads going
around the city," he said. "So this is a purposeful strategy."


Gates was speaking ahead of the fourth anniversary of the March
20, 2003 US invasion that toppled Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein
and has left more than 3,200 US soldiers dead, including eight
more this weekend.


Tens of thousands of people demonstrated against the war in
Washington, New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles over the
weekend to mark the invasion's anniversary and demand a US troop
pullout.


Bush defended the war effort Saturday and warned that an early
withdrawal would be "disastrous."


In his weekly radio address he reiterated his determination to
veto any measure from the opposition Democrat-controlled Congress
to mandate a pullout from Iraq.


On Thursday the Senate rejected a Democratic bill to set a
timetable to remove combat troops by March 2008.


But next week the House of Representatives is expected to
consider crucial budget legislation for the war that carries a
clause requiring a US withdrawal by September 2008.


White House national security adviser Stephen Hadley said in
interviews Sunday that such a deadline would leave Iraq to Al-
Qaeda.


"Their strategy, though, is very clear. They want to get a safe
haven in Iraq from which they can then destabilize neighboring
regimes and come and plan actions against the United States," he
said.


"If the Iraqi forces cannot handle the situation, which is the
case now, we have Iraq as a safe haven for terrorists, who will
destabilize their neighbors and attack us."


"If we succeed, we've got an Iraq that is an ally in the war on
terror," he said of the US surge strategy.


"The problem is arbitrary timelines," he said. "That is mandating
failure."


Hadley spoke on CNN and ABC television.


However, congressional backers of a deadline said the troop surge
would not change what the Pentagon this week acknowledged was a
civil war in Iraq.


"This will not change the fundamental dynamics," said Democratic
Senator John Kerry.


He said the Iraqi government needs the pressure of a deadline.


"It's time for the Iraqis to assume the responsibility for Iraq,"
Kerry said on Fox News Sunday.

