

Finland looked set for a switch from a centre-left to a centre-
right government made up of Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen's
Centre Party and the opposition conservatives after Sunday's
general election.


The Centre Party has since 2003 governed in a coalition with the
Social Democrats and the tiny Swedish People's Party.


On Sunday the Centre Party remained the biggest party in the
country, with 23.1 percent of votes and 51 of 200 seats in
parliament.


The conservative National Coalition Party came in second with
22.3 percent of votes and 50 seats.


The Social Democrats were the election's big loser, unlikely to
be part of the next government after coming in third with 21.4
percent of votes and 45 seats. The Social Democrats have placed
either first or second in every election since 1962.


After the three main parties came the Left Alliance with 8.8
percent and 17 seats, the Greens with 8.5 percent and 15 seats,
the Christian Democrats with 4.9 percent and seven seats, and the
Swedish People's Party with 4.5 percent and nine seats.


In Finland there is a broad political consensus among the three
main parties, regardless of left-right bloc politics, and all
three parties have governed together at some point in recent
history.


The parties were expected to wait a few days before announcing
the next step.


Vanhanen, 51, will likely form a coalition with the
conservatives, but he could also, theoretically, continue with
the Social Democrats and smaller third party.


However, Helsinki University political scientist Tom Moring told
AFP "it would be pretty difficult to exclude the conservatives
from government."


Conservative party leader Jyrki Katainen, 35, said he expected
his party to be in the next government. "The people wanted the
conservatives to grow, that should also be reflected in the
government," he said.


Vanhanen said he expected discussions on the next government to
be "very difficult", while Social Democratic Party leader Eero
Heinaeluoma insisted that "the government issue remains open."


As custom dictates, Vanhanen is expected to tender his
government's resignation on March 28. The formation of a new
government is expected in mid-April.


The election campaign focused on Finland's welfare system, with
health care, job creation and care for the elderly in the
spotlight as Finland has one of Europe's most rapidly ageing
populations.


Voter turnout was low on Sunday, at 67.8 percent compared to 70
percent in 2003.


Vanhanen, a former journalist who was handed the reins of
government in 2003 after just 10 weeks' experience as a cabinet
minister, has grown into the role to become Finland's most
popular prime minister ever.


He is often described as lacking charisma, but he is nevertheless
widely respected for his competence and detailed knowledge of
issues. His strongest asset in the election was his glowing
socio-economic record.


Finland registered growth in 2006 of 5.5 percent; unemployment
has fallen from nine percent to about 7.5 percent in four years;
the state budget now has a surplus; and Finns' purchasing power
is one of the strongest in Europe.


Vanhanen vowed during the campaign to bring unemployment to below
six percent during the next parliamentary term and further tax
cuts for families and business, building on the 2.7 billion euros
(3.53 billion dollars) in cuts already introduced since 2003.


He also promised more spending on health and geriatric care.


According to recent Eurobarometer statistics, Finns are among the
most content people in Europe. Sixty-seven percent are
unconcerned about their future pension, in second position behind
Danes, and 88 percent say they are satisfied with their quality
of life.

