

Thousands of people on Sunday protested the disappearance of a
key witness in the trial of a former police officer accused of
torture during Argentina's military dictatorship.


Protestors rallying in Buenos Aires held signs reading "Come back
to us now," six months after Jorge Julio Lopez, a 77-year-old
bricklayer, vanished after testifying against ex-policeman Miguel
Etchecolatz.


Another demonstration took place Sunday in Lopez's hometown of La
Plata, 57 kilometers (35 miles) south of the capital.


Etchecolatz was sentenced to life in prison on September 19 after
being convicted on charges including homicide, illegal detention
and torture of political detainees during the 1976-1983
dictatorship.


Lopez, who had been detained during the dictatorship, was last
seen on September 18, after he had testified in the case. Lopez
had said in the trial that he had been tortured in three of 21
clandestine detention camps run by Etchecolatz.


His disappearance has dredged up dark memories in Argentina of
the military junta's practice of making dissidents vanish. Some
30,000 people disappeared under the dictatorship, many of them
thrown alive from helicopters into the sea.


Sunday's protests were organized by a coalition of human rights
groups and was the first event in a week-long campaign called "No
to Impunity Yesterday and Today."


The campaign culminates March 24 with a rally in the capital's
May Square to mark the 31st anniversary of the 1976 military coup
that brought to power a brutal junta that ruled until democracy
was restored in 1983.


Authorities have conducted 250 operations to find Lopez, using
dogs and helicopters in a search that spilled into neighboring
Brazil and Paraguay.


His picture was posted in metro and train stations as well as
football stadiums, while Buenos Aires province offered a
130,000-dollar reward.


The government and rights groups suspect that ex-members of the
junta's repressive machinery were behind Lopez's disappearance.


Lopez's wife, Irene, pleaded Sunday for a "humanitarian sign to
ease such pain."

