

Lawyers for a British-born militant sentenced to hang for the
murder of Daniel Pearl say they will try to use a confession by
Al-Qaeda operative Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to seek his release.


Mohammed, the Al-Qaeda number three who was arrested in Pakistan
in 2003 and transferred to US custody a week later, admitted
during a closed-door US military hearing in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
to having beheaded the journalist, according to an edited
transcript released Wednesday by the Pentagon.


Mohammed was never charged for Pearl's murder in trials here and
his name did not even appear in the case files, a senior police
officer said.


After months of investigations, police blamed the kidnapping and
subsequent beheading in the southern city of Karachi on a group
of Islamic militants headed by Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, also
known as Sheikh Omar.


Omar was arrested with three other colleagues and convicted of
Pearl's murder in June 2002 by an anti-terrorism court. Seven
other co-accused were punished in absentia and two of them were
later killed in encounters with the police.


The court documents said they masterminded Pearl's kidnapping in
an attempt to win freedom for Al-Qaeda men locked in Guantanamo
Bay.


Omar lodged his appeal at the high court of Pakistan's southern
Sindh province a month after the June 2002 verdict, but the case
has been adjourned more than 40 times.


"I am trying to get a copy of Mohammed's statement as it
vindicates" Omar, his lawyer Khwaja Sultan told AFP this week.


This statement shows the Pakistani government wanted to implicate
Omar, instead of Mohammed who was the real killer, Sultan said.


"I have got more evidence, documents from the US to prove my
client's innocence," he added.


In his confession, Mohammed said: "I decapitated with my blessed
right hand the head of the American Jew, Daniel Pearl, in the
city of Karachi, Pakistan."


"For those who would like to confirm, there are pictures of me on
the Internet holding his head," he said.


Pearl, 38, was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street
Journal when he was abducted in Karachi on January 23, 2002 while
researching a story about Islamic militants.


His kidnapping triggered a massive manhunt across Pakistan, as
his French wife Mariane, who was heavily pregnant with the
couple's first child, maintained an anxious vigil.


At the same hearing, Mohammed also claimed responsibility for 31
plots around the world, including the September 11, 2001 attacks
in the United States.


In an oral statement, Mohammed said Pearl's beheading was not an
Al-Qaeda operation.


"It's like beheading Daniel Pearl," he said. "It's not related to
Al-Qaeda. It was shared in Pakistan. Other group, Mujahedeen."


Lawyers for one of the three other Pakistanis convicted in the
kidnapping and murder of Pearl said Mohammed should be brought to
Pakistan and tried here for the murder.


"I can't say about the validity of the statement but it would be
raised before the appeal," lawyer Malik Naveed said.


Mohammed has been kept in controversial circumstances, most of
the time in complete secrecy, since his capture in Pakistan. He
has no access to a lawyer and allegations have been made that he
was tortured while in US custody.


The hearing of Omar's appeal was again adjourned last week until
further orders due to the countrywide protests by lawyers against
the sacking of Pakistan's top judge by the government.

