

The diplomatic ambitions of the last remaining Communist
superpower seem a long way removed from the Caribbean island of
St Lucia, a popular tourist destination with citizens of that
most capitalist of nations, the United States of America.


And yet thanks to cricket, that most English of sports, a link
has been formed between several islands staging World Cup matches
and the People's Republic of China.


In a bid to isolate long-term rival Taiwan, which has itself
invested heavily in the region, employees from state-owned
Chinese companies have been helping to build World Cup venues.


The Caribbean has become an important region for China because it
contains four of the 24 states that still recognise Taiwan.


Back in 1949 Taiwan split from China when communists led by Mao
Zedong took control of the mainland.


In 1971 Communist China replaced Taiwan as a permanent member of
the United Nations Security Council and eight years later the
United States recognised China. Antigua and Barbuda was the first
Caribbean country to recognize China in 1983.


St Lucia, which is hosting the first round Group C phase which
features Test cricket nations England and New Zealand as well as
Canada and Kenya, before staging a World Cup semi-final has found
itself courted by both China and Taiwan as they engage in a high-
stakes game of dollar diplomacy.


In St Lucia the situation has been complicated by a change of
government which saw the United Workers Party (UWP) returned to
power after an election in December last year.


The UWP has ties with Taiwan stretching back to its last spell in
power a decade ago since when China has spent millions in St
Lucia.


Now the Eastern Caribbean island's former Attorney-General,
Victor Phillip La Corbiniere, who served as a senator under the
St Lucia Labour Party and who is a possible contender for the
leadership of his party when a convention is held later this
year, said the new administration had to clarify its position.


"It is clear the government is playing for time," he told the
Voice, a St Lucian national newspaper.


He was admamant that re-establising diplomatic ties with Taiwan
would do nothing for the island's economy.


"If you look at the geo-politics of of the world, if you
understand what's happened in today's political environment there
is absolutely nothing to be gained."


China has also financed stadia in Antigua, Grenada and Jamaica
while Taiwan, not to be left out, has backed the venues at St
Vincent and St Kitts.


The Warner Park Stadium at St Kitts, which is staging matches
involving world champions Australia as well as world number one
South Africa, was built with a 12 million dollar donation from
Taiwan.


"On behalf of the government I thank Taiwan for their support in
making this venue ready," Denzil Douglas, the prime minister of
St Kitts and Nevis, told AFP.

