

With no foreign minister and a dozen vacant ambassador posts
around the world, Romania's diplomacy has fallen victim to a
dispute between the country's president and prime minister,
analysts say.


On January 31, a Bucharest daily reported that two Romanian
workers had been detained by US forces in Iraq on suspicion of
spying.


The matter was promptly resolved and the two workers were
released, returning home as heroes. But Foreign Minister Razvan
Ungureanu was sacked after Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu said he
had failed to inform him of the incident.


Ungureanu, considered a close ally of President Traian Basescu,
had already had a disagrement with Tariceanu in June when he
criticised the prime minister's sudden decision to withdraw
Romanian troops from Iraq.


The foreign minister was reprimanded by the radical wing of
Tariceanu's National Liberal Party (PNL) following the incident.
But he ultimately fell victim to the dispute between the
president and prime minister which has escalated in recent
months.


In mid-February, Tariceanu's nomination of historian and liberal
European MP Adrian Cioroianu to succeed Ungureanu was rejected by
the president, who still refuses to accept the appointment.


"I told Mr. Tariceanu that Mr. Cioroianu's nomination was not a
good solution and I advised him to find a more experienced
diplomat," Basescu said Friday.


But the prime minister replied he had "no intention whatsoever of
making another recommendation."


"Mr. Cioroianu is a victim of the war between the two palaces,"
the presidential and the governmental ones, a Foreign Ministry
source said.


"Even if he came to be appointed minister, he would not have the
same influence any more in the eyes of his counterparts, who know
he does not have the president's support," the source told AFP.


Meanwhile, ambassadors due to take up new assignments have also
been caught up in the dispute between Basescu and Tariceanu,
leaving embassies in 18 countries, including a dozen capitals
like Washington, Paris and London, vacant -- some of them for
months.


"There is a total institutional blockage in Romania's foreign
relations," former foreign minister and current European MP
Adrian Severin said.


"When the ministry is headless and the main ambassador postings
cannot be filled, it is obvious foreign policy is blocked," he
told AFP.


"I can agree with Mr. Basescu, who believes that Mr. Cioroianu
does not have the necessary experience to guide diplomacy, but it
must be noted that the decision to name a minister does not lie
with the president but with the head of government."


While Basescu and Tariceanu seem determined to stand by their
positions, diplomatic circles are contemplating a compromise: a
"technocrat with experience as an ambassador" who is close to
neither the president nor the prime minister.


For Severin however, such an alternative would be difficult to
implement: "given the conflict at the top, a technocrat who does
not have the support of any political party will be promptly
squashed."

