

Hibernian hammered Kilmarnock 5-1 to lift the Scottish League Cup
at Hampden Stadium on Sunday - their first trophy in 16 years.


Rob Jones headed the Edinburgh side ahead in the first half
before doubles for Moroccan forward Abdessalam Benjelloun and
Steven Fletcher after the break decided the destination of the
first silverware of the Scottish season.


Gordon Greer briefly gave hope to Jim Jefferies team to make it
3-1 but in the end it was scant consolation to the Ayrshire
club's support in the near capacity 50,162 crowd.


Hibs manager John Collins was thrilled for his players and the
club's support.


He said: "It's a tremendous feeling and the boys deserved it. In
all fairness I didn't think we played that well in the first half
and were fortunate to go in to the break one goal up.


"We picked it up in the second half, got the second goal and then
the confidence grew and we started to pass it more.


"To score five goals in a cup final, well you don't get much
better than that.


"It was a great moment for me at the end to see all our fans
smiling, singing and dancing as 16 years is a long time to go
without a trophy."


Jefferies, meanwhile, thought his players were unlucky to have
lost by such a margin.


The Killie boss said: "I didn't think it was a 5-1 game. Even
when we pulled one back to make it 3-1 I thought we could get to
3-2 and they would have panicked.


"We pushed men forward but were caught out and the fifth was just
a freak goal so I thought the scoreline was a little bit harsh.


"But the lads have been fantastic. We have made the top six in
the league with three games to go before the split and made a
major cup final so I hope this result does not cloud their
achievements this season."


In near blizzard conditions at Hampden Kilmarnock had started
brighter but it was Hibs who took the lead in the 27th minute.


David Murphy's deep corner found Rob Jones at the back post and
the big central defender sent a powerful header past Killie
keeper Alan Combe into the back of the net.


Hibs increased their advantage in the 59th minute.


Left-back Steven Whittaker passed forward to Benjelloun who
carried the ball towards goal before curling a clinical left-foot
shot from 18-yards beyond Combe into the left-hand corner of the
net.


The result looked beyond doubt in the 66th minute Hibs when Scott
Brown split the Ayrshire team's defence with a perfectly weighted
pass into the path of Fletcher who did not break stride before
firing low past Combe from 16-yards into the corner of the net.


Kilmarnock, however, grabbed a glimmer of hope in the 78th
minute.


Gary Locke crossed from the left to Colin Nish who headed back
across goal for Greer to nod home from six-yards.


But in the 85th minute Hibs restored their three goal advantage.


Fletcher played the ball inside from the left to Benjelloun and
he took a touch before firing under the body of Combe.


And two minutes later the Killie goalkeeper gifted Hibs with a
fifth when he completely fluffed an attempted clearance,
succeeding only in playing the ball straight to Fletcher who
gratefully rolled the ball into the net to clinch the trophy they
had won in 1991.

