

Thousands were expected to take to the streets Sunday in New York
and major West Coast cities, demanding an end to the Iraq war, a
day after massive protests in Washington and around the United
States.


United for Peace and Justice, which describes itself as the
largest anti-war coalition in the United States, said it expected
the protesters to turn up for protests in New York to mark the
fourth anniversary of the US-led Iraq invasion.


"The national anti-war movement is planning a unified surge of
protest actions calling on Congress to end the occupation and for
the immediate withdrawal of US troops," the group said in a
statement.


Massive anti-war rallies also were organized Sunday for San
Francisco, California; Portland, Oregon; and Seattle, Washington.


Protesters were due to march past the offices of Senators Hillary
Clinton and Charles Schumer in midtown Manhattan to protest "the
human and economic costs of four years of the war in Iraq."


"We're telling our Congressional representatives that the people
want them to stand up to (President George W.) Bush," said Leslie
Kielson, a coordinator with United for Peace and Justice.


"If the president refuses to act, if he vetoes any and all
legislation that sets a deadline, then the Congress must use its
powers under the Constitution and act," he said in a statement
ahead of the New York rally.


Meanwhile, on Saturday tens of thousands of demonstrators marched
to the Pentagon's doorstep demanding "US out of Iraq Now," ahead
of the fourth anniversary of the US invasion.


Protesters from across the United States descended on the US
Defense Department offices and decry the conflict that has killed
more than 3,200 US soldiers and tens of thousands of Iraqi
civilians.


Former US attorney general Ramsey Clark called for President
George W. Bush's impeachment, while Cindy Sheehan, who lost a son
in Iraq, demanded a US withdrawal.


The rally organized by the peace group ANSWER (Act Now To Stop
War And End Racism) was met by counter-protesting Vietnam war
veterans, wearing black leather jackets.


Some war supporters confronted the peace activists, tearing up
and spitting on anti-war signs while chanting: "USA! USA!"


Washington police did not give crowd estimates, but an AFP
correspondent said tens of thousands of people could be seen at
the march.


War opponents have organized a series of protests against the
conflict that started March 20, 2003.


In Los Angeles meanwhile, several thousand demonstrators took to
the streets. Organizers of the rally in Hollywood estimated its
size at "tens of thousands," while the Los Angeles Police
Department said the figure was in the 5,000-6,000 range.


Protesters blew whistles and carried placards bearing slogans
critical of Bush, such as "Worst President Ever" and "It's time
for regime change in Washington."


A smattering of celebrities were also marching in the crowd,
organizers said, including veteran actor and peace activist
Martin Sheen and actress Maria Bello, the star of "Thank you for
Smoking" and "A History of Violence."


Ian Thompson, of ANSWER, said the protest was the biggest in Los
Angeles since 2005. "People have had enough and this is their way
of showing it," Thompson told AFP.


"This government needs to start listening to what the people
want. And most people don't want us to be fighting war in Iraq,"
Thompson added.


Alan Pugh, 27, a computer student from Ohio, said he hoped the
Washington protest would have the same impact as the mass
demonstrations denouncing the Vietnam war decades ago.


"This is the 40th anniversary of the Vietnam protest that changed
the direction and we hope we can do the same thing today," he
said.

