

Gunmen stepped up attacks in Somalia's capital on Sunday, killing
a civilian and wounding 11 others, hours after a police chief
leading a crackdown on insurgency was shot dead in the southern
port of Kismayo.


In Mogadishu, a barrage of mortar shells crashed down into a
civilian district after missing their target in the seaport,
where an African Union-chartered freighter carrying military
hardware is expected to dock.


In addition, gunmen ambushed a convoy of Ethiopian troops near
the seaport in southern Mogadishu, sparking a gun battle,
highlighting the government's inability to rein in deadly and
complex insurgency.


"A middle-aged man was killed during the cross fire near the
seaport," said Muhidin Farah, a cousin of the deceased in
Mogadishu, which has frequently been riven be clan strife since
the collapse of a central government in 1991.


Doctors and residents said at least 11 people were wounded when
most of the 13 mortars blasted a restaurant in the nearby Hamel
Jejab neighbourhood, one of the most battle-weary parts of in the
city, as well as the Ethiopian ambush.


Ethiopian troops last December launched a lightning offensive
alongside the fighters of the weak Somali government to rout an
Islamic Courts Union from the country's towns, but radical
Islamists have since fought back and an AU force of 8,000
peacekeepers has begun to deploy.


"We have so far recieved seven wounded civilians, including two
children and a woman," said Mohamed Ali, a medic in the capital's
Medina Hospital.


"Some of them are severely wounded, but we are trying to save
their lives. They are all victims of this afternoon's attacks in
southern Mogadishu," Ali added.


Resident Abdulaziz Mohamed said four other civilians were wounded
in the attacks -- two were taken to a private hospital and two
others treated in a phamarcy.


A duty police official in the seaport said: "The insurgents have
fired 13 mortar shells at the seaport, but no one was injured
inside here. Most of the shells landed outside the port
compound."


"There was a small gunfire after gunmen ambushed Ethiopian forces
near the seaport, but no one was injured," added the officer.


It was unclear if the either insurgents or Ethiopian troops
suffered an fatality in the fighting, the latest in a series of
duels that have firmly cemented Mogadishu's reputation as one of
the most dangerous cities in the world.


In port town of Kismayo, 500 kilometres (310 miles) south of
Mogadishu, regional police commander Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle
was killed overnight in his compound by one of his body guards.


A second bodyguard and two children in a neighbouring house were
injured in the incident, witnesses said. The man suspected of
shooting Abdulle has been arrested and taken into custody.


"He was shot at close range and bled too much. He was pronounced
dead on arrival in hospital," said Ahmed Abdi, a police officer.


Abdulle had gained reputation for his unrelenting crackdown on
gunmen in the port town, which was the last bastion of the
Islamists ousted from much of south and central Somalia in
January.


Analysts say that in coming weeks the government must prove it
can assure control Mogadishu security ahead of the April 16
opening of a national reconciliation conference, which insurgents
are keen on disrupting.


Attacks on civilian targets in the seaside capital have claimed
dozens of lives and forced at least 40,000 people to flee despite
a deployment of at least 4,000 government troops and assurances
of improving security.


Earlier this month, the African Union deployed 1,200 Ugandan
troops to Somalia, part of the proposed 8,000-strong force aimed
at enabling Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to take
over.


The peacekeepers, who have also attacked, are expected to help
interim President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed exert control across his
nation.


Since their arrival on March 6, Ugandan troops have been encamped
inside the Mogadishu airport awaiting military equipment before
starting patrols.


A previous US-UN peace mission in the 1990s ended disastrously
after the peacekeepers fought pitched battles with Somali
warlords, who later carved up the nation of 10 million into a
patchwork of unruly fiefdoms.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

