

Once upon a time playing in their own legendary Santiago Bernabeu
stadium was a huge advantage for Real Madrid but coach Fabio
Capello admitted here on Sunday that times have changed.


Real's stuttering form in the Spanish capital, which has seen
them win less than half their home league games this season, has
provoked continual brick-bats from their ever-critical fans.


Sections of the 75,000 capacity crowd in the Bernabeu started
jeering their own team mid-way through the first half as Real
struggled to a 2-0 win over a Gimnastic Tarragona side that was
down to 10 men after just seven minutes.


Some never stopped.


"To play in the Bernabeu is a bit of an uphill battle. We are not
playing with the same speed and calm that we do away from home,"
admitted Capello at the post-match press conference on Sunday.


"The Real Madrid fans are the Real Madrid fans. We can't change
them. That's the way it is. We love them and they love us but
this is their manner," added the Italian with barely disguised
sarcasm.


Part of the problem appears to be Capello himself.


After being hailed as the hero who would end Real's barren streak
which stretches back to 2003, the majority of Real fans would
happily see the back of him.


Real are out of both the Champions League and the Spanish Cup,
and although they are third in the Spanish first division after
Sunday's win they remain five points adrift of league leaders and
bitter rivals Barcelona.


Capello's tactics and team choices seem to have baffled not only
his own squad, as several players have publically admitted, but
Real's fans.


"After the first half I didn't believe we can still win the
league but after the second half I saw another team with another
dream. This was two different teams but we can't play for just 45
minutes," reflected Capello.


"In the second half we were playing against 10 men and after
running a lot during the first half they (Gimnastic) paid for it.


"Many times against teams with 10 men you can't play the way you
want. We were too slow and not playing well (in the first half)
but the second half was completely different. I was satisfied at
the end," added Capello.


Capello believed that the crowd's abuse helped motivate his men
after the break, although the psychology involved must have
involved more of the stick than the carrot.


"They whistled us fairly and afterwards we had many opportunities
to win by more goals."


Robinho broke the deadlock after 56 minutes but Real could only
relax in the final few minutes of the game after an unlucky own
goal by Gimnastic defender David Garcia nine minutes before the
end.

