

The bloody Greco-Persian war epic "300" plundered the North
American box-office for the second weekend running, industry
figures showed Sunday, after Tehran bashed the film for
portraying Iranian ancestors as "savages."


The film of the 480 BC Battle of Thermopylae between a massive
invading Persian force and outnumbered Greek soldiers led US and
Canada cinema sales with a take of 31.2 million dollars in its
second week, according to box office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


That brought its two-week total gross to 127.5 million dollars,
the best-selling film so far this year and a second big success
for a movie version of a graphic novel by Frank Miller, who also
authored "Sin City."


But the film drew flack earlier this week when Iran's media and
government officials blasted the film.


A cultural advisor to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad described the
film as "American psychological warfare against Iran."


"American cultural officials thought they could get mental
satisfaction by plundering Iran's historic past and insulting
this civilization," Javad Shamaghdari told semi-official Fars
news agency.


In second place at the theaters this weekend was the comedy "Wild
Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle road trip of a
handful of 40-plus suburbanites. The film brought in 18.8 million
dollars, taking its three-week total to 104.0 million.


Debuting in third place was thriller "Premonition," starring
Sandra Bullock, selling an estimated 18 million dollars in seats.


Two more new films debuted in the top five: mad ventriloquist
horror pic "Dead Silence," earning 7.8 million, and comedian
Chris Rock's "I Think I Love My Wife" (5.7 million).


Family adventure story "Bridge to Terabithia," based on the
award-winning novel by Katherine Paterson, took 5.1 million
dollars to hold sixth place in its fifth week.


Sony Pictures' "Ghost Rider," in seventh place, earned another
4.0 million to take its total five weeks since opening to 110.2
million.


Rounding out the top 12 films of the weekend: "Zodiac" (3.1
million), "Norbit" (2.7 million), "Music and Lyrics" (2.2
million), "Amazing Grace" (2.1 million) and "The Number 23" (1.8
million).


The top 12 films pulled in 102.5 million dollars for the Friday
to Sunday period, up nearly 10 million dollars from a year
earlier.

