

Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was taken to hospital and was in a
serious condition after being found unconscious in his hotel
room, an official said on Sunday.


"We have taken Bob Woolmer to the hospital and he is in the
emergency ward. We don't know anything more at the moment,"
Pakistan team media manager Pervez Mir told AFP.


"We have been told he was serious but we don't know much. It is
too early to say whether or not he suffered a heart attack."


Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup on Saturday after a
shock three- wicket defeat to Ireland.


Sky Sports reported that Woolmer was found at 1045 local time
(1545GMT) on the floor of his hotel room unconscious and with
signs of vomiting.


An ambulance took the 58-year-old to the Kingston University
Hospital.


The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) is expected to release a
statement later Sunday.


Woolmer, who took charge of the Pakistan team in 2004, was seen
late Saturday night, but officials raised the alarm after not
seeing him early Sunday.


When they went to his hotel room, they saw he was unconscious.


Pakistan team manager Talat Ali, their South African based
trainer Murray Stevenson and assistant manager Asad Mustafa went
with Woolmer to the hospital where he was given medical
attention.


"We have contacted Bob Woolmer's wife in South Africa and have
told her about the situation," added Mir


Woolmer was last seen in public when he addressed the post-match
media conference after his team's defeat to Ireland at Sabina
Park.


He indicated his side's performance ranked pretty highly as one
of the worse days of his life as a coach.


"I think the worse was at Edgbaston in 1999 (when he was South
Africa's coach in a losing semi-final to Australia), but I think
it is important that I remember however, that this is a game, and
in a game, things like this happen," he said.


"As for my future as a coach, this is what I do best, and I am
not going to, therefore, throw away coaching.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Woolmer had no excuses to make about his side's performance in
the competition.


"I think we have a good team in this World Cup, but we have not
played as well as we should have, or could have.


"Quite frankly, a lot of credit must be given to Ireland, and a
lot of credit should be given to the ICC's High Performance
Programme, and we deserve to take stick because we have not
performed.


"This is a game of cricket, and everyone should try to remember
this. We are sorry that we have performed in the way that we
have. We didn't mean to do it, but all credit to Ireland and good
luck to them."


In his playing career, Woolmer appeared for Kent in the English
county championship and played 19 Tests for England.


He has also coached the South African national team.


Pakistan face Zimbabwe on Wednesday in their final World Cup
group match.

