

The Thai baht continued its rise Monday and hit new nine-year
highs against the dollar despite speculation that new measures
could be imposed to curb the currency's gains, dealers said.


The baht was quoted in a range of 34.80-83 to the dollar in
morning trade, against Friday's close at 34.92-93.


The Thai currency broke the 35 barrier on Thursday amid
speculation that the Bank of Thailand would end all capital
controls introduced in December.


However, Thai officials, including the finance minister,
repeatedly stated last week that the government would keep the
currency controls but investors bet the opposite, pushing the
baht to new highs against the dollars.


"Exporters sold dollars on speculation that the baht would get
stronger because of expectations that the capital control rules
could be lifted at any time," said Thanyalak Surapol, head of
money and banking at Kasikorn Research Centre.


"They are worried that additional measures could be introduced to
replace the withholding rules but the baht continued to rise this
morning while other currencies didn't move significantly against
the greenback," she added.


Thanyalak said Kasikorn Research expected the baht to rise past
34.70 this week, due to negative sentiment on the dollar and the
US economy.


The central bank in December introduced stringent currency rules
aimed at halting gains in the Thai baht, which has risen nearly
12 percent over the past year.


The rules required 30 percent of all incoming investment to be
held by financial institutions for up to one year, sparking a
massive stock market sell-off in December with losses of a
staggering 23 billion dollars.


Central bank governor Tarisa Watanagase and Thailand's new
Finance Minister Chalongphob Sussangkarn have repeatedly said the
government would keep the currency measures to rein in the rising
Thai baht.


Investors initially cheered Chalongphob's appointment as finance
minister since the former World Bank economist had previously
come out against the capital controls.


But the new minister disappointed investors by saying Thailand
still needed the measures to control the volatile currency.

