

The United States said Monday it had struck a deal with North
Korea on a long- running financial sanctions dispute, clearing
the way for progress in talks on ending Pyongyang's nuclear
weapons programme.


All of the roughly 25 million dollars in North Korean funds
frozen in a Macau- based bank since 2005 due to accusations of
money laundering and counterfeiting will be released, chief US
nuclear envoy Christopher Hill said.


"We feel this is the basis of a solution. We feel this matter has
been resolved and now we can move on to the next problems, of
which there are many," Hill told reporters after the US Treasury
Department announced the deal.


The announcement came shortly before the start of a fresh round
of six-party negotiations in Beijing aimed at ending North
Korea's nuclear drive, involving the two Koreas, China, the
United States, Japan and Russia.


Pyongyang had insisted that it would not agree to implement an
accord reached in the multinational forum on February 13 until
the dispute over the financial sanctions was resolved.


Under last month's deal, North Korea -- which conducted its first
atomic test in October last year -- would get badly needed energy
aid and diplomatic concessions in return for shutting down its
nuclear programmes.


North Korea was given 60 days from the signing of the agreement
to close its main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors back into
the country to supervise proceedings.


In return, North Korea would initially receive 50,000 tonnes of
heavy fuel for energy.


The impoverished state would eventually receive one million
tonnes of heavy fuel or equivalent energy aid if it permanently
closed its nuclear facilities and completely disbanded its atomic
weapons programme.


Hill said now that the sanctions hurdle had been cleared, he
expected the initial provisions of the February 13 accord to be
implemented on schedule.


"We look forward to that process continuing in the next 30 days
so that we will have the shutdown of the Yongbyon facility and
the sealing of it and the monitoring of it by IAEA personnel," he
said.


"We will also look forward to making sure the first shipment of
fuel oil, which is called for in the February agreement, reaches
the DPRK within the 60-day timeframe."


South Korea has already said it will provide the initial batch of
50,000 tonnes of fuel oil.


Chief South Korean envoy Chun Yung-Woo characterised the
sanctions deal between the United States and North Korea as a
"fortunate thing" that signalled more disarmament progress.


"Since the issue has been resolved, there will be no big
obstacles to implementation during the initial 60-day stage for
disabling North Korea's nuclear facilities," Chun told reporters.


Deputy assistant US Treasury secretary Daniel Glaser, who had
overseen talks on the sanctions issue, earlier told reporters
that the 25 million dollars would not go back into the pockets of
the North Korean elite.


"North Korea has pledged... that these funds will be used solely
for the betterment of the North Korean people, including for
humanitarian and educational purposes," Glaser said.


Glaser denied that the decision to allow the money to go back to
North Korea meant that the United States had sent a wrong message
to other nations involved in illegal financial activities.


"I think the message this sends... is that we will not tolerate
illicit conduct by financial institutions in the international
financial system," he said.


Hill also said Washington's position on the sanctions issue
remained strong.


"What this means is that the North Koreans understood our
concerns (and were) prepared to cooperate with us to make sure
the money is used appropriately," he said.


Hill said the latest round of six-party talks were expected to
last two days.

