

The long wait is over for Rafael Nadal.


The swashbuckling left-handed Spaniard needed one hour and 33
minutes to dismantle Novak Djokovic of Serbia 6-2, 7-5 in the
final of the ATP Pacific Life Open here Sunday.


Nadal hadn't had much to cheer about lately, failing to win a
title in the dozen tournaments since defending his Roland Garros
crown in June.


The world's second-ranked player put the sceptics at ease on
Sunday by capturing his first tournament of 2007 after winning
five events last year.


"When you are not winning you are thinking, 'I need to win one
title,'" Nadal said. "It wasn't a disaster these eight (actually
nine) months.


"But after I played the US Open quarter-finals I was always in
the quarter- finals and semi-finals.


"I wasn't winning, that's true. But I always in the quarter-
finals and semi- finals. I was always there.


"Sometimes you are a little bit luckier or you have a little more
confidence."


Nadal got a break in Indian Wells with the early knockout of top
seed and three- time defending champion Roger Federer, the Swiss
world number one.


Seizing the moment, Nadal did not drop a set in the tournament.
He won all his service games in the final against Djokovic.


Nadal put on an impressive display of running and shotmaking by
winning the first set against Djokovic in a blazing 29 minutes.


"I arrived here for this tournament with good confidence because
I was playing very good tennis in Dubai," said Nadal. "When I
started this tournament I kept telling myself I was feeling great
and am in one of my best moments."


Nadal said as his game evolves and his strength improves with age
he would continue to work on the finer points of his game.


"I am 20 years old. I need to improve on a lot of things," he
said.


"I need to play more aggressively with my forehand, serve a
little better, go to the volley sometimes, improve a little bit
of a slice and improve my backhand."


He's looking forward to the Miami tournament next week and then
most likely Davis Cup play later this year. Spain will face the
United States in a quarter- final.


"Right now my focus is on Miami," Nadal said. "I don't know
nothing of the Davis Cup. I don't know if I am on the team."

