

The United States on Sunday said it will deal with the new
Palestinian government only if it agrees to forgo violence and
fully recognize Israel.


US national security adviser Stephen Hadley laid down that hard
line in remarks on US television, after Palestinian Prime
Minister Ismail Haniya, in a speech to parliament, insisted on
his new government's right to all forms of resistance, rejecting
a key international condition for acceptance.


"This government needs to renounce terror and violence," Hadley
told CNN.


"It needs to acknowledge the right of Israel to exist," he said,
adding that those conditions so far have not been met.


Meanwhile, a US embassy spokeswoman in Israel said the United
States is ready to work with members of the new Palestinian
government who are not from Hamas, which Washington considers a
terrorist outfit.


"Individuals who are not members of foreign terrorist
organizations but who do hold office in the unity government, we
do not rule out contact with those individuals," the spokeswoman
said.


Israel has called on the international community to uphold a
boycott of the entire government until it explicitly agrees to
international demands, including recognition of the Jewish state
and renunciation of violence.


Officials in Washington said however they will maintain ties with
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, of the Fatah faction, despite
his decision to share power with Hamas, a group responsible for
scores of suicide bombings.


"Abbas is not part of the government. He is the president of the
Palestinian Authority," Hadley told CNN.


Hadley said Haniya's remarks flouted the principles espoused by
the Quartet guiding Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts -- the
United States, European Union, United Nations and Russia -- and
called on the new government to commence "cracking down on
violence, and stopping rocket attacks on Israel."


"If they take those kinds of actions, it will show that they're
moving toward the Quartet principles," Hadley said.


"We will not deal with this government until it accepts those
principles," he said. "We'll be watching obviously for the words
and deeds of this government."


The new Palestinian government will be a target of talks held by
US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on a swing through the
region in the coming week.


Rice is due to meet in Ramallah on March 24 with Abbas, who is
seen as a moderate with broad-based support in the West. She will
meet him again two days later in Amman, sources in Abbas's office
said Sunday.


Rice is also to head to Egypt on March 24 to meet with
representatives of the so-called Arab Quartet diplomatic group --
Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates --
Egypt's Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said Saturday, instead
of March 25 as he previously said.


She is also slated to meet Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has complained that the new
government's program falls short of previous Western demands for
a commitment to non-violence and recognition of the Jewish
state's right to exist and urged an international boycott.


The new Palestinian cabinet -- uniting long-time rivals Fatah and
Hamas -- met for the first time Sunday in Gaza City and by video
link in Ramallah, a day after Haniya presented his government's
program to parliament.


In that speech he included a vow to secure the release of
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit and to expand a truce in
the Gaza Strip.


However, Haniya -- a member of Hamas -- also proclaimed
Palestinians' right to all forms of resistance.


"The national unity government's reference to right of resistance
is disturbing and contradicts directly the Quartet principle of
renunciation of violence," said US State Department spokeswoman
Nancy Bell.


"We will continue to work with President Abbas who was directly
elected by the Palestinian people on a platform of peace, and who
has reaffirmed his continuing commitment to these principles and
to partnership in pursuit of peace," Bell said.


Washington also urged the new government to start its rule by
"freeing Corporal Shalit, disbanding illegal security units and
preventing acts of terror."

