

MySpace pages of 10 US presidential candidates will debut on
Monday when the popular social networking website goes live with
a channel devoted to politics, civic groups, and charitable
missions.


News Corporation's MySpace will launch Impact Channel at
http://impact.myspace.com to provide a place on the Internet for
people worldwide to rally around political candidates or
cherished causes.


The channel will begin with a focus on contenders vying to win
the 2008 US presidential election.


A preview of the Impact Channel main page revealed photo links to
profile pages of Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton, John Edwards, Rudy
Giuliani, Duncan Hunter, Dennis Kucinich, John McCain, Barack
Obama, Ron Paul, and Mitt Romney.


The website also featured video clips in which presidential
candidates and other politicians, including California Governor
Arnold Schwarzenegger, discussed issues or developments involved
in the race.


Visitors to the website are provided easy ways to copy
candidates' virtual election banners or badges to personal
MySpace pages and to become part of online fundraising networks
for campaigns.


"As the country's most trafficked Website, MySpace will play a
powerful role in the upcoming election," said MySpace chief
executive Chris DeWolfe.


"Our digital candidate banners will be the yard signs of the 21st
Century and our political viral videos and vlogs (video logs) are
the campaign ads of the future."


Approximately 90 million people used MySpace in February,
according to figures released by Internet market research firm
comScore.


MySpace said the launch of Impact Channel is the first phase of a
plan to use the power of online social networking to generate
enthusiasm for, and involved in, politics and civic issues.


"It is, in many respects, a revolutionary step in the way
political candidates are engaging with voters," MySpace vice
president Jeff Berman told AFP.


"Users are looking for more ways to interact with candidates for
office and people doing good in the world. For candidates and do-
gooders, this is a home for their profiles and their
communities."


While the Impact Channel was launching with a focus on the US
presidential election, it will be expanded to be used globally
for political contests of all kinds as well as by non-profit
organizations, Berman said.


"It is a brand new way of engaging the community and empowering
them to make a difference," Berman said.


"It works just as well for the president of the United States as
it does for president of the student council and as well for
Habitat for Humanity as it does for the Burrito Project."


After word of Burrito Project, a small charity group that helps
feed the homeless in Los Angeles, spread on MySpace it inspired
the start of a kindred organization called Falafel Project in
Damascus, Syria, according to Berman.


"This is a way to reach a global audience and make an impact
around the world," Berman said of the new MySpace channel.


"We are thrilled that people who want to make a difference in the
world are using MySpace to do so."


Inspiration for Impact Channel came from "an enormous" number of
users seeking ways "to do good," according to MySpace.


"The idea that we could help redemocratize politics in the 21st
Century; how could we not be excited about that?" Berman asked
rhetorically.


The Impact Channel was modeled after MySpace music and video
channels at which artists create virtual storefronts to promote
and sell their works.


The Impact Channel will enable visitors to learn about the
candidates, experience the political process online and offline,
and uncover issues and organizations, MySpace said.


"MySpace will be a powerful force in the next election," said
Julie Barko Germany, deputy director of the Institute for
Politics Democracy and the Internet at George Washington
University.


"MySpace users will have direct access to candidates and be able
to serve as digital storefronts for their campaigns, taking
netroots politics to the next level. It's part of a trend that's
revolutionizing the way politicians and the public interact."

