

Veterans of South Africa's 1999 World Cup insist they will not be
haunted by the nightmare of their exit at the hands of Australia
when they square up once again at the semi-final stage Wednesday.


The Proteas have been trying to shake off the tag of chokers ever
since the infamous last ball run-out of Allan Donald at Edgbaston
eight years ago when a single would have secured victory and a
place in the Lord's final.


Four of that team will once again take to the field against
Australia on Wednesday in St Lucia, including batsman Herschelle
Gibbs, who was taunted by Steve Waugh that he had dropped the
World Cup after he spilled a catch in an earlier group game
bewteen the two.


"It did leave one or two little scars but as a cricketer if
you're going to have a long career, you're going to have scars,
every cricketer has had them," said wicketkeeper Mark Boucher.


"It's how you get up from those moments when you're down and
bounce back," he told The Star newspaper.


The Edgbaston semi-final is widely regarded as the greatest ever
World Cup game but many commentators believe the trauma dogged
the Proteas for years, and was partly responsible for their lame
first-round exit when they hosted the tournament in 2003.


Shaun Pollock, the team's captain in 2003 and who continues to
open the bowling, said that lessons had been learned.


"The '99 World Cup was an exceptional game, the emotions swung
from team to team," he said.


"One side had it wrapped up and then the other side had it won
and it kept like that, to and fro.


"We've had some close encounters over the years and we've learnt
something from all the close encounters. From our side, an
experienced side, we really are ripe for anything we have to deal
with."


Batsman Jacques Kallis, the current tournament's leading run-
scorer after Australia's Matthew Hayden, said the team had long
ago put the result behind them.


"You move on from those games, you take what you can from them.
Like Mark said, we woke up the next morning, the sun came up and
we had lots of cricket ahead of us. So you've got to move on.


"I don't think about it, perhaps just take the positives out of
it."


The carefree Gibbs meanwhile said that he had managed to put the
defeat behind him within hours.


"I had a bit of a hangover the next morning and that took care of
that," said the dashing batsman.

