

Three former Indian captains, including batting legend Sunil
Gavaskar, were Monday named as members of a high-powered panel to
select Greg Chappell's successor as national coach.


Srinivas Venkataraghavan and Ravi Shastri are the other ex-
captains on the seven-member committee headed by Indian cricket
chief Sharad Pawar, the Board of Control for Cricket in India
(BCCI) said.


Chappell, a former Australian skipper, declined to renew his two-
year term for "family and personal reasons" after India crashed
out in the first round of the World Cup in the Caribbean.


Shastri, now a popular television commentator, was named interim
coach-manager for next month's tour of Bangladesh, but he
declined to continue after that, citing media commitments.


India must find a new man before the tour of England in July,
with reports suggesting that outgoing Bangladesh coach Dav
Whatmore and Sri Lanka's Australian coach Tom Moody are serious
contenders.


Gavaskar, Venkataraghavan and Shastri were members of the panel
that picked Chappell as coach in May 2005.


The influential Gavaskar said in his syndicated newspaper column
last weekend that appointing Chappell had not served the team's
purpose.


"When Chappell took over, there was optimism all around that
Indian cricket would be ready to challenge Australia for the
title of the best team in the world," Gavaskar wrote.


"Instead, at the end of his tenure, Indian cricket is down in the
dumps with a first-round exit in the World Cup, and is as
fractured and divided as seldom before.


"Despite all this, and him (Chappell) saying in an interview that
the BCCI is run like Zimbabwe, the BCCI is reportedly offering
him a place as a consultant to the National Cricket Academy.


"It's never easy sacking somebody, however incapable and
inefficient, but to give another job which deals with the future
of Indian cricket, makes one wonder if we will ever get out of
the inferiority complex syndrome."


Gavaskar, the first batsman to reach the 10,000-run mark in Test
cricket, also took a dig at reports that Chappell was going to
head the Australian Cricket Academy.


"If true, then it could be the best thing that has happened for
world cricket," the former Indian opener wrote.


"Now even Ireland have a chance of beating Australia sooner
(rather) than later."


BCCI secretary Niranjan Shah, treasurer N. Srinivasan and joint
secretary Mohinder Pandove were the others named on the new panel
to pick the coach.

