

Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov will begin a two-
day visit to Russia, his country's main energy partner, on Monday
for trade talks, the Kremlin press office said.


Berdymukhammedov is scheduled to meet Russian President Vladimir
Putin on Tuesday and the visit will centre on securing natural
gas exports to Russia from the Central Asian state, Russian
newspapers reported.


The talks between Berdymukhammedov and Putin "will focus on
increasing economic cooperation" in which the "main determinant"
is energy, the Kremlin said in a statement.


Turkmenistan has some of the largest gas reserves in the world
and Berdymukhammedov has been wooed by top US and Russian
officials since his election in February after the death of
Turkmen dictator Saparmurat Niyazov.


"The high-level talks in Moscow will of course open a new page in
the chronicle of bilateral relations, based on solid legal
foundations and fundamental agreements," the state-owned Turkmen
news agency TDN said.


Washington has sought to encourage Turkmenistan to end its
dependence on gas export routes through Russia and instead make
use of a new gas pipeline across Azerbaijan and Turkey.


Russian officials, however, have stressed that the new leadership
in Turkmenistan should respect a 25-year gas supply agreement
signed by Moscow and Ashgabat in 2003.


Russia is the world's biggest gas exporter but depends on cheap
gas imports from Central Asia, chiefly from Turkmenistan, for
domestic use and to make up large gas export volumes to Europe.


Turkmenistan exported 41 billion cubic metres of gas to Russia
last year, the Kremlin said.


Russia also wants Turkmenistan, which has a neutral foreign
policy stance, to become a full member of a Moscow-led group of
former Soviet states called the Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS), the Vremya Novostei daily said.


Turkmenistan is currently only an associate member of the CIS.


Berdymukhammedov's visit will be his second foreign trip since
his election after the head of the predominantly Muslim former
Soviet republic visited Saudi Arabia earlier this month.

