

The European Union on Monday voiced new concern at "serious
violations of human rights" in Myanmar and extended its sanctions
against the military regime there for another year.


EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg published a statement
expressing "deep concern on the lack of tangible progress on the
promised transition towards a legitimate civilian government".


The sanctions, first introduced in 1996 after Yangon failed to
meet EU demands for greater democracy, were "rolled over" with
agreement of all 27 EU member states without debate.


The EU foreign ministers reiterated their call for Myanmar
opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi to be freed from house arrest
and also for the launch of a national dialogue for reconciliation
and an end to human rights abuses.


The EU "calls for an end to the military campaign against
civilians," the ministers added.


Despite all their concern, the EU foreign ministers stated their
"willingness to consider the suspension of these restrictive
measures and to substantially step up co-operation in response to
substantial improvement in the political situation in Myanmar".


Under the sanctions, renewed annually, members of the ruling
military junta and their families are forbidden to enter EU
member states. EU companies or organisations are also forbidden
to invest in Myanmar.


The military has spelled out a "road map" for democracy,
including talks on a new constitution, but Aung San Suu Kyi's
party has boycotted the process, which critics have called a
sham.


EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner said
last month that until Yangon improves its human rights record, it
is unlikely that the European Union will be able to reach a trade
agreement encompassing the countries of the Southeast Asian
grouping ASEAN, of which Myanmar is a member.


Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for
Democracy party won elections in 1990 but was barred from taking
power by the military.


She has spent most of the subsequent 17 years under house arrest,
during which time her husband died and her children have grown
up.

