

Bangladesh's last premier Khaleda Zia has packed her bags for an
imminent departure into exile, a source close to the family said
Monday, the day after her arch rival was barred from returning to
the country.


Zia and her long-time adversary Sheikh Hasina Wajed, the head of
the Awami League and also a former prime minister, are being
forced out as part of a corruption crackdown by emergency-ruled
Bangladesh's interim government.


Sheikh Hasina, who was charged in absentia with involvement in
political killings, was on Sunday stopped from boarding a flight
from London's Heathrow airport to Dhaka -- in line with a
government order for her to stay abroad.


A source close to Zia's family told AFP that Zia's belongings
stood packed and ready at her residence in Dhaka where she has
been under virtual house arrest for the past week.


"Everything has been packed up in boxes. It is all waiting to be
moved," said the source.


The family, including her daughter-in-laws and three
grandchildren, remained at the house and were awaiting news from
the government, said the source, who asked not to be named.


The Bengali-language daily Naya Diganta, which is close to Zia's
political circle, meanwhile said there was still "uncertainty
about Khalada Zia going to Saudi Arabia" as authorities had
planned.


"The visa activities and other related activities have not yet
been completed," said the paper, which supports the Islamic party
Jamaat-e-Islami -- the main ally of Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP).


Reports over the weekend had said visa arrangements were close to
being finalised and that a specially chartered plane has been
waiting at Dhaka airport to take her to Saudi Arabia.


But the paper quoted a government source saying that if visas for
Saudi Arabia are not secured for Zia and her family, other
countries would also be considered -- including Kuwait, the
United Arab Emirates, Oman and Singapore.


"The officers have not yet come to her house. She was told to
pack up, but there are still some visa complications," another
source close to the family said.


Zia is reported to have agreed to leave the country in return for
leniency for her two sons.


Her influential elder son Tareque Rahman has been in custody
since March on extortion charges. Zia's younger son Arafat Rahman
was briefly arrested last week and also faces corruption
allegations.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, who are arch rivals and said to hate each
other, are accused of years of misrule that ended in a cancelled
elections and the imposition of a state of emergency earlier this
year.


The new government, which has behind the scenes support from the
armed forces, has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's notoriously
corrupt and dysfunctional political system before holding new
elections before the end of 2008.


Zia's four-party coalition government stepped down at the end of
its five-year term in October.


As part of its anti-graft campaign, the current government has
arrested scores of prominent figures from both parties on
corruption allegations.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina are both members of opposing Bangladeshi
political dynasties.


They are known as the "battling begums" for their longstanding
personal rivalry, and have ruled the country alternately since
democracy was reinstated in 1991. Begum is a Muslim honorific.

