

Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf will be elected for a second
term by the sitting parliament in September or October before it
is dissolved ahead of general elections, Premier Shaukat Aziz
said.


Aziz's comments are the first confirmation of a move that has
been floated in political circles for months and that opposition
groups say is unconstitutional.


They say military ruler Musharraf, who seized power in a
bloodless coup in 1999, should be elected by the legislature
after the parliamentary polls, which are due late this year or
early next.


"The election of president is due in September-October this year
and... President Musharraf will be re-elected by the present
assemblies with comfortable majority," Aziz was quoted as saying
late Sunday by the state-run Associated Press of Pakistan.


He added that Musharraf himself would decide when to shed his
role as army chief and that the current assemblies "through two
third-majority passed a bill to allow President Musharraf to keep
the uniform till December this year."


General Musharraf was elected to a five-year term in 2002 by an
electoral college of the national parliament and senate and the
country's four provincial assemblies.


He promised to shed his uniform at the end of 2004 but reneged on
the pledge, saying he needed to keep his military role to tackle
extremism and other threats to the country.


The move detailed by Aziz comes at a time of political turmoil in
Pakistan following Musharraf's dismissal of the country's chief
justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, on March 9.


Opposition groups have said that Musharraf did so to to weaken
the judiciary ahead of any potential legal challenges against his
plans to stay on as army chief and to get reelected by the
current parliament.


But recent talk of of a possible deal to allow former Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto to return from exile and become prime
minister shows that Musharraf is trying to strengthen his grip on
power in other ways, analysts say.

