

Two teenage girls who admitted murdering their friend told police
it "felt right" to strangle her, an Australian court heard
Monday.


The 17-year-old girls, who cannot be named because of their age,
were facing a sentencing hearing in Perth Children's Court after
pleading guilty to murdering Eliza Davis in the small coal mining
town of Collie in June.


The girls sat stony-faced in court as prosecutor Simon Stone said
they had confessed that after partying with Eliza one Saturday
night they decided to kill her, the national AAP news agency
reported.


"Sunday morning me and (the other accused) woke up, and we were
just talking, and for some reason we just decided to kill her,"
one of the girls told police in her interview.


"We just did it because we felt like it, it is hard to explain,"
the other girl said.


"I knew we had wanted to kill someone before. We knew it was
wrong, but it didn't feel wrong at all, it just felt right."


One of them sneaked up behind Eliza as she was reading, wrapped
speaker wire around her throat and tightened it as the other held
her down, trying to press a chemical-soaked cloth into her mouth.


"She started not being able to get her breath, and we just kept
going," one of the girls told police.


"She was just yelling at us 'What the fuck, what are you doing'
.. 'Oh you freaks, what's wrong with you psychos."


One of the girls told police: "As our friend, we did not really
want her to suffer."


The girls regretted the fuss the killing caused but neither felt
remorse for their dead friend, Stone said.


"If she had died another way it probably would have bothered me
... but it just did not," one girl said.


The girls reported Eliza missing after they buried her and
pretended to help her family look for the dead girl.


They turned themselves in several days later, walking into
separate police stations and directing authorities to where they
buried her body.


Stone told the court the girls had no remorse and were holding
back on the reason behind their cold-blooded, premeditated,
sadistic killing.


"It is a mystery your honour, what happened."


He said the girls had prepared for homicide by killing two
kittens.


He called for sentences of life in prison.


Outside the court, Eliza's mother told reporters the girls should
get the maximum punishment.


"They should stay in jail for the rest of their lives and no one
else should have to go through what we are going through. If we
had the death penalty they should get the death penalty," she
told national radio.

