

ASEC of Ivory Coast swapped skill for steel to reach the African
Champions League group phase a record-equalling eighth time at
the weekend.


The Abidjan 'Mimosas', renowned for young, skilful footballers,
displayed defensive expertise to force a 0-0 draw with Wydad
Casablanca in Morocco and prevent a North African clean sweep in
the final-round qualifiers.


ASEC qualified 2-0 on aggregate with Ghana-born striker Nafiu
Iddrisu scoring both goals in West Africa two weeks ago to
establish an advantage  Wydad never seriously threatened.


It was a particularly sweet success for the Ivorians on their
return to the 80,000-seat Mohamed V Stadium in the Moroccan
commercial capital after a four- goal mauling from Raja
Casablanca in the 2002 semi-finals.


But the other seven sub-Saharan challengers fell by the wayside
as clubs from Libya and Sudan joined those from traditional
giants Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt among the eight
survivors.


Esperance and Etoile Sahel of Tunisia, title holders Al-Ahly of
Egypt,    Al- Hilal of Sudan, Al-Ittihad of Libya, FAR Rabat of
Morocco and Jeunesse Sportive Kabylie of Algeria complete the
line-up.


The clubs will be split into two groups and those finishing first
and second after playing their three rivals at home and away
advance to the semi-finals of the 42-year competition.


Hilal are the unlikeliest qualifiers, wiping out a 3-0 first-leg
deficit against Nasarawa United of Nigeria with victory by a
similar score in steamy Omdurman before squeezing through 3-2 on
post-match penalties.


Having fallen at the final qualifying hurdle four times, Hilal
finally made it via a multi-national effort with Mozambican Dario
Khan, Nigerian Kelechi Osunwa and Sudanese Youssef Mohammed
scoring in regulation time.


Ittihad also staged a brave second-leg recovery, defeating Etoile
of Congo 2-0 in Tripoli via two second-half Salem Rewami
penalties to go through on  away goals after a 3-3 aggregate
deadlock.


Drama abounded with Nassim Hamlaoui scoring one minute from full-
time to give Kabylie a 2-0 triumph in Algiers over Cotonsport
Garoua of Cameroon, who  have failed seven times to progress
beyond the eliminators.


Khalid al-Maaroufi struck with three minutes left to give FAR a
2-0 home win over Tout Puissant Mazembe Englebert of the
Democratic Republic of Congo and a first appearance among the
last eight.


Midfield magician Mohamed Aboutraika celebrated his return to
international football after a three-month injury layoff with a
superb late goal to complete a 2-0 triumph for Ahly over Mamelodi
Sundowns of South Africa in Cairo.


A superb Emad Moteab through ball from the centre circle sprang
the Sundowns offside trap and Aboutraika burst through before
deftly chipping the ball over advancing goalkeeper Calvin Marlin.


On the back foot after a 2-2 draw in Pretoria, Sundowns matched
Ahly until the final quarter with captain and defender Shady
Mohamed opening the scoring from a 69th-minute penalty after a
reckless tackle on Mohamed Barakat.


The Tunisian qualifiers enjoyed comfortable passages with
Esperance forcing a goalless draw with Young Africans of Tanzania
in the lakeside town of Mwanza to preserve a 3-0 lead from the
first encounter.


Young Africans could not convert numerous scoring chances despite
a numerical superiority from midway through the first half when
Chakib Lachkham saw red for insulting the Zimbabwean referee.


Medamine Charmiti and Aymen Soltani scored during the opening
half to set Etoile Sahel up for a 3-0 win over Maranatha Fiokpo
of Togo in the Mediterranean town of Sousse after a goalless
first leg.

