

A blind British pilot landed his microlight aircraft in the
northern Australian city of Darwin on Monday as he neared the end
of a London-Sydney charity flight.


Miles Hilton-Barber, 55, flew his Pegasus Mainair GT 450 into
Darwin international airport after strong headwinds had forced
him to make an unplanned landing in Kununurra in a remote part of
Western Australia on Sunday.


The blind adventurer's arrival in Australia 46 days after setting
off from London followed one of his longest flights over water,
from Kupang in Indonesia.


"This has been a dream of my life," he told reporters after
touching down in Darwin.


"I can hardly believe I am here in Oz. I will believe it when
someone sticks a cold beer in my hand. I've been hinting at it
but it hasn't happened yet."


Hilton-Barber, who has been blind for 25 years, has travelled
13,500 miles (22,000 kilometres) across 19 countries with the aim
of raising one million pounds (1.5 million euros, 1.9 million
dollars) to fight blindness in developing countries.


Hilton-Barber, with a sighted co-pilot, relies on speech output
from his navigation instruments to steer his course, directing
the microlight from a wireless keyboard.


"It's a very primitive form of flying, but for a blind man it's
wonderful because it is very sensual. You can smell the smells
coming up from the ground and I can feel the temperature, the
wind, the cold," he said.


He will make several stops within Australia before reaching
Sydney on Saturday to become the first blind pilot to fly half-
way across the world.


"We've had a few dodgy flights," he said. "Over the Lebanese
mountains at 13,000 feet (4,000 metres) we got caught in a very
bad, freaky snowstorm.


"We had ice all over the plane and icicles on our suits."


At the other extreme, bad thermal weather in the desert over
Saudi Arabia suddenly catapulted his machine upwards "like
getting in a lift and going up three floors in a second."


"When you've got one little seatbelt on that's quite scary," he
said.


Hilton-Barber is a motivational speaker who says "the only limits
in our lives are those we accept ourselves."


In 1999 he completed the "Toughest Foot-race on Earth" -- 250
kilometres across the Sahara Desert -- before running in the
"Coldest Marathon on Earth -- the Siberian Ice Marathon.


He has climbed Mt Kilimanjaro and Mt Blanc, Africa and Europe's
highest mountains, and set the Malaysian Grand Prix lap record
for a blind driver in a 200 kilometre per hour Lotus.

