

French newspapers on Monday hailed the country's "democratic
awakening" after a first round presidential vote that saw a huge
turnout and gave voters a clear left-right choice in next month's
run-off.


In rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy, 52, and Socialist Segolene Royal,
53, who topped Sunday's poll, the French press saw a classic duel
between a new generation of right and left that had trounced
extreme elements on both sides.


Sarkozy, the tough-talking former interior minister, won 31
percent of the vote while Royal garnered 26 percent and they will
square off in the second round on May 6.


Turnout was 84.6 percent -- the highest for more than 40 years
and a figure applauded by newspapers across the political
spectrum.


Jean-Marie Colombani, editor-in-chief of Le Monde newspaper, said
the mass turnout amounted to a "democratic awakening" that
reflected a national desire to "wipe out the memory" of the first
round vote five years ago.


A huge abstention rate in 2002 and a high vote for the political
extremes meant that far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie le
Pen qualified for round two instead of the Socialist Lionel
Jospin -- a result that shocked the world and deprived the French
left of a candidate in the run-off.


"What it means is that this time there will be no sense of
frustration on the eve of the second round," said Colombani.


"People will have the means to make a clear choice. They will
make one, and the country will discover what direction it has
chosen, and what direction it must now take," he said.


For Christophe Barbier, editor of L'Express news magazine, "The
French wanted so much to have this head-to-head between Royal and
Sarkozy -- between a left in the process of renewal and a
confident new right."


Barbier said that Sarkozy should have the advantage ahead of the
second round run-off on May 6, counting on carry-over votes from
Le Pen and centrist Francois Bayrou.


"But nothing is decided. Segolene Royal has one important weapon:
the 'Anyone but Sarko' option. We can expect a second round which
brings out all his character faults and ideological excesses.


"In short -- it's back to where we were at the start of the
campaign. Except for one excellent piece of news. The French
voted en masse. The passion of the campaign was transformed into
passion in the polling booths. And that must count as a major
advance for French democracy," he said on L'Express's Internet
site.


Analyst Nicole Beytout wrote in Le Figaro that the election day
had provided "an ecstatic rebuttal to those who, for the past 10
years, have been saying that we are witnessing the end of
politics."


An editorial in Liberation said the turnout had shown the
"blinding clarity of the popular will" of an electorate that had
been written off as weary and disinterested.

