

Top British arts and sports chiefs warned Monday that funding
cuts to pay for the 2012 London Olympics would undermine the
future of their institutions and even reduce participation in
sport.


The government plans to divert 675 million pounds (1.35 billion
dollars, 995 million euros) from arts and sports bodies, which
brought united criticism from the organisations affected.


The money comes from Britain's national lottery, usually used to
fund to "good causes" such as charities and to support sports and
arts projects.


Nicholas Hytner, director of the National Theatre, was scathing
towards the proposals by Tessa Jowell, the culture, media and
sport secretary and minister for the Olympics.


"There is a spectacular lack of logic in using money earmarked
for the arts to plug the holes in the Olympic bills," Hytner
said, according to Monday's edition of The Guardian newspaper.


"The money raided from the lottery will largely affect small,
innovative, experimental organisations and individuals who are
the lifeblood of creativity in the UK.


"Pulling the carpet from under them and nobbling their money is
undermining the future of our major arts institutions."


Tim Lamb, chief executive of the Central Council for Physical
Recreation, added: "If there is to be a real legacy of increasing
participation in sport, it seems ironic, if not perverse, for
money to be taken away from community sport to fund the
Olympics."


Jowell said no existing lottery-funded projects would be affected
because the diversion would not begin until 2009 and the lottery
would also have first call on the profits from the sale of land
after the Olympics.


"Look at the safeguards we have put in place to meet your
concerns... see it as more of a loan to the Olympics... There
will never be a greater opportunity to showcase what you do, not
just to Britain, but to the rest of the world," Jowell said
Sunday.


The budget for the 2012 Olympics has soared to 9.3 billion pounds
(18.6 billion dollars, 13.7 billion euros), nearly four times
more than the first projections of how much it would cost to
stage the Games in London.


Arts Council England, the national development agency for the
arts, will have 112.5 million pounds sliced from its budget to
help cover the cost, while the Heritage Lottery Fund will lose
161.2 million pounds and Sport England faces a 99.9 million pound
cut.

