

England striker Michael Owen could make his long awaited debut
this season in Newcastle's clash with Reading next Monday,
according to his manager Glen Roeder.


Owen had been slated for a possible appearance against champions
Chelsea on Sunday but the 27-year-old did not even figure on the
bench.


But now Roeder is convinced his star forward is ready for a
return to first team action and will not play him in the reserves
against Bolton on Tuesday.


"If Michael is involved in an 11 v 11 this week, it will be on
the training ground against ourselves," he said.


"In my opinion now, Michael does not need to be playing against
any opposition in a friendly.


"The next time we will see Michael Owen, it will be in a
competitive game."


After 10 months on the sidelines recovering from the anterior
cruciate ligament rupture he suffered at last summer's World Cup
finals, Owen is desperate to return and stake his claim for a
place in the England squad for the friendly against Brazil and
the European Championship qualifier in Estonia in June.


That is the subject of a battle between his club and the Football
Association amid a row over World Cup compensation, although
chairman Freddy Shepherd is adamant he has no problem with his
record 17 million pounds (34 million dollars) signing playing for
England.


Roeder is concentrating solely on the task of getting the club's
prize asset back on the field, and that is a process he refuses
to rush as Owen attempts to shake off a minor groin strain.


"It is not a problem at all. He is just not fully-fit. It is
hardly worth a mention," Roeder said of that injury.


"But he has been out for so long, it is important that when he
returns, we know he is 100 percent fully fit.


"We have just got to wait until he is fully fit, and you know how
much I am prepared to be patient with all players.


"I have shown that always and I will never change from being a
patient person because I know patience pays off in the long run.


"He has got a full week now ... to the Reading game, and we will
certainly know by the middle to the end of the week whether he is
going to make that."


While Owen will not line up against Bolton's second string, Shola
Ameobi will, a week after scoring in a 5-1 drubbing of derby
rivals Middlesbrough at the Riverside Stadium.


Ameobi has been out of action for six months after hip surgery
but, like Owen, he too could make the Reading game.


Roeder said: "Shola is going to play in the reserves and I am
hoping he will be fit for the Reading game, maybe to start, maybe
to be involved in some shape or form - and I would not rule
Michael out at all."

