

Standard and Poor's said Monday that it had raised its sovereign
credit ratings on Japan for the first time to reflect its
positive economic outlook and efforts to rein in a massive
national debt.


The agency upgraded its foreign and local currency long-term
sovereign ratings by one notch to the third-highest AA grade from
AA-minus.


It is the first time that S and P has upgraded the world's second
largest economy since it started coverage in 1975 and comes five
years after it last downgraded Japan due to rampant deflation and
slow structural reform.


"The upgrade is based on Japan's progress in the fiscal, monetary
and structural fronts," S and P credit analyst Takahira Ogawa
said in a statement.


"Policymakers have been triply challenged to consolidate fiscal
accounts and to restructure the private sector without restoking
deflationary pressure. Our assessment is that they are meeting
the test," Ogawa added.


The agency assigned Japan a stable outlook "based on the
expectation that the current government will continue its public
sector reform.


"Faster progress than expected could improve the outlook on the
sovereign ratings on Japan. Conversely, downward pressure on the
ratings could arise if the government's fiscal consolidation
efforts stall," S and P said.


In the medium-term, Japan faces demographic challenges and
further pension system reform will be needed to cope with the
shift, the agency said.


S and P drew protests from the Japanese government with a series
of downgrades from the top notch AAA, most recently in April 2002
to AA-minus, which at the time was the worst among the Group
Seven industrialised nations.


Since then Italy has been the only G7 nation to have slipped
further down the rankings.


Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki said the upgrade
underscored Japan's solid economic fundamentals, reduced bad loan
problems in the banking sector and the government's efforts to
improve the public finances.


"Japan's policy of tackling structural reform will remain
unchanged," he added.


S and P predicted that Japan's public debt would stabilise at 133
percent of gross domestic production (GDP) by the year to March
2013.


At the same time, the central government budget deficit is
expected to decline to the equivalent of five percent of GDP in
the current fiscal year to next March, down from 8.2 percent in
the year to March 2003, it said.


Japan's central bank had also "successfully" exited its zero
interest rate policy while the Japanese economy is set to grow by
about two percent a year for the next few years -- twice the
level in the decade to 2004, S and P added.


The Bank of Japan raised interest rates last July for the first
time in almost six years as it sought to wean the economy off its
ultra-loose emergency monetary policy following an easing of
deflationary pressures.


The BoJ has kept its key interest rate on hold at 0.5 percent
since a second quarter point hike in February.


Japan's public debt is the highest among industrialised nations
after the government spent trillions of yen on emergency spending
packages to try to haul the economy out of its deflation doldrums
in the 1990s.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office in September,
has signalled his first priority will be stimulating growth
rather than the fiscal belt- tightening championed by his
reformist predecessor Junichiro Koizumi.


But his government also plans to slash bond issuance used to
raise funds, relying on rising tax revenue.


The upgrade gave a boost to the Japanese currency, with the
dollar falling to 118.36 yen in late Tokyo trade from 118.66 yen
late Friday in New York.

