

The new US ambassador in Iraq used his first Baghdad news
conference to urge Iraqi leaders to push forward with attempts to
reconcile their warring communities, warning that the next months
are critical.


Ambassador Ryan Crocker expressed optimism that a joint US and
Iraqi security operation would help reign in the carnage, but
that this would not be enough to end the war unless political
progress is made.


"I think the Baghdad Security Plan led by Iraq, supported by the
coalition, can buy time, but what it does is buy time for what
ultimately has to be a set of political understandings among
Iraqis," he told reporters.


"These months ahead are going to be critical as this plan
continues forward to increase security and gain the time, but
most especially as Iraqis then try and use that time to grapple
with some of these difficult issues," he said.


Crocker also welcomed the prospect of next month's ministerial
conference of Iraq's neighbours and world powers, which he said
ought to generate international support for Iraqi peace efforts.


Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has invited ministers from
his Middle Eastern neighbours, the G8 group of industrial powers
and the permanent members of the UN Security Council to a meeting
in Egypt on May 3 and 4.


It is not yet clear whether Iran, which the United States accuses
of stirring unrest in Iraq, will attend, but Crocker expressed
the hope that Tehran would send a representative.


A career diplomat, Middle East expert and former US ambassador to
Pakistan, Kuwait and Lebanon, Crocker was confirmed as US
ambassador to Iraq on March 7 and took up his duties on March 29.


His predecessor Zalmay Khalilzad served as Iraq slipped into the
chaos of sectarian warfare and Crocker arrives as the US military
force that invaded Iraq in March 2003 is boosting its troop
numbers to cope with the crisis.


"The road is going to be a tough one," he said. "I don't begin my
tour here with any illusions. It's going to be very, very
difficult, but I certainly believe that success is possible or
else I wouldn't be standing here."

