

British Prime Minister Tony Blair and German motor racing legend
Michael Schumacher teamed up Monday to demand a United Nations
conference on tackling global road deaths.


Blair said road crashes were the second-biggest cause of death
for young men following HIV/AIDS, while seven-time world Formula
One champion Schumacher said the international community needed
to wake up to the "horrific waste of life."


In 2002, the latest year for which figures are available, 1.2
million people of all ages died on the road -- including 1,000
young people per day -- and between 20 and 50 million were
injured, according to the UN.


To mark the start of the UN's Global Road Safety Week, Schumacher
was in London to join British road safety organisations in
launching a global petition calling for a UN conference, while
Blair's comments came in a video statement.


"Every minute of every day a child is killed or seriously injured
on the world's roads," said the prime minister.


"Road crashes are the second leading cause of death for young men
after HIV/AIDS, and in some African countries more than 70
percent of those killed on the roads are young breadwinners.


"It is becoming clear that road injury has a serious impact on
the wider development goals we are all trying to achieve. So I
commend the proposal that the UN should organise a global
ministerial meeting on road safety."


Schumacher said: "A thousand young people under the age of 25 die
every day on the roads.


"Road crashes kill on the scale of malaria or tuberculosis, yet
the international community has not woken up to this horrific
waste of life."


He said he strongly supported the UN conference proposal "to
tackle this preventable loss of life."


The global cost of road accidents, among people of all ages, is
put at 518 billion dollars a year, according to 2002 UN figures.


Low- and middle-income countries accounted for 65-100 billion
dollars of this, which is more than they received in annual
development aid and equivalent.

