

After clinching 99 titles in as many years, Egypt's Al-Ahly --
one of the most trophy-laden clubs in world football -- is set to
celebrate its centennial in style by hosting Barcelona.


For the millions of supporters of the "Red Devils", facing off
against the European champions is not just a fitting tribute to
an illustrious past but also to their newly-acquired status on
the international scene.


"The club will play a game against FC Barcelona on Tuesday, which
will be the highlight of a series of celebrations spanning an
entire year," Sherif Seif al- Nasr, the club official in charge
of centennial celebrations, told AFP.


The only previous encounter between the two clubs took place in
1961 and resulted in a 6-1 drubbing of the Egyptian outfit.


The 67,500 seats for Tuesday's game were snatched up within hours
of going on sale, with ticket prices ranging from 4 to 525
dollars.


Barcelona took 1.5 million euros for the jubilee, which comes as
the Spanish giants are involved in a thrilling end-of-season
tussle with Real Madrid and Sevilla to retain their domestic Liga
title, Seif al-Nasr said.


Ahly's target will be to secure a 32nd home league triumph this
year, a likely prospect as striker Mohammed Abu Treika and his
men have already opened up a 12 point gap at the top of the
table.


That would provide the icing on the cake all the fans are hoping
for, bringing the club its 100th piece of silverware in its 100th
anniversary year.


After winning its second consecutive Africans Champions League
trophy last year and clinching an unprecedented third spot in the
intercontinental cup, Ahly has been in unstoppable form of late.


Ahly boasts around 100,000 members and a fan base estimated at 50
million, making it the most popular club in Egypt, despite its
bitter rivalry with Zamalek and the largest club on the
continent.


The Cairo club's history has always been closely tied to that of
Egypt.


The "African club of the century" was founded on April 24, 1907
by Omar Lutfi Bey, a senior official who wanted a purely national
club to counter British dominance of the country, which extended
to sports.


However the club's first chairman was finance ministry official
Mitchel Ince.


"Choosing Ince, a Briton, for this nationalist club was
justified. He controlled the country's finances and was therefore
able to finance the club. Nobody could have provided stronger
support," leading Egyptian sports columnist Alaa Sadek told AFP.


"Ahly's victories, especially the early ones against the British,
strengthened a feeling of national pride," said Sadek, whose
three-tome encyclopedia on Ahly is to be released in August.


Ahly sporting club has since produced the country's finest
athletes, many of whom became the first Egyptians and often the
first Africans to win international competitions.


Ahly weightlifter Sayed Nosseir won the country's first ever
Olympic gold medal in Amsterdam in 1928. Amr Shabana also added
to the club's honours by clinching the world squash title in 2003
and powering on to the top spot in the rankings, which he still
occupies.


The football club has had its share of heroes throughout the
years, but all eyes Tuesday will be on Abu Treika, whose classy
playmaking and ruthless goalscoring skills have earned him the
nickname of "smiling assassin".


Red flags have started adorning balconies and cars in Cairo and
the rest of the country ahead of the Barcelona game. The national
club kept its colours even when the country's flag switched to
green in 1924 after independence.


Among its most famous supporters were Saad Zaghlul, the
nationalist leader struggled against British occupation, and
Gamal Abdel Nasser, former president and champion of pan-Arabism.


The club experienced a dry patch in the late 1960s to early 1970s
but otherwise has dominated national football for much of its
existence, together with bitter Cairo foes Zamalek.


"The club has only two weaknesses: a limited budget which
currently doesn't exceed 26 million dollars and limited fame in
the West," Sadek said.

