

The head of the US missile defence agency, General Henry Obering,
warned of the "growing Iranian missile threat" Monday during a
visit here aimed at convincing Czech officials to host part of
the US anti-missile shield.


"We believe that this radar in the Czech Republic will protect
European allies and our deployed forces in the region against
what we see as a growing Iranian missile threat," Obering said at
a joint press conference with the leader of the main opposition
Social Democrats, Jiri Paroubek.


Obering underlined the crucial role of the Czech Republic and
Poland in Washington's plans to defend against the perceived
threat of a possible missile attack ordered by Tehran.


"We did an analysis of the trajectories from Iran into Europe and
from Iran into the US and it turned out that Poland and the Czech
Republic are the two nations ideal for the interceptors and long-
range radar, respectively," he added, referring to the plans to
place different parts of the shield in the neighbouring Central
European countries.


"From a strategic perspective, if we begin to join together US
capacities and NATO capacities, and even Russian capacities, it
will begin to diminish the value of these ballistic missiles in
the eyes of countries such as Iran," Obering added.


Obering's Czech visit comes on the same day as US Defense
Secretary Robert Gates launched a charm offensive in Moscow aimed
at overcoming Russia's fierce opposition to the extension of its
missile defences into Central Europe.


Washington faces a different challenge in Prague. The centre-
right Czech government announced last month that it was willing
to negotiate with the US over hosting a radar station, but it has
no guaranteed majority in parliament which will have the final
say.


Obering was unable to budge former prime minister Paroubek from
altering his party's current opposition.  "We do not agree with
siting this part of the anti- missile system until it will be
part of a NATO defence system and we want this question to be put
to a referendum," Paroubek said.


Washington has held out the prospect of eventually linking its
missile defence system with one still being worked out at NATO
headquarters.


The US proposal has split Czech public opinion with polls in the
former communist, Soviet-bloc country, showing a majority of
Czechs are opposed to a US base on their soil.


Obering earlier met with President Vaclav Klaus and was later due
to answer lawmakers' questions at a lower house defence committee
and attend the government's State Security Council, the top forum
for discussions on national defence.

