

Vietnamese police have arrested a dissident writer accused of
spreading anti- government propaganda, said state media reports
Monday that accused her of defaming the country.


Novelist and journalist Tran Khai Thanh Thuy was arrested on
Saturday in suburban Hanoi for "activities breaking article 88 of
the penal code," said the Vietnam News Agency.


Article 88, which bans disseminating propaganda against the
communist one-party state, carries up to 12 years' jail, with
20-year prison terms possible for "particularly serious crimes."


Thuy was among eight Vietnamese writers who in February received
the annual Hellman/Hammett prize awarded by US-based group Human
Rights Watch (HRW) for "courage in the face of political
persecution."


Her arrest is part of a wider crackdown against political
dissidents which also saw an activist Catholic priest and others
jailed last month.


The Communist Party newspaper Nhan Dan on Monday said Thuy had
written articles "distorting the social, political and economic
situation of Vietnam, denouncing Vietnam for human rights
violations, putting the articles on the internet or sending them
overseas to exile reactionary organisations."


She had also admitted to links with two human rights lawyers,
Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, who face trial on May 11,
and for taking part in the 8406 pro- democracy block, named after
its founding date last year, said the daily.


Thuy, Dai and Nhan all face the same charge under article 88 as
Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly, who was sentenced to eight years'
jail in March.


Nhan Dan also said Thuy had given interviews to foreign radio
stations, taken money from reactionary exile groups, defamed the
Communist Party and its leaders, and called for a boycott of next
month's national assembly elections.


Thuy, born in 1960 and the author of numerous novels and
political essays, was an editor of the printed and online
dissident bulletin To Quoc (Fatherland).


HRW said she has been repeatedly denounced in state-organised
public meetings including a "people's court" in October where
police gathered 300 people in a stadium to insult her.


The New York-based group, in awarding her the Hellman/Hammett
prize, also said that mobs entered her home to call her a traitor
and a prostitute and threatened to beat her, while police had
said they could not protect her.


Thuy was repeatedly detained late last year, then dismissed from
her job in November and kept under house arrest during the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) annual meeting in Hanoi, said
HRW.


PEN, the international fellowship of writers, said she was
detained last October and interrogated about the essays "The
Grotto," "Self-Narration" and "Dialogue" which she wrote
following detentions in September.

