

Ruling party candidate Umar Yar'Adua was on course to win the
Nigerian presidency Monday, according to early results from
disputed elections that were roundly condemned by foreign
observers.


Umar Yar'Adua was leading his two leading opposition rivals in
most southern states and in parts of the northwest and central
north, according to partial results cited by local newspapers and
websites.


As the national electoral commission prepared to issue the
official count in the race to take over from President Olusegun
Obasanjo, opposition leaders demanded a re-run of Saturday's
chaotic poll which foreign monitors said failed to meet
international standards.


The mild-mannered 55-year-old who is governor of one of the
country's northern states is backed by Obasanjo and was the pre-
poll favourite.


His leading rivals, Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Obasanjo's
former friend- turned-foe, and onetime military ruler Muhammadu
Buhari, both slammed the poll as unfair and undemocratic.


"I have already rejected the elections," said Abubakar, demanding
a re-run. "They have no alternative other than to cancel them
altogether."


"What we have seen clearly proves our fears that it is the worst
election ever seen," Abubakar added.


Turnout appeared low for Saturday's presidential and legislative
elections after ballot papers printed at the last minute arrived
hours late, or not at all, in many of the 120,000 voting stations
of Africa's most populous nation.


And printing errors on ballots forced the cancellation of the
race for seats in the parliament and the senate in many parts of
the country of 140 million people.


"Incidents have given rise to concerns that not all Nigerians
entitled to vote really were able to do so freely and without
fear," said the German presidency of the European Union, which
had an observer team on the ground.


A US observer team, the International Republican Institute, cited
under-age voting, stuffed ballot boxes and voter registration
problems, while Nigeria's largest poll monitoring group
threatened to call for a re-run.


"From all the reports we are getting from the field, these were
not credible elections, so it tends to the direction that we will
reject the results and ask for new elections to be held,"
Innocent Chukwuma of the Transition Monitoring Group told AFP.


Saturday's election had been touted as a democratic showcase
marking the African giant's first peaceful handover of power from
one civilian to another since independence in 1960.


With all eyes on the future stability of the world's violence-
prone sixth oil exporter, electoral commission chief Maurice Iwu
insisted Sunday that the polls were successful, free and fair.


To win in the presidential election a candidate must have the
highest number of votes overall and a majority in at least 24 out
of the nation's 36 states.


Saturday's ballot-box confusion was partly caused by an 11th-hour
supreme court decision only last week to allow Abubakar, who is
facing corruption allegations, to run in the election, overruling
his disqualification by the election commission.


That left the electoral commission faced with the mammoth task of
reprinting ballots overseas for 61.5 million eligible voters and
getting them to booths in time for a 0900 GMT start.


According to figures compiled by AFP at least 39 people have died
in election- related violence alone in the past eight days. About
the same number again were killed in religious violence in the
north of the country during the same period.

