

One step closer to her dream of being France's first woman
president, Segolene Royal promises to bring change with a new
leadership style and revamped social programmes for the poor and
unemployed.


Only a year and a half ago she was a relative unknown as
president of the Poitou-Charentes region and appeared destined to
play no more than a senior role in the echelons of the Socialist
Party.


But after successfully beating two party heavyweights for the
Socialist nomination in November, Royal was crowned "the queen of
the polls" as surveys showed she was ahead of right-wing Nicolas
Sarkozy.


The 53-year-old former adviser to president Francois Mitterrand
ran into trouble over a string of foreign policy gaffes and
squabbling within her party that saw her poll numbers take a
nosedive in late January.


But on Sunday, Royal took the second spot in the first round of
the presidential election, advancing to the runoff on May 6
against Sarkozy, who came in first.


A mother of four children, aged 14 to 22, Royal has urged voters
to make the historic choice of putting a woman in the Elysee
palace, promising a new era of democracy with her catch phrase:
"With me, never again will politics be made without you."


Royal has pledged to hold a referendum to replace the current
institutions of government, giving parliament greater oversight
powers and reducing the powers of the presidency.


She has also promised to maintain and improve the welfare state
by creating jobs for the nation's unemployed youth, raising the
minimum wage and boosting small pensions among a raft of new
social programmes.


Critics say her programme is no more than a microwaved version of
old Socialist manifestos that rely on state intervention in the
economy. Supporters say she is in touch with the French people's
desire to maintain a strong social safety net.


"Human values are more important than the value of the stock
market," Royal repeated during her campaign rallies in the run-up
to Sunday's vote.


Polls have consistently shown however that voters see her as
lacking the stature needed to hold the presidency and question
her competence on foreign policy issues.


Royal was harshly criticised for praising China's justice system
during a trip to Beijing, in particular from human rights groups
who noted that China is the world's leader for use of the death
penalty.


Elegant and immaculately turned out, she is articulate, outspoken
and believes profoundly in the mission to create a new contract
between politicians and the public.


But detractors say she is an authoritarian.


The Socialist Party's former economics chief Eric Besson
published a book last month after slamming the door on the party
in which he described Royal as a glory-hunting populist.


While she has sought to portray herself as a woman operating
outside of the traditional party structure, in fact her political
background was strictly conventional.


After attending France's elite National Administration School
ENA, she was cherry-picked to be an advisor to Mitterand, a post
where shhe spent seven years.


In 1988 she was elected to the National Assembly and four years
later had her first cabinet post at the environment ministry. In
the Socialist government of 1997 to 2002 she was junior minister
for education, then the family.


Born in Senegal, Royal was one of eight children of a military
officer from Lorraine in northeast France.  She is also the
partner of Socialist Party leader Francois Hollande -- the father
of her four children.

