

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana on Monday announced a
meeting with Iran's top nuclear negotiator in Turkey this week,
as European foreign ministers agreed sanctions to push Tehran to
suspend uranium enrichment.


"I will be meeting (Ali) Larijani on Wednesday in Turkey," Solana
told reporters in Luxembourg ahead of a European Union foreign
ministers' meeting, adding that the talks would be held in
Ankara.


The 27 foreign ministers meanwhile kept up the pressure by
agreeing on sanctions against Iran, which go further than a
December UN Security Council resolution, Solana's spokeswoman
said.


The ministers drew up a blacklist of people and organisations
linked to Iran's nuclear industry, adding extra names to the
United Nations' list.


"The EU goes a little bit tougher than the UN sanctions," said
Cristina Gallach, spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana, without giving details. "We include more names," she
added.


Iran on Sunday rejected Western calls for a suspension of its
sensitive nuclear activities just days ahead of the crucial
talks.


The United States, which accuses Iran of seeking to make nuclear
weapons, has never ruled out the option of military action to
bring Tehran to heel. Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely
for generating energy.


Iran has shown no sign of yielding in the stand-off, saying that
its uranium enrichment operations have reached an industrial
level and announcing it wishes to install over 50,000 uranium
enriching centrifuges at a plant in Natanz.


"I expect to have a resumption of the talks that we had some time
ago and see if we can move toward negotiations," Solana told
reporters.


Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik voiced confidence
despite the signs of Iranian intransigence.


"We remain confident that Javier will be able to assess, to
explore the possibilities to come into a prenegotiating phase
that would eventually lead to negotiations via a package of
incentives and positive elements which is still on the table,"
she said.


Solana and Larijani held several rounds of discussions last year
which failed to find a solution to the crisis. They last met
face-to-face for informal talks on the sidelines of the Munich
security conference on February 11.


It remains to be seen what result can come out of Wednesday's
meeting, given Iran's insistence on enriching uranium and the EU
position that Tehran must freeze the process before full
negotiations can begin.


Solana declined to comment when asked what could be expected from
the meeting given Iran had already taken a hard line.


Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said on
Sunday that "halting uranium enrichment is definitely deleted
from the literature of Iran's nuclear activities."


Wednesday's meeting in Turkey will come half way through a 60-day
UN deadline for Iran to cease its enrichment activities with the
threat of further Security Council sanctions.


The EU foreign ministers also agreed in principle to apply a
second UN resolution against Iran, which was passed last month
and introduces fresh sanctions against Tehran if it fails to
suspend its uranium enrichment.


The latter resolution, whose details EU ministers will outline at
a later date, involves notably restriction on arms sales.


Endorsement of the first set of sanctions was delayed by an
argument between London and Madrid over how to word the measures
regarding the contested territory of Gibraltar.


The full list of the Iranian persona non grata subject to a
travel ban and assets freeze will be published in the official EU
gazette on Tuesday or Wednesday.

