

Washington's plan to build a missile defence shield in Europe
threatens global security, Russia's defence minister, Anatoly
Serdyukov, told US Defence Secretary Robert Gates at a meeting in
Moscow on Monday.


Serdyukov spoke after meeting Gates, who flew to the Russian
capital in hopes of defusing opposition to the controversial US
project.


"We believe the strategic missile defence system is a seriously
destabilizing factor that can have a significant influence on
regional and global security," Serdyukov said, speaking through
an official interpreter.


Gates, also scheduled to meet with President Vladimir Putin, put
a positive spin on strained Russian-US relations, telling
Serdyukov: "I look forward to working with you... to see how we
can more positively develop our military-to-military
relationship."


However, there was little sign of progress in softening Moscow's
opposition to the missile defence plan.


The Pentagon wants to station 10 interceptor missiles in Poland
and a targeting radar in the Czech Republic, countries that lie
close to Russian territory and during the Cold War were under
Moscow's control.


Russia, increasingly emboldened by new oil wealth, fiercely
opposes the plans, regarding them as encroaching into Moscow's
traditional sphere of influence.


The missile defence issue has threatened to divide Washington's
traditional allies.


Germany has said Washington must work to ease Russian concerns,
while the Czech Republic and Poland have asserted that Moscow has
no right to interfere.


Ahead of Gates's visit, the United States has assembled a package
of incentives aimed at allaying Russian concerns, said officials
travelling with the defence secretary.


These incentives, already presented last week, include an offer
to share missile warning data and cooperate in developing and
testing missile defence technology with the Russians.


"We outlined a series of areas where we might be able to
cooperate with Russia and this involves both sharing of
information and potentially of technology," said a senior
administration official.


"It includes things like sharing sensor data for early warning,
common research and development, testing of various components of
systems," said the official, briefing reporters aboard his plane.


The United States insists that existing defences need to be
extended to protect against attack from "rogue states" such as
Iran and North Korea and says its missile shield plans are not
directed against Russia.


But Russia has maintained its opposition and First Deputy Prime
Minister Sergei Ivanov said last week that Russia was not
interested in cooperating on the US plans.


Officials travelling with Gates said that while they believed
cooperation on missile defense was in both countries' interest,
Russia would not have a veto on the issue.


On Monday Russia's Vedomosti business daily stressed that Moscow
was not interested in cooperation on the plans.


What Moscow really wants is to begin negotiating new agreements
on limiting strategic weapons, including a renewal of the START 1
treaty that entered into force in 1994 and has a 15-year
duration.


"Discussions on this theme are needed by Russia due to the
increasing lag of its strategic forces behind America's and
because this is the only international problem where Moscow can
look like an equal partner of Washington," Vedomosti said,
quoting a Russian analyst.


After his meetings, Gates will travel to Warsaw to confer with
Polish leaders and also stop in Berlin to touch base with German
leaders.

