

Palestinian interior minister Hani al-Qawasmeh submitted his
resignation on Monday amid strong disagreements over a flagship
security plan in the first major jolt to the new unity
government.


But prime minister Ismail Haniya refused to accept it and
Qawasmeh, a previously unknown independent, will continue to
attend cabinet meetings until the matter is resolved and
president Mahmud Abbas returns from abroad.


"He submitted his resignation to the prime minister but the
latter refused and asked him to remain in his post," government
spokesman Ghazi Hamad told reporters in Gaza City.


Hamad linked Qawasmeh's decision to the "professional situation
within the interior ministry and the obstacles he is facing," but
declined to elaborate.


An interior ministry spokesman said Qawasmeh's desire to resign
was connected to difficulties he encountered in trying to
implement a new security plan -- the first major decision
approved by the fledgling government.


Qawasmeh was totally unknown in the fractious world of
Palestinian politics before joining the unity government when it
took office on March 17, the first cabinet to unite the Islamist
Hamas party and its secular rival Fatah.


His nomination to one of the most important portfolios in the
cabinet and one controlling the security services was the subject
of drawn-out negotiations between Hamas, headed by Haniya, and
Fatah, which is led by Abbas.


Interior ministry spokesman Khaled Abu Hillal told AFP that
Qawasmeh's wish to quit was based on difficulties in implementing
the plan to battle a lack of security in the Palestinian
territories which are awash with guns.


"There are challenges in implementing the security plan and the
minister was expecting to lay down certain conditions,
particularly on forming a united internal security force," said
Abu Hillal.


The united service would include pro-Fatah security operatives
and members of a controversial Executive Force, which was created
by Qawasmeh's Hamas predecessor in an effort to counter Fatah
dominance of the security agencies.


"Sharing out prerogatives between different security service
chiefs and between (overall security chief) Rashid Abu Shbak and
the minister in particular pushed him towards resigning," said
one ministry insider.


The source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Abbas-
backed Shbak had been reluctant to implement orders from the
minister to whom he reports.


Despite repeated promises from Palestinian leaders, the security
services have been incapable of imposing law and order in an
increasingly chaotic Gaza Strip and, to a lesser extent, in the
occupied West Bank.


Improving security and taking steps against militants determined
to launch attacks on Israel are key conditions levelled by the
Jewish state on making progress in the stalled Middle East peace
process.


The Palestinian government took office following a power-sharing
deal brokered in February that sought to end months of deadly
factional fighting between Hamas and Fatah, and also in a bid to
end crippling Western sanctions.


In its first major cabinet decision, the Palestinian government
on April 14 voted to implement a security plan that was hailed as
an attempt to restore order and unify diverse security forces.


The plan foresaw the formation of a national security council --
grouping long- time rivals Abbas and Haniya with the finance,
foreign, interior and justice ministers -- that brought all
security forces under one umbrella.


Hamad said on Monday that Qawasmeh would continue to attend
cabinet meetings "until his resignation was defined" after Abbas
returns from a foreign tour designed to cement international
support for the Palestinian administration.

