

EU foreign ministers on Monday formally agreed to introduce
sanctions against Iran over its nuclear ambitions in line with a
UN Security Council resolution, a European Union spokeswoman
said.


European Union foreign ministers at a meeting here agreed on a
blacklist of people and organisations linked to Iran's nuclear
industry, based on UN Security Council sanctions passed in
December.


However, the EU's sanctions go further than UN resolution 1737,
adopted by the UN Security Council on December 23.


"The EU goes a little bit tougher than the UN sanctions," said
Cristina Gallach, spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana, without giving details. "We include more names," she
added.


The full list of the Iranian persona non grata subject to a
travel ban and assets freeze will be published in the official EU
gazette on Tuesday or Wednesday.


Foreign ministers also agreed in principle to apply a second UN
resolution against Iran, which was passed last month and
introduces fresh sanctions against Tehran if it fails to suspend
its uranium enrichment activities within 60 days.


The latter resolution, whose details EU ministers will outline at
a later date, involves notably restriction on arms sales.


Endorsement of the first set of sanctions was delayed by an
argument between London and Madrid over how to word the measures
regarding the contested territory of Gibraltar.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana confirmed here earlier
Monday that he would meet this week with Iran's top nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani in Turkey.


Iran on Sunday rejected Western calls for a suspension of its
sensitive nuclear activities.


The United States, which accuses Iran of seeking to make nuclear
weapons, has never ruled out the option of military action to
bring Tehran to heel. Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely
for generating energy.


Iran has shown no sign of yielding in the stand-off, saying that
its uranium enrichment operations have reached an industrial
level and announcing it wishes to install over 50,000 uranium
enriching centrifuges at a plant in Natanz.

