

Nicolas Sarkozy, who stormed Sunday into round two of the
presidential election, is a hyperactive rightwinger who believes
France is failing because it has ducked essential reforms -- and
that it is his destiny to see them through.


The 52-year-old son of an Hungarian immigrant has come to
dominate France's political scene in the last five years, during
which he served as interior minister (twice), finance minister
and, since November 2004, president of the ruling Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP).


With relentless energy, constant media exposure and a steady flow
of new laws, he has sought to impose himself as the natural
candidate to lead France into a "clean break" from a discredited
past.


Polls show that "Sarko", as he is known, has a popular touch --
many in France respond well to his plain-talking and "man of
action" persona -- but they also expose his biggest weakness:
more than other mainstream politicians he has polarised the
public. People either love him or hate him.


The man who set up the country's first official Islamic body and
argues for US- style positive discrimination to favour
disadvantaged immigrants is thus reviled on the political left
and in the poor "banlieus" (suburbs) for his hard line on law and
order.


Much-reported remarks before the 2005 riots, when he described
delinquents as "racaille" or rabble, convinced many that he is a
more presentable version of far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen,
and his biggest handicap is the fear that as president he will
divide rather than unite the nation.


Born in January 1955, Sarkozy was brought up in the affluent
Paris suburb of Neuilly where he served as mayor from 1983 to
2002. He studied law and -- unlike most of France's ruling class
-- avoided the elite National Administration School (ENA).


His political career began in the 1970s as a supporter of future
president Jacques Chirac, with whom his career became closely
entangled. Chirac initially saw him as a possible heir to the
Gaullist mantle, but the two fell out after Sarkozy's support for
a rival in the 1995 election.


Sarkozy served as budget minister from 1993 to 1995, and was
later  secretary- general of the RPR party, precursor of the UMP.
In 1999 he led the RPR to a disastrous defeat in European
elections.


With Chirac's reelection in 2002 Sarkozy was overlooked for the
post of prime minister and instead took over at the interior
ministry, where he began his hectic progress towards the 2007
presidential vote.


Anxious to break with what he sees as an outdated state-centred
economic system, Sarkozy urges the need for France to adapt to
globalisation via reforms that he says are now commonplace in the
so-called "Anglo-Saxon world".


He has called for looser labour laws to bring down unemployment,
the sell-off of public housing, cuts in the number of civil
servants and private investment in the university system. His
support for positive discrimination is highly controversial in a
land wedded to the principal of equality.


On Europe Sarkozy has called for a slimmed down mini-constitution
to replace the text that was rejected by French voters in a 2005
referendum, and he opposes Turkish entry to the European Union.


He wants to improve links with the United States, saying in a
recent book that he "feels much closer to American society than
to many others" -- leading the opposition Socialist party to
issue a diatribe describing him as an "American neo-con with a
French passport."


Twice married, Sarkozy has three children -- the third by his
current wife Cecilia with whom his stormy relationship has
received widespread coverage in the gossip magazines.


Short of stature, dark of hair and burning with ambition, Sarkozy
has been called a latterday Bonaparte, bent on transforming the
country by authority and willpower.


Opposing him across the divide is Socialist candidate Segolene
Royal, whose ability to harness popular fervour behind a dream of
renaissance has evoked comparison with another national hero:
Joan of Arc.

