

France gave itself a pat on the back on Monday after high voter
turnout and the poor showing of far-right leader Jean-Marie Le
Pen turned round one of the presidential election into an
antidote to the 2002 poll upset that shocked the nation.


Five years ago, France woke up to a political earthquake when Le
Pen won enough votes to move into the runoff against Jacques
Chirac, propelled by a  record abstention rate and a splintering
of the vote on the left.


For the first time since 1969, the left was absent from the
second round after Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin scored a
humiliating 16.18 percent of the vote, behind Le Pen.


But France breathed a collective sigh of relief after Socialist
Segolene Royal won a spot in the May 6 runoff against rightwinger
Nicolas Sarkozy, capping weeks of campaigning that had been
haunted by the "cataclysm" of 2002.


"The affront of April 21, 2002 has been erased," commented the
left-leaning newspaper Liberation on Monday.


"The memory of that episode was enough to prevent a repeat," said
the right- leaning Figaro newspaper.


Jean-Marie Colombani, editor-in-chief of Le Monde newspaper, said
the mass turnout amounted to a "democratic awakening" that
reflected a national desire to "wipe out the memory" of the first
round vote five years ago.


Royal, the 53-year-old former adviser to president Francois
Mitterrand, had called on voters on the left to cast a "useful
vote" for her, instead of squandering it on one of the six
candidates of the hard-left.


Fears of a repeat of the 2002 shock success by the far-right
jolted many voters out of their apathy, notably the youth and
residents of the high-immigrant suburbs who came out en masse to
vote.


The result was a turnout of 84 percent, the highest participation
rate since the 1965 election won by Charles de Gaulle.


Stephane Rozes of the CSA polling institute said the high turnout
was a sign that "the country wanted to get back control of its
future."


Rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy took the first place in voting on
Sunday with nearly 32 percent and Royal, who wants to become
France's first woman president, garnered nearly 26 percent.


Le Pen, who had predicted a "tsunami" to carry him to victory,
won less than 11 percent, the lowest score of his five election
campaigns.


The candidates of the radical left also paid a heavy price as
voters chose to bury the ghost of 2002, with a combined showing
of nine percent, well below the 14 percent of votes they took in
the last election.


"The hammering of the message over the useful vote was very
efficient," commented Green candidate Dominique Voynet, who
scored a dismal 1.57 percent of the vote.


Interest in the election that is set to usher in a new generation
of leaders after 12 years of rule under Jacques Chirac was
intense.


For months political chat shows and prime-time debates have
dominated the airwaves, as polls showed the election was French
people's number one topic of conversation.


Some 44.5 million voters had registered to cast a ballot, a jump
of 7.5 percent from 2002.


The poor showing by Le Pen was as much due to the high turnout as
it was to Sarkozy's strategy of courting his voters, noted
political scientist Jean-Yves Camus.


"It payed off," said Camus.


Le Pen did not hide his bitterness at losing one million votes
from 2002, denouncing the "blindness of the French" and railing
that he had not suffered defeat but rather "an absence of
victory."

