

British Airways said Monday that it has approached several
private equity groups about a potential consortium takeover of
Spanish airline Iberia, in which it already owns a ten percent
stake.


"British Airways is considering how to use its 10 percent holding
in Iberia following Iberia's announcement that it has received a
bid approach," BA said in a statement which did not exclude
selling the stake.


"As part of this process, the airline has approached a number of
private equity companies about making a consortium offer for
Iberia."


However, BA has ruled out an independent bid for the Spanish flag
carrier.


Iberia had received a takeover approach last month from US
investment fund Texas Pacific Group (TPG), which said it planned
to launch a bid at 3.60 euros per share or 3.4 billion euros (4.6
billion dollars) in total. But Iberia has not yet issued an
official response.


BA, which did not give the names of any potential private equity
partners, added Monday that any consortium bid would not involve
further capital investment on its part.


As well as a private equity partner, the consortium was likely to
include one or more Spanish partners, the airline added.


A key condition of any deal for the Iberia board was understood
to be that any takeover would be done with a Spanish partner.


"BA has not made a final decision about the future of its
shareholding in Iberia and continues to examine numerous options
including full disposal," the British airline added in the
statement.


Iberia has faced speculation over its future after the United
States and European Union signed an "open skies" agreement --
which industry experts argue could drive consolidation of the
European airline industry.


In early afternoon trading on Monday, BA's share price rose 0.19
percent to 515 pence, while the FTSE 100 index eased 0.05 percent
to 6,483.50 points.


Iberia stock sank 0.51 percent to 3.94 euros, while Madrid's Ibex
35 index slid 0.65 percent to 14,983.40 points.


There has been persistent speculation that Lufthansa was
interested in buying Iberia. However, both companies have brushed
off rumours of a tie-up.


Lufthansa chief executive Wolfgang Mayrhuber and Fernando Conte,
his counterpart at Iberia, had said last week that they were not
in takeover talks.


Mayrhuber said that while Iberia might be an interesting partner
for Lufthansa, given its strong network of flights to central and
south America, its current asking price was too high.


"Speculative prices can't be financed by us," Mayrhuber had said,
referring to Iberia's market value which has soared to about 3.7
billion euros (five billion dollars) amid persistent speculation
it might be acquired by Lufthansa or BA.

