

The White House said Monday that it was "deeply troubled" by
deadly clashes and alleged irregularities that afflicted
Nigeria's elections and urged all sides to refrain from violence.


"We are deeply troubled by what we saw over the weekend,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters as
European Union observers challenged the credibility of the vote.


"We had urged free and fair elections, and I'm not sure that is
exactly what the people of Nigeria got. We look forward to
getting more information as the observers report," said Johndroe.


"We would hope all sides would refrain from any violence as they
try to resolve their issues," he added, as early results showed
ruling party candidate Umar Yar'Adua leading his presidential
rivals amid unrest that left 200 dead.


Amid mounting opposition calls for the cancellation of state,
parliamentary and presidential elections held April 14 and 21,
chief EU observer Max van den Berg said the polls had "fallen far
short" of basic international standards.


"The elections have not lived up to the hopes and expectations of
the Nigerian people, for the process cannot be considered to be
credible," he said.


Van den Berg's team said at least 200 people were killed in
"unacceptable" election-related violence during the two polls,
with police and some candidates among the victims.


"The continuing and widespread use of thugs by a number of
political parties created a significant degree of fear and
intimidation," the team said in its report.


Official election results were expected to be announced later
Monday, with early returns showing Yar'Adua leading his two main
rivals in most southern states and in parts of the northwest and
central north.


The mild-mannered 55-year-old who is governor of one of the
country's northern states is backed by President Olusegun
Obasanjo and was the pre-poll favorite.


The main opposition candidates, Vice President Atiku Abubakar,
Obasanjo's former friend-turned-foe, and onetime military ruler
Muhammadu Buhari, both criticized the poll as unfair and
undemocratic.

