

Once the dominant force in the game, Stephen Hendry has not won a
ranking event in over three years, but he has high hopes of
ending that barren run at the World Championships.


The Scot, a seven-times former winner of the world title, opens
his campaign on Tuesday with a game against newcomer Dave
Gilbert. He is still ranked world No.1 but is likely to lose that
at Sheffield.


Hendry though says it is winning titles that matters most to him.


"Being world champion is more important to me than being number
one in the world," he said.


"I hope that if my record of winning the title seven times is
beaten, it's beaten by me.


"The number one ranking proves you are perhaps the most
consistent player over one or two seasons.


"But I was number one for eight years in the 1990s and it doesn't
hold the same special feeling as being world champion.


"Winning any competition these days is so special but to be world
champion again would be my greatest ever achievement.


"This year's world title could be won by anyone from a bunch of
four or five players, and I believe I'm one of them."


Hendry won his first world title at the age of 21 in 1990 and
grabbed a record seventh in 1999.


But his last appearance in the final was in 2002 and he lost 10-9
on a re- spotted black to Nigel Bond in the first round 12 months
ago.


Hendry will start hot favourite against the largely untested
Gilbert, but he insists that he will be taking nothing for
granted.


"My practice regime is the same in time and length as that for
any other tournament but I think when you are approaching the
World Championship you unconsciously put a little bit more effort
into your practice," he said.


"You concentrate a little bit harder because you know the
tournament coming up is the big one.


"At the moment I'm practising on my own. I used to play against
people a lot but at this point of time it's more beneficial to me
to play on my own. It makes me concentrate better."


"If Hendry beats Gilbert, he faces Ali Carter or Andy Hicks for a
quarter-final place. Peter Ebdon would be his most likely last-
eight opponent with Ken Doherty, Matthew Stevens and Shaun Murphy
among those he could meet in the semis.

