

World oil prices firmed on Monday as concerns lingered over crude
production in Nigeria, the world's sixth biggest exporter of oil,
following disputed elections in the country.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
gained 83 cents to 67.32 dollars per barrel in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, rose 40 cents to 64.51 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


"Crude futures were higher this morning, with investors
concentrating on Nigeria's elections held over the weekend," said
analyst Michael Davies at the Sucden brokerage in London.


"There were some local civil disturbances, with reports of
fighting, but oil production has not been affected so far.


"However, international and local observers said these elections
were compromised by ballot stuffing, lack of voting papers and
outbreaks of violence, which could mean further violence if the
election results are disrupted."


Ruling party candidate Umar Yar'Adua was on course to win the
Nigerian presidency Monday, according to early results from the
weekend election.


Umar Yar'Adua was leading his two leading opposition rivals in
most southern states and in parts of the northwest and central
north, according to partial results cited by local newspapers and
websites.


As the national electoral commission prepared to issue the
official count in the race to take over from President Olusegun
Obasanjo, opposition leaders demanded a re-run of Saturday's
chaotic poll which foreign monitors said failed to meet
international standards.


Results of the poll were expected later Monday.


Meanwhile, further supply fears were stoked in the Middle East by
Iran's rejection on Sunday of Western demands that the country
suspend its uranium enrichment programme, which is a long-running
source of tension.


The latest development in the standoff has re-ignited fears that
Iran could use its status as the Middle East's second-largest oil
producer as leverage in the debate.


Traders were also awaiting US stockpile data due this Wednesday,
with analysts seeking confirmation that a recent pick-up in
refinery production has translated into rising US gasoline or
petrol reserves.

