

Umaru Yar'Adua, who was proclaimed winner of the Nigerian
presidential election on Monday, is governor of the strict Muslim
state of Katsina and the personal choice of outgoing leader
Olusegun Obasanjo.


But doubts about the health of the 55-year-old Yar'Adua have
added to the controversy over the election which has been
fiercely criticised by the Nigerian opposition and election
monitors.


In early March, as the presidential campaign was gathering pace,
Yar'Adua had to be flown to Germany for emergency medical
treatment.


Many Nigerians however are concerned about stories of his health.


Yet Yar'Adua challenges those who bring up the subject to 12
straight sets of squash.


Quiet, discreet, modest and honest are the words used time and
again to describe Yar'Adua, qualities not widely used to describe
the average Nigerian politician. The campaign posters of the
father of six boast of "honesty, integrity, humility and
courage".


He told AFP in a recent interview that he did not expect a
"walkover" victory in the election despite his heavyweight
backing from President Obasanjo.


Yar'Adua promised to fight corruption, a major issue in a country
regularly ranked among the most corrupt on the planet by global
watchdog Transparency International.


"If I am elected I will immediately put in place a mechanism to
ensure total transparency and the rule of law", he said.


Yar'Adua has a track record of financial prudence, public service
and accountability as he is among the few governors recently
absolved of corruption by the country's anti-graft agency. On
being elected governor of Katsina in 1999, Yar'Adua immediately
made public his assets.


Katsina, one of 12 northern Nigerian states to apply Islamic
Sharia law, first made world headlines when an Islamic court
there sentenced an unmarried mother, Amina Lawal, to death by
stoning in 2002.


Amid an international outcry, the case was later thrown out by a
higher court.


Yar'Adua refused to interfere in the case and said in the
interview with AFP that if elected president he would maintain a
policy of non-intervention in any similar cases.


Nigeria's opposition regularly raises the question of his health
and also asks why Obasanjo, knowing full well of Yar'Adua's
problems, selected him as presidential candidate.


Newspaper columnists have questioned whether Obasanjo is using
Yar'Adua's candidacy to keep a grip on power. Last year the
president failed to obtain a constitutional change allowing him
to run for a third term.


Until he emerged victorious in the ruling Peoples Democratic
Party primaries, Yar'Adua had virtually no public profile and was
known only as the younger brother of the late politician Shehu
Musa Yar'Adua, a retired general.


Yar'Adua senior was Obasanjo's deputy and confidant when he was
military head of state between 1976 and 1979.


Both men later went to prison under Sani Abacha. Yar'Adua senior
died in detention.


"Obasanjo appreciates loyalty. General Yar'Adua did not
disappoint him as his deputy," political commentator Gbenga Aliu
told AFP. Obasanjo's support for the governor of Katsina is a
pay-back for the loyalty shown by his elder brother, Aliu said.

