

Some seven million middle-ground voters hold the key to deciding
who will be France's next president as the election Monday headed
for a basic right-left run-off in less than two weeks.


No sooner had rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist rival
Segolene Royal topped the first round of voting on Sunday then
they set their sights on the supporters of centrist Francois
Bayrou whose votes are now up for grabs.


Bayrou, a 55-year-old former education miniser, won nearly 19
percent in the first round of voting, taking third spot but
knocked out of the May 6 showdon.


After entering the race as a fringe candidate, Bayrou shot up in
the polls as he campaigned on a platform that rejected the
traditional left-right divide and called for a unity government
made up of moderates from both camps.


"Bayrou has a key role even if he doesn't own those votes," said
analyst Thierry Vedel of the CEVIPOF research institute, who said
both Royal and Sarkozy would court him and his voters in the
runup to the decider.


A former member of Bayrou's Union for French Democracy (UDF)
party who is backing Sarkozy held out the prospect on Monday of
plum ministerial posts for UDF members.


"If Nicolas Sarkozy is the president of the republic, I would
personally find it necessary, indispensable and fortuitous that
UDF members be massively represented in the government," said
Employment Minister Jean-Louis Borloo in a radio interview.


Bayrou was to hold a series of meetings with party members before
an address planned for Wednesday on the way forward, his campaign
manager said.


Bayrou's party has in the past aligned itself with Sarkozy's
governing Union for a Popular Movement, but the candidate veered
to the left during the campaign, attacking Sarkozy as a power-
hungry politician unable to unite the nation.


Sarkozy's lieutenant Brice Hortefeux said the frontrunner would
not entertain "backroom deals" with Bayrou, but added that "the
door is not closed" to negotiations.


Socialist party leader Francois Hollande, who is also Royal's
partner, rejected suggestion of a deal with Bayrou, saying it
"would not be respectful" to the voters.


"I cannot imagine that his voters will now choose Nicolas
Sarkozy," said Hollande in a radio interview.


Bayrou himself appeared to rule out siding with either of the
winning candidates, saying late Sunday that he would never
"retreat" from his principled position of rejecting the left and
the right.


"He has a very mixed electorate," said pollster Bruno Jeanbart of
the private polling firm Opinion Way.


"These are voters who feel that it is time to break out of the
partisan, ideological debate and find pragmatic solutions" to
France's problems, said Jeanbart.


Royal, 53, who wants to become France's first woman president,
can expect to take a slightly bigger share of Bayrou's voters
than Sarkozy, 52, the tough- talking former interior minister,
said Jeanbart.


Current polling figures show 41 percent of Bayrou's electorate
will back Royal compared to 35 percent for Sarkozy, but 24
percent say they support neither, he added.

