

The families of three men who disappeared mysteriously from a
yacht found drifting off the northeast Australian coast refused
Monday to give up hope of finding them alive.


The official search for the sailors was called off on Sunday,
with police saying the men could not have survived in the water
for so long, but their wives and children launched their own
search on Monday.


Police began an extensive air and sea search for the men last
Thursday after the catamaran was found drifting near the Great
Barrier Reef with engine and computers running and a table laid
for a meal but no one aboard.


The three men, skipper Derek Batten, 56, and brothers Peter and
James Tunstead, aged 69 and 63, have been described by their
families as experienced and cautious sailors whose disappearance
is incomprehensible.


Peter Tunstead's daughter, Donna, said her father was meticulous
about safety at sea and she believed he was still alive.


"There is not an 'i' he doesn't dot or a 't' he doesn't cross --
everything was planned," she told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.


"I just don't know what's happened. I know though, in my heart
and in my soul, and so does my whole family, they are fine and
they are safe," she said.


"My dad is going to do everything in his power to come home to my
mum and to us girls. My dad loves my mum so much."


James Tunstead's son, Shane, said three charter boats would
Monday begin a search of islands in the area in the hope the men
could have swum to safety.


"That's our hope. That's where we're going to concentrate today,"
he said, adding he was disappointed that the official search had
been called off.


"Maybe they've all got knocked over by the boom, or something
happened at the back of the boat when they were fishing because
we know they were fishing at the time by video footage we've seen
from the Townsville police," he said.


Theories abound on the fate of the men -- from one or more
falling overboard and the others going to the rescue, to an
attack by pirates.


But police detective inspector Warren Webber said that despite
extensive investigations the case remained a mystery.


"We can all come up with various hypotheses and theories as to
what may have happened," he said.


"But at this stage our investigations concentrate on just
determining exactly what facts we have.


"We will obviously draw some conclusions from that information
and that information will ultimately be provided to the coroner."


Forensic experts who searched the "Kaz II" after it was towed
into port on Saturday confirmed that it had a badly torn sail but
found no clues as to what had happened to the men.


"There is nothing to indicate other people were involved or there
may have been some kind of crime," Webber said.


It was also unlikely they became separated from the yacht while
swimming, Webber said, dismissing reports that clothes were found
neatly folded at the stern.


Batten had bought "Kaz II" in eastern Australia's Queensland
state shortly before he and his friends set off on April 15 to
sail the vessel around the north coast of Australia to their
homes in Western Australia.


Media in Australia have likened the puzzling case to the "Mary
Celeste," the ghost ship found drifting in the Atlantic in 1872
with no sign of the 10 passengers and crew -- one of maritime
history's most enduring mysteries.

