

Singapore Telecommunications is eyeing investment opportunities
in central Asia and the Middle East, but its business will
primarily be focused in Asia, its new chief executive said
Monday.


Chua Sock Koong, who took over from Lee Hsien Yang this month as
head of Southeast Asia's biggest phone company, said however that
SingTel needed time to understand the new markets well.


"As strategic investors, you need to know these places a lot
better before you can make an investment," she said in her first
news briefing as CEO.


"Financial investors are somewhat different. You know it's a
portfolio approach -- you don't invest in such large amounts so
you can get in and out easily.


"But as strategic telco operators, it requires us to understand
the business risks, the country risks, how to operate in the
different countries."


While it familiarises itself with new markets, Chua said SingTel
would continue to focus mainly on Asia, where it has a wide
footprint from India to Australia.


She said SingTel was looking at the emerging Southeast Asian
nation of Vietnam, and was positioning in case the government
there liberalised the telecom sector.


"We have been very active in building up relations with the
operators, with the necessary government agencies... What we have
done is we have positioned ourselves. Regardless of when the
timing (of the liberalisation) is, we will be ready to respond,"
she said.


Chua, a veteran at SingTel, is the company's first female CEO.
She took over from Lee, the brother of Prime Minister Lee Hsien
Loong and a son of Singapore founding father Lee Kuan Yew.


Apart from being the market leader in the Singapore home market,
SingTel has a wholly owned subsidiary in Australia called SingTel
Optus.


It also owns substantial stakes in mobile phone operators in
Indonesia, India, the Philippines, Thailand and Bangladesh.


The company reported a 12.6 percent rise in net profit for the
third quarter to December to 994 million Singapore dollars (658
million US).


For the nine months to December, net profit climbed 12.4 percent
to 2.79 billion dollars.


Chua said SingTel was aiming to deliver double-digit growth in
underlying earnings in the next five years by maximising its
existing businesses, moving up the value chain and expanding
geographically.


SingTel shares were unchanged at 3.42 dollars Monday.

