

Western business leaders steered clear of heavily criticising
Moscow here on Monday during a showcase event for Russian
enterprises which is being clouded by increased malaise between
the Kremlin and the European Union.


The 10th annual Russian Economic Forum has been hit by the
boycott of top Moscow officials and Russian business leaders.


Russian newspaper Kommersant has said the sudden decision to
ignore the event was "an order from above."


Mistrust and a lack of respect in the relations between the
European Union and Russia are at their worst since the Cold War,
EU trade commissioner Peter Mandelson warned Friday.


Leading businessmen including an executive from state-controlled
gas giant Gazprom and an economic adviser to President Vladimir
Putin are among those who cancelled their forum attendance at the
11th hour.


Barclays Capital chairman Hans-Joerg Rudloff told the London-
based forum Monday that his call-up to the podium as a last-
minute replacement provided impartiality to proceedings.


"It gives me the opportunity not to be called a poodle of the
Russian presidential Russian administration," Rudloff said on the
second day of the gathering, which ends Tuesday.


He went on to speak highly of Russia's economic progress since
the end of the Cold War in the early 1990s, while noting the need
for further change.


"Russia is integrating in our world, trying to engage, trying to
improve the many things that still have to improve. Clearly not
just looking at natural resources but trying and wanting to
industrialise," Rudloff told delegates.


According to Roger Munnings, forum chairman and president of the
Russian arm of global finance group KPMG, Russia was earning
revenues totalling 500 million dollars (369 million euros) a day
from oil exports.


"The rest of the world needs Russia for hydrocarbons and energy
supply," Munnings said.


The EU's reliance on Russian energy was highlighted late last
year when Ukraine refused to pay inflated prices for Russian gas.


Moscow retaliated by briefly halting supplies to Ukraine, which
led to a knock- on disruption of supplies across Western Europe.


Among Russian business executives boycotting this year's forum
are Alexander Medvedev, deputy chairman of Gazprom, and the
president of oil company Rosneft, Sergei Bogdanchikov.


Moscow last week expressed fury after Russian businessman Boris
Berezovsky, who was granted political asylum in Britain in 2003,
called for the overthrow of Putin.


Ties between London and Moscow have been strained since the
assassination by radioactive poisoning of former Russian spy
Alexander Litvinenko in November.


His associates accused Moscow of poisoning Litvinenko because of
his opposition to Putin, a claim rejected by the Kremlin.


Russia-EU relations are being hampered also by Moscow's increased
investment in leading Western companies at a time when the
Kremlin is accused of curtailing their progress into Russia.


Analysts believe that the Russian state mounted a campaign to
force Anglo-Dutch energy giant Royal Dutch Shell to recently
relinquish its grip on the giant Sakhalin-2 energy project, using
a series of tough environmental checks as a negotiating weapon.


On the opposite fence, the Russian state last month bought a 5.02
percent stake in European aerospace giant EADS via Vneshtorgbank
(VTB), sparking fears that the oil-rich country was seeking to
exert control over the company, whose principal unit, aircraft
manufacturer Airbus, is grappling with financial woes.


"Russia, the Russian people need to communicate with the rest of
the world to tell the success story, to tell of the many good
things that are happening against the background of difficult
political relationships," Munnings said Monday.

