

A feng shui master who last week claimed the entire four-billion-
dollar estate of the late Hong Kong tycoon Nina Wang has filed
legal papers, his first formal step towards taking possession of
her fortune.


Chan Chun Chuen's lawyers filed papers in the city's High Court
over the weekend requesting that no court decision on her wealth
be made without their knowledge.


Chan, 48, announced on Friday he was the sole beneficiary of
Wang's wealth, estimated to be worth at least 4.2 billion US
dollars, according to a will she wrote in 2006.


Wang's brother and two younger sisters also filed papers last
week in the name of a charitable trust connected to Chinachem,
asking claimants to the estate to come forward.


They say the trust was named as the executor of a will that Wang
purportedly wrote in 2002, paving the way for a second
spectacular court fight over the wealth of the pigtailed and
mini-skirt-wearing mogul.


Wang, Asia's richest woman, died on April 4 at 69 with no heirs.


She built her late husband Teddy Wang's Chinachem into a real
estate empire after taking it over following his disappearance in
1990. He is believed to have been kidnapped and was declared dead
in 1999, although his body was never found.


Wang's father-in-law Wang Din-shin, now 96, sued to win control
of Teddy's assets in a bitter eight-year court battle that saw
the two sides trade accusations of adultery, sloth and naked
greed. She won in 2005.


Chan's claim last Friday sent shockwaves through the city and
there was widespread bafflement as to how the little-known feng
shui expert could have been awarded Wang's entire estate.


The story has gripped the public imagination, with rampant media
speculation about the relationship between the two.


Chan has been described as an expert in feng shui --
traditionally consulted in China to ensure health, wealth and
happiness. But local newspapers have interviewed well-known feng
shui masters who said they had never heard of him.


Even Wang's top aides and family know little about Chan, who is
believed to be a billionaire himself, lives in a luxury home and
studied medicine in Canada, reports said.


His lawyer Jonathan Midgely revealed that Chan, 48, is married
with three children and that he has business interests in
property and development. Chan had know Wang for "many years."


The Apple Daily newspaper, citing unnamed sources, said Chan had
gained Wang's trust as he had also believed that her late husband
Teddy was still alive, and that they repeatedly prayed together
at a temple for his return.

