

Campaigning for the runoff in East Timor's presidential election
began Monday with candidates Jose Ramos-Horta and Francisco
Gutteres vowing a peaceful poll.


"We are conducting a door-to door campaign in a peaceful way and
will not force people to choose Ramos-Horta," his spokesman
Dionisio Babo told AFP.


Neither Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, nor parliament
chief Gutteres won an absolute majority in the April 9 election,
prompting next month's runoff.


The presidential poll is the first since impoverished East Timor
won independence in 2002, following a bloody split from occupying
Indonesian forces.


Nobel Peace Prize winner Ramos-Horta campaigned Monday in a
district southeast of the capital Dili.


"We are using this method because there were many people who did
not have access to information from the radio and television (in
the first round)," his spokesman said of the door-to-door
campaign.


Gutteres, a former guerrilla fighter and candidate for the ruling
Fretilin party, spoke briefly to party faithful in Dili before
starting his door knock.


"We will not organise large mass rallies, so as to prevent
violence and brawls, and we will instead use the door-to-door
method to talk directly with the people," his spokesman told AFP.


The campaigning came amid reports of gunfire late Saturday
between 200 armed civilians and police west of the capital.


"We have identified them as an armed civilian group ... I myself
saw them use hand guns," said Liquica district police chief
Manuel Maria dos Santos.


Four people were arrested but nobody was injured in the fighting,
the Suara Timor Lorosae newspaper said.


The group, known as Colimau 2000, has been blamed for street
violence in the past, police also said.


Polling was peaceful and voter turnout high on April 9 and
Timorese are hoping the resulting stalemate will not plunge the
impoverished nation into more turmoil and bloodshed.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets for nearly a year
after gang violence left 37 people dead and 150,000 homeless.


The nation also saw bloodshed under Indonesian rule after 1974,
and an orgy of killing as it voted for independence in a UN-
sponsored referendum in 1999.


Ramos-Horta won 22 percent of the vote earlier this month while
Gutteres won 28 percent. The runoff for the largely ceremonial
post will be held on May 9.

