

Unfashionable Mwana Africa brought rare cheer to troubled
Zimbabwe by reaching the African Confederation Cup playoffs at
the weekend.


The mining company club from the northern town of Bindura
overwhelmed Etoile Filante of Burkina Faso 3-0 in Harare to book
a May showdown with Tout Puissant Mazembe Englebert of the
Democratic Republic of Congo.


It was another unexpected success for the 'Potato Boys', playing
in Africa for the first time, after a two-goal first-leg loss in
Ouagadougou two weeks ago.


After brushing aside Mundu of Zanzibar in the first qualifying
round, Mwana upset InterClube of Angola to raise the spirits of a
nation more accustomed to failure than success at international
level.


Setting aside their woes in a country beset by hyper inflation,
mass unemployment and political turmoil, a 5,000 Rufaro Stadium
crowd saw a four- striker gamble by Mwana coach Willard Khumalo
pay speedy dividends.


Chipo Tsodzo scored with a diving header and the teams were tied
on aggregate just before half-time when a seemingly harmless
Alisara Kondowe  drive caught goalkeeper Souleymane Bonao
napping.


Etoile launched a series of second half raids without making a
breakthrough and Webster Muronda atoned for earlier misses with a
powerful headed goal 14 minutes from full-time to seal success.


Mwana revelled on the lush, flat Rufaro surface, which is a far
cry from their bumpy home pitch 100 kilometres north of Harare
known as the 'potato field'.


At the other end of the continent, Al-Merreikh of Sudan were
equally impressive as they outclassed ASO Chlef of Algeria 3-0 to
comfortably    reverse a one-goal first-leg loss.


Nigerian Aydema Idahor ended the Omdurman stalemate after 31
minutes, Hiatham Tambal added a second goal before half-time and
another Sudan   striker, Faisal Ajab, put the outcome beyond
doubt with a late strike.


Perennial international campaigners Merreikh are guided by
veteran German coach Otto Pfister, the man in charge of ill-fated
debutants Togo at the 2006 World Cup in his homeland.


Another high-profile coach, Frenchman Patrice Neveu, had a more
anxious  time before Ismailia of Egypt held Zambian army club
Green Buffaloes 1-1 in Lusaka to squeeze through on aggregate by
the odd goal in five.


Sebastian Mwansa put Buffaloes ahead and prolific scorer Mohammed
Abougreisha levelled before the Zambian scorer turned villain by
having a tame penalty kick saved six minutes from full-time.


Dolphin of Nigeria had no spot kick problems, though, overcoming
Hassania Agadir 5-3 in a post-match shootout in Morocco after
each club won 1-0 at home.


Casting aside disastrous domestic form and the absence of ace
striker Victor Ezeji after a training accident, 2005 runners-up
Dolphin held out until midway through the second half when
Senegal-born Mamadou Diallo scored.


There was late scare for African newcomers Gaouafel Gafsa of
Tunisia before they drew 1-1 with Rwandan visitors ATRACO to
advance on away goals and book a showdown against Mamelodi
Sundowns of South Africa.


Ivorian Dao Bakari gave Gafsa a fifth-minute lead only for
Theoneste Nuhanimana to equalise with nine minutes left and
trigger a tense finish in    the south- west town.


Another Tunisian team, Club Sportif Sfaxien, left it late against
Issia Wazi of Ivory Coast with Blaise Kouassi scoring two minutes
into stoppage time against his compatriots to clinch the 2-0
victory that took them through.


Surprise packets Benfica Luanda of Angola coasted into the
playoffs after an early Manuel Gaspar goal helped them hold
Astres Douala in Cameroon and progress 4-1 on aggregate.

