

Senior European officials expressed relief Monday that far-right
leader Jean- Marie Le Pen had been knocked out of France's
presidential election race and praised voters for turning out in
big numbers.


"I am satisfied that the most radical groups, like Le Pen, were
clearly rejected, and that allows us to think that their
influence won't be felt in the second-round vote," said German
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier.


Le Pen, leader of the French National Front, came fourth in
Sunday's poll with 10.51 percent of votes, in stark contrast to
his showing in 2002 when he went head-to-head, unsuccessfully,
against President Jacques Chirac.


"Le Pen has fallen and that's good news for all democrats,"
agreed Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos, who like
Steinmeier was attending a meeting of EU foreign ministers in
Luxembourg.


Moratinos also praised the "the massive participation" of French
voters.


Turnout reached 84.6 percent, the highest for more than 40 years.


The European Commission picked up on the same themes, with
President Jose Manuel Barroso seeing the high number of voters as
"a sign of a vigorous democracy".


"We also welcome the fact that pro-European forces have scored so
well in the first round," one of his spokespeople said.


Praise for the turnout and relief at the failure of Le Pen, far
right champion for 35 years and regularly accused of promoting
xenophobia and anti-Semitism, were perhaps the easiest reactions
to give Monday.


The way ahead and how the duel between rightwinger Nicolas
Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal will play out on May 6 was
more difficult to predict.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, took top spot in the first
round with about 31 percent of the vote while Royal won some 26
percent in her bid to become France's first woman president.


The polls are being closely watched in the European Union,
because one of the new president's first jobs will be to tackle
the bloc's moribund constitution, which was rejected by French
voters almost two years ago.


In Rome, Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi urged Royal to
strike up an alliance with Francois Bayrou, the centrist leader
and potential king maker who came third with nearly 19 percent.


"It would bring an element of clarity and order to French
politics," the former European Commission chief said, according
to ANSA news agency.


"Bayrou's role will be decisive in making French politics more
European," he said, but added that it would be hard to predict
the winner without knowing "how Francois Bayrou's voters are
going to position themselves".


Interior Minister Giuliano Amato, also from the Italian centre-
left, agreed  and said that such an alliance would "be the most
intelligent approach".


Opposition leader Silvio Berlusconi voiced support for Sarkozy.


"If Sarkozy wins, his presidency will unite with that of (German
Chancellor) Angela Merkel to create a more Western and
Atlanticist Europe," he said, according to ANSA.


Elsewhere Socialist parties hailed Royal's campaign.


"She has silenced the doubters. The French people have made the
right choice by putting the left into the second round," said
Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, president of the Party of European
Socialists.


"All voters who reject conservatism must turn out for Segolene on
May 6."


In Germany, Social Democrats leader Kurt Beck said the French
party's enthusiasm for their candidate "created an outstanding
basis from which to seize victory in the final round in two
weeks' time."


"They organised a terrific and modern campaign with passion and
commitment," he said.

