

Bomb blasts killed six Afghan intelligence agents and two
policemen Monday, while the decapitated body another agent was
discovered in an attack claimed by the Taliban.


The six agents died in the eastern province of Laghman where a
similar blast on Sunday killed two other intelligence operatives,
a bodyguard and a driver. The province is about 120 kilometres
(75 miles) from Kabul.


"Six intelligence officers were killed in the blast and another
four were wounded," provincial police chief General Asil
Totakhail told AFP.


Totakhail blamed the attack on the "enemies of Afghanistan," a
term used by Afghan authorities to refer to fighters for the
Taliban, driven from government in 2001 in an invasion by a US-
led coalition.


Hours earlier a roadside bomb struck a police patrol in the
southeastern province of Zabul, killing two policemen and
wounding five, said Mohammad Wazir, chief of the district of
Shamulzayi on the border with Pakistan.


A spokesman for the Taliban, Yousuf Ahmadi, said the extremist
movement had carried out the attack, and was also behind the
beheading of an intelligence agent from the city of Ghazni, about
150 kilometres southwest of the capital.


The agent was picked up from his home late Sunday for a dinner,
Ghazni province deputy police chief Mohammad Zaman said. "This
morning his decapitated body and head were found," he said.


In the neighbouring province of Uruzgan police said they had
surrounded a reported meeting of about 200 Taliban that was
believed to include regional leaders of the movement.


"There has been no fighting so far but they are totally
surrounded," provincial police chief General Mohammad Qasim said.


The Taliban have steadily picked up their insurgency, which is
supported by foreign fighters and elements in Pakistan,
confronting its own spike in attacks by extremists.


Well over 4,000 people were killed in insurgency-linked unrest in
Afghanistan last year, more than four times the 2005 toll. Most
of the violence was in the south and east, areas bordering
Pakistan.


The insurgents on Saturday promised to focus more attention on
the relatively peaceful north.


On Monday the extremist movement issued a new statement said to
be from its fugitive leader, Mullah Mohammad Omar, that called
for "inactive" Taliban supporters to pick up arms and "rescue
their country from the invasion."


Ahmadi told AFP that Omar, the one-eyed Taliban supreme chief,
had on Monday again "called on Taliban and Muslim Afghan to
strengthen their attacks on the government and foreign soliders."


The message, similar to others issued by the movement, also said,
"Those who are or were with Taliban and are inactive (should)
become active and start their activity and rescue their country
from the invasion."


The Afghan security forces have been the target of scores of
bombings in the past months, with the Taliban insurgency relying
heavily on roadside blasts and suicide attacks in their campaign
against the Western-backed government.


A suicide blast in the southeastern city of Khost on Sunday
killed 10 people: two of the around 40 wounded died in hospital,
officials said Monday.

