

Three Australians sentenced to death for attempting to smuggle
heroin out of Indonesia filed an appeal on Monday against their
sentences, one of their lawyers said.


Three members of the "Bali Nine" have filed a review of their
cases arguing that Indonesia's Supreme Court erred in ordering
their execution, lawyer Erwin Siregar told AFP.


"We are making an exceptional legal move .... we are filing for a
case review in the Denpasar District Court without providing
fresh evidence," Siregar said.


Si Yi Chen, Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen and Matthew Norman were arrested
in a hotel room on the Indonesian resort island with a small
quantity of heroin in 2005, shortly after others were arrested at
Bali's airport.


The trio were found guilty of planning to courier narcotics into
Australia and sentenced to life in prison. An initial High Court
appeal reduced their sentences to 20 years but a Supreme Court
ruling later ordered their execution.


Another courier, Scott Rush, also had his sentence changed to
death by firing squad, while Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran
were sentenced to die for being the Bali Nine ringleaders.


Three others are serving prison sentences ranging from life to 20
years for their roles in the plot.


Siregar said fresh evidence was normally needed to allow case
reviews, but lawyers would argue that legal mistakes had been
made as the Supreme Court sentence handed to his clients was so
different to that of the other courts.


"We say that there is a mistake here, because usually a Supreme
Court verdict, based on jurisprudence, reinforces the verdict of
the district court or of the appeal court," he said.


The lawyer also said technical legalities aside, his three
clients were still young and faced the firing squad with no prior
criminal records.


He said the death penalty was also still being debated in
Indonesia, which could be another factor in the Supreme Court
allowing the case reviews.


The three have not joined a separate Constitutional Court
challenge to the country's death penalty by the three other "Bali
Nine" members on death row.


Those three argue their sentence runs contrary to Indonesia's
constitution, which guarantees the right to life. The court has
yet to make its decision.


The ruling to put the six to death has angered many in Australia,
who argue it is hypocritical as some of the Bali bombers had been
given lesser sentences.


The 2002 bombings on the resort island killed 202 people, 88 of
them Australian.


The Bali nine are among several Australians who have faced drugs
charges in Indonesia in recent years, including former beauty
student Schapelle Corby, who was convicted and jailed for
trafficking marijuana into Bali.

