

A proposal by the United States to build physical barriers
between warring communities in Iraq has highlighted the growing
number of walls and fences that have been springing up around the
world.


Some notable examples:


- Korea


The most heavily militarised border in the world is that drawn
between North and South Korea in 1953. Bristling with razor wire,
sensors, landmines and heavy weapons, the Demilitarized Zone
stretches for 250 kilometres (155 miles) along the full length of
the border.


- Israel-Palestinian territories


In June 2002, Israel began building a 650-kilometer (404-mile)
barrier edging the West Bank. It includes watch towers and
electronic surveillance, and Israel says it is aimed at
preventing infiltration by Palestinian guerrillas.


- India-Pakistan


India has built a security fence stretching for almost 1,000
kilometers (600 miles) along the "line of control" which divides
the contested region of Kashmir between it and Pakistan.


- China-North Korea


In October last year, China began building a barbed-wire fence
along part of its border with much poorer North Korea. Chinese
officials played down the move, saying it was part of normal
border precautions.


- United States-Mexico


In the same month, US President George W. Bush authorized the
construction of a fence along a third of his country's 3,200
kilometer (1,988 mile) border with Mexico, aimed at deterring
illegal immigrants. Some 100 kilometers (62 miles) of metal walls
are already in place at strategic points.


- Saudi Arabia-Iraq


Also in October 2006, Saudi Arabia announced plans to erect a
security barrier along its 900-kilometer (560-mile) border with
Iraq. The fence, to include thermal imaging devices, was aimed at
preventing the passage of terrorists, a Saudi interior ministry
official said.


- Saudi Arabia-Yemen


In 2004, reports emerged that Saudi Arabia was building a high-
tech barrier along part of its 1,800-kilometer (1,100-mile)
border with Yemen. The Saudi government said the obstacle was
made of sand, and was aimed at stopping smugglers.


- Morocco-Spain


Spain has built a chain-link fence to prevent would-be emigrants
to Europe from entering its tiny territory of Melilla on
Morocco's north African coast. In September 2005, Spain said it
was doubling the height of the structure.


- Cyprus


A 300-kilometre (187-mile) UN-patrolled buffer zone has divided
Greek and Turkish Cypriots since 1974. A wall built along part of
the line in the centre of the capital Nicosia was dismantled in
March this year.


- Northern Ireland


Iron, brick and steel separation "peace lines" still divide some
Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods in Belfast, Northern
Ireland. Many of the barriers have remained in place despite
recent moves towards peace.


Great walls of the past:


- Germany


For almost three decades the Cold War border between East and
West Germany was materialised by the Berlin Wall, a militarised
barrier some 160 kilometers (100 miles) long that entirely
separated the enclave of West Berlin from the rest of the city
and from East Germany as a whole. The wall was built in 1961 and
torn down in 1989, in a move that heralded the collapse of
Soviet-dominated communist regimes.


- China


The world's most famous barrier is the Great Wall of China. Work
on the 2,700-kilometre (1,680-mile) defensive structure started
in the 3rd century BC; today it serves only as a tourist
attraction.

