

Iraqi and US officials on Monday defended a decision to build a
three-mile (five-kilometre) wall around a flashpoint Sunni
district of Baghdad, as street demonstrations erupted to condemn
it.


Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has been drawn into the row,
telling reporters in Egypt he is opposed to the enclosure of
Adhamiyah, but in Baghdad the Iraqi military said the
construction of barriers would continue.


The new US ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, used his first press
conference since arriving in Baghdad last month to insist that
the wall was not intended to segregate the city's warring Sunni
and Shiite communities.


"I think it's important ... that one not lose sight of the threat
that is motivating some of the decisions that have been made,"
Crocker said.


"The intention in Adhamiyah is clearly not to segregate
communities nor to engage in a form of political or social
engineering," he continued.


"It's to try to identify where the faultlines are, where avenues
of attack lie and to set up the barriers literally to prevent
those attacks."


The spokesman for the Iraqi forces engaged alongside US troops in
enforcing the Baghdad security plan, Brigadier General Qassim
Atta, said that many other districts already had or would have
some form of barrier.


Some of these might be walls, but others ditches, sand-bags or
fences, he said, and accused the news media of inflating the size
of the five metre (16 feet) tall concrete barricade that US
troops are erecting around Adhamiyah.


"In fact the Adhamiyah security barrier has been exaggerated by
the media, and we anticipated there would be some reactions by
weak-minded people," he said, referring to criticism of the plan
by many Iraqi politicians.


Atta said Iraqi units involved in planning and building walls are
under Maliki's command and implied the prime minister had reacted
to false reports, saying: "He said he would not accept a 12 metre
high security barrier."


Asked about the wall on Sunday, Maliki said: "I am opposed to the
building of the wall and its construction is going to stop."


Nevertheless, Atta said nothing had changed: "We have begun
construction of these barriers in many Baghdad areas ... We will
continue to construct security barriers in Adhamiyah
neighbourhood."


The row over the Adhamiyah wall erupted last week when the US
military said paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division were
visiting Adhamiyah at night to build a wall out of six tonne
(12,000 pound) concrete blocks.


"The area the wall will protect is the largest predominantly-
Sunni neighbourhood in East Baghdad. Majority-Shiite
neighbourhoods surround it on three sides," a statement issued on
April 17 said.


"Sunnis inside the wall can take comfort knowing the added
security will prevent gangs of Shiite extremists from being able
to come into the area and target residents for extortion and
murder," it added.


"But the Shiite communities on the other side of the wall will
also benefit. When the wall is in place, Sunni terrorists will no
longer be able to use the neighbourhood as a staging point for
attacks against Shiites," it said.


Many local residents and politicians from both sides of the
sectarian divide oppose the wall, claiming it will harden
Baghdad's sectarian divisions, and on Monday several hundred
people held a noisy street protest in Adhamiyah.


US military spokesman Rear Admiral Mark Fox said any decision on
whether to continue with this and other security engineering
projects would rest with the Iraqi government, but left room open
for a rethink.


"The Iraqis are clearly in the lead on this. To the extent that
there's a need to modify, to take a different approach, the
Iraqis have the lead," he said at a joint news conference with
his Iraqi colleague Atta.


"And if there's a decision to modify here -- to the extent that
local concerns weren't properly addressed -- that's something
that we'll definitely take into account," he continued.


American forces began construction around Adhamiyah on April 10
and expect the works to last for a month.

