

Malaysian tycoon Tiong Hiew King Monday signed deals to merge
three publishing firms in Malaysia and Hong Kong, aimed at
creating the largest Chinese-language media group outside of
China.


The merger will combine Sin Chiew Media Corporation and Nanyang
Press Holdings, both listed in Malaysia, with Hong Kong-listed
Ming Pao Enterprise Corporation via a share swap arrangement.


"The merged entity will become the largest Chinese media company
outside of China," Sin Chew said at the signing.


Under the deal, Sin Chiew and Nanyang will de-listed from the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange and be replaced by Ming Pao, which
will have dual listing in Malaysia and Hong Kong.


Ming Pao's listing in Malaysia is targeted for February next
year.


The enlarged group will have a market capitalisation of
"significantly more than one billion ringgit (292.16 million
dollars)", officials said.


Its stable will include five major newspapers with a combined
daily circulation more than one million copies, 37 magazines and
three websites.


Media watchdogs have criticised the consolidation, saying
concentration of ownership under Tiong would curb competition and
threaten press freedom.


But Tiong, the majority shareholder in Sin Chew, Nanyang and Ming
Pao, appeared undeterred, saying at the signing that "the way
forward is to go from local to global and from print to
multimedia."


Sin Chew director Rita Sim said the merger would allow the group
to boost its presence in China and grow globally through mergers
and acquisitions or new products.


"We are keen to expand to new markets, such as Europe ... areas
where there are sizeable Chinese populations," Sim said, also
flagging the group's intentions to expand from print to
multimedia.


"As a group, we are very rich in content. The way going forward
is to digitalise it. Broadcast would be one of them," she added.


Sin Chew publishes Malaysia's largest circulated Chinese
newspaper, the Sin Chew Daily, while Nanyang produces the
country's oldest Chinese-language daily, Nanyang Siang Pau.


Ming Pao Group publications include the Ming Pao Daily News,
which is published in Hong Kong, Toronto, Vancouver, New York and
San Francisco.

