

A top Sudanese government official on Monday offered a two-month
halt in military operations in strife-torn Darfur to allow for
rebel groups to join the peace process.


"The government forces will not conduct military operations in
Darfur for the next two months," presidential adviser Majzub al-
Khalifa Ahmed said.


He said the period should be used by rebel groups which did not
endorse a May 2006 peace agreement to join negotiations aimed at
ending the four-year-old civil conflict and "catch up with the
peace march".


Khalifa was speaking at a ceremony to mark the launch of the
Darfur Transitional Regional Authority (DTRA), a body created as
part of the implementation of the moribund peace deal.


The agreement reached in May 2006 in Abuja was signed by the
government and only one of three negotiating rebel factions,
failing to make any impact. Rebel splinter groups have since
flourished and violence spiralled.


Observers have questioned the viability of such a peace agreement
and called for further international action, but Khalifa insisted
the signatories should press ahead with its implementation.


The Abuja signatories "are capable of implementing the agreement
and achieving peace in Darfur," the official said. "The
inauguration of the regional authority constitutes a new stage in
the history of the Sudan."


Khartoum "trusts that the authority will work hard towards
implementing the Abuja agreement by building villages, helping
IDPs (internally displaced people) return home and carrying out
development projects, building roads and providing electricity",
Ahmed said.


The ceremony was also attended by Minni Minnawi, who heads the
faction of the Sudan Liberation Movement which signed the Abuja
agreement and was consequently appointed as special presidential
adviser.


"The authority will as of today begin exercising all its
security, economic, political and humanitarian duties in addition
to extending the basic services to the people of Darfur," said
Minnawi, who is also DTRA chairman.


Violence has continued to rage in Darfur in recent weeks, with
tribal clashes flaring and violence between government forces and
rebels threatening to spill over into neighbouring countries.


African Union peacekeepers have also suffered their worst month
since being deployed in 2004, with eight casualties.


The international community is increasing the pressure on
Khartoum to accept a United Nations plan which would result in
the deployment of a robust UN peacekeeping force to prop up the
embattled African contingent.

