

Three bomb attacks in Iraq on Monday killed at least 12 people
and wounded dozens, as Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki ordered the
US military to stop building a wall around a Sunni enclave in
Baghdad.


A car bomb near an office of a Kurdish political party in a
mainly Christian village of northern Iraq killed at least 10
people and wounded 20, party spokesman Abdul Gani Ali told AFP.


The explosion occurred near the office of the Kurdistan
Democratic Party in the village of Tal Isquf, north of the
restive city of Mosul.


Witnesses told AFP by telephone that the car loaded with
explosives was parked between the party office and a social club
in the village, 30 kilometres (18 miles) north of Mosul.


Some of the victims are thought to be Kurdish peshmerga fighters.


Bomb attacks also ravaged Baghdad on Monday.


A suicide bomber blew himself up outside a restaurant near the
fortified Green Zone in the capital, killing two people and
wounding 10, a security official said.


The attack took place outside the Al-Yasmin restaurant near the
zone which houses the US embassy and the Iraqi parliament, where
a suicide bomber blew himself up on April 12, killing one
lawmaker.


The zone also gets hit regularly by rockets fired by insurgents
and militias.


A third attack, a car bomb, exploded in a parking lot near the
Green Zone, officials said. Details were not immediately known.


The latest violence follows a day of carnage on Sunday when
insurgents killed 50 people, including 23 members of a non-Muslim
minority dragged from a bus and gunned down by the roadside.


The US military, meanwhile, said Monday it will review measures
to secure Baghdad after Maliki ordered it to stop building a tall
concrete wall around the dangerous Sunni enclave of Adhamiyah.


"We are aware of what the press has reported that the prime
minister said," US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
Christopher Garver said in an email to AFP.


"The government of Iraq and multinational forces in Iraq do agree
that we need to protect the people of Iraq," he added.


"How that is done is always being discussed and we will continue
that dialogue. We will coordinate with the Iraqi government and
Iraqi commanders in order to establish effective, appropriate
security measures."


Maliki told a press conference in Cairo on Sunday that he was
against walling in Baghdad's Adhamiyah district.


"I am opposed to the building of the wall and its construction is
going to stop," he said.


Since April 10, US paratroopers have been deploying at night
around Adhamiyah, located in the mainly Shiite east Baghdad, to
erect a five-kilometre (three- mile) wall made of six-tonne
(14,000-pound) concrete sections.


The wall was designed to prevent Shiite death squads from
launching attacks to drive out the Sunnis from the district, and
to prevent Sunni insurgents from using the pocket as a base for
raids into Shiite areas.


US commanders on Sunday further announced plans to construct
similar walls in other restive neighbourhoods of the capital,
saying the tactic was to prevent sectarian attacks.


Brigadier General John F. Campbell, a top US military commander,
had defended the strategy, saying it created "gated communities"
-- like the wealthy private estates in the suburbs of American
cities that are insulated from urban life by gates and wire
fences.


"We've selected communities that have seen an increase in
violence, a heightened violence, and we're protecting some of
those communities with walls," he said at the weekend.


But the latest security measure did not go down well with local
residents and lawmakers.


Mahmud Othman, a Kurdish lawmaker, blasted the idea as a security
failure.


"Erecting a wall around Adhamiyah is the height of failure and a
bad, faulty step that violates human rights," said Othman,
lawmaker from Iraq's Kurdish alliance.


"It's an obvious sign that the policy of US and our government
has failed to keep security."

