

Formula One driver Mark Webber, fresh from a high-speed test on
Malaysia' Sepang Circuit, is to make a leisurely drive around a
proposed night circuit in Singapore on Saturday, his sponsor
said.


The planned drive comes after the Singapore government said
negotiations were under way to host a Formula One event in the
city-state, and it was prepared to offer support.


"Mark Webber will be taking a leisurely drive around the proposed
street circuit," a statement from the Australian's Red Bull
Racing said Friday.


Monaco hosts the circuit's only other street race, and there is
no night race on the calendar, Red Bull said.


Formula One organisers have made clear their intentions to stage
night races to take advantage of time zone differences and boost
TV audiences.


"It's great to hear that Singapore may be included in the global
F1 calendar with what might be the first night race. It will be
fantastic for the city and perfect for the drivers, given the
heat in Southeast Asia.


"However, safety is a priority so it is important that the right
amount of lighting and testing is done," Webber, director of the
Grand Prix Drivers Association, said in the statement.


The 4.8-kilometre (three mile) track proposed by designer Hermann
Tilke takes in Singapore landmarks including the British
colonial-era Raffles Hotel, Red Bull said.


Webber will not use a Formula One car during his 8:30 am drive, a
Red Bull spokesperson told AFP.


Webber was second fastest with a time of 1:36.138 on Thursday
during testing at Malaysia's Sepang circuit ahead of the
Malaysian Grand Prix on April 8.


Minister of State for Trade and Industry, S. Iswaran, said Friday
that negotiations over a possible Singapore F1 event were going
well.


"From what I have gathered from the private sector, they are
going well," he said on radio 938Live.


Another cabinet member, Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore's Second
Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts, said
recently that some government support would be necessary "and we
have indicated to the private parties concerned that some support
is available."


The Straits Times has reported that Formula One supremo Bernie
Ecclestone held talks in the city-state with a tycoon who is
bidding for the right to host an F1 race in the island nation.


The newspaper report said Ecclestone was believed to have had
dinner with Singapore hotel magnate Ong Beng Seng, one of two
local parties jockeying to host the event.


Adding to speculation over the event, Singapore's Economic
Development Board has arranged for journalists to try out an F1
simulator on Saturday.


Mokhzani Mahathir, chairman of the Sepang International Circuit
(SIC), said on Wednesday that Malaysia is not worried by
Singapore's bid to host a race.


But he warned the F1 events should not be held back-to-back.


Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew said two years ago that
he regretted not having built a Formula One race track to
generate more money for the local economy.

