

Alex Ferguson claims Wayne Rooney is equipped to cope with the
burden of carrying the hopes of a nation, despite extending his
goalless run for England to 15 competitive games against Andorra
in midweek.


The Manchester United striker has failed to score in a
competitive international for his country since Euro 2004 and his
recent performances for the national team have been well below
the standards he has set with his club this season.


Rooney's failure to produce the goods at international level has
coincided with England's dismal form under beleaguered coach
Steve McClaren.


But after arriving at Old Trafford in a 30million pound deal from
Everton as a teenager, United boss Ferguson insists that Rooney
has already proved his ability to cope with the expectancy and
pressure.


Ferguson said: "The expectancy that Wayne has to put up with as
England's best player shouldn't be a burden for him because he
has had the same thing at United ever since he joined us.


"He has had to carry a weight on his shoulders here because ever
since the day he arrived, people have been talking of him as
being one of our greatest players. He has handled it, so I don't
see the England pressure being a big problem for him.


"You cannot put all the responsibility on one player, though,
because the team isn't playing well. I think they have all put
their hands up to that.


"Obviously, playing alongside players every week as he does here
at United helps him play better, without question. But he is
still a young lad and we have to remember that. We are trying to
develop him.


"But Wayne is back with us now and he will play against Blackburn
on Saturday. Playing games all the time is no problem for him
because he is as strong as a bull and he could play every day."


Ferguson's former Old Trafford assistant McClaren has been
subjected to intense criticism from fans following the 0-0 draw
in Israel last week and the dismal 3-0 win against Andorra.


But the United boss claims that McClaren is purely the victim of
the 'mocking' culture in England.


He said: "You even get television programmes now where people are
mocked all the time and nobody can enjoy that. Steve will be
feeling it.


"But he is a battler and he will get on with it and I think he
has said that. They said that Alf Ramsay was criticised in 1966
and I know a lot of England managers have had it, but it nowhere
near what is happening now.


"I don't know if the criticism is media driven or just a
reflection of the culture nowadays, but the only way to answer it
is to win every game 5-0."


Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, Louis Saha and Edwin van der Sar are set to
return against Blackburn following injury lay-offs and Ferguson
admits it is a game United must win.


He said: "We can only look to win each game as it comes up, but
this is a big game.


"April is just around the corner and then you get the final spurt
in May, so we just have to keep our form and make sure we
continue in this vein."

