

The EU hopes to bring about an end to the Russian embargo on
Polish meat and plant products before an EU-Russia summit on May
18, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Friday.


"We hope to be able to resolve this disagreement before the
summit so that we can start negotiations on a partnership and
cooperation agreement," Steinmeier said as he arrived for a
meeting of EU foreign ministers in the German port city of
Bremen.


Germany currently holds the six-month rotating presidency of the
European Union.


Russia imposed an embargo on meat from EU member Poland in
November 2005, alleging fraud in the implementation of safety
standards by Polish authorities.


Poland, however, argues that Moscow is playing politics because
of differences with the conservative government in Warsaw.


Angered by the embargo, Poland last November blocked the launch
of talks between Russia and the EU on a broad economic
cooperation agreement aimed among other things at securing a
reliable flow to Europe from Russia's massive oil and gas fields.


The European Commission said Friday it had provided Moscow with
information that should allay its concerns about the safety of
Polish food exports and allow for the embargo to be lifted.


The Commission, the EU's executive arm, said it had sent "a
comprehensive reply" to questions from Russian authorities
following recent inspections by Russian experts in Poland.


"The Commission is convinced that all the questions raised by the
Russian authorities have been addressed in a comprehensive way
which should enable the Russian authorities to lift their ban on
imports of meat and plant products from Poland," said Commission
spokesman Philip Tod.


Tod said EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou would hold talks
on the issue with Russian Agriculture Minister Alexei Gordeyev in
mid-April at a yet to be determined location.


Russia had also threatened to broaden the embargo to ban EU
animal products from another five or six EU nations unless the
Europeans provide quality control papers for exports outside of
the EU by the end of March.


The EU-Russia summit on May 18 will take place in the eastern
Russian city of Samara.

