

Iran said on Friday that the UN Security Council had been
exploited in the escalating row with Britain over the detention
of 15 British sailors, and defended its capture of the group.


The Security Council on Thursday expressed "grave concern" at the
detention of the 15 who were captured in Gulf waters a week ago,
and urged Tehran to allow consular access to the group but.


But the council declined to back Britain with a call for the
immediate release of the 14 men and one woman.


"Unfortunately the Security Council was once again exploited by
issuing a statement about an affair which is not within the
Council's responsibility and is completely bilateral," Iran's
mission to the United Nations said in a statement carried by the
official IRNA news agency.


It defended the seizure of the Britons last Friday, insisting the
sailors "had violated the internationally recognised border
between Iran and Iraq."


"Iran had no option but to detain the British sailors to exercise
its right to sovereignty and prevent illegal entry into its
territory," the statement said.


A prominent hardline cleric also warned Britain over its response
to the detention and urged European nations not to interfere.


"Britain will pay a high price if it presses on with its bullying
gestures," Ahmad Khatami said in his Friday prayer sermon carried
live on state radio.


"They should know that Iran has stood against Britain's master
the United States. Britain is nothing."


He also warned the European Union "not to interfere as their
interference will further complicate the affair."


EU foreign ministers, meeting in Germany on Friday, are expected
to adopt a statement deploring Iran's seizure of the sailors, the
second such incident in three years.


In June 2004, six British marines and two sailors were captured,
then paraded blindfolded on Iranian television. They admitted
they had entered Iranian waters illegally but were released after
three days.


In November 2005 Iran arrested two fishermen, a Frenchman and a
German national, for "illegal entry" into its southern gulf
waters.


The two were released after serving 15 months in jail.

