

The French economy is showing signs of vitality on several
fronts, but analysts were nevertheless cautious to gloomy on
Friday, three weeks before a presidential election.


A string of official figures amounting to the last pre-election
snapshot of the economy gave a broadly positive picture in which
growth, unemployment, prices, purchasing power and the burden of
past borrowing are central features.


The economy grew by 2.1 percent last year, the INSEE statistics
institute said, revising upwards an earlier estimate of 2.0
percent after 1.2 percent in 2005 and 2.0 percent in 2004.


But this still leaves France below the eurozone average growth
rate of 2.6 percent, and is at the bottom of the government's
forecast range of 2.0-2.5 percent.


Economist Marc Touati at forecasting body ACDE said the figures
"should not make us forget that the French economy remains today
very fragile" and in terms of growth, ranking 10th of the 12
countries in the eurozone in 2006.


He also warned that the main force behind French growth,
household consumption, would grow by only 2.0 percent this year,
putting the economy on course for growth of 1.8 percent.


Campaigning for the first round of the election on April 22 is
marked by a strong sense that France is under-performing and that
many of the economic and social policies of the last two the
three decades have either reached their limits, or are no longer
appropriate.


There is widespread agreement that they should be at least
adjusted or, in the view of candidates on the right and far left,
radically reformed to the point of "rupture," although the
proposed remedies are also radically different.


Growth, together with controls on spending, have enabled France
to reduce further its public deficit below the European Union
ceiling of 3.0 percent which it breached in 2002.


The data also showed that budget overspending fell to 2.5 percent
of output, below a government forecast of 2.6 percent, and the
debt fell sharply from 66.2 percent in 2005 to 63.9 percent but
still above the EU ceiling of 60.0 percent. The government had
expected 64.6 percent.


The debt, the accumulation of past deficits, has emerged as an
issue in the election, and the finance minister in the centre-
right government, Thierry Breton, commented that the reduction
was "the biggest achieved in France for 30 years."


In January, the EU dropped action against France for running an
excessive deficit because it had fallen below 3.0 percent in
2005.


There is a strong perception among the electorate that inflation
is rising and that spending power has fallen.


But inflation fell to a seven-year low point of 1.0 percent in
February owing to a fall in oil prices, and growth of real
incomes doubled in 2006 to 2.8 percent from 1.3 percent in 2005.


However, the percentage of gross domestic product taken by all
forms of tax rose to 44.4 percent last year from 43.8 percent in
2005.


Growth has been persistently underpinned by strong consumer
spending, much of it financed from savings, although the latest
data for 2006 also showed a belated acceleration of investment.


Household confidence firmed slightly in March to minus 22 from
minus 23 in February, data from the statistics institute INSEE
showed. But at forecasting institute Xerfi, economist Alexander
Law said that this was "scarcely euphoric."


At the Asteres institute, Nicolas Bouzou commented that
"household confidence remains low" even though "buying power rose
by 2.8 percent in 2006, mainly because of a fall in inflation."


The reduction of debt had been achieved largely through cash
management and the sale of property. To contain and reduce the
deficit further, "there will be no avoiding a structural reform
of the state," he said.


On Thursday, INSEE reported a 1.0-percent fall in unemployment in
February, reducing the rate by 0.1 percent to 8.4 percent, the
lowest figure since June 1983.


Persistently high unemployment has long been a hot political
issue in France. But in the last year it has fallen steadily amid
much controversy over  measures taken and how the statistics are
calculated.


A deficit in the trade balance increased by 7.1 percent last
year, holding growth back by 0.4 percentage points. The worsening
trade deficit has led analysts to warn that France is becoming
structurally uncompetitive.

