

India may not be seen as a likely place to sell a 1,000-dollar
handbag, but top luxury brands from France said on Friday that
the country holds the key to a major boost in their global sales.


"After China, India will be the next growth story," Yves
Carcelle, CEO of Louis Vuitton, said in the Indian capital at the
start of a two-day conference promoting international luxury
goods.


The per capita income in India hovers just above 700 dollars,
according to the World Bank, but with a one-billion-plus economy,
increasing numbers of people are crossing into the category of
super-rich.


India now has the highest number of billionaires in Asia,
accorded to Forbes magazine, and 1.6 million households earn more
than 100,000 dollars a year, making them all potential customers
of luxury goods.


The Indian luxury market is thought to be worth some two billion
dollars and is growing at 20 percent a year, according to India's
main trade federation FICCI.


"We believe in the potential of the Indian market," added
Carcelle. "But right now we are just at the beginning."


For the moment, sales in India for the brands represented by the
Comite Colbert, an association of 70 French luxury houses, are
tiny, accounting for a quarter of a percent of worldwide sales of
40 billion dollars.


But according to retail consultancy Technopak, which last year
surveyed  4,000 affluent consumers across the country, the Indian
market could potentially be worth up to 14 billion dollars a
year.


The consultancy said there were 1.6 million families who could
spend up to 9,000 dollars on items including fashion goods and
jewellery.


However, Carcelle and other top officials of the French houses
said high Indian tariffs were slowing their expansion in India.


"It is very difficult for our customers to understand why they
have to pay 35 percent more in India than in Paris or London,"
said a Chanel executive.


India's Commerce Minister Kamal Nath told the conference the
government was open to reducing duties on imports of luxury
products as long as it could be done "without hurting the local
industry."


Luxury goods retailers added finding the right store location was
difficult too with most opting to sell in five-star hotels. They
avoid the "high street" as most markets present a chaotic scene
of crowded shops along potholed roads.


"There is a lack of selective retail environments," said Damien
Vernet, general manager for Louis Vuitton in the Middle East and
India, whose company has two shops in India, both in top hotels.


"If it was not for that obstacle, we probably would have a few
more stores in India."


As a result, the stores are often empty, with only one or two
customers seen going into a Louis Vuitton shop or Christian Dior
to browse items like a 2,300 dollar cotton cardigan, on a weekday
evening.


"Right now the numbers are very marginal. But India is one of the
markets where growth will be exponential," said Vernet, adding
the company was experiencing "double-digit" growth in the
country.


Xavier Bertrand, managing director for Chanel in India, said the
company had recorded sales growth of "between 40 and 50 percent"
last year, and will next week open its fifth Indian store in the
southern high-tech hub of Bangalore.


"What makes India unique is a young population that also aspires
more and more to luxury products," Bertrand told AFP, adding he
expected to see similar growth figures for the next three to four
years.


And many of these young, who have come of age during the economic
liberalisation of the 1990s, are more than ready to eschew the
independence struggle-inspired "buy Indian" ethos of their
parents and grandparents.


"I would like to call it traditional modernism," said Shimul
Mehta Vyas, head of India's top fashion school, the National
Institute of Design.


"On the one hand we still uphold our traditional culture but on
the other hand we aspire to be global consumers."


But unlike lower-end global American brands such as McDonald's --
which in India serves spicy concoctions of mashed potato and
cottage cheese for the largely vegetarian population -- the
French say they will not "Indianise."


"What we propose is Chanel style, whether you like it or not. If
you don't like it, don't buy it," Chanel chairman Francoise
Montenay, who also heads the Comite Colbert board, said.

