

The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament on Friday
proposed scrapping a two-term limit on holding the presidency, a
move that could allow President Vladimir Putin to stay in office.


"I suggest we consider whether it is not necessary, considering
the many, the millions of appeals from our citizens, to revise
this norm," Sergei Mironov told a senate session.


"We all know the position of the president on this question and I
think that a final decision will be up to Vladimir Vladimirovich
Putin and maybe he will listen to the lawmakers of Russia,"
Mironov said.


Mironov proposed that the new limit should be three terms in
office.


The senate leader, who heads the A Just Russia party, a pro-
Kremlin group, also proposed extending the president's mandate
from the current four years to five or seven years in office.


Under Russia's current constitution, Putin is not allowed to run
for a third consecutive term and must step down next year.
Presidential elections are scheduled for March 2, 2008.


In the absence of fully democratic institutions, analysts,
Western governments and others are concerned to see a smooth
transition in this vast oil-rich and nuclear-armed state.


Putin, who enjoys high popularity ratings, has been asked
repeatedly whether he would seek a third term. His standard
answer has been that he will respect the constitution.


There have been growing calls from local officials and
legislatures for Putin, who came to power in elections in 2000
after being nominated by outgoing president Boris Yeltsin, to
serve a third term.


On Friday analysts voiced doubts about the likelihood of Putin
staying on, noting that Mironov had made such comments in the
past and that the Kremlin had not reacted positively.


The head of the Moscow office of the US research centre the
Heritage Foundation, Yevgeny Volk, said that some in the Kremlin
were seeking a way for Putin to remain in power but had yet to
find a way of arranging it.


"Mr Mironov's views certainly reflect sentiment that exists in
the Russian elite.... They can lose their jobs, be taken into
oblivion," said Volk.


But "Mr Putin understands fully that following the example of the
Central Asian republics, like with Turkmenbashi, will be a mortal
blow to his reputation," Volk said, referring to the late
president-for-life of Turkmenistan, Saparmurat Niyazov, who died
in December.


Nikolai Petrov, an analyst with the Carnegie Moscow Centre, said
he doubted Putin would stay on and believed that the Russian
leader could even leave before his term expires in order to stop
growing in-fighting among the elite.


"I'm pretty sure he doesn't plan to stay longer... The president
can't afford the luxury of being a lame duck and he's watching
and taking notice if any politicians behave as if Putin is
leaving," said Petrov.


"It's more and more complicated for him to keep the balance
between major political clans. Certain clans are making decisions
on their own. The closer the election, the more complicated it
will be," he said.

