

Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul has declined an invitation
to attend an EU meeting Saturday, but officials here denied that
his decision was linked to disappointment over the Union's
failure to invite Turkey to its 50th anniversary celebrations.


A Turkish diplomat said Friday that "naturally there is certain
resentment" in Ankara that Turkey, a long-standing membership
hopeful, was not invited to the celebrations in Berlin last week.


"We would have expected an invitation, given our decades-old
relationship with the European Union," the diplomat told AFP.


"But this has nothing to do with Mr. Gul's decision" not to
attend a lunch of foreign ministers of EU member nations and
candidate countries in the German city of Bremen on Saturday, she
said.


A foreign ministry statement said that Gul's "working schedule"
did not allow him to go to Bremen and that his undersecretary,
Ertugrul Apakan, would represent the country at the gathering.


On Tuesday, Gul had also criticised an antique beer mug presented
to French President Jacques Chirac as an EU going-away present
for reportedly depicting Napoleon's 1799 victory over Ottoman
forces in Egypt.


"The European Union should concern itself with the future rather
than the past," he said. "Harping on the past does not befit the
EU vision."


The Turkish press said the mug, given to Chirac as a retirement
gift by German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the anniversary
celebrations, reflected hostility towards Turkey.


Separately, the foreign ministry said Friday that Gul would pay a
two-day visit to Germany, which currently holds the EU
presidency, next week.


He will hold talks with his German counterpart Frank-Walter
Steinmeier in Berlin Tuesday and travel on to Cologne the
following day to meet with representatives of the large Turkish
immigrant community in Germany, it said.


Turkey's EU membership bid suffered a serious blow in December
when the EU froze membership talks in eight of the 35 policy
areas that candidates are required to complete in response to
Ankara's refusal to grant trade privileges to Cyprus.


Ending a long hiatus in the talks, the EU Thursday began
negotiations with Turkey on "enterprise and industry policy,"
only the second chapter that Ankara has managed to get opened.

