

Japan said Friday it ordered textbooks to delete references to
the military forcing local people to commit suicide in the Battle
of Okinawa, in the latest incident highlighting Tokyo's views of
World War II.


The 83-day battle, the bloodiest in the Pacific war, left 190,000
Japanese dead, half of them Okinawan civilians. The US death toll
reached 12,520 due to die- hard Japanese resistance on the
southern Japanese island chain.


While many civilians perished in the all-out US bombardment,
local accounts say Japanese troops forced residents of Okinawa --
an independent kingdom until the 19th century -- to commit
suicide rather than surrender to US forces.


In recent years, nationalist academics have insisted that such
suicide pacts were voluntary and not due to orders by troops from
mainland Japan.


The education ministry said it ordered changes in a textbook for
the first time over the issue.


"There were people who were forced by Japanese troops to commit
group suicides," was a sentence in a high school textbook
prepared by Shimizu Shoin Co., the ministry said.


The ministry changed the wording to "there were people who were
driven into group suicides."


The ministry said in the report: "There have been arguments and
counter- arguments on the matter and it is not appropriate to
determine that there were military orders."


The ministry's action comes a month after an international uproar
over Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's remarks on history.


Abe, known for his nationalist views, said that there was no
clear evidence that the military directly coerced Korean and
other Asian "comfort women" to work in frontline brothels for
Japanese troops during the war.


Abe said Friday he had no objections to the ministry's orders on
the textbooks.


"I believe the screening system has been followed appropriately,"
Abe told reporters.


In 2005, protests broke out in China and South Korea after Japan
approved textbooks that make little mention of wartime
atrocities. China cited the books to block Japan's cherished bid
for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council.

