

Philippines police Friday charged a gunman who took a busload of
children hostage even as their parents rallied round in support
of him, saying he has helped their impoverished district.


A planned rally outside Manila police headquarters where Armando
Ducat and an accomplice are being detained failed to materialise,
after parents earlier called for their release from custody.


However, public sympathy is such that the government's department
of social welfare and development, which will represent the
children on behalf of the state in any prosecution, is finding it
difficult building a case without the parents' help.


Meanwhile prosecutors said they had filed charges of abduction
and illegal possession of firearms against Ducat and Cesar
Carbonell.


Ducat, who owns a pre-school day centre in a Manila slum, and
Carbonell on Wednesday held 26 children from the facility and
four teachers hostage as he railed against government corruption
and called for free housing and education for his charges.


President Gloria Arroyo's spokesman Ignacio Bunye said she wanted
the case against them speeded up. At the same time, social
welfare agencies have been ordered to give "high-level attention"
to the needs of students from the poor communities.


"Criminal and social justice -- rule of law and compassion for
the poor -- must prevail at all times," he said.


Lara Moreno, mother of one of the children, told the Philippine
Star daily that parents have "no plans" to file charges against
Ducat.


She said that while they did not agree with his actions, he was
still seen as a "good man" who tried to help Manila's urban poor.


"We owe him a lot. He gave our children free education, free food
and clothing. He is always there to help," said Rosita Osita,
another parent.


Osita said they could not act against Ducat out of a "sense of
gratitude."


"We don't want him in jail," said Mirabelle Moreno, whose six-
year-old son was on the bus.


"He was just doing what he thought was right and just for us ...
the poor," she told the Philippine Daily Inquirer.


Another parent, Mary Jane dela Cruz, said Ducat was a "good man
who only wanted to help us," and told the Inquirer she would not
press charges.


One of the teachers who was held, Elmer Calleja, told reporters
they would rally to demand the men's release because "we respect
Ducat's beliefs."


Arroyo has called for tough action against Ducat and Carbonell to
prevent copycat hostage-takings.


"The parents are not interested in filing a case against Ducat,"
Marcelino Pedroza, the police superintendent leading the inquiry,
told reporters.


But Justice Secretary Raul Gonzales said the reluctance of the
parents to have charges laid would not prevent the state doing
so.


"What he did was a public offence," he told a press conference,
adding that it was an act of terrorism.


To many in the sprawling slum where the children live, Ducat, a
56-year-old civil engineer, is seen as a hero rather than a
criminal.


The day centre he built and owns is regarded as a beacon in the
network of dark, musky alleys and cardboard and tin shacks where
he hoped to mould grimy children into future leaders, or at least
college-educated workers.


He released his hostages after he was allowed on radio and
television to deliver a rambling discourse on poverty, tainted
politics and how the public should join hands in fighting
corruption.

