

South Korean riot police Friday staged a massive show of force as
protesters against free trade talks with the United States took
to the streets.


With just hours to go before the deadline for an agreement, about
10,000 riot police were deployed around the capital to head off
clashes.


At the talks venue in the hilltop Grand Hyatt hotel, 30-40
plainclothes officers mingled with guests in the luxurious lobby.


Everyone entering the hotel passed through a newly-installed
metal detector. Guests, some of them bemused at all the fuss, had
their bags searched. Hundreds of police carrying shields and
batons guarded the approach roads.


At the presidential Blue House about 500 people displaying a huge
banner reading "No FTA" scuffled with police. Four had their
heads shaved in a traditional form of protest.


In the city centre 50-60 drum-beating child protesters, attired
in pink jumpers and waving streamers, were met by hundreds of
helmeted officers drawn up in ranks.


No major clashes were immediately reported in the city. Last
November major anti-FTA demonstrations left 63 people injured
across the country, including 35 police officers.


The Korean Alliance Against the Korea-US FTA said it plans an
evening candlelight protest in central Seoul with more than
10,000 workers, farmers and activists taking part.


About 3,500 college students began marching toward the plaza in
front of City Hall to join the candlelight protest after they
finished another rally, demanding colleges stop raising tuition
fees.


President Roh Moo-Hyun faces opposition not only from farmers and
other workers who fear for their jobs but also from some
legislators.


On Friday morning 47 lawmakers in a news conference outside the
National Assembly claimed the government is "cutting corners" in
trying to seal the deal with the US, Yonhap news agency reported.


An association of about 260 college professors and scholars said
in a statement an FTA would worsen income gaps and undermine
social harmony.


Moon Sung-hyun, head of the minor Democratic Labor Party, has
also been on hunger strike for three weeks in front of the Blue
House.


The two sides have until 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, or 6:00 pm
Friday in Washington, to reach agreement.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday if it is to be
passed while US President George W. Bush still has authority to
"fast-track" trade legislation.

