

Kyrgyzstan's parliament approved President Kurmanbek Bakiyev's
nominee for the prime minister's post on Friday amid a political
crisis in the strategic Central Asian country.


Almaz Atambayev, 50, was confirmed in the post by 48 votes in the
75-seat parliament.


The nomination of a moderate critic of the president was seen as
a bid by Bakiyev to avert a threat of mass street protests.


"From now on, with my nomination, if God wills it, stability will
be restored to Kyrgyzstan," Atambayev said after his
confirmation.


This ex-Soviet state is seen by outside powers as a strategic
crossroads, as it borders China and lies close to Afghanistan.


It hosts separate Russian and US airbases a few kilometres
(miles) apart.


But the country has experienced continued instability since
former president Askar Akayev was ousted in a 2005 uprising known
as the "tulip revolution."


"I hope this step... will give positive results, help end the
escalation of social tension and force those people who are
desperate for power at any cost to think long and hard," Bakiyev
said on Thursday.


Opposition forces seeking Bakiyev's resignation have threatened
major street protests starting on April 9 in the provincial
centres and from April 11 in the capital, with a view to securing
an early presidential election.


Opposition leader Felix Kulov, until recently an ally of
Bakiyev's, said earlier that Atambayev's nomination would make no
difference to those plans and that there was no question of his
forces joining the government.


Atambayev briefly served as industry minister under Bakiyev
before defecting to the opposition last April.


The change of prime minister came after Atambayev's predecessor
sacked seven cabinet members in a bid to allay opposition
concerns but was over-ruled by Bakiyev.


The president, who the opposition has accused of corruption and
mismanagement, has ruled out early elections.


His mandate runs until 2010.


But on Wednesday he said he might agree to hold a referendum on
his leadership this summer.

