

Tokyo opened Friday its tallest skyscraper, welcoming thousands
of visitors from businessmen to housewives and young couples
eager to explore its upmarket shops and restaurants.


Tokyo Midtown opened its wide glass doors in the morning and
within hours thousands were inside, with young women in high
heels quickly emerging with shopping bags as the stores did brisk
business.


Temporary red-rope fences were installed to manage the flow of
people, with a guide stationed every few metres (yards) to assist
the overwhelmed newcomer.


Tokyo Midtown, built on the site of the former Defence Agency, is
a 69,000 square-metre (741,000 square-foot) expanse that includes
132 shops, restaurants, hospital, museum and a design studio.


Its tower stands at 248 metres (813 feet), making it the tallest
structure in the metropolis after the Eiffel Tower-inspired Tokyo
Tower. A Ritz-Carlton Hotel on Midtown's top floors offers the
city's most expensive rooms.


Tokyo's latest giant urban complex enjoyed sunny spring weather
on its opening day, as clusters of people admired the blooming
cherry trees in its one- and-a-half hectares (four acres) of
green space.


Elderly men took pictures of the scenery with their cameras,
while younger couples snapped away with their cell phones and
others walked dogs.


"Midtown is great because of the greenery," said Ayako Kimura,
27, an employee at one of the companies in Midtown, on a lunch
break.


"It's very calm and the wide open space means that even if there
are many people, there's no traffic and it's easy to navigate,"
she added, biting into a sandwich as she sat on a bench with two
colleagues.


In one corner of Midtown is the 21_21 Design Site conceptualised
by renowned architect Tadao Ando and fashion designer Issey
Miyake.


Featuring unpainted concrete triangles touching the ground, 21_21
Design Site is Japan's first institute dedicated to studying the
creative process of design.


"I came here today especially because I like Ando's architecture
and design," said 18-year-old Tsukuru Goto, off from school on
spring vacation.

