

US oil giant Exxon Mobil, Saudi Aramco and Sinopec announced here
Friday two joint ventures worth about five billion dollars to
operate 750 service stations and a petrochemical refinery in
China.


The announcement of the project, Exxon Mobil's largest single
investment in China, marked the culmination of 12 years of
preparations, according to the American company.


"It's our biggest project so far in China," Sarah Du, a Beijing-
based Exxon Mobil spokeswoman, told AFP.


"Developing this type of joint venture is a very complicated
process and Fujian is the most complex so far in China due to the
nature of its integrated business," she said.


In a joint statement, the companies called the two joint ventures
"the first fully integrated refining, petrochemicals and fuels
marketing project with foreign participation in China."


The refining joint venture, which will start operations in early
2009, will expand one that already existed in the southeastern
province of Fujian between Sinopec and the Fujian government.


It will lead to a tripling of the production of refined Saudi
Arabian crude to 240,000 barrels per day, the statement said.


A joint venture co-owned by Sinopec, China's top refiner, has a
50 percent stake in the venture, while Exxon Mobil and Saudi
Aramco each have 25 percent.


The second joint venture will operate some 750 service stations
and a network of terminals across Fujian province, according to
the statement.


Sinopec holds a 55 percent stake in the service station venture,
with Exxon Mobil and Saudi Aramco each holding 22.5 percent.


The partnership, which aims to meet China's rapidly growing
demand for petroleum products and petrochemicals, also includes a
long-term crude supply agreement with Saudi Aramco, the statement
said.


The three companies said the government had approved both joint
ventures. A breakdown for the investment for each of the ventures
were not provided.


"It will ... boost the development of China's petrochemical
industry and contribute to the economic development of Fujian
province," the statement said.

