

A French nun at the centre of a Vatican case to beatify pope John
Paul II said Friday that she had been cured of Parkinson's
disease by the late pontiff.


"I am cured. It is the work of God, through the intercession of
pope John Paul II," said Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, smiling
broadly before a barrage of television cameras.


"It's something very strong, very difficult to put into words,"
she said.


The 46-year-old nun held her first news conference since the
Vatican revealed that her testimony of being cured by John Paul
II could provide evidence of a miracle that is essential for the
beatification of the late pope.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre had been suffering from Parkinson's, a
degenerative disease of the nervous system, since 2002, but has
testified that she was cured in April 2005 after praying to John
Paul II.


She recounted how she had suddenly been able to write legibly
after struggling for months to hold a pen, the disease having
progressed to the point that she no longer controlled motion in
her hand.


"I came across a sister who had helped me tremendously and I told
her as I held up my hand, my left hand, 'look, my hand is no
longer trembling'," she said.


"Jean Paul II has cured me."


A member of a Catholic congregation from Puyricard, near Aix-en-
Provence, Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre had been working as a nurse
at a Paris maternity clinic since late 2006.


Her identity had been kept secret during a year-long Vatican
inquiry into her claims that she had been cured through the late
pope's intercession.


"I was sick and now I am cured. It's up to the church to say
whether this is a miracle," said the nun during the news
conference held in the southern city of Aix-en-Provence.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre is due to travel to Rome later in the
day to take part in the process that is to culminate with the
beatification of John Paul II, which would put him on the first
step to sainthood.


She will attend a solemn ceremony on Monday, the second
anniversary of John Paul II's death, when the beatification
dossier is to be handed over to the Vatican's saint-making body.

