

Australia's bid to set down markers ahead of next year's Olympic
Games has so far struggled to get off the ground here at the
world track cycling championships.


The Aussies, along with the French and the British, are one of
the sport's superpowers and after their impressive medals haul in
Athens 2004 are one of the favourites to top the podium in
Beijing in 2008.


After two days of competition, however, the Australians are still
looking for their first gold medal from six events held so far.


Britain have won two and will contend two gold medal finals later
on Friday when Rebecca Romero will battle defending champion
Sarah Hammer for gold in the final of the women's individual
pursuit and the men's pursuit team face Ukraine.


Australian specialist Katie Mactier will race Britain's Wendy
Houvenaghel for the bronze medal, however that will be scant
consolation after the Australian men's significant setback on
Friday.


Britain's pursuit team cruised into the final and will now meet
Ukraine.


The fancied Australians could only finish in sixth.


It means the team pursuit world record holders, and world and
Olympic champions failed to make the medal rounds for the first
time since 2001 when Ukraine took gold ahead of Britain and
bronze medal winner Germany.


Endurance coach Ian McKenzie, who was confident his troops would
step up to the mark, admitted he was disappointed.


"I was pretty condfident we could finish in the top four so to
not finish in the top four is pretty disappointing," he said,
admitting he was mystified as to what went wrong.


"No idea. I haven't sat down with the guys yet and discussed it
but nothing obvious sticks out."


Three of the Australians who beat their underdog status last year
to win gold ahead of Britain - Peter Dawson, Matt Goss and Mark
Jamieson - were in Friday's qualifying line-up along with new boy
Zakkari Dempster.


But despite a promising start they began to fade halfway through
the 16-lap race against the clock.


McKenzie said it appeared they simply went out too fast.


"Without really studying it in fine detail that seems to be the
obvious answer - we started too quick."


Those tempted to look into these results so far as an indication
of Olympic prowess shouldn't be too quick, however.


Australia won a record five gold, two silver and two bronze
medals in the Athens velodrome and are likely to be among the
gold medal contenders in Beijing.


In preparation for the defence of their team pursuit Olympic
crown they are likely to welcome back a handful of former
trackies who are now professional road riders in Europe.


The likes of Graeme Brown (Rabobank), Brett Lancaster (Milram),
Luke Roberts (CSC) and Brad McGee (Francaise des Jeux) could be
brought into the mix to increase internal competition ahead of
the Games.


Australian Ryan Bayley, the Olympics sprint and keirin champion,
meanwhile will continue their hunt for medals in the men's keirin
on Friday along with Mark French.


Anna Meares and Kristine Bayley, the sister of Ryan, won bronze
in the inaugural women's team sprint on Thursday behind Britain
and the Netherlands.

