

Britain was giving "serious consideration" Friday to a
confidential letter handed by Iran to its Tehran embassy
concerning the 15 detained British sailors.


But London, which has repeatedly demanded consular access to the
naval personnel and details of their whereabouts, remained tight-
lipped about what the note contained.


A week on from their capture in the northern Gulf, the United
Nations Security Council has expressed "grave concern" at their
detention but declined to back Britain with a call for their
immediate release.


"We can confirm that ... the Iranian government has sent a formal
note to the British embassy," a foreign ministry spokeswoman told
AFP. "We're not commenting on what's in that letter.


"Such exchanges are always confidential, so we cannot divulge any
details. But we are giving the message serious consideration, and
will soon respond formally to the Iranian government."


The spokeswoman declined to say when it was received, but the
development came as the UN Security Council agreed a joint
statement voicing its "grave concern" at Iran's actions.


The statement was a watered-down version of a draft proposed by
London which had wanted the UN to "deplore" Tehran's seizure of
the British naval staff, and the subsequent broadcast of footage
of them and release of letters by the only female sailor, Faye
Turney.


British finance minister Gordon Brown, on a visit to British
troops in Afghanistan, denounced Turney's treatment.


"The UN resolution is calling definitively for their release.
That's the unanimous view of the international community," he
said. "The treatment of Faye Turney is cruel, callous, inhuman
and unacceptable."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett was expected to seek
her European Union counterparts' support over the standoff
Friday, at an EU meeting in Bremen, Germany.


Meanwhile experts pored over a second letter apparently addressed
by Turney to her local member of parliament.


In it, she stressed how nice her captors were and seemingly asked
why Britain had allowed its sailors to stray into Iranian waters.


Analysts said it was written in odd English, had peculiar content
and differed from the first letter, apparently from her to her
family.


Paul Beaver, a leading defence expert, said Iran was winning the
"propaganda war" with Britain through the release of the letter
and footage of the sailors.


The letter was written in "very strange English" and could have
been translated from Farsi, he said.


The fact that she called for British troops to be withdrawn from
Iraq suggested it was written under duress, he added.


"She knows that as a serving member of the armed forces she has
no public opinion on that. That's the standard way everyone looks
at it in the military," he explained.


Beaver said to expect further release of footage or letters.


"What they are doing is managing the propaganda war really well
-- and they are winning quite nicely, I would say, at the
moment," he said.


"They have got everyone's attention. They are clearly getting
things out, using the girl because they know in the West that's a
soft spot.


"I don't like it but I think they're doing very well."

