

Insurgents shot down an Ethiopian military helicopter Friday as
unrest in the Somali capital which claimed dozens of lives in a
few hours escalated.


Clashes between Somali government forces with their Ethiopian
allies and Somali insurgents erupted across the city before the
MI24 helicopter was hit by a missile and came down in Mogadishu
airport.


"The plane has crashed and nobody came out," a Somali security
officer at Mogadish airport told AFP.


Black smoke poured from the wreckage of the Ethiopian helicopter
which came down near the base at the airport used by Ugandan
troops in an African Union peacekeeping force. It was not known
how many troops were on the helicopter.


There was heavy fighting across the city and the death toll from
24 hours of clashes sparked by an Ethiopian offensive on
insurgents rose to 38.


Ethiopian forces entered the neighbouring country in December to
support an offensive by the transitional government against
Islamists who controlled Mogadishu.


The Islamists have fled but vowed to pursue a guerrilla war
against the government and its Ethiopian allies.


Eleven people died overnight in the city's biggest hospital in
the Medina district out of 80 wounded people who arrived after
Thursday's fighting, hospital officials said.


Dark smoke rose above a city stadium as Ethiopian-Somali forces
and insurgents fought on the ground for a second consecutive day.


Fighting was reported both in the north and southern districts of
the city that have witnessed heavy insurgent activity in recent
weeks.


Five people were killed in a southern neighbourbood overnight
when two mortar shells landed on a house, residents said.


"A mortar shell landed in a house very close to mine. We rushed
to the scene to see what happened, but minutes later another
mortar shell landed in the same area," said Wardigley
neighbourhood resident Mohamed Abdullah.


A woman and her daughter who lived in the house died in the first
shelling and three neighbours who came to see what had happened
died in the second, while six people were injured, residents
said.


"The rest of the family have already fled the town but this woman
has refused to go and this is what happened," said Asha Mumin, a
relative of the dead woman.


Residents said they were expecting casualty figures to shoot up
after further body counts from Thursday's fighting that saw
Ethiopian troops, backing the Somali government, carry out their
first helicopter raids on Mogadishu since they drove out an
Islamist movement three months ago.


Fifteen civilians were killed Thursday as well as seven Ethiopian
troops, wth the powerful Hawiye clan, which has largely
controlled the Somali capital since 1991.


More than 100 people have died in Mogadishu since the start of
the year, according to an AFP count.


The United Nations said on Thursday that 57,000 people had fled
the coastal city since February, 12,000 in the last week alone.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

