

US investment group KKR on Friday increased its offer for
Alliance Boots, the biggest pharmacy chain in Europe, to 10.06
billion pounds (14.72 billion euros, 19.61 billion dollars) in
cash.


KKR, which is tabling a joint bid with Alliance Boots' executive
deputy chairman Stefano Pessina, has offered 1,040 pence per
share.


Alliance Boots on March 12 snubbed an offer worth 1,000 pence per
share. This time, however, the pharmacy group has agreed to open
its books to KKR and Pessina.


"The board has agreed to grant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
and Stefano Pessina a limited period to undertake confirmatory
due diligence. A further announcement will be made as and when
appropriate," it said in a statement.


In response KKR and Pessina said they would begin due diligence
shortly.


They added in their statement: "The consortium's planned
acquisition of Alliance Boots represents a long-term commitment
to develop further all of the company's existing businesses, both
in the UK and overseas.


"The consortium intends to invest further in Alliance Boots in
order to best position the Company to respond to the rapid
structural changes in the European pharmacy retail and wholesale
markets in which it operates."


KKR and Pessina cautioned, however, that Friday's development did
not amount to a firm intention to make an offer.


Pali International analyst Nick Bubb said in the absence of any
other offer, the bid of 1,040 pence per share would be
recommended, after due diligence.


"We think that (1,040 pence) is very generous and that KKR will
really struggle to generate an adequate return on that basis."


Alliance Boots shares rose 0.58 percent to 1,033 pence on
London's FTSE 100 in afternoon trade Friday, which was below the
renewed bid offer. London's leading share index was down 0.37
percent to 6,301.10 points.


Alliance Boots was created last year by the British merger of
pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots.


In Britain, the group has 2,600 healthcare outlets, which include
1,500 community pharmacies. The combined group has more than
100,000 employees.

