

German department store operator KarstadtQuelle and the Jewish
Claims Conference said Friday they have settled a long-running
dispute over real estate seized by the Nazis in Berlin in the
1930s.


The retail giant has agreed to pay compensation to the heirs of
the Jewish Wertheim department store dynasty for a former
property on the bustling Potsdamer Platz square in the heart of
Berlin which was expropriated by the Nazis, KarstadtQuelle and
JCC said in separate statements.


The JCC is working to recover the assets of the Wertheim family,
many of whose heirs currently live in the United States.


KarstadtQuelle did not reveal in its statement how much it had
agreed to pay in compensation, but JCC put the sum at 88 million
euros (117 million dollars).


It was "one of the largest compensation payments to ever result
from Holocaust- related restitution," JCC said.


"This settlement is of tremendous importance. It brings to a
close one of the largest and most complicated Holocaust
restitution cases taken by the Claims Conference. It is a
symbolic recognition of a painful chapter in the history of the
Jews of Nazi-era Germany," said Claims Conference executive vice
president, Gideon Taylor.


The dispute centres on a parcel of land within the so-called
Lenne Triangle in the heart of Berlin.


The German government had given the land to KarstadtQuelle in
1991.


And KarstadtQuelle, which gained control of the Wertheim brand in
the early 1950s, subsequently sold the property to Otto Beisheim,
the founder of retail and distribution giant Metro for 145
million euros in 2000.


But last year, Germany's BARoV state asset authority awarded the
properties to the JCC, arguing that KarstadtQuelle was not the
legal owner of the properties when it sold them. And BARoV
approved the JCC's claim for compensation.


KarstadtQuelle had argued that it only gained control of the
Wertheim brand after World War II and could not be held liable
for what happened under the Nazis.


For its part, JCC argued that when the government awarded the
land to KarstadtQuelle in 1991, the legal status of the land had
not been established.


The negotiations between the Claims Conference and Karstadt took
almost a year and were initiated by former Chancellor Helmut
Kohl.


KarstadtQuelle chief executive Thomas Middelhoff said: "It was
our interest to do justice to our responsibility in terms of
history. I would like to thank the ex-Chancellor Helmut Kohl for
his mediation and the German Director of the Jewish Claims
Conference, Roman Haller, for the trusting meetings."


And he continued: "Of course we also had to act in the interests
of our shareholders and ensure that the future of the company was
not impaired with the risk of a high level of legal uncertainty.
For the company there is now legal certainty on the ongoing route
to economic consolidation and growth."


Previous media reports had suggested KarstadtQuelle might have to
pay damages of more than 145 million euros to the JCC, which
would have been a severe setback for the group's restructuring
efforts.


In midday trading on the Frankfurt stock exchange, KarstadtQuelle
shares were showing a loss of 0.06 euros or 0.22 percent at 27.60
euros, in line with the generally softer market.

