

The Tokyo stock market will take its lead from a key survey of
business sentiment over the coming week as investors wait
nervously to see whether confidence will turn lower as expected,
dealers said.


They said players would remain vigilant amid growing tensions
between Iran and Britain and uncertain prospects for the US
economy.


Over the week to March 30, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 index lost 192.96 points or 1.10 percent to 17,287.65,
giving back some of the previous week's 4.4 percent gain amid
jitters about the US housing sector.


The broader-based TOPIX index of all first-section companies
declined 28.33 points or 1.63 percent to 1,713.61, after rising
3.9 percent a week earlier.


The market's focus is now on the Bank of Japan's Tankan survey to
be released on Monday, with average market forecasts pointing to
a likely dip in the headline index in March from a two-year high
seen in December.


"The Tankan will set the tone for the week's trading," said
Hirokazu Fujiki, a strategist at Okasan Securities.


"If results are within expectations, players are likely to take
them as a positive lead as the market digests the volatile moves
on global markets over the past month," Fujiki said.


But he added that worries over the US economy and a row between
Britain and Iran over the capture of 15 British naval detainees
captured in the northern Gulf could prevent the market from
making much upward progress.


The market will also be tracking moves on the foreign exchange
market amid worries about the impact of any appreciation of the
yen on the earnings of Japanese exporters.


"Players are also concerned about a strong yen against the
dollar," said Toshikazu Horiuchi, an economist at Cosmo
Securities.


"If the dollar falls to the 115 yen level, a lot of export-
related issues could suffer foreign exchange losses, which may
affect their (profit) forecasts," Horiuchi said.


This weekend marks the start of the new fiscal year in Japan with
analysts mixed in their outlooks for the coming term.


Tetsuro Okada, senior economist at the Japan Research Institute,
said that the market was likely to struggle in the first quarter
of the fiscal year and the Nikkei 225 could even dip below 16,000
points before rebounding.


"The market is having a difficulty in gaining further. One of the
reasons is the lingering uncertainty about US sub-prime mortgage
loans."


But he added: "Both the Japanese and US economies are expected to
show the ability to continue a gradual recovery in the latter
half of the next fiscal year. So the market is likely to rebound
along with the economic recovery."

