

Australian David Hicks appeared before a US military tribunal
here on Friday to give sworn testimony about his training at an
Al-Qaeda camp as he awaits sentencing.


Hicks, 31, wore a blue suit rather than his khaki prison garb and
had cut his long hair short. On Monday, he pleaded pleaded guilty
to a charge of giving "material support to terrorism" in the
first case to be heard by the controversial military tribunals
set up try to "war on terror" detainees.


Hicks, whose case has become a cause celebre in Australia, must
affirm the facts underlying the charge before the judge, Colonel
Ralph Kohlmann, accepts his guilty plea.


A panel of at least five commissioned military officers will then
hand down a sentence, which Hicks will be allowed to serve in his
native Australia as part of an agreement between the two
countries.


Kohlmann said Friday that Hicks faces a maximum of seven years in
prison as part of a plea bargain agreement. The military
tribunals can mete out a maximum sentence of life in prison.


Prosecutors have said previously that the five years Hicks spent
at the detention camp at the US naval base in Guantanamo would be
taken into account for his sentencing.


Australia's conservative government heavily lobbied US President
George W. Bush's administration to expedite the Hicks case and
defuse an embarrassing political issue in an election year.


Born in Adelaide, the man dubbed the "Aussie Taliban" worked as a
ranch hand in the outback and a kangaroo skinner at a meat plant
before he ended up detained by the US-backed Northern Alliance
during the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


According to his charge sheet, Hicks spent time with ethnic
Albanian rebel forces in Kosovo and militants in Pakistan before
learning guerrilla warfare and mountain tactics at an Al-Qaeda
camp in Afghanistan.


During his time with Al-Qaeda, he met the "shoe bomber" Richard
Reid and told Osama bin Laden that the terror network lacked
material in English, prosecutors say.


Friday's hearing comes a day after US Defense Secretary Robert
Gates  questioned whether the trials would enjoy credibility in
the eyes of the world and called for the closure of the
Guantanamo detention camp.


Gates told lawmakers in Washington he had lobbied to have the
trials moved to the United States "because I felt that no matter
how transparent, no matter how open the trials, if they took
place in Guantanamo in the international community they would
lack credibility."


Gates's candid assessment of Guantanamo's dismal image abroad
marked a break with past policy and underlined the legal
uncertainty surrounding the tribunals and high-security prison.


The tribunals, or commissions, have been reconstituted under a
new law after the US Supreme Court declared an earlier version
unconstitutional. But human rights groups say the tribunals flout
the rules of regular US courts and deny the accused a fair trial.


Hicks was one of the first detainees to arrive at Guantanamo more
than five years ago, at a time when the inmates were described by
the US administration as "the worst of the worst."


But charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the enemy
were dropped against Hicks. Prosecutors settled for a plea deal
on a watered-down charge of providing "material support to
terrorism."

