

Britain vowed Friday to increasingly isolate Iran over its
detention of 15 naval personnel -- but warned that patience was
needed in managing the crisis.


Prime Minister Tony Blair voiced "disgust" at the latest video
footage of detainees, but stressed that the safety of the British
sailors and marines was the top priority for London.


"We've got to proceed as we are, which is to make sure that Iran
is increasingly isolated," he said.


But he added: "We've just got to pursue this with the necessary
firmness and determination but also patience ... The most
important thing is to make sure that our people are returned
safe."


The reaction came after new footage aired in Iran showed one of
the British soldiers seized at gunpoint last week confessing to
having trespassed into Iranian waters.


A Royal Navy serviceman identified as Nathan Thomas Sommers,
speaking on footage aired by Arabic-language Iranian television,
said: "I would like to apologise for entering your waters without
any permission."


The Foreign Office denounced the new video as "outrageous
propaganda" -- a condemnation echoed by Blair.


"I really don't know why the Iranian regime keep doing this. All
it does is enhance people's sense of disgust," Blair said,
speaking in Manchester, northeastern England.


Britain insists its sailors were on United Nations business in
Iraqi waters, while Iran says the service personnel trespassed
into its waters -- a dispute which has triggered eight days of
bitterness between the countries.


Meanwhile the Iranian embassy in London released a note sent from
its foreign ministry to Britain's embassy in Tehran.


Although it condemned the "illegal act" of entering its waters,
the letter did not contain any demands for an apology, nor
address Britain's demands for consular access and details of the
detainees' whereabouts.


But Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, speaking at a European
Union meeting in Germany, voiced concern at the note.


"We have been looking for a way out from the very beginning. I
wish I saw any sign that this is what Iran is trying to do,"
Beckett told journalists on the sidelines of a meeting of EU
foreign ministers in Bremen.


Britain is frustrated in particular because Iran, after initially
pledging to release the sole female detainee earlier in the week,
changed its mind after London took the case to the UN Security
Council on Thursday.


Servicewoman Faye Turney appeared in a previous broadcast and
analysts pored over a letter apparently from the 26-year-old to
her parliamentary representative.


Paul Beaver, a leading defence expert, said Iran was winning the
"propaganda war" with Britain and said to expect further footage
or letters.


"What they are doing is managing the propaganda war really well
-- and they are winning quite nicely, I would say, at the
moment," he said.


"They have got everyone's attention. They are clearly getting
things out, using the girl because they know in the West that's a
soft spot. I don't like it but I think they're doing very well."


He said Turney's letter was written in "very strange English",
could have been translated from Farsi.


In it, she stressed how nice her captors were and seemingly asked
why Britain had allowed its sailors to stray into Iranian waters.


The fact that she called for British troops to be withdrawn from
Iraq suggested it was written under duress, Beaver added.


"She knows that as a serving member of the armed forces she has
no public opinion on that. That's the standard way everyone looks
at it in the military," he explained.

