

As it stands, China's hopes of an unprecedented Olympic podium in
track cycling currently lie with women's sprint star Shuang Guo.


But in 17 months time, the medal odds could look decidedly better
for the hosts of the 2008 Beijing Olympics and it could be thanks
to one of the sport's biggest legends.


Former four-time Olympic champion Daniel Morelon, who also
amassed seven sprint world titles during his reign in the sixties
and seventies, is the man who could change China's track
fortunes.


The Frenchman, a former coach of five-time consecutive women's
sprint world champion Felicia Ballanger, swapped a post with one
of two national set-ups in France to work with the Chinese five
months ago.


There's work to be done up to and beyond Beijing if China are to
join Britain, France and Australia in becoming a track world
power.


But Morelon is confident that the Asian giant's "well-built"
athletes can step up to the mark.


"For the position they are in, China are doing not too badly," he
told AFP here at the world track cycling championships.


"There's no national set-up below senior level, and it is totally
different from France where the best riders are picked out when
they're in their early teens and primed to compete in the junior
world championships.


"China hasn't got any of that yet, so they're naturally coming
into this sport with a bit of a handicap.


"But I think in the future that's all going to change. They've
got great potential and with two velodromes in Beijing they're
starting to get the facilities."


Having a modern velodrome in Manchester has worked wonders with
the British team, which in recent years has added major sprint
silverware to its more traditional haul from the pursuit events.


However Morelon's wealth of knowledge in everything from the
logistics of running a successful team to the tactics of winning
a sprint is what is being sought.


Guo is currently China's best Olympic hope, and goes into the
women's sprint competition on Saturday having won bronze last
year, when she also came third in the keirin.


With on-form Briton Victoria Pendleton, reigning champion
Natallia Tsylinskaya of Belarussia and Australian ace Anna Meares
to contend with, Morelon admits the 21-year-old Guo has a fight
on her hands.


"She's got what it takes to win a world championship gold," he
added.


"The last time out she was third, hopefully she's improved from
last year but it's not going to be easy here."


Winning the sprint comes down to two main ingredients.


"You have to go really fast, but also have a well-developed
tactical sense.


"But going fast is crucial, especially at the start of the
competition if you want to avoid coming up against bigger rivals
later on.


"But if she (Guo) makes the podium, it will be a very good result
for us."


China have a total of 12 athletes here, a result in itself and a
positive sign for the future.


And Morelon hopes his achievements as both rider and coach
benefit them further.


"The Chinese know all about me, and Felicia Ballanger. I suppose
you could say that's why I'm here!" he added.


"They're committed to making big improvements, but they have to
get over the mindset of being amateur.


"They haven't reached the stage yet where they're really thinking
in professional terms. But they've got the means. As far as I'm
concerned they're going in the right direction."

