

Australian Libby Lenton swam the second fastest time in history
to win the women's world 100-metres freestyle crown and claim her
third gold medal at the world championships Friday.


Lenton fought back from two below-par swims in the 4x200m relay
and 50m butterfly to equal the championship record of 53.40
seconds set by Natalie Coughlin in the semi-finals in the fastest
women's sprint field assembled.


The former world record holder's personal best time has only been
bettered by current world record holder Britta Steffen of Germany
(53.30).


Lenton, who was emotional and on the verge of tears as she
climbed out of the pool before her home crowd, out-touched
Marleen Veldhuis of the Netherlands (53.70) with Steffen (53.74)
third.


"It was incredible, it was such a hot field out there. It's a
really special feeling to win this in front of my home crowd,"
Lenton said. "It's a race that's close to my heart and to be
world champion is just amazing.


"I knew a few girls would go out fast so I just focused on my own
race and put confidence in my back-end speed. I didn't panic as I
have in the past.


"I'm just blown away. The meet once again presented me with a few
challenges. I tried to do something different and I came up with
a great result."


Lenton won gold in the 100m butterfly on Monday and was a member
of the winning Australian 4x100m freestyle relay team on Sunday.


Veldhuis, who has been a finalist in the event at the last two
world championships, took out the first 50m under world record
pace, turning in 25.15.


Lenton was second, also under the world record split, and pulled
clear of the Dutch swimmer 20m from the wall.


Steffen, who broke Lenton's world record in winning the 100m
freestyle at last year's European Championships, settled for
bronze.


American Coughlin finished fourth in 53.87 with Athens Olympic
champion Jodie Henry of Australia sixth.


"I think it's my second best time, so I'm pretty happy," Coughlin
said. "I might have gone out a little fast.


"For a long time I had a hard time getting under 54 (seconds) and
now it's pretty normal."

