

Iran aired footage Friday of a British sailor "confessing" to
entering Iranian waters illegally as the standoff between Tehran
and London escalated a week after the capture of 15 navy
personnel.


Britain, which failed to win strong condemnation of Iran's
detention of the 15 at the UN Security Council on Thursday, said
it deplored the latest broadcast as "outrageous."


Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad called for Britain to
apologise over the incident and Tehran has so far refused to bow
to mounting international pressure to release the 14 men and one
woman seized in Gulf waters a week ago.


"I would like to apologise for entering your waters without any
permission," the Royal Navy serviceman identified as Nathan
Thomas Sommers was seen saying in an interview broadcast on the
Arabic-language Al-Alam television.


In the first footage of the group shown by the television station
on Wednesday, the only woman sailor in the group was also shown
saying that they had trespassed into Iranian waters.


"Using our military personnel for purposes of propaganda like
this is outrageous," a spokesman for the Foreign Office in London
said.


Britain has already frozen most diplomatic ties with Iran over
the crisis, a move Iran blamed for its decision not to free the
woman sailor Faye Turney as promised earlier this week.


The UN Security Council on Thursday expressed "grave concern" at
Iran's continued detention of the 15 although it failed to back
Britain and demand their immediate release.


The capture of the Britons has dramatically increased tensions
between the Islamic republic and the West which are already at
loggerheads over Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


They were seized in Gulf waters a day before the Security Council
adopted tough new sanctions on Iran for failing to freeze uranium
enrichment, a process at the centre of fears Tehran might be
secretly trying to build atomic weapons.


Ankara has been trying to mediate in the crisis, but on Friday
Ahmadinejad was quoted as telling Turkish Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan that Britain must apologise.


"In recent years British forces have violated international law
and crossed the Iranian border. Britain should apologise to
Iran," he was quoted as saying by state television.


However, a diplomatic note from Iran to British authorities
condemned the "illegal act" by the sailors, but did not call for
an apology, according to the text.


Iran "protests strongly against this illegal act in violating
Iranian territorial waters (and) underlines the responsibility of
the British government for the consequences," said the note
released by Iran's embassy in London.


Iran has however said it will examine "in a positive way" to a
Turkish request to free Faye Turney and for the Turkish
ambassador to see the Britons.


Tehran initially said the female sailor would be released "within
a day or two," but backed off on Thursday, citing Britain's
"incorrect" attitude after London announced the suspension of
ties and took the dispute to the United Nations.


After more than four hours of haggling and strong Russian
reservations, the Security Council voiced "grave concern" and
urged Tehran to allow "consular access" to the 15 Britons who are
being held in a secret location.


The council also called for "an early resolution of the problem,
including the release" of the 15.


But Britain had wanted the statement to call for the sailors'
"immediate release" and to note that they were in Iraqi waters
when detained.


Iran responded by accusing the Council of being "exploited" and
insisted the sailors "had violated the internationally recognised
border between Iran and Iraq."


Britain insists the 15 were in Iraqi waters carrying out routine
anti-smuggling operations when the were seized.


The Foreign Office put a brave face on the non-binding UN
statement.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
spokeswoman told AFP.


Britain is hoping to get a statement of support at an EU foreign
ministers meeting in Germany on Friday.


Germany, as current EU president has already expressed support
for Britain's case as has EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
and French President Jacques Chirac.


Both Britain and Iran have produced maps and global positioning
system (GPS) coordinates to back their cases over where the
sailors were when they were seized.


Britain has called the detentions an "ambush" and said Iran had
changed the GPS coordinates of the two British patrol boats to
make it appear they were in Iranian waters.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett told the Daily
Telegraph she believed the sailors' detention to be "clearly very
much like a cock-up" and not a conspiracy.


The United States, which has been conducting naval exercises in
the Gulf involving two nuclear-powered aircraft carriers,
reiterated its strong backing for its British ally.


"I think they need to be released and the international community
needs to say to Iran that they need to be released and that is
what we're doing,"  Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told US
television.


Iran meanwhile released the text of a second letter written by
Turney in which she was quoted as saying that British troops
should leave Iraq.


"Isn't it time to start withdrawing our forces from Iraq and let
them determine their own future?" Turney was quoted as saying in
the letter to her member of parliament.


London was quick to condemn the letter, with Beckett calling it
"outrageous and cruel".

