

EU foreign ministers, meeting in Germany, will send a message of
solidarity with Britain over Iran's detention of 15 British naval
personnel, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said
Friday.


"We will send a signal of solidarity on this issue and we will
try to find the language which conveys this," Steinemeier, whose
country holds the rotating EU presidency, said as he and his
fellow EU foreign ministers gathered for two days of talks in the
northern German town of Bremen.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett also voiced hopes for
a peaceful resolution to Iran's detention of 15 British naval
personnel, and said she hoped for a message of support from her
EU colleagues.


"Our indications are that our EU colleagues are completely aware
of the circumstances and are fully supportive and of course we
appreciate that.


"We hope certainly that a statement will come out from the EU
today," she told reporters as she arrived at the start of a two-
day meeting of EU foreign ministers.


"We would like to see this question peacefully resolved as
speedily as possible that's what we all want," she added.


Britain froze official contacts on Wednesday with Iran as the
dispute over 15 detained sailors intensified, with Prime Minister
Tony Blair vowing to "ratchet up" pressure on the Islamic state.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana called the Iranian action
"a big mistake" and called for the release of the sailor who were
captured on March 23.


"I don't understand. It's a big mistake. They should release the
soldiers immediately," he said as he entered the meeting.


"I have total confidence that the British boat was in Iraqi
waters," he added, alluding to Iran's' claims that the boat had
entered its waters.


Britain insists the 14 men and a woman were in Iraqi waters
carrying out routine anti-smuggling operations when they were
seized.


Meanwhile Iran said it will air an interview on Friday showing
one of the 15 captive British sailors confessing that they had
entered Iranian waters, as the diplomatic row entered its second
week.


The UN Security Council on Thursday expressed "grave concern" at
Iran's continued detention of the 15 who were seized in Gulf
waters last Friday although it failed to back Britain and demand
their immediate release, amid Russian reservations.


The informal EU meeting in Bremen is meant as a chance for the
ministers to discuss the top issues of the day without being
constrained by the need to reach agreed conclusions.


This one was scheduled to focus on Kosovo today and the Middle
East but "with the current situation with the British soldiers
there is a particular case," an EU diplomat said.


The initial British draft for the UN, circulated Wednesday, had
asked the council to "deplore the continuing detention by the
Government of Iran of 15 UK naval personnel" and to back "calls
for (their) immediate release".


In London, the Foreign Office put a brave face on the UN
developments.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
Foreign Office spokeswoman told AFP.

