

Increasingly embattled Iran has proposed a joint defence alliance
with Gulf Arab states, its foreign minister said in remarks
published by Arab papers on Friday.


Manouchehr Mottaki told the London-based Asharq Al-Awsat he had
discussed the idea with his Saudi counterpart, Prince Saud al-
Faisal, during an Arab League summit in Riyadh that ended on
Thursday.


"I met Prince Saud al-Faisal and our discussions touched on
several matters, including that of security cooperation and an
Iranian-Arab defence alliance between Tehran and states of the
Persian Gulf," he said.


"We are already linked to some of these states by bilateral
security cooperation accords. Now, we want to give them a
collective dimension," Mottaki was quoted as saying.


He did not say how Faisal reacted to the suggestion.


According to the proposal, "the alliance begins with Iran and
Gulf nations, before being broadened later to other Arab
countries," Mottaki was quoted as saying by the Saudi-owned
London-based Al-Hayat newspaper.


Iran is under rising international pressure over its nuclear
programme as well as the March 23 capture of 15 British navy
personnel for allegedly entering its waters.


Britain insists the 15 were in Iraqi waters on routine anti-
smuggling operations when they were seized.


Commenting on what has developed into a major diplomatic crisis,
Mottaki told Asharq Al-Awsat that a "British acknowledgment of
the error would help find a solution to the affair."


Politicising the matter only serves to "complicate it further,"
he added.


Washington has refused to exclude a military strike on Iran which
it says wants to develop nuclear weapons, an accusation
strenuously denied by Tehran.


Gulf nations have expressed their concern over the potentially
catastrophic environmental impact a military strike on Iranian
nuclear installations would have for the region.


In his remarks to Asharq al-Awsat, Mottaki reiterated that Iran
considers its nuclear programme to be a "legitimate activity" and
that it would be continued.

