

European Union foreign ministers began talks in Germany on Friday
on how to help Kosovo achieve supervised independence, although
the UN Security Council is yet to endorse the plan.


It was the EU's first major get-together since UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari presented the United Nations with his final proposals
for the breakaway Serbian province's future status.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, presiding over
the two days of talks, told reporters that the EU hopes the
Security Council will come to a decision "in the foreseeable
future and we hope this decision guarantees the security and the
stability in the western Balkans".


The ministers began talks in the northern German port town of
Bremen amid warnings that failure to secure Kosovo's future could
imperil security in the volatile Balkans.


The ministers will study a new paper by EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana and Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn on plans for
a massive EU civilian mission there.


Although Kosovo was the main item on Friday's agenda, Britain was
also seeking to use the meeting to obtain a message of solidarity
from its EU partners over the seizure of 15 British navy
personnel by Iran.


After over a year of fruitless talks between Serbian and Kosovar
authorities, Ahtisaari recommended this week that the Serbian
province be awarded "independence, supervised by the
international community".


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana warned Thursday that any
European Union failure to help Kosovo achieve its new status
could imperil security in the volatile Balkans.


"We do not have the right to fail. We are talking about the
stability of the Balkans," he told lawmakers at the European
Parliament in Brussels.


The EU has a key role to play in Kosovo under Ahtisaari's plan.
Most of the responsibility for ensuring the smooth transfer of
power from the UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to the province's
nascent institutions will fall to the EU, with NATO playing the
key security role.


Also an as-yet unnamed "EU special representative" would "oversee
the implementation of the settlement, and have some clearly
defined and reviewable executive powers".


The future presence from the EU's point of view would involve
some 1,300-1,500 international police, judges, prosecutors, and
customs officials based in Pristina.


The total cost to the whole international community of
supervising the move to independence is estimated at between
1.3-1.5 billion euros in the three years from 2008-2010 and one
issue for the EU foreign ministers is where will the money come
from.


Rehn said last week that he would ask in Bremen for EU member
countries and others to help fund the mission. The EU's executive
arm, the European Commission, sees Kosovo as a potential future
member.


The UN Security Council is set to debate Ahtisaari's plan next
month, and tensions are high in the Balkans region, with the
ethnic Albanians impatient for independence and Belgrade
determined to hold on to part of its territory.


Russia, which wields a Security Council veto, opposes Kosovan
independence and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said
Thursday that Ahtisaari "will fail" if he pursues his current
plan for the province.


However Steinmeier was steadfast in supporting the Ahtisaari
plan.


""We stand by the agreed European line and we continue to support
Mr Ahtisaari's line," Steinmeier, whose country holds the EU's
rotating presidency, told reporters as he entered the Bremen
meeting.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the large separatist-
minded ethnic Albanian majority.

