

Japan coach John Kirwan has put New Zealand-based 19-year-old
Kousei Ono in a four-way battle for the stand-off position in his
Rugby World Cup team.


The All Blacks legend announced a 40-man squad, including the New
Brighton player and 11 other newcomers, for Tests against South
Korea and Hong Kong in April and two non-cap games against the
Classic All Blacks in May.


The selection will form the basis for a 30-strong Japan squad for
the Pacific Nations Cup in June and the Rugby World Cup in France
in September, according to the Japan Rugby Football Union.


Ono, a Christchurch Boys High School graduate due to join the
Fukuoka Sanix Blues of Japan's Top League in April, was picked
along with other rival fly- halves Toshiaki Hirose, Eiji Ando and
New Zealand's James Arlidge.


Only Ando has been capped before. Two of the four are expected to
make the final 30 bound for France.


"It was important for us to say that this is the best team," said
Kirwan, 42, who helped New Zealand win the inaugural World Cup in
1987. "And I am pretty confident that this is the best team."


Kirwan, who became Japan coach in January on a two-year contract,
initially named 53 candidates for the squad last month but
injuries and fitness questions have forced 13 out.


But he said Daisuke Ohata was steadily recovering from an injury
to his right Achilles tendon and that the Kobe Steel back, 31,
who holds the world record for Test tries at 65, would be
welcomed back if he is fully fit.


"There are going to be some hard choices to make when the injured
players come back," said Kirwan. "And as a coach that is quite
pleasing. It's going to be hard to make this team and that is the
way it should be."


Apart from Arlidge, the 40-man squad includes four more New
Zealanders -- Bryce Robbins, Luke Thompson, Hare Makiri and Blair
Urlich. Urlich's eligibility is yet to be cleared by the
International Rugby Board.


Three Tongans are also among them -- Nataniela Oto and Luatangi
"Samurai" Vatuvei, both of whom have been naturalised as
Japanese, as well as Christian Loamanu.


The squad, captained by NEC No.8 Takuro Miuchi, will face South
Korea on April 22 and Hong Kong on April 29 in Tokyo. It will
then play All Blacks veterans on May 9 and 12 at home.


Kirwan is due to name his World Cup squad on June 25, a day after
Japan concludes its campaign in the Pacific Nations Cup.


Japan have set themselves a daunting task of two wins in France,
despite just one victory in 16 over the past five World Cups.


In a campaign spearheaded by rugby-loving former premier Yoshiro
Mori, Japan is also bidding to host the World Cup in 2015 after
narrowly losing out to New Zealand for the 2011 tournament.


Squad:


Forwards: Masahito Yamamoto (Toyota Motor), Tatsukichi Nishiura
(Coca Cola), Takahiro Sugiura (Fukuoka Sanix), Yuji Matsubara
(Kobe Steel), Mitsugu Yamamoto (Sanyo), Taku Inokuchi (Toshiba),
Ryo Yamamura (Yamaha Motor), Tomokazu Soma (Sanyo), Hitoshi Ono
(Toshiba), Takanori Kumagae (NEC), Yuji Kitagawa (Kanto Gakuen
University), Luatangi Vatuvei (Toshiba), Tsuyoshi Sato (Sanyo),
Luke Thompson (Kintetsu), Yasunori Watanabe (Toshiba), Hajime
Kiso (Yamaha Motor), Ryota Asano (NEC), Hare Makiri (Fukuoka
Sanix), Takuro Miuchi (NEC, capt), Blair Urlich (Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Sagamihara), Takamichi Sasaki (Suntory)


Backs: Koichi Ohigashi (NEC), Yuki Yatomi (Waseda University),
Tomoki Yoshida (Toshiba), Eiji Ando (NEC), James Arlidge (NTT),
Toshiaki Hirose (Toshiba), Kousei Ono (New Brighton/NZL),
Hirotoki Onozawa (Suntory), Nataniela Oto (Toshiba), Shotaro
Onishi (Yamaha Motor), Bryce Robins (Ricoh), Yuta Imamura (Waseda
University), Seiichi Shimomura (Sanyo), Christian Loamanu
(Saitama Institute of Technology), Koji Taira (Suntory), Kosuke
Endo (Toyota Motor), Tomoki Kitagawa (Sanyo), Goshi Tachikawa
(Toshiba), Go Aruga (Suntory)

