

Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said Friday his country
would discuss its hosting of a controversial US missile shield
with Moscow which is opposed to it, but defended plans to go
ahead with the project.


"The Czech Republic has the right to sign a bilateral agreement
with the Americans as have done several European countries such
as the United Kingdom," Topolanek said.


"However, we will enter consultations about the issue not only
with our NATO partners but also with Russia," he added at a news
conference with Hungarian counterpart Ferenc Gyurcsany at the end
of a two-day visit.


Topolanek said on Wednesday Prague would begin negotiations with
Washington over hosting part of the US missile shield in a move
likely to boost growing opposition at home.


His announcement was welcomed by the US embassy in Prague but
opposition to the US plans have been growing in the Czech
Republic since late last year.


According to a recent poll by the official agency, CVVM, 61
percent of Czechs are against it.


Opponents have accused the prime minister of "excessive
servility" to the US and say the project undermines national
sovereignty. They also worry that it would make the Czech
republic a target.


Washington wants to build a radar system in the Czech Republic
and put missiles in neighbouring Poland to defend against what it
says are potential attacks from "rogue" states such as Iran.


In Budapest Topolanek said he had agreed to holding talks with
his NATO partners to allow for a possible pairing of the US
shield and a similar future defence system that could be set up
by NATO.


Gyurcsany said that the US missile shield in the Czech Republic
and Poland would "not only protect these two countries but also
the vast majority of Europe".


Hungary as well as the Czech Republic and Poland are new members
of the European Union and NATO.


Topolanek had said Wednesday that Prague "recognises the risks
for which the anti-missile base should be built," and added that
he "would strive for the anti-missile defence system to be
integrated in the future defence framework of the North Atlantic
Alliance."


In Poland the government has insisted the base is a purely
bilateral issue between Warsaw and Washington.


Austria and NATO members France, Germany, Slovakia and Spain have
all  expressed reservations about the project which the Americans
want operational by 2011.


The US plan has provoked a furious reaction from Moscow, which
sees the shield proposal as a threat to its national security.
Russian President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow's opposition
in a telephone call to his US counterpart George Bush on
Wednesday.

