

Discount shoppers the world over were put on guard Friday after
the retail group TJX disclosed that some 45.6 million credit and
debit card numbers were stolen by hackers in 2005 and 2006.


The company, which operates TJ Maxx and other stores in the
United States and TK Maxx in Britain and Ireland, also said
Thursday some 455,000 customers may have had personal information
compromised in the massive data breach.


The retailer made the disclosure in a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, expanding on its announcement earlier
this year.


It said a majority of the data may not be useful because it was
encrypted, had incomplete credit card numbers or were from cards
that were expired at the time of the breach between July 2005 and
December 2006.


But Avivah Litan, of the consulting firm Gartner Inc told the
Boston Globe: "It's the biggest card heist over. It's done
considerable damage."


The company said it learned on December 18, 2006 of "suspicious
software" on its computer systems and later discovered "that
there was strong reason to believe that our computer systems had
been intruded upon."


The company subsequently notified law enforcement in the United
States, Canada and Britain, and later determined that the
intrusions may have dated back as far as July 2005.


Several lawsuits are pending relating to what some have described
as the biggest financial data breach in history.


Until now, the biggest data breach was the 2005 theft of 40
million credit cards numbers from the servers of the payment
processor CardSystems Solutions.


According to US media, last week police arrested six people who
had used credit card numbers stolen from TJX to rack up purchases
of one million dollars.


Data theft has increased in recent months along with an increase
in computer use. According to the technology security company
Symantec, Internet-based theft of credit card numbers and
passcodes jumped in 2006.


In the second half of the year, Symantec found some six million
computers were infected with suspect software. The company said
computer use skyrocketed 29 percent over the second half of 2005.


Symantec said the industry has developed into an underground
cyber economy, in which hackers and organized crime groups trade
in stolen data.


A stolen credit card number, along with its security code, sells
for between one and six dollars, the company said. More complete
personal information, including a bank account number, date of
birth and social security number sells for between 14 and 18
dollars, according to Symantec.

