

Australian David Hicks will appear before a US military judge on
Friday to confirm under oath how he trained at an Al-Qaeda camp
as he awaits sentencing by a military tribunal in Guantanamo.


Hicks, 31, pleaded guilty on Monday to a charge of giving
"material support to terrorism" in the first case to be heard by
the controversial military tribunals set up try to "war on
terror" detainees.


Hicks, whose case has become a cause celebre in Australia, must
affirm the facts underlying the charge before the military judge,
Colonel Ralph Kohlmann, accepts his guilty plea.


A panel of at least five commissioned military officers will then
hand down a sentence, which Hicks will be allowed to serve out in
his native Australia as part of an agreement between the two
countries.


Prosecutors say the five years Hicks has spent in Guantanamo will
be taken into account for his sentence. And Australian media,
citing sources in Canberra, say Hicks may be required to serve an
additional one to three years behind bars.


Australia's conservative government heavily lobbied President
George W. Bush's administration to expedite the Hicks case and
defuse an embarrassing political issue in an election year.


Born in Adelaide, the man dubbed the "Aussie Taliban" worked as a
ranch hand in the outback and a kangaroo skinner at a meat plant
before he ended up detained by the US-backed Northern Alliance
during the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


According to his charge sheet, Hicks spent time with ethnic
Albanian rebel forces in Kosovo and militants in Pakistan before
learning guerrilla warfare and mountain tactics at an Al-Qaeda
camp in Afghanistan.


During his time with Al-Qaeda, he met the "shoe bomber" Richard
Reid and told Osama bin Laden that the terror network lacked
material in English, prosecutors say.


Friday's hearing comes a day after US Defense Secretary Robert
Gates  questioned if the trials would enjoy credibility in the
eyes of the world and called for the closure of the Guantanamo
detention camp.


Gates told lawmakers in Washington he had lobbied to have the
trials moved to the United States "because I felt that no matter
how transparent, no matter how open the trials, if they took
place in Guantanamo in the international community they would
lack credibility."


Gates's candid assessment of Guantanamo's dismal image abroad
marked a break with past policy and underlined the legal
uncertainty surrounding the tribunals and high-security prison.


The tribunals, or commissions, have been reconstituted under a
new law after the US Supreme Court declared an earlier version
unconstitutional. But human rights groups say the tribunals flout
the rules of regular US courts and deny the accused a fair trial.


Hicks was one of the first detainees to arrive at Guantanamo more
than five years ago, at a time when the inmates were described by
the US administration as "the worst of the worst."


But charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the enemy
were dropped against Hicks. Prosecutors settled for a plea deal
on a watered-down charge of providing "material support to
terrorism."

