

Turkey's bid to mediate in the escalating crisis between its
eastern neighbour Iran and NATO ally Britain reflects Ankara's
ambitions to act as a bridge between East and West, analysts said
Friday.


The Turkish government moved quickly to try and defuse the tense
stand-off between Tehran and London that followed Iran's seizure
of 15 British sailors and marines a week ago, but observers here
said its role would be limited.


"As a country that has the confidence of both (Britain and Iran),
Turkey is trying to ease the crisis, but it can only get limited
results as both sides harden their positions," said Arzu
Celalifer, a researcher at the Ankara-based think-tank USAK.


Huseyin Bagci, an international relations expert, agreed: "Turkey
is playing only a minor role. Even if it achieves some success,
it will be equally minor."


Bagci suggested that Iran was pursuing a policy of "deliberately
humiliating" Britain.


"Iran is unlikely to respond to any intervention that aims to
defuse the crisis because it is actually trying to boost its
standing in the Muslim world as a country capable of defying the
West," he said.


Leading Turkey's effort is Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
who has spoken to the Iranian president and foreign minister to
secure the release of the sole woman among the detained British
personnel and to obtain access for Turkish diplomats to the
captives.


Erdogan's initiative followed talks between Turkish leaders and
British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett in Ankara on Tuesday.


Although Tehran initially announced Wednesday that it would
release servicewoman Faye Turney, it backed off Thursday after
London decided to suspend all official bilateral business and
took the crisis to the United Nations.


Ahmadinejad promised Erdogan in a telephone conversation late
Thursday that Iran would reconsider Turney's release, a Turkish
official said.


After years of animosity over accusations that the Islamic regime
in Iran is seeking to undermine Turkey's secular system, Ankara
and Tehran have markedly mended fences in recent years -- brought
closer notably by the turmoil in their common neighbour Iraq.


Wary of fresh military conflict at its doorstep, Ankara has also
lobbied Tehran for a peaceful resolution of the international row
over its nuclear programme.


In recent years, Turkey has shown a marked increase in interest
in the Middle East, where its secular system, traditionally pro-
Western orientation and close ties with Israel long made it the
black sheep of the Islamic fold.


With its bid for European Union membership shrouded in
uncertainty, Turkey intensified its efforts to bring Israel and
the Palestinians closer, improved ties with former foe Syria and
boosted economic ties with Arab countries.


"Turkey's attitudes have changed. It has adopted a position that
looks both East and West," said Beril Dedeoglu, a professor of
international relations at Istanbul's Galatasaray University.


The turning point, Celalifer said, was a stunning rejection by
the parliament in Ankara of a US request to use Turkish territory
to open a northen front in the 2003 invasion of Iraq.


Greater interest in the fate of fellow Muslim nations in the
ranks of Erdogan's Islamist rooted, conservative Justice and
Development Party and its electorate has also been a factor in
defining Ankara's new stance, the analysts said.


They agreed that Erdogan also has in mind the general elections
scheduled for November, and that success in persuading Iran to
soften its stance would score points at home.


"A leader who has won the trust of the Muslim world will
certainly win the trust of Turkish voters," Dedeoglu said.

