

The US Census Bureau provided the US Secret Service with
information identifying individual Japanese Americans during
World War II, according to a study released which claims to
undercut decades of denials by Bureau officials.


The agency supplied the names and addresses of 79 Japanese
Americans living in the Washington area to Secret Service agents
investigating reports of threats on the life of then president
Franklin Roosevelt in August 1943, the paper said.


The probe had been prompted by a report in the Los Angeles Times
in June, 1943, that a Japanese American man who was being
evacuated to an internment camp in California said "we ought to
have enough guts to kill Roosevelt."


The agent rapidly concluded that there was no threat to the
president. For one thing, the man who allegedly made the remark
in 1942 had been committed to a psychiatric unit for treatment of
schizophrenia in October of the same year, according to the
agent's reports to his superiors.


Nevertheless, the agent's inquiries into the Japanese American
community in the capital continued through the fall of 1944,
according to Margo Anderson, professor of history and urban
studies at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and her
colleague, William Seltzer, a senior research scholar in the
Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Fordham University in
New York.


The Bureau has previously acknowledged that it shared demographic
data on Japanese Americans from the 1940 census with US
authorities during WWII.


In 2000, the Bureau's then director, Kenneth Prewitt, issued a
formal apology when it emerged that the agency had provided
statistical data that was used to round up Americans of Japanese
ancestry for internment during WWII.


"The historical record is clear that senior Census Bureau staff
proactively cooperated with the internment, and that census
tabulations were directly implicated in the denial of civil
rights to citizens of the United States who happened also to be
of Japanese ancestry," he said.


But both Prewitt and other senior officials have repeatedly
denied that the agency ever gave up what statisticians call
micro-level data, or information that could identify individuals,
the researchers said.


At issue is not whether the agency violated the law: the Second
War Powers Act of 1942 authorized such disclosures even though
the census data was gathered two years earlier under a pledge of
confidentiality.


But "ethical questions linger about these World War II
disclosures," said the two scholars, urging the agency to disavow
its denials of the disclosures and to set the Bureau's historical
record straight.


The case has important implications for the upcoming 2010 census
because the Census Bureau depends on public trust to succeed in
its mission, they noted.


A spokeswoman for the Census Bureau said she could not comment on
these latest allegations.


"We have not had the opportunity to review the sources in the
archives," said Christa Jones, chief of the office of analysis
and executive support.


She added that the laws currently on the books stipulate that
census data can only be used for statistical purposes and not for
enforcement or administrative purposes.


"The Census Bureau is fully committed to protecting the data we
collect. The guarantee of confidentiality is very important in
everything we do."

