

A Sri Lanka court blocked access for an internationally
supervised team probing grave human rights abuses as the island
faced mounting criticism for extra- judicial killings, police
said on Friday.


Colombo's chief magistrate refused permission on Thursday for the
Special Presidential Commission investigating high-profile
assassinations and massacres to have access to court records, a
police official said.


"We made an application to court on behalf of the presidential
commission, but the chief magistrate ordered that the records
should not be made available to them or anyone else," a police
official said.


The International Independent Group of Eminent Persons (IIGEP)
which monitors the investigations, said it was stunned by the
ruling which went against a mandate given by Sri Lanka's
president to allow the commission unrestricted access to court
records, individuals or witnesses.


The IIGEP includes top experts and professionals from Australia,
Britain, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands and the United States, as
well as the European Union and UN High Commissioner for Human
Rights.


It was set up by Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse, who
invited governments and international organisations to nominate
individuals to ensure that local investigators follow
internationally accepted rights standards.


The commission and IIGEP are expected to function initially for a
period of 18 months probing 15 high-profile cases, including last
August's massacre of 17 local employees of the French charity
ACF.


"We were very surprised by the court ruling," an IIGEP official
said. "We hope the government will initiate action to allow the
independent investigators full access."


The court has asked the presidential commission to file any
objections on July 23.


The commission had wanted copies of evidence recorded so far and
reports relating to the police investigation into the
assassination of former foreign minister Lakshman Kadirgamar in
August 2005.


Activists have previously dismissed the establishment of the
IIGEP as a government ploy to deflect mounting international
censure over growing abductions, disappearances and extra-
judicial killings.

