

Islamic schools in Pakistan are training militants and supporting
violent extremist groups despite a supposed government crackdown,
posing a threat to international security, a think tank said
Friday.


President Pervez Musharraf, a key US ally, promised in 2002 to
reform Pakistan's madrassas but has failed due to his
government's reliance on the support of religious parties, the
International Crisis Group said.


In a report focusing on the violence-prone southern city of
Karachi, the Brussels-based group said seminaries in the city
have trained and dispatched jihadi fighters to Afghanistan and
Indian-administered Kashmir.


"The government's inaction has allowed well-financed networks of
madrassas, sectarian parties, and militant groups to flourish in
Karachi and elsewhere in Pakistan," said Samina Ahmad, the
group's South Asia project director.


"Not all madrassas in the city are active centres of jihadi
militancy, but even those without direct links to violence
promote an ideology that provides religious justification for
such attacks."


Military ruler Musharraf pledged to register all madrassas and
expel all foreign students in July 2005, after it emerged that
two of the suicide bombers who struck the London transport system
may have stayed at Pakistani seminaries.


The International Crisis Group however said that a network of
madrassas in Karachi and elsewhere, most of them unregulated,
continue to support banned sectarian and jihadi groups.


It warned that they posed a "significant threat to domestic,
regional and international security."


The group urged the international community to press Musharraf to
fulfil his commitments, "in particular to enforce genuine
controls on the madrassas and allow free and fair national
elections in 2007."


It said the world should also shift the focus of its donor aid
from helping the government's "ineffectual" efforts to reform the
religious schools to improving the weak public school sector.


"So long as the military continues to rely on the mullahs to
retain power, madrassas and the violent extremism they encourage
will become ever more powerful in Pakistani society, undermining
the security of the state and its citizens," said Robert Templer,
the group's Asia programme director.

