

Two explosions were heard Friday near the UNESCO-listed Serbian
Orthodox monastery of Visoki Decani in western Kosovo, NATO-led
peacekeepers (KFOR) said.


A KFOR unit that is tasked with guarding the monastery "heard two
explosions" and went promptly to the spot, Spanish Captain Garcia
Blanco told AFP.


"Investigations are ongoing ... in order to identify the place
and origin" of the blasts, he said, adding that there were no
reports of injuries or material damage.


Quoting a bishop from Decani, the Serbian government-run KiM
information service said one mortar grenade was used in the
attack on the area surrounding the 14th century monastery.


"The attackers probably wanted to intimidate us and send a
threatening message both to the monks and NATO peacekeepers in
this critical political moment for Kosovo firing only one
grenade," said Bishop Teodosije.


The latest blast followed three bomb attacks in Kosovo's tense
Serb-populated north during the past week.


They come amid international community efforts to resolve the
future status of Kosovo, a southern province of Serbia that has
been run by the United Nations since its 1998-1999 war.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999 when
an 11-week NATO bombing campaign forced Serbian armed forces out
of the province, ending their brutal crackdown against the ethnic
Albanian population.


Its 90-percent ethnic Albanian majority is seeking independence,
a demand strongly opposed by the Serbian government. Most Serbs
consider the province the cradle of their history, culture and
religion.


UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari earlier this week recommended
the UN Security Council grant Kosovo internationally supervised
independence.


After ending a year of talks between Serbian and Kosovo Albanian
representatives, Ahtisaari said the two sides were "diametrically
opposed" and presented his own proposals to resolve the issue.


His plan to give Kosovo self-governance, a constitution, flag and
anthem has been backed by the European Union, Kosovo Albanian
leaders, NATO and the United States.


But it has been rejected by Belgrade as a violation of Serbia's
territorial integrity.


Serbia hopes its sometime ally Russia will block any resolution
granting Kosovo independence before the UN Security Counci, which
is expected to start debating Ahtisaari's proposals next month.

