

SMS text messaging has been banned in Cambodia over the weekend
amid fears of political unrest as the country votes for local
government administrators, election officials said Friday.


The announcement came on the final day of campaigning before the
Sunday polls, as thousands of ruling Cambodian People's Party
(CPP) supporters rallied in the capital Phnom Penh, snarling
traffic for hours.


"Most people are using cell phones which can receive campaign
messages from political parties. On these two days, the
environment must be quiet, according to the law," the National
Election Committee said in a statement.


But election monitors said they were concerned the ban would
prevent observers from communicating with each other on election
day.


Nearly 14,000 foreigners and Cambodians are expected to be
deployed throughout the country during the polling period to
monitor the vote.


"It is unreasonable to ban SMS during the election. I've never
heard of this before," said Koul Panha of the election watchdog
Comfrel.


"SMS is not related to elections," he added.


Cambodians vote Sunday in local elections that will likely see
the CPP further tighten its grip on power ahead of next year's
national polls.


Some 12 political parties have fielded candidates for commune
councils -- small administrative bodies that govern rural
villages or city neighbourhoods.


But CPP is expected to take most of the country's 1,621 communes
in a show of its dominance ahead of 2008 general elections.


Although there have been complaints of intimidation and a few
reported political killings, this year's campaign has seen little
of the violence that marred previous elections.


Hundreds were killed in the months surrounding the 2002 commune
elections and hundreds more during the national polls in both
1998 and 2003.


In the biggest show of strength yet by any political party, CPP
members by the thousands took to the streets Friday morning,
jamming Phnom Penh's main thoroughfares with hundreds of trucks
and cars trailing party banners.


Police struggled to keep order as the enormous convoys rumbled
through intersections, sometimes into oncoming traffic, while
huge loudspeakers urged voters to allow the CPP "to develop your
commune."


Deteriorating roads and security remain the biggest complaints in
urban neighbourhoods, while poor healthcare continues to plague
rural communities.


Cambodia held its first commune council elections in 2002. Prior
to that, commune officials were appointed by the government and
had remained largely unchanged since the early 1980s.

