

Nepal's main parties and Maoists were holding crunch talks Friday
on forming a historic new government that includes the former
rebels and cements the nation's peace process.


"Talks between the leaders of the eight parties are ongoing, but
we have not yet reached a conclusion," Deputy Prime Minister Amik
Shrchan told AFP.


The unveiling of a new cabinet would be a major step forward for
the impoverished Himalayan nation's peace drive, which is aimed
at bringing the Maoists into mainstream politics after their
deadly, decade-long insurgency.


"There's a high possibility of the formation of the interim
government by this evening," Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat
said ahead of the meeting.


The announcement of a new cabinet has been expected for several
weeks, but officials said the seven parties in central government
and the Maoists had yet to reach full agreement on who should
hold key portfolios.


Media reports also said the stumbling blocks included a decision
on whether to have one or three deputy prime ministers. Prime
Minister Girija Prasad Koirala has proposed three to keep all
sides happy, the Maoists said.


"The eight parties are yet to sort out differences on the
ministerial portfolios but today's (Friday's) meeting is expected
to lead to a consensus on these issues," Mahat said.


The Maoists joining the government "is a step forward in
mainstreaming the Maoists, and bringing them into the
constitutional process," he added.


The Maoists and seven-party government signed a peace deal in
November 2006. The former rebels, who pledged to end violence and
register their army with the United Nations, have already been
given seats in a new parliament.


Leaders from the seven parties in government and the Maoists
arrived at the prime minister's residence Friday to hammer out
the final details of the new cabinet's structure.


"The meeting... is expected to finalise the agreement on the
structure of the interim government, which is likely to be formed
today (Friday)," Maoist spokesman Krishna Bahadur Mahara said.


Koirala "seemed optimistic about resolving all differences over
the distribution of the ministerial portfolios," said Mahara.


As part of the landmark peace deal, the rebels have registered
just over 31,000 Maoist fighters and 3,430 weapons with a UN
monitoring team, a key part of the peace accord.


But despite renouncing violence with the signing of the peace
deal, the rebels have been accused of continuing to extort cash
and using violence.


Earlier this month, Nepal's business community staged a three-day
strike in protest at the Maoist abduction and beating of a
hotelier.


At least 13,000 people were killed in the Maoist's decade-long
Maoist "people's war" that also severely damaged the nation's
already fragile economy.


The new cabinet will have the task of overseeing crucial
elections slated for June, when the country will vote to elect a
constituent assembly.


This assembly will rewrite the country's constitution and decide
on the fate of embattled King Gyanendra and the monarchy as a
whole.


The Maoists are lobbying hard for the country to be declared a
republic.


Gyanendra was forced to relinquish direct rule after months of
mass protests organised by an alliance of the political parties
and the Maoists.

