

The Otago Highlanders kept their Super 14 rugby semi-final hopes
alive Friday after repulsing a late charge by Central Cheetahs
for a 21-17 victory here.


With eight minutes remaining the Highlanders, previously
languishing at 10th place on the table, were cruising towards
victory with a 21-10 lead after dominating possession and
territory.


But sustained pressure by the South Africans saw flanker Kabamba
Floors score as the forward pack drove over the Highlanders'
line, keeping the visitors' hopes alive.


They continued to camp in the Highlanders' 22 in the dying
minutes and only desperate defence kept the Cheetahs out. Twice
in the last 10 minutes fiesty Highlanders scrumhalf Jimmy Cowan
featured in forcing the opposition into touch right on the try
line.


"It's a real confidence booster for us. The boys showed a lot of
character in that last five minutes," Highlanders captain Josh
Blackie said afterwards.


"The Cheetahs are one of the better attacking South African
sides, so we did very well to stop them tonight."


The teams finished with two tries apiece in a match where defence
dominated.


The home side failed to make full use of a two-to-one dominance
of both territory and possession in the first spell, with both
sides finishing with a try each at halftime.


Two penalties from flyhalf Nick Evans were the difference as the
Highlanders went into the break with a 11-7 lead.


But a lack of ideas seemed to afflict the New Zealand side in the
opening half and they failed to make the most of their dominance.


The return of All Blacks Carl Hayman and Anton Oliver to the
starting front row for the first time this season gave the
Highlanders a solid platform up front and lock James Ryan was
outstanding in the lineouts and in loose play.


The Highlanders scored the first try in the 14th minute with
lanky lock Kane Thompson being on hand on the wing to finish
after Evans sparked an attack with a beautifully weighted chip
kick.


But the Cheetahs defied the run of play to hit back in the 23rd
minute after winning a turnover on the Highlanders' 22. The
forwards nearly went over on the left hand side before the ball
sped through the backline for Eddie Fredericks to go over
unopposed on the right wing.


In the second spell Highlanders right wing Lucky Mulipola scored
their second try, taking the final pass to touch down after his
chip kick opened up the Cheetahs defence.

