

Asian stocks closed mostly higher on Friday following Wall Street
rise and easing concerns over the US economy but gains were
capped by Middle East tension which has driven up the price of
oil.


Wall Street firmed Thursday after an upward revision to US
economic growth helped ease fears about a slowdown and this had
most Asia Pacific markets off to a positive start before some
bargain hunters stepped in.


Rising oil prices also weighed on sentiment amid the week-old
standoff between London and Tehran over 15 naval detainees which
has sent world oil prices surging to a six-month high -- with
warnings they could rise further.


As a result, Tokyo gained just 0.14 percent, Taipei was up 0.46
percent, Seoul gained 0.11 percent and Sydney was 0.57 percent
higher.


Bangkok was up 0.31 percent in nervous trade ahead of protests
against the military installed government while Singapore closed
flat and Shanghai ended a string of record runs by easing 0.42
percent.


TOKYO: Share prices closed slightly higher after an upward
revision to US economic growth which helped lift Wall Street
overnight.


Dealers said investors cashed in most of their early gains,
turning cautious ahead of Monday's key Tankan survey of Japanese
business sentiment after a raft of domestic data broadly met
market expectations.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 23.71 points to 17,287.65. Volume fell
to 1.94 billion shares from 2.34 billion on Thursday.


Dealers said trading had been thin as the end of the fiscal year
at the weekend approached, especially in view of uncertainty
about the outlook for the US economy.


"The Tankan business sentiment survey will draw the market's
attention on Monday but investors are more focussed on possible
profit warnings by US companies next week and how that might
affect the US stock market," said Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist
at Shinko Securities.


Analysts expect next week's Tankan central bank survey to show a
modest deterioration in business confidence among Japan's major
manufacturers, mainly due to nervousness about the health of the
US economy.


Investors were mulling a mixed bag of Japanese data which showed
industrial output down 0.2 percent in February from January but
up 2.6 percent year-on- year.


The unemployment rate held steady at 4.0 percent in February
while core consumer prices were down 0.1 percent, the first
decline for 10 months.


Mitsui Fudosan rose 70 yen to 3,460.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.11 percent lower, though off
their lows, as profit-taking eased toward the end of trade, but
with caution remaining over rising crude oil prices.


Dealers said select property and financial stocks began drawing
some interest again and helped limit the market's overall losses.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 20.85 points at 19,800.93.
Turnover was 45.8 billion Hong Kong dollars (5.87 billion US).


"There was a bit of profit-taking pressure today following gains
yesterday, with some investors also trimming positions ahead of
the weekend," Kenny Tang, associate director at Tung Tai
Securities, said.


"I believe the market is worried about further consolidation in
the week ahead and are sidelined by uncertainties over the
performance of markets overseas," he added.


He said focus next week will be on fresh US economic data and
individual local companies scheduled to report their earnings
results for last year.


Cheung Kong was up 0.10 at 98.90.


SEOUL: Share prices closed slightly higher, with institutional
investors playing it safe and selling ahead of the weekend and
upcoming corporate earnings releases.


Dealers said the market got off to a firm start following Wall
Street's overnight gains but the early interest weakened in late
trade.


Steel makers were in focus, supported by a strong earnings
outlook and continued global consolidation in the industry.


The KOSPI index closed up 1.60 points at 1,452.55. Volume was 283
million shares worth 3.2 trillion won (3.4 billion dollars).


"The upside momentum was not very strong, compared to Wall
Street's advance, due to lack of strong buying," said Kyobo
Securities analyst Lee Woo-Hyun.


He noted the institutional investment resources have shrunk, with
more capital flowing into offshore funds.


Samsung Electronics slid 6,000 won to 563,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.46 percent higher as the lead set
by Wall Street's overnight gains outweighed technical pressure
and profit-taking.


Dealers said the central bank's decision to raise its key
interest rate by 12.50 basis points from Friday did not have much
effect on the equity market as the magnitude of the rate increase
met market expectations.


The weighted index closed up 36.08 points at 7,884.41 on turnover
of 117.72 billion Taiwan dollars (3.56 billion US).


Grand Cathay Investment Services Corp chairman Tu Jin-lung said
the market moved in a narrow band as many investors chose to
remain on the sidelines during the last session of the quarter.


"Investors had made their necessary moves earlier, so they were
reluctant to conduct any aggressive measures during the last
session," he said.


While the lead on Wall Street overnight lent support to the local
bourse, investors here still refrained from any strong position-
building ahead of the weekend.


"With companies here to soon disclose their 2006 earnings results
and first- quarter performance, many stayed on the sidelines," Tu
added.


He said that investors will look for corporate leads and moves in
the major markets for clues as to the direction the local bourse
will take.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co lost 0.80 to 67.90 dollars.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed mixed as the Shanghai market was
hit by profit- taking in the banks while Shenzhen rose on
interest in steelmakers.


Dealers said some profit-taking was to be expected after the
market's 7-day record-breaking run and the reverse in Shanghai
did not appear substantial.


Significantly, turnover was down sharply -- at about 16 billion
dollars after Thursday's 27 billion dollars -- suggesting
investors were content to take some money off the table ahead of
the weekend but no more than that.


Dealers said the fundamentals of strong growth and a rising yuan
remain in place and should continue to support further gains
after what has been in all a 9-day winning streak to Thursday.


The Shanghai Composite Index was down 13.55 points at 3,183.98,
slipping off record highs on reduced turnover of 83.0 billion
yuan (10.71 billion dollars).


"The Shanghai market was under pressure from profit-taking in
banking stocks, with investors becoming cautious after the key
index's gains over the past nine trading days," said Wang Sai, an
analyst at Wanguo Consulting.


"The launch of index futures could be a bit earlier than expected
-- maybe as soon as next month -- so the interest in blue chips
will continue until then," said Wu Dazhong, an analyst at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities.


Bank of China was down 0.12 yuan at 5.55.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 0.57 percent higher in heavy trade,
buoyed by merger and acquisition activity in the media and energy
sectors.


Dealers said media stocks were especially in focus as looser
ownership regulations come into force on Wednesday, with the
major players jockeying for position ahead of what is expected to
be a sharp consolidation of the industry.


The SP/ASX 200 closed up 34.1 points at 5,995. Turnover was heavy
at 1.66 billion shares worth 8.97 billion dollars (7.23 billion
US) were traded.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said there was a buzz
around media stocks after the government announced that
legislation reforming media ownership restrictions will take
effect on April 4.


"We are almost certain to see some ownership reshuffling as the
big players look to consolidate and the smaller players become
prime takeover targets," he said.


PBL ended up 0.82 dollars at 19.85 dollars.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed slightly higher with late buying
of blue chips.


Dealers said Singapore Telecommunications and Singapore Press
Holdings led the gains.


The Straits Times Index closed up 2.36 points at 3,231.24 on
volume of 1.78 billion shares worth 1.87 billion dollars (1.24
billion US).


Dealers said the market was rangebound most of the day but late
buying in SingTel and SPH helped the main index end in positive
territory.


"Investors are focusing on blue chips with high dividend
potential," a dealer with a local brokerage said.


He said the market is unlikely to sustain gains into next week in
the absence of fresh buying catalysts and with some investors
likely to be sidelined because of the shortened trading week. The
market will be closed for Good Friday holiday.


SingTel was up 0.06 at 3.28.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.89 percent higher led by blue
chips and property stocks, with the gains also seen as a
technical rebound after a mid- week sell-off.


The composite index gained 10.98 points to 1,246.87. Volume
traded was  2.8 billion shares worth 2.9 billion ringgit (838.2
million dollars).


"The market was up mainly on a technical rebound after the sell-
off mid-week," said an analyst from a local investment house.


National carmaker Proton closed unchanged at 6.65 ringgit after
hitting a low of 6.20 following a Singapore media report that
Volkswagen AG had pulled out of talks for a tie-up with it.


Volkswagen later denied the report, saying talks with Proton are
ongoing while Malaysia's Second Finance Minister Nor Mohamed
Yakcop said the government will miss the end-March deadline to
choose a strategic partner for Proton.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.31 percent higher, led by gains in
energy-linked shares as oil prices continued to climb due to
rising tensions over Iran's seizure of British military
personnel.


But dealers said the broader market was kept in check due to
political worries in Thailand as anti-junta protesters planned to
go ahead with a rally in Bangkok despite security warnings.


The composite index rose 2.09 points to 673.71 on turnover of
1.21 billion shares worth 8.2 billion baht (234 million dollars).


"The market rose slightly mainly due to gains in banking and
energy shares.  The energy sector was helped by rising oil
prices," said Chai Chirasevenupraphand, a strategist at Capital
Nomura Securities.


Global oil prices were approaching to the 70-dollar level per
barrel due to a diplomatic row between Iran, the world's fourth
biggest oil producer, and Britain over Tehran's detention of
British sailors.


Although the Thai market held firm, overall gains were modest as
investors took a wait-and-see stance ahead of an anti-junta
protest scheduled for late Friday, Chai said.


At least 1,500 police will be deployed to the protest against the
military- installed government, which came to power after a
bloodless coup in September 2006.


PTT was flat at 208.00.


JAKARTA: Shares prices closed 0.73 percent higher, buoyed by
strong corporate results and hopes the government will release
data showing a pullback in inflation.


Dealers said gainers included Timah, Inco and Telkom although the
upside was capped by profit taking in selected large caps
including Astra International and Perusahaan Gas Negara.


The composite index closed up 13.205 points at 1,830.924 on
volume of 2.40 billion shares valued at 3.11 trillion rupiah
(340.58 million dollars).


"I think overall market sentiment was positive today as investors
were encouraged by the strong 2006 results of a number companies
as well as gains on Wall Street overnight," Mega Capital analyst
Ikhsan Binanto said.


He added that investors were also buying stocks in anticipation
that the March consumer inflation number, due out Monday, will
show an easing in inflationary pressure.


Economists expect CPI to have risen 0.02-0.40 percent month-on-
month in March compared to growth of 0.62 percent in February.


State tin miner PT Timah surged 250 rupiah.


MANILA: Share prices closed 1.64 percent higher, lifted by a
rebound on Wall Street and end of quarter window dressing.


Dealers said investors had also been encouraged by expectations
that inflation would remain low. The central bank expects
consumer prices to rise this month by 2.0-2.6 percent year-on-
year compared to 2.6 percent last month.


The composite index rose 51.83 points to 3,203.55. Volume was 5.5
billion shares worth 7.57 billion pesos (157.19 million dollars).


Dealers said investor sentiment improved after better-than-
expected, fourth- quarter gross domestic product (GDP) growth in
the United States and indications the US Federal Reserve will
keep interest rates at current levels.


"The market is still basically taking its lead from Wall Street,
and such assurances somehow eased, for the moment, worries about
a potential hard landing of the US economy," said Jose Vistan of
AB Capital Securities.


Globe Telecom Inc gained five to 1,230.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.13 percent lower in a low key
finish to the quarter.


The NZX-50 gross index fell 5.41 points to 4,107.14 on turnover
worth 192.2 million dollars (137.2 million US).


The focus was on an announcement by Port of Tauranga which called
off talks for a possible merger with Ports of Auckland. It
accused Auckland Regional Holdings, the owner of Ports of
Auckland, of dithering over whether a merger was worth
undertaking.


Port of Tauranga shares fell 20 cents to 6.10 dollars.


Investment firm GPG ended one cent higher at 2.28 dollars after a
disappointing week. UBS broker Richard Leggat said a couple of
large overseas holders had decided there was too much uncertainty
surrounding GPG's investment in Britain's Coates fasteners.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed up 0.71 percent as buying picked up
in mid and small-cap stocks following data showing lower than
forecast inflation.


Dealers said sentiment also improved on bargain-hunting and a
smooth rollover of most stock positions to the next futures
market contract which began Friday.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex index rose 92.44 points to 13,072.1.


Dealers said the India's central bank could raise rates next
month after India's inflation rate held steady at 6.46 percent
for the week ended March 17, below analysts' forecasts of 6.5
percent.


The RBI will decide full-year monetary policy on April 24.


"The markets saw bargain-hunting in mid and small-cap stocks.
Liquidity and inflation concerns weigh over the medium term which
could pull the market down," said Maonoj Kakaiya, a dealer with
brokerage ULJK Securities.

