

The so-called Financial Stability Forum, a top-level body set up
to monitor issues of global market stability, warned this week
that recent turbulence on financial markets could be the
harbinger of a much deeper shift in investors' appetite for risk
in future.


Following a closed-door meeting in Frankfurt on Thursday, chaired
by European Central Bank governing council member Mario Draghi,
the body said that the turbulence in equity and credit markets in
late February and early March could augur much deeper and
prolonged turmoil in future as investors reduce their willingness
to take risk.


The recent turbulence "involved an adjustment in risk positions
amidst some increase in macroeconomic uncertainty and concern
about the scope of problems in the US subprime mortgage sector,"
FSF said in a statement.


"Market participants need to ensure that risk management
scenarios take appropriate account of the risks and potential
consequences that would arise from a more pronounced and
prolonged reduction of risk-taking," the body cautioned.


The FSF was set up in 1999 by G7 (Group of Seven) finance
ministers and central bank governors to promote international
financial stability and brings together senior representatives
from international financial institutions, regulatory groups and
the national financial authorities of the world's major
economies.


The body said that market participants should also pay attention
to risks related to the rapid growth of hedge funds, highly
speculative and aggressive investment instruments that are
estimated to manage 1.4 trillion dollars (1.1 trillion euros) in
assets worldwide.


"Hedge funds have significantly expanded their involvement in
credit markets, where complex products can pose substantial risk
management and valuation challenges," FSF said.


Germany has long campaigned for increased transparency and even
regulation of the largely uncontrolled sector and has placed the
issue at the top of the agenda during its year-long presidency of
the G8 (Group of Eight) this year.


FSF said that at the meeting its members "emphasised the
importance of enhancing the effectiveness of market discipline
and continuing attention to strengthening counterparty risk
management practices."


The FSF is in the process of preparing an update of its 2000
report on Highly Leveraged Institutions which it is due to
present to G7 finance ministers in May.


The forum said it is also monitoring the rapid growth of company
buy-outs supported by private equity funds.


"Members believe that the private equity market plays an
important role in efficient capital allocation. At the same time,
it was agreed that the FSF should continue to monitor
developments in this area, particularly as they relate to overall
corporate leverage, the credit exposures of intermediaries and
potential implications for financial stability," it said.

