

German department store operator KarstadtQuelle and the Jewish
Claims Conference said on Friday they had settled a long and
complex dispute over real estate seized by the Nazis in Berlin in
the 1930s.


The retail giant has agreed to pay compensation to the heirs of
the Jewish Wertheim department store dynasty for former property
on the bustling Potsdamer Platz square in the heart of Berlin
which was expropriated by the Nazis, KarstadtQuelle and JCC said
in separate statements.


The JCC is working to recover the assets of the Wertheim family,
many of whose heirs live in the United States.


KarstadtQuelle did not reveal in its statement how much it had
agreed to pay in compensation, but JCC put the sum at 88 million
euros (117 million dollars).


It was "one of the largest compensation payments to ever result
from Holocaust- related restitution," JCC said.


"This settlement is of tremendous importance. It brings to a
close one of the largest and most complicated Holocaust
restitution cases taken by the Claims Conference. It is a
symbolic recognition of a painful chapter in the history of the
Jews of Nazi-era Germany," said Claims Conference executive vice
president, Gideon Taylor.


"We travelled a long and difficult road to reach this result,"
said JCC director Roman Haller.


Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl was a mediator in the talks between
JCC and Karstadt.


The money would go to projects supporting Holocaust survivors and
to the Wertheim family, JCC said.


The dispute centres on a parcel of land within the so-called
Lenne Triangle in the heart of Berlin, where the 435-million-euro
Beisheim Centre now stands, alongside luxury hotels Ritz Carlton
and Marriott.


The land had been part of the former communist East Germany until
a land swap deal between east and west Germany in 1988.


Then, after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Berlin gave the
land to the Hertie department store chain, which had acquired the
Wertheim group after the war.


Hertie itself was then taken over by Karstadt in 1994. And
Karstadt subsequently sold the property to Otto Beisheim, the
founder of retail and distribution giant Metro for 145 million
euros in 2000.


But last year, Germany's BARoV state asset authority awarded the
properties to the JCC, arguing that KarstadtQuelle was not the
legal owner of the properties when it sold them. And BARoV
approved the JCC's claim for compensation.


KarstadtQuelle chief executive Thomas Middelhoff expressed
"gratitude and relief" at the deal.


"It was our interest to do justice to our responsibility in terms
of history," he said.


"I would like to thank the ex-Chancellor Helmut Kohl for his
mediation and the German Director of the Jewish Claims
Conference, Roman Haller, for the trusting meetings."


And he continued: "Of course we also had to act in the interests
of our shareholders and ensure that the future of the company was
not impaired with the risk of a high level of legal uncertainty.
For the company there is now legal certainty on the ongoing route
to economic consolidation and growth."


Previous media reports had suggested KarstadtQuelle might have to
pay damages of more than 145 million euros to the JCC, which
would have been a severe setback for the group's restructuring
efforts.


KarstadtQuelle shares tumbled 1.6 percent to an intraday low of
27.22 euros in the wake of the announcement, but had recovered by
mid-afternoon to show a loss of 0.01 euros or 0.04 percent at
27.65 euros.

