

Economic confidence in the 13 nations sharing the euro rose in
March to a six- year high while unemployment hit a record low in
February, official data showed Friday, cementing expectations for
the ECB to keep raising interest rates.


Optimism about the Europe economy's outlook improved more than
expected in March, with the European Commission's eurozone
economic sentiment indicator rising to 111.2 points in March,
well above forecasts for 110.0.


The result was the highest level of confidence in the eurozone
economy since January 2001 and comes despite an increase in
German value added tax at the beginning of the year, a slowing US
economy, a strong euro and financial market turbulence.


With confidence soaring, companies have been stepping up hiring,
pushing the the unemployment rate in the eurozone to a record 7.3
percent in February, the lowest level on the books at the EU's
Eurostat data agency.


Since peaking at 8.9 percent during an extended period ending in
September 2004, unemployment in the eurozone, long one of the
biggest problems facing politicians in the bloc, has steadily
declined as the economy gathers pace.


Economist Howard Archer at the Global Insight consultancy said
high confidence and record low unemployment showed that the
eurozone was "maintaining healthy growth momentum so far in
2007."


"Stronger indicators of activity and lower unemployment mean that
the ECB is unlikely to tone down its commentary on inflation
risks," said UBS economist Edward Teather.


Despite the firm economic growth, inflation has remained tame,
with a first estimate released Friday from Eurostat showing that
12-month consumer price growth rose only slightly in March to 1.9
percent from 1.8 percent in February.


The estimate was spot on private economists' forecasts and in
line with the European Central Bank's preference for an annual
inflation rate of less than but close to two percent.


Eurozone inflation has held largely steady been tame since the
beginning of the year, confounding many economists and
politicians' expectations for a surge after Germany raised valued
added tax three full percentage points in January.


Nevertheless, the ECB raised its key interest rates to a five-
and-a-half-year high point of 3.75 percent earlier this month to
keep a lid on inflation in the bloc.


Headline inflation has closely followed the trend on global oil
markets where the price of crude has risen to a six-month high of
69 dollars a barrel as tensions flared between London and Tehran
over 15 naval personnel held by Iran.


"The modest rise in eurozone consumer price inflation in March
will reinforce the ECB's concerns about the upside risks to
medium-term price stability, particularly given the inflationary
dangers stemming from recently stronger oil prices and the
tightening labour market," said Archer.


"Consequently, the ECB seems ever more likely to lift its key
interest rate by a further 25 basis points to 4.00 percent in
June, and it is highly possible that interest rates could rise
further thereafter" he added.

