

India's most successful bowler, Anil Kumble, officially announced
his retirement from one-day cricket on Friday, but said he will
remain available for Test matches.


"It's been a long, 17-year journey at the international level,"
Kumble told reporters here. "I may be over with one-dayers but I
am definitely going to play Test cricket."


The 36-year-old leg-spinner had said in February that the World
Cup would be his last one-day assignment and informed team-mates
of his decision soon after India's campaign ended in the
tournament.


The Indians, who were knocked out in the first round after losing
to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in group B of the preliminary league,
returned home on Thursday.


"I wanted to go out on a high after the World Cup, but that
obviously did not happen," said Kumble.


"Hopefully I will finish my Test career on a brighter note.


"One-day cricket is not a bowler's game, so I was always grateful
when any wicket came my way."


The leg-spinner had not been an automatic selection in the
shorter game in recent times even though his 547 wickets in 113
Tests and 337 wickets in 271 one-dayers are the most by any
Indian bowler.


Kumble, playing his fourth World Cup, got just one preliminary
game against first-timers Bermuda as spin partner Harbhajan Singh
was preferred for the more important matches against Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka.


Kumble is best known for taking all 10 wickets in an Test innings
against Pakistan in New Delhi in 1999, only the second bowler to
achieve the feat after Englishman Jim Laker.


His best one-day performance was six for 12 against South Africa
at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata during the Hero Cup tournament in
1993.


Indian captain Rahul Dravid led tributes from the cricketing
fraternity for the soft-spoken veteran, who made his debut in
1990.


"What Anil has performed for India over the last decade and a
half has been legendary," said Dravid. "He is one of our greatest
cricketers."


Former captain Kapil Dev, who held the previous Indian record of
434 Test wickets, said Kumble's hard work and dedication was a
lesson for youngsters.


"Anil has really gone far than anybody could have imagined," he
said. "I never thought he had so much ability, but with time and
determination he went beyond anybody's imagination."

