

Former England captain David Beckham believes Steve McClaren's
side can shrug off their recent poor form to reach the Euro 2008
finals next year.


Beckham, 31, also reiterated his availability for the national
side.


Fans turned on the coach as England struggled to a win against
Andorra on Wednesday in Barcelona and there were persistent calls
for a return of Beckham and chanting of "We want McClaren out".


England, who also battled out a goalless draw with Israel on
Saturday, lie fourth in Group E and are in serious danger of
failing to qualify for the Euro 2008 finals.


But speaking at the Sport Industry Awards in London, where he was
given an award for Outstanding Contribution to British Sport,
Beckham said: "Qualification is very difficult but I'm 100
percent behind these players and this team.


"I was proud to see the way the players were fighting because it
wasn't an easy game. It wasn't an easy atmosphere.


"I've always wanted to play for my country since I was a young
boy and that has never changed."


Beckham continued: "It's always nice for me to have the support
of the fans. That's where the majority of the feeling of English
football comes from.


"It was nice to hear but it was also nice to see the lads get
three points because there has been a huge amount of pressure on
the team.


"I know these players because I've played with the majority of
them in an England shirt. I know the passion they've got and how
much they want to win. "


Concerning McClaren, Beckham said: "When you're England manager
you'll always be criticised.


"I've had a few England managers in my career. I went through it
with Glenn Hoddle, Kevin Keegan and Sven-Goran Eriksson.


"It's part and parcel of being England manager. It's unfair for
me to comment on whether it's fair because it's nothing to do
with me."


Beckham also suggested his availability for an international
recall would continue for the foreseeable future.


"When I stepped down as England captain I said I'll always be
available for my country," he said.


"I also said it when I wasn't announced in Steve McClaren's first
squad and I'll say it again now.


"I'm still playing football and I will be playing football for
many more years to come. I'm still available."


Beckham received his award from Arsenal striker Thierry Henry and
London 2012 chairman Lord Coe at the ceremony in central London
on Thursday night.


The footballer becomes the first individual to land the award
with London 2012 (2006) and England Rugby (2004) among the
previous winners.


Beckham played for Manchester United from 1994 to 2003, and has
played with Real Madrid since. He is set to join the LA Galaxy
this summer.

