

Prime Minister Tony Blair said Friday that Britain wanted Iran to
be "increasingly isolated" in the stand-off over 15 British
detainees, but vowed to be patient in managing the crisis.


He said that the "parading and manipulation" of British service
personnel would fool no-one, adding that videos of them would
only increase a "sense of disgust" at Iran's behaviour.


Blair said that Iran had to realise they had nothing to gain from
continuing to hold the Royal Navy and Royal Marines personnel
they seized in the northern Gulf last Friday.


"What the Iranians have to realise is if they continue in this
way they will face increasing isolation," he told reporters in
Manchester, northwest England.


"The United Nations yesterday, the European Union today; we'll be
talking to other key allies over the weekend.


"We've just got to pursue this with the necessary firmness and
determination but also patience because there is only one
possible conclusion to this and that is that our personnel are
released safe and sound."


Iran aired television footage on Friday of a British sailor
"confessing" to trespassing in Iranian waters, further escalating
the diplomatic crisis over Tehran's capture of 15 navy personnel.


Britain, which failed to win strong condemnation of Iran's
detention of its 15 sailors and marines at the UN Security
Council on Thursday, said it deplored the latest broadcast as
"outrageous."


Blair said: "We've got to proceed as we are which is to make sure
that Iran is increasingly isolated," noting a "very important" UN
statement overnight and saying there would be a European Union
"strong statement" later Friday.


"The sooner the Iranian regime realise they are not gaining
anything from this, they can't gain anything from it. It's
perfectly obvious that these people were in Iraqi waters under a
United Nations mandate.


"There's absolutely no question about the unlawful nature of
their capture and therefore they've got to be released.


"We have to manage this and measure it in a determined way but
also a calm way because it's the lives of the personnel that come
first."

