

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe can expect to come under
growing behind-the- scenes pressure to engage with his opponents
despite escaping public censure from his peers, analysts said
Friday.


Leaders of a 14-member regional bloc held off from criticising
the veteran president over the political and economic crisis on
their doorstep at a summit Thursday, issuing a joint statement
whose most headline-grabbing item was a call for the lifting of
Western sanctions.


But analysts and summit participants said it would be a mistake
to assume Mugabe had got off lightly from Southern African
Development Community leaders and the 83-year-old could not
simply blank mediation calls as in the past.


"It's quite clear that the SADC did communicate to Mugabe they
were unhappy with his undemocratic tendencies and clampdown on
the opposition," said Chris Maroleng, an analyst at the Institute
for Security Studies in Pretoria.


"In essence, they told him he should begin to create an enabling
atmosphere for dialogue."


Growing unease within the ranks of Mugabe's ZANU-PF party and
signs of a more unified opposition following the recent arrest
and assaults of their leaders meant things were different this
time, said Maroleng.


"I think that as a result of the pressure inside ZANU-PF and the
opposition moving towards a unified position and of course the
economy ... Mugabe is slowly being pushed into a corner."


A Tanzanian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
the final communique had been watered down after protests by
Mugabe who has sought to lay the blame for his country's woes at
the doors of the West.


Takura Zhangazha, a Harare-based analyst, said the SADC leaders
had been keen to distance themselves from Mugabe's Western
critics but would have left him in no doubt about their
unhappiness over the crisis in Zimbabwe where inflation is now at
1,730 percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


"Behind closed doors they were obviously candid with him
concerning the problems in Zimbabwe and how they are now
affecting others," Zhangazha said.


"The heads of states' public statement was just made as they did
not want to be seen as just parroting the EU and the USA public
stance."


Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change appeared
unimpressed by events in Dar es Salaam.


"I am not disappointed because I was not expecting anything from
the summit," said MDC secretary general Tendai Biti.


He said the appointment of South African President Thabo Mbeki as
a mediator between government and opposition was largely a red
herring although the party was willing to meet him.


Mbeki, who has been blamed for his quiet diplomacy approach to
Zimbabwe, has mediated in the past but the opposition says
nothing much has come out of it.


"It's not the first time that President Mbeki has been appointed
to mediate and we wonder what is different now ... Even if you
have dialogue tomorrow, how does that reduce inflation from 1,730
percent to, say, two percent, or reduce an unemployment rate of
80 per cent," said Biti.


Maroleng questioned whether Mbeki would find time for "robust
engagement" with Mugabe given the ongoing leadership battle
within his own ANC movement.


However the South African president would be "looking to his
legacy" as he approaches retirement in 2009 and is aware that
resolving the Zimbabwe crisis would be a significant feather in
his cap.


"In essence, the context is very different from last time," he
added.


Bill Saidi, a Harare-based commentator, agreed the opposition
should not feel discouraged.


"Mbeki will also be under pressure from his own ANC and COSATU (a
junior coalition partner) guys," he said.


"Behind the scenes I think SADC leaders told him what they think,
but they do not want to appear as if they have lost the war to
the West by coming out strongly against Mugabe. At the end of the
day, none of the SADC leaders would want to see Zimbabwe go down
the drain."

