

European and African countries joined forces in the UN Human
Rights Council on Friday to maintain pressure on Sudan over a
report that accused Khartoum of orchestrating war crimes in
Darfur.


A resolution to set up a new working group was adopted without a
vote, Council president Luis Alfonso de Alba told the 47-member
assembly.


"We are all united in expressing concern at the seriousness of
the human rights situation in Darfur and deeply care for the
victims of this crisis," said Algerian ambassador Idriss Jazairy,
speaking on behalf of the African group of countries.


The decision "will also enhance the moral authority of the
council beyond Darfur and hopefully will restore confidence
amongst its members as we finalise the institutional architecture
of this new body," the ambassador added.


The new group, headed by the UN special rapporteur for human
rights in Sudan, Sima Samar, is to work with the Sudanese
government and the human rights protection bodies of the African
Union.


The group will both report on the situation on the ground, and
press for the implementation of resolutions by the Council and
other UN human rights bodies.


The agreement between the European and African nations is a blow
to Sudan, which had sought to block any discussion of the report
by Nobel laureate Jody Williams due to alleged "bias".


This bid failed amid intensive diplomatic wrangling, not least
due to the refusal of some African states to stick to their usual
solidarity with Sudan.


The high-level report by Williams and her team earlier this month
found that Sudan's government had "orchestrated and participated
in" war crimes and human rights abuses such as rape and torture
across the strife-torn region.


It urged the international community to adopt a "fully unified
approach" in addressing Darfur, and called on it to implement
measures such as travel bans and the freezing of assets for those
identified as rights violators.


De Alba said on Thursday it was crucial the council remained
"engaged," both for the situation on the ground and the UN body's
own credibility.


"It's not the question of just taking note of the report and
moving on. It is neither the question of sending back a mission
... I think we have a comprehensive report with specific
recommendations and we need to look for their implementation," de
Alba said.


Speaking on Friday, de Alba praised the efforts of both
Ambassador Michael Steiner of Germany on behalf of the EU, and
Ambassador Jazairy of Algeria, for their efforts in seeking to
reach an agreement.


"In the weeks and months to come, this spirit of action-oriented
consensus will prevail," de Alba said.


The United Nations estimates at least 200,000 people have been
killed in Darfur with a further 2.5 million displaced since the
conflict between government forces and rebel groups began in
2003.

