

A car bomb slaughtered 40 people near a revered Shiite shrine in
Iraq's pilgrimage city of Karbala on Saturday, two months to the
day after US-led troops launched a security crackdown in Baghdad.


Another 10 people were killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a
Baghdad bridge, pushing Saturday morning's death toll to 50 just
two days after a suicide bomb attack inside the Iraqi parliament
building in a massive breach of security.


The car bomb exploded outside a bus station surrounded by a
series of shops around 200 metres (yards) from the Imam Hussein
shrine in Karbala, where tens of thousands of Shiite pilgrims
flock every year during the Ashura commemorations in March.


At least 40 people were killed and another 58 wounded, said a
medical source at the main Karbala hospital. Women and children
were among the casualties, and four Iranians were counted among
the wounded at hospital on the second day of the Iraqi weekend.


The violence was the latest defiance of a massive security
crackdown launched exactly two months ago in Baghdad, where tens
of thousands of Iraqi and US troops are patrolling the capital,
and since extended to other cities.


Although American and Iraqi officials have been upbeat about a
reduction in execution-style killings since the crackdown began,
they have admitted car bombings remain a curse.


In the second attack on a Baghdad bridge spanning the Tigris in
two days, a suicide bomber detonated his car next to a checkpoint
killing 10 people and leaving another 15 wounded, most of them
civilians, a security official said.


The blast ripped through the Jadiriyah bridge in the central
Karrada district of the capital, but left the construction
intact.


On Thursday, a truck bomb on the Al-Sarafiyah bridge, further
upstream, killed 10 people and sent several cars plunging into
the water below. The blast partially destroyed the metal
structure built in the early 20th century.


The US military announced the deaths of three more American
soldiers killed south of Baghdad, two of whom died with two Iraqi
interpreters when their patrol base was ambushed in an attack
that saw combat helicopters scrambled.


Attack helicopters and a quick reaction force raced to the scene
to repel the attack, which left another seven US troops wounded,
the army said.


The latest fatalities brought the US military's losses in Iraq to
3,293 since the March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count
based on Pentagon figures, a body count upping domestic American
calls for troops to withdraw.


On a visit to Washington, Iraq's government spokesman moved to
warn US officials about the consequences of a premature American
troops withdrawal from Iraq, one day after the parliament
building attack.


"We feel that premature withdrawal would be a great gift for
those who did yesterday's attack, and definitely it will make a
vacuum of power in Iraq, which is not desired by anyone," said
spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh.


The US Congress is fighting to attach a 2008 deadline for troop
withdrawal to the release of billions of dollars in war spending
for Iraq and Afghanistan, a plan US President George W. Bush has
repeatedly promised to veto.


The second-ranking US general in Iraq admitted that the
parliament suicide attack on Thursday that killed one lawmaker
showed there remained a "long way to go" toward providing
security.


"It is clear that we still have a long way to go to provide
security and stability to the people of Iraq," General Raymond
Odierno told a video news conference, insisting "steady progress
is being made" in the capital.


At an extraordinary session convened on the Muslim day of rest on
Friday, Iraqi lawmakers condemned the suicide attack in their
canteen and vowed to press forward with the political process in
a call for unity against extremism.


Thursday's attack was the most spectacular breach of the multiple
layers of security in the Baghdad Green Zone that houses the
government, the US mission and other foreign embassies, since the
US-led invasion four years ago.


An alliance of Sunni insurgent groups that includes Al-Qaeda in
Iraq claimed responsibility for the attack in an Internet
statement.

