

US terror suspect Jose Padilla, once accused of plotting to
detonate a radioactive bomb in the United States, is set for
trial in Miami, where a federal court will start selecting a jury
on Monday.


Padilla, 36, who had spent three and a half years in military
detention without charges, is accused of plotting to murder,
kidnap and maim people in Afghanistan and elsewhere outside the
United States.


Padilla and co-defendants Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael
Jayyousi, are also charged with aiding a US-based Al-Qaeda terror
cell that supplied recruits and funding to Islamic extremists
abroad.


But the federal charges make no mention of the "dirty bomb"
allegation then- attorney general John Ashcroft made on live
television after Padilla was arrested in 2002 and sent to a navy
brig as an "enemy combatant."


Ashcroft suggested at the time the bomb plot could have caused
"mass death and injury" in the United States.


This could make it all the more challenging for the defense team
to ensure the jurors are willing to presume Padilla is innocent
unless proven guilty.


Starting on Monday, the rival lawyers in the case will screen
potential  jurors in order to pick a panel of 12 and six
alternates.


Judge Marcia Cooke ruled that the jurors' identities would remain
secret until the trial is concluded.


Thirty-eight prospective jurors a day will be called to present
themselves to be questioned by the court until the lawyers agree
on a panel.


Padilla's lawyers had unsuccessfully tried to get the case
dismissed over allegations their client was tortured at a
military prison from 2002 to 2005.


Cooke ruled on April 10 Monday that allegations of abuse in
military custody provided no legal grounds to call off the trial
as there was no indication he had been mistreated at the hands of
civilian government authorities.


A former Chicago gang member of Puerto Rican descent who
converted to Islam, Padilla was detained in May 2002 at Chicago's
O'Hare airport after returning from Pakistan, and was taken to a
naval base in South Carolina.


Padilla's lawyers also alleged their client was so traumatized by
his treatment in military prison, that he could not assist in his
own defense, but Cooke ruled he was fit to stand trial.


The defense team claimed Padilla was subjected to sleep
deprivation, threats of execution, exposure to noxious fumes, and
extreme heat and cold, and was forced to wear a hood and stand in
one position for extended periods of time.


His lawyers also said he was given "truth serum" in the form of
LSD or PCP during his detention in a military prison.


US authorities denied Padilla was mistreated.


The subject of a fierce tug-of-war between the administration of
President George W. Bush and civil liberties groups, Padilla was
transferred to the civilian court system in 2005 after his
lawyers prepared to challenge his military detention before the
Supreme Court.


The government has not explained why the civilian indictment made
no mention of the alleged dirty bomb plot cited as the ground for
Padilla's military detention as an "enemy combatant."


Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Mujahir, has pleaded not
guilty to the charges against him. If convicted he could face
life in prison.

