

Cuban leader Fidel Castro has taken back a large part of the
reins of government and has almost totally recovered eight months
after surgery, his ally Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said
Friday.


"Fidel has nearly completely recovered" from the gastrointestinal
surgery that sidelined him in July, Chavez told a news
conference.


"He has taken back a good part of government functions, but, of
course, not formally," he said, adding he had met late Thursday
with Cuban officials who had given him a written note from
Castro.


"The information that keeps emerging, his notes, his voice on the
telephone, show a marked improvement (in his health)," said
Chavez, who has visited his ailing friend in Cuba several times.
"But I don't want to say more."


Castro, 80, temporarily handed power to his brother and defense
chief Raul, 75, on July 31, four days after undergoing surgery.


He has only been seen in videos and pictures since July, but he
has published in the last two weeks three articles railing
against President George W. Bush, in a sign that he is still
closely following current events.


It is the first time that the Communist stalwart has given up the
reins of government since his guerrilla revolution toppled the
government of dictator Fulgencio Batista in 1959.


Cuban officials and Chavez have given steady updates on Castro's
health in recent months, hinting that he is set for a comeback
that defy predictions by his arch-nemesis, the United States,
that his death was imminent.


Castro's other top ally in Latin America, Bolivian President Evo
Morales, has suggested that the Cuban leader would make his first
public appearance since surgery at a meeting of three nations in
Havana later this month.


But Morales's prediction was thrown into doubt Friday as
Venezuelan ambassador to Cuba, Ali Rodriguez, said the meeting of
the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas, or ALBA, would take
place in Caracas instead on April 27-28.


"What President Evo Morales expressed is the desire that we all
share, and we hope that is the case," Rodriguez said.


In another update on Castro's recovery, Cuban Foreign Minister
Felipe Perez Roque said Friday that his boss was getting better,
putting on weight and taking part in making key government
decisions.


"The health of President Fidel Castro has improved notably," said
Perez Roque said during a three-day visit to Vietnam, Cuba's
Communist ally. "He is improving continually and substantially."

