

Following are the main portions of the text issued at the
conclusion of the G7 finance ministers and central bank governors
in Washington Friday:


We, Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, met today to
evaluate the global economic outlook. Although risks remain, the
global economy is having its strongest sustained expansion in
more than 30 years and is becoming more balanced. In our
economies, US economic activity remains solid even as domestic
demand moderates to a more sustainable growth path. The euro-area
is experiencing a healthy upswing. UK growth remains robust and
Canadian growth is accelerating. Japan's recovery is on track and
expected to continue. We remain confident that the implications
of these developments will be recognized by market participants
and will be incorporated in their assessments of risks.


Further strengthening and rebalancing of domestic demand is
desirable to help ensure the global economic expansion remains
robust. We continue to be committed to maintaining price
stability as the best contribution that monetary policy can make
to sustained global growth. We will do more to increase trend
economic growth rates, especially through structural reforms such
as improving labor markets and long-term fiscal sustainability.
We are confident that the continuation of our policies will
support economic growth and contribute to reduce international
imbalances. We will continue to work together to support the
global adjustment process and urge others to do likewise.


We reaffirm that exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals. Excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates are undesirable for economic growth. We continue
to monitor exchange markets closely, and cooperate as
appropriate. In emerging economies with large and growing current
account surpluses, especially China, it is desirable that their
effective exchange rates move so that necessary adjustments will
occur.


We believe that a successful conclusion of the Doha Development
round is imperative. We are committed to resisting protectionist
sentiment. Substantially lowering tariffs and other barriers is
essential to spur new growth in global trade and reduce poverty.
We welcome recent steps to intensify engagement, recognizing that
substantive movement towards a comprehensive final outcome
requires all parties to make additional efforts. We expect
spending on Aid for Trade to increase to four billion dollars ...
We support initiatives to enhance cooperation to enforce
intellectual property rights and combat counterfeiting which are
crucial to our knowledge-based economies ....


We discussed recent developments in global financial markets,
including hedge funds, which along with the emergence of advanced
financial techniques such as credit derivatives, have contributed
significantly to the efficiency of the financial system. We will
continue to monitor the implications of these developments.
Market-led and official initiatives focused on issues around
private pools of capital intended to strengthen market
discipline, risk management, market infrastructure, information
and valuation practices, are essential contributions to global
financial stability ...


We agree to push forward the ambitious package of bold and
fundamental reforms in order to retain the IMF's relevance and
legitimacy. Reforms should ensure that actual IMF quota shares,
especially those of the most dynamic members, many of which are
emerging markets, better reflect relative weights and roles in
the global economy. We agree that the voice of low-income
countries should be enhanced. A necessary element of IMF reform
is improved surveillance over exchange rates. Surveillance must
focus on external stability and be applied equally and even-
handedly without creating new obligations. In this context, we
welcome the Managing Director's proposals to update the 1977
Decision on Surveillance over Exchange Rate Policies and to
develop a surveillance remit. We look forward to finalizing these
proposals rapidly after the Spring Meetings ...


We encourage the use of the debt sustainability framework by all
borrowers and creditors. We welcome continued work on principles
for responsible lending and seek to involve other interested
parties. We advocate a rapid resolution to Liberia's arrears to
the international financial institutions. Available internal
resources should be fully used to this end ...


In order to ensure energy security and to address climate change,
we consider energy efficiency and the promotion of energy
diversification to be important issues for both developed and
developing economies. Diversification can include advanced energy
technologies such as renewable, nuclear, and clean coal ....


We commit to continue the fight against money laundering,
terrorist financing, and other illicit finance that risks the
stability and integrity of the global financial system ....


We look forward to the successful launch of the International
Compact for Iraq in Sharm El Sheik on May 3. We discussed
economic prospects in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and agreed to
keep this under review.

