

Top finance chiefs from the world's seven richest nations served
up warmed-over commentary on currency volatility Friday but
issued a strong call for a global accord to boost free trade.


Group of Seven finance ministers and central bank governors at a
meeting here in addition threw their weight behind an IMF reform
drive and pledged to monitor developments in speculative hedge
fund markets.


The G7, as it had done in its last statement in early February,
avoided specific mention of the sliding Japanese yen, a trend
that has unsettled eurozone officials who fear it will erode
eurozone export earnings and dampen growth.


The ministers instead reiterated calls on China to allow the yuan
to appreciate more rapidly.


In fact the text adopted by top finance officials from Britain,
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States
contained the same wording as the previous statement, released
after their talks in Germany in February.


They described excessive volatility on foreign exchange markets
as "undesirable" and said that in "emerging economies with large
and growing current account surpluses, especially China, it is
desirable that their effective exchange rates move so that
necessary adjustments can occur."


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said "greater exchange rate
flexibility and stronger domestic demand in China are critical
parts of rebalancing, and it is crucial that China move now with
greater urgency."


The United States does not share European disquiet over the
sliding yen, which has fallen 13.5 percent against the euro since
May 2006 compared to 9.0 percent against the dollar, and insists
that an undervalued Chinese yuan is the principal threat to
currency stability.


Washington has long pressed Beijing to accord greater flexibility
to the yuan, arguing that its weakness gives China an unfair
advantage on export markets while making Chinese products more
attractive in the United States.


China, which has frequently attended G7 gatherings at ministerial
level as a guest, chose to send a lower level finance official to
Friday's gathering, which came at a time of mounting trade
fiction between Washington and Beijing.


The G7 used more muscular language on the Doha Round of trade
liberalization talks, calling a successful outcome to the
negotiations "imperative."


"We believe that a successful conclusion of the Doha Development
round is imperative," they said, referring to the World Trade
Organization's stalled effort to tear down barriers to global
commerce.


"We are committed to resisting protectionist sentiment.
Substantially lowering tariffs and other barriers is essential to
spur new growth in global trade and reduce poverty," ministers
asserted.


After two days of talks in New Delhi, trade ministers from the
United States, the European Union, India, Brazil, Australia and
Japan expressed cautious optimism Thursday that a deal could be
clinched this year.


The Delhi meeting marked the first time the leading trade powers
had assembled for talks since the Doha discussions were suspended
last July amid US and European resistance to deeper cuts to their
farm subsidies.


The G7 chiefs also voiced support for an ongoing overhaul aimed
at preserving the "relevance and legitimacy" of the International
Monetary Fund.


"We agree to push forward the ambitious package of bold and
fundamental reforms in order to retain the IMF's relevance and
legitimacy," they said.


They added that the reform push, the first stage of which was
approved by the IMF at a meeting in Singapore last September,
should ensure that dynamic emerging market economies are better
represented in the 185-member body.


The ministers finally pledged Friday to "monitor" speculative
hedge funds and said strengthening discipline over such
instruments would promote global financial stability.


But they notably dropped a reference to the need for "vigilance"
with regard to hedge funds that they had included in their
previous communique.


Germany had been pressing for tighter controls over the trillion-
dollar hedge fund industry, warning that if one or two such funds
collapse there could be damaging repercussions for the world
economy.


But German zeal for regulation has been resisted by the United
States and Britain and has also failed to win the IMF's backing.

