

Venezuela's president fed speculation Friday that Cuban leader
Fidel Castro might return to power soon, stating that his ailing
friend has informally taken back many duties and has nearly fully
recovered.


Leftist Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who has become Castro's
top ally, gave an upbeat assessment of the veteran leader's
recovery from gastrointestinal surgery that sidelined him for the
first time in July.


"Fidel has nearly completely recovered," Chavez, who has become a
sort of spokesman on Castro's health, told a news conference.


"He has taken back a good part of government functions, but, of
course, not formally," he said, adding he had met late Thursday
with Castro "emissaries" who had given him a written note from
the Cuban leader.


"The information that keeps emerging, his notes, his voice on the
telephone, show a marked improvement (in his health)," said
Chavez, who has visited his friend recovering in Cuba several
times. He added that he could not say more.


Castro, 80, handed power on a temporary basis to his brother and
defense chief Raul, 75, on July 31, four days after undergoing
surgery.


He has only been seen in videos and pictures since then, but has
published in the past two weeks three articles in Cuba's official
daily Granma railing against US President George W. Bush, in a
sign that he is still following current events.


It is the first time that the Communist stalwart has given up the
reins of government since his guerrilla revolution toppled the
government of dictator Fulgencio Batista in 1959.


Cuban officials and Chavez have given steady updates on Castro's
health in recent months, hinting that he is set for a comeback,
and defying predictions by his arch-nemesis, the United States,
that his death was close.


Castro's other top ally in Latin America, Bolivian President Evo
Morales, had suggested that the Cuban leader would make his first
public appearance since surgery at a four-nation cooperation
group's summit in Havana later this month.


But Morales's prediction was thrown into doubt Friday as the
Venezuelan ambassador to Cuba, Ali Rodriguez, said the meeting of
the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA) would take
place in Caracas instead on April 27-29.


"What President Evo Morales expressed is the desire that we all
share, and we hope that is the case," Rodriguez said.


"We want to see him in good health again because he has been one
of the inspirational souls of the ALBA process and the
integration process," he said.


ALBA is a Cuban-Venezuelan initiative including Bolivia and
Nicaragua that was launched last year as an alternative to the
US-backed Free Trade Area of the Americas.


In another update on Castro's recovery, Cuban Foreign Minister
Felipe Perez Roque said Friday his boss was putting on weight,
exercising, keeping himself informed on world affairs and taking
part in the decision-making process.


"The health of President Fidel Castro has improved notably," said
Perez Roque during a three-day visit to Vietnam, Cuba's Communist
ally. "He is improving continually and substantially."


Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage said Castro's recent articles,
criticizing Bush's biofuel policies and the conditional release
by a US judge of an anti- Castro militant held on immigration
charges, shows he is still a force.


"From his recovery process, he is capable of mobilizing the world
with thoughts of such importance and so transcendent like the
ones he just had," Lage said.

