

English veteran Laura Davies, seeking to end a long drought on US
soil, remained tied for the lead with rising Mexican star Lorena
Ochoa at the LPGA Ginn Open Friday.


Davies repeated her superb opening round of 66, as did Ochoa, as
the overnight leaders opened a three-shot gap after two rounds of
the 2.6 million-dollar tournament.


At 12-under-par 132 at the Reunion Resort, the 43-year-old Davies
was in confident mood heading into the weekend, despite going six
years on the US tour without a victory.


"It's early days and I would be a mug to say I'm going to
anything like a breeze for me on Saturday and Sunday," Davies
said. "But I'm feeling great about my game. I've been playing
solid golf all year but finishing around 13th, 15th or 20th. The
difference so far this week is that I've holed a few more putts."


Ochoa, who was a late starter, had three late birdies to preserve
her share of the lead.


She and Davies were three in front of American Natalie Gulbis,
who also carded a 66.


Defending champion Mi Hyun Kim of South Korea was in fourth place
at seven-under after a 69.


Davies started at the 10th and highlighted her round with eagles
at two of the long holes.


The first came with a 5-iron and 15-foot putt at the 17th, and
then she made three for the second day in a row at the par-5
third where she hit a 2-iron second shot to 20-feet.


Last year, the former world No.1 won a tournament in Norway and
went on to claim the No.1 ranking in Europe for a record seventh
time.


But it is almost six years since she tasted success in America.


"I've won around the world since then, but I think it's just a
little lack of confidence that's stopped me winning over here,"
Davies said.


Davies needs just two more LPGA victories to enter the LPGA Hall
of Fame.


"I would love to get into the Hall of Fame and I would probably
have won more (on the LPGA) if I hadn't spent so much time
playing in Europe," Davies said. "I'll be upset if I don't make
it. It certainly would be hard to take not to win again. It would
be a disappointing way to end a long and pretty decent career.


"But you never know when it's going to be your last win, so
you've got to enjoy them all. But I've got 20 on the LPGA Tour
and I still think I can win 20 more."


Ochoa will replace Annika Sorenstam who withdrew with a back
injury as the world No.1 if she triumphs on Sunday.


"But I'm not thinking about that yet," said the 25-year-old
10-time Tour winner. "I just want to concentrate on doing well
over the next two days."

