

Tourism, overpopulation and non-native species are threatening
the ecosystem of the Galapagos Islands, the archipelago which
inspired British naturalist Charles Darwin's theory of evolution,
experts say.


The islands, which attract hordes of tourists each year for their
unique array of flora and fauna unseen elsewhere in the world,
are "at risk" due to a heavily imperiled ecosystem, Ecuadorean
President Rafael Correa has declared.


In order to protect the UNESCO World Heritage site, Correa this
week issued orders to restrict tourist traffic, overhead flights
and residence permits on the isles 1,000 kilometers (621 miles)
from Ecuador's coast.


The situation is so grave that a UNESCO delegation has been
dispatched to determine if the archipelago should be officially
listed as one of the major world heritage sites that are "in
danger."


"We have not yet drawn our conclusions but it should not be any
secret to anyone that we are concerned about the islands," said
World Conservation Union program director Robert Hofstede.


The mission's findings will be examined from June 23 to July 2 by
an intergovernmental committee on world heritage sites in New
Zealand.


The situation has worsened in the past 15 years due to the
introduction of insects that are harmful to plants and other
animal species that are disrupting the native balance, according
to the Charles Darwin Foundation research group.


Most of the harmful changes have accompanied a three-fold
increase in tourism to the island over the past 15 years as well
as a similar rise in immigration, said foundation chief Graham
Watkins.


"Studies show that 60 percent of the 1,880 local plants are
threatened. We have discovered 490 insect species that have been
introduced as well as 53 new invertebrate species, 55 of which
are particularly invasive," Watkins said.


The 8,000 square kilometer (3,088 square mile) islands and 45,000
square kilometers (17,374 square miles) of surrounding waters are
populated by giant turtles, sharks, Darwin finches, marine
iguanas, sea lions, rare trees and insects.


Many specialists have said the situation is grave but not
irreversible as long as urgent conservation measures are taken.


"The first thing is to shore up the ecological barrier by
limiting the ports of entry: one heliport, one port and (the
imposition of) a quarantine declaration," Watkins said.


The Ecuadorean president's decree called for a temporary
suspension of new tourist permits and air links to the
archipelago, which is visited by 100,000 tourists each year.


Visas will no longer be issued to residents and those who are not
legally on the island  -- estimated by UNESCO to be around 20
percent of the 30,000 inhabitants -- will be sent home.


A major factor in the ecosystem's decline has been the
introduction of dogs, cats, goats and donkeys -- species that
were not on the island before.


"Part of the reason we are at this point is because man has
introduced these species which have become the Galapagos's main
predators," biologist and co- director of the Galapagos Park
Carlos Valle told AFP.


Over the past three years, UN workers teamed up with the park to
eliminate as many as 80,000 wild goats. These animals' eating
habits were threatening the food supply of the turtles who came
centuries before.

