

A sinister dart-firing device found buried in a Hong Kong race
track contained a muscle relaxant that could affect horses'
performance, a report said Saturday.


A sharp-eye official spotted the remote-controlled device during
a routine inspection of the famous Happy Valley track on the
morning before a race meeting last month.


The sophisticated mechanism consisted of a series of tubes
connected to a compressed air cylinder and was loaded with dart-
shaped syringes -- most filled with a liquid -- laid across the
starting line for a 1,200 metre race.


Police said the device, apparently designed to fire darts into
horses, could have resulted in serious injury to horses or
jockeys.


The mechanism was armed with a drug that could relax and numb
muscles, the South China Morning Post said, citing sources close
to the investigation.


The substance was similar to drugs used to alleviate cramps in
epilepsy patients and laboratory tests indicated it may have been
produced in China, it said.


"The tests also found impurities in the substances and it is very
likely they are products from the mainland," the Post quoted an
unnamed source as saying.


The tubes in the device contained different doses of the drug.


"It means someone who controlled the device could remotely inject
different dosages of drugs in different horses to affect their
performance," the source told the paper.


Police are hunting four men who had been seen in the area of the
starting line early in the morning of March 21, the day the
device was found.


Hong Kong Jockey Club, which oversees racing here, has offered a
million-dollar (128,000 US) reward for information that leads to
the prosecution of the culprits.


Jockey Club chief of security Steven Chandler said it was
unlikely to be last attempt by criminals to nobble horses.


"Even though you are very proactive, the people who are looking
at your industry are equally proactive and ingenious," the Post
quoted him as saying.


"I am sure that in the years to come, we will find more ingenious
devices being used to try to secure an advantage."


Police have not yet unearthed a motive but public speculation has
revolved around extortion or links to illegal gambling.


Racing is the most popular sport in the city, with billions of
Hong Kong dollars wagered on the horses every week.

