

NATO and Afghan troops backed by warplanes killed up to 60
Taliban militants, officials said Friday, as the US-led coalition
battled to gain control of the restive south.


US and Afghan troops backed by warplanes killed more than 35
Taliban militants during a five-hour battle on Thursday in the
bitterly contested Helmand province Thursday, the US-led
coalition said.


Friday, a joint NATO and Afghan military offensive in the Garmser
district of Helmand killed a further 24 militants, the province's
police chief Mohammad Nabi Mullahkhil told AFP, although the
reports could not be confirmed.


Meanwhile, a British soldier with the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) was killed in a separate
gunbattle with rebels on Friday, becoming the 12th foreign
soldier to die in Afghanistan in a week.


US special forces and Afghan troops also killed three Taliban who
pinned down a group of civilian contractors after their
helicopter came down in another area.


The fighting on Thursday, where 35 of the rebels were killed,
took place in the Sangin district of Helmand, which some 1,000
Afghan and international troops wrested from insurgent control at
the weekend.


Sangin is one of several districts in southern Afghanistan that
have been out of government control at times during the last year
amid a fierce insurgency led by the Islamist Taliban.


"More than 35 Taliban fighters were killed by ANA (Afghan
National Army) and coalition forces during the five-hour
afternoon battle," the coalition said in a statement.


The statement said the clashes erupted after the troops
identified several militant groups in the region. US air support
was also called to pursue the fighters as they fled, the
statement said.


The British soldier was killed and two others wounded in southern
Afghanistan when their patrol fought fierce firefights with
Taliban insurgents, the Ministry of Defence in London said.


The fighting erupted when a unit returned from a patrol aimed at
reassuring Afghans that NATO forces were improving security in an
area of northwest Helmand province and spotted five Taliban
preparing an ambush.


The soldiers based near the town of Now Zad opened fire on the
Taliban who were soon reinforced, with other fighters firing
mortars, rockets, RPGs, heavy machine guns and small arms, the
ministry said.


One of the soldiers received serious gunshot wounds, it added in
a statement relayed from an ISAF press centre in Lashkar Gah,
Afghanistan.


Backed by an Apache attack helicopter exchanging fire with
Taliban fighters on the ground, a Chinook ambulance helicopter
arrived to collect the casualty and evacuated him for medical
care at the main British base at Camp Bastion.


However, he was pronounced dead on arrival, the ministry
statement said.


The death brought to 40 the number of international troops killed
in Afghanistan this year. Some 170 were killed there in 2006.


It came a day after two NATO soldiers were killed in separate
explosions in southern Afghanistan, and follows Canada's heaviest
single-day troop loss in 50 years with the deaths of six soldiers
near Kandahar on Sunday.


Two French aid workers, apparently kidnapped by the Taliban in
southwestern Nimroz province on April 3, remain missing.


French President Jacques Chirac called his Afghan counterpart
Hamid Karzai late Thursday to "demand his support" for efforts to
free them, according to Karzai's office.


The Taliban beheaded an Afghan journalist kidnapped with an
Italian reporter a month ago. The Italian journalist was freed
after two weeks in captivity under a deal which saw five Taliban
freed from Afghan jails.


Around 1,000 people, most of them militants, have died in
insurgency-related violence this year.

