

The ex-head of Indonesian airline Garuda and another former
executive were arrested Saturday in connection with the murder of
a human rights activist who died on a Garuda flight, police said.


National police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said the two were being
questioned about the death of Munir Said Thalib two years ago
from arsenic poisoning.


Earlier this week, national police chief Sutanto said the two
were being investigated over the falsification of documents for a
Garuda pilot whose conviction for Munir's murder was overturned.


Their lawyer insisted there was no evidence to link his clients
to the murder, saying they were "just linked to the issuance of
the documents."


"My clients had been cooperative, why are they treated like
terrorists?" said the lawyer, referring to the dawn arrest of
former Garuda head Indra Setiawan.


But Adiwinoto said there was enough evidence against the Setiawan
and the second suspect, Rohainil Aini, to keep them in custody.


Pollycarpus Priyanto, an off-duty Garuda pilot on the plane, was
accused of lacing Munir's drink with poison. He was the only
person jailed for the crime, but his conviction was later
overturned.


The pilot allegedly had links to Indonesia's powerful
intelligence agency.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of Indonesian dictator Suharto. He was 38 when he died on
the flight operated by the Indonesian flag carrier.


The arrests came after police said Munir consumed the arsenic at
Singapore's Changi airport before dying on his connecting flight
in September 2004.


Police re-enacted the poisoning in Changi in cooperation with
Singaporean police and submitted their evidence to Indonesian
prosecutors on Friday in a bid to reopen the case.


But Assegaf said there was no possibility of Priyanto being
charged again because it would not be allowed under Indonesian
law.


Rights activists say the government and police have been slow to
investigate Munir's murder because spies were involved.


The United Nations special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings
has filed a report on Munir's murder to the UN High Commissioner
for Human Rights.

