

Hundreds of thousands of revellers thronged parks in the
Bangladeshi capital Dhaka at dawn on Saturday to greet the
Bengali New Year amid unprecedented security, police said.


The New Year celebrations are the first since Bangladesh was
placed under emergency rule January 11 after the president
cancelled elections amid allegations of poll rigging and
installed a military-backed government.


Police said security was tightened to prevent attacks by Islamic
militants after the government executed six leaders of the banned
Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) group last month for
masterminding nationwide blasts.


Nearly 7,000 riot police and crack security force officers were
deployed at the Ramna Park, the focal point of celebrations in
the capital of 12 million, authorities said.


Women wearing colourful saris and men in white tunics turned out
early in the morning to dance and sing in the lush green park to
welcome year 1414 in the Bengali calendar while troops with
sniffer dogs circled round.


Security gates and metal detectors were set up at the park's
entrance.


"We have set up checkposts and observation towers in the park and
sniffer dogs have scoured the whole area," said Sultan Nurani
commanding officer of the elite Rapid Action Batallion.


"We've received no specific threat but don't want to leave
anything to chances," said Nurani.


Another banned Islamic group, Harkat-ulJihad al Islami was blamed
for a 2001 blast at the park that killed at least nine people and
wounded more than 100.


The Afghan-trained leader of the group, Mufti Hannan, has since
been arrested and confessed in court that he masterminded the
bombing.


The militants were seeking to impose strict Islamic law in the
Muslim-majority nation which has a secular legal system.


In the Dhaka University area, thousands of students staged a
traditional New Year procession wearing colourful paper animal
masks.


The procession was led by a giant paper elephant, two Bengal
tigers, the national symbol, and some gigantic turtles.


"I'm here because I'm a proud Bengali," said Tabassum Ahmed who
flew from New York to join the celebration.


"This is the celebration for everybody. Here everyone is a proud
Bengali," said businessman Rabindra Das.

