

Customers usually come from far and wide to buy rifles and
shotguns from the dozens of tiny shops clustered in a bazaar in
the ramshackle town of Kanpur, the gun capital of India's Uttar
Pradesh state.


But business has stopped. Arms sales have been banned as the
country's largest state -- infamous for lawlessness -- holds
month-long polls under heavy security, halting one of the area's
most profitable sectors.


"This has been traditionally a very large market for the guns and
perhaps it's one of the biggest markets in northern India," said
senior city police officer Alok Singh.


"It not only caters to Kanpur but there's an adjoining area where
there is a tradition of bearing arms. So they come to Kanpur to
purchase their arms."


Singh was referring to Bundelkhand, an undulating arid area that
spans southern Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring Madhya Pradesh
state and is known for a macho culture and the prevalence of
bandits.


"In these parts, it is very much a culture to have a weapon slung
across your shoulder," said Javeed Ahmed, a senior police officer
for Kanpur and surrounding areas.


"It is as much a requirement for security as a cultural thing."


There are approximately 130 gun shops in this city, according to
the local arms licensing office, most of them along the old
Meston Road in the heart of Kanpur, a former mill town sometimes
called India's Manchester.


With little industrialisation in these areas, guns are also one
of the few status symbols available to locals, he added.


"There's no industrialisation, nothing to divert attention," said
Ahmed.


At one point some districts in the state even used the popularity
of guns as a tool in population control, offering gun licences to
those who brought in people to be sterilised.


Many of Kanpur's shops have old fashioned names -- like 'Imperial
Arms' and 'Lords Gun House' -- with attractively painted signs
portraying rifles and, on occasion, fearsome-looking men wearing
sunglasses.


At the moment, however, with a seven-stage election underway, no
guns may be sold. Shopkeepers are passing the time cleaning the
weapons, painting the shops and talking politics.


On Friday, 16 million voters were eligible to vote for 58 members
in the 403-seat state assembly under the watch of almost 70,000
paramilitary troops in the second stage of voting.


In the run-up to the elections, residents have been asked to
deposit their weapons with local gun shops.


"We have about 200 guns in our deposit," said clean-cut Afzal
Alam, 30, whose grandfather started the Mehboob Alam & Sons
arms store some 50 years ago.


The store sells Indian-made as well as vintage rifles from World
War II and a Colt rifle manufactured in Connecticut in 1888,
which would sell for about 100,000 rupees (2,270 dollars).


Crime has gone up and more and more people come to buy guns for
self-protection, added Alam.


"People buy guns a lot for weddings also," said Gulzar, 26, who
uses only one name and runs Universal Guns, also owned by the
Alam family.


Gulzar explained that many people use rifles to shoot bullets in
the air to express their joy as they sing and dance in the
procession that accompanies a groom to his wedding.


Gun sales have been good in recent years, said gun store
proprietor Zia-ul Islam Chowdhary, general secretary of the
Kanpur arms dealers association.


"Business is comfortable," said Chowdhary, "This government is
issuing more gun licences."


There are approximately 800,000 arms licence holders in Uttar
Pradesh, according to the state's home ministry, more than 20,000
of them in Kanpur.


The current government, which is run by Mulayam Singh Yadav and
the Samajwadi Party, has been blamed by opponents for being soft
on crime.


The state's growing reputation for lawlessness has been a
campaigning point for the opposition in the polls, in which Yadav
is fighting for re-election.


But police officer Ahmed said that in many cases, guns were vital
for the safety of villagers in rural areas where bandits roam and
where there may be only one policeman for 2,000 residents.


"Someone living in a far-flung hamlet has some justification to
have a weapon if he can have afford one," said the police
officer.


Gun shop owners like Chowdhary are sure business will pick up
once votes are counted on May 11.


"The customer who is not able to come now will come later," he
said. "If he has to buy a gun, he's going to buy a gun."

