

Bangladesh's military-backed government is expected to decide
within a month on Indian conglomerate Tata's three-billion-dollar
investment plan, a top investment official said Saturday.


The announcement came after the Indian salt-to-telecoms giant
warned it might shelve plans to set up a 2.4-million-tonne steel
plant, two power plants, a coal mine and a fertiliser plant
unless a decision was made quickly.


Tata's proposal would be the biggest single foreign investment in
Bangladesh.


"I've talked to all cabinet members including the head of the
government about the proposal and everyone agreed a decision on
Tata should be made quickly," said Nazrul Islam, head of the
government's Board of Investment.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January 11 when
the president cancelled elections amid allegations of poll
rigging and installed a military- backed administration.


"We'll send all reports on the projects to the head of the
government within a few days and expect a decision on the
proposal within the next month," Islam said.


"It's the biggest investment proposal we have and it has been
with us for about two years. So we must make a decision on its
fate very quickly."


The government has promised to "take up all necessary projects"
to promote long- term economic growth and vowed to clean up
corruption before restoring democracy and holding "credible"
elections before the end of 2008.


The previous Bangladesh Nationalist Party government had promised
a decision on the Tata project by last June.


But after two years of negotiations, it halted the deal, saying
political sensitivities just ahead of the polls would make it
difficult for the government to make a decision.


It said the new government would decide on the matter after the
next parliamentary elections.


Anti-Indian sentiment is rampant among Bangladeshi voters as many
believe India seeks to bully its smaller neighbour and political
leaders traditionally fear being seen courting the country's
powerful neighbor.


The Tata Group said last month it was keen to invest in
Bangladesh, saying the country had immense potential, but that it
could not wait "indefinitely."

