

Wall Street has been able to shake off worries about a slowing US
economy, and has inched closer to a blue-chip record high as the
market enters the heart of the corporate earnings season.


In the week to Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced
0.41 percent to 12,612.13 and has clawed back to within striking
distance of its all-time high on February 20 of 12,786.64.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.62
percent for the week to 1,452.85 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq
composite added 0.83 percent to 2,491.94.


The gains came even after a lowering of the outlook for US
economic growth by the International Monetary Fund to 2.2 percent
for 2007 -- below the forecast of the Federal Reserve -- and some
nettlesome news on inflation.


"The stock market continues to hang tough despite worsening
fundamentals," said Dick Green, analyst at Briefing.com.


"Expectations for every key fundamental factor have moved in a
bearish direction. This has occurred over the past month even
while the stock market has recovered.


"April has been the best month for the stock market over the past
50 years, and perhaps seasonal trends are giving a boost now.
Over time, however, the difficult fundamental outlook limits the
upside potential."


The market maintained its momentum even after the government said
US wholesale prices jumped 1.0 percent in March. The "core" index
excluding food and energy was flat, but some analysts say
inflation remains a concern for the economy and makes it hard for
the Fed to stimulate growth with lower interest rates.


"The Fed's easy time is over. It is between a rock and a hard
place," said David Kotok at Cumberland Advisors.


"The Fed won't raise rates soon because of the economic data.
They cannot lower them because the sacrifice ratio is too high
and the inflation news is worsening."


Markets have become resigned to the fact that no interest rate
cut is coming, and now turn to the spate of earnings news that
provides a snapshot of corporate America's health.


The news on the earnings front is also lukewarm.


The market expected profit growth in the range of three to four
percent after a long string of double-digit growth, said Bob
Doll, chief investment officer at Blackrock.


"One factor that has been helping to push equity markets higher
despite evidence of slowing economic and earnings growth has been
ongoing corporate deal activity, which has been driven by a
combination of high levels of cash available to companies and
attractive equity valuation levels," Doll said.


"We believe that the global economic backdrop remains healthy and
conducive to continued good equity market performance. The
potential danger of a hard economic landing in the United States
remains, although we believe such an event has a low probability
of occurring."


He said that despite slowing economic growth and weakening
corporate profits growth, "we do not believe these events will
mark the end of the current bull market."


In the coming week, the market digests quarterly results from
Citigroup, Coca- Cola, IBM and Intel, among others.


"Due to the intense focus on earnings, volatility is likely to
increase over the next few weeks," said Gregory Drahuschak at
Janney Montgomery Scott.


"The market's reaction to the coming barrage of earnings reports
is likely to set the market tone for a relatively long period. So
far, the market has shrugged off inflation worries, higher rates
and higher energy prices and instead has chosen to rely on
earnings growth to be a significant offset.


"If the market loses its earnings prop, stocks could languish for
a time until one or more of the macro-economic drags disappear or
earnings growth re- accelerates," he said.


Bond values declined over the past week. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury bond rose to 4.761 percent against 4.674 percent a week
earlier while the 30-year bond yield increased to 4.926 percent
from 4.868. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

