

Blackburn Rovers manager Mark Hughes has told his players they
need to hit the ground running if they are to have any chance of
defeating Chelsea in the FA Cup semi-final at Old Trafford on
Sunday.


Otherwise, he said, Jose Mourinho's side could run away with the
tie if the Lancashire underdogs allow them to get their noses in
front early on.


Hughes says he was hugely impressed with Chelsea in midweek when
Michael Essien's late winner at Valencia put them into the
Champions League semi-finals.


"Chelsea played exceptionally well against Valencia. To go there
under difficult circumstances and qualify was fantastic for
them," he said.


"They are an exceptional side and, when they get noses in front,
they do not usually give any opportunities for the opposition.


"What marks them down as champions is their winning mentality.


"So we know it is going to be very difficult as they are very
adept at protecting a lead and seeing the game through.


"We have to start positively if we want to go on and win the
game."


Hughes believes the semi-final represents a glorious chance for
his players to erase the bitter memory of losing to Arsenal at
this stage of the competition in 2005.


The defeat was not a huge upset, but Blackburn were slammed for
an apparent negative and physical approach at the Millennium
Stadium.


Hughes insists the class of 2007 is a different breed and they
have the quality to dismantle Chelsea.


"We bore the consequences of that Arsenal match for quite some
time. We probably still do on occasions.


"But we are a lot different from that day in Cardiff both in
attitude and personnel.


"While Chelsea have individual talent that can turn games on
their head, we have players who can do that as well.


"People like Benni McCarthy can produce moments of magic. So too
can the likes of David Bentley and Morten Gamst Pedersen,
especially from set pieces.


Hughes also paid tribute to veteran American goalkeeper Brad
Friedel, who he said loves the big stage.


"Brad is a big influence on and off the pitch. He is one of the
senior players I speak to regularly to get a feeling about the
squad.


"He is very influential and, more often than not, when he plays
well, we play well."


Mourino, with doubts swirling about his head over his future at
the end of the season, insists he is fully concentrated on the
job on hand as his side goes for an unprecedented quadruple.


"Because of our situation in the competitions. In this moment you
don't have much time to spend with other things," he said.


"If in this moment I was not playing Champions League and FA Cup
and all of these things, if I was just coming here in the
morning, training and going home with not a lot of matches, maybe
I would have time to think about the future.


"Success is about groups. When we fail I accept the manager is
the face of the failure, when we win I don't accept the manager
is the face of the success.


"The players have been absolutely fantastic. The injured guys,
the way they recovered, they way they go to the team and perform
immediately.


"The boys like Frank Lampard, Ricardo Carvalho, Didier Drogba,
these people that play since the first day of the season have
been unbelievable.


On his own position, Mourinho said he wanted to stay on at
Stamford Bridge, but indicated that he had yet to get full
backing on his decision from the club.


"I love the club, I love English football. I can say for example
that we have told the school that we want to keep their place
next season," he said.

