

Bangladesh and Ireland play for pride in their Super Eights match
here on Sunday, hoping they can repeat the performances which saw
them dump two former champions out of the World Cup.


Bangladesh beat India by five wickets in a group match while
Ireland, making their debut in the showpiece event, caused a
bigger stir with a three-wicket upset of Pakistan which sent the
1992 champions packing.


Sunday's fixture was supposed to be a high-profile India-Pakistan
clash, but Bangladesh still feel proud to be representing Asia
and hope to finish among the top six in the Super Eight table.


"We are focused for our last two games and we hope to win both of
them to finish our best World Cup in a befitting manner," said
Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar, whose team also play the West
Indies here on April 19.


Bangladesh, who caused another upset with a 67-run win against
South Africa, hope New Zealand down Graeme Smith's men on
Saturday to keep their slim hopes of a semi-final place alive.


Defending champions Australia have already reached the last four
with a ruthless demolition of Ireland by nine wickets here on
Friday, while Sri Lanka (eight points in five matches), New
Zealand (eight from five) are more or less through to the semi-
finals.


South Africa (six points from five), England (four from five),
Bangladesh (two from five) and the West Indies (two from five)
are also in the running for the last place.


"We know it's difficult and our defeat against England has almost
shattered our chances, but we know Ireland can be dangerous and
we have to be alert," said Bashar, whose team fought hard in
their four-wicket defeat against England on Wednesday.


"Overall I'm happy with my team's performance in the World Cup.
We lost a couple of close games and won a couple of big games. We
still have two more games to play in this competition and we will
try to push hard."


For Ireland the bigger incentive is to break into the ICC
(International Cricket Council) one-day rankings for the first
time by beating Bangladesh.


An ICC Associate team need to beat two Test playing countries to
take the 12th place in the ICC one-day rankings.


Ireland captain Trent Johnston said his team will train hard to
pick themselves after being routed by Australia.


"Bangldesh pose a different sort of challenge than Australia.
Bangladesh have quality spinners and we have been squeezed by the
spinners in the middle overs so it's one area we have to guard,"
said Johnston.


"After watching Bangladesh beating South Afica we know they have
good spinners and we will do our best to counter them and train
hard and see what happens."


Johnston hoped both teams live up to fans' expectations -- most
of whom had booked tickets in an anticipation of a India-Pakistan
encounter.


"Certainly we would like to play like that, we are going to come
out and not get dispatched like we did against Australia. We
don't want to disappoint ourselves and the Irish fans who have
come here to watch these matches.


"We want to do what we did in Jamaica and want to send them home
happy."

