

Refugee advocates and health groups accused Australian Prime
Minister John Howard of discrimination Saturday after he
suggested banning HIV-positive migrants from entering the
country.


Howard, whose conservative government has introduced stringent
immigration restrictions since winning power in 1996, said he
would consider legislative changes to stop HIV-positive migrants
from settling in Australia.


"My initial reaction is no (they should not be allowed in),"
Howard told commercial radio Friday.


"There may be some humanitarian considerations that could temper
that in certain cases, but, prima facie -- no."


Howard was responding to an official study showing the number of
people infected with the virus moving to Victoria state had
quadrupled in the past two years and that some of these people
were migrants.


But the Victorian AIDS Council said overseas arrivals accounted
for only nine of the 334 new HIV notifications in the state last
year and it was wrong to single out immigrants as a source of
infection.


"That number is incredibly low," council president Mike Kennedy
told Melbourne's Age newspaper. "In Australia the bulk of the
epidemic is gay men."


Under current requirements, all permanent resident applicants
over 15 are tested for HIV and tuberculosis but are not
automatically rejected, the West Australian newspaper reported.


Victorian Refugee Action Collective spokesman Tim Peterson said
Australia had an obligation to shelter asylum seekers regardless
of their HIV status.


"This is a cruel and heartless position from Howard that panders
to people's worst fears without having any basis in fact,"
Peterson told AFP.


"It continues to scapegoat refugees. We've seen Howard do this
again and again, he's tried to link refugees to terrorism, he's
warned people Australia will be flooded with refugees -- now he's
blaming them for HIV infection.


"I've seen no evidence linking migrants to HIV rates in Australia
and the prime minister should stop trying to whip up fears about
a vulnerable section of the community."


University of Melbourne infectious diseases specialist Chris
Lemoh, who is completing a doctorate on HIV and AIDS in
Victoria's African communities, said Howard's comments unfairly
singled out migrants.


Lemoh said most cases of HIV in Australia were acquired in the
country and excluding migrants with the disease would achieve
nothing.


"It's a hysterical overreaction, it mixes racism with a phobia
about infectious disease," he told Australian Associated Press.


"I think to not allow people to come on the basis of any health
condition is immoral, it's unethical and it's impractical to
enforce.


"Most of the people who acquire HIV acquire it here and most of
them are born here," he said.


The Asylum Seeker Resource Centre's Pamela Curr said Howard's
comments scapegoated migrants and smacked of racism against
refugees from Africa.


"The mud is thrown, so everyone thinks, 'those filthy refugees,'
particularly 'those black refugees'," she said.


Curr suggested Howard, who faces an election later this year, was
responding to comments in December from right-wing firebrand
Pauline Hanson in which she criticised the arrival of black South
Africans.


"We're bringing in people from South Africa at the moment,
there's a huge amount coming into Australia, who have diseases,
they've got AIDS," Hanson said at the time.


"They are of no benefit to this country whatsoever, they'll never
be able to work."


Australia ran successful HIV/AIDS education campaigns in the
1980s which have kept the disease in check here but the disease
is spreading rapidly in neighbouring Pacific countries such as
Papua New Guinea.

