

As chief plastic surgeon of Grenoble's University Hospital,
Doctor Bernard Raphael witnessed what he calls the worst upheaval
in public health care when the 35-hour workweek was brought in.


"Our hospital was already struggling with insufficient
resources," said Raphael. "When the 35-hour workweek came along,
we were asphyxiated."


"We had 7,500 employees, and we needed to hire 550 new staff to
fill the gap from the shorter workweek. We were only able to hire
230," he said.


"We brought in nurses from across Europe and our own faculties of
medicine were unable to churn out enough doctors."


The result has been the closure of operating theaters,
administrative offices that shut down before four o'clock in the
afternoon and above all, "fewer of the sick are getting treated,"
he said.


"It was the worst disruption ever experienced in public health
care," said Raphael, who has written to the main candidates in
the presidential election on April 22 to ask them to fix the
problem.


France's flagship 35-hour workweek is headed for uncharted waters
as the main contenders are having to spell out what lies ahead
for the legislation, considered the centerpiece of the former
Socialist government.


Rightwing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy once described the shorter
workweek as "France's number one problem" and is proposing a
series of tax and other incentives to encourage employees to work
longer hours.


"I want 35 hours to no longer be a ceiling, but rather a baseline
for work," Sarkozy, 52, the candidate of the governing party, has
said during a campaign where he has waxed poetic on the theme of
restoring the value of hard work.


Socialist rival Segolene Royal, 53, has been at pains to address
the shortcomings from the shorter workweek, saying she wants to
"consolidate" it but also make "adjustments" to correct problems.


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou, 55, has also promised to get
rid of the "perverse effects" that the measure has had on some
businesses, without completely gutting the legislation.


Adopted in 2000 at a time of double-digit unemployment, the
legislation is credited for having created some 300,000 jobs
through a complex series of measures, including billions of euros
in state subsidies.


Under the law, employees who work more than 35 hours are
compensated with extra days off.


But critics point to inequalities in the workplace as employees
from the public sector and big businesses now enjoy up to 12
weeks of vacation compared to six or seven for workers in the
private sector.


The new president elected in the May 6 runoff will have the final
word on the ongoing debate when he or she faces a 2009 deadline
for extending the shorter workweek to businesses with fewer than
20 employees.


Unique in Europe, the legislation that reduced the number of
working hours from 39 to 35 is accused by business groups and
rightwing politicians of having turned the French into a nation
of sloths.


"France chose to work less and become old just as China and India
had decided to conquer the Western markets and change the world
economic landscape," said Laurence Parisot, the president of
French employers' union MEDEF, in her recently published book "In
Need of Air."


France ranks just behind Sweden, Finland and Norway for the
number of hours worked by a full-time employee, according to the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).


A French employee works an average of 1,563 hours per year, 195
hours less than his British counterpart while full-time workers
in Germany clock in 136 more hours per year.


The CFDT labour union, which says it has successfully
renegotiated several contracts to defuse problems with the
35-hour workweek, laments that candidates are turning the shorter
workweek into a scapegoat for France's economic ills.


"It's not by scrapping the 35-hour workweek that you are going to
resolve the problem of creating wealth and weak purchasing
power," said Laurence Laigo, national secretary of the CFDT
union.


"We have structural unemployment, growing numbers of working poor
and employees whose work conditions are precarious, these are the
problems," she said.


Overall, polls show that the French are happy with the additional
leisure time, which is probably why none of the candidates have
waged a full-frontal attack on the workweek.

