

The United States embassy in Algiers has warned that militants
may be planning new terror attacks in the centre of the capital
on Saturday.


"According to unconfirmed information, there may be attacks in
Algiers planned for April 14, 2007 in areas that may include the
Algiers Central Post Office ... and Algerian State Television
Headquarters, ENTV.., among others," an embassy statement said.


"The Embassy will be open for business as usual on Saturday,
April 14, but is restricting the movement of personnel in the
city in response to this information. Algeria remains under a
Travel Warning."


Two suicide bomb attacks in Algiers on Wednesday killed 33 people
and injured more than 220.


One of the blasts was outside the government headquarters, near
the central post office, and the other targeted a police station
on the main road to Algiers airport.


The bombings were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa,
formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC), which published photographs of what it said were the
three bombers on the Internet.


Those attacks came only a day after three suicide bombers blew
themselves up and a fourth was killed by police in the Moroccan
city of Casablanca.


Moroccan officials said they did not believe the incidents were
related, but the attacks have fueled regional fears of a
resurgence in militant activity following crackdowns by north
African governments.


Algerian authorities on Thursday ordered extra security forces
onto the streets in response to the Algiers bombings.


But on Saturday morning, no special security measures were
visible at the central post office or the television
headquarters, mentioned in the US embassy travel warning.


On March 13, the US embassy in Algiers warned Americans of a
possible terror attack against flights carrying Western workers
in Algeria.


Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem has insisted that
national elections scheduled for May 17 will go ahead despite
Wednesday's attacks.


The United States has condemned the latest suicide blasts in
Algeria and Morocco and said it is helping both countries hunt
down those responsible.

