

Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf hit out at his Afghan
counterpart Friday, saying on US television he was "very angry"
at criticism of Pakistani progress in fighting cross-border
terrorism.


"Pakistan is being maligned by the West ... unfairly" in
criticism that it is not doing enough to root out terrorists on
its soil and to help crush the Taliban Islamist movement in
Afghanistan, Musharraf told CBS television news.


He blamed the criticism on a "total lack of understanding of the
environment and reality by President (Hamid) Karzai himself."
Asked if he was "angry" with Afghanistan's US-backed leader, he
replied: "Yes, indeed. Very angry."


Musharraf, an army general who took power in a military coup in
1999, is an ally of the United States in its anti-terrorism drive
launched after the attacks of September 11, 2001.


He has since come under intense pressure from Washington to catch
fighters linked to the Taliban and the Al-Qaeda network who are
said to be hiding out on Pakistani soil.


Insurgents have been retreating into Pakistan across its volatile
western border after launching attacks on Afghanistan, where US
and other NATO-led forces face a resurgent offensive by the
Taliban.


But Musharraf dismissed as "absolute nonsense" a claim by Karzai
that the wanted Taliban leader Mullah Omar --  a close ally of
Al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden -- was hiding out in Pakistan.


Parts of the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan are lawless
tribal zones not controlled by the central authorities. But
Pakistan has signed peace deals with some of the Islamic clans,
despite criticism from Western allies.


Musharraf said on Thursday that tribesmen in the South Waziristan
tribal area had killed 300 foreign militants of the Al-Qaeda
network, with help from the Pakistani military.


But he rejected "absolutely and totally" on Friday the prospect
of a joint US- Pakistan military operation to pursue retreating
insurgents inside Pakistan.


"The whole population of Pakistan will rise against it," he said.

