

The deadline for North Korea to shut down its Yongbyon atomic
reactor and invite UN inspectors arrived Saturday, as the
communist state promised to honour a commitment to scrap its
nuclear programme.


However, there was no sign that Pyongyang had acted as required
by a February deal to take initial steps towards disarmament,
with analysts divided on whether the communist state was willing
to honour its part of the agreement.


UN International Atomic Energy Agency head Mohamed ElBaradei had
said that, when invited, a technical delegation would first visit
North Korea to discuss methods for inspection.


Their visit would be followed by a full team of inspectors to
examine the shutting down of the Yongbyon reactor some 90
kilometres (56 miles) north of Pyongyang.


US chief nuclear envoy Christopher Hill said in Beijing that he
would meet with his Chinese counterpart Wu Dawei on Saturday to
discuss "where we stand on the February 13 agreement and how the
Chinese assess the way ahead."


Assistant Secretary of State Hill also said he would be in touch
by phone with other partners in six-nation nuclear disarmament
talks, although he said he had no immediate plans to meet with
North Korean envoy Kim Kye-Gwan.


Hill urged North Korea on Friday to call in the UN inspectors
immediately or face international reaction for failing to uphold
the February denuclearisation agreement.


His demand came after North Korea promised Friday to start
scrapping its nuclear programme once it confirmed that a long-
running dispute over millions of dollars in frozen assets had
been resolved.


The North's foreign ministry said it would "confirm soon" whether
its funds in a Macau bank have been unfrozen as the US says,
raising hopes of progress in implementing the six-nation
denuclearisation agreement.


North Korea had refused to move till it got its money back.


"This Friday statement is aimed to ease concerns that Pyongyang
may not honour its part of the deal as the April 14 deadline
comes," said Kim Keun-Sik, an analyst at the University of North
Korean Studies.


"North Korea is likely to start taking the initial steps within
30 days after the release of the frozen funds is confirmed," he
said.


Under the deal, the funds were supposed to be released within 30
days from February 13 and Pyongyang should have shut down
Yongbyon within 60 days by April 14.


But the solution of the frozen funds problem has been delayed for
"technical reasons," the analyst said.


"If Pyongyang sought to tear apart the deal, it would have not
invited Bill Richardson to Pyongyang," he said in reference to
the visit this month by the New Mexico state governor, who
returned with remains of six US soldiers killed during the Korean
War.


Richardson said he believed Pyongyang would eventually shut down
its nuclear reactor, but would likely delay the move by several
days.


"Probably they won't make the deadline, but a few days after, I
believe, they will meet their obligations," he told US National
Public Radio on Friday.


But Baek Seung-Joo with the Korea Institute for Defence Analysis
said the money issue was merely a pretext for Pyongyang to drag
its feet on its promise to abandon its nuclear programmes.


"First of all, I don't think (North Korean leader) Kim Jong-Il
will give up nuclear weapons until he comes to a firm belief that
his regime will survive without atomic weapons," Baek said.


US officials said Friday that North Korea was virtually certain
to miss the weekend deadline, although they added this would not
necessarily lead to a collapse of the deal.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said Friday that as
long as all sides remain committed, "it's important not to be
bound to the date but to carry out the agreed steps in a stable
way."

