

IMF policymakers on Saturday are to press on with a campaign to
save their 60 -year-old body from irrelevance at a time when
their sister institution, the World Bank, has been shaken by a
pay scandal involving its president, Paul Wolfowitz.


The International Monetary Fund's steering committee,
representing the Fund's 185 members, is struggling to implement
far-reaching reforms against opposition from richer powers that
fear a loss of influence.


The committee's one-day meeting here is also competing for
attention from a burgeoning scandal at the World Bank, its
partner in international finance and development, which has
riveted global financial circles.


Wolfowitz, after a stormy two-year tenure at the bank, is facing
a barrage of calls from bank staffers and advocacy groups to
resign despite having won the backing of the US government.


He stands stands accused of helping arrange a massive pay hike
for his Libyan- born girlfriend, former World Bank communications
specialist Shaha Riza, when she was transferred to the US State
Department in 2005.


Wolfowitz on Thursday admitted to errors in the procedure under
which the pay package was approved and on Friday received the
support of President George W. Bush, for whom as a deputy
secretary of defense he helped plan the Iraq war.


But he still faces an open revolt from outraged World Bank
employees pressing for his departure.


Bank policymakers are due to convene here Sunday, after which
Wolfowitz is scheduled to address a press conference alongside
IMF counterpart Rodrigo de Rato.


The weekend meetings of the Fund and the Bank were preceeded
Friday by a gathering of Group of Seven finance chiefs, who threw
weight Friday behind an ongoing reform drive aimed at preserving
the "relevance and legitimacy" of the IMF.


They said the overhaul, the first stage of which was approved by
the IMF at a meeting in Singapore last September, should ensure
that dynamic emerging market economies are better represented.


The Fund last September agreed to increase the voting power in
the IMF of China, South Korea, Turkey and Mexico as a first step.


The G7 officials, representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States, at their meeting Friday in
addition contended "the voice of low income countries should be
enhanced" as well.


They said a World Trade Organization deal to tear down global
trade barriers was "imperative," following a measure of progress
achieved by leading players at talks in India.


"Substantially lowering tariffs and other barriers is essential
to spur new growth in global trade and reduce poverty," the G7
ministers said after their latest talks.


But analysts have cautioned that the reform drive actually
appears to be confronting a roadblock.


Rato admitted this week that no breakthrough was on the horizon
for the global financial policeman's planned revamp.


"The problem is some political decision(making)," he said,
expressing hope that the IMF can "narrow down" a new voting
formula for its members by the autumn and then get down to
detailed changes.


Under US and European domination since its inception towards the
end of World War II, the IMF has traditionally been a lender of
last resort to countries embroiled in financial crisis.


But 10 years after crisis swept through East Asian economies, the
IMF is seen as barely relevant to fast-emerging powers like
China.


In a second phase of reform, Rato hopes for a broader
redistribution of votes while preserving the say of its poorest
countries. But that means some countries, such as the United
States and European powers, would have to lose out.


"They're rearranging the deckchairs on the Titanic," said Mark
Weisbrot, co- director of the Center for Economic and Policy
Research in Washington, who argued that the IMF faces an
inexorable loss of power.


"This is an institution that's been controlled by the US for 60
years. They're not going to give that up," he said.


Talk of an Asian monetary fund has revived, while Latin American
countries are moving ahead with their own multilateral lending
initiative.


Meanwhile, a slew of countries such as like Argentina and Brazil
have been paying off their IMF debts early, eager to escape the
Washington institution's economic tutelage.

