

Turkish threats of a military incursion into northern Iraq to
pursue Kurdish rebels represent a hardening line in Ankara amid
exasperation with US inaction against the militants and what it
sees as growing defiance of Kurdish leaders in control of the
region, analysts say.


Army chief Yasar Buyukanit on Thursday became the first such
high-ranking military official to publicly argue for a cross-
border operation and ask for government permission to send troops
to crack down on bases of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK) in northern Iraq.


"If you ask me whether a cross-border operation is needed, yes it
is needed. It would be useful," Buyukanit told a press conference
here.


Indignation is Turkey is growing over Iraqi and US failure to
fulfill pledges to eradicate the PKK and recent Iraqi Kurdish
threats, said Serhat Erkman, an expert on the Middle East at the
Ankara-based think-tank ASAM.


"As a result, Turkish leaders have begun to stress more openly
the need to implement economic, political and 'other' measures,
besides diplomacy, to resolve the issue," he said.


Turkey charges that several thousand PKK rebels have found refuge
in northern Iraq where they enjoy unrestricted movement and
obtain weapons and explosives for attacks on Turkish targets in
their 22-year struggle for self-rule in southeastern Turkey.


Ten Turkish soldiers and 29 rebels were killed this month -- in
the heaviest fighting between the PKK and the army in a long time
-- as the arrival of spring makes the mountainous crossing
between Iraq and Turkey more accessible to the rebels.


Ankara accuses Iraqi Kurds of tolerating and even supporting the
rebels.


Tensions between the two sides rose this week after Massud
Barzani, the head of the autonomous Kurdish region in northern
Iraq, threatened to fan unrest in Turkey's Kurdish-populated
southeast if Ankara continues to oppose Kurdish claims on the
oil-rich ethnically volatile Iraqi city of Kirkuk.


Turkey claims that thousands of Kurds have moved into Kirkuk to
change its demography ahead of a referendum on Kirkuk's future
status, scheduled for the end of the year, and has called for the
postponement of the vote.


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad --  a prospect it fears could set up an
example for Kurds in adjoining southeast Turkey.


At Thursday's press conference, Buyukanit described Barzani's
words as unacceptable and implicitly accused the United States of
emboldening the Iraqi Kurdish leader. "We all know who has spoilt
(Barzani)," the general said.


"This was the first time in Turkish history that an army chief
has challenged the United States without giving names," said
Sedat Laciner, the head of the Ankara-based think-tank USAK.


"Turkey has long waited for the United States to do something
about PKK rebels, but Barzani's remarks were the last straw," he
added. "We are gradually moving towards a military incursion.
Turkey is not bluffing."


Washington opposes a possible Turkish incursion into northern
Iraq, which it fears would destabilise the relatively calm area,
and has instead argued for non-military means.


"Certainly that's an option that everybody should work to avoid,"
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Thursday in
response to Buyukanit's remarks.


Dogu Ergil, a professor of political science at Ankara
University, described Washington's stance as an argument that no
longer convinces Ankara.


"It is a great contradiction that the United States, which has
invaded Iraq, tells Turkey that a military option is not such a
good idea," Ergil said.


There is a high possibility that Turkey could engage in a cross-
border operation after presidential elections in May, he added.


"Buyukanit has clearly underlined that Turkey is ready to launch
a large-scale operation in Iraq, no matter what the United States
or Iraqi Kurds say," he said.

