

An astute kicking game in greasy conditions by the Coastal Sharks
saw them knock the Auckland Blues off the top of the Super 14
ladder with a 32-25 victory in a niggly encounter here Saturday.


Although the Sharks remain in third place, the win underscored
their credentials as serious title contenders while exposing
cracks in the Blues' armour.


They snapped a six-game winning streak by the Blues, who have
been the competition pacemakers throughout the season and who now
face three tough assignments on the road.


The Blues, who salvaged a bonus point with a late try by Daniel
Braid, now slip to second on points differential behind the
Canterbury Crusaders, who earlier thrashed the Otago Highlanders
38-3.


Teenage flyhalf Francois Steyn and fullback Percy Montgomery
guided the Sharks to their win with prodigious kicking in the
rain, which kept the Blues on the back foot in a game that had
plenty of niggle in the tight exchanges.


Blues midfield back Sam Tuitupou was yellow-carded for punching
in the second half and halfback Steve Devine was also given a
stern warning by referee Stuart Dickinson.


When play began, following a 20-minute delay after fire alarms
went off under the main grandstand, Odwa Ndungane put the Sharks
on the board with a try in the fifth minute.


Isa Nacewa replied with a penalty for the Blues but that was as
close as the home side would get to the lead.


The Sharks came back with two penalties by Montgomery, a booming
60-metre field goal by Steyn and a try to JP Pietersen, to
another penalty by Nacewa, and led 19-6 at the turn.


Pietersen struck again soon after the resumption of play.


When Montgomery forced the Blues back to their line with a kick
to the corner, a fast-following Pietersen charged down Ben
Atiga's clearing kick and pounced on the ball for an easy try.


With the Blues in trouble, coach David Nucifora brought out his
heavyweight reinforcements Keven Mealamu and Ali Williams and was
immediately rewarded when Mealamu drove over the line.


Steyn kicked his second field goal, this time from close range,
to open up a 29-13 lead, and when the Blues came back with a try
to David Gibson, Steyn replied with a penalty.


It was then left to Braid to score on full time, with Nacewa's
conversion closing the gap to seven points and meaning a crucial
bonus point.


But the honours were clearly with the more committed Sharks, who
handled the conditions better than the Blues.


The Sharks' next assignment on their New Zealand tour takes them
to Hamilton next week and the fourth-placed Waikato Chiefs, who
earlier Saturday thrashed the Western Force 64-36.

