

British police were on Saturday studying whether the exiled
Russian multi- millionaire Boris Berezovsky broke laws here by
calling for the violent overthrow of President Vladimir Putin.


As Moscow renewed an extradition request for Berezovsky after his
call for "direct action" against Putin and the British government
condemned his words, observers said it was a new blow to already
fractious Anglo-Russian relations.


Berezovsky sought to backtrack from his initial remarks, which
appeared in The Guardian newspaper Friday where he called for the
use of "force" to oust the Russian leader and agreed he was
fomenting a revolution.


"Elections are not a viable means of ensuring democratic change
in Russia. Therefore I do support using other methods to push for
a change back towards democracy," he said later.


"However, I wish to make very clear that all of these methods
would be bloodless... I do support direct action. I do not
advocate or support violence."


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she "deplored" any call
for the overthrow of a sovereign state, as several British
newspapers Saturday said London had been given a fresh diplomatic
headache.


"We expect everyone living or working in, or visiting the United
Kingdom, whatever their status, to observe our laws and
regulations," she said, adding that the interior ministry was
looking at the comments.


Scotland Yard also said Friday evening it was "assessing the
contents of a Guardian article... to determine if any offences
may have been disclosed".


" We will also be liaising with (prosecutors) in due course," a
spokesman said. "We do not have an investigation as we speak. We
are assessing to see if one is required."


In Russia, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted by the
Interfax news agency as saying: "Calls for the violent overthrow
of the political authorities are sufficient grounds to undertake
the relevant measures."


Prosecutor General Yury Chaika added: "I have given the order to
open a criminal case insofar as he (Berezovsky) openly called for
the overthrow of the constitutional authorities in Russia."


Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov, who on Saturday was
to head an anti- Putin march in Moscow, distanced himself from
the comments.


"Government is using such firing statements to accuse us of
preparing the armed resistance, some sort of violence, while we
are sticking with the very peaceful actions," he told the BBC.


Berezovsky, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003. London has
repeatedly refused Moscow's request for him to be extradited to
face fraud charges.


Lavrov said Berezovsky was "crudely abusing" his status as a
political refugee and "undertaking actions which under British
legislation demand his extradition".


Anglo-Russian relations were strained after the radioactive
poisoning murder of former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko
last year.


Berezovsky was an associate of Litvinenko and was among those who
accused Moscow of involvement in the poisoning. Russia has
repeatedly denied the charge.


British police questioned him last month on behalf of Russian
investigators probing his death.


The Guardian Saturday assessed that Berezovsky's comments would
damage relations at a time when Russian co-operation is vital to
keep up the pressure on Iran over its disputed nuclear programme.


It also said the furore would probably sink all hopes of British
police successfully extraditing Russian suspects over
Litveninko's death.


"Britain would privately like to be shot of Mr Berezovsky, but
knows it is inconceivable that a British court would rule he
would get a fair trial in Moscow," it added.

