

The United States wants to compete in  multibillion dollar deals
to sell fighter jets to India in a bid to further firm up ties
after their landmark nuclear pact, an official said Friday.


India has traditionally relied on Russia for its combat jets
because of its frosty ties with Washington during the Cold War
but the signing of a civilian nuclear deal recently has paved the
way for multifaceted cooperation.


"The next opportunity to take the step ahead beyond the nuclear
agreement is the competition in India for the multirole combat
aircraft because historically, the United States has not been
able to compete for Indian defense procurement," said US
Undersecretary of Commerce Franklin Lavin.


"Now it's a new era, it's a new relationship, the defense
relationship is improving," Lavin told a joint forum of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry.


US and Indian officials had "a number of discussions" on the
aircraft deals and "our major providers intend to compete for
this," he said.


Amid the warm ties, American aircraft manufacturers are hoping to
penetrate the Indian defense market, especially their requirement
for 126 multi-role fighter aircraft valued up to 10 billion
dollars in the next decade.


Lavin indicated that Washington might have to review its export
control laws to enable Americans to bid for the Indian contracts.


"From the Indian perspective, they will have access to very fine
products and from a US perceptive ... this helps our system think
through this licensing and export control system because they
have a specific proposal in front of them that they have to
respond to, so that is a healthy development as well," he said.


Although the United States has removed most of the sanctions
imposed on India for its 1998 nuclear tests, it still has export
controls on sensitive items and technologies, which may have to
be reviewed if US firms want to sell fighter jets to New Delhi.


The Indian government, under a new defense procurement policy,
requires suppliers to spend or invest 30 percent of the contract
value in designing, technology development, co-production and
related activities in India.


Despite improving ties, India has been wary of forging deals with
US weapons suppliers over fears that Washington could reimpose
sanctions and choke off vital spare parts and technology.


"The challenge is that the relationship between US and India is
moving so rapidly ahead that sometimes the licensing approval
regime doesn't always keep up -- so you got to continually adjust
that to reflect the fact that it is a very different
relationship," Lavin said.


Washington made a rare exception to US law to pave the way for US
sales of nuclear fuel and technology to India under the civilian
atomic deal, details of which are still being worked out.


On investment and trade ties, Lavin called on India to review its
limits on foreign investment and ownership in businesses and
lower its tariffs, which he said were still high compared with
the rest of the world.


"India's tariffs average more than 20 percent, and in some cases
tariffs are more than 100 percent. Compare India's average tariff
on industrial goods of 10 percent to the US four percent
average," he said.


On reforms in India, Lavin said the United States was prepared to
work with it in the postal sector to allow competition from
express delivery companies as well as in the elimination of non-
tariff barriers to trade in medical devices.


It was also willing to cooperate with India in liberalizing its
financial sector in a bid to create a regional financial center
in the flourishing business hub of Mumbai, and open access to
foreign broadcasting and cable television, Lavin said.

