

UN chief Ban Ki-moon said Friday he was sending his top legal
adviser on a high- stakes mission to Beirut to help Lebanon break
the impasse on setting up an international court to try suspects
in Lebanese ex-premier Rafiq Hariri's murder.


"I intend to dispatch Nicolas Michel to Lebanon next week to
offer his legal assistance to the Lebanese government and
political leaders to help" secure Lebanese ratification of a deal
to set up the UN-backed court, Ban told reporters.


Michel, the UN undersecretary general for legal affairs, said he
would arrive in Lebanon Tuesday "to assist the Lebanese ... in a
spirit of national dialogue, reconciliation, mutual
understanding" to establish the court.


"We are going there to succeed and for this we need the
cooperation of all Lebanese parties," he said, adding that the
aim of the tribunal will be to help the Lebanese "create
conditions for a lasting peace."


Hariri and 22 others were killed in a massive bomb blast in
February 2005 in Beirut. An initial UN enquiry report implicated
Damascus in the slaying but Syria has denied involvement.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament.


"Justice must be done, the truth must be found," Michel said.


With the backing of 70 Lebanese lawmakers, Saad Hariri, the son
of the murdered leader, wants the UN Security Council to bypass
the political paralysis in Lebanon over the tribunal.


But Lebanon's pro-Syrian opposition objects to the way the pro-
Western Beirut government has handled plans to create the court
under UN auspices. It has so far managed to block all moves to
set it up.


Michel said that while "the functioning of the tribunal will come
at a later stage ... at least now there is a need for certainty
as to the establishment of the legal basis for the tribunal."


Asked whether his mission was a last-ditch attempt to get the
Lebanese to agree before the Security Council takes over the
issue, Michel said: "everybody understands that there is an
element of time here."


"We do hope that it will be possible to achieve that through the
approval of the agreement. This is clearly at this stage the
preferred option."


Michel said that on his return from his mission he would brief
the Security Council, which will then have to rule on the issue.


Ban's office said Wednesday that the UN chief was studying a
letter he received from Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Siniora.


Lebanese officials said the letter asked Ban to bring the issue
before the 15-member UN Security Council "to study alternative
ways and means to establish quickly the international tribunal."


Lebanon's pro-Western parliamentary majority accuses allies of
Syria of trying to block the creation of the tribunal under
pressure from Damascus.


The parliament speaker Nabih Berri of the pro-Syrian opposition
has refused to allow the government to submit a bill that would
authorize the court, effectively blocking the tribunal's
creation.


Earlier this month, he asked Saudi Arabia to arrange a meeting of
Lebanon's political rivals to break the impasse. Berri also asked
for Michel to be present, according to Ban.


Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia provides substantial financial aid
to Beirut and has close links with the Siniora government.

