

He may be nearly 100 years old, but Brazilian architect Oscar
Niemeyer works as hard as ever to surprise and astonish with his
designs inspired by the sensual curves of the female form.


"What is important in designing a project is to create a
surprise. Architecture is done by governments for the rich. Poor
people don't get to take part, but they can be brought to a halt
in front of a building which is so different that it sparks a
moment of surprise and emotion," Niemeyer said.


Niemeyer pioneered the use of reinforced concrete as an
architectural material, and was the man who oversaw the project
to create Brazil's futuristic new capital, Brasilia.


Now every afternoon the 99-year-old, with a seven-decade career
behind him, still sits down at his drawing board at the bay
window of his Rio workshop overlooking the sweeping, lively
Copacabana beach.


"I draw alone. Architecture is very personal. Every architect
must have his own architecture, do what he wants to do and not
what others would like him to do," Niemeyer told AFP in an
interview puffing on a cigarillo.


In December he will celebrate his 100th birthday, but even at
this great age Niemeyer certainly has no plans to slow down
despite the legacy of some 400 breath-taking buildings which he
has already bequeathed to the world.


"Beauty is indispensable in architecture and the beauty of a
woman is fundamental," said Niemeyer, considered one of world's
most important modern architects.


"When I was young, I thought that when I was with a woman there
was nothing more important in the world. Later, I realized that
was a slightly egotistical view," he said wryly.


His love of the female form though has shaped his designs and is
a recurrent theme. Now his life's work is to be celebrated by his
native country with a series of commemorations before his 100th
birthday on December 15.


Events were kick-started with the inauguration last week of a new
theatre in Niteroi, close to Rio, designed by the master himself,
and attended by Culture Minister Gilberto Gil.


Niemeyer's grandson, the photographer Kadu Niemeyer, has also
just organized an exhibition tracing the last 70 years of his
work at the Paco Imperial Museum in Rio with models, photos and
sketches of some of his 400 projects.


More than 70 can be found in countries as diverse as Algeria,
Italy, Israel and the United States.


But France, where Niemeyer lived for several years after fleeing
the Brazilian dictatorship hosts 16 of his works, including the
headquarters of the French Communist Party in Paris.


Other Niemeyer designs include the Serpentine Gallery in Hyde
Park, London, and the Penang State Mosque in Malaysia. In 1988 he
was awarded the Pritzker Prize, the world's top architecture
prize.


A confirmed Communist, Niemeyer is a personal friend of Cuban
leader Fidel Castro, and is particularly proud of the theatre he
designed in Havana.


He is also a supporter of Venezuelan firebrand Hugo Chavez, and
has presented him with plans to build a monument to Latin
American independence hero Simon Bolivar which will be "the
biggest reinforced concrete structure in the world."


"Chavez is important in the region confronted with a President
(George W.) Bush who is becoming increasingly violent."


After fracturing his pelvis in December, Niemeyer does not get
out and about as much as before, but he refuses to give in to old
age.


"I try to resist, to adapt. I try to think like a young person.
I'm still as interested in life as I was when I was young. My
recipe is not to give in to old age, think that you are still 40
years old and act as if you were.


"Today I believe that life is over in a heartbeat, that it is
more important than architecture.


"We have to realize that we are only passing through, and that
life is full of both pleasure and pain. Above all you have to
live life, honestly."

