

Organizers of 2016 Olympic bids from Los Angeles and Chicago were
confident Friday on the eve of a US Olympic Committee Board of
Directors meeting here to decide which city's dream moves
forward.


In the wake of New York's failed 2012 Olympic bid, both groups
have already started pitching themselves as the best hope for
obtaining the 60 International Olympic Committee votes needed in
October of 2009 to win the 2016 Games.


"We feel very confident, quietly so, but very steadfast," Los
Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said. "We want to stage what
will be the next generation of the Olympic Games.


"It's about how we get to 60 votes. We do have the facilities,
the housing, the diversity. We will be a really good decision to
get those votes. We will work hard to do it. I think we're the
right choice."


Insurance businessman Patrick Ryan, Chicago's bid group chairman,
agreed that the key to winning is demonstrating the ability to
defeat a global field of rivals that already includes Tokyo, Rio
de Janeiro and Czech capital Prague.


"We're not cocky but we're confident we have a great, great bid,"
Ryan said. "Both cities have the same requirement - to
demonstrate we can get the 60 international votes."


The 11-member US Olympic Committee (USOC) board includes chairman
Peter Ueberroth, who led the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics organizing
committee, and IOC members James Easton, Anita DeFrantz and Bob
Ctvrtlik.


A decision is expected at about 4 p.m. (2000 GMT) Saturday.


Ctvrtlik, USOC International vice president, led a candidate
evaluation panel that included three other board members. The
group did not make a recommendation to the board but fine-tuned
details of both bids.


"We will have the most developed bid in the history of the United
States going forward," Ctvrtlik said.


"The evaluation commission has been helpful in providing
information for our board," USOC chief executive Jim Scherr said.


First Chicago, then Los Angeles will make a final one-hour
presentation in private to the board. Members will be seated in a
hotel meeting room at tables arranged like a horseshoe with a
screen at the open end.


"The final presentation is very important and I think it will be
decisive," Ctvrtlik said.


"We have two excellent cities who could host an excellent Olympic
Games," Scherr said. "I believe our board will have a difficult
decision in front of it when it makes its decision."


Six Los Angeles presenters include retired Olympic triple jumper
Willie Banks, retired Olympic gymnast Peter Vidmar and Tim
Leiweke, an executive with AEG, the sports entertainment firm of
billionaire Philip Anschutz.


Retired Olympic triple jumper Mike Conley and mayor Richard M.
Daley will be among Chicago's presenters.


"You won't see any celebrities. We're not pulling out rabbits,"
Ryan said. "It's all about us demonstrating we can win the
international votes."


"We want to really show the rest of the world what our city is
all about and what America is all about," Daley said.


"It has to come from the soul. It can't just be a lot of words
and pictures. You have to have that passion and commitment. You
have to have a love affair with the city.


"If you're not a little nervous, you're not ready."


Los Angeles, which hosted the 1932 and 1984 Olympics, offers
established venues but a sprawling area to stage the Games.


Chicago offers a more compact location but must construct a
village and an 80,000-seat main stadium, a temporary facility
that will be dismantled into an 5,000-seat amphitheater after the
Olympics if Chicago wins the bid.


"Chicago presented a very comprehensive set of guarantees and
commitments on the village and the stadium," Ctvrtlik said. "Now
we have to see what the board thinks."

