

The Waikato Chiefs muscled their way into the Super 14 top four
with an overwhelming 64-36 win over the Western Force in a 14-try
spectacular here Saturday.


The Chiefs recovered from a slow start to run in nine of the
tries to put themselves firmly in play-off contention despite
winning just four of their 10 outings, and benefiting from nine
bonus points.


In a match which produced a staggering 100 points, the Chiefs'
attacking ability was the standout feature, but questions were
raised about their defence as they leaked six tries.


"We attacked with purpose and ran hard and asked questions of
them. It's a bit of a tick in the attack box but we have a bit
more work to do on defence," said winning captain Jono Gibbes.


For Force coach John Mitchell it was a heartbreaking "homecoming"
to the ground where he established himself in rugby circles
playing for Waikato as he watched his side concede more than 50
points for the second week in a row.


After falling 0-3 behind from an early Stephen Donald penalty,
the Force took the lead in the third minute with a try to captain
Nathan Sharpe.


They were on the point of scoring again minutes later when a
crucial Roy Kinikinilau intercept saw the Chiefs wing race 80
metres to score at the other end.


That was the first of three tries to Kinikinilau as the Chiefs
woke from their malaise and they had their bonus point try by
halftime when they led 29-15.


Replacement scrumhalf Brendon Leonard also scored a hattrick,
with the Chiefs' other tries coming from Lelia Masaga, Tanerau
Latimer and Tasesa Lavea, while Donald landed five conversions
and three penalties.


The Force started the second half as they did the first, going
straight on to attack and scoring early points.


But again they could not sustain the pressure and quickly yielded
the momentum to the Chiefs.


Matt Giteau contributed 21 points for the Force from two tries,
four conversions and a penalty.


Sharpe, Cameron Shepherd and Drew Mitchell added the remaining
tries.

