

South American leaders will gather on Monday to discuss energy
integration projects at a summit hosted by Hugo Chavez, oil-rich
Venezuela's firebrand president whose opposition to ethanol puts
him at odds with his Brazilian counterpart.


The two-day summit on Venezuela's Margarita island is expected to
focus largely on regional projects promoted by Venezuela, the
only Latin American member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC).


The South American leaders will also discuss ethanol, a biofuel
whose global production is dominated by Brazil and the United
States, which respectively produce it from sugarcane and from
corn.


Aides said Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva would
reiterate his commitment to the expansion of ethanol, which he
highlighted in talks with George W. Bush when the US president
toured the region last month.


Both Chavez and his Cuban ally Fidel Castro have warned increased
ethanol production would fuel global hunger by using up arable
land needed for food production.


But the Venezuelan president insisted he would not pick a fight
with Brazil's moderate leftist leader.


"We will never fight with Lula, we will never fight with Brazil.
Our enemy is the US empire," Chavez said.


"The issue is not ethanol as an additive. The issue is the US
empire wanting to substitute gasoline with ethanol. That's
crazy."


But US Ambassador William Brownfield said on Friday Washington
hoped the energy summit would help promote the development of the
biofuel.


"We believe ethanol is an important and possibly essential
element in conversations over energy for the future," he told
journalists.


"Ethanol is not the solution for the 21st century, but without
doubt, it is part of the solution."


Leaders at the summit also planned to discuss an ambitious
project to build a 5,000-mile (8,000-kilometer) pipeline to
deliver natural gas from Venezuela to Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia,
Paraguay and Uruguay.


Brazil and Venezuela agreed in January to move ahead with the
first stage of the project, which would take the pipeline to the
Brazilian city of Recife.


Chavez is also certain to highlight his country's Petro-America
project that sells crude at preferential prices to impoverished
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.


Buoyed by high oil prices, Venezuela is also building refineries
in Cuba, Brazil, Jamaica, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay and
Uruguay.


On the global scene, Venezuela, together with Iran, is promoting
the creation of an OPEC-like cartel for natural gas exporting
countries. Both countries' energy ministers discussed the idea
during a two-day gathering in Doha earlier this month.


The presidents of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela are scheduled to
attend the April 16-17 First South American Energy Summit on Isla
Margarita, off Venezuela's Caribbean coast.

