

The Nigerian electoral agency INEC said Friday here that it will
not release piece-meal the results of the general elections which
begin Saturday with state governorship and parliamentary polls.


"Only complete and definitive election results will be announced.
There is no provision for release of bits and and pieces of
result for any election," the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) said in a statement.


In the statement, the INEC informed election observers, the
international community, the media and the general public that it
has the sole authority to announce election results.


"Incoming or unfolding results will not be released to the public
or published. Any such result anywhere, even if it is found on
the Commission's website, should be disregarded," the statement
said.


The INEC statement made public about a dozen "hotlines" to
provide "prompt response" to inquiries and relevant observations
on the election.


Earlier Friday, President Olusegun Obasanjo said his government
would deal firmly with any acts of violence or fraud during the
staggered polls starting Saturday in Africa's biggest democracy.


"Let me assure all Nigerians that the federal government will
leave no stone unturned in vigorously checking and sanctioning
any acts of violence and thuggery and other excesses calculated
to disturb the peace or disrupt the elections," Obasanjo said in
a radio and television broadcast.


More than 100 people have died in election-related violence
across Nigeria since November 2006, according to a recent report
by the New York-based rights watchdog Human Rights Watch.


Local media also report daily election-related killings across
the country, Africa's most populous nation and top oil producer.


Obasanjo said the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC) and other government agencies had taken steps to ensure "a
peaceful, free, fair, and transparent" poll.


The INEC had "made adequate arrangements for the release of
authentic election results," he said, adding: "Any false results
declared by any other source to misinform the public, cause
confusion and disrupt the election process will be seriously
dealt with."


State legislative and governorship polls will be held on Saturday
while the presidential and national assembly elections are due on
April 21.

