

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said late Friday he wants to
keep the United States' economic relationship with China on an
"even keel" amid rising trade tensions between the two nations.


Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of meetings between Group
of Seven finance ministers, days after Washington formally lodged
a WTO complaint on Chinese copyright piracy, Paulson said it was
natural for some trade tensions to occur.


"When you have trade and strong economic relations there are
going to be tensions, we have mechanisms in place to deal with
some of those tensions, we have WTO processes," the US treasury
chief said.


"My job is to work with my Chinese counterparts and work on this
relationship which is multi-faceted. But the economic
relationship is going to be very important, we want to keep that
on an even keel," the former Goldman Sachs chief stressed.


The US government lodged its complaint before the World Trade
Organization in Geneva on Tuesday as fake DVDs and counterfeited
luxury goods soured relations between the two trading giants.


Under WTO rules, the two countries have 60 days to try to iron
out their differences in bilateral negotiations.


If they do not reach agreement, Washington will have the right to
demand WTO arbitration.


The United States could then gain the right to impose retaliatory
duties and tariffs on Chinese imports if a WTO settlement panel
ultimately rules in its favour.


Paulson appeared to be optimistic that the United States will be
able to resolve its trade disputes with Beijing, especially
against the backdrop of the two countries' deepening trade
relations.


"I tend to look at it as a glass half full rather than a glass
half empty," he said, saying that "five years ago we didn't have
a lot of trade with China and today we do have a lot of trade,
and as far as I'm concerned this benefits both countries."


Earlier Friday, US government figures showed America's
politically sensitive trade deficit with China shrunk 13.3
percent from a month earlier to 18.4 billion dollars.


Despite the drop, the US trade gap with China still represents
about a third of the overall US deficit with its major trading
partners.

