

Few of the Japanese commuters hurrying to work seem to even
notice Shinji Nakayama, let alone stop to buy the magazine he
holds aloft for as many as 12 hours a day, come rain or shine.


Some passers-by think he is a member of a religious sect or too
lazy to get a 'proper' job.


In a country where people are often reluctant to ask for help,
standing on the streets selling a magazine that aims to give
homeless people an income is anything but easy for the 56-year-
old former construction worker.


"It takes courage in the beginning to stand holding the magazine
when you're not used to it," Nakayama said in the shadow of Osaka
City Hall in western Japan, wrapped in a scarf and woolly hat to
keep out the winter wind.


"People don't have the habit of helping. They don't understand
our situation," he said.


Nakayama has been without a permanent home for three years but
now earns up to 100,000 yen (850 dollars, 630 euros) a month
selling the magazine, giving him enough money to spend the night
in a local flophouse.


"Every day I wake up at 5:30 am. I ride my bicycle to get the
magazines and I work until 7:00 pm with no lunch break," he said.
"I get hungry, but if I don't earn enough money I can't do
anything about it."


Japan's economy may be in the midst of its longest recovery since
World War II, but "The Big Issue Japan" still has no shortage of
salespeople, who must be homeless or in a vulnerable housing
situation to become vendors.


Shoji Sano, 65, the founder of the twice-monthly magazine, admits
he would like a few more readers though.


"There isn't a tradition here of selling and buying magazines on
the street. Japanese people up to now are not accustomed to it,"
he said at the paper's modest headquarters in downtown Osaka.


Japanese people often have a negative view of people working on
the street, he added.


"People misunderstand us because they think we're another
religious sect and that we're distributing publicity pamphlets,"
he said.


Sano was born and raised in Osaka, which is home to Japan's
largest homeless population -- 4,911 people out of 18,564 across
the country, according to a government survey released last week.


Thanks to Japan's economic recovery and efforts by the government
to move people off the streets, the number of rough sleepers has
been on the decline across the country in recent years.


When Sano started the magazine in 2003 the number of homeless in
Osaka stood at about 6,600, not including thousands more in
temporary accommodation.


Their plight moved him to give up a steady job in research after
attending a workshop on homelessness where he learned about the
work of Mel Young, the founder of the Scottish version of the
original London-based Big Issue.


Sano decided to fly to Scotland to meet Mel Young, who then asked
him how many homeless there were in his hometown.


"We replied that there were at least 10,000 homeless people in
Osaka. 'What are you doing wasting your time talking here then?'
Mel asked. So that's how we decided to start the project," said
Sano.


So far it has been a hard slog. He works at least six days a week
and gets no pay, as the magazine's finances are still running in
the red.


After less than four years, the magazine has a circulation of
about 40,000 -- still well below the original Big Issue's sales
of over 122,000 in England and Wales, which have a combined
population about half the size of Japan's.


But Sano points out that the London-based Big Issue has been in
print since 1991 while it is still early days for the Japanese
version, which started in September 2003, offering a mix of
articles about Japan or interviews and other material translated
from the British-based sister publications.


For Sano, the magazine is about more than just money. He hopes it
will also help change Japanese attitudes to homelessness, which
was almost unknown here until the economic bubble burst in the
early 1990s.


"The view that they are lazy is still strong. But at the same
time more and more young people are finding themselves without
jobs," he said.


"There is a growing feeling of insecurity in Japanese society, so
I think that the sense of empathy is slowly increasing.


"The Big Issue might have contributed to a small change in
people's attitudes -- that even in the sweltering heat of summer
or the freezing winter, these people are working," he said.


Finding advertisers can also be a problem as many companies don't
want their brand image to be associated with homelessness.


The magazine now has about 120 vendors. Over three years more
than 550 people have registered for the job, but 60 percent
decide that it is not for them and quit within one month.


"Standing in the middle of the street holding up this magazine is
the same thing as telling people 'I'm homeless,'" Sano said.


"There is a lot of misunderstanding. We need to resolve that."

