

The euro surged to a two-year high against the dollar Friday as
the greenback was buffeted by worries about weakening growth and
a persistently high trade deficit as global finance leaders met
in Washington.


The single currency stood at 1.3532 dollars at 2100 GMT, compared
with 1.3480 dollars in New York late on Thursday, hitting its
highest point since January 2005.


The euro approached its all-time high of 1.3666 hit on December
30, 2004 and also set an all-time record at 161.42 yen.


The euro later dipped to 161.32 yen from 160.62 a day earlier.


The dollar meanwhile edged up to 119.22 yen compared with 119.14
late on Thursday.


The market action came just as the Group of Seven finance
ministers and central bank governors prepared to conclude
deliberations on the health of the global economy.


Analysts said that questions about global imbalances suggest the
leaders are content to see a weaker dollar as a means to
alleviate these worries.


"The US dollar remains in the realm of the trader hell with
torture being applied from a potential trade war, potential
economic slowdown, and potential G7 action on carry trades," said
Andrew Busch at BMO Capital Markets.


"There are major arguments made among the economic elite over
whether the US dollar should have a continuous devaluation to
help the country erase its enormous trade/current account
deficit. A weaker greenback would improve the competitive footing
of US exporters and make US imports more expensive."


The dollar got little relief from a better-than-expected report
on the US trade deficit.


The deficit fell slightly to 58.4 billion dollars in February
from 58.9 billion in January, the Commerce Department reported.
The figure was a bit better than the average analyst estimate of
a deficit of 60.5 billion dollars.


Robert Brusca of FAO Economics said that despite the improvement
in the deficit, US exports failed to pick up. The narrowing came
from a drop in both imports and exports.


"We must therefore conclude that the weakness in US exports
reflects weakness abroad," Brusca said.


"Despite all the upbeat forecasts on Europe and the IMF's
(International Monetary Fund's) recent missive on growth, US
exports -- a real world litmus test -- tell us that activity is
waning in the markets into which the US sells its goods."


The dollar has also been depressed since European Central Bank
chief Jean-Claude signalled that it was ready to raise eurozone
borrowing costs again in June.


Trichet sent a clear signal that the bank was set to raise its
key interest rates -- already at a five-and-a-half-year high --
still further in June, after holding rates at 3.75 percent on
Thursday.


"Characterizing monetary policy as still accommodative, he
(Trichet) underpinned the expectation of another 0.25 point
increase in the refinancing rate in the eurozone before mid-
year," said Paul Chertkow, head of global currency research at
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in London.


The euro has been buoyed in recent weeks by favourable interest
rate differentials, analysts said.


In contrast with the ECB, the US Federal Reserve appeared to open
the door to a cut in American borrowing costs last month as it
kept rates unchanged at 5.25 percent.


Market players were cautious on Friday ahead of the G7 meeting
amid speculation that the yen could become a topic of discussion,
if only behind closed doors.


The weakening Japanese yen is causing consternation in European
capitals, where finance chiefs are worried that the yen-euro
exchange rate is penalizing eurozone exporters.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2144 Swiss francs
from 1.2167 Thursday.


The British pound fetched 1.9866 dollars after 1.9785.

