

The Palestine Liberation Organisation has adopted measures to
"isolate" Fatah al-Islam, an Islamist grouping blamed for deadly
bombings in Lebanon, the PLO representative in Beirut said.


"We are attempting to isolate Fatah al-Islam because we do not
want the Palestinians to be perceived as an element of
instability in Lebanon," Abbas Ziki told AFP in an interview on
Friday.


Last month, Lebanese Interior Minister Hassan Sabeh said detained
members of Fatah al-Islam had admitted carrying out bus bombings
in a mountain village on February 13 that killed three people.


But Fatah al-Islam, a small grouping which first came to be known
last November and which is based in the Palestinian refugee camp
of Nahr al-Bared in northern Lebanon, has denied any involvement
in the attacks,


Ziki said Lebanese authorities were holding 15 members of the
Islamist grouping over the bus attacks.


Outlining the steps being taken, Ziki said the PLO military and
political factions were determined to contain Fatah al-Islam,
although without resorting to violence.


"We have named a new military command, created a joint
intervention force and released funds," said Ziki.


He said the measures involve close PLO cooperation with the
Lebanese armed forces which do not have access to the camps that
are controlled by Palestinian armed factions.


Ziki said the funds are "a financial assistance for the people of
Nahr al-Bared and the reactivation of medical and social
services" in a bid to counter the growing Islamist wave in the
camp.


"They (Islamists) are attracting young people by using enormous
financial means, they are teaching them how to handle arms at a
time when the Palestinian Authority is facing a financial
blockade," he said.


"We want to cut the grass under the feet of the Islamists," he
said.


"Poverty has spread in the camps... and the refugees are deprived
of their most elementary civic and human rights," said Ziki.


Lebanon has been shaken by a spate of political violence over the
past three years, notably a series of assassinations targeting
figures opposed to the country's once-dominant neighbour Syria.
Lebanese authorities say Fatah al-Islam is manipulated by Syrian
intelligence services.


The Islamist grouping denies links with the Al-Qaeda
international terror network, although its leaders have said that
the two groups "follow the same (religious) line and
methodology."


The bus bombings "have stirred bad memories and we have all
understood that Fatah al-Islam wants to harm civil peace in
Lebanon and disturb the new-found harmony between the
Palestinians and the Lebanese," Ziki said.


Ziki reopened the PLO office in Beirut in 2006 after it had been
closed since the 1982 Israeli invasion.


The PLO had established a "state within a state" in Lebanon from
1969 until the Israeli invasion of the country in 1982, at the
height of the Lebanese civil war.

