

Britain's Prince William is once again the most eligible
batchelor in the world following his split from girlfriend Kate
Middleton, which was widely reported Saturday.


William, 24, seems to have it all: second in line to the throne,
scion of one of the richest and noblest families on the planet,
he is both intelligent and blessed with his late mother's good
looks.


After a troubled upbringing -- his parents separated in 1992,
divorced in 1996 and his mother Diana, princess of Wales was
killed in a car crash in 1997 -- it is almost impossible to hear
a bad word said against him.


Indeed, many royal polls have suggested that a sizeable minority
want the crown to pass straight to William from Queen Elizabeth
II, bypassing his father Prince Charles.


By all accounts he is a thoughtful man and a mature head on young
shoulders and seemed well on the way to marriage with Middleton,
following a lengthy romance.


But his reported split from his university sweetheart shocked
many.


Esconced in his barracks, Cornet Wales, as the army officer is
known in the military, is far from Middleton, who works in London
as an accessories buyer for a fashion chain.


The press interest in the couple, the physical distance between
them and his apparent love of the army life were cited in media
reports as one of the reasons for his break-up with Middleton.


His Royal Highness Prince William Arthur Philip Louis was born on
June 21, 1982 in Paddington, central London. He had a classic
British private education and went to Eton, probably the
kingdom's most famous and exclusive school.


His mother, meanwhile, always tried to give him an insight into
life outside the gilded palaces and historic school halls, with
occasional excursions to fast food joints or the cinema.


He is a keen sportsman and enjoys playing football, rugby union,
tennis, swimming and water polo. William revealed in rare
interviews how he enjoyed reading and the cinema, driving his car
and dancing in his spare time.


An athletic 1.90 metres (six feet three inches) tall, William
inherited his father's love of outdoor sports like hunting and
polo.


The prince did well in his exams in 2001, winning a place at the
University of St Andrews, one of Scotland's oldest, to study
history of art. Middleton was on the same course.


The pair were flatmates and began dating in late 2003.


William was reported to have become disillusioned part-way
through his studies and she and his father were credited with
encouraging him to stay on and switch to studying geography
rather than quitting altogether.


Before starting he took a gap year out, including 10 weeks'
voluntary work experience in Chile, where he cleaned a toilet
among other duties.


He also spent time on military manoeuvres in Belize, worked as a
farm hand in southwest England and visited a number of countries
in Africa.


Relatively little is known of his time at St Andrews. Under a
deal reached with Charles, the media agreed to respect his
private life during his studies.


He shared a flat with Middleton and two others, did his own
shopping at the supermarket, wore jeans and pullovers with holes
in them, and met his friends over a cider in the pub.


After graduating, he entered the elite Sandhurst military academy
and trained to become an army officer.


William graduated from Sandhurst in December, in front of Queen
Elizabeth and Middleton. It was interpreted as a sign of her
growing acceptance in royal circles.


He joined the Blues and Royals regiment of the Household Cavalry
as a second lieutenant.


In March, he began a two-and-a-half-month course at Bovington
Camp in Dorset, southwest England, training to become a tank
commander.


In the military, he is far away from intruding camera lenses and
surrounded by a tight group of colleagues.


Last month William posed for pictures with his arms around girls
and danced with them on podiums during a boozy, fun-filled
excursion with fellow soldiers when they were allowed out of the
barracks.


The girls told newspapers they were only too happy to party with
the handsome prince.


And his zest for spending time with his new army pals could have
spelt the end for his relationship with Middleton.

