

Ethnic violence sparked a state of emergency in the South Pacific
island nation of Vanuatu last month, but a darker shadow lurked
behind the killings -- witchcraft.


Prime Minister Ham Lini invoked special powers after three people
died in riots following claims that a sorcerer from Ambrym island
had cast a spell that killed a Tannese island woman.


Police launched "Operation Black Spirit" to restore order in the
capital Port Vila, which is home to increasing numbers of people
from the 83 islands of the archipelago nation, but the violence
highlighted the place sorcery holds in the lives of many South
Pacific islanders.


The use of sorcery, known as "nakaimas" in Vanuatu and "puri
puri" in Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, is an everyday
part of life for many people throughout Melanesia.


They claim to use both black sorcery for harming or killing
people, and white sorcery for healing sick people or creating
"love spells" to attract desirable partners.


"It is a grey area for law enforcement because how can you prove
it?" asks Superintendent Willy Ben Calo.


"There is only a very general reference to it in our laws,
stating that it is illegal to use nakaimas against anyone with
intention to do harm, with a penalty of two years imprisonment,"
he told AFP.


"But no-one has ever been convicted in this country, although a
few people have been before the courts on it."


Just days before the eruption of violence in Port Vila, the
horrors associated with a belief in sorcery were also
demonstrated in nearby Papua New Guinea, where two women accused
of being witches were tortured to death.


The behaviour of the mob that beat the elderly women and set them
on fire in the Papuan port city of Lae was described by regional
police chief Giossi Labi as "animalistic and inhuman."


Reports of women being tortured and killed after being accused of
witchcraft in the Papua New Guinea in recent years have been
linked at times to the growing death toll from AIDS.


Researchers have reported that sorcery has frequently been blamed
for the deaths of young people which were seen by villagers as
otherwise inexplicable.


In Vanuatu, while many agree that the use of nakaimas should be
punished, the role played by "klevas" (sorcerers) is also a
source of pride in some communities where traditional customs are
strong.


Klevas are believed to have the ability to communicate with
ancestral spirits, still revered in many communities.


Mary-Anne, a kleva from Ambrym island who didn't want to give her
real name because of the tensions, said she only used her skills
to heal the sick or help people attract a sexual partner using
special herbs and incantations.


She spoke to AFP as she treated a newly married woman, mixing
bush leaves and water in a coconut shell to cleanse her blood and
give her "strength" in the "feminine arts" now that she is a
wife.


Klevas are often the only source of knowledge of traditional bush
medicine in remote islands isolated from hospitals and modern
medicine.


"A lot of grass-roots people don't have access to proper health
posts and often they can't afford the medicine anyway," said
Mary-Anne.


"This role was passed to me through the generations and I will
continue to do it. Sometimes people from the bush are frightened
to go into hospitals, so they come and see me."


Mary-Anne pointed out that while people blame klevas when a
relative or friend dies, they are not the only ones involved in
"faith healing" that can go wrong.


Vanuatu, like many Pacific nations, has seen a rise in
Pentecostal Christian churches in recent years, with some
charismatic preachers claiming to be able to heal the sick in the
name of Jesus Christ.


"I have a friend whose brother was sick, but his family said that
if they all prayed hard and listened to Jesus, then he would be
healed," said Mary-Anne.


"He should have gone to hospital, but he died in the village."


The debate was fired up further following the riots when a member
of parliament from Efate island, home to Port Vila, blamed the
Vanuatu Cultural Centre for encouraging the use of nakaimas and
old customs.


Joshua Kalsakau said the people of Vanuatu were now Christian and
should move on.


"I feel that as leaders we must remind cultural authorities that
in 1845 missionaries brought light to the people of Efate," he
said in a statement.


"This is clearly stated in our (national) motto: 'Long God Yumi
Stanap (In God We Stand)'.


"Our motto does not state: 'Long spirit blong ol bubu yumi stanap
(In Ancestral Spirits We Stand)'."


The MP's charges were rebutted in the local press by the director
of the Vanuatu Cultural Centre, Marcellino Abong.


"The Cultural Centre does not promote black magic but we are
responsible for making sure that our valuable customs are
preserved," Abong told The Vanuatu Daily Post.


Abong suggested that parliament pass legislation making it
compulsory for autopsies to be done on alleged victims of sorcery
"to end speculations about black magic".


That could clear up some cases in the future, but a widely-held
belief in ancestral spirits and sorcery looks set to remain a
part of island life for a long time to come.

