

In an embarrassing setback for US efforts to support the
embattled government in Baghdad, an international panel charged
with selecting countries to attend a prestigious meeting of the
world's democracies has deemed Iraq unfit to attend, officials
said Friday.


Four years after US-led troops toppled Saddam Hussein with the
stated goal of creating a haven of democracy in the Middle East,
the blue ribbon committee said Iraq did not meet the criteria to
attend the November meeting of the Community of Democracies.


The decision by the advisory committee to the Community marked a
step backward for Iraq, which was invited as an observer to the
grouping's last biannual meeting in Chile in 2005, with US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in attendance.


At that conference, Rice hailed recent elections in Iraq and
Afghanistan as milestones in the development of global democracy
and successes of the so-called "freedom agenda" of President
George W. Bush.


Two years later, with both governments struggling to impose their
authority, the advisory panel comprising more than a dozen former
heads of state, politicians, human rights experts and academics
has rendered its judgement.


Iraq should be kept from the next meeting due to its "continuing
inability to establish an accountable state," while Afghanistan
was downgraded to observer status, according to the committee's
coordinator, Ted Piccone, executive director of the Washington-
based Democracy Coalition Project.


Russia was also dropped from the invitation list as the committee
deemed there had been an "erosion of rights" under President
Vladimir Putin.


Thailand and Fiji were also dropped following military takeovers
last year, while the "democratic credentials" of Bahrain, East
Timor and Armenia were called into question.


The committee recommended withholding judgment on Venezuela "to
allow further scrutiny" of the government of President Hugo
Chavez, Piccone said.


While the panel judged that presidential elections last year had
been largely free and fair, it questioned steps by Chavez to
consolidate his power through decrees and other measures.


In all, the panel recommended inviting 100 states as participants
to the meeting in Bamako, Mali. Another 18 were suggested as
observers while 54 governments were rejected as undemocratic.


The recommendations were sent to the Community's 16-nation
Convening Group on March 28, with a final decision on who will be
invited expected in June, Piccone said.


The Convening Group, which includes the United States, was
expected to follow most of the committee's suggestions even
though the initial response from State Department officials was
displeasure over the treatment of its two client states.


"They were not happy with the positions the committee took on
Iraq and Afghanistan," Piccone said.

