

Britain's Prince William and his longtime girlfriend, Kate
Middleton, who had widely been expected to marry, have split up,
the Sun newspaper reported Saturday.


The mass circulation daily said the news would come as a shock to
all but their closest circle, as the couple had been believed
only weeks away from announcing their intention to wed.


The paper quoted a close friend as saying the pressures had
become too much for them, particularly because the 24-year-old
prince's military duties meant they were rarely together and
because of the enormous media interest in Kate, living alone in
London.


"As far as Kate is concerned, William simply hasn't paid her
enough attention," the friend said. "She is stuck in London while
he is living in an officer's mess in Dorset. Kate feels hugely
frustrated."


Clarence House, the office which handles the prince's affairs,
refused to confirm the split, saying "We don't comment on Prince
William's private life."


The couple had been going out for four years.


The prince, who is second in line to the throne, met Kate in 2001
at St. Andrew's University in Scotland where they shared a flat
with two other students. They quickly became inseparable.


They were first seen in public together on the ski slopes at the
chic Swiss resort of Klosters in April 2004.


But according to the Sun, their relationship had been on a
downward spiral since the future king passed out from the Royal
Military Academy in Sandhurst in December last year.


Now a fully-fledged officer in the Blues and Royals, the prince
has thrown himself into army life, preferring to go out drinking
with his colleagues than drive back to London to see Kate,
friends told the paper.


He recently began a two-and-a-month tank commander course in the
county of Dorset, which means that he spends Monday to Friday
each week on an isolated base in the middle of the countryside.


According to the Sun, the fact that his time has been fully taken
up with his military career has put further pressure on Kate.


"At university they were living together. Now, nearly three years
on, they are lucky if they see each other once a week," it quoted
a close friend as saying.


"When he does get a night off, it appears to Kate that William
would rather spend time drinking with his new-found army pals."


At 24, the prince also feels he is too young to marry and refuses
to be rushed into it, friends told the Sun.


The last time the pair were seen together was at Cheltenham
Racing Festival, when they wore matching tweeds.


The Sun said Kate, who works as a part-time buyer for a fashion
company, would spend the weekend with her self-made millionaire
parents talking over the "amicable decision to split."


When Kate celebrated her 25th birthday in January she was
harassed by paparazzi who see her as a new Princess Diana, the
prince's late glamorous mother, who died 10 years ago in a Paris
car crash while she was being pursued by reporters.

