

Ireland captain Trent Johnston believes his team can improve if
they get more exposure against top teams like Australia despite
suffering a nine-wicket mauling at the hands of the world
champions here on Friday.


"It's necessary for our development," said Johnston whose team
was shot out for a paltry 91 in the World Cup Super Eights match
at Kensington Oval.


Australia had the match wrapped up by lunch after skipper Ricky
Ponting won the toss and decided to give his bowlers a workout on
a bouncy pitch.


Glenn McGrath (3-17) and Shaun Tait (3-39) made the match between
the defending champions and the debutants a no-contest by
removing the top four for 12 runs inside five overs.


Australia then stormed into the semi-finals by chasing down the
target in just 12.2 overs.


"You learn with such experience, so with more exposure against
high profile teams we can do better," said Johnston whose team
now face Bangladesh here on Sunday and Sri Lanka on April 18 in
Grenada.


"Up until against Australia we did well. We knew that Australia
would be a big challenge. We must take one positive in that we
played the best sides in the world and have learned something."


Ireland dumped Pakistan out of the World Cup with a three-wicket
upset win after playing a tied game against Zimbabwe in the group
stages.


"I knew it was going be tough. Australia are not two-time world
champions going for a third for nothing," said the Australian-
born Johnston who took the only wicket to fall when he clean-
bowled Adam Gilchrist.


"We have been outclassed by a world class team. We wanted to be
competitive but it didn't turn out that way. Unfortunately such
starts don't allow you to be competitive and they have been the
best team for the last ten years.


Johnson hoped his batsmen learn from facing quality bowlers like
McGrath and Tait.


"They were great. It was nice to play quality bowlers like they
are. Our top four couldn't get runs," said Johnston, one of only
three batsmen to reach double figures with 17.


John Mooney top-scored with 23, while Kevin O'Brien made 16.


Ireland's South Africa-born coach Adrian Birrell conceded
Australia provided the toughest test.


"They got into us right from the beginning. They bowled well and
our top order got us into trouble and we could never get out of
it and lost badly," said Birrell.


Birrell felt for the crowd whose day out ended before lunchtime.


"We wished we could have done better for them and given them
better entertainment."

