

Ivory Coast's new prime minister and ex-rebel leader Guillaume
Soro appealed on Friday for reconciliation in the war-divided
country as a new amnesty law came into effect.


"We must now learn how to forgive. It is the price we have to pay
for reconciliation to be possible," Soro said in his first
address to the nation since taking up office two weeks ago.


He made the appeal as President Laurent Gbagbo signed into law an
amnesty for crimes committed during the country's civil conflict,
to foster reconciliation and give a fresh boost to the unfolding
new peace process in the west African country split into two by
four years of war.


The amnesty, which will apply only to crimes involving national
security, is part of last month's historic peace agreement signed
between Gbagbo and Soro to reunite the country.


"Violations against state security and national defence committed
by Ivorians ... are fully pardoned," the new law said.


Declaring that he is not standing for elections to be organised
later this year to cap the fragile peace scheme, Soro, 34, said
his government's main objective is resolve the political crisis.
Presidential aspirants have to be at least 40 years old under the
country's laws.


A lasting solution to the crisis rocking the country would be
achieved through a population identification scheme,
reunification of the rebel and government forces and
"organisation of fair and transparent elections open to all," he
said.


Gbagbo and Soro secured a landmark peace deal brokered by Burkina
Faso to end the low-key but protracted civil conflict in this
cocoa rich-country, which has been politically and militarily
divided for the past four years.


The agreement, which gave Soro the post of prime minister, also
allowed for the end of the geographical split of the country by
removing a foreign-patrolled buffer zone separating the rebel-
held north and government-run south.


The zone is to be cleared in a phased process starting Monday.


Years of mediation talks led by the UN, African Union and South
Africa among others, laboured over issues such as disarmament and
identification of voters.


But Soro was optimistic the contentious issues will finally be
resolved.


"The primary goal is the resolution of the thorny problem of
general identification of the population," he said, assuring his
compatriots that "all Ivorians will be identified by the end of
this process".


Up to 3.5 million of the more than 16 million Ivorians are
undocumented according to government estimates.


An attempt at a population identification exercise last year
sparked bloody protests and renewed tension in the west African
country, where the issue of who is really Ivorian has been at the
core of the civil conflict.


Gbagbo's supporters had been vehemently opposed to the
identification process, charging that the rebels controlling the
northern half of the country could try to claim Ivorian
citizenship for millions of immigrants who could vote against
Gbagbo in the oft-delayed presidential polls.


The clemency law covers the period starting September 17, 2000,
the day the house of the former military ruler Robert Guei came
under attack from his own guards, to April 12, 2007.


A UN-backed panel of foreign mediators, made up of United
Nations, African and Western diplomats, meantime met in Abidjan
Friday on how to respond to the peace deal, which sidelined the
original UN plan for Ivory Coast.

