

Thai security forces shot dead three unarmed Muslim boys while
suspected Islamic rebels killed three in separate drive-by
shootings in the country's restive south, police said Saturday.


The shootings came as mainly Buddhist Thailand was on high alert
against possible terror attacks during the five-day Buddhist New
Year holiday, which started on Friday.


Security forces opened fire late Friday after a group of five
Muslim boys ran towards them as they tried to extinguish a blaze
at a mobile phone base station in Pattani, one of three violence-
torn southern provinces.


While the boys were unarmed, police insisted the security forces
acted in self- defence.


"When security forces were working to extinguish the fire, the
five teenagers ran towards them and tried to attack the security
forces," a police official said.


The two boys, aged 13 and 14, were killed late Friday, and
another 14-year-old boy died at a hospital early Saturday, police
said, adding two were wounded.


In nearby Narathiwat province, two Muslim men, aged 26 and 29,
were gunned down by suspected Islamic militants in a drive-by
shooting while they were riding a motorcycle Saturday, police
said.


Also in Narathiwat, a 19-year-old Muslim boy was shot dead late
Friday in another drive-by shooting.


As Thailand celebrated the Buddhist festival, police were
deploying an extra 40,000 officers across the country amid fears
over terror attacks during the holiday.


Apart from the insurgency-hit south, authorities were boosting
security in the Thai capital with more policemen guarding crowded
areas such as train stations, shopping malls and Bangkok's
international airport.


Bomb blasts hit Bangkok on New Year's Eve, killing three and
wounding dozens, including foreign tourists.


The Bangkok attacks were followed by a coordinated arson and
bombing spree across the Muslim-majority south at the start of
the Lunar New Year in February, which left nine dead and 44
injured.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the Thai south bordering Malaysia.


Since a September coup, Thailand's military-installed government
has launched a raft of peace measures, only to see the attacks
escalate in the past six months.

