

Hundreds of thousands of people from all over Turkey gathered
here Saturday for a mass rally aiming to discourage Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a conservative with an Islamist
political past, from running for the presidency.


The crowd, many of them waving the red and white star and
crescent flag of Turkey and bearing portraits of Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk, the founder of the modern republic, filled four major
arteries for a length of several kilometres (miles) as they
marched on Ankara's sprawling Tandogan Square.


From there, under the watchful eye of a 10,000-strong police
presence, chanting slogans and waving placards, they slowly edged
toward the nearby Mausoleum of Ataturk.


Police told the NTV news channel that at least 100,000 people had
arrived by bus from around the country, and Ankara-bound trains
and planes were packed Friday and overnight with people pouring
into the capital for the demonstration.


The organisers, non-government organisations led by the
Association of Ataturk Thought, said they hoped to attract more
than one million people to make their "Rally for the Republic"
one of the largest Turkey has ever seen.


Deniz Baykal, leader of the social-democratic main opposition
Republican People's Party was among the crowd, as was Zeki Sezer,
chairman of the Democratic Left Party.


The crowd chanted "Turkey is secular, it will remain secular" and
waved placards reading, "Democracy does not mean tolerating
reaction," and "Cankaya (site of the presidential palace in
Ankara) will not be home to (religious) sheikhs and
brotherhoods."


Erdogan, who has yet to say whether or not he will run for the
largely symbolic presidency, is widely criticised by Turkey's
secular establishment, including the powerful army, which remains
sceptical of his avowed rejection of his radical Islamist past.


Candidacies for the presidency can be submitted from Monday
morning to midnight on April 25, and many believe Erdogan will
apply for the country's top job.


"They want to slowly transform Turkey into Iran or Saudi Arabia,"
retired teacher Mehlika Erecekler, 44, told AFP, "but they can't
because they're afraid of the army. We support the army."


"God preserve us from sharia (Islamic law)," she said.


Another demonstrator, retired government employee Ayda Aysel, 66,
said: "I've seen my share of coups (in Turkey, where the army
intervened in 1960, 1971 and 1980) and every coup put Turkey back
by 10 years. But if (Erdogan) becomes president, it will put
Turkey back by 100 years."


Many oppose the idea of Erdogan's wife Emine, who always wears
the Islamic headscarf hated by most secularists as a symbol of
religion in politics, becoming Turkey's first lady and one
headscarf-wearing demonstrator agreed.


Durdu Kuran, a 41-year-old agricultural worker from the southern
town of Finike said: "I don't want Erdogan to become president
because he exploits our religion, he exploits the headscarf."


Turkey's president is elected for a single seven-year term by
parliament, where Erdogan's Justice and Development Party holds a
comfortable majority.

