

Wall Street shares defied superstitions that "Friday the 13th"
could derail the market, closing higher after a choppy day's
trade as investor confidence picked up momentum heading into the
weekend.


The major share indexes notched up respectable gains despite some
lackluster corporate earnings reports and lukewarm economic news.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up 59.17 points (0.47
percent) at 12,612.13.


The Nasdaq composite rebounded to close up 11.62 points (0.47
percent) at 2,491.94 while the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-
market index gained 5.05 points (0.35 percent) to 1,452.85.


Superstitions aside, market participants said the coming week's
trading could be volatile depending on whether earnings news
disappoints or pleases investors.


"To people suffering from paraskevidekatriaphobia, the fear of
Friday the 13th, the date is consequential," said Gregory
Drahuschak, a market analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott.


But he said the market was able to overcome these fears and move
higher as the focus shifts to earnings.


"Due to the intense focus on earnings, volatility is likely to
increase over the next few weeks," he said.


Investors appeared generally nonplussed with Friday's US economic
news, despite some upbeat nuggets buried in the reports.


Stocks had oscillated after the government reported that US
wholesale prices jumped a sharp 1.0 percent in March, but an
easing of inflation at the critical "core" level appeared to
soothe some analysts.


The inflation numbers showed that "core" prices, excluding
volatile food and energy costs which are touted by economists as
a better indicator of future trends, were flat, despite
expectations for a 0.2 percent rise.


"Traders seem to be taking heart that inflation doesn't appear to
be spreading to a wider range of goods," said John Wilson, an
equity strategist at Morgan Keegan.


In a separate snapshot, the government also reported that the
vast US trade deficit shrunk to 58.4 billion dollars in February,
as the balance of trade with Asian powerhouse China improved and
petroleum costs dipped.


For the first two months of the year, the deficit had shrunk
about nine percent from a year ago to 117.3 billion dollars,
sparking hopes that a string of widening deficits could be
abating.


As the earnings season gathered pace, diversified conglomerate
General Electric said its first-quarter profits swelled to 4.5
billion dollars on rising equipment sales to the aviation and oil
industries.


GE's shares closed up 20 cents at 35.38 dollars.


Merck also gained attention after a US federal judge Thursday
dismissed an investors' class-action lawsuit against the
pharmaceutical giant related to its Vioxx pain medication.


The investor lawsuit had been filed against Merck over certain
disclosures regarding Vioxx which Merck yanked from the market in
September 2004.


The drug-maker's shares closed up a hefty 3.85 dollars, over
eight percent, at 50.21 dollars.


And US investment bank Morgan Stanley said it was buying 13
Japanese hotels owned by All Nippon Airways Co. for a record 2.4
billion dollars.


The transaction is believed to be the largest real estate deal in
Japanese history.


Morgan Stanley's stock closed down eight cents at 79.89 dollars.


Lower oil prices also helped propel stocks higher as New York
crude prices dipped 22 cents to 63.63 dollars a barrel


Bond prices weakened. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
climbed to 4.761 percent from 4.737 percent late Thursday and
that on the 30-year bond rose to 4.926 percent against 4.910
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

