

Hundreds of riot police and interior ministry soldiers swarmed
into Moscow's historic centre early Saturday ahead of a
flashpoint opposition protest and several rival demonstrations.


The Other Russia, a loose coalition of groups opposed to
President Vladimir Putin, says it will meet at midday (0800 GMT)
on the famed Pushkin Square, despite a ban by city authorities,
who want the opposition protestors to gather at another, less
central site.


By early morning the square, a major crossroads near the Kremlin,
already resembled a military camp.


Twenty two olive green military trucks, each carrying about 30
camouflaged interior ministry troops, could be seen, as well as a
dozen buses carrying several hundred paramilitary OMON police,
equipped with riot gear.


More police vans, buses and trucks designed for carrying
prisoners streamed through snow flurries toward the historic
square.


Under the calm, almost stagnant surface of Russian domestic
politics, tensions are rising ahead of December's parliamentary
polls and a March 2008 presidential election to replace the
outgoing Putin.


The country's beleaguered liberal forces, dominant in the early
1990s, but entirely marginalised during Putin's seven years in
power, claim they have the authorities rattled.


Moscow city authorities have refused The Other Russia, whose
leaders include chess great Gary Kasparov and former prime
minister Mikhail Kasyanov, permission to meet on Pushkin square.
Another location was allocated.


Kasparov, who hopes that 5,000-7,000 supporters will attend,
insists that The Other Russia will attempt to meet at Pushkin,
then march to the authorised demonstration area.


"The right to march and not just to demonstrate is guaranteed by
the constitution and no-one has the right to encroach upon it,"
he told Gazeta daily.


This raises the possibility of a clash both with police and with
activists from the pro-Kremlin youth group Young Guard, which has
been authorised to demonstrate on Pushkin Square.


Meanwhile, two ultra-nationalist groups are planning a
demonstration against immigration across the Moscow river. The
Young Guard will hold yet another gathering by Moscow State
University, and the small liberal SPS party is also planning to
meet.


A spokesman for Moscow police, Viktor Biryukov, told ITAR-TASS
that 9,000 police and interior ministry troops were being
deployed.


"Our colleagues have been ordered to ensure order in a calm,
polite way," he said.


The last two marches by The Other Russia -- one in Saint
Petersburg and one in Nizhny Novgorod -- have been violently
dispersed. A third, held in Moscow last December, gathered
approximately 2,000 people and 7,000 police.


Many of those policing Saturday's event were drafted in from
across Russia. One bus full of police on Pushkin Square was
clearly marked as having come from Nizhny Novgorod, east of
Moscow.


Echo of Moscow radio reported that other regions dispatching
police and troops included Chuvashiya and Urdmurtiya, which are
located between Moscow and the Ural mountains, as well as the
Caucasus province of North Ossetia.

