

Singapore has defended banning some members of the European
Parliament from speaking at a democracy forum, a move the foreign
legislators said proved the country was an "authoritarian" state.


In a statement issued late Friday, Singapore's foreign ministry
said envoys representing the European Union members had met with
a foreign ministry official to ask that the decision be
reconsidered.


"We informed them that as a matter of principle, Singapore
political issues have to be decided by Singaporeans and not
foreigners who had no responsibility for Singapore," the
statement said.


It said however that the legislators were "free to express their
views in the European Parliament or post them on the Internet.
But they should not come to Singapore to participate in a
domestic political event."


Seven members of the European Parliament (MEPs), along with a
member of the Cambodian national assembly and a Filipino
lawmaker, were to have spoken Friday night at a forum organised
by the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP).


But their applications for professional visit passes -- which
would have allowed them to speak at the forum -- were rejected by
the Singapore government on the grounds that the speeches would
not be in the public interest.


The European Union said the visit of the MEPs, who arrived
Thursday night, was to foster greater cooperation between
parliamentarians and democratic parties in Asia and Europe.


The SDP is led by politician Chee Soon Juan, who had suffered
imprisonment and bankruptcy in his long battle against the ruling
People's Action Party (PAP).


The European and Asian legislators belong to the Alliance of
Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) and the Council of Asian
Liberal and Democrats (CALD), respectively.


At a news conference late Friday, the MEPs denounced Singapore's
decision.


"I fear that, in this sense at least, it puts Singapore in a
league with North Korea, Myanmar and the People's Republic of
China," said Graham Watson, a United Kingdom member of the
European Parliament.


"Now that is not where I believe Singapore is, or where I believe
Singapore should be."


Watson, who leads the ALDE, said they were conducting a
parliamentary mission to Singapore and had come from Indonesia
where they spoke at a forum without any interference.


"What has happened today proves that Singapore is an
authoritarian state," said Ignasi Guardans, a Spanish MEP.


Singapore has rarely backed down from international criticisms
about the country's tough laws against dissent and other
political activity, saying they are necessary to ensure stability
which has helped the country achieve economic success.


Thousands of foreign firms have made Singapore, which is
Southeast Asia's most advanced economy and one of the most
politically stable countries in the region, as the base of their
operations.


Singapore's leaders maintain that Western-style liberal democracy
is not suitable for the tiny, multi-racial nation.

