

The deadline for North Korea to shut down its Yongbyon atomic
reactor and invite UN inspectors arrived Saturday, as the
communist state promised to honour a commitment to scrap its
nuclear programme.


Early Saturday, however, there was no sign that Pyongyang had
acted as required by a February deal to take initial steps
towards disarmament, Washington-based Radio Free Asia said.


Quoting an unidentified official at the UN's International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), Radio Free Asia said the nuclear watchdog
had not received the promised invitation from Pyongyang.


Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the IAEA had said that, when invited,
its technical delegation would first visit North Korea to discuss
methods for inspection.


Their visit would be followed by a full team of inspectors to
examine the shutting down of the North's reactor in Yongbyon,
some 90 km (56 miles) north of Pyongyang.


United States chief nuclear envoy Christopher Hill urged North
Korea on Friday to call in the inspectors immediately or face
international reaction for failing to uphold the February
denuclearisation agreement.


When asked in Beijing what Pyongyang could do to meet Saturday's
deadline, Hill said: "They need to call the IAEA."


North Korea promised Friday to start scrapping its nuclear
programme once it confirmed that a long-running dispute over
millions of dollars in frozen assets has been resolved.


The North's foreign ministry said it would "confirm soon" whether
its funds in a Macau bank have been unfrozen as the US says,
raising hopes of progress in implementing the six-nation
denuclearisation agreement.


North Korea had refused to move till it got its money back.


"This Friday statement is aimed to ease concerns that Pyongyang
may not honour its part of the deal as the April 14 deadline
comes," said Kim Keun-Sik, an analyst at the University of North
Korean Studies.


"North Korea is likely to start taking the initial steps within
30 days after the release of the frozen funds is confirmed," he
said.


He noted that under the deal, the frozen funds were supposed to
be released within 30 days from February 13 and Pyongyang should
have shut down Yongbyon within 60 days by April 14.


But the solution of the frozen funds has been delayed for
"technical reasons," the analyst said.


"If Pyongyang sought to tear apart the deal, it would have not
invited Bill Richardson to Pyongyang," he said in reference to
the visit this month by the New Mexico state governor, who
returned with remains of six US soldiers killed during the Korean
War.


US officials said Friday that North Korea was virtually certain
to miss the weekend deadline, although they added this would not
necessarily lead to a collapse of the deal.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said Friday that as
long as all sides remain committed, "it's important not to be
bound to the date but to carry out the agreed steps in a stable
way."


Joel Wit, a scholar who worked at the US State Department as
coordinator for a 1994 nuclear deal with Pyongyang, said
Washington was largely to blame for the delay as it failed to
resolve the issue of the frozen funds in time.


"The US is going to punish North Korea for something the US did?
That's nonsense," Wit was quoted as telling Radio Free Asia.

