

A suicide bomber Saturday blew himself up at the gate of a police
headquarters in eastern Afghanistan, killing at least eight
policemen and wounding 10 others, police and medics said.


The attack in the eastern province of Khost which borders
Pakistan is the latest in a wave of Iraq-style suicide bombings
which have rocked Afghanistan in recent months.


Police had initially said some civilians were also among those
killed but later said there were no civilian casualties in the
attack.


A police witness told AFP he saw the suicide bomber arriving at
the gate and then there was an explosion.


"Eight policeman were killed and 10 others were injured," said
the witness, Salahuddin, who like many Afghans uses only one
name.


He said the man who was on foot tried to enter the police
headquarters but the guards stopped him. He then blew himself up.


"I saw him trying to enter the base. Our policemen guarding the
gate stopped him and he blew himself up right at the gate,"
Salahuddin said. "I was just metres (yards) away. Thank God it
didn't hit me," he said.


Earlier police commander Qasem Khil said that more than a dozen
people including some civilians were killed and wounded in the
blast.


A doctor at the city's hospital said that eight dead bodies --
all policemen -- were brought to the hospital. He said six
wounded police were also admitted.


"We have got so far eight policemen dead, whose bodies were
brought to our hospital," doctor Gul Mohammaddin Mohammadi from
the Khost city hospital told AFP.


Militants from the Taliban regime toppled by a US-led invasion in
2001 have pledged to launch a wave of suicide bombings this year
as the rebels have stepped up their campaign against the US-
backed government of President Hamid Karzai.


Most of the unrest blamed on the Taliban and their Islamist
allies has occurred in southern and eastern Afghanistan where the
militants are most active and are believed to have support
amongst the people.


Last Friday, a suicide car bomb killed six people including a
policemen in the capital Kabul. Eight other civilians were
wounded when another suicide bomber blew up an explosives-filled
car near a NATO-led convoy in the southern city of Kandahar on
Wednesday.


Tens of thousands of international troops -- mainly a
37,000-strong NATO-led International Security Assistance Force --
are based in Afghanistan to defend the Kabul administration
against the Taliban remnants.

