

The Canterbury Crusaders juggernaut continued on its winning way
here Saturday, rolling over the Otago Highlanders 31-3 in a
bruising Super 14 rugby encounter.


The defending champions, playing below par, came away with
maximum points from five tries while conceding just one penalty
in a stunning defensive display.


The win put the Crusaders on top of the Super 14 table with 37
points, one ahead of the Auckland Blues, who were to play the
Coastal Sharks in Auckland later Saturday.


Although possession and territory statistics heavily favoured the
Highlanders, who spent a total of 21 minutes inside the Crusaders
22 and dominated all areas of the game, they were never able to
cross the line.


The Crusaders, meanwhile, starved of clean ball were able to cash
in on turnover ball for their fifth consecutive bonus-point
victory, their sixth successive win over the Highlanders, and
their highest winning margin over their southern neighbours.


The South Island local derby is always a gruelling encounter and
the Highlanders' All Blacks front row of Anton Oliver, Carl
Hayman and Clarke Dermody made the Crusaders pay dearly at scrum
time.


They also took control in the lineouts, giving the home side a
decisive advantage in the set pieces, but when it came to the
crucial area of the breakdown it was all Crusaders.


"It was a pretty physical encounter," acknowledged standout
Crusaders captain Richie McCaw.


"We had to defend pretty hard there in parts. They made it hard
for us. They forced us into errors and I'm just happy we kept our
composure and scored the points we did."


The Crusaders were seldom in Highlanders' territory in the first
half, but when they did they put points on the board to 10-3 at
halftime from a converted try and penalty to flyhalf Daniel
Carter, against a penalty by Nick Evans.


Veteran Crusaders wing Caleb Ralph struck first in the second
half, starting and finishing a 50 metre counterattack, and Casey
Laulala followed up with two tries, one starting from a stolen
lineout on the halfway.


After the final hooter the Crusaders rubbed salt into the
Highlanders' wounds with a length of the field move that resulted
in a try to Rua Tipoki.


Carter finished the match with 16 points from a try, four
conversions and a penalty, and replacement back Stephen Brett
converted the Crusaders' fifth try.

