

Riot police and interior ministry soldiers swarmed into Moscow's
historic centre early Saturday to clamp down on protestors who
charge that President Vladimir Putin has dismantled Russia's
democracy.


The Other Russia, a loose coalition of anti-Putin groups, says it
will meet at midday (0800 GMT) on the capital's famed Pushkin
Square, despite a ban by city authorities, who want protestors to
gather at a less central site.


The square, a major crossroads near the Kremlin, resembled a
military camp ahead of the protest, that organisers dubbed the
"March of Dissent."


Twenty two olive green military trucks, each carrying about 30
camouflaged interior ministry troops, lined the pavements, as
well as a dozen buses carrying several hundred paramilitary OMON
police, equipped with riot gear.


More police vans, buses and trucks designed for carrying
prisoners streamed through snow flurries toward the historic
square.


Tensions are rising under the calm surface of Russian domestic
politics ahead of December's parliamentary polls and a March 2008
presidential election to replace the outgoing Putin.


The country's beleaguered liberal forces, dominant in the early
1990s, but entirely marginalised during Putin's seven years in
power, claim they have the authorities rattled.


Saturday's demonstration comes after one of Putin's most
outspoken critics, billionaire Boris Berezovsky, said he was
planning a "revolution" from his London exile.


Moscow demanded London expel Berezovsky, who has political asylum
in Britain, following the comments published in The Guardian
newspaper.


The episode has further strained ties between Britain and Russia,
already badly frayed by the mysterious poisoning in London of
another exiled Russian, Alexander Litvinenko.


Leaders of the Other Russia, including chess great Gary Kasparov
and former prime minister Mikhail Kasyanov, say they will ignore
a police ban on gathering at Pushkin Square.


They vow to march from there to their authorised demonstration
area, away from the city centre.


"The right to march and not just to demonstrate is guaranteed by
the constitution and no-one has the right to encroach upon it,"
he told Gazeta daily.


This raises the possibility of a clash both with police and with
activists from the pro-Kremlin youth group Young Guard, which has
been authorised to demonstrate on Pushkin Square.


Meanwhile, two ultra-nationalist groups are planning a
demonstration against immigration across the Moscow river. The
Young Guard will hold yet another gathering by Moscow State
University, and the small liberal SPS party is also planning to
meet.


A spokesman for Moscow police, Viktor Biryukov, told ITAR-TASS
that 9,000 police and interior ministry troops were being
deployed.


"Our colleagues have been ordered to ensure order in a calm,
polite way," he said.


The last two marches by The Other Russia -- one in Saint
Petersburg and one in Nizhny Novgorod -- have been violently
dispersed. A third, held in Moscow last December, gathered
approximately 2,000 people and 7,000 police.


Echo of Moscow radio, considered one of the few remaining
independent broadcasters in the country, reported that police
were stopping tourist buses entering Moscow to check whether they
carryied demonstrators.


Police detained two busloads of demonstrators travelling through
Kostroma, north of Moscow, the radio reported.


Many of those policing Saturday's event were drafted in from
across Russia. One bus full of police on Pushkin Square was
clearly marked as having come from Nizhny Novgorod, east of
Moscow.


Echo of Moscow reported that other regions dispatching police and
troops included Chuvashiya and Urdmurtiya, which are located
between Moscow and the Ural mountains, as well as the Caucasus
province of North Ossetia.

