

Retief Goosen is looking to put aside the disappointment of
finishing joint runner-up at the year's first major by winning on
his BMW Asian Open debut in Shanghai next week.


Goosen's charge from behind at the Masters fell short as he
finished two shots behind winner Zach Johnson, settling for joint
second with Tiger Woods and Rory Sabbatini at Augusta.


The current world number eight and winner of 14 European Tour
events during an illustrious career, said he was eagerly
anticipating the challenge in China.


"This year is going to be my first time at the BMW Asian Open in
Shanghai and I'm very much looking forward to it," said the South
African.


Known for being one of the most consistent players in the world,
Goosen, 38, has won internationally every year since 1995. His
calm demeanour and reputation as a steely competitor has earned
him the nickname "The Iceman" on the US PGA Tour and he reached a
career-high world number three last year.         Besides his two
US Open wins in 2001 and 2004, Goosen also topped the European
Tour Order of Merit money list in 2001 and 2002.


A truly global golfer, Goosen started his 2006 season by winning
in South Africa before successfully defending his China Masters
crown in Sanya last October.


In January this year, he came back from two shots down with two
holes remaining and produced a miraculous birdie-eagle finish to
claim a one-stroke victory over Australian Nick O'Hern to win the
Qatar Masters.


Affectionately known as "The Goose" by his fans, Goosen is
currently ranked second on the European Order of Merit.


"I have played in China quite a few times in the last few years,"
he said.


"I think I've built up a nice fan base and I really enjoy going
back. There's always a lot of people giving me their support."


Goosen, however, will need more than fan support to win the BMW
Asian Open 2007 as he is part of the strongest ever field
assembled at Tomson Pudong Golf Club from April 19-22.


Besides his good friend and compatriot Ernie Els, Goosen will
also face the likes of big-hitting American John Daly, eight-time
European number one Colin Montgomerie, Paul Casey and local
heroes Zhang Lian-wei and Liang Wen-chong.


Europeans have won every edition of the BMW Asian Open except for
2005 when South African Ernie Els stormed to a 13-stroke victory.
Spain's Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano triumphed last year.

