

Nigerians voted Saturday in elections for  governors and
legislators in 36 states, with security forces on high alert and
violence reported in two southern oil towns.


Major parties see the polls as an indicator of their chances in
the April 21 election of a successor to President Olusegun
Obasanjo, who is ending his second four-year term.


The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) controls 28 states and
a top party official predicted the PDP would win more this time,
including Lagos state, which has been controlled by the
opposition Alliance for Democracy (AD) since 1999.


The presidential vote is expected to lead to the country's first
civilian-to- civilian handover since independence from Britain in
1960.


In the commercial capital Lagos Saturday, where the streets and
freeways were abnormally quiet, the military was out in full
force manning checkpoints at key road junctions. They were
searching all vehicles and checking the identity of their
occupants.


Many polling stations in different parts of the country opened
late.


In the northern commercial capital of Kano some polling stations
opened mid- morning while others were still waiting for polling
materials. Voters were queueing up in their hundreds, according
to an AFP correspondent there.


Following the killing Friday of a radical Muslim cleric in Kano,
residents also reported a heavy military presence and numerous
checkpoints.


In the southern oil capital of Port Harcourt, where two police
stations were burned down overnight and seven policemen killed,
polling stations in those parts of town were deserted.


Government officials also reported two dead and one wounded in
violence in Yenagoa, the capital of neighbouring Bayelsa State,
but details were not immediately available.


In a different part of Port Harcourt a polling station just a few
hundred metres from the electoral agency's offices was still
waiting for its voting material one and a half hours after it was
supposed to have opened.


A witness to the Mino Okoro attack said the assailants arrived
shouting "We are the Niger Delta youths. Come and do the
elections now!".


A supporter of local militant leader Ateke Tom said his group,
the Niger Delta Vigilantes, carried out the two attacks.


Southern Nigeria's oil-producing region has been the theatre of
violence, ranging from gang warfare to kidnappings of oil
workers, for the past several years.


While the military manned the roads, police were deployed at
polling stations throughout the country.


The Nigerian government ordered the closure of its land and sea
borders for 12 hours on Saturday to "ensure a hitch-free
electoral process", an interior ministry statement said.


"The federal government has directed that all Nigeria's borders,
excluding air borders, should be closed from 6 am (0500 GMT) to 6
pm (1700 GMT) on Saturday," the statement said, adding that the
measure was aimed at having a "hitch-free electoral process
during the gubernatorial and state assembly elections".


Nigeria has land borders with Benin, Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

