

Ramon Llenaresas stares blankly at the fading photograph of his
wife and one of their children, his last remaining memento of a
happy family life.


They were all killed in last November's Philippine typhoon, when
a wall of mud and water washed away their house, and the picture
helps him try to remember what they looked like. It is almost all
he has left.


"Sometimes I don't remember everything that has happened. Pieces
of my recollection are gone," the 34-year-old says. He has no
remaining pictures of their other five kids.


"What is more painful is that I am starting to forget my
children's faces," he says.


But like countless other survivors, Llenaresas says he too is now
being forgotten. Still living at an old sports complex that has
been turned into an evacuation camp, they are running short of
food and water -- and hope.


Four months after the tragedy of Typhoon Durian, many survivors
here in the hard-hit province of Bicol say a lack of aid and
basic supplies is keeping them from being able to move on.


The camps are lacking clean water, and the latrines are
overflowing. Electricity has not been fully restored. The storm's
fury virtually wiped out entire industries, taking jobs and
futures with it.


"Much more needs to be done," says Ida Mae Fernandez of the UN's
International Office of Migration (IOM), the lead agency managing
the camps, which are home to thousands of typhoon survivors.


"What we're facing now is a prolonged displacement of affected
families who continue to be very much in need of assistance," she
says.


More than 1,300 people were killed or went missing when the mud,
water and boulders tore through villages, and tens of thousands
like Llenaresas were left homeless.


The United Nations says at least 30,000 people are still living
in tents, school buildings and improvised shelters. Meanwhile
"large numbers" of families were living with their relatives,
straining household finances.


"There remains a huge gap to be filled," it says, despite efforts
and appeals for donor countries to pour in more funds.


While Australia, Canada, Sweden and other countries pledged help,
only six percent of the 46 million dollars the UN originally
estimated was needed have come in.


District governor Fernando Gonzales says the provincial
government has been practically crippled, a combination of the
typhoon's destruction and the lack of funds that have arrived to
help rebuild.


"Because of the magnitude of what happened here, it is taking
much longer for us to be able to stand on our own feet and start
getting out of external help," Gonzales says.


"We are appealing for a continuation of aid, for the
(international) community not to abandon us."


In addition to the lack of relief, many survivors are also still
living in emotional limbo, grieving for missing loved ones whose
bodies have never been found.


"I do not think there is still a future for me here," says Daisy
Abareta, 23, whose husband Jerson and infant daughter Angel
remain missing and are presumed dead.


"My husband was such a nice person, and my Angel had just learned
how to walk. Why has this happened to me?"


The force of the floodwater stripped Daisy's clothes off, and
rescuers found her shivering and naked, walking aimlessly among
the dead bodies and debris hours after the waters subsided.


"I celebrated my wedding anniversary alone on January 3, and my
daughter's second birthday on January 23," she sobs. "I will be
celebrating alone for the rest of my life."

