

Former world champion Tom Boonen will be among the Belgians
feeling the weight of expectation ahead of arguably the toughest
one-day cycling race in the world at Paris-Roubaix this Sunday.


The 'Hell of the North', as the 111-year-old race is known, has
been won only once by the 26-year-old star.


However given the Belgians' sorry displays in the Belgian one-day
classics this month Boonen, countryman Leif Hoste and Peter Van
Petegem will be desperate to redress the balance.


All three are among a handful - which includes defending champion
Fabian Cancellara and Italians Alessandro Ballan and Filippo
Pozzato - who possess some of the many ingredients which go into
taming one of cycling's mythical races.


Cancellara proved the strongest of a battered and bruised bunch
last year when he escaped late on to finish in the Roubaix
velodrome on his own.


Having fine-tuned his form during Ballan's finish line victory
over Hoste at the Tour of Flanders last Sunday, Switzerland's
reigning world time trial champion is confident.


"I only needed this race to be ready for next week (Paris-
Roubaix)," said Cancellara after finishing out of contention at
Flanders.


"But I know I will be ready."


The CSC team are hoping for a rare double in Roubaix, but their
hopes for rainy weather have been scuppered by the predictions of
sunny skies.


That is likely to give ideas to even more hopefuls than usual.


But whatever happens, the Belgians will be given a rough ride by
Cancellara, Ballan and new kid on the bloc, Marcus Burghardt of
Germany, the winner of Gent- Wevelgem in midweek.


"My legs are there, and so is the desire," said Ballan, who was
promoted to third place last year when three riders, including
Hoste, were disqualified for breaching a closed railway crossing
in the final 10km.


"There's no pressure. It will be the others who have pressure."


Even in sunny weather, some will avoid the race and it's
treacherous 28 cobblestoned sections - which amount to around
50km of the race's 259km - like the plague.


Former three-time winner Johan Museeuw, dubbed the 'Lion of
Flanders', famously crashed in the famed Arenberg Forest sector
in 1998. As he fought off gangrene and the threat of losing his
leg, he threatened to quit the sport.


On some days when you have the legs, a puncture at the wrong time
can end it all. And sometimes the bikes are just not up to the
task.


American George Hincapie, absent this year due to a wrist injury,
was in contention again last year until his steerer failed at the
stem just above the headset, leading to a crash and a fractured
collarbone.


Spaniard Oscar Freire, a three-time world champion and two-time
winner of Milan- San Remo, will be among those watching the six-
hour epic from the comfort of his armchair.


"It's true that if you don't go, you don't win. But I did it once
in my first year as a professional and I crashed. And if you
crash, you're out for a while," Freire said after his third-place
finish in Gent-Wevelgem.


With Ballan crowned the king in Flanders and 23-year-old T-Mobile
rider Burghardt the boss at Wevelgem, the Belgians are getting
impatient for a major classics win.


As Ballan savoured victory in Flanders last week, Hoste finished
runner-up for a third time in four years. Boonen and his Quick
Step team-mates, including 2003 Roubaix winner Van Petegem,
failed to finish in the top 20.


After disqualification from his second place finish in Roubaix
last year, Hoste admits he has more than one score to settle.


"I will never forget that," he told Sporza.


"I feel like I want to take revenge. In Roubaix it depends more
on luck than in the Tour of Flanders. But if I can, I will be
number one."

