

More than 700 cars were set alight and 600 people arrested in
violence that hit cities across France after the presidential
election victory of rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy, police said
Monday.


Seventy-eight police officers were injured in incidents after his
triumph over the Socialist Segolene Royal in Sunday's vote.


Paris, Lyon, Marseille, Nantes, Toulouse and Rennes were among
cities hit by violence blamed by police on extreme-left groups,
anarchists and apolitical gangs who clashed with police.


A total of 730 cars were burned in the high-immigrant suburbs
where Sarkozy is a hated figure for his tough stance on
immigration and law and order. Police said a total of 592 people
were arrested.


Royal had warned in the run-up to Sunday's election that a
Sarkozy victory could see the country slide into violence and
unrest, similar to the rioting that rocked French suburbs in late
2005.


At the height of those riots, about 700 cars were being burned
every night in cities across France for about three weeks. These
incidents were combined with attacks on public buildings, 300 of
which were hit.


There were few reports of attacks on public buildings since
Sarkozy's vicory on Sunday.


Earlier Monday, a police spokesman said that the widespread
rioting some had feared if Sarkozy won had been largely averted.
But he made that comment after police had reproted less than 400
cars burned and less than 300 arrests.


After the updated figures were announced, a spokesman declined to
comment when asked by AFP if police were now saying that the
predictions of widespread violence were coming true.


Thousands of police reinforcements were deployed round Paris to
head off the risk of unrest in the suburbs.


Wild celebrations broke out in the capital Sunday night, with
30,000 supporters packing the Place de la Concorde where Sarkozy
delivered a victory speech, pledging to bring reconciliation.


Riot police fired tear gas at stone-throwing protestors who
burned an effigy of Sarkozy in the Place de la Bastille, a
rallying point for Royal supporters.


On Monday, some 200 protestors, most of them high-school
students, staged a rowdy anti-Sarkozy protest at the Bastille.


Blocking traffic with metal barriers and camping in the centre of
the road near the square, they chanted "Sarko, Fascist, the
people will get you!" and draped a French flag scrawled with the
slogan "Resist Sarkozy" across the steps of the Opera house.

