

A week-old UN non-proliferation conference was on the verge of
collapse Monday as Iran's ambassador waited for word from Tehran
on whether to accept a compromise on complying with nuclear
rules.


"If we do not decide by Tuesday morning we will have difficulty
in having discussions on substantive issues," the conference's
chairman Yukiya Amano said.


The meeting which began April 30 is considering fixes to the
189-nation Non- Proliferation Treaty, the basic agreement for the
fight against the spread of nuclear weapons. It is scheduled to
end on Friday but could break apart sooner if there is no
agreement on an agenda.


Iran, which is under UN sanctions for refusing to stop its
uranium enrichment work, is blocking consensus on an agenda item
that calls for "full compliance" with the NPT.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh said "he had consulted
with his government and an answer will come tomorrow (Tuesday),"
a non-aligned diplomat told AFP.


Tehran is considering a South African proposal to adopt a text
designed to ease Iran's fears of being the target of a call for
compliance with the NPT.


But Amano, without naming Iran, said he was told the answer would
not come "sooner than Tuesday," which could mean there will be no
answer by then.


A European diplomat said Iran was using the excuse "to play with
the whole conference."


Amano also told reporters that "the NPT is facing real
difficulties and challenges. Iran claims they are looking into
the matter seriously. It's getting late. They are taking quite a
long time to take a decision."


The United States has charged that Iran is using its nuclear
programme to secretly develop an atomic bomb, a claim Tehran
denies maintaining its nuclear activities are for peaceful
purposes.


William Potter, a US analyst who is also a conference delegate,
said Monday: "Iran has problems already at the IAEA (the UN
nuclear watchdog which has cited Tehran for non-compliance with
the NPT) and the UN Security Council (which imposed sanctions)
and they are not anxious to add to that list."


Iran may be torpedoing the conference with stalling tactics as it
"does not want to see this body on record in any fashion
condemning Iran's non-compliance," Potter said.


The stand-off here is the worst at any NPT meeting since the
treaty went into effect in 1970, diplomats said.


Amano had tried Friday to assure Iran that it was not the object
of the agenda item calling for full compliance with the pact. He
also refused to change the agenda, saying it was already a
delicate compromise.


A collapse however was avoided when non-aligned state South
Africa proposed the adoption of an explanatory text saying that
full compliance concerned "all the provisions" of the NPT.


Iran's Soltanieh argues that emphasising compliance with all NPT
provisions would push states possessing nuclear weapons to keep
their promises on disarmament, rather than having the meeting
just criticize Iran over violations of the treaty's nuclear
safeguards.


Diplomats said Iran was in a dilemma because it was isolated in
the non-aligned movement here, usually its closest ally, and also
because the agenda includes talks about making the Middle East
nuclear-free, a topic endorsed by countries like Egypt.


"If we're not going to discuss substance, we're wasting our
time," a Middle East diplomat said.


One European diplomat added: "Iran is obviously holding the
conference hostage and playing for time."


The conference is the first of a series preparing for a 2010
review on amendments to the NPT, which many feel needs to be
reinforced in order to handle nuclear crises such as Iran and
North Korea.


The conference set the dates for the 2008 meeting to be held in
Geneva April 28-May 9.

