

The European Union could slow Russia's bid to join the World
Trade Organisation (WTO) before the end of the year but analysts
said Monday that a deal is still likely, even as EU-Russia
tensions rise.


"I definitely believe that (President Vladimir) Putin would like
to have membership on his books before he leaves office" in 2008,
said Peter Westin, chief economist at MDM Bank.


The WTO is just one of several controversial issues between
Moscow and Brussels threatening to cloud an EU-Russia summit on
May 18, including energy exports and a bitter dispute over a
Soviet war monument in Estonia.


Russia is the biggest economy in the world outside the WTO and
has been trying to join the global trade body since 1993. Since
coming to power in 2000, Putin has set membership as a key goal.


Talks with Western powers have been held up over poor enforcement
of anti-piracy laws and protectionist legislation in Russia.


On Monday, a village headmaster was handed a small fine for
illegally using the Microsoft Windows operating system in only
the first prosecution in Russia for usage of pirated goods.


But Russian officials and some analysts also see political play
on the part of EU countries.


"I have an impression that some of the EU countries just use this
WTO issue," said Konstantin Kozlov, economist at the Centre for
Economic and Financial Research in Moscow.


Kozlov referred in particular to Poland, which has held up
crucial talks between the European Union and Russia over a new
partnership agreement in response to a Russian embargo on meat
imported from Poland.


Both the United States and the European Union have struck deals
with Russia paving the way for WTO entry but the EU still needs
to make a final recommendation to the 27 member states to secure
access.


On Friday, the European Commission warned that it would not
support Russia's bid to join before the end of the year unless
Moscow shows it is ready to resolve outstanding trade issues.


"We should make clear that the EU is ready to support early
conclusion of Russia's WTO accession but not at any price," said
the Commission's spokesman on trade affairs, Peter Power.


"We need real political commitment," Power said.


Russian officials reacted calmly, with Maxim Medvedkov, Moscow's
chief negotiator at the WTO, telling The Moscow Times daily:
"We're in touch with the commission every day.... It's business
as usual."


Russia has itself expressed scepticism about the benefits of WTO
entry.


Russia's First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, seen as a
possible presidential candidate, said earlier that Russia had
managed to develop its economy without being a member and was not
obliged to join.


Westin, chief economist at MDM Bank in Moscow, said that a deal
between the EU and Russia was still likely, particularly since
Putin had set membership as a top priority.


"I believe the interdependence between Russia and the EU would
mean equal pressure on the EU to come to an agreement with Russia
as there will be on Russia to come to an agreement with the EU,"
Westin said.

