

Researchers in the United States say they have been able to coax
embryonic stemcells into yielding a plentiful supply of versatile
cells that can repair damage to blood vessels.


The precursor cells, called hemangioblasts, develop into one of
two directions -- either cells for the blood system or for the
endothelium, the vessel of lining.


The study is published online on Monday in Nature Methods, a
journal of the London-based Nature group.


Stemcells are versatile precursors of adult cells. Embryonic
stemcells are exceptionally versatile, because they can develop
into almost every tissue of the body.


Their great promise has prompted scientists to hope that
embryonic stemcells can be the source for lab-dish tissue to
replace cells that are damaged by disease.


The strategy, led by a team at Advanced Cell Technology (ACT), a
Massachusetts biotech company, entails culturing human embryonic
stemcells in chemicals in two phases, so that the stemcells are
"differentiated" into tiny clusters of hemangioblasts.


The hemangioblasts have been successfully tested on lab rodents
with retinas, heart muscles and hind limbs with blood-vessel
damage.


A long road of evaluation for safety and effectiveness lies ahead
before the innovation enters the public domain, but the
scientists say the goal of embryonic stem-cell derived
hemangioblasts is alluring.


"An injection of these cells might potentially be able to prevent
a patient from having a leg amputated or a patient from dying
after a heart attack," said senior author Robert Lanza, vice
president of research and scientific development at ACT.


Lanza told AFP the company intended to file a request to the US
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by the end of 2008, seeking
permission to conduct small- scale trials on human volunteers.


"We still have preclinical studies underway, and are hoping to
make a final decision as to the specific indication in the next
month or so," Lanza said in an email.


The trial focus would probably be on sight-afflicting conditions
caused by blood vessel damage in the retina, he said.


"Diabetic retinopathy would be a good candidate (for the trials),
although there are several other more devastating indications
that we're also considering, such as branch retinal vein
occlusion, for which there is currently no treatment."

