

Turkey's staunchly secularist main opposition party formed a new
centre-left alliance on Monday, in a bid to challenge to the
Islamist-rooted ruling party in elections on July 22.


"We have agreed to cooperate with the Democratic Left Party (DSP)
in the elections ... We want to strengthen the social-democrat
movement," said Deniz Baykal, chairman of the Republican People's
Party (CHP), Turkey's main opposition party.


The CHP was a major player in the recent presidential election
crisis that forced the sole candidate of Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) -- Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist -- to withdraw his
candidacy.


The alliance deal came under pressure from secularist Turks who
held huge anti- AKP rallies recently, at which they also urged
Turkey's notoriously fractured centre-left and centre-right to
unite.


Two centre-right parties were the first to announce at the
weekend that they would merge ahead of the elections.


A much-criticised 10-percent national threshold left several
mainstream parties outside parliament in the 2002 elections,
allowing the AKP to hold nearly two- thirds of the seats despite
winning only 34 percent of the vote.


The DSP is not currently represented in parliament, but it is of
symbolic importance for centre-left voters, being the legacy of
the much-admired Bulent Ecevit, a five-time prime minister who
died in November.


It is now expected to withdraw from the elections and field it
candidates on CHP tickets.


The CHP, which argues that an AKP president would undermine
Turkey's secular order, petitioned the Constitutional Court to
annul a first-round vote in parliament on April 27, in which Gul
narrowly missed being elected.


The court cancelled the vote last week, saying that parliament
lacked the required quorum of a two-thirds majority.


The AKP, the offshoot of a now-banned Islamist movement, was left
alone in the assembly as the CHP-led opposition boycotted the
vote.


A re-run of the vote Sunday failed again as the boycott
continued.

