

The weekend election of right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy as the new
president of France has raised fears in Africa because of his
tough line on immigration.


But some on the continent also hope for a paradigm shift in ties
with France's former colonies removed from the so-called
"Francafrique" network of past French leaders who maintained
relations with some dubious African leaders.


Sarkozy was the architect of France's tough immigration policy
and as interior minister stepped up the expulsion of illegal
immigrants, prompting sharp criticism from rights groups.


"When we heard the news of Sarkozy's election, we were scared,
really scared," said Ousmane Diarra, head a support group for
Malians expelled from France.


"This is the guy who, from the very start, has very severe laws
on immigration which are detrimental to Malians and West
Africans," said Diarra who a year ago launched an anti-Sarkozy
campaign in Mali.


Sarkozy, son of a Hungarian aristocrat and the grandson of a
Greek Jew, is the first French president of immigrant stock.


An advocate of a system of selective immigration, tailored to the
needs of the French labour market, said in his victory speech on
Sunday that he plans to head rapidly to Africa to "lay the
foundations of a new immigration policy".


The independent daily Le Potentiel in the Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC) on Monday expressed concern about "Sarkozy's disease
which sees Africans only as immigrants disrupting order in France
(but) is unaware of what Africa brings to France".


"The election of Sarkozy has not stirred much enthusiasm in
Africa," agreed Raddho, a human rights non-governmental
organisation based in Dakar.


But for some, the election of a 52-year-old right-wing candidate
also raises hope of new relations between France and Africa.


Sarkozy promised an overhaul of relations with France's former
African colonies, tacitly criticising his predecessor's Jacques
Chirac's "personal" ties with the leaders of questionable
regimes.


"We count on him for the modernisation of relations between
France and  African countries," said Ivory Coast's opposition
leader and former Prime Minister Alassane Ouattara, Sarkozy's
close ally.


Jean-Pierre Bemba, DRC's opposition leader and ex-vice president
said he was delighted by Sarkozy's victory, which he said
"heralds ... a rupture of a policy, France's policy on Africa,
towards more democracy and good governance."


Nord-Sud, a newspaper close to Ivory Coast's opposition and new
transitional prime minister Guillaume Soro, wants to believe that
the support of France's "friends and buddies will no longer be
systematic."


During a trip to Benin last year as interior minister, Sarkozy
said France wanted "to build new relations" with Africa, and be
"rid of scum of the past".


In South Africa, meanwhile, President Thabo Mbeki expressed hope
that France would be a force for good in Africa.


"Given its historical links with the African continent, France
will always be a valued interlocutor and partner in our efforts
to build peace and stability, strengthen democratic governance
and foster social and economic development in Africa," he said.

