

African Union chief John Kufuor on Tuesday deplored that the
world's poorest continent had not managed to free itself of
poverty, war and pestilence despite shaking off its colonial
fetters.


"Post-colonial Africa has not been entirely as envisioned," the
Ghanaian president told the opening of the seventh session of the
Pan-African Parliament, an AU organ headquartered in Midrand
outside Johannesburg.


"The continent has been plagued over the period in almost all its
different regions by conflicts, wars, diseases, illiteracy and
poverty at one spot or the other," Kufuor said.


He said prosperity had not automatically followed independence as
earlier thought, underlining that Africa accounted for 35 of the
world's 50 poorest nations.


He called upon the continental parliament, whose aims include
promoting democracy, good governance and transparency, "to
advance ... socio-economic development and transformation."


PAP president Gertrude Mongella urged the African Union to grant
the three-year- old parliament more legislative powers to help
promote peace and development.


"PAP's (current) advisory role to the AU is limiting. PAP should
be allowed to take part in decision-making processes of the AU,"
she said.


The 235-member continental parliament, whose members are drawn
from 47 countries, is to debate issues of peace and security and
the proposed creation of a united African government during its
current session ending on May 18.


Kufuor said peace and security had to be improved on the
continent to sustain advances made, citing a peace deal struck
between former warring forces in the west African country of
Ivory Coast as an example of the way forward.


Ivory Coast, the world's top cocoa producer and France's former
star African colony, had been split in half since a failed 2002
uprising against the government.


Peace moves by France, the UN and a west African regional bloc
formerly headed by Kufuor all failed and a new homespun treaty
between the west African country's president and former rebel
leader apparently seems to be working.


Kufuor also underscored the importance of the G8 group of
industrialised nations fulfilling promises of increased aid.


Leaders of the Group of Eight most industrialised nations pledged
at the British-hosted Gleneagles summit two years ago to grant
substantial debt relief and double aid to Africa by 2010.


While the debt relief goals have largely been met, most G8
countries are well behind on the aid targets.


Aid and joint economic ventures between Africa and the developed
world willd be discussed at a June 6 to 8 summit of G8 leaders in
Heiligendamm, Germany.


"The G8 has promised increased aid to Africa and the AU will
remind the G8 that the promises made must be fulfilled," said
Kufuor.


"The G8 has positive intentions towards Africa now and we want to
open up our continent to economic growth."

