

The United Nations and the African Union called on Monday for
international pressure on both the Khartoum government and rebel
groups in Darfur to lead them towards a political solution to the
civil war in the western Sudanese region.


"Pressure should be exerted on both sides, the government and the
rebel movements," AU envoy Salim Ahmed Salim told a news
conference held jointly with Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul
Gheit and UN envoy for Sudan Jan Eliasson.


"There must be a balance of responsibility and denunciation,"
Salim said. "It's wrong to assume that there are only devils from
one side and only angels on the other side. Truth is that there
is responsibility from both sides."


The visit to Egypt by Salim and Eliasson coincides with the
presence in Cairo of Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir, who held
talks on Darfur with President Hosni Mubarak.


"There is no alternative to the broadening of the Abuja accord to
include all rebel factions," Mubarak's spokesman Suleiman Awwad
said after the two presidents met on Monday.


Khartoum reached a peace agreement with Darfur rebels on May 5,
2006 in Nigeria but only one of three negotiating rebel factions
endorsed the deal and violence has since spiralled.


"There has to be a price for non-cooperation," Eliasson told the
news conference.


Abul Gheit agreed that a price must be paid "for he who does not
oblige," but reiterated that Cairo opposed sanctions being
imposed on the Khartoum government.


"The main problem has been that the rebels have felt they are
protected against sanctions," he added.


Holdout rebel groups have supported international calls for
sanctions against Beshir's regime and the deployment of a robust
UN peacekeeping force to prop up the embattled African Union
contingent already on the ground.


Some 200,000 people have died in the four-year civil war in
Darfur and two million more fled their homes, according to UN
figures, although some sources put the toll much higher.


Sudan says that only 9,000 have died.

