

United Nations human rights chief Louise Arbour said on Monday
her office plans to formalise a regional presence in Central
Asia, a region which she said was lacking in basic democratic
rights.


Arbour, speaking after a visit to the four former Soviet
republics of Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan,
said the office would most probably be set up in the Krygyzstan
capital Bishkek.


Arbour highlighted many obstacles to human rights in the region,
including a weak judiciary and little space for civil society and
its institutions to flourish.


National human rights bodies range from the non-existent to the
non-independent, while press freedom is also often widely
compromised, she said.


"You have a deficit in what I consider to be the rights that are
fundamental to democracy to varying degrees (...) across the
region," she added.


Arbour did not visit Uzbekistan after the government said the
dates she proposed for her visit were not convenient.


Ties between the UN and Uzbekistan have cooled over a 2005 unrest
in the city of Andijan where hundreds of people were shot dead by
government forces, according to rights groups and witnesses.


Uzbek authorities however say no more than 187 people were killed
and blame Islamist insurgents for the unrest. The UN has termed
it a "massacre" and called for an independent probe.


On Monday, Arbour told journalists that the precarious position
of human rights defenders in Uzbekistan remained "very
troublesome".


Recent arrests of activists such as Umida Niyazova and Gulbahor
Turaeva are "very troublesome for civil society actors who are
exercising their freedom of speech and for their whole space for
democratic civil society activities," the high commissioner said.


Niyazova, 32, was sentenced last Tuesday to seven years in jail
for illegally crossing the Uzbekistan border, smuggling and
distributing publications threatening public order. Turaeva was
jailed for six years the week before.


However, Arbour said the fact her visit took place at all, and
the commitment to a regional presence gave her some grounds for
optimism.


"I received an extremely favourable response to our desire to
open a regional presence which I found very encouraging...
overall the diagnosis would be more encouraging than one might
have thought at the outset," Arbour said.

