

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice kicked off an
unprecedented meeting of Pacific leaders here Monday by warning
against the danger of island "strongmen" undermining democracy in
their vast region.


Rice lashed out in particular at the military in Fiji, which
toppled an elected government in December and has recently
appeared to back away from a promised timetable for a return to
democratic rule.


"The United States is deeply concerned about the unlawful
overthrow of the freely elected government in Fiji," Rice told
leaders and senior officials from 20 Pacific nations and
territories, including a representative from Fiji.


"The Pacific cannot evolve into an area where strongmen
unilaterally decide the fates of their countries and destabilize
the democratic foundations of their neighbors," Rice said.


She was addressing the opening session of the first meeting in
Washington of the triennial Pacific Islands Conference, a
grouping of 12 Pacific states and eight territories, including
the US state of Hawaii and two French dependencies.


President Kessai Note of the Marshall Islands, current chairman
of the group, said the two-day meeting was the highest level
gathering of Pacific leaders ever held in the US capital.


The US government has declared 2007 "The Year of the Pacific" as
part of an effort to boost US engagement in a strategic region
that China has been aggressively courting with aid and diplomatic
attention.


US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Glyn Davies told a recent
congressional hearing that Washington had largely neglected the
Pacific region for over a decade in terms of its diplomacy and
development aid, but was now taking steps to engage the region.


"We believe it is crucial to keep this vast, strategic region and
its mostly small, sometimes struggling states firmly on our
side," he said.


"Maintaining security and stability in the Pacific region is
crucial to the interests of every country and every territory
represented in this room, including the United States," Rice
added in her remarks.


But a series of initiatives to be unveiled by the State
Department during this week's meetings focused mostly on public
relations and democracy promotion projects rather than expanded
aid.


These include the creation of a new regional office in Fiji
representing the State Department's "public diplomacy" bureau,
created two years ago to counter growing anti-Americanism in the
wake of the Iraq war.


Rice said the US also planned to explore ways to ensure that
Pacific nations benefit economically from construction projects
related to the relocation of 8,000 US troops from Okinawa, Japan,
to Guam.


Officials from the office of the US Trade Representative were
also due to meet with the Pacific leaders to expand duty-free
imports into the United States of Pacific island products.


But Kote of the Marshall Islands called for additional US help in
coping with the effects of climate change, which he said
represented a "major security issue" for low-lying nations
threatened by rising seas.


While the administration of President George W. Bush has long
taken a skeptic's view of the more dire global warming scenarios,
Kote said his region could not afford to be complacent.


"Sea level change is no longer a matter of conjecture, but a
reality," he said.

