

Developing countries on Monday said proposals to revitalise
agriculture negotiations at the World Trade Organisation suffered
from a "severe imbalance" which put their economies at a
disadvantage.


However they stressed that they remained committed to a
successful deal on agriculture as part of the wider Doha round of
global trade talks, and that they would continue to work with
Crawford Falconer, the chair of the WTO's special committee on
agriculture, to achieve this outcome.


Falconer last week issued what he called a "challenge paper" to
the WTO's 150 member states, in which he called on the United
States to cut trade distorting domestic support to below 19
billion dollars (14 billion euros) per year.


The G33 group of developing countries said his paper "does not
... provide a good starting point because of severe imbalance in
the treatment of developed countries and developing countries'
issues."


The 46-nation group, which includes major developing nations such
as China, India and Indonesia, said the imbalance "would only
lead to perpetuate the existing structural flaws and distortions
in agriculture trade".


Agriculture has been a key stumbling block in the WTO's Doha
round of trade negotiations, which were launched in the Qatari
capital in 2001.


The US and EU have engaged in bitter arguments on the issue, with
Brussels demanding more reductions in US farm subsidies and
Washington insisting that proposed European tariff cuts do not go
far enough.


The G20 group of developing agricultural exporters such as Brazil
took a slightly more positive tone, saying Falconer's
"challenging, provocative and thought-provoking" proposals
provided enough elements for a "fruitful initial discussion".


However, they questioned his definition of the "centre of
gravity" regarding any cut in US support as too generous.


Falconer put the "centre of gravity" around which negotiations
will focus at "certainly below 19 (billion dollars) and somewhere
above the very low teens," for the US.


The G20 in its response said that "what should be discarded are
the 'high teens' and that the 'low teens' actually reflect the
only possible centre of gravity."


Falconer himself told journalists on Monday that the US remains
the focus of most delegates' attentions.


"There is not only one delegation who would like the US not to do
a lot more on domestic support," he said.

