

Twisted metal, shredded clothing and human remains are all that
is left of a Kenya Airways plane that plummeted into a
Cameroonian mangrove swamp two days ago, killing all 114 people
onboard.


Under blue skies glimmering through a clearing made by the Boeing
737 when it crashed into the mangroves deep in the jungle
southeast of Douala, dozens of rescue workers and others wade
through muddy water gathering debris.


Between charred and uprooted trees, a giant pump hums as it
struggles to empty a 20-metre (yard) wide crater sunk in the
murky water and gouged by the aircraft as it smashed down and was
swallowed by the swamp.


The impact was so powerful that the plane's body and wings were
completely severed.


Small scraps of metal are sprinkled over several hundred metres
of marshland, with only a piece of landing gear, a portion of a
wing and a few shredded seats serving as a reminder that the
debris once was an aircraft.


Fragments of clothing and objects stick out of the mud. A teddy
bear here, a life preserver there, a food tray, and further away
a solitary shoe.


And strewn everywhere, body-parts: feet, arms and other pieces of
human flesh impossible to identify.


As soon as the wreckage was found late Sunday, nearly 48 hours
after the catastrophe, the first rescue workers immediately
relinquished any hope of finding survivors.


"There are no chances of finding any (survivors) under the
circumstances,"  Luc Ndjodo, the prosecutor from Douala, the west
African country's economic hub, told AFP.


Eyes on the ground, the rescue workers have begun the painful
task of collecting human remains. One by one, they pick up the
chunks of flesh and place them carefully in white bags before
carrying them to a command post set up in the small town of
Mbanga-Pongo, an hour's walk away.


A chain of people carrying stretchers piled with the white bags
make their way along the path in the humid heat, struggling
through the vegetation and in some places sinking up to their
thighs in mud.


At the other end of the trail, the bags with their macabre
content are piled in a Cameroonian Red Cross tent. The counting
of victims has begun.


When it took off from Douala overnight Friday to Saturday, Kenya
Airways flight 507 was carrying nine crew members and 105
passengers.


There were 85 Africans, 21 Asians, seven Europeans and one
American on board, according to a list published by the airline
on Monday.

