

Sir Alex Ferguson quickly demonstrated he will not rest on his
laurels despite his ninth Premiership title as Manchester United
manager, claiming a triple transfer swoop was in the offing in
the close season.


United claimed the Premiership title for the first time since
2003 as Chelsea failed to beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on
Sunday, drawing 1-1 and leaving them with an insurmountable
seven-point deficit with just two games to play.


But Fergie knows that Chelsea will come back stronger than ever
next season and after United's Champions League quest fell away
courtesy of a lack of defensive cover when injuries reared their
head, the Scot is planning on bolstering every area of the tam.


He has told chief executive David Gill the trio of new faces he
believes will give United their best chance of finishing top of
the pile again next term.


"We have outlined three targets and David Gill is aware of them,"
said Ferguson.


"As everyone knows, there is competition for the best players and
when there is competition, it costs, so we will just have to wait
and see."


Ferguson refused to go public with the names of the players
United will go for but Bayern Munich's Owen Hargreaves will
certainly be one, with Tottenham's Dimitar Berbatov also believed
to be near the top of his list.


While Spurs boss Martin Jol may be unwilling to part with
Berbatov 12 months after selling Michael Carrick to United, the
blow may be softened by the arrival in return of Louis Saha,
whose United days appear to be numbered.


If rumours of a Juventus move for Gabriel Heinze prove correct
then young Southampton defender Gareth Bale, whom Ferguson
targeted during the last transfer window, can also expect to be
on the United manager's hit-list.


However, in the knowledge that Chelsea are bound to splash the
cash this summer in a bid to overhaul his side, Ferguson is keen
to do his business quietly.


"Manchester United has always been an attraction," he said. "We
have 76,000 people watching us every week and have a celebrity
status which means we are known throughout the world.


"It is not a question of attracting players. The real competition
comes when Chelsea pay 27 million pounds for someone like Michael
Essien. They can outbid us all.


"We identify players as quietly as we can so we can do things
quickly. It is not easy, but that is what we are trying to do."

