

Thousands demonstrated in central London on Monday calling on the
British government to grant an amnesty for hundreds of thousands
of illegal immigrants.


Demonstrators urged the government to grant a two-year work
permit without access to benefits for refused asylum seekers or
visa overstayers who have been in the country for four years or
more.


The Roman Catholic leader in England and Wales, Cardinal Cormac
Murphy-O'Connor, told faith leaders, immigrants and activists at
the rally that migrants deserved to be treated "with justice and
with dignity.


"That is why I am so glad to be associated with fellow Christians
and people of other faiths and with politicians who are
determined to see that before long these people who we say are
strangers in fact become citizens."


The rally organised by the The Strangers into Citizens Campaign
followed a Mass at Westminster Cathedral for migrant workers and
a procession through London featuring drummers, whistle-blowers,
and Latin American bands.


The campaign proposes that those qualifying for a work permit
would receive indefinite leave to remain at the end of the two-
year period subject to an English test, clean criminal record and
employer and sponsor references.


Jack Dromey, deputy general secretary of the Transport and
General Workers Union, told the rally his Irish parents had faced
racist barriers to finding lodging when they moved to London in
the 1930s.


He added that the trade union movement had been built on a
history of migration.


"These are decent men and women, these undocumented workers,
340,000 in London alone, it would be impractical and immoral for
any government to pretend that you can hunt down and deport
them," Dromey said.


"Let's see regularisation so that these good men and women can
emerge out of the twilight world of exploitation, fear and
insecurity to join the rest of the citizens in building this
country," he added.


The Strangers Into Citizens Campaign estimates there are up to
500,000 long-term illegal migrants trying to make a living. Both
the Labour government and the Conservative Party opposition
voiced opposition to an amnesty.

