

Families of victims of a former Italian communist revolutionary
were outraged at hints from Italy's justice minister that Rome
might cut his sentence if Brazil extradites him, local media
reported Monday.


Cesare Battisti, who was sentenced in absentia to life in prison
in Italy in 1993 for four murders, was arrested in Brazil on
March 18.


"The life sentence, according to the rules in effect in Italy,
does not imply that the person handed such a sentence must stay
in prison their entire life," Justice Minister Clemente Mastella
wrote to Brazil's supreme court to support his official request
for Battisti's extradition, according to the Corriere della Sera
daily.


He also pointed out the different reduced sentences and
alternative ways of serving a life sentence available to
prisoners, like semi-liberty and early release, the paper
reported.


Mastella's letter reportedly aimed to win over Brazilian
authorities, who have in the past rejected Italian extradition
requests for former revolutionaries, claiming their crimes were
of a political nature.


Life imprisonment does not exist as a sentence in Brazil.


Several families of Battisti's victims said they were outraged by
Mastella's letter.


"I am very bitter and troubled. I didn't expect such words from
the justice minister," said Adriano Sabbadin, whose father Lino
was shot dead in February 1979 by the Armed Proletarians for
Communism (PAC), led by Battisti.


Alberto Torregiani, whose father Pierluigi was also killed around
the same time, meanwhile said that if Mastella's assurances were
"aimed at obtaining Battisti's extradition" and he planned to
"apply the law without reducing the sentence, then this is not a
problem for me."


But, he added, if the aim "is to release him after a few years,
Mastella must resign."


Torregiani told the Ansa news agency that the justice minister
had called him Monday morning to assure him that he "would do
everything" to obtain Battisti's extradition and that he was
"firmly opposed" to any kind of amnesty for the former PAC
leader.


Torregiani himself became paralysed from the neck down after
being hit by a stray bullet on his 15th birthday during the
shootout that killed his father.


Battisti, who continues to maintain his innocence in the slayings
that took place nearly three decades ago, first took refuge in
France in the 1990s but disappeared in August 2004, shortly
before the French government signed an extradition order to
return him to Italy.

