

Italian cycling star Ivan Basso on Monday confessed to the anti-
doping prosecutor of the Italian Olympic Committee (CONI) that he
was involved in the Operation Puerto blood doping scandal.


CONI said the 29-year-old rider came to them of his own accord
and offered to cooperate with their investigation and clarify his
part in the scandal.


If found guilty of doping by the Italian authorities, Basso could
face a ban of anything up to two years.


"He wasn't feeling good and he wasn't calm, and he wanted to lift
a weight off his conscience," said Basso's lawyer Massimo
Martelli.


"During the interrogation he was shaking, but then he regained
his composure to show great character."


Ivano Fanini, owner of Italian cycling team Amore and Vita, was
happy to see Basso come clean.


"I knew it would finish this way and it could be a great chance
for things to change," he said.


"Basso has shown his intelligence and understands that this is
the right road to take.


"He mustn't only think about saving himself, and I hope that what
he has done proves to be important."


Basso, last year's Tour of Italy winner and a pre-race favourite
for the 2007 Tour de France, is one of dozens of riders
implicated in the Operation Puerto doping affair.


The scandal erupted before last year's Tour De France when
Spanish police uncovered an alleged blood doping network run by
doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Police discovered bags of blood and doping products on a raid on
Fuentes's laboratory in Madrid, along with codenames of cyclists
and documents which suggested the doctor had been paid to
manipulate and store blood.


Basso's implication in the scandal cost him his place at the Tour
de France.


Last week Basso parted company with the Discovery Channel team
after CONI had called him to a hearing to answer doping charges.


Up until now Basso had protested his innocence.


He was initially acquitted by CONI of any involvement in the
scandal due to what Italy's governing body for sport described as
insufficient evidence.


But CONI reopened their investigation after unearthing new
evidence, believed to be blood samples and text messages between
Basso and Fuentes.


Last year's Tour de France also ended in controversy when
American winner Floyd Landis tested positive for testosterone.

