

Two children died and seven people were wounded Monday when a
bomb exploded under a police car near the presidential palace in
Somalia's volatile capital Mogadishu, police and witnesses said.


The blast came just hours after Somali troops, backed by
Ethiopian forces, cracked down on arms dealers near the scene of
the blast.


The police car exploded near the Villa Somalia presidential
palace in southern Mogadishu, prompting security forces to seal
off surrounding areas.


"Two children who were playing nearby were killed by the bomb.
One died instantly and the other died in hospital," said local
resident Farah Darod.


"The bomb hit a police car somewhere not too far from the
presidential palace and four policemen were wounded," police
officer Ibrahim Mohamed told AFP.


A southern Mogadishu resident, Mohamed Ali, said three civilians
were also hit by shrapnel.


Officials confirmed the vehicle belonged to regional police chief
Ali Said, and that he was not in it when it was attacked.


The blast occurred after Ethiopian forces raided the Bakara
market, the city's largest, and seized two truckloads of weapons,
causing local arms dealers to flee their stalls.


"Ethiopian and Somali military ... surrounded and entered the
market, broke several stores, collected guns and loaded them into
trucks," arms dealer Dahir Faqash told AFP.


"The weapons included heavy and small machine guns," Faqash
added.


Another arms dealer, Suleyman Adbi Barra, said the soldiers
ransacked the market -- which also sells clothes, spare parts and
foreign currencies -- for around 45 minutes before loading the
weapons into military vehicles.


Meanwhile, the UN World Food Programme on Monday delivered aid to
Mogadishu residents in several districts for the first time since
the end of recent clashes between Ethiopian-Somali troops and
Islamist and clan fighters in which hundreds died.


A lorry delivered 32 tonnes of maize to displaced families
temporarily rehoused in the south of the capital, but local
officials said a lot more food was needed.


"There are 1,000 displaced families in the district and enough
maize only for 300 families," said local official Abdulkadir
Hussein.


Up to 400,000 people have fled fighting in Mogadishu since the
beginning of February.


Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out an Islamist movement from
central and southern Somalia, including Mogadishu, at the start
of the year.


The Somali capital has since seen an upsurge in deadly clashes
between rival sides, which abated on April 26 after an Ethiopian
offensive.

