

The European Commission, revising upward its 2007 growth forecast
for France, has given its next government under Nicolas Sarkozy a
shot in the arm as Paris prepares a bid to cut taxes without
deepening the national debt.


The European Union's executive commission on Monday predicted
that the French economy would expand 2.4 percent this year rather
than 2.2 percent as previously projected.


Such a pace, while slower than that foreseen in Spain, Britain
and Germany, would nonetheless amount to France's best yearly
showing since 2000.


Speaking just hours after Sarkozy's presidential election
triumph, Finance Minister Thierry Breton said the economy had
outperformed targets in the first two quarters.


He said growth of the economy in the first and second quarters
would be "revised upwards" to an annual 2.5-3.0 percent from
2.0-2.5 percent.


"The economic situation is sharply better than it was two or
three years ago," Breton said. "That is a fact."


There have been other signs of recovery here as well, with
unemployment in March falling to 8.3 percent of the workforce, an
improvement in business sentiment and healthy consumer spending.


The reports are good news for Sarkozy and his government, which
he is expected to name after taking office on May 16.


His economic program has assumed growth of 2.25 percent this
year, but a more vigorous pace would enable an easing in
budgetary constraints, which for the moment are tight.


France's public deficit stands at 2.5 percent of gross domestic
product, in line with eurozone regulations, but a debt level
amounting to 63.9 percent of GDP, exceeding the 60 percent
authorized in the EU's 1997 Stability and Growth Pact.


Sarkozy in his campaign pledged the narrow the debt to 60 percent
by 2012. But the president-elect has also called for tax breaks,
designed for example to encourage overtime work and spur home
ownership, that could hamper efforts to trim the debt.


The commission forecast that French economic activity should be
sustained this year by domestic demand, with foreign trade having
a "slightly negative" impact on growth because of a substantial
deficit.


But unemployment will continue to be a drag on France this year,
according to the commission, which sees the jobless rate coming
to 8.9 percent this year, after 9.4 percent in 2006, and 8.5
percent in 2008.

