

Spanish challenger Desafio Espanol suffered a case of the jitters
Monday in their bid to reach the Louis Vuitton Cup semi-finals
after Sweden's Victory Challenge beat them in a do-or-die contest
off Valencia by just 7sec.


The Spanish had mined a rich seam of form with six wins in seven
outings to establish a five-point lead over their rivals going
into the final three matches.


But the Scandinavians closed the gap to ensure that Victory can
still go to the semi-finals.


The day's other flight nine action included a top of the table
clash between two of the big-hitter syndicates already qualified
for the semis along with US leaders BMW Oracle -- Emirates Team
New Zealand and Italy's Luna Rossa.


And Dean Barker's Kiwis, the only unbeaten team in the second
round robin event, took early control after a welter of early
tacking duels to rack up another two points.


Luna Rossa dug in on the downward leg as both teams strove hard
to ensure overall bragging rights with Oracle in their sights,
although the Americans stayed in pole position with a 57sec win
over Italy's Mascalzone, already eliminated.


But Emirates were 18sec ahead at the second mark and stretched
that to 23sec to finish with some 100m and 36sec to spare.


Just four points separate the top three going into the final two
contests  but Luna Rossa cannot now finish top outright.


There was better news for Italian fans as another non-qualifier
+39 Challenge got off the mark in second round robin play against
South Africa's Team Shosholoza, the margin 50sec.


Desafio and Victory fought out a battle royale with the final
qualifying slot firmly in their sights.


Magnus Holmberg's Swedes quickly pushed the Spaniards above the
lay line with a big tack to take the windward mark some three
lengths and 22sec ahead, aided by a slow Spanish turn as both
rolled round at the top of the course.


Controversy then ensued as Victory required a chase boat drop
following a late dip pole gybe which saw their spinnaker fall
into the water just ahead of their opponents, who were forced to
take evasive action.


The Spaniards' Kiwi tactician John Cutler made a red flag protest
as a result, according to the umpire monitoring boat but at the
top delta their rivals were 20sec off.


The jury were to decide if the incident merited any technical
penalty once back in port as the Spanish tried in vain to move
back into contention with a desperate flurry of gybes.

