

Russia snubbed Monday an invitation to attend Estonian ceremonies
to mark the end of World War II, including one at a Soviet war
memorial at the centre of a bitter dispute between the
neighbours.


Embassy spokesman Maxim Kozlov said Russian diplomats would not
attend a Tuesday's events -- including one at the controversial
Bronze Soldier statue -- because for Russians victory in the war
was the following day.


"We will not attend the laying of flowers at the military
cemetery on May 8, because for Russia, Victory Day is on May 9,"
he said.


Kozlov said the Russian ambassador would instead lay wreaths on
Wednesday at a military cemetery in Tallinn and at other Soviet
war graves and monuments around the country.


Estonia regretted that the Russians were not attending the events
which it said would gather diplomats from 27 different countries.


"While it is the right of the Russian embassy to choose which
ceremonies to attend, we are sorry Russia will not join the
international community in Tuesday's ceremonies," defence
ministry spokesman Madis Mikko told AFP.


Russia's apparent snub came 10 days after the Estonian
authorities moved the Bronze Soldier from its pride of place at a
busy crossroads to a military cemetery in a quiet neighbourhood
of the capital.


The removal of the statue, which Russia sees as a sacred memorial
to Red Army soldiers who died fighting Nazism, sparked rioting in
Tallinn and saw relations with Moscow sink to their lowest point
since Estonia won independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.


Moscow dismisses Estonia's view that the statue also symbolizes
two occupations of Estonia by Soviet forces, one in the early
stages of World War II, the other after, which led to half a
century of rule from Moscow and the deportation to Siberia of
tens of thousands of Estonians.


Mikko, the Estonian defence ministry spokesman, made a point of
saying that Estonia was not commemorating only those who were
victorious in World War II but also the victims of the war.


"Estonia considers itself a victim of the war. We were attacked
by both sides," he said.


Russia and many members of the large Russian community in Estonia
mark the end of World War II on May 9.


Half the population of Tallinn and around 30 percent of Estonia's
population of 1.34 million are ethnic Russians.


For Estonia and the other two Baltic states, Latvia and
Lithuania, May 9 marks the start of nearly 50 years of Soviet
occupation which began at the end of World War II and ended in
1991, when the Soviet Union crumbled.


Besides the event at the Bronze Soldier, Estonia is holding other
ceremonies at a memorial to Jews killed in the Holocaust, and at
a war monument in Tallinn to Red Army soldiers and Estonians who
fought on the side of Germany.

