

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will visit the United Arab
Emirates and Oman starting this weekend for talks expected to
cover Iraq and Iran's nuclear programme, officials and press
reports said Monday.


An Iranian presidential source told AFP Ahmadinejad is expected
to visit the two countries next Sunday and Monday.


The Omani daily Al-Shabibah expected him to arrive in Muscat on
Saturday for a two-day stay.


Ahmadinejad's trip to Abu Dhabi would be the first by an Iranian
president to anywhere in the UAE since the 1979 Islamic
revolution. Iran has an ongoing dispute with the UAE over three
strategic Gulf islands.


The islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa were seized
by Tehran after British forces left the Gulf region in 1971 and
are claimed by Abu Dhabi.


But despite the row, the UAE is Iran's top trading partner and
officials often exchange visits. Iranian Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki was in Abu Dhabi last week.


Iran's ambassador to the UAE Hamid Reza Asefi told the Iranian
news agency IRNA on Friday that Ahmadinejad would come in
response to an official invitation from President Sheikh Khalifa
bin Zayed al-Nahayan.


Oman has consistently maintained good relations with Iran.


Al-Shabibah said Ahmadinejad and Oman's Sultan Qaboos will
discuss the "special" ties between the two countries and the
situation in Iraq.


It said the Iranian leader would also "outline his country's
stand on the nuclear programme and its peaceful goals," given
concerns among Gulf Arab states about the possible environmental
impact of Iran's nuclear activities.


Iran is under intense Western pressure over its nuclear
programme, which the United States suspects is a cover for the
pursuit of atomic weapons. Tehran insists it is for civilian
purposes only.


Ahmadinejad visited Saudi Arabia in early March amid concerns
there and in other Sunni-dominated Gulf Arab states about the
sectarian violence pitting Iraq's Sunni minority against members
of the governing Shiite majority close to Shiite Iran.

