

Paris Hilton has parted company with her long-time manager who
she blamed for the events that led to her jail sentence for
driving on a suspended license, reports said Monday.


The celebrity socialite was handed a 45-day stay in prison after
a dramatic Los Angeles court hearing on Friday where she was
found to have violated her parole for drink-driving by twice
taking to the wheel while banned.


Hilton, 26, testified that she had only been driving on the
advice of her manager Elliot Mintz, who she claimed had told her
she was allowed to drive and that police officers who had stopped
her must be mistaken.


In a statement reported by celebrity website TMZ.com, Mintz said
he accepted the blame for the "misunderstanding" which means the
Hilton hotel heiress will spend over six weeks in jail starting
from June 5.


Mintz said in the statement he had sent an email to Hilton
"offering my sincerest apology for any misunderstanding she
received from me regarding the terms of her probation."


"I am deeply and profoundly sorry. I told her that I assume
personal responsibility for my part in this matter," Mintz said,
adding that he was convinced Hilton had told the truth in court.


"I believe when stated in court that she believed it was OK for
her to drive under certain circumstances she was being absolutely
truthful.


"Paris is a wonderful person and does not deserve the punishment
that was handed down by the court."


In her first comments since receiving the prison sentence, Hilton
told photographers camped outside her home in the Hollywood Hills
on Saturday that she had been treated unfairly.


"I feel that I was treated unfairly and that the sentence is both
cruel and unwarranted. I don't deserve this," she said.


Hilton, the star of "The Simple Life" reality television show,
must report to the Century Regional Detention Facility in Lynwood
by June 5 or risk being ordered to serve 90 days in jail.


Hilton's lawyer Howard Weitzman, said he will appeal the sentence
which he described as "uncalled for, inappropriate and bordering
on the ludicrous."

