

Sri Lanka Monday shrugged off Britain's suspension of debt relief
to the island, saying the amount of money was "too insignificant"
to worry about.


Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama declined to discuss the move
to stop nearly three million dollars in aid, but said it was
"wrong" for London to hold back money pledged following the 2004
tsunami.


A freeze on foreign aid to Sri Lanka was announced by
Parliamentary Under- Secretary of State for International
Development Gareth Thomas last week.


A British High Commission spokesman said Britain's debt relief to
Sri Lanka this year was three million pounds (5.9 million
dollars), but half of it was being withheld because of rights
concerns.


"How much of aid are we talking about... three million dollars,"
Bogollagama told reporters here. "It is too insignificant for us
to bother (about). Let us look at it in the context of total aid
portfolio."


Britain's parliament last week discussed Sri Lanka's drawn-out
Tamil separatist conflict with members from both sides of the
house criticising Colombo for its rights record.


"The high commissioner (in Colombo) urged the Sri Lankan
government to respond to and address our concerns," Thomas said
in London Wednesday. "Further debt relief payments cannot be made
until that happens."


More than 700 people have "disappeared" in the past year and
security forces and paramilitary units have been accused of
extra-judicial killings, abductions and extortion in this former
British colony.


Britain supports Norwegian-backed peace efforts which began
unravelling from December 2005 when the Tamil Tigers and
government forces began their latest wave of fighting, ignoring a
truce put in place in February 2002.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in fighting since
December 2005, according to Sri Lanka's defence ministry.


Britain has banned the Tamil Tigers since 2001 and has stepped up
moves to block foreign funding for the guerrillas, while at the
same time mounting pressure on Colombo to clean up its rights
record.

