

The British government has formally paved the way for Northern
Ireland's once feuding Protestants and Catholics to share power
in a landmark government set to be appointed in Belfast on
Tuesday.


Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain signed an order Monday
enabling the 108-seat Northern Ireland Assembly to meet to
appoint a new multi-party government of Protestant unionists and
Catholic nationalists.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart
Bertie Ahern were to be present at Tuesday's inauguration
ceremony here after brokering a deal in March to revive power-
sharing following a four-year suspension.


London and Dublin hope the autonomous administration will bring
permanent peace and stability to Northern Ireland, a British-
ruled province where more than 3,000 people have been killed in
sectarian violence since the late 1960s.


With both sides committed to a democratic peaceful process, the
unionists want to retain union with Britain, while Sinn Fein
wants union with the Republic of Ireland to the south.


The violence largely ended after the 1998 Good Friday peace deal,
but efforts for a permanent settlement stalled when power sharing
was suspended in October 2002 over charges that the nationalists
were spying.


In an event unthinkable a few years ago, Ian Paisley, leader of
the Democratic Unionists (DUP), is on Tuesday to become the
province's first minister, while Martin McGuinness, a former
member of the militant group IRA and part of the opposing
Catholic Sinn Fein party, will be his deputy.


McGuinness on Sunday insisted that the coalition of the DUP and
Sinn Fein would succeed, saying that governing with the DUP would
show that self-rule was a better alternative to being controlled
by London.


The assembly was also due to nominate 10 ministers to head
government departments and two junior ministers.


The ministers will be drawn from the DUP, Sinn Fein, the Ulster
Unionists and the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party
(SDLP).


An assembly speaker and three deputy speakers will also be
elected.


Tuesday's ceremony will also allow Blair to resign on a high note
as Britain's prime minister and leader of the Labour Party after
10 years in power.


Having pledged last September to step down within a year, he is
now expected to announce his retirement plans later in the week.


Meanwhile Ahern -- who faces a tough May 24 general election --
could also do with a dose of reflected glory.

