

Nicolas Sarkozy as French president will try to beef up the role
of eurozone governments both in setting an exchange rate policy
and at WTO trade talks, but his margin of maneuver in both cases
will be limited, analysts said Monday.


Sarkozy in his successful campaign against Socialist Segolene
Royal hammered away at the European Central Bank and its monetary
stance, seen as contributing to a recent record-setting run in
the euro against the dollar and threatening eurozone exports.


While he abandoned an initial conviction that the ECB charter
should be revised, he argued strongly that member governments
should play an active part in forging a eurozone exchange rate
policy.


But eurozone finance ministers meeting in Brussels quickly warned
Sarkozy against the temptation to put pressure on the ECB.


Agnes Benassy-Quere, head of the economic research group Cepii,
nonetheless said that "Nicolas Sarkozy could revitalize the
Eurogroup," of finance ministers and is headed by Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker.


Sarkozy, under this scenario, would seek to rally the involvement
of major powers such as Germany and Italy while trying to ensure
that greater attention was paid to public pronouncements by
Juncker on the euro or the Japanese yen.


But Germany, unlike France, does not appear to have suffered
unduly by the rise in the euro, taking advantage of robust global
momentum to boost its exports.


Sarkozy's stated preference meanwhile for a European "community
preference" in international commerce have been interpreted
abroad as evidence of a protectionist strain.


But according to Elie Cohen, director of the CNRS think tank,
international trade "operates on the basis of treaties and
governments are expected to respect them, unless they can
convince their partners to adopt new ones."


At World Trade Organisation negotiations, aimed at tearing down
barriers to global commerce, Sarkozy could break with the current
French position by showing flexibility in the agricultural
sector, analysts said.


The United States is pressing for lower European Union customs
duties on imported agricultural products and is itself facing
European demands for reductions in official farm subsidies.


But Cohen warned that Sarkozy does not have a lot of options
before him, since it is now up to Washington to spur progress in
the foundering Doha Round trade talks.


"A compromise was worked out several weeks ago," he said but "the
United States was reluctant to pursue it because of electoral
considerations."


Sarkozy has also suggested the imposition of a tax on imports
from countries that do not honor the Kyoto Protocol limiting
greenhouse gas emissions, notably the United States and emerging
market powerhouses China and India.


Cohen however said it was "impossible to impose taxes
unilaterally" and recalled that developing countries have not
been asked to sign the Kyoto document.


In addition Germany, which sees China and India as potent
markets, would likely oppose any such tax.


Sarkozy finally has called for a Small Business Act in France,
under which a portion of government contracts would be reserved
for small- and medium-sized enterprises.


But that initiative, economists have pointed out, would have to
be approved in WTO negotiations.

