

An explosion in Ukraine knocked out one of the main pipelines
exporting Russian gas to the European Union on Monday, but
officials were quick to say that supplies would not be affected.


A "large explosion" cut the pipeline, which carries Siberian gas
through Ukraine to Germany and other EU clients, said Viktoria
Ruban, spokeswoman for the Ukrainian emergency situations
ministry.


The blast occurred at about 1125 GMT on a section south of the
Ukrainian capital Kiev, tearing out a 30-metre (32-yards) length
of pipeline and hurling debris hurled 150 metres (yards), she
said.


Emergency services put out a fire at the scene and investigators
were working to uncover the cause of the explosion, the Ukrainian
state gas company Naftogaz said.


The incident immediately raised fears of gas shortfalls in
Europe, which relies heavily on Russian supplies, but Russia's
gas exporting monopoly Gazprom quickly assured that deliveries
would still reach clients.


"No limits on gas supplies to European customers have occurred,"
Gazprom said in a statement.


Naftogaz also promised no disruptions. "Ukraine's commitments on
transit of natural gas to European customers are being completely
respected," a statement said.


The emergency situations ministry said a bypass route was used to
ensure continued supplies.


The Urengoi-Uzhgorod pipeline has a capacity of 27.9 billion
cubic metres of gas a year, Interfax news agency reported -- a
sizeable share of the 87.8 billion cubic metres exported to
western Europe, according to 2002 figures on the Gazprom website.


The European Union is the biggest foreign gas market for Russia,
the world's leading natural gas producer. Nearly all of Ukraine's
energy imports come via Russia.


The incident revived memories of gas shortfalls throughout
western Europe at the start of 2006 when Gazprom cut off supplies
through Ukraine due to a pricing dispute with the ex-Soviet
republic.


The 2006 crisis sparked concerns in the West over the reliability
of Russia as a supplier and accusations that Moscow is using its
huge energy reserves as a weapon against weaker ex-Soviet
neighbours.


In Poland, a spokesman for gas company PGNiG said the early signs
were positive.


"There was no disruption to gas supplies," Tomasz Fill said. "It
is difficult to foresee the consequences of the explosion for
Poland. We are waiting for official information from Kiev."

