

Israeli politicians expressed hope of a change in French policy
towards the Middle East Monday following the election victory of
Nicolas Sarkozy, while Arab leaders called for a continuation of
longstanding French support.


In Israel, opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu described
Sarkozy, who has a Jewish grandparent, as "a friend of Israel"
who was likely to pay greater heed to the security needs of the
Jewish state.


Among the Palestinians, both president Mahmud Abbas and the
Islamist Hamas party which leads the government expressed hope
that his election would spell no change to French support.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert spoke to Sarkozy over the phone "to
congratulate him on his victory in the name of the state of
Israel," Olmert's office said.


The French president-elect told Olmert: "I am a friend of Israel
and Israel can always rely on my friendship," it added.


Olmert said in a statement that he was "convinced that the
relations between Israel and France will develop and deepen
during his mandate."


Netanyahu said that "with Sarkozy, France's politics will be much
more balanced.


"He is sensitive to Israel's security needs and can make himself
heard in Arab countries."


The Israeli press was equally enthusiastic.


"A new era in relations with France," said a front-page headline
in the mass- selling Yediot Aharonot.


"The Jewish origins of the next Catholic French president have
provoked large hopes in Jerusalem," it said.


The Palestinian president "congratulated Mr Sarkozy on his
election to the presidency and expressed to him his hope that
France will continue its support for the Palestinian people and
their rights," his spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina told AFP.


He also expressed hope that Sarkozy would "work toward lifting
the siege" a reference to a freeze on direct aid to the
Palestinian government imposed by the West after the Islamist
Hamas movement, considered a terror group by the European Union
and the United States, formed a cabinet alone in March 2006.


The Islamists formed a coalition with Abbas's secular Fatah party
on March 17 in the hope of securing an end to the aid freeze but
the European Union and the United States have so far refused to
resume aid, saying the government must first renounce violence
and recognise Israel and past peace deals.


A Hamas spokesman also expressed hope of French support for an
end to the aid freeze.


"We hope that this change will lead to cooperation with the
national unity government and that Sarkozy will contribute to
lifting the siege against the Palestinian people and support
their legitimate rights," Fawzi Barhum told AFP.


King Abdullah II of Jordan said he hoped Sarkozy would continue
to maintain close French relations with the Arab world.


"France has strong and historic relations with Jordan and all
Arab counties and has been always a key supporter of Arab causes,
in particular the Palestinian cause," the official Petra news
agency quoted the king as saying.


Syria, which had difficult relations with France under outgoing
President Jacques Chirac, said it hoped for a more constructive
relationship under Sarkozy.


Chirac was a close friend of billionaire Lebanese former premier
Rafiq Hariri, who was killed in a 2005 bombing widely blamed on
Syria, and has strongly resisted any opening to Damascus.


"We are expecting Mr Sarkozy to reevaluate relations between
France and Syria which have been strained over the past two years
because of the prejudiced views of the outgoing president towards
Syria," the editor of government daily Ath- Thawra, Khalaf al-
Jarad, told AFP.


"We are hoping for relations based on objectivity and not the
sort of personal animosity that characterised the Chirac era."

