

A top aide to embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz
resigned Monday, saying the controversy surrounding the
development lender made it difficult for him to be effective.


Kevin Kellems, the director of strategy and an adviser to
Wolfowitz since June 2005, told AFP he had resigned to pursue
other opportunities.


"Given the current environment surrounding the leadership of the
World Bank Group, it is very difficult to be effective in helping
to advance the mission of the institution," he said.


"Therefore I have decided to leave for other opportunities."


Wolfowitz has been under fire since early April for his role in
arranging a pay hike and promotion for his companion and fellow
World Bank employee, Shaha Riza, when she was seconded to the US
State Department after he became bank president in June 2005.


Wolfowitz, a former assistant secretary of defense, has told an
investigatory panel he acted on the advice of the bank's ethics
committee in trying to resolve a potential conflict of interest
between himself and Riza.


But bank officials contend that he was never directed to
personally order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth
nearly 200,000 dollars for his Libyan-born companion.


The lingering controversy is threatening to hobble the World
Bank's traditional lending and development activities, notably an
anti-corruption campaign targeting beneficiaries of bank
assistance.


Kellems, a former journalist, had been an adviser to Wolfowitz at
the Pentagon and subsequently was a spokesman for Vice President
Dick Cheney before taking the World Bank position.


The spat between the World Bank president and key high-level
staffers has pitched the institution into crisis amid an internal
inquiry into Wolfowitz's actions.


A World Bank investigatory panel is due to report its findings to
the bank's board soon although it was unclear what action the
board may take despite mounting calls for Wolfowitz's
resignation.


Wolfowitz last week defended his comportment, saying he had acted
within World Bank rules in requesting pay hikes and promotions
for Riza.


"It is grossly unfair and wrong to suggest that I intended to
mislead anyone, and I urge the committee to reject the allegation
that I lack credibility," Wolfowitz said in a letter to the
investigatory panel.


"I vehemently deny that I went beyond what I understood to be the
guidance I received" from bank officials, Wolfowitz said.


Wolfowitz, 63, was nominated to lead the bank in March 2005 by US
President George W. Bush and quickly moved to root out corruption
in its lending, making the scandal over the 200,000 dollar pay
package accorded Riza even more indigestible for some.


His tenure at the bank has been rough from the beginning, as he
sought to change the way the bank handles its 20 billion dollar-
plus in loans each year around the world.

