

A top US envoy to Somalia pledged Saturday to help stabilise the
battered country, holding a rare high-level meeting with its
leaders as insurgents dug in against Ethiopian forces in the
capital.


US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer, the most senior US official to visit Somalia since 1994,
said she wanted to highlight the suffering there after some of
the worst fighting in its history.


"I'm here to set international attention to the challenges people
are facing, particularly the efforts to end fighting in Mogadishu
... and humanitarian crises as the result of the fighting," she
said in Baidoa, the government base northwest of the capital.


Last week, an offensive by the government's Ethiopian allies
against insurgents triggered four days of the worst fighting in
Mogadishu in more than 15 years, killing hundreds of people and
forcing tens of thousands to flee.


Speaking from the Kenyan capital Nairobi after talks with
President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and Prime Minister Ali Mohamed
Gedi in Baidoa, Frazer called for a return to dialogue.


"We talked about the need for a ceasefire, a permanent ceasefire
and a return to a political process of trying to build support
and legitimacy for the transitional federal government," she
said.


"Everybody used excessive force when you talk about the civilian
casualties, and it is very clear that you ultimately cannot
address the extremists, terrorist, insurgent attacks force on
force."


Washington backed Ethiopia's intervention to oust Islamist
militia allegedly linked to Al-Qaeda from Mogadishu three months
ago, but clashes have resumed in the past few weeks with Islamic
and other fighters.


Remnants of the Islamists have mounted attacks, demanding the
withdrawal of the Ethiopian troops and the African Union
peacekeepers.


Frazer said the United States was "moving forward" with a 40
million dollar (30 million euro) aid package for Somalia and had
asked Congress to provide a further 60 million dollars, according
to a US State Department statement.


It will be used to support development and security, provide
humanitarian assistance and help the AU mission in Somalia, which
currently comprises only 1,200 Ugandan soldiers but which Frazer
emphasised must be supported.


Meanwhile insurgents were strengthening their positions in the
capital, piling up heaps of sand with bulldozers to block streets
and digging trenches.


"We have to make trenches everywhere in this city to show that we
are solid and have confidence in winning this war against the
Ethiopian invasion," a young fighter who refused to be named told
AFP near the football stadium where Ethiopian troops are based.


"They are using tanks and other heavy weapons so we have to dig
deep holes to prevent tanks," said Mohamed Dhuhul Moalim, another
fighter armed with an AK47 assault rifle.


"We have no confidence in this ceasefire agreement (that followed
the ousting of the Islamists). I think this fighting will
continue unless Ethiopians leave our country."


Somalia has been torn apart by warlords and other factions since
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was driven from power in 1991. The
transitional government created in 2004 has failed to impose
control on the country.


Foreign Minister Ismail Mohamed Hurre said in remarks published
on Saturday that a reconciliation conference due to have been
held this month has been postponed until May "until certain
material conditions can be met."


He told the Saudi-owned Arabic-language daily Asharq Al-Awsat
there was "no question of any involvement of or participation by
the Islamic courts," the powerful bodies which oppose the
government.


But he added that "when we arrive at a constitutional phase, they
can found a political party."


Somalia needs around 42.2 million dollars to organise the
reconciliation conference, but some potential donors have made
aid conditional on moderate Islamists also being invited.


"If some people insist that the Islamic courts take part in
negotiations, that would mean the involvement of former warlords
in a solution," Hurre said.

