

A clear majority of voters in Madagascar's referendum backed
constitutional changes which would increase the president's
powers and make English an official language on this Indian Ocean
island, results published Saturday showed.


According to figures released by the interior ministry from 85
percent of the 17,586 polling stations, 75.24 percent of votes
cast in Wednesday's poll were in favour of change, and 24.76
percent against.


AFP calculated that it would now be mathematically impossible for
the "no" votes to catch up with the "yes", as the polling
stations which have not yet announced their results only concern
one million voters. The "yes" camp already has a lead of more
than 1.4 million votes.


Changes proposed to the constitution would enhance the
president's powers, notably allowing the head of state to
legislate by decree in emergency situations.


The changes would also eliminate the autonomy of six provinces, a
step which authorities believe will facilitate ambitious
development plans, and would make English an official language
alongside French and Malagasy for this former French colony.


The final results, expected Sunday, must still be approved by the
constitutional high court.


"It's a victory for change, not for a party or for (President)
Marc Ravalomanana," said Razoarimihaja Solofonantenaina, head of
the president's TIM party. "It's going to provide new momentum
for the country."


Opposition members claimed the vote had been tainted by fraud but
provided no proof.


"It's a mascarade," said Roland Ratsiraka, who finished third in
December's presidential election and had campaigned for a no
vote. "The yes vote lost in all regional capitals, but won
wherever we had no representatives."


Herizo Razafimahaleo, another failed presidential candidate who
campaigned against the referendum, said he was surprised the yes
vote won in areas where the president had performed poorly in the
December election.


Madagascar's constitution dates back to its independence from
France in 1960 and was last revised in 1998.

