

Jose Mourinho insists Chelsea's 1-0 win over Tottenham on
Saturday has not increased the pressure on Premiership leaders
Manchester United even though it cut the gap at the top to three
points.


Blues manager Mourinho is convinced United, who play at
Portsmouth in Saturday's late match, have been granted a lucky
break that has eased any title jitters around Old Trafford.


And Mourinho says Sir Alex Ferguson's side have been let off the
hook, having seen their league match against on-form Chelsea next
week re-scheduled.


The championship showdown between Chelsea and United orginally
scheduled for next weekend has been postponed until May 9 - the
penultimate game of the season - because both clubs are in FA Cup
semi-final action on April 14 and 15.


That means Chelsea, who have an inferior goal difference to
United, have to rely on United dropping points against other
teams before their clash if they are to overhaul them.


"I think they have no pressure," Mourinho said. "They are top of
the league. It is the same story as the previous season when
people were saying Chelsea were under pressure and I was saying
there is no pressure.


"But they are very lucky with the fixtures because they always
play before Chelsea and today is the only time they play after
us.


"And they are very lucky because they don't play here next week.
Can you imagine Man Utd playing at Stamford Bridge next week?
They are very lucky.


"The game I think they can slip up is Stamford Bridge. It is the
only thing I control. I don't play for Portsmouth. Manchester
United is a better team than them and if they play well they will
win. If they play bad maybe they have a penalty and win anyway.
It is difficult."


Mourinho singled out Ricardo Carvalho for special praise after
the Portugal defender's long-range strike in the 53rd minute
ended Tottenham's resistance.


"I'm glad we speak about him (Carvalho) because sometimes we are
a bit unfair," Mourinho said. "We go always to the same names but
we forget others.


"With Petr Cech, John Terry, Michael Essien, Joe Cole and Arjen
Robben injured for a long time, Ricardo was unbelievable.


"We are happy he scored the goal for us but it was not his best.
I saw him score twice against Manchester United, once at Old
Trafford and once here.


"I'm happy because we won and for a long, long time we don't lose
a single match. We have seven or eight consecutive victories.
Tottenham gave us a hard game, so the meaning of the three points
is even more important."

