

Bobby Zamora breathed new life into West Ham's Premiership
survival bid after his brilliant goal earned a shock 1-0 victory
over Arsenal on Saturday.


The former Tottenham forward's magnificent 20-yard lob deep into
first-half stoppage time maintained the Hammers' recent
resurgence and sent the Gunners spinning to their first ever
defeat at the Emirates stadium.


Defeat dealt a damaging blow to Arsene Wenger's hopes of
qualifying for next season's Champions League but the Frenchman
will be bemused at how his team failed to crush their London
rivals.


The answer is Robert Green. The West Ham goalkeeper produced one
of the season's best individual performances, pulling off a
string of stunning saves to prevent his team succumbing to a
potentially decisive defeat.


Arsenal could well bemoan their luck in facing an inspired Green,
but this was an all-too-familiar story of careless, wasteful
finishing and West Ham's doggedness was worthy of reward.


The omens for Wenger were not encouraging even before kick-off.
West Ham may have chalked up just one away victory all season but
they travelled across London with their hopes perked by back-to-
back Premiership wins and boasting a three-game unbeaten run
against the Gunners.


That, however, counted for nothing in a manic opening period when
Arsenal could have put the match out of sight. The tone was set
within 60 seconds, when Cesc Fabregas burst on to Tomas Rosicky's
through-ball but shot too close to Green, and in the first 15
minutes the hosts could have been six goals ahead.


Emmanuel Adebayor missed the two gilt-edged chances, the Togo
forward seeing one shot saved by Green and blazing another over
the crossbar, while Freddie Ljungberg should have done better
than shooting straight at Green when put clear by Rosicky.


The Czech was buzzing with energy but even he was not immune to
Arsenal's profligacy. Rosicky had the whole game to aim at when
he was picked out by Alexander Hleb's cut-back only to shoot well
over, although he almost made ammends with a delicious shot that
curled just wide in the 22nd minute.


But Arsenal's failure to make an early breakthrough tenderised
their already wafer-thin confidence and West Ham gradually began
to claw their way back into the game.


They still struggled to make head-way until first-half stoppage
time, when Lucas Neill's speculative punt upfield caught out Kolo
Toure. Zamora nipped in behind the Ivory Coast defender and
propelled a superb first-time lob over Jens Lehmann from just
outside the penalty area.


From then, it was just a question of West Ham could hold on.
Arsenal flooded forward in ever-increasing numbers but they found
Green in the form of his life.


The England goalkeeper leapt to his right to deflect away
Gilberto's fizzing drive and then produced one of the stops of
the season to block Adebayor's header - thumped towards the
bottom corner at point-blank range - with his finger-tips.


When Arsenal did evade Green's grasp, they were denied by other
means. Fabregas shuddered the crossbar with a venomous 20-yard
strike and Gilberto somehow headed wide after being picked out by
Emmanuel Eboue's cross.


The hosts continued to search desperately for an equaliser, but
proof that this was simply not their day came in the 85th minute
when Gilberto's stabbed effort trickled past Green and bounced
off the right-hand post.

