

Real Zaragoza blew the Spanish title race wide open with a 1-0
home win over reigning champions Barcelona on Saturday, the only
goal of the game coming from Argentine sharpshooter Diego Milito.


Barcelona still lead La Liga by two points but will lose pole
position with nine games remaining if Sevilla beat Racing
Santander on Sunday.


Milito found the net after 58 minutes, chipping the ball past
Barca goalkeeper Victor Valdes from close range after an
oustanding pass from close to the touchline by his Argentine
compatriot Andres D'Alessandro.


Milito's 19th goal of the season makes him the joint top scorer
in the Spanish first division, and was a just reward for Zaragoza
being the best side up to that point.


First half chances fell to D'Alessandro, Carlos Diogo and Sergio
Garcia as Barca, who looked a pale shadow of the side that swept
everything before them in Spain and Europe last season, grimly
held on until the break.


Barca almost equalised within seconds of Milito's goal but
Zaragoza goalkeeper Cesar Perez came out on top a one-on-one
situation with Deco and the visitors never had a better chance in
the remaining half hour.


Zaragoza are now unbeaten in seven games and are in contention to
qualify for the Champions League for the first time.


They move up to fourth place, ahead of Valencia on goal
difference, although the 2002 and 2004 Spanish champions have a
game in hand and play at struggling Athletic Bilbao later on
Saturday.


Barcelona were without their three-time African Player of the
Year Samuel Eto'o, who sustained a muscle strain at the top of
his right leg in training earlier this week.


Media speculation in Spain suggested Eto'o had actually been left
out to prevent more racist taunting of the Cameroon striker, but
it was a suggestion strongly refuted by Barcelona coach Frank
Rijkaard.


"His absence is because he's not fit to play. For us, it's always
better if he's with the team," said Rijkaard on Friday.


Eto'o threatened to walk off the pitch during last season's match
at Zaragoza after receiving racist abuse from the home crowd.


Sevilla are second and have only lost one league match this
season at their Sanchez Pizjuan stadium but face seventh-placed
Racing Santander, who are unbeaten in their last six games, on
Sunday.


Real Madrid are three points further back in third and have a
tricky game against Osasuna looming on Sunday.


Both sides have been hit by suspensions, with Real losing
midfielder Fernando Gago and Jose Maria 'Guti' Gutierrez while
Osasuna will be without their own midfield pair of Hector Font
and Juanfran Torres.


Osasuna will also be without top scorer Roberto Soldado who is on
loan from Madrid and cannot play against his old club because of
a clause in the deal.


Former England captain David Beckham will miss his fourth
straight league game for Real Madrid following a knee injury last
month.


However, Roberto Carlos and Jose Antonio Reyes have recovered
from their injuries and coach Fabio Capello included both men in
the Real squad to face the Pamplona-based side.

