

The force of this week's Solomons earthquake has lifted an island
in the South Pacific archipelago and pushed out its shoreline by
tens of metres, exposing surrounding reefs.


The remote island of Ranongga in the western Solomon Islands used
to have submerged coral reefs that attracted scuba divers from
around the world.


But since Monday's massive earthquake in the Solomon Islands, the
reefs are now exposed above the water and are dying, an AFP
reporter and photographer have seen.


The AFP team, which travelled to Ranongga on a chartered outboard
after the quake, saw exposed reefs bleaching in the sun, and
covered with dead fish, eels, clams and other marine life.


The 8.0-magnitude quake, caused by a shift in the Earth's
tectonic plates, triggered a tsunami that killed at least 34
people in the remote western Solomons and left 5,500 homeless.


Aid agencies have yet to reach Ranongga, but the AFP team saw the
devastation that has permanently altered the geography of the
island, 32-kilometres (20-miles) long and 8-kilometres wide.


Although Ranongga escaped the fury of the tsunami, the seismic
upheaval from the quake pushed out the shoreline by up to 70
metres, local resident Hendrik Kegala also said.


"Plenty big noise," he told AFP in the local pidgin dialect.


"Water go back and not come back again," he added, saying the
whooshing sound of the receding water and the shaking from the
quake occurred simultaneously.


The loss of the reefs was a huge blow for the fishing communities
that are dotted along Ranongga's coast, said Jackie Thomas,
acting manager for Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) in the
Solomons.


"The fish from the reefs are the major source of protein for the
villagers," she told AFP from the provincial capital Gizo.


"They use shells for tools and rely on the sea for many of their
basic needs.


"It just shows the incredible force of the earthquake, to move a
whole island."


She said the reefs around Ranongga were a protected marine
environment and locals had worked hard with WWF in recent years
to ensure that they were managed sustainably.


"Now it's another marine environment that has been destroyed,"
she said.


"Who knows if the coral reefs will recover and the fish will come
back? Villagers will have to travel further to find the same sort
of food and nutrition they've relied on -- the whole food chain
has been disrupted."

