

It's as cold and windy as a British Open. The course is as long
and punishing as a US Open and the leaderboard is filled with
unheralded players like those who often win the PGA Championship.


Welcome to the new version of the Masters tournament, a scarier
rebooted edition of the year's first major golf tournament than
elite golfers have ever seen before thanks in part to the first
rain-free week of play in a decade.


"In a sadistic way, you have to enjoy the challenge of it all,"
England's Justin Rose said.


Augusta National Golf Club crushed golf's greatest for a third
consecutive day here Saturday, although for many it seems like
they scheduled a Masters and instead staged a US Open, where the
course is king and par often wins a title.


"You don't expect to play in 50 mph winds, but you do what you
can," said US veteran Fred Couples. "I can't imagine the course
being like this (when leaders tee off). They put some water on
the greens."


They needed to.


"The greens are terrifying," said US veteran Davis Love. "It's
the hardest I've ever played, or at least the hardest you can
make a course and still get the guys to show up."


Rich Beem, the 2002 PGA Championship winner, had to laugh after a
75 Saturday.


"It was like trying to land a golf ball on your driveway but your
driveway has mounds on them and they stick the pin near the
mounds. Sometimes you have to just giggle about it," Beem said.


"Best of luck. I'm glad I'm done."


Augusta National member Fred Ridley, a former US Golf Association
president who knows all too well how to set up a punitive course
from his days guiding the US Open, became the rules and
competition committee chairman this year.


"Our goal is to remain consistent and present a golf course that
we're proud of and one that will be very similar to what you have
seen in past years," Ridley said on the eve of the Masters.


This week, similar has deep fangs.


While not silencing all of the legendary roars from spectators
for great shotmaking, the breaks in the quiet are fewer and
further between because players must be patient and avoid errors
rather than make spectacular shots.


"Most of those roars are par putts from 30 or 40 feet, certainly
not eagles and not too many birdies out there," said 12-time
major winner Tiger Woods.


"This golf course is playing really difficult right now and
you're probably not going to hear the roars you normally hear."


Just 10 years after Woods imposed his will upon Augusta National
for a 72-hole course-record of 18-under par 270, the mark for the
highest winning score in Masters history is in jeopardy this
year.


"This course is very difficult and you have to play defense out
there," two-time Masters winner Tom Watson said.


Never known as an easy course, an Augusta National layout that
has been stretched to 7,445 yards imposed its highest 72-hole
winning total in 1954 and 1956, one-over 289s by Sam Snead and
Jack Burk respectively.


"Even par is looking very good right now," Fiji's Vijay Singh
said. "It's not going to get any easier unless they water the
greens more than they are."


To be sure, Augusta National officials could still use water and
pin placements to make certain there is the traditional back-nine
drama on Sunday rather than a set of conservative players waiting
for rivals to self-destruct.


But some see the end of the Masters as they knew it.


"If you don't hit a perfect shot and sometimes even a perfect
shot is not good enough, you are going to make bogeys," England's
Lee Westwood said. "The course just asks too many questions that
there is no answer too.


"When the course was shorter, more of us would have had an answer
but now there are only six or seven people in the field who can
win it. It's a shame because it used to be a shotmakers course
but now I don't think it is."

