

Some 40 people have been killed and more than 70 injured in
fierce sectarian clashes between Sunni and Shiite Muslims in
northern Pakistan, officials said Saturday.


"So far we have received reports that 40 people have been killed
in clashes in two days of fighting between two religious groups
in Parachinar," said Arif Habib, a top official dealing with
security in tribal areas bordering Afghanistan.


Local officials said more than 70 people were also injured in the
fighting.


Parachinar, a tribal town close to the Afghan border in
Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, has a history of
sectarian violence between Sunni and Shiite communities.


The town was placed under curfew on Friday after fighting erupted
between the rival groups and troops were deployed to restore
order.


Officials said the soldiers had been given shoot-on-sight orders
to curb the violence.


Parachinar administration official Sahibzada Anees said army
troops backed up by gunship helicopters were patrolling the
streets of the town, which has a population of around 70,000.


Officials said 14 deaths occurred when rockets crashed into a
house of a resident early Saturday. Among those killed were two
women and four children.


Clashes between the two communities over a shrine last year left
around 20 people dead.


Anees said trouble erupted after members of the Shiite community
staged a demonstration Friday outside their mosque against local
Sunnis who allegedly chanted anti-Shiite slogans during a
religious rally last week.


Shiites, who account for about 20 per cent of Pakistan's 160
million Sunni- dominated population, are in the majority in
Parachinar.


Sectarian violence involving Sunni and Shiite militants has
claimed more than 4,000 lives since the late 1980s.


The bloodshed comes while unrelated battles between tribesmen and
Al-Qaeda foreign militants have been raging in South Waziristan
tribal district, some 180 kilometres (112 miles) northeast of
Parachinar.


The Waziristan battles have left more than 250 dead, mostly
Unzbek and Chechan fighters in the past three weeks.

