

Voters headed to the polls under tight security Saturday in
India's most populous state Uttar Pradesh with tens of millions
of people eligible to cast ballots during the month-long
elections.


Voters were choosing from parties headed by colourful characters
-- including a former wrestler and a woman from India's
untouchable classes -- both with corruption allegations hanging
over their heads.


Accused murderers and bandits were also among the candidates in
the state, known as one of India's most crime-ridden.


The national Election Commission was seeking to ensure clean
elections as previous polls have been marked by violent clashes.


The polls took place under the scrutiny of more than 50,000
paramilitary forces dispatched to polling sites in the first
tranche of voting, which saw 62 constituencies casting their
ballot.


Some 16 million voters were eligible to cast ballots in the first
round of the marathon poll being held in seven stages in the
state of 170 million people.


By early afternoon, more than a quarter of those eligible to vote
had turned out, the state's chief electoral officer Anuj Kumar
Bishnoi said.


Some 403 seats are up for grabs in the election which wraps up in
May with two regional parties -- the ruling Samajwadi Party and
the Bahujan Samaj Party -- running neck and neck, according to
pre-election opinion polls.


Police were placed at polling stations in the state's largest
city, Kanpur, a former mill town of 2.7 million that is studded
with gun shops.


"Things are going smoothly, there's absolutely no problem, we
have got adequate security for controlling the situation," said
additional superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Jolly.


Crowds milled near polling booths to have their names checked
against voter identification lists. Senior Kanpur police officer
Javeed Ahmed called the voting operation "huge."


An election worker who had picked up electronic voting machines
for his polling site said he was happy with the arrangements.


"This time they have brought in outside forces," said school
teacher Raj Kumar Agnihotri. "In the past they had police
officers with sticks" who were not able to provide adequate
security, he said.


Travel to districts that were voting was curtailed from late
Friday and shops were closed Saturday.


Scores of women in black burkhas or colourful saris were seen
heading to vote on foot at poll sites near their homes, emerging
with purple or red ink marks on their index fingers to prevent
people from voting more than once.


A third of the candidates of the two top parties in the state
face criminal charges, the Association for Democratic Reforms
election watchdog says.


"It's not an easy job to conduct elections in a state where
criminals and mafia lords also vie for political power," the
state's chief electoral officer, A.K. Bishnoi, said.


Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has appealed to voters to keep
him in power after his chief rival, Mayawati Kumari, who heads
the Bahujan Samaj Party, swore to prosecute him on corruption
charges if she was elected.


"Do you want me to go to jail or do you want me to work?" asked
Yadav, a former wrestler whose Samajwadi Party is supported by
his own Yadav caste and Muslims, at a rally Monday.


"Vote me in to power. Otherwise I will go to jail."


The feisty Mayawati, who rose to power with the support of
Dalits, as the so- called untouchables caste are now known, is
also being investigated for corruption.


Arms sales have been halted until votes are counted on May 11 but
an increasing number of people have come to buy guns for self-
protection, said gun shop owner Afzal Alam.


Yadav's opponents accuse the current government of being lax on
crime.

