

Brazilian Felipe Massa made clear he is aiming at nothing less
than outright victory in Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix after
sweeping to pole position in the final seconds of Saturday's
qualifying session.


The 25-year-old Ferrari driver overcame a worrying moment when
rain threatened during his best flying lap, but went on to claim
his fourth career pole and set up a bid for his first win this
year in the hot, sultry conditions.


"I am quite happy, as you would expect, because I need this," he
said. "In Melbourne, unfortunately, it didn't finish like I
expected because I started from the back," said Massa. "I am not
supposed to start from the back, here things looks a bit
different.


"I intend to have a good race tomorrow, it will be tough. I hope
I can stay in my position from the beginning. It was a great lap,
I tried to do everything I could."


The Ferrari driver had to start from the back of the grid in
Australia after hitting trouble in qualifying when he suffered an
engine failure.


On Saturday, he beat defending double drivers' world champion
Fernando Alonso of Spain, in a McLaren Mercedes-Benz, by more
than three-tenths of a second after a last-gasp flying lap.


It was his fourth pole, following those last year in Turkey,
Japan and Brazil.


Massa, whose Ferrari team dominated the Australian Grand Prix in
which Finnish team-mate Kimi Raikkonen pulled clear to triumph,
admitted the McLarens were very strong in qualifying.


"We expected them to be competitive, but they were really strong
in qualifying and it makes us work even harder to have a good
race tomorrow, but for sure Fernando and Lewis (Hamilton) showed
they are very competitive."


Ferrari new boy Raikkonen, who took pole in Melbourne, conserved
his engine on Saturday after suffering slight problems in
Australia. He settled for third place ahead of Hamilton.


Raikkonen said: "It has been a little bit of guessing what is
going to happen, but the engine is okay in the end. It has been
difficult to get the car right but it is not too bad and for the
race it should be okay.


"I was expecting to have some difficulties, but we should have a
good race." Ferrari team chief Jean Todt, the architect of their
glory years with now retired seven-times champion German Michael
Schumacher, said: "It was very exciting today and went down to
the wire. The weather also added to the tension.


"I was particularly happy for Felipe after his troubles in
Australia and Kimi did a great job to take third. But the real
work is tomorrow. The race is going to be tough for everyone."

