

Nikolay Davydenko and Igor Andreev handed Russia a 2-1 lead in
their Davis Cup quarter-final tie by stunning the traditionally
strong French doubles duo here Saturday.


The Russians claimed a 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 victory over
Michael Llodra and Sebastien Grosjean in three hours 23 minutes
to give the hosts a crucial lead going into Sunday's deciding
reverse singles rubbers.


Before this match France had won 22 of its last 31 doubles
matches, however France captain Guy Forget's decision to
experiment with Llodra and Grosjean this time failed to pay off.


The victory stunned the Russians, neither of whom had played
doubles in over a year.


"We managed to do something that looked completely impossible
just four hours ago," an overawed Davydenko said after the match.


"Neither of us had played doubles for at least a year and came
here today with just one wish -- not to disgace ourselves. I'm
really surprised we managed to win."


"It was a really tough match," Andreev added. "And we were even
more pessimistic about our chances after the opening set, which
we lost so easily."


France however started confidently, breaking Davydenko's serve
early before racing to a 4-1 lead and wrapping up the opening set
in 38 minutes.


Grosjean and Llodra should have stretched their advantage in the
second set but they failed to capitalise on Davydenko's
increasingly shaky service game.


That gave the Russians the chance to take it all the way, and
they pounced to secure the set in the 12th game just as Grosjean
was going through a dire service game of his own.


Grosjean's woes continued into the third set, the Frenchman
losing his service to give the hosts a quick 6-3 win.


The French replied positively in the fourth, breaking twice to
level at two sets all.


In the deciding set it took until the eighth game for the match
to turn, the hosts breaking Grosjean's serve again to set up
victory in the set and the match.


On Friday Paul-Henri Mathieu had given France the advantage after
he battled back from a set down to beat Davydenko 2-6, 6-2, 6-1,
7-5 in the opening rubber.


Mikhail Youzhny than beat Richard Gasquet of France in a marathon
five-setter 6-2, 6-3, 6-7 (8/10), 5-7, 8-6 to level proceedings
at 1-1.


Sunday's singles will decide this season's Davis Cup semi-
finalist to face Germany in a tie for a place in the final.

