

US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer on Saturday said she wanted to bring world attention to
war-torn Somalia amid some of the worst fighting in its history.


"I'm here to set international attention to the challenges people
are facing, particularly the efforts to end fighting in
Mogadishu... and humanitarian crises as the result of the
fighting," she said upon arriving in the country for a surprise
visit.


Frazer, who on Saturday became the highest ranking US official to
visit Somalia since 1994, also called for more support for the
African Union peacekeepers in Somalia which currently consist
only of some 1,200 Ugandan soldiers.


Last week, an Ethiopian offensive against insurgents triggered
four days of the worst fighting in Mogadishu in more than 15
years, killing hundreds and forcing tens of thousands to flee.


"The fighting that took place in Mogadishu needs to have a tough
and prominent ceasefire mechanism," Frazer said after meeting
with Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and Prime Minister
Ali Mohamed Gedi in the government base of Baidoa northwest of
the capital.


Frazer arrived in Mogadishu after this week's meeting of an
international panel on Somalia in Cairo which called for a
ceasefire.


"We also emphasised the need to assist the African Union mission
in Somalia to help stabilise Mogadishu and Somalia," she said.


Remnant members of an Islamist movement defeated late last year
by Ethiopia- backed Somali government forces have mounted
attacks, demanding the withdrawal of the Ethiopian troops and the
AU peacekeepers.


Frazer, who was also accompanied by the US ambassador to Kenya
Michael Ranneberger, left Baidoa for Nairobi.


Washington backed Ethiopia's intervention in Somalia to oust
Islamist militia from the capital three months ago but clashes
have resumed in the past few weeks with Islamic and other
fighters.


Somalia has been torn apart by warlords and other factions since
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991. The transitional
government created in 2004 has failed to impose control of the
country.


A National Reconciliation Conference is set to start April 16,
despite threats of disruption by hardline Islamists alleged by
Washington to have links with Al- Qaeda.

