

Australia captain Ricky Ponting is eager to have the injury-prone
Shane Watson back in his side at the World Cup, so important is
the all-rounder to the balance of the reigning champions' team.


The 25-year-old medium pacer and hard-hitting batsman sustained a
calf muscle strain while bowling during Australia's 10-wickets
Super Eights thrashing of Bangladesh last Saturday and will miss
Sunday's clash against England here at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium.


The initial prognosis was that Watson would be available for the
April 20 clash against New Zealand in Grenada - table-toppers
Australia's final fixture before the semi-finals should they, as
seems likely, qualify for the last four.


But Ponting said he hadn't given up hope of Watson being fit to
face 1996 champions Sri Lanka in Grenada four days earlier.


"The earlier we can have him back the better," said Ponting.


"If we get him back for the Sri Lanka game that would be great
but we'll just keep our fingers crossed and hope he keeps coming
along well.


"I think originally everyone was hoping he'd be back for the New
Zealand game. He's getting around OK now.


"I think his programme has been not to do anything at all, not
for this first week and let it heal as much as he can. He's been
doing all his rehab, four or five times a day and he's had lots
of physio."


Queensland's Watson, who has played just three Tests, has seen
his international career blighted by fitness problems.


He injured his shoulder in his third Test appearance in Brisbane
in November 2005 against West Indies.


The all-rounder made his one-day debut international debut in
2002 but his 62-game career in the shorter format has also been
interrupted by injuries.


Chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad, he withdrew because of a
back problem and had to pull out of Australia's one-day squad
that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago because of a right calf
strain sustained while making 201 in the Pura Cup final against
Victoria.


He then missed the whole of Australia's recent 5-0 Ashes
hammering of England with a hamstring strain.


Ponting added: "It's no secret he would have played the first
Ashes Test against England if he had been fit.


"He's had a horrible run of injuries. Maybe he has to have a good
look and all of our staff have a good look at the way he's
training, his weight programmes and his training programmes and
everything like that and give him a more resilient body.


"He's an extremely talented player and any team round the world
is looking for an all-rounder that can give you what he can give
you in both forms of the game so let's hope his body can stand up
a bit better because I think he's got a very bright future


"The great shame about it being someone like Shane is that he
works harder than anybody else on his body and at the moment he's
having a bad run."


With New Zealand quick Michael Mason also sustaining a calf
injury on this ground, Ponting said the heavily sanded surface
could have played a role in both injuries.


"Calf strains in cricket are a very unusual thing really. It
might have something to do with this ground, the big sandy
heavier sort of base."


Watson's injury has left Australia - unbeaten at this tournament
- with a dilemma over whether to play an extra bowler in Mitchell
Johnson or Stuart Clark or a batsman in Brad Hodge against
England.

