

Super 14 champions the Canterbury Crusaders underlined their
credentials as contenders this year with a 53-0 demolition of the
Western Force here Saturday.


Only two points separated the second-placed Crusaders from the
third-placed Force going into the match but the eight-try blitz
from the home side exposed a gulf in class.


The Crusaders forwards stole the limelight from their vaunted
backline, scoring seven of the eight tries between them.


Lock Ross Filipo led the way with three tries, with reserve
forward Kieran Reid bagging two and flanker Richie McCaw and No.
8 Mose Tuiali'i one each.


All Black winger Rico Gear scored the first touchdown as the
Crusaders onslaught got underway. All Black star flyhalf Daniel
Carter had a generally quiet game by his standards but kicked
five conversions and a penalty.


Filipo had a towering match in the loose as did Tuali'i before
being replaced.


"That's the way you want to play rugby, you want to use (the
ball)," skipper McCaw said afterwards.


"You could see at the end the guys wanted the game to carry on,
they were having a lot of fun and that's what you play for," he
said.


The spectacle was marred when the Force's replacement hooker
Brendan Cannon crumpled to the ground in a collapsed scrum in the
69th minute and had to be stretchered from the field.


Even by halftime, the game seemed beyond the Force after the
Crusaders ran in three unanswered tries for a 22-0 lead against
opponents who seemed to have few attacking ideas.


Storming No. 8 Tuali'i had a hand in all of his side's first half
tries. He broke from the back of a ruck to feed fullback Leon
Macdonald, who dropped a floating pass into Gear's hands with the
try line open after nine minutes.


Tuiali'i scored himself four minutes later, forcing his way over
from in close after the Crusaders' forwards camped on the Force's
try line.


Replacement Keiran Reid ensured the Force would go into half time
with their heads down, scoring after Tuiali'i took the ball from
the back of a scrum and broke down the blindside before putting
Reid into the clear.


The Crusaders emphasised their dominance up front just a minute
into the scond spell with a 25-metre driving maul to the Force's
line where lock Ross Filippo went over for the Crusaders' fourth
try.


Tries to McCaw in the 61st minute and Filipo's second with 10
minutes remaining underlined the one-way traffic during the
spell.


Reid scored his second with four minutes to go and Filipo's third
took the home side over the 50 mark right on full time.

