

Palestinian prisoners and an Israeli soldier seized last June
could be swapped soon if Israel cooperates on a list of names of
detainees handed over to it for release from its jails, the
spokesman for the Palestinian prime minister said on Saturday.


The handover of the list of (Palestinian) prisoners "is going to
give a great momentum and boost" to the affair, Ismail Haniya's
spokesman told AFP.


"We are awaiting Israel's position on these names," added Ghazi
Hamad speaking in Gaza. "If Israel cooperates in a serious manner
on this file, I think that the (exchange) operation can be
realized in a short time."


Earlier on Saturday, Palestinian information minister Mustafa al-
Barghuti said Egypt had given Israel a list of Palestinian
prisoners to free in exchange for Corporal Gilad Shalid, whose
capture in a cross-border raid on June 25 sparked a two-month
Israeli incursion into the Gaza Strip in which nearly 200
Palestinians were killed.


An Egyptian delegation "has informed the Palestinian government
that the procedure for an exchange (of prisoners) has started,"
Barghuti told a news conference in Ramallah.


"The Egyptians have transmitted (to Israel) a list of names of
Palestinian prisoners who must be freed. Everything that has been
demanded on the Palestinian side has been transmitted; the ball
is now in the Israeli camp."


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP that the
list carried the names of 450 prisoners, without saying whether
it included senior leaders of Palestinian factions seized by the
Israelis.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's spokesman would not comment
on  Barghuti's statement.


Shalit, 20, was abducted by militants from three Palestinian
groups, including the armed wing of Hamas.


On Friday, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said he was
confident Gaza militants would soon release the Israeli soldier
and an abducted BBC journalist, Alan Johnston.


"I would like to say that we are working to secure Shalit's
release and that these efforts will soon bear fruit. We are
optimistic. He will be released soon," Abbas told the France 24
news channel.


"I am convinced we must free the soldier Shalit. He cannot remain
imprisoned all this time."


Abbas added: "At the same time, we say to the Israelis that they
must free the Palestinian prisoners. But one thing does not
depend on the other. Shalit must be released."

