

A Somali reconciliation conference due to have been held later
this month has been postponed until May, Foreign Minister Ismail
Mohamed Hurre said in remarks published on Saturday.


The minister from the Ethiopian-backed interim government added
that there would be no place at the conference table for the
Islamic courts militia, which was expelled from Mogadishu in
December.


"The transitional government wants reconciliation, and to this
end organised a conference for April 16. However this has been
postponed to next month until certain material conditions can be
met," Hurre told the Arabic-language daily Asharq Al-Awsat.


He said there was "no question of any involvement of or
participation by the Islamic courts" in the conference.


The powerful militia was ousted from south and central Somalia,
inmcluding the capital, at the turn of the year in a Ethiopian-
backed offensive.


Hurre said that since then the Islamic Courts "have left the
political arena" in Somalia and that "when we arrive at a
constitutional phase, they can found a political party."


Somalia needs around 42.2 million dollars (32 million euros) to
organise the reconciliation conference, but some potential donors
have made aid conditional on moderate Islamists also being
invited.


"If some people insist that the Islamic courts take part in
negotiations, that would mean the involvement of former warlords
in a solution" in Somalia, Hurre said without elaborating.


With the 1991 overthrow of dictator Siad Barre, the Horn of
Africa country was plunged into civil war pitting rival clans and
warlords against each other and featuring periodic famines and an
unsuccessful US intervention in 1993.


The Islamists seized Mogadishu from warlords last June after
months of fierce fighting and rapidly expanded their territory,
enforcing strict Sharia law until they were ejected from the
capital by Ethiopian-backed forces.


The transitional government is now trying to restore order, but
for several weeks clashes with Islamists have resulted in
hundreds of deaths in Mogadishu.


Hurre has blamed the fighting on "elements of the Islamic Courts
and international jihadists who are trying to prevent the
government from controlling Mogadishu and Somalia."


US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer arrived in Somalia on Saturday for talks with the
president and prime minister in the first visit for several years
by a top US official.

