

Lawmakers in the Democratic Republic of Congo have warned of
dozens of crimes committed against civilians by new government
soldiers, in a report seen by AFP on Saturday.


The study into the eastern Nord-Kivu region by members of the
provincial assembly, which will be presented to the governor on
Wednesday, details summary executions, rapes, tortures and
kidnappings.


The crimes are blamed on the "mixed" army brigades of regular
army soldiers and former rebels led by deposed Congolese Tutsi
general Laurent Nkunda, who have been deployed in Nord-Kivu since
January.


The Kinshasa government hoped this strategy would provide a
peaceful solution to December's crisis following the presidential
elections.


But one of the report's authors said on condition of anonymity:
"Since then, there has been a reign of terror. There is killing
every day in Nord-Kivu."


The report, which is based on statements from victims, residents
and local authorities, said the Bravo brigade, led by one of
Nkunda's supporters, "spreads desolation across the whole area it
is supposed to be making secure".


In Rutshuru, it treated civilians as accomplices of the Rwandan
Hutu rebels (FDLR) and local Mai Mai militia who have been in the
region for years.


"February 19: In Nyakakoma, two people were burned alive, accused
by Bravo soldiers of complicity with the FDLR," the 29-page
report said.


"March 9: Assassination of about 20 civilians at Buramba, accused
of being accomplices of the FDLR and Mai Mai... decomposing
bodies are still being discovered."


An inquiry was launched into the Buramba massacre, but no arrests
were made.


In neighbouring Masisi, where Nkunda was based, soldiers from the
Charlie brigade are accused of similar crimes.


"Nkunda is wanted for war crimes (committed in 2004). Here,
people voted for peace (in 2006). They do not understand why
President (Joseph) Kabila has given Nord-Kivu on a plate to this
renegade," a local lawmaker told AFP.


The report urges Kinshasa to remove the mixed brigades from the
region and act to ensure attacks on civilians are ended.


A member of the Baraza group, comprised of the heads of all the
ethnic communities in the region, commented: "The government
promised us peace. We are still waiting.


"Again this morning, two people were killed in Goma. If this
continues, the civil war will start up again because the
population cannot take any more."

