

WBO supermiddleweight champion Joe Calzaghe insisted that his
debut at the Millennium Stadium here on Saturday night will be
the start of bigger and better things.


Clazaghe makes a record 20th defence of his title against former
reality TV star Peter Manfredo of the United States.


And the Welsh king said that after this fight, in front of a
sell-out 35,000 crowd, he will not be going back to fighting in
front of smaller crowds at smaller venues.


Calzaghe said: "I am not going to say this will be the last fight
in Cardiff but realistically it would not be at the CIA or the
ice rink. It would have to be back in this stadium.


"I took my chance against Jeff Lacy and showed the world what I
could do. Now I am fighting at a massive stadium which is where I
wanted to be years ago.    "I feel great and I am ready to do a
number on him (Manfredo). But talk is cheap. No matter who is in
your corner or how many are in the stadium, all that matters is
when the punching gloves are on."


The Welshman can join Larry Holmes and Bernard Hopkins if he
successfully defends his title for the 20th time. And with
unbeaten 12-stone Danish rival Mikkel Kessler being lined up for
a projected unification match, Calzaghe believes there are now
few indoor venues in Britain capable of containing his
popularity.


Calzaghe will start as a massive favourite to overcome
'Contender' star Manfredo, who has fought in nowhere near the
same class.


But the 26-year-old from Providence has scored impressive
victories over Scott Pemberton and Joe Spina in his last two
fights and insists he is brimming with confidence ahead of his
big chance.


Manfredo said: "Joe Calzaghe has got a lot of class and he knows
I am not going to back up," insisted Manfredo. "He knows I have
come to take his title and he won't be taking me lightly.


"I have trained extremely hard with a lot of lefties and this has
got the makings of a great Arturo Gatti versus Mickey Ward type
of fight. Neither of us will back up and that is what people want
to see."

