

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is expected to unveil what he has
described as "good news" on Iran's nuclear programme on Monday
amid international calls for a suspension of uranium enrichment.


April 9 is Iran's national nuclear technology day and marks the
first anniversary of its enrichment of uranium to the level
needed to produce fuel for civil reactors.


Ahmadinejad will visit Iran's enrichment facility in the central
city of Natanz to mark the anniversary.


"Ceremonies marking the national day of nuclear technology will
be organised in the presence of President (Mahmoud) Ahmadinejad
in Natanz," said a statement from Iran's atomic energy
organisation.


Ahmadinejad has repeatedly promised that he is preparing a major
announcement on Iran's nuclear programme and his presence at the
enrichment plant for the anniversary has fuelled speculation that
it will be the venue.


The semi-official Fars news agency speculated that the president
would confirm the belated launch of a cascade of 3,000
centrifuges at the plant.


"In February they were supposed to announce the installation and
launch of 3,000 centrifuges, but it did not happen so it is
expected that the good news involves the installation and launch
of the centrifuges," the news agency said.


At low levels of 3.5 percent or so, uranium enrichment provides
the fuel for nuclear reactors, but at highly extended levels of
well over 90 percent it can also produce the fissile core of an
atomic bomb, the source of Western concerns about Iran's
intentions.


According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, there are at
least 1,000 centrifuges in Natanz at different stages of
installation.


Only around a third of them have yet been fed with uranium
hexafluoride gas feedstock.


Iran has vowed to gave 3,000 centrifuges up and running at the
facility by May 2007 despite repeated ultimatums from the UN
Security Council to suspend its efforts to master the nuclear
fuel cycle.


The Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed the ultimatums.


The second resolution tasked the European Union's top diplomat
Javier Solana with holding talks with Iran about the possibility
of renewed negotiations.


But Iran insists it will only enter talks without preconditions
and not, as the Security Council demands, following a prior
suspension of uranium enrichment.


Chief nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani reiterated on Thursday that
there could be no freeze on enrichment activities ahead of talks.


Washington has repeatedly refused to rule out military action if
diplomacy fails to secure a change of heart from Tehran.


Iran has retaliated against the UN sanctions by withholding
immediate notification of its plans to build or modify nuclear
facilities, saying notice would come only six months before
improved facilities are brought into service.

