

Cuba on Saturday slammed what it said was the US double standard
on terrorism after a US federal judge ordered the release of an
anti-Castro activist convicted in the deadly downing of a Cuban
jet.


"The court ruling is yet another confirmation of the George W.
Bush administration's double standard on its alleged war on
terror," the Cuban Communist Party newspaper Granma said.


The ruling by a federal judge in Texas, does not necessarily mean
former CIA operative Luis Posada Carriles, 79, will leave jail
immediately, since he could be arrested by US immigration
officials who have a deportation order for him. On Friday he was
ordered freed pending a hearing on immigration fraud charges.


The US judge ordered the Cuban-born Venezuelan national released
on a 350,000 dollars bail on condition that he remain confined to
his Miami home and submit to "electronic monitoring," according
to the text of the order by the federal court in El Paso, Texas.


Posada Carriles, a fierce opponent of communist Cuban leader
Fidel Castro, was accused of masterminding the downing of a Cuban
jet off Barbados in 1976 in which 73 people were killed. He was
detained in Venezuela in 1976 and convicted in the case, but fled
prison in 1985.


He was also sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a bomb
plot to assassinate Castro during an Ibero-American summit there
in 2000, but was pardoned by then outgoing president Mireya
Moscoso.


Posada Carriles was detained by US immigration officials in May
2005 for entering the United States illegally. He is currently
held in a federal prison in the southwestern state of New Mexico.


US officials refuse to release Posada Carriles to Venezuela or
Cuba, claiming he might be tortured. But they have also refused
to free him, calling him a threat to national security.


Havana and Caracas accuse Washington of harboring a known
terrorist.


US immigration authorities criticized the judge's release order,
and said that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials
would arrest Posada Carriles.


"We are disappointed with the ruling. We remind you there is an
immigration detainer pending against Mr Posada," the ICE
spokesman Michael Keegan told AFP.


"This detainer means Mr Posada will remain in federal custody
although he will be transferred from the custody of the US
marshals to that of" the ICE.


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles worked for
the CIA from 1965 to June 1976. He reportedly helped the US
government ferry supplies to the Contra rebels that waged a
bloody campaign to topple the socialist Sandinistas in Nicaragua
in the 1980s.

