

The 15 British sailors and marines who spent two weeks in Iranian
captivity have been given permission to sell their stories to the
media, it was announced Saturday.


In a highly unusual step, the Ministry of Defence said its ban on
serving personnel entering into financial agreements with media
organisations was being relaxed because of "exceptional"
circumstances.


A Ministry of Defence spokeswoman said: "In exceptional
circumstances such as the awarding of a Victoria Cross (the
forces' top valour award) or events such as those in recent days,
permission can be granted by commanding officers and the Ministry
of Defence.


"That's what has happened here."


She said there had been "considerable media interest" in buying
the groups' stories but could not confirm whether any deals had
yet been struck.


Newspapers would most like to secure the first interview with
Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, the only woman in the party and a
married mother-of-one.


She became the focus of human interest stories about the
situation and was singled out by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, who criticised Britain for sending a woman on active
service.


The 15 were dramatically freed by Ahmadinejad Wednesday and flew
back to Britain Thursday.


Despite television pictures of the group laughing and joking
during their time in Iran, they told a press conference Friday
after their return to Britain how they had been ill-treated by
their captors during.


But Iran claims that the allegations were made under official
pressure.


"The mistreatment of the sailors is a lie," said Ali Akbar
Javanfekr, top press spokesman for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


"The British authorities should know that they cannot keep hiding
the truth from the British people," he added.


"We envisioned that the 15 sailors would be subjected to pressure
by British security and intelligence forces. For that reason,
President Ahmadinejad asked Prime Minister Tony Blair not to put
pressure on the sailors for having told the truth, but (he) did
not hear this humanitarian appeal."


Javanfekr added that the British authorities were "seeking to
improve their situation and and diminish the pressure of public
opinion."


The party was captured in the northern Gulf on March 23. Iran
claims they were in Iranian waters, but Britain insists they were
in the Iraqi zone.

