

Chelsea just about stayed in touch with Manchester United at the
top of the English Premiership thanks to Saturday's 1-0 victory
over an under-strength Tottenham Hotspur at Stamford Bridge.


Portugal centre-half Ricardo Carvalho scored the vital goal with
a 35-yard blast in the 52nd minute.


Spurs manager Martin Jol rested strikers Dimitar Berbatov and
Robbie Keane plus midfielder Didier Zokora following their 2-1
UEFA Cup quarter-final first leg defeat in Seville on Thursday.


Yet Jose Mourinho's side looked sluggish and needed a goalkeeping
error from England's Paul Robinson to force the breakthrough
early in the second half.


Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson had claimed earlier that
Chelsea had been granted the gift of facing Tottenham just 48
hours after their clash in Spain, which undoubtedly took its toll
on Jol's young side.


As it was, the Blues did at least succeed in their aim of pushing
United for another week, and they did so while keeping their 19th
clean sheet of the season in the league.


The first half was a dull affair, with Chelsea only once managing
to extend Robinson when he saved well from Carvalho.


Besides that, only a deflected Frank Lampard free-kick gave the
Tottenham defence anything to think about.


The early stages of the second half did, however, suggest that
the contest was about to get interesting.


Referee Rob Styles failed to award a penalty in the 48th minute
when Chelsea captain John Terry was pushed by Pascal Chimbonda.


A minute later at the other end, Blues goalkeeper Petr Cech
needed to be alert to tip over Mido's close range header
following a flick-on by Hossam Ghaly from a Chimbonda cross.


But in the 51st minute Chelsea finally broke the deadlock when
Carvalho took a pass from Jon Obi Mikel, before advancing and
unleashing a low shot from 35 yards which flew past Robinson and
into the bottom left corner.


It was another moment to forget for the England goalkeeper, who
will claim he was left unsighted by his static defence.


Robinson did partially redeem himself soon after when he saved
well inside the six-yard box from Salomon Kalou. He then did well
to keep out a fierce drive from Didier Drogba after the Ivory
Coast striker made space to shoot in the 60th minute.


Eight minutes from time, a powerful header by substitute Berbatov
from a Steed Malbranque free-kick forced a fine save from Cech.


Another bright spot for Chelsea was the return to league action
for Joe Cole. The England midfielder played 14 minutes of his
side's Champions League quarter- final clash against Valencia on
Wednesday, and followed that up with five minutes against Spurs.


Tottenham pushed for an equaliser in the closing stages and
wasted a fine chance when Malbranque's overhead kick in stoppage
time went over the bar.


At the other end, Drogba would surely have made it 2-0 had it not
been for an excellent recovery and interception by Ricardo Rocha.


Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack, who came off the bench late
on, should then have scored but found his path blocked by the
impressive Michael Dawson.

