

Two French aid workers who went missing this week in Afghanistan
have been kidnapped by Taliban militants and taken to volatile
Helmand province, officials and a purported militant said
Saturday.


An Afghan colleague who was travelling with the French workers
may have been involved in the abduction, local police chief
Mohammad Daud Askaryar told AFP.


The nationals -- a man and a woman who were working for a French
aid agency -- were taken to southern Helmand province, a Taliban
stronghold where the rebels hold several districts, a provincial
governor said.


The governor and the police chief are the first officials to
confirm that the nationals, who went missing on Tuesday in the
southwestern province of Nimroz, had been kidnapped.


And purported Taliban spokesman, Yousuf Ahmadi said Saturday the
pair along with their Afghan colleagues were being held in a
"safe base" run by the rebels. He declined to disclose the
location.


"They're being kept in a safe Taliban base. They're in good
health," Ahmadi told AFP by phone from an undisclosed location.


"Our investigation to determine their links and affiliations
continue. The (Taliban) leadership council has not yet decided
their fate," the spokesman who often calls the media to claim
attacks on behalf of Taliban said.


"They're being treated like guests," he added.


The latest kidnapping comes less than three weeks after an
Italian journalist was freed after some two weeks in Taliban
captivity in Helmand.


"Our intelligence reports indicate that they've been kidnapped by
Taliban and we believe one or more of the Afghans travelling with
them were involved," said Askaryar, police commander of Nimroz
province, without providing further details.


"Our search operations which included house-to-house searches
didn't result in any success. I think they've been moved from the
area -- maybe to Helmand."


The aid workers from Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children)
were taken from Khash Rod district, an area on a highway that
links Nimroz to the main western city of Herat, said Ghulam
Dastgir Azad, provincial governor for Nimroz.


The French pair were wearing traditional Afghan clothes, which
were provided by their Afghan assistants, Askaryar said.


"Their Afghan colleagues we suspect were involved had provided
local dresses, a burqa for the woman and a turban for the man.
They left the (Nimroz) province in a very suspect manner and did
not inform police about their trip," Askaryar said.


He said their fourth Afghan colleague -- a translator -- had been
detained by police for questioning. He did not say when the
Afghan was detained.


The governor said a search operation by some 200 security
officials for the missing people in Khash Rod district had been
called off Saturday after the troops failed to locate the aid
workers.


Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo who was snatched on March 5 was
released under a controversial deal which saw five Taliban
prisoners including some high-profile figures free from Afghan
jails.


The deal which critics said would encourage more similar
kidnappings was ordered by President Hamid Karzai.


Since the freedom of Mastrogiacomo the Taliban have kidnapped --
and are still holding -- five Afghan medics. Mastrogiacomo's
translator, Ajmal Naqshbandi is also being held by the rebels.


The militants have demanded the release of two more Taliban in
exchange for his freedom.


Karzai however, said Friday to make no more hostage deals, saying
that the one he made last month to free the Italian journalist
was because the Italian government -- which has 1,800 troops in
Afghanistan -- could have collapsed.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
he said. "No more deals with no one and with no other country."

