

A chilly Augusta National was braced for another searing Tiger
Woods charge in the third round of the Masters on Saturday.


On each of the four occasions that Woods has won here, he has
made his big move on the third day shooting 65, 68, 66 and 65.
Six of his 14 rounds in the 60s at the Masters have come on the
Saturday.


After two "plodding" rounds of 73 and 74, the world No.1 was left
needing another charge to get back atop the leaderboard from
where he has won all 12 of his majors to date.


Woods was languishing back in a tie for 15th place five strokes
adrift of the joint halfway leaders Brett Wetterich, a Masters
rookie from the United States, and Tim Clark of South Africa who
finished runner-up to Phil Mickelson last year.


Local hope Vaughn Taylor was alone in second one stroke off the
pace with four golfers two back on level par - Jerry Kelly and
Zach Johnson of the United States, Vijay Singh of Fiji and
England's Justin Rose.


Singh, champion here in 2000, was the only player in the top
seven to have previously won a major.


With an icy blast sweeping over the hard, dried-out course as the
early third round starters set out, the 60 players who made 152
or better, the highest cut since 154 in 1982, were expecting a
hard day's struggle to stay within par.


Woods said he counted himself among that number.


"With the weather coming at the weekend, I'm right there in the
ballgame," he said.


"We're going to all have to grind, whether you're a rookie or
not, or a veteran, you're going to have your hands full this
weekend."


Going for his third major in a row after last year's British Open
and PGA titles, Woods will tee-off for the third straight day in
the company of England's Paul Casey whose 68 on Friday was the
joint-best of the tournament so far and brought him right back
into the picture after an opening 79.


He has plenty European company in Rose, along with Englishman
David Howell, Irishman Padraig Harrington and Welshman Bradley
Dredge who are all poised to strike on 145 alongside the twin
Australian challenge of Stuart Appleby and Geoff Ogilvy.

