

Bangladesh opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed on Saturday
attacked the military-backed government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months.


"The people are being pushed into uncertainty, it's not fair,"
the Awami League chief Hasina told BBC's Bengali Radio Service.


"We know reforms are necessary. But it shouldn't be an excuse
(for postponing elections)," said Hasina, whose party spearheaded
months of protests calling for electoral reforms that paralysed
the nation.


"My point is why do they need a year and a half?" she said by
telephone from the United States where she has said she is
visiting ailing family members.


Hasina made the comments after Bangladesh's deputy election
commissioner Shakhwat Hossain Thursday ruled out the possibility
of holding parliamentary elections before late 2008.


The new election monitoring team, named by a caretaker government
in February, said 18 months was the shortest time in which it
could prepare voter cards with digital photographs to prevent
electoral fraud -- a key opposition demand.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
the president imposed emergency rule, curtailing freedom of
speech, and cancelled polls slated for January following months
of political turmoil.


The new government has promised to crack down on corruption and
carry out sweeping political reforms before announcing an
election date.


"It's true we have demanded reforms. But the government should
have started the process by this time," said Hasina, who had
earlier demanded polls in June.


Under the government's anti-corruption drive, at least 45 top
figures from the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) and
Awami League have been detained in the crackdown.


Hasina, who was premier from 1996 to 2001, had accused Zia's
government of trying to rig the January polls by adding 14
million fake names to the voters' list.


On Saturday, she also called for an end to emergency rule.


"This government has done some good work. We've supported them,
but the country can't be run by a state of emergency for long.
Such a government can't stay for long and it doesn't bring good
results," she said.


Bangladesh has known long periods of military rule.


Hasina left Bangladesh for the United States last month. Her
departure came amid media speculation that she and her main
rival, the most recent prime minister, Khaleda Zia of the BNP,
could be sent into exile by the government.


Earlier this week, the United States also called on Bangladesh to
set a date for elections.

