

A protest painting by Xu Beihong sold at auction Saturday for 72
million Hong Kong dollars (9.2 million US dollars), setting yet
another record for Chinese painting.


Auctioneers Sotheby's had expected the 1939 painting of an anti-
Japanese street play, "Put Down Your Whip," to fetch at least 30
million Hong Kong dollars.


It eventually went to an anonymous phone bidder for a hammer
price of 64 million dollars, plus eight million dollars
commission for the auctioneers.


"It's a painting of rare and important historical value," said
Sotheby's head of Chinese paintings CK Cheung after the sale.
"It's important because it exemplifies Xu's technique -- which is
to have combined Chinese and Western influences," he said.


Another painting by Xu, "Slave and Lion" set the previous record
of 53.9 million dollars when it went under the hammer at
Christie's here in November.


The sale is the latest record to be set in Hong Kong since
Sotheby's and its rival auction house Christie's set up shop here
several years ago to cash in on the growing market for Asian art.


Both houses hold two sales each year and interest grows with each
auction. While most bidders still come from the traditional art-
buying markets in the United States and Europe, Asian buyers,
especially newly wealthy Chinese, are beginning to make an
impact.


The patriotic Xu, who was renowned for his horse paintings, was
inspired to paint "Put Down Your Whip" after watching a street
play in Singapore about a father and his daughter in wartime
exile due to the Japanese invasion.


The life-size female character in the painting was Xu's actress
friend Wang Ying.


Cheung said the painting was a historical document in itself as
it captures a key moment in the life of the artist, who was a
political activist involved with the resistance against the
Japanese occupation of China.


"The lady is a friend of Xu's whom he met while in Singapore
while he was drumming up support for the resistance against the
Japanese," Cheung said.


Xu's work is the highlight of the auction house's Chinese Art
sale, offering 180 lots of paintings, inks and sculptures from
several artistic periods.


Sotheby's said the picture had been exhibited several times when
Xu was still alive, but it was last seen in public in 1954 -- a
year after Xu died -- since when it has been passed between
collectors.


Some art historians have criticised the recent explosion in the
prices for Asian art, which 10 years ago was struggling to
attract any interest. Some have criticised over-exuberant first-
time Asian buyers for artificially sending prices sky-high.


Sotheby's Asia chairman Patti Wong, however, said the Xu piece
would have sold well in any market.


"Given the rarity of Xu's works, the historical element of this
piece, the quality and the fact that he is considered a master,
this piece would always have sold this high," Wong said.

