

Tiger Woods got his third round off to a steady par start in the
third round of the Masters on Saturday with  chilly Augusta
National once again proving to be a handful.


On each of the four occasions that Woods has won here, he has
made his big move on the third day shooting 65, 68, 66 and 65.
Six of his 14 rounds in the 60s at the Masters have come on the
Saturday.


After two "plodding" rounds of 73 and 74, the world No.1 was left
needing another charge to get back atop the leaderboard from
where he has won all 12 of his majors to date.


Woods was languishing back in a tie for 15th place five strokes
adrift of the joint halfway leaders Brett Wetterich, a Masters
rookie from the United States, and Tim Clark of South Africa who
finished runner-up to Phil Mickelson last year.


The 31-year-old American hit a wayward second right of the first
green, but a deft chip and a four-foot putt saw him safely open
with a par, the same as playing partner Paul Casey.


He then parred the par-five second which Casey birdied to get to
two over, four behind the leaders who had yet to start.


Ahead of him defending champion Mickelson, who had looked in
danger of missing the cut at one stage on Friday before coming in
seven adrift of the lead, also looked to mount a charge with a
birdie-four at the second.


But he gave that back three holes later with a bogey five.


Local hope Vaughn Taylor was alone in second one stroke off the
pace with four golfers two back on level par - Jerry Kelly and
Zach Johnson of the United States, Vijay Singh of Fiji and
England's Justin Rose.


Singh, champion here in 2000, was the only player in the top
seven to have previously won a major.


With an icy blast sweeping over the hard, dried-out course as the
early third round starters set out, the 60 players who made 152
or better, the highest cut since 154 in 1982, were expecting a
hard day's struggle to stay within par.


That proved to be the case with the first eight golfers out all
failing to make par before South Africa's Retief Goosen finally
obliged.


Woods said he was ready for a gruelling day.


"With the weather coming at the weekend, I'm right there in the
ballgame," he said.


"We're going to all have to grind, whether you're a rookie or
not, or a veteran, you're going to have your hands full this
weekend."


Going for his third major in a row after last year's British Open
and PGA titles, Woods teed-off for the third straight day in the
company of England's Casey whose 68 on Friday was the joint-best
of the tournament so far and brought him right back into the
picture after an opening 79.


He has plenty European company in Rose, along with Englishman
David Howell, Irishman Padraig Harrington and Welshman Bradley
Dredge who are all poised to strike on 145 alongside the twin
Australian challenge of Stuart Appleby and Geoff Ogilvy.


Early casualties in the third round as a swirling wind added to
the problems out on the course were two-times former winner Jose
Maria Olazabal of Spain who shed four strokes in the first five
holes and top Australian hope Adam Scott who went out in four-
over 40 and was out of it at 13-over through 16 holes.


With no let-up forecast in the testing conditions, a score around
level-par looked like having a good chance of leading the field
after three rounds

