

Hundreds of Indian fans, who dreamt of seeing India and star
batsman Sachin Tendulkar take on South Africa here on Saturday,
were left cursing their luck at the National Stadium.


If things had gone to plan, India would have qualified from the
first round to take their place in what was expected to be a
highly-charged clash with Graeme Smith's side.


However, seeing Asian neighbours Bangladesh make up the fixture
instead only sent them into a deeper despair.


"We tried our level best to get a refund on our tickets and our
hotel bookings cancelled, but we failed," said Nilesh Kumar, who
has come from Bradford, northern England to watch the World Cup.


"In the end we decided to spend a few hundred dollars more and
have the luxury of sightseeing in Antigua and Guyana, but we
wanted to see India and Tendulkar."


India were dumped out in the first round of the World Cup
following their upset defeat against Bangladesh. They also lost
to Sri Lanka and their only win came against minnows Bermuda.


India's Australian coach Greg Chappell resigned from his post as
billions of Indian fans were left disappointed and incensed over
their team's abject exit.


Scores of fans cancelled flights from various Indian cities to
Guyana but still lost thousands of dollars over their
accommodation with hotels charging one hundred percent in case of
a no-show.


Munjal Raumchand, whose family originates from Gujrat, came from
Florida in the United States for the tournament, but he described
his visit as "futile".


"It is like having a dream shattered," said Raumchand.


"I took time off from my job and bought tickets well in advance
but the Indian team's ouster has made my visit boring. It's like
throwing my money in the bin."


World Cup organisers, already reeling from their poorly-attended
matches, tried to fill the 15,000-capacity stadium on Saturday
with school children - but even they came in anticipation of
watching the Indian stars.


"We were anxiously waiting to see India play, but instead we are
here to watch the Bangldesh team and we don't know much about
them," said Devan Jagunandan, who studies at the local IP School.


However, India's loss is Bangladesh's gain with many of their
fans here in numbers.


"We have extended our stay in the Caribbean because we have been
following Bangladesh since the first round," said Shamshul
Abedin, who hails from Chittagong in Bangladesh.


"You play bad and you lose and India and Pakistan are out because
they played badly. Bangladesh played well in the first round and
they are here."


Pakistan were also eliminated after the first round after they
suffered an upset three-wicket defeat against debutants Ireland
and lost to the West Indies by 54 runs.


Their early exit also left hundreds of Guyanese Muslims high and
dry.


Many who had expected to see Pakistan play three matches here
ripped up their tickets in frustration.

