

US aircraft on Saturday targeted suspected militiamen armed with
rocket- propelled grenades during a second day of clashes between
gunmen and US-backed Iraqi forces in a troubled Shiite city.


Doctor Hamid Gaati said four dead and 25 wounded had been
admitted to hospital since Iraqi troops launched the operation in
Diwaniyah on Friday but voiced fear that there were other
casualties ambulances were unable to reach.


The US military said its aircraft carried out a strike against
suspected militiamen after receiving a tip-off from residents in
the central city that has been plagued by militia clashes for
months.


"Iraqi army and coalition forces as part of Operation Black Eagle
used a strategic air strike to defend against illegally armed
militia men using shoulder-fired rocket propelled grenades," the
US forces said.


An Iraqi army source said that US planes attacked and hit houses
where suspects were holed up in the city's Al-Jumhuriyah
district, "destroying two of them." There was no immediate word
on casualties, he added.


The military said air support had been called in by the Iraqi
army after "positive identification of the militiamen."


Diwaniyah remained under curfew for a second day and hospitals
were calling in doctors to report for duty, while the city's
communication lines were also cut, apparently by authorities,
witnesses and the Iraqi source added.


The Iraqi source said clashes were also pitting Iraqi and US
forces against armed men in Diwaniyah's Salim Street and southern
areas of the city including the Nahda and Wahda districts.


Major Eric Verzola said there had been no other air strikes by
coalition forces apart from the initial strike by a fixed-wing
aircraft.


US and Iraqi forces moved into Diwaniyah on Friday, arresting
nearly 30 militants and killing three fighters as part of the
crackdown aimed at reining in Shiite militiamen who often also
clash among themselves.


The military said the operation was intended to disrupt militia
activity and return control to the government.


Over the past year, Diwaniyah has seen repeated clashes between
the security forces and Shiite militias. Last August, nearly two
dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of militiamen were killed.


The city is riven with bitter political rivalry as militiamen
loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr clash with those linked
to the Supreme Council of Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), a
formerly Iran-based Shiite group.


In Baghdad, the US military announced that two more of its
soldiers had been killed on Friday, taking its losses so far this
month to 17.


One of the soldiers was killed when a "shaped charge" detonated
in an eastern part of capital.


Such devices have been blamed for the deaths of at least 170 US
service personnel since May 2004. The white-hot slug of molten
metal they blast out when they explode can penetrate the armoured
skins of troop carriers.


The military said materials used to make the projectiles were
discovered in Diwaniyah -- devices that the US military alleges
are supplied to Iraq's Shiite militias by Iranian regime
elements.

