

Malaysian ministers have issued fresh attacks on bloggers,
threatening to take away their rights and accusing them of trying
to overthrow the government, according to reports.


The assaults come amidst an unprecedented defamation suit against
two bloggers and outrage from rights groups after a minister
during the week suggested Malaysian bloggers may be forced to
identify themselves.


Information Minister Zainuddin Maidin said bloggers should not be
exempt from the same controls as the mainstream media, and
accused them of using lies to overthrow the government, the state
Bernama news agency reported.


"This is very dangerous as they are writing and taking steps to
gain power," he was quoted as saying late Friday from Singapore.


Zainuddin also supported a proposal by deputy communications
minister Shaziman Abu Mansor, who on Wednesday suggested bloggers
be registered.


Ministers, including Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, have
in recent months launched attacks on bloggers and Internet users,
accusing them of spreading lies about the government.


Abdullah has also supported a controversial lawsuit against
prominent bloggers Jeff Ooi and Ahirudin Attan by the government-
linked New Straits Times Press newspaper group for posts
criticising the daily and the government.


In a report Saturday, communications minister Lim Keng Yaik
threatened action against bloggers if they were irresponsible.


"We are not interfering with their rights. But if they behave
irresponsibly, we will take away their rights," Lim was quoted as
saying in the New Straits Times. "The way they blog, with all
that filth inside, do you think they are responsible?"


Rights groups have condemned all the attacks, arguing blogs offer
a crucial alternative to the tightly-controlled mainstream media.


Paris-based watchdog Reporters Without Borders late Friday said
the proposal to register bloggers was more evidence of Malaysia's
desire to control online information.


"The obligatory registering of blogs is a measure that so far has
only been adopted by countries such as China that violate
Internet users' rights," it said in a statement.

