

Mohammad Ashraful hit a robust half-century as Bangladesh
survived Andre Nel's maiden five-wicket haul to post a
competitive 251-8 against South Africa in a World Cup Super
Eights match here on Saturday.


Bangladesh were struggling at 84-4 following fast bowler Nel's
early triple- strike before middle-order batsmen Ashraful (87)
and Aftab Ahmed (35) steadied the innings with a 76-run stand for
the fifth wicket.


It was Bangladesh's best batting performance since successfully
chasing a 192-run target against former champions India in their
opening group match in Trinidad last month.


Aftab was the first to go for big shots, smashing two sixes in an
over from Justin Kemp. This was the beginning of the onslaught as
Ashraful then improvised brilliantly to help his team post a
respectable total.


Ashraful completed his 11th half-century with an attacking shot,
lofting fast bowler Makhaya Ntini for a straight four and then
hitting two more boundaries in the same over.


Ashraful struck 12 four in his 83-ball knock, his best since
scoring 94 against England at Trent Bridge in 2005.


Nel had ended Bangladesh's early flourish with three quick
wickets before Ashraful propped up the innings with a sensible
knock.


The fast bowler, dropped after going wicketless in his team's
opening game against the Netherlands, looked in fine nick as he
dismissed openers Javed Omar and Tamim Iqbal, and skipper Habibul
Bashar in his disciplined opening spell.


Bangladesh were off to a solid start after being put in to bat,
but Nel restored the balance with three wickets in four overs to
eventually finish with 5-45.


Nel broke a 42-run stand for the opening wicket when he removed
Omar, who cut straight into the safe hands of skipper Graeme
Smith at point after contributing 17.


The South African fast bowler reduced Bangladesh to 69-3 when he
dismissed Bashar and left-handed opener Iqbal in the space of 10
runs.


Bashar offered a return catch after making five, while left-
handed opener Iqbal's attractive cameo ended when he was caught
behind while attempting to pull.


Teenager Iqbal often stepped into the realm of adventure, hitting
Ntini for a couple of boundaries early in his innings before
falling playing one shot too many. He struck six fours in his
59-ball 38.


Saqibul Hasan (nine) also fell playing strokes, caught at point
by Smith off Jacques Kallis to leave his team struggling at 84-4
in the 24th over.

