

Greenpeace activists who hoped to raise opposition in Japan to
whaling sailed away Saturday after a 12-day mission in which they
were unable to hold public events on their ship.


The Dutch-flagged "Esperanza" left for maintenance in Busan,
South Korea after 16 months at sea which included trailing
Japan's fleet on its controversial whaling hunt in the Antarctic
Ocean.


The Esperanza reached the Tokyo area on March 27 but it took five
days to anchor after the agent handling its arrival paperwork
backed out under pressure from the sailors union.


The ship finally docked Friday after port authorities in
Yokohama, just south of Tokyo, gave a berth that did not allow
any public events, saying there was no other space.


Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara Holden said the mission had to be
measured "by the reality of Japan."


"We are not giving up the campaign. We have a very broad campaign
that has a number of different elements," she said by telephone
from aboard the Esperanza as it left.


"People in countries where the debate on whaling is ongoing find
it very difficult to understand how limited the debate is in
Japan," she said. "We didn't manage to open our boat to the
public, but the fact that we were able to come to Tokyo is
significant."


Japan says whaling is part of its culture. It hunts about 1,000
whales a year using a loophole in a 1986 global moratorium that
allows killing the giant mammals for research.


"We want to make sure the moratorium is maintained and bring an
end to whaling in the Southern Ocean and we won't stop until
that," Holden said.


Japan has branded environmentalists that have pursued its whaling
ships as "terrorists."


Earlier this year, activists of the Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society, a militant splinter group of Greenpeace, threw acid on
the whalers' mother ship, the Nisshin Maru.


A fire later broke out on the ship, leaving one crewman dead.


While both sides said the blaze was unconnected to the
environmentalists' protests, the incident forced Japan to cut
short its Antarctic hunt after killing little more than half the
intended catch.

