

The Western Stormers ran in three tries to one to run out
convincing and fully- deserved 30-8 winners over the Lions in a
Super 14 match here Saturday.


The Stormers from Cape Town led 13-3 at the break, with the
Johannesburg team's points coming via the boot of captain Andre
Pretorius.


With only three games remaining the Lions are now virtually out
of the running to reach the last four for a place in the semi-
finals of the southern hemisphere inter-provincial rugby union
championship.


They occupy ninth place in the points table, while the Stormers
moved up to 11th thanks to their fourth victory of the season.


The Lions, having beaten three New Zealand teams and won back to
back games in Australia this season, were coming off a defeat to
the Brumbies at Ellis Park.


The men from Cape Town, who've had an up-and-down season which at
one stage saw their director of rugby Nick Mallett flying to New
Zealand to investigate the team's problems, were by far the
superior outfit and dominated most departments on their home
ground.


But more than anything else, it was their three-quarter division
of Springboks De Wet Barry and Jean de Villiers that caused most
of the problems for the visitors from the highveld.


Had a few more passes gone to hand and had the likes of lock
Andries Bekker and flank Schalk Burger not been denied tries by
the television match official, the score would have been a whole
worse for the Lions.


At the final hooter, the Stormers had, however, run in tries to
flyhalf Peter Grant, Barry and replacement back Naas Olivier.


Barry set up a good early chance for the home side when he sliced
through the Lions midfield, but a poor pass to Corne Uys out wide
cost the home side a certain try, but two penalties to Grant to
the one of Pretorius ensured the Stormers enjoyed a 6-3 lead with
the first half coming to a close.


Grant, however sealed a wonderful first period with a try after
stepping off his right foot to edge past Lions flanker Ernst
Joubert, the conversion making it 13-3 at the break.


Barry stretched his team's lead almost straight after the restart
when he slipped between Pretorius and Doppies la Grange to score
under the uprights for a 20-3 lead, but that advantage was soon
reduced to just 12 points when Lions centre Jaque Fourie scored
in the left-hand corner.


A further Grant penalty to a last-minute try by Olivier sealed a
good day's work for the Capetonians.

