

A top US envoy to Somalia pledged Saturday to help stabilise the
battered country, holding a rare high-level meeting with its
leaders as insurgents dug in against Ethiopian forces in the
capital.


US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer, the most senior US official to visit Somalia since 1994,
said she wanted to highlight the suffering in the country after
some of the worst fighting in its history.


"I'm here to set international attention to the challenges people
are facing, particularly the efforts to end fighting in Mogadishu
... and humanitarian crises as the result of the fighting," she
said.


Ethiopian forces with Washington's backing helped Somalia oust
Islamist militia allegedly linked to the Al-Qaeda network from
Mogadishu three months ago. Remnants of Islamist forces have
since mounted fresh attacks, demanding the withdrawal of the
Ethiopians and African Union peacekeepers.


Hundreds of people have been killed and tens of thousands forced
to flee.


Frazer said the United States was "moving forward" with a 40
million dollar (30 million euro) aid package for Somalia and had
asked Congress to provide a further 60 million dollars, according
to a US State Department statement released in Washington.


"This assistance will be used to support development and security
needs, to assist in the deployment of the African Union Mission
in Somalia stabilization force, and to provide humanitarian
assistance," it said.


Speaking after talks with President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and
Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi, Frazer called for more support
for the African Union peacekeepers in Somalia, currently
comprising only some 1,200 Ugandan soldiers.


Her delegation "emphasised the need to assist the African Union
mission ... to help stabilise Mogadishu and Somalia," she said.


Insurgents were strengthening their positions in the capital
meanwhile, piling up heaps of sand with bulldozers to block
streets and digging trenches.


"We have to make trenches everywhere in this city to show that we
are solid and have confidence in winning this war against the
Ethiopian invasion," a young fighter who refused to be named told
AFP near the football stadium where Ethiopian troops are based.


"They are using tanks and other heavy weapons so we have to dig
deep holes to prevent tanks," said Mohamed Dhuhul Moalim, another
fighter armed with an AK47 rifle.


"We have no confidence in this ceasefire agreement (that followed
the ousting of the Islamists). I think this fighting will
continue unless Ethiopians leave our country."


Somalia has been torn apart by warlords and other factions since
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was driven from power in 1991. The
transitional government created in 2004 has failed to impose
control on the country.


Foreign Minister Ismail Mohamed Hurre said in remarks published
on Saturday that a reconciliation conference due to have been
held later this month has been postponed until May "until certain
material conditions can be met."


He told the Saudi-owned Arabic-language daily Asharq Al-Awsat
there was "no question of any involvement of or participation by
the Islamic courts," the powerful bodies which oppose the
government, in the conference.


But he added that "when we arrive at a constitutional phase, they
can found a political party."


Somalia needs around 42.2 million dollars to organise the
reconciliation conference, but some potential donors have made
aid conditional on moderate Islamists also being invited.


"If some people insist that the Islamic courts take part in
negotiations, that would mean the involvement of former warlords
in a solution," Hurre said.

