

Boxing prospect Amir Khan has revealed that English Premiership
team Bolton Wanderers have been helping prepare for his 12th
professional fight.


Khan takes on Steffy Bull at the Millennium Stadium here on the
Joe Calzaghe- Peter Manfredo undercard, looking to maintain his
perfect record.


The 20-year-old's fight will be shown on free-to-air US cable
television giants Home Box Office.


And Khan has revealed how the extensive support of Sam
Allardyce's Premiership side will enable him to achieve his dream
of world domination.


"Bolton have great facilities in terms of health and fitness and
I even go to their physio if I have any injuries," he said.


"They have been a brilliant help for me. I have lunch with the
players and I can even tell the people there just what kind of
food I need and they prepare it for me. They really do look after
me."


Khan can expect a sterner test from veteran Bull than he had in
his last fight, which lasted all of 55 seconds before he finished
off the supposedly durable Frenchman Mohammed Medjadji.


And the American public would certainly appreciate a more
substantial sight of the Olympic silver medallist, with HBO
senior vice-president Kery Davies predicting big things.


Davis said: "We thought he was the most exciting fighter at the
Games and a big part of us coming over here is the ability to
showcase Amir's first fight back to the United States.


"I think he has the ability and charisma to be something very
special in boxing. There are a lot more international fighters
competing at the elite level and I am sure Amir is going to be
another."


Enzo Maccarinelli will also look to push towards bigger tests
ahead when he makes the second defence of his WBO cruiserweight
title against New Jersey's former bare-knuckle brawler Bobby
Gunn.


The big-hitting Swansea man admits he has been frustrated by his
failure to land big fights against the likes of Johnny Nelson,
David Haye and Vincenzo Cantatore.


Maccarinelli said: "This fight is all about taking out my
frustrations on Bobby Gunn. I definitely will not be complacent
because that is not allowed in the Enzo Calzaghe gym.


"I have had a good year despite the Nelson fight falling through
twice, and signing for the Haye fight which never happened. I am
ready for this fight, and just hope bigger fights can come soon."

