

England's Paul Collingwood believes his team are on the brink of
a "perfect" game even though they've yet to beat a Test nation at
the World Cup.


Defeat against world champions Australia at the Sir Vivian
Richards Stadium here Sunday would leave England needing to win
their remaining Super Eights games against Bangladesh, South
Africa and the West Indies and hope results elsewhere went their
way if they were to reach the semi-finals.


But all-rounder Collingwood, the star of England's shock 2-0 win
against hosts Australia in the finals of February's CB series,
said the team's recent experience against their oldest foes would
give them a boost after the disappointment of Wednesday's
nailbiting two-run defeat by Sri Lanka.


"We can take a lot of confidence from the last few times we've
played against them," said Collingwood, who scored a match-
winning 120 not out in the first final against Australia in
Melbourne before making 70 in the second final in Sydney.


"Obviously, we'd have loved to have won that game the other day
(against Sri Lanka), but it showed we bat a long way down."


Australia have won all five of their games in the Caribbean as
they aim for an unprecedented third straight World Cup title.


However, Collingwood said: "We've got a lot of belief. We are
excited to go out there and put the Aussies under pressure.


"Our performances now, we are not that far away. I think we are
gradually getting closer to a perfect game.


"We just need to kick on as a batting unit and get those big
scores like we did against Australia, get those hundreds and that
changes the scores from 260s and 270s to a real match-winning
300. That's what you need to do against these better sides."


He added: "This will be the ultimate buzz. To play them in the
World Cup, in a must-win game, this is what cricket is all
about."


England captain Michael Vaughan and Ed Joyce have failed to
provide a solid platform at the top of the innings.


And that has led to speculation that Andrew Strauss could replace
fellow Middlesex left-hander Joyce against Australia.


"That decision will be made later on I would have thought," said
Collingwood.


"Andrew Strauss has done fantastically well since he hasn't been
in the side. He's supported the rest of the boys superbly but the
thing is he has tried to develop his game as well."


Strauss is no more known for his power hitting than Vaughan or
Joyce but Collingwood said: "He has managed to get a bit of a
bigger bat so he says he is hitting the ball a little bit harder,
and a little bit further."

