

India's cricket chiefs on Saturday introduced performance-linked
payments to the national team, saying wins will earn them more
money but defeats will hurt the pockets.


The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) also scrapped
gradation in the annual contracts for players following the
team's first round exit from the ongoing World Cup in the
Caribbean.


"There will be no A, B, or C grades in contracts as it was till
now. All players will have the same grades," BCCI treasurer N.
Srinivasan told reporters at the end of a two-day review of the
World Cup debacle. Winning a series will be rewarded with
bonuses."


Srinivasan, however, did not reveal what the new fees for
international matches will be. "The parameters have yet to be
finalised," he said.


Indian cricketers were previously paid 3,400 dollars for a one-
day international and 4,500 dollars for Test matches, in addition
to annual contracts ranging from 110,000 dollars to 45,000
dollars.


Players will also not be allowed to endorse more than three
sponsors, a move that had been recommended by a group of former
captains on Friday.


"There was a unanimous view by the ex-captains that some cap
should be present, even while they were not against players
earning money," said Srinivasan.


Indian players are much sought after by companies for endorsing
their products in a country where cricket is the most popular
sport.


Superstar Sachin Tendulkar, widely regarded as one of the world's
richest cricketers, reportedly has sponsorships worth 400 million
dollars.


The system of having five honorary selectors will also be
abolished and they will be replaced by full-time paid selectors
drawn from the vast pool of former players, said Srinivasan.


The domestic system will also be made stronger with the
international calendar being adjusted so that star players play
six to eight weeks of domestic matches every year.


The captains' recommendation that sporting pitches be prepared
around the country so that batsmen do not struggle when
confronted by fast wickets abroad was also accepted.


The second-string 'A' teams will tour Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa and the West Indies on a regular basis so that
younger players get a chance to play on good wickets before being
drafted into the national side.

