

Fifteen British sailors and marines released after nearly two
weeks in Iranian custody were praised Saturday for their conduct,
but Tehran called on London to now make its own goodwill gesture.


The detainees "behaved both honourably and rationally" in the
face of "grotesque treatment", The Guardian newpaper said,
although Iran denied ill-treating the mariners, saying they made
such claims under pressure from their superiors.


"The mistreatment of the sailors is a lie," said Ali Akbar
Javanfekr, a top press spokesman for President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad.


"We envisioned that the 15 sailors would be subjected to pressure
by British security and intelligence forces.


"For that reason, President Ahmadinejad asked Prime Minister Tony
Blair not to put pressure on the sailors for having told the
truth, but (he) did not hear this humanitarian appeal."


In their first public statement, the group on Friday told how
they were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as part of
"psychological" intimidation during their detention.


Royal Marine Joe Tindell, 21, told how, blindfolded and hands
bound, they at one point thought they were about to be executed
and that he believed one of them had had his throat cut.


The eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines were seized
as they carried out what they said were routine anti-smuggling
operations near the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides Iraq and
Iran on March 23.


Tehran alleged they had illegally entered Iranian waters --
claims the Britons vehemently denied Friday, despite apparently
admitting doing so during their detention in Iran.


Meanwhile, the Vatican said Pope Benedict XVI wrote to Iran's
spiritual leader but did not confirm a report in The Guardian
that the letter was sent hours before Wednesday's announcement of
the group's release.


According to the newspaper, the pontiff urged Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei to do all he could to ensure their return home for
Easter in what would be taken as a "significant religious gesture
of goodwill from the Iranian people".


Ahmadinejad said Wednesday he was releasing the 15 as a "gift" to
the British people.


The 14 men and one woman returned to Britain on Thursday and have
since been debriefed and medically asssessed.


As they began two weeks' compassionate leave with their families,
Tehran's ambassador to London said in an interview published
Saturday that Britain should respond in kind to his country's
actions.


Rasoul Movahedian told the Financial Times that Tehran wanted
London's help in releasing five Iranians held in Iraq by US
forces and on easing international fears about its controversial
nuclear programme.


"We played our part and we showed our good will," he told the
business daily. "Now it is up to the British government to
proceed in a positive way."


He denied Ahmadinejad's announcement was linked to the case of
the Iranians detained in Iraq or the release Monday in Baghdad of
an Iranian diplomat kidnapped at gunpoint in Iraq in February.


Blair has also insisted there were no "side" deals done to secure
the release of the 15 but said diplomatic negotiations had
created new lines of communication between Britain and Iran.


Iran wanted to capitalise on this new dialogue to help "defuse
tensions in the region," Mohavedian said.


Meanwhile, a British naval inquiry has been set up to establish
how the 15 naval personnel came to be detained amid widespread
praise in the media for not fighting back against the Iranians'
superior firepower.


Several newspapers assessed that had they done so, they could
have sparked an accidental conflict.

