

Two birdies on the front nine saw Tiger Woods move ominously up
the leaderboard in the third round of the Masters on Saturday
with chilly Augusta National once again proving to be more than a
handful.


Woods, looking to make it three majors in a row and 13 for his
career, struck at the third and then sunk a confident-looking
18-foot putt on the eighth to leave him two strokes off the lead
going into the back nine.


On each of the four occasions that Woods has won here, he has
made his big move on the third day, shooting 65, 68, 66 and 65.
Six of his 14 rounds in the 60s at the Masters have come on the
Saturday.


After two "plodding" rounds of 73 and 74, the world No.1 was left
needing another charge to get back atop the leaderboard from
where he has won all 12 of his majors to date.


Woods was languishing back in a tie for 15th place - five strokes
adrift of the joint halfway leaders Brett Wetterich, a Masters
rookie from the United States, and Tim Clark, a South African who
finished runner-up to Phil Mickelson last year.


Ahead of him, defending champion Mickelson, who had looked in
danger of missing the cut at one stage on Friday before coming in
seven adrift of the lead, also tried to mount a charge with a
birdie-four at the second.


He gave that back three holes later with a bogey five and
suffered another bogey at 12 before sinking a six-footer for the
first birdie of the day at the 14th hole, taking him to five-over
for the tournament.


Leading the way was Australian Stuart Appleby, who had three
birdies in a row from the second to get to two-under par, moving
swiftly past halfway leaders Wetterich and Clark, who joined the
ranks of players who shed strokes over the opening holes.


Appleby though fell back to one over with a bogey at the seventh
but he remained the only player under par.


Clark bogeyed the two first holes to fall back to level par and
Wetterich tumbled off the leaderboard with a bogey at the second
and a triple bogey at the third.


Americans Luke Glover, Zach Johnson, and Vaughn Taylor were level
with Clark on even par as they played the front nine.


Vijay Singh, the champion here in 2000 and the only player in the
top seven at the halfway stage to have previously won a major was
at one over, level with Woods after dropping a stroke at the
first.


With an icy blast sweeping over the hard, dried-out course as the
early third- round starters set out, the 60 players who made 152
or better, the highest cut since 154 in 1982, were expecting a
hard day's struggle to stay within par.


That proved to be the case, with the first eight golfers out all
failing to make par before South Africa's Retief Goosen finally
obliged.


Woods said he was ready for a gruelling day.


"With the weather coming at the weekend, I'm right there in the
ballgame," he said.


"We're going to all have to grind, whether you're a rookie or
not, or a veteran, you're going to have your hands full this
weekend."


The European challenge was being maintained by England's David
Howell, who remained at one over after five straight pars and
countryman Paul Casey who moved to two over with two birdies and
a bogey to reach the turn in 35.


Fist round co-leader Justin Rose fell away with bogeys at the
first and second as did Irishman Padraig Harrington, who fell to
three over through six holes.


Early casualties in the third round as a swirling wind added to
the problems out on the course were two-time former winner Jose
Maria Olazabal of Spain, who shed four strokes in the first five
holes, and top Australian hope Adam Scott, who carded a 76 to
stand at nine over.


The only player to come in with a sub-par round was Goosen, whose
two-under 70 left him at six-under and in with a chance on
Sunday.


With no let-up forecast in the testing conditions, a score around
level par looked likely to lead the field after three rounds.

