

US aircraft on Saturday blasted suspected militiamen armed with
rocket-propelled grenades during a second day of clashes between
gunmen and US-backed Iraqi forces in Diwaniyah, south of Baghdad.


Doctor Hamid Gaati said four bodies and 25 wounded people had
been admitted to hospital since Iraqi troops launched the
operation on Friday but added that he feared ambulances could not
pick up other casualties.


Earlier on Saturday, the US military said it carried out an air
strike on what it said were militiamen after receiving a tip from
residents in the Shiite city that has been plagued by militia
clashes for months.


"Iraqi army and coalition forces as part of Operation Black Eagle
used a strategic air strike to defend against illegally armed
militia men using shoulder-fired rocket propelled grenades," the
US forces said in a statement.


An Iraqi army source said that US planes attacked and hit houses
where suspects were holed up in the city's Al-Jhumuriyah
district, "destroying two of them." There was no immediate
information of casualties, he added.


The military said air support had been called in by the Iraqi
army after "positive identification of the militiamen."


Diwaniyah remained under curfew for a second day and hospitals
were calling in doctors to report for duty, while the city's
communication lines were also cut, apparently by authorities,
witnesses and the Iraqi source added.


The Iraqi source said clashes were also pitting Iraqi and US
forces against armed men in Diwaniyah's Salim Street and southern
areas of the city including the Nahda and Wahda districts. The
sound of explosions could be heard.


US and Iraqi forces moved into Diwaniyah on Friday, arresting
nearly 30 militants and killing three fighters as part of the
crackdown aimed at reining in Shiite militiamen who often also
clash among themselves.


The military said the operation was intended to disrupt militia
activity and return control to the government.


Over the past year, Diwaniyah has seen repeated clashes between
the security forces and Shiite militias. Last August, nearly two
dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of militiamen were killed in the
deadliest bout of fighting.


The city is riven with bitter political rivalry as militiamen
loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr clash with those linked
to the Supreme Council of Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), a
powerful Shiite political bloc.


In Baghdad, the US military announced that two more American
soldiers had been killed on Friday in attacks in the Iraqi
capital, taking to 17 the number of US soldiers killed so far
this month.


One of the soldiers was killed when a "shaped charge" detonated
in an eastern part of capital on Friday.


Such devices have been blamed for the deaths of at least 170 US
service personnel since May 2004. The white-hot slug of molten
metal they blast out when they explode can penetrate the armoured
skins of troop carriers.


Materials used to make the projectiles were discovered in
Diwaniyah on Friday and the US military alleges that such devices
are supplied to Iraq's Shiite militias by Iranian elements.

