

Derek Riordan scored the only goal of the game to hand Celtic a
1-0 victory at home to Motherwell as they continued to stagger
towards the Scottish Premier League title.


The former Hibs player came off the bench to win the match for
the Parkhead club and take Gordon Strachan's side to within three
points of their second consecutive league title.


However, Celtic were again unable to shrug off the lethargy which
had seen them lose to Rangers, Falkirk and then draw with Dundee
United in their last three SPL matches.


The league leaders' inability to make the most of their chances
became apparent inside the opening 10 minutes, with Maciej
Zurawski the worst culprit.


First, Lee Naylor's cross was cleverly headed down by Jan
Vennegoor of Hesselink into the Polish international's path in
the fifth minute but his weak effort was pushed wide by
Motherwell goalkeeper Graeme Smith.


Zurawski missed another good chance in the eighth minute when
Aiden McGeady's weighted pass put him in on goal but this time he
pulled his shot wide from 12 yards


In the 35th minute Zurawski's day got worse when he was forced
off after being injured by a late challenge from Motherwell
defender Steven Craigan, and he was replaced by Riordan.


Although Celtic were continuing to dominate play, Motherwell were
creating a number of good opportunities and on the stroke of
half-time they should have taken the lead.


Brian Kerr's mis-hit shot from 20 yards wrong-footed the hosts'
defence and fell to Hungarian Krisztian Vadocz, but from six-
yards he shot straight at Celtic's Polish goalkeeper Artur Boruc.


The Celtic fans in the 58,654 crowd were becoming increasingly
frustrated at their side's lack of finishing prowess but in the
52nd minute Riordan showed his team-mates the way to goal.


Japanese playmaker Shunsuke Nakamura's cross was headed back
across goal by Vennegoor of Hesselink and the former Hibs player
slid in to poke the ball home from close range.


Motherwell pushed forward in the closing stages to try and
salvage a draw and a looping header from Craigan required Boruc
to tip over at full-stretch.


In a thrilling game at Pittodrie Dundee United won 4-2 to all but
end Aberdeen's hopes of catching second placed Rangers, who are
five points ahead with a game in hand.


After an incredible opening 20 minutes the sides shared five
goals. First a Jon Daly penalty put United ahead in the first
minute but Stevie Lovell equalised five minutes later.


Darren Mackie then put the Dons in front from the penalty spot in
the eighth minute only for Noel Hunt to level four minutes later.


Greg Cameron put the visitors ahead again in the 17th minute and
he scored his second early in the second half to make it 4-2.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline grabbed a lifeline with a 1-0 win
at home to Hibernian, Phil Maguire scoring their winner late on.


The Pars are now four points behind second bottom St Mirren - who
are at home to Rangers on Sunday and could hand Celtic the title
if they manage to secure a win over the Ibrox men.


Hearts won 1-0 at home to Kilmarnock. Czech forward Michal
Pospisal came off the bench to score the only goal of the game in
the second half.


Inverness Caledonian Thistle drew 1-1 at home to Falkirk. Carl
Finnigan put the visitor's ahead late on but Caley equalised
through John Rankin.


And First Division leaders Gretna missed a chance to clinch
promotion when they lost 2-0 to second place St Johnstone - with
Trinidad and Tobago international Jason Scotland scoring both
goals.

