

A high-level US delegation is set to go on a landmark trip to
Pyongyang Saturday after Washington announced advances that could
pave the way toward North Korea dismantling its nuclear weapons
arsenal.


A bipartisan team, led by New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson,
will leave Santa Fe at 9:30 am (1530 GMT) on a four-day trip at
the invitation of North Korea to oversee the recovery of remains
of US soldiers killed in the Korean War, officials said.


The delegation is expected to be in Pyongyang on Sunday late in
the afternoon.


The trip was announced last week, prior to a breakthrough on
Friday that Washington said could allow for the transfer of 25
million dollars of allegedly illicit funds back to North Korea
and subsequently advance nuclear talks.


The Monetary Authority of Macau, a Chinese territory, froze the
funds in September after Washington accused Banco Delta Asia
(BDA) of handling what it called illicit North Korean assets
linked to money laundering, drug trafficking and counterfeit
currency.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said that Washington
had identified "the technical pathway by which these funds may be
returned" from Banco Delta Asia (BDA) in Macau to Pyongyang.


The United States had agreed to set the stage for the transfer in
line with a February 13 accord achieved in six-nation nuclear
talks, in which Pyongyang agreed to shut down its key nuclear
facility within 60 days under an aid-for- disarmament package.


North Korea has refused to close the Yongbyon nuclear reactor and
refused to return to multilateral nuclear talks until it received
the frozen money.


The six-party talks were launched in 2003 aimed at ending the
North's nuclear weapons ambitions. But they have been plagued by
disputes, amid which Pyongyang shocked the world with its first
atomic weapons test in October.


North Korea has also agreed to admit UN nuclear inspectors to
verify its closure of Yongbyon nuclear plant reactor in return
for 50,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil under the first phase of the
February 13 accord.


The agreement requires the United States to consider removing
Pyongyang from its list of state sponsors of terrorism as they
move towards full diplomatic ties.


McCormack said chief US nuclear envoy Christopher Hill would
travel to northeast Asian capitals beginning this weekend in an
apparent bid to reconvene talks among the United States, China,
the two Koreas, Russia and Japan.


Hill was to leave Washington Sunday for Tokyo, and later head to
Seoul and Beijing to also discuss a "timeline" for the second
phase of North Korea's denuclearization program.


Meanwhile the Richardson delegation, which includes National
Security Council Director for Asia Victor Cha, a key White House
official, will visit the border village of Panmunjom, on the cusp
of the demilitarized zone between the two Koreas, where North
Korea's Peoples Army will transfer remains.


The delegation will then head to a US Army garrison in South
Korea for a repatriation ceremony in which the remains will be
formally returned to US custody.


More than 33,000 American troops died in the Korean War from
1950-1953, and about 8,100 are listed as missing.


"Our objective is to try to see if we can get some remains of the
very proud and honorable servicemen that perished in the Korean
War. So if we get some remains back, it's a sign of progress in
the relationship," said Richardson, a 2008 Democratic
presidential hopeful.


He has been to North Korea five times and hosted delegations from
Pyongyang.


Richardson, who also served as US ambassador to the United
Nations, has had experince negotiating the release of hostages,
US servicemen and political prisoners in North Korea, Iraq and
Cuba.


Most recently, he negotiated a 60-day ceasefire in war-torn
Darfur following direct talks with rebel leaders and the
president of Sudan.

