

The Natal-based Coastal Sharks stormed back into third place on
the Super 14 rugby ladder when they thrashed the Queensland Reds
59-16 here Saturday.


The Sharks scored nine tries to one to record their biggest ever
win in Super rugby, while for the bottom of the table Reds it was
their second greatest loss since the tournament began a decade
ago.


After a relatively close first half, the Sharks cut loose in the
second period with their brand of unorthodox attacking play
proving too much for the tiring Reds to handle.


Tries were shared among forwards and backs with lock AJ Venter
and winger JP Pietersen both grabbing doubles. Things had looked
ominous for the Reds when they almost conceded a pushover try
after only two minutes.


Referee Chris Pollock ordered that the scrum be reset and from
the next movement Springbok lock Venter crashed over.


The Reds hit back after 10 minutes when rugby league convert
Clinton Schifcofske booted a penalty and then took an unlikely
lead midway through the half when skipper John Roe scored a
brilliant solo try.


The 108 kilogram No.8 took a short pass 30 metres out then jinked
his way to the tryline, crashing over in Ruan Pienaar's tackle to
put the Reds in front. Schifcofske's conversion made it 10-7.


The lead didn't last long, however, with Sharks wingers Odwa
Ndungame and Pietersen linking superbly for Pietersen to cross
out wide.


The Reds pushed hard for the remainder of the half and almost
crossed a number of times, but right on halftime the Sharks were
awarded a penalty in their own 22 and a massive touch finder from
fullback Francois Steyn gave them a lineout three metres out from
the Queensland line.


From the lineout flanker Jacques Botes scored a simple try to
send the visitors into the break leading 17-10.


The Sharks came out firing in the second half, with Pietersen
getting his second try two minutes after the restart to put the
visitors out to a 24-10 lead.


Two Schifcoske penalties narrowed the gap to 16-24 but with 20
minutes to go the floodgates opened and the Sharks scored almost
at will.


After successive losses to the ACT Brumbies and the Western
Force, Sharks captain John Smit said the Sharks had tried to
concentrate on playing the type of rugby that saw them go the
first six weeks of the tournament undefeated.


"We certainly didn't play the right kind of rugby over the last
two weekends but today we got a little bit closer to where our
strengths lie," Smit said.


"We got a little bit more clinical (in the second half). We were
trying to play a bit too much sevens in the first half.


"Once we started to stick a bit more to our structure and play
the game that has given us some rewards over the first part of
the season, we got a little back into our form."

