

An advisor to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad denied on
Saturday that 15 British sailors and marines seized by Iran had
been mistreated, saying they had made such claims under pressure
from their superiors.


"The mistreatment of the sailors is a lie," said Ali Akbar
Javanfekr, top press spokesman for the president.


"The British authorities should know that they cannot keep hiding
the truth from the British people," he said.


"We envisioned that the 15 sailors would be subjected to pressure
by British security and intelligence forces. For that reason,
President Ahmadinejad asked Prime Minister Tony Blair not to put
pressure on the sailors for having told the truth, but (he) did
not hear this humanitarian appeal, Javanfekr said.


"London's attitude was foreseeable, because expression of the
truth by the sailors would have been a challenge to the British
government and army.


"By dictating certain statements made by the freed troops, the
British authorities are seeking to improve their situation and
diminish the pressure of British public opinion."


The 15 British naval personnel held by Iran told on Friday how
they were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as part of
"psychological" intimidation during their detention.


A day after their return to Britain following 13 days in
captivity, they said they feared for their lives if they resisted
and that they were threatened with seven years in jail if they
did not confess to being in Iranian waters.


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman told a press conference of the
mind games he said were used by their captors to get information
and confessions.


"When we first went to prison we were put up against the wall,
hands bound, blindfolded and people were cocking weapons in the
background, which as you can imagine is an extremely nerve-
wracking occasion."


Javanfekr, commenting on the claims, said Tehran could have
organised its own "meeting of the sailors with journalists in
Iran so that they could ask whatever they wanted but it did not
do so to avoid the sailors having problems" when they got home.


The eight sailors and seven Royal Marines were captured in the
northern Gulf on March 23 while carrying out what they said was a
routine anti-smuggling operation in Iraqi territorial waters.
Iran insists that they had illegally entered its waters.


Javanfekr also rejected claims that Iran had taken hostages in
the affair with Britain.


"American leaders have accused Iran of hostage taking with
regards to the British sailors, when the United States is the
biggest hostage taker," he said, in reference to a detention camp
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


"The United States has not only taken Muslim fighters hostage but
also the United Nations and the Security Council."

