

Derek Riordan scored the only goal of the game to hand Celtic a
1-0 victory at home to Motherwell as they continued to stagger
towards the Scottish Premier League title.


The former Hibs player came off the bench to win the match for
the Parkhead club and take them to within three points of their
second consecutive league trophy.


However, Celtic were again unable to shrug off the lethargy which
had seen them lose to Rangers, Falkirk and then draw with Dundee
United in their last three SPL matches.


Celtic manager Gordon Strachan was quick to put this win in
perspective: "That's the poorest we've played for quite some
time. We actually played better in our last few games but didn't
win.


"Recently we've had two or three players off form but today it
was more than that. We missed some early chances and became
nervous.


"When Derek came on he was the one player who looked like he
could do something for us and I'm pleased for him."


Motherwell manager Maurice Malpas thought his side deserved to
take at least a point from the game.


He said: "It's a disappointing result. We were at least as good
as Celtic in terms of chances created, played well and deserved
to take something from the game.


"But forget the sob stories, if you play well you have to win and
we need more belief in front of goal."


In the opening 10 minutes Celtic again displayed their inability
to make the most of their chances, with Maciej Zurawski the worst
culprit.


First, Lee Naylor's cross was cleverly headed down by Jan
Vennegoor of Hesselink into the Polish international's path in
the fifth minute but his weak effort was pushed wide by
Motherwell goalkeeper Graeme Smith.


Zurawski missed another good chance in the eighth minute when he
pulled his shot wide from 12-yards


In the 35th minute Zurawski was forced off after being injured by
in challenge with Motherwell defender Steven Craigan, with
Riordan taking his place.


The Celtic fans in the 58,654 crowd were becoming increasingly
frustrated at their side's lack of finishing prowess but in the
52nd minute substitute Riordan showed his teammates the way to
goal.


Japanese playmaker Shunsuke Nakamura's cross was headed back
across goal by Dutch international Vennegoor of Hesselink and the
former Hibs player slid in to poke the ball home from close
range.


The result means Celtic will lift the title if they win their
next game away to Kilmarnock, or earlier if St Mirren beat
Rangers on Sunday.


In a thrilling game at Pittodrie meanwhile Dundee United won 4-2
to all but finish Aberdeen's hopes of catching second placed
Rangers, who are five points ahead with a game in hand.


A Jon Daly penalty put United ahead in the first minute but
Stevie Lovell equalised five minutes later.


Darren Mackie then put the Dons in front from the penalty spot in
the eighth minute only for Noel Hunt to level in the 12th minute.


However, Greg Cameron put the visitors ahead again in the 17th
minute and scored his second early in the second half to make it
4-2.


In the other SPL matches bottom of the table Dunfermline grabbed
a lifeline with a 1-0 win at home to Hibernian, Phil Maguire
scoring their winner late on.


The Pars are now only four points behind St Mirren.


Hearts won 1-0 at home to Kilmarnock with Czech forward Michal
Pospisal scoring the only goal of the game in the second half.


Inverness Caledonian Thistle secured a 1-1 draw at home to
Falkirk with John Rankin's late leveller cancelling out Carl
Finnigan's opener for the visitors.

