

The highest-level US official to visit Somalia since 1994 had
talks with the government Saturday as insurgents dug in against
Ethiopian forces in the capital and reconciliation talks were put
off.


US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi
Frazer said she wanted to bring world attention to war-torn
Somalia after some of the worst fighting in its history.


"I'm here to set international attention to the challenges people
are facing, particularly the efforts to end fighting in
Mogadishu... and humanitarian crises as the result of the
fighting," she said.


Speaking after talks with President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and
Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi in the Somali government base of
Baidoa northwest of the capital, Frazer also called for more
support for African Union peacekeepers in Somalia, who currently
comprise only some 1,200 Ugandan soldiers.


Last week, an offensive by the government's Ethiopian allies
against insurgents triggered four days of the worst fighting in
Mogadishu in more than 15 years, killing hundreds of people and
forcing tens of thousands to flee.


"The fighting that took place in Mogadishu needs to have a tough
and prominent ceasefire mechanism," Frazer said, after a meeting
of an international panel on Somalia in Cairo which called for a
truce.


"We also emphasised the need to assist the African Union mission
in Somalia to help stabilise Mogadishu and Somalia," she said.


Washington backed Ethiopia's intervention in Somalia to oust
Islamist militia allegedly linked to Al-Qaeda from Mogadishu
three months ago but clashes have resumed in the past few weeks
with Islamic and other fighters.


Remnants of the Islamists have mounted attacks, demanding the
withdrawal of the Ethiopian troops and the AU peacekeepers.


Somalia has been torn apart by warlords and other factions since
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991. The transitional
government created in 2004 has failed to impose control of the
country.


Foreign Minister Ismail Mohamed Hurre said in remarks published
on Saturday that a reconciliation conference due to have been
held later this month has been postponed until May.


"The transitional government wants reconciliation, and to this
end organised a conference for April 16. However this has been
postponed to next month until certain material conditions can be
met," Hurre told the Saudi-owned Arabic- language daily Asharq
Al-Awsat.


He said there was "no question of any involvement of or
participation by the Islamic courts" in the conference, but added
that "when we arrive at a constitutional phase, they can found a
political party."


Somalia needs around 42.2 million dollars (32 million euros) to
organise the reconciliation conference, but some potential donors
have made aid conditional on moderate Islamists also being
invited.


"If some people insist that the Islamic courts take part in
negotiations, that would mean the involvement of former warlords
in a solution" in Somalia, Hurre said without elaborating.


Meanwhile in Mogadishu insurgents were strengthening their
positions despite efforts by elders to end hostilities, piling up
heaps of sand with bulldozers to block streets and digging
trenches.


They were particularly active near the soccer stadium where
Ethiopian troops are based and in the Hotel Ramadan area in
northern Mogadishu.


"We have to make trenches everywhere in this city to show that we
are solid and have confidence in winning this war against the
Ethiopian invasion," a young fighter who refused to be named told
AFP near the stadium.


"This is a military tactic, they are using tanks and other heavy
weapons so we have to dig deep holes to prevent tanks," Mohamed
Dhuhul Moalim, another fighter armed with an AK47 rifle said.


"We have no confidence in this ceasefire agreement. I think this
fighting will continue unless Ethiopians leave our country."

