

Paris Saint Germain moved further away from the drop zone
Saturday as they fought out a 2-1 win against Le Mans at the Parc
des Princes.


Paul Le Guen's side are now three points above the relegation
zone moving one place up to 16th position following their second
straight win after last weekend's 2-1 win against Lens.


Brazilian striker Grafite had given Le Mans the lead after 31
minutes but the Parisians earned maximum points and just their
eighth victory of the campaign with goals from Peguy Luyindula
(55) and substitute Amara Diane (80).


Diane had come on for underperforming captain Pauleta after 68
minutes and 12 minutes later found the net through the feet of Le
Mans goalie Rodolphe Roche, much to the delight of the jubiliant
home crowd.


PSG still face a battle for survival with upcoming fixtures
against French League Cup winners Bordeaux, Toulouse and Lyon,
but Le Guen believes they are on the right track.


"I'm delighted with the fighting spirit of my players," said Le
Guen.


"We're still battling (relegation) but it's good to feel that the
group, the club and fans are all behind us.


"We now have our destiny in our hands and we have to give
everything for the remaining matches."


Le Mans coach Frederic Hanz believes the battle has forged a new
team spirit in the PSG ranks.


"I think their win over Lens gave them a new lease of life.
They're coming out of a dangerous situation, the trials that
they've been through have made them stronger as a team," said
Hanz.


While PSG are winning the battle for survival, up at the top end
of the table Lyon, who are bidding for a record sixth successive
title, were held to a goalless draw at promoted Valenciennes.


The champions still managed to extend their lead to 17 points and
are just two wins from the title as their nearest challengers
Lens suffered their third straight loss - a 1-0 defeat at Rennes.


Lyon defender Sebastien Squillaci admitted that the League Cup
1-0 defeat to Bordeaux served them a lesson, and they were happy
to hold on for the draw.


"We kept our heads down until the final whistle. Even if we
conceded one or two chances we were always in it, and we didn't
concede a goal," said Squillaci.


Lens' bid to cement their Champions League claims for next season
were further hit with John Utaka scoring the winner for the
Brittany side after 31 minutes.


Lens' six-point advantage on Sochaux has now been cut to just
two.


Sochaux were held 1-1 by fourth-from-bottom Nice.


And the battle for European places looks set to go down to the
wire with ten teams all in with a chance with just seven points
separating second-placed Lens and Le Mans, sitting 12th.


Marseille will also be bidding to reignite their faltering push
on Europe when they host Lille, one point ahead of them, on
Sunday.


Elswhere Auxerre and Monaco were held to goalless draws at home
by Bordeaux and Troyes respectively while Lorient won 1-0 at
Nancy.


Nantes, meanwhile, remain stuck to the bottom of the table after
losing 2-1 at Saint Etienne.

