

Sunderland boosted their chances of a return to the Premiership
on Saturday after a 2-1 win over Wolverhampton put them into
second place in the Championship.


The Black Cats' resurgence under manager Roy Keane continued
thanks to goals from Daryl Murphy and Ross Wallace, with Andy
Keogh replying for Wolves.


It was an especially sweet victory for Irishman Keane as he came
against the team managed by Mick McCarthy, who sent the former
Manchester United man home from the 2002 World Cup after a bitter
argument.


Sunderland's win proved all the more important following
Birmingham's surprise 1-0 loss at home to struggling Burnley.


John Spicer's late goal inflicted defeat on Steve Bruce's men and
sees the Blues dropping into the play-off positions.


Derby remain one point clear at the top despite only managing a
1-1 draw away to Leicester on Friday.


Preston's dismal run continued at Selhurst Park where two goals
from Shefki Kuqi helped Crystal Palace to a 3-0 win.


It is the third defeat in a row for the team from Deepdale who
are now eight points adrift of an automatic promotion spot.


Wolverhampton's defeat to Sunderland enabled Southampton to
leapfrog them into the play-off positions after the Saints' won
2-0 away at bottom club Luton.


Marek Saganowski followed up his hat-trick last Saturday with his
team's second goal after John Viafara had given George Burley's
men the lead.


At the other end of the table, Leeds moved out of the relegation
zone for the first time since November following a 2-1 win at
home to Plymouth.


United fell behind to a first half strike from Peter Halmosi
before Northern Ireland international David Healy equalised at
the end of the first half.


The Yorkshire club secured a vital win when Lubomir Michalik
headed home against the run of play three minutes from time.


Their position in the bottom three is now occupied by fellow
Yorkshire strugglers Barnsley who were routed 5-1 at Ipswich.


QPR gave themselves breathing space at the bottom with a win at
Iain Dowie's Coventry courtesy of Jimmy Smith's second half
strike.


Elsewhere, Cardiff's poor run continued with a 2-1 defeat at home
to form team Sheffield Wednesday, who keep their own outside
chances of a play-off spot alive.

