

Fifteen British sailors detained by Iran for 13 days were praised
Saturday for their conduct in captivity, but Tehran called on
London to respond to the release with a goodwill gesture of its
own.


The detainees "behaved both honourably and rationally" in the
face of "grotesque treatment," the Guardian newpaper said.


In their first public statement since their release, the sailors
Friday told how they were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as
part of "psychological" intimidation during their detention.


Royal Marine Joe Tindell, 21, told how, blindfolded and their
hands bound, the group at one point thought they were about to be
executed and that he believed one had had his throat cut.


The eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines were seized
as they carried out what they said were routine anti-smuggling
operations near the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides Iraq and
Iran on March 23. Tehran alleged they had entered Iranian waters.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Wednesday he was
releasing the 15 as a "gift" to the British people. They returned
to Britain on Thursday and have since been debriefed and
medically asssessed.


As the 14 men and one woman began two weeks' compassionate leave
with their families, Tehran's ambassador to London said in an
interview published Saturday that Britain should respond in kind
to his country's actions.


Rasoul Movahedian told the Financial Times that Tehran wanted
London's help in releasing five Iranians held in Iraq by US
forces and on easing international fears about its controversial
nuclear programme.


"We played our part and we showed our good will," he told the
business daily. "Now it is up to the British government to
proceed in a positive way."


He denied Ahmadinejad's announcement was linked to the case of
the Iranians detained in Iraq or the release Monday in Baghdad of
an Iranian diplomat kidnapped at gunpoint in Iraq in February.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair has also insisted there were no
"side" deals done to secure the 15's release but said the behind-
the-scenes diplomatic negotiations had created new lines of
communication between Britain and Iran.


Movahedian said Iran wanted to capitalise on this new dialogue.


"If they (the British) want to be helpful and use their influence
we will welcome that. We will welcome in general any steps that
could defuse tensions in the region," he added.


Meanwhile, a British naval inquiry has been set up to establish
how the 15 naval personnel came to be detained.


The sailors' accounts of psychological and emotional torture
dominated Saturday's press and media.


"We had a blindfold and plastic cuffs, hands behind our backs,
heads against the wall. Basically there were weapons cocking,"
Tindell told BBC News 24 television.


"Someone, I'm not sure who, someone said, I quote, 'lads, lads, I
think we're going to get executed'. After that comment someone
was sick and as far as I was concerned he had just had his throat
cut."


The coverage was mixed with that of four British troops, two of
them women, killed in southern Iraq on Thursday, which tempered
homecoming celebrations.


Newspapers praised the sailors for the way they handled the
situation, including not fighting back against the Iranians'
superior firepower.


A "suicidal firefight" when outgunned "might have started World
War III", The Sun tabloid said.


And a senior Iranian source close to the Revolutionary Guards
told The Guardian: "If this had been between Iranian and American
soldiers it could have been the beginning of an accidental war."


The Guardian quoted unnamed sources as saying that Britain
declined a US offer to mount aggressive air patrols over the
Revolutionary Guards.


Elsewhere, Ahmadinejad was chided for mounting a propaganda
exercise while a number of newspapers said Blair's unpopular
decision to invade Iraq had exposed the sailors to such risks in
the first place.

