

Patrik Berger scored an equaliser and helped set up the winner as
Aston Villa secured a precious 2-1 away win at Blackburn to boost
their push away from the relegation danger zone.


After securing third spot in the Premiership earlier this season
Martin O'Neill's side had won only twice in 19 matches, leaving
them dangerously close to the dreaded bottom three.


This win however will give the Birmingham based side a huge boost
ahead of Easter Monday's fixture against Wigan.


For Blackburn manager Mark Hughes it proved a miserable end to
his club's 500th Premiership match, although it all began so well
for the Rovers when they took an early lead through Benni
McCarthy.


Villa defender Phillip Bardsley fouled Morten Gamst Pedersen as
he burst into the box, and McCarthy made no mistake from the spot
by sending the ball  into the top left hand corner.


Barely ten minutes later Bardsley made amends by delivering an
incisive cross from the right wing which allowed Berger to
equalise, the Czech striker sending his left-footed shot low to
beat Brad Friedel.


Villa were nearly 2-1 up a minute later, but an alert Friedel
stretched to tip Gareth Barry's shot from 12 yards round the
post.


After the break O'Neill's men continued where they had left off
and after just two minutes they were awarded a penalty when
Blackburn defender Ryan Nelsen was judged to have handled the
ball.


Barry stepped up to the spot, however Friedel dived to his left
to parry the England midfielder's effort.


That lifted the hosts, who will face Chelsea in next week's FA
Cup semi-final at Old Trafford, however Villa however continued
to press and in the 54th minute they had Freidel under pressure
again, the American fumbling for the ball after Barry had headed
Berger's inswinging corner towards goal from close range.


Friedel was finally beaten for a second time in the match when
Gabriel Agbonlahor connected with Berger's low cross to fire home
another late, decisive goal after his equaliser against Everton
at home last Monday.


Villa keeper Thomas Sorensen then spectacularly blocked Shabani
Nonda's injury time header, and Rovers were denied a penalty
appeal for handball.

