

The seven Tottenham Hotspur fans arrested after Thursday's UEFA
Cup match between Sevilla and the London side have been released,
confirmed a police spokesman here Saturday.


Six were arrested inside the stadium for trying to 'attack an
agent of authority' after the game and one more was later
apprehended outside Sevilla's Sanchez Pizjuan stadium after the
home side had won 2-1.


The seven were each fined between 900 and 1,500 euros
(1,200-2,000 dollars) after facing a local court on Saturday
morning.


The spokesman did not say whether it was a member of the police
or a private security guard who was attacked nor how the seven
were going to return to Britain.


Thursday's incidents in Spain came only 24 hours after 13
Manchester United fans were taken to hospital after fighting
between rival fans and police at Roma's Olympic stadium in Italy.


Fighting in Seville between the Spurs fans and the police started
about 10 minutes in the game.


A hardcore group of between 20 to 30 Tottenham fans threw seats
and stones at the police for approximately 25 minutes.


Accounts differ as to the cause of the trouble during the game,
for which no one was initially arrested.


Tottenham supporters have suggested that the police were heavy-
handed in their treatment of late-arriving Spurs fans.


"It had been a perfect day up to then but was was spoilt by some
over-zealous police officers, who started throwing their weight
around, for want of a better term," said Daniel Wynne, of
Tottenham Hotspur Supporters' Trust.


By contrast, the same police sources and local authorities have
accused drunk Spurs fans of causing the trouble.


"Some Tottenham fans under the influence of alcohol attacked the
private security officers and police, there were some incidents
as security tried to overcome the fans and nothing more," said
Faustino Valdes, a representative of the Spanish government based
in Seville.


"It was an incident surrounding a few people who behaved badly,
probably because they had drunk too much," added Valdes.


Eleven officers were slightly injured on Thursday, with one
hospitalised overnight, Spanish police confirmed on Saturday.


"The behaviour of the Tottenham fans outside the stadium was
good. What happened inside the Sanchez Pizjuan was sad, the
police had to defend themselves," commented Sevilla vice-
president Jose Castro on Friday.


Football's European governing body UEFA have already promised an
investigation into the clashes inside the stadium, pictures of
which were broadcast around the world.


"Crowd trouble in the Sevilla against Tottenham match will be
investigated by UEFA," said UEFA communications director William
Gaillard, who was at the match.

