

Thousands of protestors marched through Seoul Saturday, calling
for lawmakers to reject a major free trade deal with the United
States.


The biggest free trade deal for the US since the 1993 North
America Free Trade Agreement has left many local workers and
farmers fearing for their jobs and futures.


Carrying banners and flags, the protesters walked about a mile
(1.5 kilometres) from a public park to a plaza outside the City
Hall, where they sat down on the pavement and held a candlelit
rally.


"We don't need US mad-cow beef. Give it to (US President George
W.) Bush," chanted around 6,000 protesters.


They demanded that the South Korean government rip up the
agreement and that President Roh Moo-Hyun steps down.


"We will have no future under the FTA," Lee Suk-Haeng, head of
the hardline Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU), said in
a speech before the march started.


He said the KCTU, boasting of 800,000 members hired, would lead a
nationwide campaign to press the National Assembly not to ratify
the deal in September.


Thousands of riot police set up barricades with more than 100
police buses to keep the protesters away from an intersection
leading to the US embassy and the office of the president, but
there was no immediate report of any clashes.


South Korea's ban on US beef was one of the most contentious
issues in the 10 -month-old negotiations, which were wrapped up
on Monday without the full reopening of the Asian country's beef
market.


US officials have warned that Washington would not sign the
agreement unless Seoul allowed full access to American beef
imports.


South Korea was a major market for American beef -- worth an
annual 850 million dollars -- before a 2003 import ban imposed
over fears of mad cow disease.


Seoul last year agreed to accept US boneless beef but rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments.


South Korea has pushed for the pact despite strong opposition
from workers and farmers who fear for the loss of their incomes
and jobs if US goods gain unfettered access to the domestic
market.


Agriculture -- in particular rice and beef -- and the auto
industry were the main areas of contention.

