

Fifteen British sailors and marines detained by Iran for 13 days
were praised Saturday for their conduct in captivity, but Tehran
called on London to respond to the release with a goodwill
gesture of its own.


The detainees "behaved both honourably and rationally" in the
face of "grotesque treatment", The Guardian newpaper said as it
emerged that Pope Benedict XVI wrote to Iran's spiritural leader
to urge the group's release.


In their first public statement, the naval personnel Friday told
how they were stripped, blindfolded and handcuffed as part of
"psychological" intimidation during their detention. But Iran
dismissed their claims as "propaganda".


Royal Marine Joe Tindell, 21, told how, blindfolded and hands
bound, the group at one point thought they were about to be
executed and that he believed one of them had had his throat cut.


The eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines were seized
as they carried out what they said were routine anti-smuggling
operations near the Shatt al-Arab waterway that divides Iraq and
Iran on March 23.


Tehran alleged they had illegally entered Iranian waters.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Wednesday he was
releasing the 15 as a "gift" to the British people.


The Vatican confirmed Saturday that the pope wrote to Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei hours before the group's release but released no
further details.


According to The Guardian, the pontiff urged the ayatollah to do
all he could to ensure their return home for Easter in what would
be taken as a "significant religious gesture of goodwill from the
Iranian people".


The 14 men and one woman returned to Britain on Thursday and have
since been debriefed and medically asssessed.


As they began two weeks' compassionate leave with their families,
Tehran's ambassador to London said in an interview published
Saturday that Britain should respond in kind to his country's
actions.


Rasoul Movahedian told the Financial Times that Tehran wanted
London's help in releasing five Iranians held in Iraq by US
forces and on easing international fears about its controversial
nuclear programme.


"We played our part and we showed our good will," he told the
business daily. "Now it is up to the British government to
proceed in a positive way."


He denied Ahmadinejad's announcement was linked to the case of
the Iranians detained in Iraq or the release Monday in Baghdad of
an Iranian diplomat kidnapped at gunpoint in Iraq in February.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair has also insisted there were no
"side" deals done to secure the release of the 15 but said the
behind-the-scenes diplomatic negotiations had created new lines
of communication between Britain and Iran.


Movahedian said Iran wanted to capitalise on this new dialogue.


"If they (the British) want to be helpful and use their influence
we will welcome that. We will welcome in general any steps that
could defuse tensions in the region," he added.


Meanwhile, a British naval inquiry has been set up to establish
how the 15 naval personnel came to be detained.


The sailors' accounts dominated Saturday's British media
alongside details about four British troops, two of them women,
who were killed in southern Iraq on Thursday, tempering the
homecoming celebrations.


"We had a blindfold and plastic cuffs, hands behind our backs,
heads against the wall. Basically there were weapons cocking,"
Tindell told BBC News 24 television.


"Someone, I'm not sure who, someone said, I quote, 'Lads, lads, I
think we're going to get executed'. After that comment someone
was sick and as far as I was concerned he had just had his throat
cut."


The sailors were widely praised for the way they handled the
situation, including not fighting back against the Iranians'
superior firepower that could have caused a major international
incident.


Elsewhere, Ahmadinejad was chided for mounting a propaganda
exercise while some said Blair's unpopular decision to invade
Iraq had exposed the sailors to such risks in the first place.

