

Three men accused of conspiring with the four suicide bombers who
attacked London in 2005, killing themselves and 52 others, were
remanded in custody Saturday when they appeared in court.


Mohammed Shakil, 30, Sadeer Saleem, 26, and Waheed Ali, 23, are
the first people to be charged in connection with the near-
simultaneous rush-hour attacks on July 7, 2005 that also injured
more than 700.


The trio, all from the Beeston area of Leeds, northern England,
were remanded in custody at the City of Westminster Magistrates
Court until a further hearing on April 20, the BBC and Sky News
television reported.


The hearing lasted about one hour. Only Saleem applied for bail,
but it was refused. The men are not required to enter a plea at
this stage.


Two of the men were arrested as they were about to board a flight
to Pakistan from Manchester Airport, northwest England, on March
22.


The other was arrested at his home address in the Beeston area of
Leeds, northern England, on the same day.


They were jointly charged on Thursday with conspiracy to cause
explosions likely to endanger life.


Their alleged co-conspirators are the four men who detonated the
homemade rucksack bombs on three Underground trains and bus:
Mohammed Sidique Khan, Shezhad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and
Hasib Hussein.


The alleged targets of the conspiracy were the Transport for
London system "and/or tourist attractions in London". The
attractions were not specified in the details of the charge.


Shakil, Saleem and Ali are all from Beeston, where Khan, Tanweer
and Hussein had strong connections, but Ali -- until recently
known as Shipon Ullah -- has been living in east London.


Announcing the charges on Thursday, the Crown Prosecution
Service's head of counter-terrorism, Sue Hemming, said: "The
allegation is that they were involved in reconnaissance and
planning for a plot with those ultimately responsible for the
bombings on July 7 before the plan was finalised."


The allegations did not relate to the specific explosions which
occurred on the day but to "earlier planning and reconnaissance",
she added.


The charge alleges that between November 1, 2004 and June 29,
2005, they "unlawfully and maliciously" conspired with Khan,
Tanweer, Lindsay and Hussein to cause "by explosive substance,
explosions on the Transport for London system and/or tourist
attractions in London of a nature likely to endanger life or
cause serious injury to property".


Although the three were arrested under anti-terrorism
legislation, they are charged with breaching the Explosive
Substances Act 1883.


The July 7 bombings prompted soul-searching about the extent of
Muslim integration in British society.


Khan, the suspected ringleader, and Tanweer said in videos
recorded before their deaths that British foreign policy,
particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan, motivated their actions.


The Metropolitan Police said last month that they had always been
keen to determine whether anyone else helped the four and
investigations had been taking place at home and abroad in the
intervening 21 months.

