

Stade Francais beat Brive 18-3 to maintain their lead of the
French rugby championship on Saturday, but the Parisians will be
looking over their shoulder at future rivals.


Clermont hammered home their credentials with a 61-24 pasting of
struggling Bayonne, securing a precious bonus point before the
half-hour mark to reinforce their second place while moving a
point closer to the Parisians.


Despite going into the match claiming full respect for the
relegation-threatened Basques, who were missing a few key
players, Clermont took the bull by the horns from the whistle.


Bayonne could at least be given credit for not shutting the game
down, but the Clermont backs took full advantage to leave their
visitors with six tries conceded in the first half.


In a less incisive second half, the minds seemed already
elsewhere - Clermont next face Toulouse while Bayonne challenge
Narbonne in what could be a relegation dogfight.


Toulouse maintained third place thanks to their 35-19 away win at
Castres, a match which saw the return to the fray of France fly-
half Frederic Michalak.


Michalak, who underwent a right knee operation five months ago,
played for only 10 minutes but was delighted to be involved as
his career with Stade comes to a close.


"I'm delighted to have played a little bit," said Michalak, who
next season will play for South African side Natal Sharks.


"It's been six months since I've touched a ball in anger, so I've
lost a lot of my natural feelings but it's great to be wearing
the shirt again."


The top four in Top 14 qualify for the semi-finals which decide
who will battle for the season's trophy in the final.


Perpignan, who have had a solid season so far, held on to fourth
spot but missed out on the bonus point which could have put more
space between the Catalans and Biarritz, who are only three
points adrift in fifth.


Perpignan dominated Albi throughout to win 20-3, but touched over
on only three occasions as Albi stayed mean in defence.


To make matters worse, USAP lost their south African scrum-half
Steve Meyer in the eighth minute, and the Perpignan club's staff
believe he could have suffered a twisted knee.

