

Sheffield United's relegation worries deepened following a 2-1
Premiership defeat to visitors Newcastle United here at Bramall
Lane on Saturday.


Nigeria striker Obafemi Martins put the Magpies ahead in the 17th
minute and Christian Nade thought he had salvaged a precious
point for the hosts with a 74th-minute equaliser.


But centre-half Steven Taylor won the match six minutes later to
move Newcastle into 10th in the table and virtually secure their
top-flight survival.


The Blades remain in the relegation zone on goal difference and
are only two points ahead of West Ham United following their
shock 1-0 win at Arsenal.


Both teams contributed to a bright start with Newcastle's French
midfielder Antoine Sibierski scuffing wide from Republic of
Ireland winger Damien Duff's fifth-minute corner.


The hosts soon responded with an effort of their own as Mikele
Leigertwood salvaged a loose ball from a throw-in and volleyed
narrowly over the crossbar from 20 yards out.


Newcastle broke the deadlock when Martins drilled a 20-yard shot
past goalkeeper Paddy Kenny's left hand following a flowing move
involving Duff and James Milner.


A vociferous home crowd urged the Blades towards an equaliser but
another long- range effort from Leigertwood was their only
reward.


Newcastle continued to look dangerous on the break and almost
doubled their lead when Kenny saved Sibierski's shot, the result
of good work on the right wing by Milner.


Duff then played a one-two with Sibierski before striking a
right-footed effort a foot wide.


The home team spurned a chance to equalise shortly before half-
time when centre- back Chris Lucketti saw his weak header saved
by Ireland goalkeeper Shay Given.


Duff should have done better after finding space in a good
position early in the second-half but snatched at the chance and
sliced the ball wide.


The visitors suffered a blow on 56 minutes when manager Glenn
Roeder was forced to remove captain Scott Parker through injury.


Lucketti had another chance on the hour but Given comfortably
caught his header.


Martins almost scored three minutes later when he curled a shot
from a tight angle against the post. Sibierski followed up but
ballooned the rebound over the bar when in a great scoring
position.


The Blades immediately charged upfield and Given had to be at his
best to deny substitute Nade from six yards out, with Michael
Tonge curling the loose ball over the top.


The home team continued to pile on the pressure as Nade headed
narrowly wide with Given well beaten.


It was third time lucky for the Frenchman however when he latched
onto a Nick Montgomery pass before firing the ball into the roof
of the net.


Sheffield United enjoyed only six minutes of being on level terms
before Taylor powered in a header from a Milner corner to claim
his second Premiership goal of the season.


Desperation kicked in for the home team as Lucketti missed
another close-range header and Given pulled off a fantastic save
from Danny Webber to condemn the Blades to a costly defeat.

