

Two goals from Australian Mark Viduka helped Middlesbrough on
their way to a goal-getting 4-1 victory at home to Watford on
Saturday.


Viduka scored after just five minutes and then with a quarter-
hour to go and, together with further strikes from George Boateng
and Fabio Rochemback, it was a victory stroll for Gareth
Southgate's men.


Damien Francis equalised for Watford in what proved to be a
consolation goal at the Riverside but for Middlesbrough the win
over the Premiership's bottom club meant an end to a run of three
defeats.


Viduka scored the opener after being set up by the head of
Stewart Downing though Francis got Watford level with a volley on
23 minutes. Then just four minutes later Boateng had put
Middlesbrough back in front with the help of a Chris Riggott
deflection.


Though Watford keeper Ben Foster was having a blinder in the
second half and made several fantastic saves, Viduka managed to
get a second goal on 75 minutes to prove his value to
Middlesbrough.


Viduka, out-of-contract at the end of the season and who set up
Rochemback's fourth goal after 79 minutes, was warmly applauded
by fans when he was substituted near the end of the match.


Adam Johnson was involved in the build-up to Middlesbrough's
first goal as he managed to get past Watford's Jordan Stewart on
the right before firing over an accurate cross to Downing at the
far post.


Downing's header perfectly found Viduka who had no trouble
lodging the ball home.


Following their impressive showing against champions Chelsea last
weekend when they only lost to a last-minute goal, Watford were
not able to keep Boro at bay in this match.


However Watford did rally when Francis volleyed the equaliser
past Middlesbrough keeper Mark Schwarzer after good work from
Nigerian Dan Shittu.


It was not long however before Southgate's men were in front
again. Johnson passed to Boateng who had plenty of time to fire
in a left-foot shot which caught the heel of Riggott on its way
into the net.


Middlesbrough kept pouring forward after the break but just could
not finish off their moves until Viduka showed skill at close
quarters while earning Middlesbrough's third goal.


Viduka did well to get past three defenders before hitting a
powerful shot past Foster before setting up Rochemback for the
final goal.

