

Pirates have released a UN-chartered cargo ship and an Indian
vessel they captured in the unpatrolled waters off the coast of
Somalia, a maritime official said Saturday.


Andrew Mwangura of the Seafarers' Assistance Programme said the
hijackers freed the MV Rozen on Friday, more than a month after
it was seized after delivering 1,800 tonnes of relief food
shipped by the UN World Food Programme.


Mwangura added that the hijackers also freed the MV Nimatullah,
an Indian cargo vessel boarded on April 1 as it anchored at
Mogadishu port, along with its 14-member crew.


The pirates forced the Nimatullah to sail to waters off
northeastern Somalia where it had been held since the weekend.


The 800-tonne ship was ferrying general household goods to
Mogadishu, where Ethiopian forces have been battling local clan
militia and Islamists opposed to their presence in the war-torn
capital.


Gunmen seized the Rozen in late February and held it near
Somalia's semi- autonomous region of Puntland to the north with
its 12-man crew of six Kenyans and six Sri Lankans.


The WFP welcomed the release of the ship, which it said had been
let go late Thursday. Information about the release was delayed
for security reasons.


"The threat of piracy is still very much alive in Somali waters
and WFP urges the Transitional Federal Government and the
Puntland authorities to curb these menaces," said Peter Goossens,
WFP's director for Somalia.


The agency regretted that the incidents have made shippers
reluctant to freight cargo to Somalia, while Mwangura warned that
the ships could again fall prey to pirates suspected of waiting
for them to sail again.


He added that ransom could have been paid to secure the release
of the boats, but he had no information as to the amount.


Karim Kudrathi, director of the Mombasa-based Motaku Shipping
Company that chartered the UN vessel, refused to say whether a
ransom had been paid.


"Ransom was not the issue here," he told AFP. "It was about the
lives of the crew."


Kudrathi added: "I am happy. My people are released, my ship is
released, but I do not know what is going to happen in the future
because there is a spectre of a rise in piracy."


"I lost quite a lot," he said. "There was some shooting and the
glass of the bridge was damaged. They took the crew's personal
items and stole a lifeboat."


There were scores of pirate attacks in the unpatrolled waters off
the 3,700-kilometer (2,300-mile) Somali coastline between March
2005 and June last year, which were only brought to a halt by six
months of strict Islamist rule in southern and central Somalia.


The Islamists were defeated by the Ethiopian-backed forces of the
transitional government three months ago and since then the
situation has worsened again.


On Tuesday, another cargo ship narrowly escaped seizure at
Mogadishu port when gunmen in speedboats opened fire at the UAE-
registered vessel, MV Nishan.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the 1991
ousting of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre touched off a bloody power
struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare, which has defied
more than 14 attempts to resolve it.

