

The man many expect to be elected as Nigeria's next president,
Umaru Yar'Adua, said on Friday that if elected he will try to
uphold the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary.


In an interview with AFP, Yar'Adua, said: "As president, what I
will try to do is to ensure the rule of law. There are no two
ways about it. I want to ensure that the judiciary is
independent".


By way of proof of his record on this, he pointed to his role in
the controversial sentencing by a sharia court of a young woman,
Amina Lawal, to death by stoning in 2002 for alleged adultery.


"I told them that as governor, I have confidence in the judiciary
and I'm not going to interfere in the Judiciary because it is an
independent arm of government," he said.


Yar'Adua, the candidate of Nigeria's ruling party, is Governor of
Katsina State, one of the 12 northern Nigerian states where
Islamic sharia law is practised.


"When a person is sentenced to death, that person can go to a
higher court and the suit can go up to the Supreme court...The
(Lawal) case went to the state Sharia Court of Appeal and there
it was thrown out," Yar'Adua said.


Lawal's case caused international outcry at the time. Her case
was thrown out by the court as she had not been "caught in the
act" and because she had not been given the opportunity to defend
herself.


"Since then, I have not heard yet of any other case (in Katsina
state) because I know it is virtually impossible to prove a case
of adultery in court as required by the Islamic law," Yar'Adua
said.


"It is there in the Holy scripture. You must have four witnesses
and each witness must witness the very act. Even if you find a
man on top of a woman, it is not sufficient. You have to see his
male organ physically inside the female organ. You can see how it
is almost impossible to prove it," he said laughing.


Yar'Adua, 55, who is the ruling Peoples Democratic Party
candidate and President Olusegun Obasanjo's annointed successor,
also promised transparency in public spending.


He said he plans to replicate at federal level what he did in
Katsina at State level by setting up a committee to supervise
spending decisions.


Obasanjo and his deputy Atiku Abubakar have recently been
criticised by a senate panel report for approving the use of
public funds for purposes other than the ones they were intended
for.


Another priority will be security in the oil-rich but volatile
Niger delta, where dozens of foreigners have been kidnapped in
the past few months by militant youths campaigning for a bigger
share of Nigeria's oil revenues for local communities.


"It is the truth that they (the Delta communities) have been
neglected in terms of development and it should not have been,"
Yar'Adua said.


"It has always been assumed we produce enough wealth from the oil
industry and that the matter is a problem of distribution,
corruption and so on. There are some problems of corruption,
mismanagement ... but the basic problem is that the wealth
created is just not sufficient to address the developmental needs
of the people," he said.


He recommended that other sectors of the economy such as
agriculture also be developed "in such a way that even small
farmers can actually produce and generate enough wealth to look
after their needs and have surplus to be able to pay tax".


In recent weeks doubts have emerged about Yar'Adua's health after
he was flown to Germany for treatment after collapsing during an
arduous countrywide campaign tour.

