

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko on Friday stepped back from
a threat to dissolve parliament after months of tensions between
pro-Western and pro-Russian political forces.


"Political consultations by the president with leaders of
Parliament (a required step before dissolution) have been
postponed," the presidency announced in a written statement.


But "difficult negotiations are continuing" in a bid to find a
compromise, a presidency source told AFP. "They will spend the
weekend negotiating," another presidency source added.


Yushchenko, a pro-Western politician, threatened on Thursday to
dissolve parliament and hold early elections.


He has accused the pro-Russian coalition in parliament,
established after parliamentary elections last year, of
attempting to "usurp power" by trying to persuade pro-Western
lawmakers to switch sides.


The crisis has paralysed political activity in this former Soviet
republic.


Opposition parties, including Yushchenko's own Our Ukraine, have
not held back in efforts to press the president towards
dissolution and have planned a demonstration on the issue for
Saturday.


For their part, up to 3,000 pro-Russian supporters gathered in
central Kiev on Friday to protest against any possible dissolving
of parliament, blocking traffic in the process, pictures
broadcast on TV showed.


The issue attracted comments in the Ukrainian press on Friday.


"Yuschenko banged his fist" on the table during the
consultations, the economic daily Delo said, adding the threat
had "scared coalition deputies".


Daily newspaper Ekonomitcheskie Izvestia said Yuschenko's remarks
had had the "effect of a bomb", while Segodnia, which is close to
the pro-Russians, headlined its front page "It's a path towards
civil war", citing a coalition deputy.


In Russia, press commentators viewed the situation even more
dramatically.


"Viktor Yuschenko has threatened the prime minister with
revolution," Kommersant said. "In the days to come the conflict
between the president and the government will end up in the
street."


Yushchenko came to power on a wave of public support after the
2004 "orange revolution," a mass protest against a rigged
presidential election that was initially declared in favour of
the pro-Russian prime minister, Viktor Yanukovych.

