

European and African countries joined forces in the UN Human
Rights Council on Friday to maintain pressure on Sudan over a UN
report that accused Khartoum of orchestrating war crimes in
Darfur.


The council passed a resolution that took "note" of a high level
report by Nobel laureate Jody Williams and agreed to set up a new
working group that would monitor events in Darfur.


Williams' report, released earlier this month, found that Sudan's
government had "orchestrated and participated in" war crimes and
human rights abuses such as rape and torture across the strife-
torn region.


Algerian ambassador Idriss Jazairy, speaking on behalf of the
African group of countries, said: "We are all united in
expressing concern at the seriousness of the human rights
situation in Darfur and deeply care for the victims of this
crisis."


The decision "will also enhance the moral authority of the
council beyond Darfur and hopefully will restore confidence
amongst its members as we finalise the institutional architecture
of this new body," he added.


Germany's ambassador to the UN, Michael Steiner, speaking on
behalf of the EU, called the decision a success for the EU, for
Africa, and for the new Human Rights Council.


"We hope very much that this will be also a success for the
people in Darfur," he added.


The new group, headed by the UN special rapporteur for human
rights in Sudan, Sima Samar, will both report on the situation on
the ground, and press for the implementation of resolutions on
Darfur by the Council and other UN human rights bodies.


It will work with the Sudanese government and the human rights
protection bodies of the African Union, according to the
resolution.


The agreement between the European and African nations was a blow
to Sudan, which had sought to block any discussion of Williams'
report alleging "bias".


Darfur ultimately failed in its bid after intensive diplomatic
wrangling by Western powers prised some of the 13 African council
members away from the previous position of solidarity with Sudan.


Which ones changed position remains unclear as the resolution was
adopted without a vote.


The human rights group Amnesty International welcomed the
Council's decision but said it was weak as it failed to denounce
the Sudanese government directly.


"This resolution potentially marks a major turning point for the
Human Rights Council's attention to Darfur. The Sudanese
government can no longer be assured of the support of its
regional neighbours," Amnesty's delegate Peter Splinter said.


"It is now going to have to accept that fewer and fewer are
prepared to tolerate its systematic failure to protect the rights
of the people of Darfur," he added in a statement.


A senior EU official conceded that the wording was not as strong
as the European side would have liked, but was the best possible
outcome given the compromises required.


Williams' report had urged the international community to adopt a
"fully unified approach" over Darfur, and called on it to
implement measures such as travel bans and the freezing of assets
for those identified as rights violators.


The United Nations estimates at least 200,000 people have been
killed in Darfur with a further 2.5 million displaced since the
conflict between government forces and rebel groups began in
2003.

