

Being criticised by an angry fast bowler is not most people's
idea of fun.


But so long as Glenn McGrath is nagging away at Ricky Ponting,
the Australia captain knows all is well with his champion quick.


McGrath heads into Saturday's Super Eight game against Bangladesh
just one victim away from equalling Pakistan great Wasim Akram's
World Cup record of 52 wickets and, although this is his last
tournament before retirement, the 37 -year-old New South
Welshman's standards have shown no signs of slipping.


In world champions Australia's last match, a 103-run over the
West Indies on Wednesday, McGrath took three for 31 and his
figures for the tournament overall now stand at nine wickets for
140 runs at a typically miserly average of just over 15 apiece.


"He's bowled very well since we've been here," Ponting said of
McGrath at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here Friday.


"He's a very proud man, Glenn. He's probably is own harshest
critic. He's pushing himself to the limit at the moment and he
wants to get everything out of these last few games that he
possibly can.


"He actually had a dig at me the other day for not bowling him at
the tail against the West Indies because he wanted a couple more
wickets."


McGrath, the most successful fast bowler in the history of Test
cricket with 563 wickets from 124 matches, bowed out of the five-
day game after Australia's 5-0 Ashes clean sweep of England was
completed in January.


So too did Australia leg-spin legend Shane Warne, who tops the
all-time Test bowling standings with 708 wickets in 145 matches.


Although a more reserved character beyond the boundary than the
colourful Warne, Ponting said the two players similar attributes
on the field made them a dream to captain.


"When it's game day he (McGrath) gets out there and just delivers
for you. He's a great competitor, he's a bit like Shane Warne in
that capacity.


"When it's big game time it's generally the Warnes and McGraths
and those sorts of guys that really stand up and so far he's been
terrific."


Ponting and McGrath are two of the seven survivors from the
Australia side that went down to a dramatic five-wicket one-day
defeat against Bangladesh in June 2005 at Cardiff's Sophia
Gardens - a match where McGrath's 10 wicketless overs cost 43
runs.

