

Exiled billionaire Boris Berezovsky said he was questioned for
four hours in London Friday as part of a Russian probe into the
radiation poisoning death of former Russian agent Alexander
Litvinenko.


Berezovksy told AFP that London police asked questions on behalf
of Russian investigators, whom Berezovsky accuses of trying to
hinder the lead British probe into the Kremlin critic's death in
London last year.


The Russian prosecutor general's office, which began its own
investigation into Litvinenko's death in December, have asked to
question more than 100 people in Britain, including Berezovsky, a
Russian opposition member, and Chechen envoy Akhmed Zakayev.


The questioning "took place under conditions that I had set. It
was at Scotland Yard (Metropolitan Police headquarters), the
investigators were searched to see if they had weapons or
poison," Berezovsky said.


The investigators from the Russian prosecutor general's office
asked Berezovsky at length about his bank accounts, those of his
family, his friends and about the companies that Litvinenko might
have directed, he said.


"I don't understand why they wanted to know my bank accounts and
what company Litvinenko owned. It's not linked to the murder in
my opinion," he said.


The investigators also asked him to explain why he had accused
Russian President Vladimir Putin of having ordered Litvinenko's
death, he said.


Litvinenko was found to have high levels of the radioactive
isotope polonium 210 in his body when he died November 23 in a
London hospital. His associates have accused Russia of poisoning
him because of his opposition to Putin.


Berezovksy, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003. London has
repeatedly rejected requests from Moscow to have him extradited.


Berezovksy had agreed to speak to Russian investigators provided
that his security is guaranteed, saying he wanted to help the
British investigation find out who murdered his friend.


In January, British police submitted a file of evidence on the
Litvinenko case to prosecutors for them to consider whether any
criminal charges should be brought.


Russian businessman Andrei Lugovoi, who met Litvinenko on
November 1 at a central London hotel -- after which the former
agent fell ill -- is alleged to be a key suspect in the case. He
has denied any involvement.

