

The United States announced in an unprecedented decision Friday
to impose penalty tariffs on China to offset government
subsidies, as it grapples with a massive trade deficit with the
world's most populous nation.


Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told a news conference that a
"preliminary decision" had been made "to apply the US anti-
subsidy law to imports from China."


This is the first time countervailing duties will be imposed on
imports from so called non-market economies such as China.


The decision was based on a case brought by US firm NewPage
Corp., which contended that Chinese high-gloss paper imports were
fuelled by subsidies such as tax breaks, debt forgiveness, and
low-cost loans that posed unfair competition to US-made paper.


The decision alters a 23-year-old US policy of not applying the
countervailing duty law to nonmarket economy countries.


"China's economy has developed to the point that we can add
another trade remedy tool, such as the countervailing duty law,"
Gutierrez said. "The China of today is not the China of years
ago."


He said the Bush administration would continue to "vigorously"
enforce US trade law with respect to China.


The Commerce Department determined that Chinese producers and
exporters of coated free sheet paper received "countervailable
subsidies" of up to 20.35 percent.


Subsidies are financial assistance from foreign governments that
benefit production, manufacture, or export of goods.


By acting on NewPage's petition filed last October, the United
States was "leveling the playing field for American
manufacturers, workers and farmers," Gutierrez said.


President George W. Bush has been under increasing pressure from
the Democratic- controlled Congress to take bold steps to address
the soaring US trade deficit with China, that ballooned to more
than 200 billion dollars last year.


Some of them charged that China's government subsidies are
fueling its exports.


In February, the United States hauled China to the World Trade
Organization over its "illegal" industrial subsidies in steel,
paper, information technology and other sectors.


It was the third time that the United States took China to the
Geneva-based arbiter of global trade since Beijing joined the WTO
in 2001.


Officials said the US government next could sue China at the WTO
over rampant piracy of US goods, while exerting continued
pressure for reform to its tightly managed exchange rate.


Gutierrez stressed that the decision Friday against China did not
signal any retreat from economic engagement with the rising Asian
power.


"Rather it speaks to the growing strength of our commercial
relationship and the fact that as economic partners, we must be
above all fair," he said. "We will continue to apply this
principle to all our trading partners."


The Commerce Department said Washington's decision to apply the
new duty on China might require a review of US anti-dumping
methodology for China, particularly at the enterprise-specific
level, and that it was considering this issue to overcome any
possibility of "double counting."


Antidumping and countervailing duties offset distinct and
different unfair trade practices.


Concurrent antidumping and countervailing duty petitions have
been filed against coated free sheet paper from Indonesia and
South Korea and may result in duties against those countries, the
department said.

