

The week-old standoff between London and Tehran over the Iranian
detention of 15 British naval personnel sent oil prices surging
past 69 dollars here -- a near seven-month high -- and analysts
warned they could rise further.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Friday that Britain wanted
Iran to be "increasingly isolated" but vowed to be patient in
managing the crisis.


In London trade, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery reached 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the highest level
since September 4 last year.


Later Friday it stood at 68.64 dollars in electronic deals, up 76
cents.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, climbed 42 cents to 66.45 dollars in pit
trading.


New York crude on Tuesday soared to 68.09 dollars -- a level last
seen in early September -- on rumours of military conflict with
Iran.


"It wouldn't surprise me if we saw 70 (dollars a barrel) quite
easily or beyond," said Simon Hayley, senior international
economist at Capital Economics.


Iran is the world's fourth biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
move to disrupt its exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


"This has the potential to escalate into a full-blown crisis,"
Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris said.


"The fact that the (strategic Iran-dominated) Straits of Hormuz
could come into play is a risk, given that the majority of oil
traffic goes down this channel."


Prices have surged this week as Britain froze ties with Iran
after it refused to release 15 British sailors and marines it had
captured on March 23. Iran insists that the personnel were
detained for being in Iranian waters but Britain maintains they
were inside Iraqi waters.


Further fuel has been added to oil prices since Thursday when
Iran decided against releasing the only female British sailor
held among the 15.


A defiant Iran said it would not release as promised Faye Turney
because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude in the growing crisis
between the two countries.


Oil prices are also being supported by Iran's refusal to bow to
international pressure over its disputed nuclear programme.


Traders said some people were guilty of widening the geopolitical
premium by pushing the price up prematurely.


Hayley of Capital Economics said prices were trading at about 5.0
dollars above the level they would be if traders reacted solely
to the fundamental factors of crude's current supply and demand.


Despite the week's spike to crude -- prices have shot by about
6.0 dollars or more than 9.0 percent since last Friday -- they
remain a long way off record highs of above 78 dollars a barrel
struck last year.


"I'd be surprised (if we got a new record high)" because of the
present Iran situation, Hayley told AFP.


"It would have to get pretty hot... You would have to have a
fairly strong probability that there would be a very substantial
interruption to supplies either from Iran or the whole Gulf.


"If you get that then you could certainly see new highs but I'd
be surprised if the Iranians let it blow up to quite that level"
of unrest, he added.


In mid-2006, amid an already tight supply situation, concerns
about geopolitical instability in producer regions pumped prices
higher and led to the all-time highs above 78 dollars per barrel.


The threat of UN sanctions against Iran over its nuclear stand-
off with the West led the Islamic Republic to hint at threatening
disruption to its oil exports, which in turn sent prices surging.


But symbolising the volatility of oil trading during the past
year, they went on to fall below 50 dollars in New York in mid-
January, the lowest point for 19 months, owing to strengthening
energy stockpiles in the United States.

