

The United States responded skeptically Friday to reports that
Sudan has backed down in its refusal to allow UN peacekeepers to
help stem violence in its Darfur region.


Saudi officials said Sudanese Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir
announced the "breakthrough" decision Wednesday during a meeting
with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on the sidelines of an Arab
League summit in Riyadh.


According to Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal, Beshir
reaffirmed an agreement reached last November in Addis Ababa, to
allow UN soldiers to provide material and logistical support to
African Union troops deployed in Darfur.


Beshir had backed away from that agreement by putting strict
limits on any UN role in Darfur, prompting the United States and
European countries to begin drawing up wide-ranging new sanctions
to impose on the Khartoum government.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Washington needed
more information from Ban about exactly what Beshir agreed in
their meeting in order to decide whether to press ahead of the
sanctions.


"We want to understand what the conversation was like in Riyadh,
if there is anything there we can build upon," McCormack told
reporters.


"To this point, the Sudanese have not given any indication or any
really public indication that they're dropping any preconditions
or they're ready to allow to follow up on the Addis agreement,"
he said.


McCormack said Washington was leaving the sanctions option open,
given Beshir's record of not following up on promised actions.


"In terms of taking any further steps, sanctions or other types
of actions, those are decisions were going to take base upon the
situation as we see it, and there are a variety of different
variables that go into that," he said.


He also rejected Sudanese concerns that the UN force could be
used to capture Sudanese officials sought by the International
Criminal Tribunal for crimes against humanity in Darfur.


"There are concerns about this force being a posse to arrest war
criminals in Khartoum. That is not the case," McCormack said.
"The case is this force is focussed on stabilizing the situation
in Darfur."


The November agreement called for a three-phase deployment of a
"hybrid" AU-UN force, with the first two phases involving UN
troops providing logistical and material support to the African
peacekeepers.


The sticking point has been the third phase which envisions
17,000 UN troops and 3,000 police that Beshir has adamantly
rejected.


The meeting held late Wednesday on the sidelines of an Arab
summit in Riyadh was also attended by Arab League chief Amr Mussa
and the head of the African Union's executive arm, Alpha Oumar
Konare, and followed a meeting between Ban and Beshir earlier in
the day.


The participants "agreed on the shared need to move expeditiously
ahead with the AU-UN peacekeeping operation," in Darfur, a UN
statement said.


The hybrid AU-UN force is meant to take over peacekeeping in
Darfur from 7,000 AU troops who have failed to stop the bloodshed
in the western Sudanese region, whose area is roughly equal to
the size of France.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million been displaced since the conflict
between rebels, government forces and a government-backed Arab
militia erupted in Darfur in February 2003.

