

Social Democrat members of the European Parliament wrote to the
speaker of the US House of Representatives on Friday objecting to
US plans to install a missile defence shield in Central Europe.


The letter asks Nancy Pelosi to support "a reassessment of the
plans of President George W Bush's administration to deploy part
of its anti-missile defence system in the Czech Republic and
Poland".


Pelosi's opposition Democratic party has a majority in the US
Congress.


The letter was signed by Czech Social Democrat MEP Libor Roucek
and a handful of leading Polish, Dutch and Austrian members of
the Socialist Party grouping in the European Parliament.


They said they feared the anti-ballistic missile shield would
"split the international community and seriously jeopardize
attempts to stop the spread of weapons of mass destruction".


Russia has fiercely opposed the US plan.


In addition, they questioned the "unilateral" way "in which the
American administration pursues negotiations with Poland and the
Czech Republic". They want the issue negotiated by NATO and the
European Union. Poland and the Czech Republic are members of both
bodies.


This idea was raised earlier in the week by both Javier Solana,
the European Union foreign policy chief, and by NATO Secretary
General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer.


Under the US plan, Poland would host a series of missile sites
while the Czech republic would host the radar component of the
shield. Washington says the shield is a defence against possible
missile attacks from "rogue" nations such as Iran.


On Wednesday, the Czech government announced it would open formal
negotiations with the US administration over the siting of the
radar station.


The opposition and a majority of Czechs oppose the country's
participation in the defence shield.


On Thursday, Admiral Edmond Giambastiani, vice chairman of the US
joint chiefs of staff, said that Washington could turn to next
door Slovakia if it failed to site its missile defence system in
the Czech Republic and Poland, according to the Slovak news
agency, SITA.

