

India's central bank tightened its monetary policy again on
Friday, saying it was "critical" to take action against stubborn
inflation.


It raised its key short-term lending rate and the amount of cash
that commercial banks must hold on deposit, to suck out liquidity
and fight inflation which has emerged as a problem as the economy
booms.


The Reserve Bank of India hiked the key short term lending rate,
known as the repo rate, by a quarter of a percentage point to
7.75 percent and boosted the cash reserve ratio by half a
percentage point to 6.5 percent in a bid to take money out of the
banking system.


"In view of current monetary and anticipated liquidity
conditions, it is critical to take demonstrable and determined
action on an immediate basis," the bank said.


The move came after inflation remained stuck for a third week at
6.46 percent, far above the bank's tolerance band of 5.0 to 5.5
percent, amid a booming economy.


"The hike in the cash reserve ratio would suck out 155 billion
rupees (3.56 billion dollars) from the banking system," the RBI
statement added.


The further tightening of the cash reserve ratio had been
forecast by economists, but not the repo rate.


"This is a clear signal for interest rates to go up further" when
the RBI next considers its monetary policy on April 24, said
Bidisha Ganguly, chief economist with brokerage BRICS Securities.


"Probably the RBI is panicking a bit... we did not expect an out-
of-turn tightening" of the repo rate, she said.


This is the seventh repo rate increase since the RBI began
raising the lending rate in October 2005.


Credit has been expanding by more than 30 percent a year amid
surging demand for services, manufactured goods and housing from
an increasingly affluent middle class.


Authorities are trying to allow Asia's fourth-largest economy to
move onto a higher growth path without letting inflation get out
of control.


The bank last tightened monetary policy in February when it
raised the cash reserve ratio in two 25-basis-point moves.


The bank has said containing inflation is "not only an economic
necessity but also a moral compulsion", calling it a "tax on the
poor".


India's poor masses, as well as those on fixed incomes, have been
hard hit by rising costs of staple foods such as pulses and
vegetables.


The cost of living has become a key issue for the Congress-led
government, which is facing elections in April in Uttar Pradesh,
India's most populous state and considered politically pivotal.


Rising prices were blamed for the party's poor showing in two
state elections last month.


The government -- mindful that rising prices can be political
dynamite among the poor who helped propel it to power in 2004 --
insists price stability is one of its top priorities.


The government has cut customs duties on cooking oil, cement and
other goods in a bid to lower prices of basic necessities.

