

The European Union on Friday called on UN Security Council
members, including Russia, to back moves to offer supervised
independence to Kosovo, despite some divergences in its own
ranks.


"I trust that UN Security Council members will live up to their
responsibilities and pursue a resolution of this matter in the
spirit of responsible multilateralism," EU Enlargement
Commissioner Olli Rehn said after a day of talks between EU
foreign ministers.


"Only then will we be able to have sustainable stability in the
Balkans," added German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier
at a press conference in the northern German port city of Bremen.


"The greater consequence" of not agreeing to Kosovan independence
"is that the hopes that have grown in recent years in the region
will be dashed," he said.


Russia, which can wield a Security Council veto, opposes
independence for Kosovo and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov said Thursday that UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari "will fail"
if he pursues his current plan for the province.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the large separatist-
minded ethnic Albanian majority.


A diplomatic source said while there was broad support for the
Ahtisaari plan, there remained "small divergences" among EU
member states on Kosovo gaining independence from Serbia.


Slovakia, a traditional ally of Belgrade which bluntly rejects
the idea of independence for its breakaway province, was said to
be in the awkward camp along with Spain, which has its own
concerns over independence activists in Catalonia and the Basque
country, and Cyprus, itself divided.


The EU differences will be reflected in the Security Council
where Britain and France are permanent members while Slovakia,
along with Belgium and Italy, currently hold a non-permanent,
non-veto-wielding seat.


Spanish Minister for European Affairs Alberto Navarro spoke of
"independence imposed without a judicial basis," adding that
concerns remained that "when we talk about splitting countries
up, the map of Europe could change every year".


The European ministers played down the differences at their press
conference.


"I know there are differences between member states," but "I
don't conclude that support for the Ahtisaari plan is falling
away," Steinmeier said.


It was the EU's first major get-together since Ahtisaari
presented the UN with his final proposals for the breakaway
Serbian province's future status.


After over a year of fruitless talks between Serbian and Kosovar
authorities, Ahtisaari recommended that the Serbian province be
awarded "independence, supervised by the international
community".


Despite the opposition and debate in the UN and the EU, the
foreign ministers were also preparing for the key role the Union
will play in Kosovo if Ahtisaari's plan is implemented.


Most of the responsibility for ensuring the smooth transfer of
power from the UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to the province's
nascent institutions will fall to the EU, with NATO playing the
key security role.


Also an "EU special representative" will "oversee the
implementation of the settlement, and have some clearly defined
and reviewable executive powers".


The EU's future presence would involve some 1,300-1,500
international police, judges, prosecutors and customs officials
based in Pristina.


The total cost to the whole international community of
supervising the move to independence is estimated at between
1.3-1.5 billion euros (1.7-2.0 billion dollars) in the three
years from 2008-2010.


The Security Council is set to debate Ahtisaari's plan next
month.


The ministers also condemned Iran's seizure of 15 British naval
personnel.


On Saturday the focus of the two-day meeting shifts to the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, as the ministers discuss their
relations with the new Palestinian government of national unity.

