

Australia captain Ricky Ponting has insisted the world champions'
stunning defeat by Bangladesh two years ago won't be a factor
when they meet the Asian side in the World Cup on Saturday.


Ponting's men, unbeaten in World Cup competition since the 1999
tournament in England, are firm favourites to win the Super Eight
clash here Saturday at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


But they were an all but unbackable 1/500 with some London
bookamkers before their triangular series one-day international
in Cardiff on June 18, 2005.


However, in the greatest upset in the history of limited overs
international cricket, Bangladesh won by five wickets with
Mohammad Ashraful scoring 100.


Before that game, all-rounder Andrew Symonds had been dropped
from the Australia side after a late-night drinking session and
Ponting said lessons from the extraordinary reverse had long
since been learnt.


"We've worked it out. A lot's been said about it already. It's
long gone and forgotten about as far as we are concerned," said
Ponting.


"We just didn't play at our best that day and there was a bit of
of other stuff happening around the ground.


"I had a few things on my mind during the course of the day. We
lost that game, Bangladesh played well, we made a lot of mistakes
and hopefully we are a better team tomorrow (Saturday) than we
were on that day. I think we are.


"The cricket you've seen us play the last few weeks would
indicate that tomorrow, the way we are going at the moment, that
we should be able to play cricket good enough to win this game.
That's all we've been focused on the last couple of days.


"We played a very good game against South Africa (beaten by 83
runs), an excellent game against the West Indies (thrashed by 103
runs on Wednesday). We feel we are very well prepared, we've
played a game here we should know these conditions pretty well."


Bangladesh have already caused one of the big surprises of this
World Cup by knocking out India and Ponting agreed that while his
side had improved so too had Australia's next opponents.


"They are in the Super Eights part of the World Cup tournament so
you have to pay them the attention they deserve. We spoken about
it. They've probably used the minnow tag very well in their
favour. I think they are actually a bit better than that.


"They have improved a lot, there's no doubt about that. They
almost beat us in a Test match when we went straight there after
South Africa last year.


"They've got some young players who are very capable on their day
and we have prepared for them as we would a South Africa, a West
Indies or a New Zealand game.


"We've seen some good young talent come out of Bangladesh and
hopefully they continue to improve - just not tomorrow."

