

A Saudi prisoner at the US "war on terror" camp in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, said he had confessed under torture, according to a
report released Friday by the Defense Department.


Abdel Rahim al-Nashiri, the suspected mastermind behind the 2002
attack of the guided-missile destroyer USS Cole in Yemen, made
the charge before a US military tribunal to determine his status
as an "enemy combatant" on March 14.


"The detainee states that he was tortured into confession and
once he made a confession his captors were happy and they stopped
torturing him," a military officer assigned to represent Nashiri
was quoted as saying in a censored transcript of the closed-door
hearing.


"Also, the detainee states that he made up stories during the
torture in order to get it to stop," the officer said.


The Pentagon report gave no details on the claims by Nashiri, who
is suspected of being the Al-Qaeda operations chief in the Gulf.
He was arrested in late October 2002 in the United Arab Emirates.


Among his alleged operations were the attacks against US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998, which claimed 224
lives, and the USS Cole attack, which killed 17.


Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said Friday that "all
allegations of torture are investigated." He said that sections
of the document were blacked out for national security reasons.


According to the transcript, Nashiri said he had confessed under
torture the attack against the French merchant vessel Limburg,
the USS Cole bombing, plans to attack US ships in the Gulf, a
plan to hijack an airplane to crash it into a ship and links with
people who committed attacks in Saudi Arabia.


He also claimed to have been forced to confess that Al-Qaeda
chief Osama bin Laden had a nuclear bomb.


But he denied having organized the attacks against the USS Cole
in 2000 and the embassy attacks in East Africa in 1998.


"The detainee states that he is not a member of Al-Qaeda and
denies any involvement in the USS Cole bombing," the military
officer said.


Nashiri acknowledged that he "knows the people involved in the
USS Cole bombing personally because he had a business
relationship with them in the fishing industry and did not know
what they were planning to do," the officer said.


The detainee "would like to restate that he had nothing to do
with the Kenya and Tanzania bombings."


Nashiri is one of 14 suspects transferred to Guantanamo in
September after being held secretly by the CIA for several years.
Nine of them have appeared in closed-door hearings to determine
their status as "enemy combatants."


One of these suspects, Walid bin Attash, admitted he organized
the USS Cole attack and had participated in the 1998 US embassy
attacks in East Africa, according to a hearing transcript
released by the Pentagon last week.


The release of the Nashiri's statements came as Australian David
Hicks agreed to withdraw his allegations of mistreatment as part
of a guilty plea agreement.


Hicks, the first terror suspect to appear before the
controversial US military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay, now faces
a maximum of seven years in prison including the five he has
already spent in US custody.


The military tribunals were reconstituted after the US Supreme
Court declared an earlier version unconstitutional. But human
rights groups say the tribunals continue to deny the accused a
fair trial.


The Defense Department also published Friday the transcript of a
March 20 tribunal hearing of Mohamed Nazir bin Lep, also known as
"Lillie."


According to the US authorities, the Malaysian was involved in
the attack against a Marriott hotel in the Indonesian capital of
Jakarta in 2003 and was an aide to Hambali, the suspected head of
the regional Islamist network  Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), reputedly
linked to Al-Qaeda in Southeast Asia.


"I didn't know anything about a hotel bombing," Lep said,
according to the transcript.


"It is true that I facilitated the movement of money for Hambali,
but I did not know what it was going to be used for."

