

Oil prices stabilized Friday after reaching seven-month highs in
London as a week-old standoff over the Iranian detention of 15
British naval personnel showed no signs of ending.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, ended down 16 cents at 65.87 dollars a barrel.
The contract traded as high as 66.78 dollars.


New York crude on Tuesday had soared to 68.09 dollars -- a level
last seen in early September -- on rumors of military conflict
with Iran.


In London trade, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery reached as high as 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the highest
level since September 4.


London prices settled with a gain of 22 cents at 68.10 dollars a
barrel.


Phil Flynn at Alaron Trading said positioning ahead of the
weekend helped support oil prices.


"No one wants to be short ahead of the weekend," he said, noting
that any deepening of the Iranian crisis could lead to a sudden
rise in prices, as evidenced Tuesday.


Flynn said this was partly offset by news that US corn growers
would be increasing their planting 15 percent to the highest
levels since 1994 to help meet demand for ethanol, used in motor
fuel blends.


This news, he said, was "bearish" for gasoline futures and helped
keep overall oil prices down.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Friday that Britain wanted
Iran to be "increasingly isolated" but vowed to be patient in
managing the crisis.


"It wouldn't surprise me if we saw 70 (dollars a barrel) quite
easily or beyond," said Simon Hayley, senior international
economist at Capital Economics.


Iran is the world's fourth biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
move to disrupt its exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


"This has the potential to escalate into a full-blown crisis,"
Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris said.


"The fact that the (strategic Iran-dominated) Straits of Hormuz
could come into play is a risk, given that the majority of oil
traffic goes down this channel."


Prices have surged this week as Britain froze ties with Iran
after it refused to release 15 British sailors and marines it had
captured on March 23. Iran insists the personnel were detained
for being in Iranian waters but Britain maintains they were
inside Iraqi waters.


Further fuel has been added to oil prices since Thursday when
Iran decided against releasing the only female British sailor
held among the 15.


A defiant Iran said it would not release as promised Faye Turney
because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude in the growing crisis
between the two countries.


Oil prices are also being supported by Iran's refusal to bow to
international pressure over its disputed nuclear program.


Traders said some people were guilty of widening the geopolitical
premium by pushing the price up prematurely.


Hayley of Capital Economics said prices were trading at about 5.0
dollars above the level they would be if traders reacted solely
to the fundamental factors of crude's current supply and demand.

