

Chelsea's title push was hit with a crucial blow on Friday as
influential Dutch winger Arjen Robben was ruled out for the rest
of the season.


Portuguese boss Jose Mourinho revealed that Robben is due to
undergo surgery to cure a knee problem and is almost certain to
miss the title run-in.


Robben had been on international duty with the Netherlands for
the last week but club doctors decided on his return that surgery
was the only option to cure the problem.


Chelsea's season has been blighted by long-term injuries to key
players including captain John Terry, goalkeeper Petr Cech and
England midfielder Joe Cole.


Mourinho tried to put a brave face on the loss of the winger but
found it difficult to believe he had lost his services after an
international week when he had played twice for his country.


Mourinho told Chelsea TV: "Robben will be out for a long time.
For me it is a bit difficult to accept because he played two
matches for his country, 90 minutes last Wednesday, and the next
day he came here and he is injured.


"He needs surgery and we lose an important player maybe for the
rest of the season."


The actual scale of the knee problem has yet to be revealed by
Chelsea but if it involves ligament damage, then Robben is
unlikely to take any further part in their quest for glory on
three remaining fronts - the Premiership, FA Cup and Champions
League.


The Dutchman's season has been peppered with injuries and this
latest setback could not have come at a worse time for Mourinho.


Robben had been on top of his game prior to the international
break and Mourinho had been full of praise for the winger who had
been instrumental in helping keep the pressure on Manchester
United at the top of the Premiership.


But while Mourinho lamented the loss of the mercurial Robben, he
was boosted by the return of Cole.


Cole has been sidelined all season with a broken foot but now the
England midfielder is ready to help Mourinho get over Robben's
absence.


Mourinho declared: "Joe Cole is coming back and maybe next week
we have him. But again we can never have our best team with every
player available. But if I can lose one and gain one, it is not
so bad.


"At this time we just want to have no more injuries because the
matches are arriving and all of them are like finals.


"We want to be under pressure and being under pressure is to play
every three days. We have fought a lot to be in this situation.
It is difficult but we cannot complain, we need to be happy.


"What a player like John Terry wants to do now is play and play
and play and don't miss one single second because he missed so
much in the season.


"We have some very strong characters and if they are not injured,
they want to play every time."


Cole has targeted next week's Champions League clash with
Valencia at Stamford Bridge as his comeback game but that might
be a little too early for the England star.


However, there is every indication he could return for the second
leg at the Mestalla.

