

The United States rejected any suggestion Friday that 15 British
naval personnel detained by Iran for the past week could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq
since January.


Washington meanwhile reiterated its call for Iran to "immediately
and unconditionally" release the 15, adding that it was confident
the dispute could be solved diplomatically.


"There have been some anonymous Iranian sources that have sought
to draw the United States into this by suggesting a swap of
personnel," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"We would reject out of hand any suggestion by the Iranian
sources that there's any linkage between these issues or linkage
of this issue with any other issue," McCormack said.


He said he was referring to press reports quoting unnamed
Iranians and that to his knowledge there had been no official
Iranian approach concerning a possible prisoner swap.


The five Iranians, allegedly members of the elite al-Quds Brigade
of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, were detained by US forces
in January during a raid on an Iranian office in the northern
Iraqi city of Erbil.


US officials have said computers and other equipment seized
during the raid provided information linking the Iranians to
networks that supplied technology and material to Iraqi
insurgents to help them carry out attacks on US forces.


Iran says it seized the British sailors for illegally entering
Iranian waters. Britain says they were carrying out anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters and has demanded their
immediate release.


McCormack suggested Iran had ulterior motives for nabbing the 15
Britons.


"It stands to reason that they would like to use it as a means of
distracting the rest of the world from Iran's current set of
problems," he said.


He specifically mentioned the recent adoption by the UN Security
Council of a second sanctions resolution against Iran over its
refusal to suspend nuclear fuel reprocessing activities the major
powers fear are aimed at producing nuclear weapons.


Iran has also come under pressure for its support of Shiite
militants in Iraq and Lebanon as well as Palestinian rejectionist
groups.


"The international community is not going to stand for the
Iranian government trying to use this issue to distract the rest
of the world from the situation in which Iran finds itself
vis-a-vis their nuclear program or other behaviors around the
Middle East," McCormack said.


At the White House, spokeswoman Dana Perino said there was no
indication the standoff would be resolved militarily.


"There's no indication of that, no. I believe that we -- everyone
believes that it can be solved diplomatically," Perino said.


Perino said that Washington had "very serious concerns" over
Iran's broadcasting footage of the British personnel and their
alleged confessions, and said that the US government firmly
stands behind British Prime Minister Tony Blair.


"We believe that Iran should make the decision to immediately and
unconditionally release the 15 British soldiers that are being
held there in Iran," she said.

