

A Spanish court ruled on Friday that a new party created by the
political wing of Basque separatist group ETA cannot hold a
meeting this weekend to unveil its platform.


But a spokeswoman for Batasuna said the meeting of the Abertzale
Sozialisten Batasuna (Socialist Patriotic Unity) would go ahead.


"We are sticking to this engagement because this meeting has
nothing to do with the decision" of the court, the spokeswoman
said.


Batasuna announced the creation of the new party earlier this
week, adding that it would contest local elections on May 27.


Batasuna, itself banned since 2003 from taking part for failing
to formally break with ETA's armed campaign, had said the
creation of the new party represented progress in finding a
democratic solution to the Basque conflict.


But the court ruled that since the new party appeared to be just
a "continuation" of Batasuna, the meeting could not go ahead.


Batasuna's leader Arnaldo Otegi told a news conference in San
Sebastian the ban was "a serious attack on democratic freedoms."


Prosecutors are also seeking a complete ban of the new party at
the supreme court, which is expected to make a ruling in the
coming days or weeks.


The government has said Batasuna can only take part in the
elections if it gave an unequivocal statement disowning the armed
struggle.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region
straddling northern Spain and southern France. Both the EU and
the US State Department consider Batasuna a terrorist
organisation along with ETA.


A December 30 bombing in Madrid shattered a nine-month ceasefire
which ETA had announced on March 22, 2006, during which the
Socialist government of Jose Luis Rodiguez Zapatero had attempted
to inch towards a negotiated settlement for the four-decade old
conflict.


In looking for a way around the ban, Batasuna is considering
urging candidates to run who are not officially affiliated with
Batasuna but who are sympathetic to its cause, Spanish daily ABC
has reported.

