

Taiwan authorities on Friday fined a cable news network two
million dollars (60,606 US) and demanded its head step down for
showing footage of a wanted criminal threatening to kill a rival
gang leader.


The partly Hong Kong-owned TVBS network, which includes TVBS and
TVBS-N news channels, was fined for "overall operational flaws"
in screening the pictures, said the cabinet-level National
Communications Commission (NCC).


"The responsibility does not lie with the reporter but management
of the whole news network and therefore we demand that the
general manager (Lee Tao) step down within seven days," said NCC
spokesman Howard Shyr.


The decision came after Premier Su Tseng-chang Thursday ordered a
probe into the airing of the controversial footage, saying Taiwan
must not allow criminals to take advantage of the media.


The incident provoked an outcry from lawmakers of the ruling
Democratic Progressive Party, who demanded the NCC shut down TVBS
and vowed to stage mass protests outside the station.


The police launched an investigation into whether there was any
relationship between the reporter involved and the gangster, Chou
Cheng-pao, who was arrested Thursday.


TVBS on Monday night aired five minutes of footage showing Chou
wearing a black bullet-proof vest, waving a handgun and
threatening to kill a leading member of another gang.


The network, which had treated the story as a scoop, said then
that the tape was given to its reporters by an unidentified
source.


Chou admitted in the tape that he had played a role in three
shooting cases recently reported in central Taiwan, while
displaying a shotgun and two rifles in an apparent attempt at
intimidation.


TVBS later gave police a copy of the tape and several other local
cable television stations broadcast the same content, which they
said was obtained from police.


But on Wednesday TVBS issued a statement apologising to the
public for the story and fired the staff involved.


It said its own investigation showed that the tape was shot by
its reporter, Shih Chen-kang, whose superior had also helped.


Shih was accused of helping to endanger public security and joint
possession (with the gangster) of illegal firearms. After
questioning by police, he was released on bail of 100,000
dollars.


TVBS says it is 47 percent controlled by Hong Kong's TVB
International via a company headquartered in Bermuda, with the
remaining 53 percent held by a Taiwan-registered company.

