

The wife of a Chinese diplomat announced Friday she had defected
to Canada and accused Beijing's embassy in Ottawa of
systematically trying to quell criticism of China in Canada.


"The embassy has been in control of the Chinese communities to
reach its goal of generating impact and influence on the
mainstream (Canadian) society," said Jiyan Zhang, who fled the
embassy on March 5 and sought refugee status.


As an example, she pointed to a failed attempt by embassy staff
to prevent a New York-based broadcaster operated by Chinese
expatriates and decidedly critical of China's communist regime
from obtaining a Canadian television license.


In 2005, when New Tang Dynasty sought the Canadian license, the
Chinese embassy "mobilized the pro-communist Chinese groups and
the mainland Chinese students to write letters to the CRTC
(Canadian Radio and Television Commission) to stop NTD TV from
entering Canada," she said.


Later, embassy staff lobbied Canadian cable firm Rogers to try to
prevent New Tang Dynasty from obtaining a local broadcast
channel, she said.


Further, Jiyan Zhang claimed embassy staff tried to incite hatred
against Falungong practitioners in Canada.


China banned the spiritual group in 1999, accusing the Falungong
of spreading rumors in a bid to undermine the country's
international relations and "social stability." The group is
politically active in Canada.


"At the embassy, I personally witnessed materials to incite
hatred against Falungong. The embassy has a special unit
dedicated to collecting information (on practitioners)," Jiyan
Zhang told reporters through a translator.


"The Chinese ambassador mentioned at meetings attended by all
embassy personnel that he went to deliver materials defaming
Falungong to the MPs, the Canadian government officials, and the
former Governor General," she added.


The Chinese embassy in Ottawa could not be reached for comment.


Relations between Beijing and Ottawa have been strained recently
over accusations that China is spying on Canadian corporations,
the arrest of a Canadian imam in China, Canada's failure to
deport a Chinese fugitive, and stalled trade negotiations.


Despite these irritants, Canadian Foreign Minister Peter MacKay
said Friday: "Our relationship with China is one that we value
greatly."


"We continue to raise issues of concern to Canada including human
rights issues, but at the same time we obviously place a great
deal of value on the trade and other cultural and diplomatic ties
that we have to China."


He would not comment on Jiyan Zhang's bid for refugee status,
which can take months and even years.

