

Australian terror detainee David Hicks faces a maximum of seven
years in prison after pleading guilty to a charge of supporting
Al-Qaeda, a military judge said Friday.


The judge, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann, said that under a plea
agreement between Hicks and prosecutors, Hicks will spend up to
seven years in prison after admitting to "material support to
terrorism" after being trained at Al-Qaeda camps.


Hicks also agreed to withdraw allegations he had been abused
during his detention by US authorities, before or after his
transfer to the Guantanamo prison in 2002.


Kohlmann asked Hicks if he agreed that he had "never been
illegally treated by any persons in the control or custody of the
United States" during his detention in Afghanistan and subsequent
transfer to the Guantanamo.


Hicks replied, "yes."


The Australian had previously alleged he was beaten by US forces
before he was transferred to Guantanamo in 2002. He had also
alleged he had been sedated before learning of the charges
against him.


Prosecutors have said that the five years Hicks spent at the
controversial detention camp at the US naval base in Guantanamo
would be taken into account and an agreement between the United
States and Australia will allow him to return home for the rest
of his sentence.


Hicks also agreed not to speak to the media about anything
related to the charges he had originally faced, the judge said.


Hicks confirmed under oath Friday that he had trained with Al-
Qaeda and the judge formally accepted his guilty plea.


Looking calm and composed, Hicks quickly replied "yes, sir" in a
low voice as the military judge asked him if he understood the
facts of his guilty plea and if he believed the tribunal could
prove the charge beyond a reasonable doubt.


A panel of at least five commissioned military officers will
later recommend a sentence.


Some details of the original charge sheet had been dropped after
negotiations between lawyers over the course of the week.


An allegation that Hicks had met "shoe bomber" Richard Reid while
at an Al-Qaeda training camp was dropped, as was a reference to
"American Taliban" John Walker Lindh, who prosecutors had claimed
was on the same northern front line in Afghanistan as Hicks in
2001.


A description of an Al-Qaeda surveillance training course as
"advanced" was also dropped.


Hicks admitted to hearing a talk by Osama bin Laden in Arabic
during his time at a training camp and that he told the Al-Qaeda
leader that there was a lack of materials in English.


He also admitted that he travelled back to Afghanistan after
learning of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States
while visiting a friend in Pakistan and that he approved of the
attacks.


He confirmed that he volunteered to fight with Al-Qaeda forces in
support of the Taliban regime during the US-led invasion of
Afghanistan, guarded a Taliban tank and later spent two hours on
a front line near Konduz.


Hicks, 31, wore a blue suit rather than his khaki prison garb and
had cut his long hair short.


On Monday, he pleaded pleaded guilty to a charge of giving
"material support to terrorism" in the first case to be heard by
the controversial military tribunals set up try to "war on
terror" detainees.


Australia's conservative government heavily lobbied US President
George W. Bush's administration to expedite the Hicks case and
defuse an embarrassing political issue in an election year.


Born in Adelaide, the man dubbed the "Aussie Taliban" worked as a
ranch hand in the outback and a kangaroo skinner at a meat plant
before he ended up detained by the US-backed Northern Alliance
during the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.

