

The Western Force notched a club-record third straight victory
with a gritty 22-12 Super 14 win over the often undisciplined
Coastal Sharks at Subiaco Oval here Friday.


The result in front of a noisy crowd of 28,400 kept the Force
right in the hunt for a finals berth in just their second season
in the competition and confirmed their status as the leading
Australian contender.


The Force climbed to second and have won five games, with two
losses and a draw, while the Sharks have won six and lost their
last two.


Two men down late in the game after Rory Kockott and Warren Britz
were sin- binned in quick succession, the Sharks conceded a
string of costly penalties and that enabled the Force to steady
after being under pressure early in the second half.


The Force were led by star recruit Matt Giteau, who set up the
game's only try and was handed the kicking duties due to Cameron
Shepherd's right knee problem and responded by slotting 17
points, with five penalties and a conversion.


It was Giteau's solo brilliance that enabled Shepherd, the
leading points-scorer in this season's competition, to cross for
his sixth try of the season in the 33rd minute.


Giteau weaved through the Sharks' defensive line, before handing
off to Shepherd to score under little pressure.


When Giteau converted, the energised Force led 13-0 and the cause
of the visitors was not helped by two early penalty misses by
Ruan Pienaar.


However, the scrumhalf eventually found his range and converted
two penalties to reduce the deficit to 13-6 at half-time.


Another early second-half penalty conversion by Pienaar and a
marvellous drop- goal to Francois Steyn closed the gap to just a
solitary point soon after the resumption.


However, the propensity of the Sharks to concede penalties -- 11
in total -- allowed the Force to steady and notch their third
straight win for the first time in their short history.


In the 54th minute, the Sharks were penalised at the scrum and
referee Lyndon Bray immediately marched them back 10 metres,
allowing Giteau an easy steadying conversion.


Further penalty conversions to Giteau in the 63rd and 70th minute
put the game beyond the reach of the Sharks.


The Sharks put plenty of pressure on the Force at times, but the
defence of the home side was exemplary and ensured the visitors
were unable to cross for a try.

