

The lawyer for a Moroccan singer charged with adultery said on
Friday that his client was set up by police who wanted to
discredit the Islamist organisation he belongs to.


The announcement of the arrest of Rachid Moutchou by police via
the official MAP news agency on Monday caused major public
debate.


According to police sources cited by MAP, officers in the western
town of El Jadida caught 25-year-old Moutchou, also known as
Gholam Nakib Chouaba, in the act with a woman named Asmaa Rkik.


But the singer's lawyer Issam Brahimi told AFP that his client
said he had been kidnapped in Casablanca and taken to El Jadida,
"where he was tortured by police, who organised for him to be
caught red-handed committing adultery".


He added that in releasing details of the arrest to MAP, the
police had "violated the confidentiality of the investigation,
which invalidates all further actions by the prosecution".


Moutchou began his career in upmarket Casablanca bars at the age
of 13, before moving to religious songs after joining Al Adl Wal
Ihssane, the Islamist association led by sheikh Abdessalam
Yassine.


Al Adl Wal Ihssane, meaning justice and charity, is considered by
the press as the most influential Islamist group in Morocco,
although it has never been officially recognised by the state.


One of its leaders, Hassan Bennajeh, said Moutchou's case was the
latest in a series of campaigns against the group by the Moroccan
authorities.


"The authorities think its worth harming the honour of a member
of the association, which calls for respect for moral values," he
told AFP.


Bennajeh said hundreds of the group's supporters held a protest
on Wednesday in front of the El Jadida courthouse in solidarity
with Moutchou.


On Friday, independent newspaper Assahifa commented: "We are
facing two contradictory versions (of the case).


"The state was the first to politicise the affair...and the
target was not the person named but the Islamist association
which is not on good terms with the authorities."


But the daily Aujourd'hui le Maroc said the singer "had
contradicted his initial comments to accuse the police of making
everything up".

