

Around 150 workers walked out of a Burberry factory for the final
time on Friday as the luxury goods retailer quit Wales to
transfer production to China.


In an atmosphere mixing pride and sadness, workers, former
employees and sympathisers gathered at the plant in Treorchy,
south Wales, and marched out to the sound of jazz bands and the
village's world-renouned male voice choir.


Burberry's move has triggered controversy, with a host of
celebrities, government ministers and even Prince Charles, the
heir to the throne, stepping in to try to save the factory.


After 60 years, production at the plant finished Thursday. More
than 300 people lost their jobs.


Upmarket Burberry is famous worldwide for its beige and white
check pattern clothing.


"It's very, very emotional, We are really hurting here," said 62
-year-old David Rees, who worked at the plant for 47 years.


"When we started off on the march, there was a brilliant
atmosphere with people singing, but the more you talk to people,
the atmosphere changes.


"There's a lot of anger towards Burberry, about the way they've
done this and that they're moving production abroad."


GMB union regional secretary Allan Garley told the crowd in
Treorchy: "We just have to remind ourselves what the company is
doing, making a decision to withdraw manufacturing from Wales and
taking it to a country where the terms and conditions of
employment are inferior.


"This is nothing more and nothing less than corporate greed. The
company is making a mistake. This factory should not be closed."


Local Welsh Assembly member Leighton Andrews said the doomed
campaign to save the plant had been recognised around the world.


Protests took place in Paris, New York, Chicago, Strasbourg and
Las Vegas, the BBC reported.


"What you have shown is that community values still exist and
those are values we are proud to represent and proud to fight
for," Andrews said.


"If Burberry want to be seen as a British company, they have to
keep manufacturing jobs in Britain."


Burberry says the Treorchy plant is not commercially viable.


Treorchy village grew around the coal mining industry but all the
local pits closed by the end of the 1970s. Treorchy Male Voice
Choir is one of the most famous in the world.

