

Britain's track cycling aces continued to gain the upper hand on
their world championship rivals here Friday with at least another
two gold medals in their sights.


Britain have won two so far and will contend two gold medal
finals later Friday when Rebecca Romero battles defending
champion Sarah Hammer in the final of the women's individual
pursuit and the men's pursuit team face Ukraine.


Fellow track superpowers Australia meanwhile will be looking to
three keirin riders, including Olympic champion Ryan Bayley, to
get their gold bid off the ground after a major setback in one of
their coveted events.


After Britain's on-form pursuit team set another sub-four minute
time for the 4km event to book their final place against Ukraine,
Australia trailed in nearly eight seconds adrift to finish in
sixth.


It means the team pursuit world record holders, and world and
Olympic champions failed to make the medal rounds for the first
time since 2001 when Ukraine took gold ahead of Britain and
bronze medal winner Germany.


Endurance coach Ian McKenzie, who had been confident his troops
would step up to the mark, admitted he was disappointed.


"I was pretty condfident we could finish in the top four so to
not finish in the top four is pretty disappointing."


With 17 months in which to turn things around for Beijing, no one
is yet writing off the Aussies, who won a record five gold, two
silver and two bronze in the 2004 Athens Olympics.


However the smiles of the faces of the British squad are
contrasting conspicuously with those that are absent in the
Australian compound.


After Bradley Wiggins added gold in the men's individual pursuit
to Victoria Pendleton and Shanaze Reade's gold in the inaugural
women's team sprint on Friday, Britain could realistically win
three more on the second day of competition.


Romero upstaged fancied compatriot Wendy Houvenaghel to secure a
final berth against American champion Hammer, who will
nonetheless be tough to beat.


Houvenaghel will face off against Australian specialist Katie
Mactier for the bronze.


The men's pursuit team, inspired by the class and experience of
Wiggins, are huge favourites to take over from the Aussies as
world team pursuit champions when they meet Ukraine.


Denmark, who have setting out their medals stall in pursuit
events these past seasons, will face New Zealand for the bronze
medal.


Later Friday the men's keirin and scratch finals will also
feature, and Britain have more medal chances in the former event.


Scottish pair Chris Hoy and Ross Edgar, both of whom were in the
three-man sprint final on Friday which won silver behind
defending champions France, are qualified for the sprint quarter-
finals.


The men's keirin however will be a closely fought battle, with
French pair Mickael Bourgoin and Kevin Sireau, and Australian
trio Bayley, Mark French and Shane Perkins all battling to
succeed defending champion Theo Bos of the Netherlands.

