

Australian terror detainee David Hicks faces a maximum of seven
years in prison after pleading guilty to training with Al-Qaeda,
a US military judge said Friday.


The judge, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann, said that under a plea
agreement between Hicks and prosecutors, Hicks will spend up to
seven years in prison for the charge of "material support to
terrorism" after attending Al-Qaeda training camps.


Without the plea deal, Hicks would have faced a maximum of life
behind bars under the rules for the "war on terror" military
tribunals.


Hicks, 31, also agreed to withdraw allegations he had been abused
by US authorities, before or after his transfer to the Guantanamo
prison in 2002.


Kohlmann asked Hicks if he agreed that he had "never been
illegally treated by any persons in the control or custody of the
United States" during his detention in Afghanistan and subsequent
transfer to Guantanamo.


Hicks replied, "yes."


The Australian had previously alleged he was beaten by US forces
before he was transferred to Guantanamo in 2002. He had also
alleged he had been sedated before learning of the charges
against him.


Prosecutors have said that the five years Hicks spent at the
controversial detention camp at the US naval base in Guantanamo
would be taken into account for his sentencing. And an agreement
between the United States and Australia will allow Hicks to
return home to serve out the sentence.


The plea deal called for a portion of the sentence to be
suspended but the judge would not reveal the term of the
suspended sentence.


Looking calm and composed as he followed the judge's remarks,
Hicks wore a suit and tie rather than his khaki prison garb and
had his long hair cut short for the hearing.


Under the plea deal, Hicks will be required to "cooperate" with
US intelligence agencies in the future and was banned from
speaking to the media for one year about anything related to the
charges he had originally faced, the judge said.


Hicks confirmed under oath Friday that he had trained with Al-
Qaeda and the judge formally accepted his guilty plea.


"I find your plea of guilty has been made voluntarily," Kohlmann
said.


A panel of at least five commissioned military officers will
later recommend a sentence.


Some details of the original charge sheet had been dropped after
negotiations between lawyers over the course of the week.


An allegation that Hicks had met "shoe bomber" Richard Reid while
at an Al-Qaeda training camp was dropped, as was a reference to
"American Taliban" John Walker Lindh, who prosecutors had claimed
was on the same northern front line in Afghanistan as Hicks in
2001.


A description of an Al-Qaeda surveillance training course as
"advanced" was also dropped.


Hicks admitted to hearing a talk by Osama bin Laden in Arabic
during his time at a training camp and that he told the Al-Qaeda
leader that there was a lack of materials in English.


He confirmed that he volunteered to fight with Al-Qaeda forces in
support of the Taliban regime during the US-led invasion of
Afghanistan, guarded a Taliban tank and later spent two hours on
a front line near Konduz.


The Hicks case is the first to be heard by the controversial
military tribunals set up try to terror suspects deemed "enemy
combatants."


Australia's conservative government heavily lobbied US President
George W. Bush's administration to expedite the Hicks case and
defuse an embarrassing political issue in an election year.


Born in Adelaide, the man dubbed the "Aussie Taliban" worked as a
ranch hand in the outback and a kangaroo skinner at a meat plant
before he ended up detained by the US-backed Northern Alliance
during the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.

