

Russia is willing to participate in the creation of a European
anti-missile defence system, a foreign ministry official said
Friday.


Russia has expressed strong reservations over a US proposal to
install parts of an anti-missile shield in Poland and the Czech
Republic, saying it would threaten its national security.


President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow's opposition in a
telephone call to his US counterpart George Bush on Wednesday.


Some European officials have argued that any anti-missile shield
should cover all NATO nations.


"We must first analyse the threats that exist," the Russian
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told foreign
journalists here.


"If we conclude that they are real, we are ready to participate
in the creation of a collective anti-missile defence system for
the European continent, with the participation of the Americans."


He said his government would consider allowing elements of such a
system to be deployed in Russia.


"Some of our partners do not understand that our psychology and
our vision of the world has changed," he said. "Nothing is
impossible for Russia, if the attitude towards it is normal."


The United States plans to ask Russia to cooperate on anti-
missile defence, the US mission to NATO said in a statement. The
issue will be discussed during Russia-NATO talks in Brussels
beginning April 19, it said.


Cooperation could occur in areas of technology sharing and the
development of compatible systems, the US ambassador to NATO,
Victoria Nuland, said in the statement.


Parts of the US shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and Pentagon officials say the plan is to
have the system operational by 2013.


Washington wants to build a radar system in the Czech Republic
and put missiles in neighbouring Poland to defend against what it
says are potential attacks from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said Friday his country
would discuss its hosting of the controversial US shield with
Moscow and NATO. But he defended plans for his country to go
ahead with the project.

