

China early Saturday expressed strong dissatisfaction with a US
decision to impose penalty tariffs on imports of Chinese high-
gloss paper to offset government subsidies, state media reported.


"This action of the US side goes against the consensus reached by
the leaders of both countries to resolve differences through
dialogue," commerce ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei said, as
quoted by the official Xinhua news agency.


"China strongly requires the US side to reconsider the decision
and make prompt changes," Wang said.


Washington Friday announced that it would impose duties on
imports of Chinese coated paper, reversing a 23-year-old US
policy of not applying duties to subsidised goods from so-called
non-market economies such as China.


"The decision brings great harm to the interests and feelings of
Chinese businesspeople and is not acceptable," Wang said.


The US move comes as President George W. Bush faces increasing
pressure to tackle a soaring trade deficit with China that
ballooned to more than 200 billion dollars last year.


US Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told a press conference
that a "preliminary decision" had been made "to apply the US
anti-subsidy law to imports from China."


The decision was based on a case brought by US firm NewPage
Corp., which contended that Chinese high-gloss paper imports were
fuelled by subsidies such as tax breaks, debt forgiveness, and
low-cost loans that posed unfair competition to US-made paper.


"China's economy has developed to the point that we can add
another trade remedy tool, such as the countervailing duty law,"
Gutierrez said. "The China of today is not the China of years
ago."


He said the Bush administration would continue to "vigorously"
enforce US trade law with respect to China.


Bush has been under increasing pressure from the Democratic-
controlled Congress to take bold steps to address the ballooning
trade deficit with China.


Some of them charged that China's government subsidies are
fueling its exports.

