

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah warned Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad that he should not underestimate the US military
threat on Iran, Newsweek reported Friday.


Ahmadinejad met with King Abdullah on March 4 in Riyadh, and
publicly the two leaders agreed to fight growing Sunni-Shiite
strife in the region.


Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal told Newsweek in an
interview that the king meanwhile warned Ahmadinejad to take
seriously threats of US military strikes over Iran's refusal to
halts its uranium enrichment program.


"On the nuclear issue, we warned him: 'Don't play with fire.
Don't think the threat [of an American attack on Iran] is a
nonexistent threat; think that it's a real threat, maybe even a
palpable threat,'" Abdullah said in a question-and- answer
interview posted on the Newsweek website Friday.


"Why do you want to take a chance on that and harm your country?"
the king continued, according to Abdullah. "What is the rush? Why
do you have to do it [enrich uranium] this year and not next year
or the year after? Or five years from now? What is the real rush
in it?"


The king "speaks to everybody frankly," Abdullah said, adding
that his ruler bluntly told Ahmadinejad: "You're interfering in
Arab affairs," an apparent reference to Iran's alleged role in
stoking the violence in Iraq.


Ahmadinejad listened, then denied any interference. "But we said,
'Whether you deny it or not, this is creating bad feelings for
Iran and we think you should stop,'" Abdullah told Newsweek.


The Saudi foreign minister also said it was "a catastrophe" for
Iran to be holding 15 British sailors and marines it had captured
on March 23. Iran insists the personnel were detained for being
in Iranian waters but Britain maintains they were inside Iraqi
waters.


"This is just not the time for them to have a problem like that
looming. We tell them that," Abdullah said.


On Wednesday, the Saudi king criticized the US occupation of Iraq
in an opening address to the annual Arab summit in Riyadh -- a
move some observers say is an effort to distance himself from the
embattled Bush administration.

