

Ukraine's Western-leaning President Viktor Yushchenko on Friday
stepped back from a threat to dissolve parliament as several
thousand pro-Moscow demonstrators took to the streets.


"Political consultations by the president with leaders of
parliament (a required step before dissolution) have been
postponed," the presidency said in a written statement.


But "difficult negotiations are continuing" in a bid to find a
compromise, a presidency source told AFP. "They will spend the
weekend negotiating," another added.


Yushchenko, a pro-Western politician brought to power in the 2004
Orange Revolution, had threatened on Thursday to dissolve
parliament and hold early elections.


He has accused the pro-Russian coalition in parliament,
established after parliamentary elections last year, of
attempting to "usurp power" by trying to persuade pro-Western
lawmakers to switch sides.


The crisis has paralysed political activity in this former Soviet
republic.


Opposition parties, including Yushchenko's Our Ukraine, have not
held back in efforts to press the president towards dissolution
and have planned a counter demonstration for Saturday.


The announcement of a compromise came as several thousand pro-
Russian supporters gathered in central Kiev on Friday to protest
against parliament being dissolved, blocking traffic in the
process.


"Have we not had enough elections?" Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraine's
pro-Moscow prime minister, told the crowd. "We have a president,
the constitution works. The people are working, the economy is
growing."


But Yulia Timoskenko, head of a pro-Western bloc in parliament
allied with Our Ukraine, said she believed that parliament would
still be dissolved despite Friday's compromise.


"I am confident that the president will sign the decree" on
dissolving parliament, Timoskenko said in remarks broadcast on
television.


The issue attracted widespread comment in the Ukrainian press on
Friday.


"Yuschenko banged his fist" on the table during the
consultations, the economic daily Delo said, adding the threat
had "scared coalition deputies".


Daily newspaper Ekonomitcheskie Izvestia said Yuschenko's remarks
had had the "effect of a bomb," while Segodnia, which is close to
the pro-Russians, headlined its front page "It's a path towards
civil war," citing a coalition deputy.


In Russia, press commentators viewed the situation even more
dramatically.


"Viktor Yuschenko has threatened the prime minister with
revolution," Kommersant said. "In the days to come the conflict
between the president and the government will end up in the
street."


Yushchenko came to power on a wave of public support in 2004
after a mass protest against a rigged presidential election that
was initially declared in favour of the pro-Moscow Yanukovych,
who is now prime minister.

