

The United States rejected any suggestion Friday that 15 British
naval personnel detained by Iran for the past week could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq
since January.


A State Department spokesman also asserted that the capture of
the British sailors and marines a week ago may have been an
attempt by Iran to deflect attention from international moves to
curb Tehran's suspected nuclear weapons program.


"There have been some anonymous Iranian sources that have sought
to draw the United States into this by suggesting a swap of
personnel," spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"We would reject out of hand any suggestion by the Iranian
sources that there's any linkage between these issues or linkage
of this issue with any other issue," McCormack said.


The spokesman said he was referring to press reports quoting
unnamed Iranians and that to his knowledge there had been no
official Iranian approach concerning a possible prisoner swap.


The five Iranians, allegedly members of the elite al-Quds Brigade
of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, were detained by US forces
in January during a raid on an Iranian office in the northern
Iraqi city of Erbil.


US officials have said computers and other equipment seized
during the raid provided information linking the Iranians to
networks that supplied technology and material to Iraqi
insurgents to help them carry out attacks on US forces.


Iran says it seized the British sailors for being illegally in
Iranian waters. Britain says they were carrying out anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters and has demanded their
immediate release.


McCormack suggested Iran had ulterior motives for nabbing the 15
Britons.


"It stands to reason that they would like to use it as a means of
distracting the rest of the world from Iran's current set of
problems," he said.


He specifically mentioned the recent adoption by the UN Security
Council of a second sanctions resolution against Iran over its
refusal to suspend nuclear fuel reprocessing activities the major
powers fear are aimed at producing nuclear weapons.


Iran has also come under pressure for its support of Shiite
militants in Iraq and Lebanon as well as Palestinian rejectionist
groups.


"The international community is not going to stand for the
Iranian govermnmnent trying to use this issue to distract the
rest of the world from the situation in which Iran finds itself
vis-a-vis their nuclear program or other behaviors around the
Middle East," McCormack said.

