

Spanish national carrier Iberia said Friday that US private
equity firm Texas Pacific Group (TPG) had asked for details about
the airline in view of a possible takeover bid.


Iberia signalled last week that it was ready to explore merger
proposals, with consolidation of the industry expected to gather
pace following an EU-US deal to open up transatlantic air travel.


TPG has expressed interest in making a bid at about 3.60 euros a
share, valuing the entire airline at 3.4 billion euros (4.5
billion dollars).


Iberia said in a statement that TPG has said it will analyse the
information over the next 20-30 working days, and possibly launch
a bid within 10 working days after that, or roughly in early May.


Iberia's board will meet in the coming days to decide on the
request, it said.


The airline's statement prompted an announcement from British
Airways that it would consider selling its 10 percent stake in
Iberia and had asked the bank UBS to advise it.


"In the light of Iberia's announcement that it has received a bid
approach, British Airways has decided to appoint UBS to advise on
how to use British Airways' 10 per cent holding in Iberia in the
best interests of British Airways shareholders," BA said in
statement to the Lonson Stock Exchange.


"The advice will examine all options, including a disposal of
British Airways' holding."


The Spanish carrier is looking for a partner to help it face
growing competition following the EU-US "open skies" agreement.


The accord allows airlines greater access to markets on both
continents and also lets European carriers take limited stakes in
US counterparts.


One of Iberia's strengths is its position as a bridgehead to the
lucrative South American market, and the Spanish carrier is also
in the midst of a strict cost- cutting plan that makes it more
attractive to investors.


The company's board has done little to downplay rumours about
potential bidders, though speculation that Lufthansa might be
interested was quashed last week by the German carrier.


TPG, meanwhile, is focused in part on the air transport sector
and already belongs to a consortium that is in the process of
acquiring the Australian airline Quantas for 8.8 billion dollars.

