

The United States said it was "deeply troubled" by the jailing in
Vietnam of a dissident Roman Catholic priest for allegedly
spreading propaganda against the communist state.


The conviction of pro-democracy activist Father Nguyen Van Ly,
60, followed "an increase of harassment, detention and arrest of
individuals peacefully exercising the legitimate right to
peaceful speech," the State Department said.


"We're deeply troubled by the March 30 trial, conviction and
sentencing of Father Nguyen Van Ly on charges of propagandizing
against the state," department spokesman Sean McCormack told
reporters.


"This is a case that we have raised with Vietnamese government
officials," he said.


In the US Congress, a lawmaker proposed that a resolution be
passed demanding the priest's immediate release and an end to
human rights abuses in Vietnam.


The priest -- who has been jailed three times since the 1970s for
a total of 14 years -- was dragged into the courtroom in
handcuffs and shouted angrily as a police officer hastily covered
his mouth.


He was later ejected and sentenced while being held in a separate
room.


"We're going to be watching the situation very closely. This is
something that is certainly not a positive development. It's a
negative development," McCormack said.


It was the first of several trials expected over the coming
months against prominent civil liberties advocates, also
including Hanoi human rights lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi
Cong Nhan, detained earlier this month.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice brought up the issue of
human rights and democratic rights in Vietnam when she met with
her counterpart from the Southeast Asian state in Washington this
month.


Chris Smith, a Republican lawmaker in the House of
Representatives, called the priest's sentence "outrageous and
appalling," and said Washington should "immediately intervene" to
secure his freedom.


He sought "passage of a House resolution demanding an immediate
release of Father Ly and an end to human rights abuses in
Vietnam."


"Vietnam claims that they have put an end to human rights abuses,
but now the whole world can see that their reforms were just for
show," Smith said.


US legislators had sought assurances that human rights would be
respected before endorsing a bill to restore normal trade ties
with Vietnam ahead of its membership in the World Trade
Organization last December.

