

The United States welcomed a Japanese government decision Friday
extending by two years an air force mission supporting US-led
operations in Iraq.


"The Japanese government several years ago took a, for them
virtually unprecedented, step in deploying these forces to Iraq
and we very much appreciate the fact that effort is being
renewed," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"The Japanese forces have been very important in providing
logistical and air support into Iraq," he said.


The cabinet of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gave the go-ahead for
the extension ahead of his first meeting in Washington with US
President George W. Bush, expected to take place in late April or
early May.


A bill approving the move was sent to parliament, where its
approval is virtually assured as Abe's Liberal Democratic Party-
led coalition holds a comfortable majority.


The bill would extend the mission, which flies people and
supplies into Iraq on behalf of the US-led coalition and the
United Nations, by two years to July 31, 2009.


The cabinet approval came less than a day after the Democratic-
controlled US Senate tied funding for the war to a timetable to
withdraw US troops by August 2008. Bush has said he plans to veto
the bill.


Abe has vowed to extend the Iraq mission as part of his quest for
officially pacifist Japan to take a more assertive role in global
security.


But a poll published last week by the liberal Asahi Shimbun
showed that a mere 19 percent of the Japanese public approved
extending the mission, while 69 percent were opposed.


Japan last year ended its landmark deployment of troops in Iraq,
a reconstruction mission which marked the first time since World
War II that Japan had sent troops to a country where fighting was
underway.


Despite the troop withdrawal, Japan maintained the air force
mission, which includes some 210 personnel based in Kuwait.


The extension also comes ahead of a visit to Japan by Iraqi Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki, reportedly planned for April.

