

Australian David Hicks faces a maximum of seven years in prison
after pleading guilty to terrorism charges, a military judge said
Friday.


The judge, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann, said that under a plea
agreement between Hicks and prosecutors, Hicks will spend up to
seven years in prison after admitting to "material support to
terrorism" after being trained at Al-Qaeda camps.


Prosecutors have said that the five years Hicks spent at the
detention camp at the US naval base in Guantanamo would be taken
into account and an agreement between the US and Australia will
allow him to return home for the rest of his sentence.


Hicks confirmed under oath Friday that he had trained with Al-
Qaeda.


Looking calm and composed, Hicks quickly replied "yes, sir" in a
low voice as the military judge asked him to acknowledge if he
understood the facts of his guilty plea and if he believed the
tribunal could prove the charge beyond a reasonable doubt.


A panel of at least five commissioned military officers will
later hand down a sentence. The military tribunals can mete out a
maximum sentence of life in prison.


Some details of the original charge sheet had been dropped after
negotiations between lawyers over the course of the week.


An allegation that Hicks had met "shoe bomber" Richard Reid while
at an Al-Qaeda training camp was dropped, as was a reference to
"American Taliban" John Walker Lindh, who prosecutors had claimed
was on the same northern front line in Afghanistan as Hicks in
2001.


A description of an Al-Qaeda surveillance training course as
"advanced" was also dropped.


Hicks admitted to hearing a talk by Osama bin Laden in Arabic
during his time at a training camp and that he told the Al-Qaeda
leader that there was a lack of materials in English.


He also admitted that he travelled back to Afghanistan after
learning of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States
while visiting a friend in Pakistan and that he approved of the
attacks.


He confirmed that he volunteered to fight with Al-Qaeda forces in
support of the Taliban regime during the US-led invasion of
Afghanistan, guarded a Taliban tank and later spent two hours on
a front line near Konduz.


Hicks, 31, wore a blue suit rather than his khaki prison garb and
had cut his long hair short.


On Monday, he pleaded pleaded guilty to a charge of giving
"material support to terrorism" in the first case to be heard by
the controversial military tribunals set up try to "war on
terror" detainees.


Australia's conservative government heavily lobbied US President
George W. Bush's administration to expedite the Hicks case and
defuse an embarrassing political issue in an election year.


Born in Adelaide, the man dubbed the "Aussie Taliban" worked as a
ranch hand in the outback and a kangaroo skinner at a meat plant
before he ended up detained by the US-backed Northern Alliance
during the 2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


Friday's hearing comes a day after US Defense Secretary Robert
Gates  questioned whether the trials would enjoy credibility in
the eyes of the world and called for the closure of the
Guantanamo detention camp.


Gates's candid assessment of Guantanamo's dismal image abroad
marked a break with past policy and underlined the legal
uncertainty surrounding the tribunals and high-security prison.


The tribunals, or commissions, have been reconstituted under a
new law after the US Supreme Court declared an earlier version
unconstitutional. But human rights groups say the tribunals flout
the rules of regular US courts and deny the accused a fair trial.

