

A 17-day strike by workers at the French port of Marseille could
force some refineries in France, Germany and Switerland to halt
production as of Monday, an oil trade organisation said.


The French Union of Petroleum Industries (UFIP) said Friday that
the holdup at Europe's second-largest oil terminal was costing
tanker operators between 15,000 and 50,000 euros (19,980 and
66,614 dollars) a day.


Half of France's 12 refineries dependent on supplies from the Fos
terminal at Marseille "could grind to a halt as of Monday" along
with facilities in Cressier, Switzerland and Karlsruhe, Germany,
said Jean-Francois Cousinie, of UFIP.


A total of 64 ships, including 34 oil tankers, remained blocked
outside the Mediterranean port, but five other tankers were
allowed to anchor in Marseille on Friday due to safety concerns,
according to port authorities.


Management and labor leaders headed into a fresh round of talks
Friday to try to resolve the dispute after 10 hours of
negotiations on Thursday ended with no breakthrough.


Dockers launched the strike on March 14 to demand that the state-
controlled French gas utility GDF hire port workers from the
region to man a new terminal, GDF 2, at Fos-sur-Mer, due to come
on line in 2008.


GDF argues that for safety reasons it will employ only its own
staff.


The French business daily Les Echos reported on its website that
the government wanted to force Gaz de France to accept that five
Marseille port workers be detached to work in its teams, in a bid
to end the strike.


It reported that the regional governor, or prefect, would submit
a proposal to both parties at Friday's meeting, following talks
at the offices of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin.


The UFIP has warned that consumers could be hit by fuel shortages
at the start of April, causing disruptions just three weeks ahead
of the French presidential election.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen on Thursday lamented that
government was "powerless" to stop the strike at the Marseille
port, which he described as "illegal and illegitimate."


The National Front leader said the strike had been launched by a
"handful of communist unionists" whose demands over the GDF port
were unjustified as the port had no authority over the new
facility.

