

The White House said Friday that free-trade talks between the
United States and South Korea "aren't going well" and will not
yield agreement absent major progress in the next few hours.


"The talks aren't going well, and unless the negotiations show
some signs of significant progress in the next few hours this
agreement will most likely not come together," spokeswoman Dana
Perino told reporters.


She spoke as US and South Korean negotiators, guarded by hundreds
of riot police, haggled in Seoul over the terms of a deal, hours
before its deadline, that could boost both countries' exports by
billions of dollars.


"There is progress. Talks are almost at the last stage," Lee Jae-
Hoon, vice minister of commerce, told reporters in the early
evening.


The discussions on what would be the United States's biggest
free-trade deal in 14 years were expected to go down to the wire.


The two sides have until 7:00 am Saturday (2200 GMT Friday, 6:00
pm Friday Washington time) to reach a free-trade agreement (FTA).
Both sides said the deadline would not be extended.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday if it is to be
passed while President George W. Bush still has authority to
"fast-track" trade legislation through the Democrat-controlled
legislature.


He and South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun, in a telephone
conversation Thursday, put their weight behind an agreement --
urging negotiators to conclude a deal in time with "maximum
flexibility."


Negotiators briefed Roh Friday after he returned from a Middle
East trip. The president told them "to do their best for the
national interest until the last moment," his spokesman said.


But the spokesman cautioned: "The Korean government will not seal
a low-level FTA with the US, with key disputed issues excluded."


Roh is under pressure from heavily subsidized farmers and other
workers who fear for their jobs, as well as activists. Tens of
thousands have taken to the streets in occasionally violent
protests since the tough negotiations began 10 months ago.


Police said about 10,000 riot police were deployed around the
capital in a massive show of force.


Bush is also under pressure, from the Democrats who now control
the US Congress.


US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other senior Democrats
described the proposed deal as a "one-way street" in Seoul's
favour in a letter Wednesday to US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab.


They singled out the auto market. Seoul sold some 800,000
vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the United States last
year, while US firms exported only some 4,000 vehicles the other
way.

