

The founder of the British-registered online gambling firm
BetOnSports has been arrested in the Dominican Republic and
returned to US soil to face criminal charges, authorities said
Friday.


The Department of Justice said Gary Kaplan was arrested Wednesday
on charges stemming from an indictment returned in Missouri June
1 charging him and others with racketeering, conspiracy and fraud
for the online gambling operations.


Kaplan, the 48-year-old founder of the website, is a US resident
who had been arrested in 1992 for illegal sports betting, and
later moved his operations to the Caribbean and elsewhere.


The indictments were returned as the United States stepped up a
crackdown on Internet gambling, claiming that even sites
operating from offshore violate US laws by taking wagers from
Americans.


BetOnSports said last year it was halting its dealing with US
residents in the wake of a new law passed by Congress tightening
laws on financial transactions for Internet wagering.


Officials said Kaplan is personally charged with 20 felony counts
including violations of the wire act and racketeer influenced and
corrupt organizations (RICO) laws, conspiracy, interstate
transportation of gambling paraphernalia, interference with tax
laws and tax evasion.


After his arrest in the Dominican Republic, he was sent by
Dominican authorities to Puerto Rico for an initial appearance
before a US magistrate.


Officials have asked the magistrate to order that Kaplan be sent
to St. Louis, Missouri, or be held in custody pending his
transfer for trial.


"This case helps to establish the effectiveness of the Interpol
System of executing international arrest warrants," said US
Attorney Catherine Hanaway.


"Officials at Interpol as well as officials with the Dominican
Republic are to be commended for their cooperation with US
authorities. This was a worldwide search, and thanks to the
assistance of many law enforcement agencies this fugitive will
soon be back in St. Louis to face the charges against him."


Former BetonSports director David Carruthers was arrested in
Texas, on July 17, 2006 and is awaiting trial in Missouri. Co-
owner Norman Steinberg is still at large, as is co-defendant
Peter Wilson.


BetOnSports, a British publicly-traded holding company that owns
a number of Internet sportsbooks and casinos, operates out of
Costa Rica, according to US officials. It is under a federal
injunction to halt its gambling business activities in the US and
to return its US-based depositor funds.

