

New guidelines and principles are needed for human organ
transplantation, to keep track of fresh medical developments and
the growing trend of "transplant tourism," the WHO said on
Friday.


"Non-existent or lax laws on organ donation and transplantation
encourage commercialism and transplant tourism," said Luc Noel,
the World Health Organisation's Coordinator of clinical
procedures, health technology and pharmaceuticals.


"Transplant tourism" involves wealthy Westerners in urgent need
of a replacement organ such as a kidney, who purchase one from a
donor in a developing country at a lesser cost than in their own
country.


"If all countries agree on a common approach, and stop commercial
exploitation, then access will be more equitable and we will have
fewer health tragedies," Noel said.


An expert who took part in a WHO meeting on the issue said that
the market in Pakistan has taken off to such an extent since 1994
that between 80 and 85 percent of all transplants were carried
out for commercial reasons.


Noel told journalists that transparency needed to be at the heart
of the system. The WHO will set up a Global Forum to help develop
new guidelines.


His comments were echoed by Jeremy Chapman, from the Renal Unit
of Westmead Hospital in Sydney, Australia, who said it was
important the transplantation industry's principles were brought
up to date.


"It is essential that we come together as a global community to
set the boundaries and to provide the ethical guidance for our
clinical practice today for donation and transplantation," he
told reporters.


"Unfortunately today's reality is that the wealthy in search of
their own surival will sometimes seek organs from the poor."


"Commercialised organ transplantation ensures the middlemen
become rich, the sick get bad treatment and the poor suffer the
consequences," Chapman added.


Adib Rizvi, director of the Sindh Institute of Urology and
Transplantation in Karachi, Pakistan, noted that his country has
become the major centre of transplant tourism.


"We are surrounded by the rich buyers from the Far East, the
Middle East and the European countries," he said.

