

Former England captain David Beckham has insisted he does not
regret his move from Manchester United to Real Madrid, despite
the likelihood he will end his four-year stint there without a
trophy.


Beckham is set to join Los Angeles Galaxy when his Madrid
contract runs out at the end of the season.


But the 31-year-old insists he would not change a thing about the
move he made in 2003, despite the lack of success.


"It is a surprise Real Madrid haven't won anything. They have had
some of the best players in the world, especially during my first
year there," he said.


"There was Zinedine Zidane, Luis Figo, Roberto Carlos, Raul and
so many more. It is hard to take that I haven't won anything but
I don't really regret my decision to go to Spain and Real Madrid.


"The lack of success is just one of those situations you can't
explain. But I've enjoyed my time there and I've loved the fans."


The current season has been the most disappointing of all with
the Beckham falling out of favour with Real boss Fabio Capello
and England coach Steve McClaren.


But he fought his way back into the Real team only to then be
sidelined by a knee injury that will keep him out for two more
weeks.


Despite his waning powers, signing Beckham was a major coup for
LA Galaxy who tempted him to America with a deal reported to be
worth 128 million pounds (250 million dollars).


The midfielder denies competing in Major League Soccer is a
significant step down from the Spanish or English leagues and
insists he is relishing his ambassadorial role.


"I'm not worried by the standard in America because some people
are also saying it's the right time for me to go because my legs
have gone, he said.


"There are differences of opinion but for me it's the right time
to go. I didn't want another challenge at the end of my career, I
wanted to go where I felt I could make a difference. That will be
my ambition out there.


"It won't just be the playing side but the ambassador role for
football in the MLS and around the world."

