

Wall Street wobbled to a mixed finish Friday as better-than-
expected economic data was offset by worries that US trade
sanctions slapped on China might spark growing protectionism.


Trading was volatile as investors made portfolio adjustments on
the final trading day of the first quarter, and renewed fears
about inflation dampened enthusiasm from robust economic reports.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up a scant 5.60 points (0.05
percent) at 12,354.35, after zig-zagging for most of the session.


The Nasdaq composite gained 3.76 points (0.16 percent) to
2,421.46 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
shed 1.67 points (0.12 percent) to close at 1,420.86.


The market opened on an upbeat note after the Commerce Department
said US consumer spending and personal income both rose 0.6
percent in February, surprising analysts expecting hits from
slowing economic conditions.


"This was much stronger than expected and gets the first quarter
GDP (gross domestic product) numbers off to a good start," said
Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"It suggests that real GDP growth is on track for the 2.5 percent
growth generally expected. It will allay recession fears. It also
suggests that the problems in the housing sector aren't having
broad impact yet."


But Nigel Gault, economist at Global Insight, said the figures
were not as rosy when stripping out the inflation component of
the report, with core prices up 2.4 percent year-on-year.


"The news on inflation was not comforting," he said.


Inflation is above the Federal Reserve's "comfort zone," he
noted, "and moving in the wrong direction." This makes a cut in
interest rates unlikely.


Also hurting sentiment was a US government decision to approve
duties on Chinese paper imports, which "has piqued protectionist
concerns," said analysts at Briefing.com.


The dollar took a hit on the news as "the currency market
regarded the measure as a negative for an economy that has
enjoyed the benefits of cheaply-produced foreign goods," said
Stephen Malyon at Scotiabank.


Nonetheless, Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said
he was generally upbeat on the market and economic prospects.


"We expect our economy to ride on the coattails of a robust
global economic expansion that should offset the fallout from the
big recession in the housing market," he said.


"We continue to get evidence of steady growth in consumer income
and consumer spending although business investment spending has
slowed significantly over the last two quarters. Continuing
merger and acquisition activity should provide a halo effect over
the US stock market as corporate acquirers continue to deploy
their monstrous war chest of funds."


Among stocks in focus, Dell fell 18 cents to 23.21 dollars after
the computer giant said an internal review of its accounting
revealed "misconduct" and that it would further delay the filing
of its annual report.


Red Hat fell 21 cents to 22.93 after the distributor of Linux
software reported a drop in profits and disappointing revenue.


On the upside, Dendreon Corp. surged 7.71 dollars or 147 percent
to 12.93 after the biotech firm said a Food and Drug
Administration panel concluded that test of its prostate cancer
vaccine appeared to show efficacy and safety.


Bonds fell on inflation concerns. The yield on the 10-year US
Treasury bond increased to 4.648 percent from 4.632 percent
Thursday and that on the 30-year bond rose to 4.848 percent 4.829
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

