

Japan Airlines Corp. said Wednesday that it made a net loss of
about 16.2 billion yen (135 million dollars) in the year to
March, missing its earlier prediction of a return to profit.


Previously JAL, Asia's largest carrier, had forecast annual net
earnings of three billion yen.


JAL blamed the worse-than-expected performance on deferred tax
asset adjustments to its balance sheet and an extraordinary loss
resulting from a special early retirement program.


It is a second consecutive year of red ink for JAL, which made a
net loss of 47.2 billion yen in the previous financial year.


But JAL said its full-year revenue rose to about 2.30 trillion
yen, better than its previous projection of almost 2.27 trillion
and up from the previous year's 2.20 trillion.


Operating income is now estimated at 22.9 billion yen, up from an
earlier forecast of 13 billion and much better than the previous
year's loss of 26.83 billion.


The airline will release its finalised results on Wednesday of
next week.


JAL said the revisions to its projections were the result of "a
forecast recovery in profitability primarily in its air transport
business segment, and due to progress in the implementation of
group-wide cost reduction measures."


In February, JAL announced plans to slash 4,300 jobs over three
years as part of a plan aimed at returning the carrier to steady
profits in the face of high oil prices and sluggish demand.


JAL said then that it aimed to reduce its personnel costs by 50
billion yen by March 2008 and boost its workforce productivity by
10 percent.


The move came less than two years after JAL announced it would
axe almost 6,000 positions.


JAL is being squeezed by rising fuel costs and a series of highly
publicised safety scares that sent customers into the arms of
rival All Nippon Airways.


JAL has had a troubled record since its 1987 privatisation and a
complex merger with domestic carrier Japan Air Systems which was
finally completed in 2004 after several years of negotiations and
integration difficulties.


In contrast rival All Nippon Airways said last week its net
profit grew by 22.2 percent to 32.6 billion yen in the year to
March, the second strongest performance in the company's history.

