

The world's top oil exporter Saudi Arabia on Wednesday assured
East Asian consumers they can depend on the Middle East for
sustained and secure supplies of crude.


"I would like to assure you that the importing Asian nations can
depend on West Asia for future security of oil supply," Saudi Oil
Minister Ali al-Nuaimi told the opening of an energy roundtable
of Asian ministers held in Riyadh.


"After all, the majority of world supply and reserves are
concentrated in only a few countries, and most of them are
represented at this roundtable," the Saudi minister said at the
one-day event.


Energy ministers from 17 Asian nations, including the oil-rich
Gulf Cooperation Council states and major consumers like China,
Japan, India and South Korea, are taking part.


The meeting will focus on studying the Asian energy outlook for
supply and demand, and the energy and economic interdependence
between East and West Asia, including investments in the oil
sector.


A first such roundtable meeting was held two years ago in India.


"Our hydrocarbon link is very strong and very important to both
sides. About two thirds of oil exports from West Asia go to East
Asia, and about 70 percent of East Asian crude imports come from
West Asia," Nuaimi stressed.


The energy superpower's oil minister called for dialogue between
producers and consumers of crude in Asia in a bid to boost
cooperation.


"Together, we in West Asia and our partners in East Asia must
strengthen the kind of dialogue we have today and enhance
relations for further cooperation and interdependence," he said.


Japan's minister of economy, trade and industry resources, Akira
Amari, called for energy conservation and for the expansion of
energy production capacity to meet rising demand.


"It is vital that energy production capacity be expanded so as to
respond to the expanding energy demand," said Amari, adding that
both producer and consumer countries should pump in more
investments.


He also called on oil exporters to ensure stable supplies of "oil
and natural gas based on economic rationality, and for
enhancement of market transparency."


Oil consumption in Asia has risen an average of 15 percent a year
over the past five years, the Japanese minister said, adding that
global energy demand is expected to grow by 50 percent, mostly in
Asia, by 2030.


The energy demand in Asia now accounts for nearly 40 percent of
world's total demand and nearly 60 percent of the expected growth
in world energy demand by 2030 is anticipated to come from Asia,
Amari said.


"There is a limit on the supply side. As a result, the supply-
demand relations of oil and natural gas will supposedly continue
to be structurally tight," he said.

