

British Prime Minister Tony Blair defended his record on the 10th
anniversary of his accession to power Wednesday, and urged voters
to back his party in local polls this week, when faces a
drubbing.


The New Labour leader, who is expected to set out next week
exactly when he will step down, listed his government's
achievements and appealed to Scottish voters on the eve of
ballots there and crunch votes elsewhere in Britain.


"I will tell him something about what we have achieved together
over these last 10 years: economic stability...record investment
in public services... more support for pensioners," he told
opposition Conservative party leader David Cameron at his weekly
question-and-answer session with lawmakers.


"I hope that people vote for England staying together and not for
separation tomorrow," he said, when asked about the threat of
Scottish independence posed by the Scottish National Party (SNP).


Voters will go to the polls Thursday across the United Kingdom --
in England and Scotland for local councils, in Wales for the
Welsh assembly and in Scotland for the 129-member Scottish
parliament.


Surveys suggest that New Labour, which took office on May 2, 1997
under Blair's leadership, could lose 600-700 seats overall to the
resurgent Conservatives, whose fortunes have been transformed by
the dynamic Cameron.


Attention is focusing in particular on Scotland, where the SNP
under Alex Salmond is leading New Labour in the polls, and has
promised a referendum on independence if elected.


Analysts warn that a rout in the elections could provide a bad
omen for a feared further slump in Labour's fortunes after the
charismatic Blair stands down, making way for his dour Scottish
finance minister Gordon Brown.


Blair's decade in power -- which followed 18 years in opposition
under Margaret Thatcher and her lacklustre successor John Major
-- has seen a sustained economic boom, helping New Labour to a
record third term in office.


But for many, the turning point in his premiership was Blair's
support for the 2003 United States-led invasion of Iraq, a
decision now opposed by many Britons which threatens to
overshadow the rest of his legacy.


On his anniversary in power Wednesday, Blair again defended his
decision to back US President George W. Bush over Iraq.


"It isn't British or American soldiers that are committing acts
of terrorism in Iraq. It is people going there specifically to
stop that country's democracy working," he told lawmakers.


"Our job is to stand up for Iraq and its democracy."


Blair's last year in office has also been clouded by a "cash-for-
honours" corruption probe, which has raised serious questions
about Blair's pledge, 10 years ago, to head a "whiter-than-white"
government after years of Tory sleaze.


On Tuesday Blair, who has long refused to publicy endorse his
ally-turned-foe Brown, broke his silence and said he would make a
"great prime minister."


But most observers doubt that there has been a genuine thaw
between the two men, long strained by Blair's alleged reneging on
a deal to hand the premiership to Brown after a few years in
power.


Now the Iron Chancellor is finally set to get the job he always
wanted, but for many it is a poisoned chalice, with some analysts
predicting he may well be ousted at the next election by Cameron.


Feared losses in Thursday's polls in Scotland would amount to a
double blow for Labour, which has long seen its traditional
dominance north of the border as support base on which it could
always rely.


For Brown, it would be a hard blow indeed if the SNP comes out on
top in ballots in his native Scotland, just as he prepares for
power in London.

