

Japan midfielder Shunsuke Nakamura, who has helped Celtic to
clinch the Scottish Premier League title for two straight
seasons, says it's about time for him to learn English.


"After coming to Celtic I tried to be recognised in football,
first of all," he said in a recent interview with the Japanese
daily Asahi Shimbun.


"(Now) I feel like getting started in English lessons which I
have been planning to tackle when I can manage it."


Nakamura, 29 next month, moved to Glasgow in 2005 after three
seasons at Serie-A Reggina.


The left-footed dead-ball specialist was voted Player of the Year
by the Scottish Professional Footballers' Association hours after
Celtic's title triumph on April 22 and also won the Goal of the
Season honour.


At the award ceremony, he was seen speaking through an
interpreter.


"Although I don't speak English well, it doesn't cause pressure
or stress. I communicate well with the coach (Gordon Strachan),"
Nakamura told the Asahi at Celtic Park.


"I think I have improved my ability to communicate, not just in
words, while playing overseas," he said.


"I have come to feel free in expressing what kind of person I am.
It is important to have the ability to understand feelings and
intentions of other people. Otherwise, you are not used in
matches."


Nakamura said he wanted to build up his communication with Japan
coach Ivica Osim to the level of his rapport with Strachan.


The Bosnian strategist, who took over from Brazilian legend Zico
after Japan's early exit from the World Cup in Germany, used
Nakamura in his squad for the first time in a 2-0 friendly win
over Peru in March.


Nakamura, the hero of Japan's second straight Asian Cup win in
2004, is widely seen as key for efforts to clinch a third
straight title, a daunting task after Australia joined the
regional confederation.


"If selected for the Asian Cup (finals) in July, I will do my
utmost," he said.


Nakamura, whose future with Celtic has been a subject of
speculation, told the Asahi: "Supporters here are supreme. I
could play better this season than last season.


"I think it will take a lot just to keep up the level of my play.
The pressure will get greater and other teams are getting
stronger. They will be tougher in marking me," he said. "I must
be prepared."

