

The remains of 12 soldiers, including one probable Red Army
officer, have been unearthed at the site of a Soviet war
memorial, whose removal by Estonia has sparked a heated row with
Russia.


"We uncovered 12 coffins in total, all of which had skeletons
inside," Ullar Lanno, director of the Estonian Forensic Medical
Bureau told a press conference, announcing the end of excavations
at the monument site.


Personal effects were found in some of the coffins, Lanno told
AFP.


"In addition to the boot we said we had found Monday, we found
eyeglasses, a pencil and military epaulettes, which indicate one
of the men was an officer," he said.


Six coffins had been uncovered and opened Monday, but the experts
working at the site had not then been able to access the
remaining six, buried in a separate nine-metre (30 foot) long
row.


Excavation work had begun Saturday at the site in central Tallinn
from where the monument to Red Army soldiers who died in World
War II was moved last week, sparking riots here and fury in
Moscow.


The monument of the Bronze Soldier is seen by Russians, including
a large minority living in Estonia, as a sacred memorial to
Soviet soldiers who fought fascism in World War II.


To Estonians it is a painful reminder of the 50-year occupation
by the Soviet Union, which began at the close of the war and only
ended in 1991.


One Russian man was killed and more than 150 people injured,
including 29 police, in two nights of rioting sparked by the
statue's removal in Tallinn last Thursday and Friday.


Anti-Estonian protests have been held in Ukraine and around
Russia.


In Moscow, the Estonian embassy has been under siege for six
days, and the ambassador to Russia was physically attacked while
attending a press conference.


"The situation on the street doesn't really allow us to take much
joy in making these findings" at the excavation site, Lanno said.


The remains have been taken to a laboratory to be cleaned up and
undergo DNA testing, he said.


"All the bones are in good enough condition that we can take DNA
samples from them. Cleaning up the bones will take three to four
days, and we expect to have the DNA results in one week," Lanno
said.


Parallel tests with relatives of the fallen soldiers have to be
done to confirm that the men buried at the site in central
Tallinn are the same as those in Soviet documentation dating from
World War II.


"We have a list of names but the documentation from the Soviet
period is not very clear," Estonian Defence Ministry spokesman
Madis Mikko told AFP.


The names on the list were "clearly Slavic", he said, without
giving details.


Russian experts have not sought to be involved in the
identification process.


"We asked the Russian embassy to be part of the identification
process at every step but they refused. They have said so far
they consider the process unlawful and said they can't send their
representative to something unlawful," Mikko said.


A delegation from the Russian lower house, the Duma, had asked
during a fact- finding mission to Estonia for access to the
excavation site.


"We refused and told them that if the process is unlawful for the
embassy, it is unlawful for them as well," Mikko said.


The head of the visiting Russian delegation, Nikolai Kovalyov, on
Monday accused the Estonians of using heavy machinery at the
excavation site.


Mikko has slammed the Russian claim as "absolutely insulting, and
Lanno said Wednesday it was "untrue."


"We used a small digger to move around one metre of earth, but
after that, the entire process was completed by hand," he said.

