

A candidate in the May 14 mid-term elections was gunned down
Wednesday in the central Philippine province of Cebu, the latest
victim of poll-related violence, police said.


Rogelio Illustrisimo died from his wounds after two gunmen shot
him at close range before escaping, officers said.


Police are investigating a motive for the attack but said it was
apparently connected to local politics.


A man is being held for questioning but it was unclear whether he
was one of the suspects, officers said.


The victim was a candidate for mayor in the town of Santa Fe in
Cebu's Bantayan island and there has been heated rivalry for the
post.


Illustrisimo is the latest victim in escalating poll violence
that has forced President Gloria Arroyo to tap the armed forces
in dismantling what she called "private armies" employed by
politicians.


On Monday, the mayor of the northern city of San Carlos, Julian
Resuello, died at a Manila hospital where he was being treated
after being ambushed at the weekend.


Last week, a town council candidate and a policeman were also
killed in an ambush by suspected political rivals in the town of
Jaen in northern Nueva Ecija province.


Seventeen others were wounded, including three policemen, leading
the election commission to place the province under its security
watch to prevent further bloodshed.


Police on Wednesday said they had arrested the suspected gunmen
in the Resuello killing but outlined that witnesses were afraid
to come forward in the Jaen case.


Presidential spokesman Ignacio Bunye said the government was
alarmed by the spate of brazen attacks.


"The president will not stand idly by as election year thugs try
and ruin the May 14 election," Bunye told reporters. "If putting
police and soldiers on the street to protect our citizens will
help, so be it."


Illustrisimo is the 26th victim of hired guns this election
season, although that is still below the toll for the 2004
presidential elections -- when 148 deaths were recorded -- and
the 2001 mid-term polls with 111 killings.

