

World football's governing body is exploring controversial
changes to the game including a new refereeing system and
possible changes to points scoring, FIFA president Sepp Blatter
said Wednesday.


A controversial refereeing system involving four linesmen will be
tested during either European or World youth tournaments this
summer, FIFA confirmed.


"It's a first agreement with Michel Platini, who has just been
elected president of UEFA. We said that we need to help the
referee, he must be given more assistants," Blatter told
journalists here.


Blatter had indicated in a Swiss magazine interview on Tuesday
that the two extra "linesmen" would have whistles and the power
to intervene directly from the touchline, although the exact
configuration would depend on trials.


Under FIFA's thinking, the two additional linesman would act as
back-ups for the referee, expanding his line of vision especially
in the penalty area or during free kicks, while existing linesmen
would continue to guard the touchline and flag offside.


Nonetheless, Blatter indicated here that the game's top rule-
making body, the International Board, was not too happy with the
idea of four linesmen.


FIFA is adamant that there is scope to try refereeing changes.


"If you want to see if something works, you have to try it out in
field conditions," said spokesman Andreas Herren.


The trial with four linesmen is likely to take place during the
European under 17 football championship in Belgium this summer,
or at the world U17 or under 20 championships in South Korea and
Canada respectively, he added.


Blatter also revealed that football's points scoring system would
come under the spotlight in the autumn at a new strategic
commission assembling players, coaches, referees, clubs, leagues
and federations.


"As for changing the number of points, that's an idea that we'll
take up again in the new commission," he said, while emphasising
that he did not support zero points for a draw.


FIFA appears to have ruled out the use of video footage to help
refereeing decisions during matches, following fresh trials in
Zurich ten days ago.


"Goal line technology and no more, the rest has to be left to the
referees," Blatter said.

