

Oil producers cartel OPEC on Wednesday saw no need to increase
output even as the International Energy Agency (IEA), the
consumers watchdog, stressed the need to pump more crude.


"The market is stable. I think maybe in June we will review the
market to see if we need more oil or not. But I don't think we
need it," Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries secretary
general Abdullah el-Badri said.


"The market is stable and the supply and demand is stable," Badri
told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting for Asian energy
ministers when asked if OPEC needs to pump more crude to ease
prices.


But IEA chief Claude Mandil warned there was a supply shortage
which required producers to hike output.


"At present, there is a lack of crude because we see crude stocks
not increasing whereas they should increase at this time of the
year," Mandil said.


Mandil also called on oil producers to invest in the oil sector
to increase spare production capacity which would eventually ease
pressure on prices.


"We hope that in the medium term, there will be an increase in
investments, both in upstream and downstream, which could ease
the pressure on prices," he said.


"But we think part of the pressure on prices is the result of the
lack of spare capacity," he added.


Badri, however, expected that oil projects will now take longer
to complete because of sky-rocketing cost.


"We have not seen this kind of high cost in the past. Now I think
they will not be shelved, but they will be delayed ... Instead of
finishing them in three to four years, some of them will finish
in six years, some in 10 years," he said.


Badri said that by 2030, OPEC will have to increase its
production capacity by nine million barrels a day and that will
require investments of between 230 and 500 billion US dollars.


He said OPEC is capable of supplying the world with enough oil
for the next 80 years, but they need guarantees for demand.


"We have no problem (of ensuring the supplies). The problem is
the security of demand," he said.


"Because really the concern of most OPEC countries is they don't
want to invest and keep that added capacity, because you have to
spend to maintain that added capacity."

