

The European Commission warned Turkey's powerful military
Wednesday that it could harm the country's hopes of joining
Europe's rich club if it interferes in political affairs.


"The European Union is founded on the principles of liberty,
democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and
the rule of law as well as the supremacy of democratic civilian
power over the military," a spokesman said.


"If a country wants to become a member of the Union it needs to
respect these principles. This is the core of the Copenhagen
criteria of EU accession," the spokesman said, reading a
statement adopted by EU commissioners.


The warning comes amid heightened political tensions over
parliament's attempts to elect a new president in Turkey, which
is striving to join the 27-member bloc.


Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan formally asked the
assembly to set early general elections on June 24 to help end
the crisis.


It came a day after the Constitutional Court annulled Friday's
first-round presidential vote in parliament in which Erdogan's
closest aide, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, was the sole
candidate.


Within hours of the vote the army, which sees itself as guarantor
of Turkish secularism, issued a statement saying it could act to
preserve that secular identity.


More than one million people rallied in Istanbul Sunday to
support secularism and voice their opposition to Gul, once a
member of a party outlawed for Islamist activities and whose wife
wears the Islamic headscarf.


The Commission called -- "regardless of the unfortunate events
leading to the ruling" -- on all parties to respect the court's
decision and that it wants the elections "carried out
democratically without any undue interference".


Turkey was granted candidate status in 2005 to join the European
Union and that process will take at least a decade. The
military's tendency to interfere in the political arena is one
problem frequently highlighted by the EU.


EU leaders established membership criteria at a summit in the
Danish capital Copenhagen in 1993.

