

Opposition politicians in Taiwan expressed concern Wednesday that
a draft amnesty bill which will reduce the jail terms of
thousands of prisoners is politically motivated.


Under the draft bill, which is pending parliament's approval,
those inmates serving jail terms of less than a year would be
eligible for the amnesty, with their initial terms to be reduced
by half, the ministry said.


"A preliminary estimate shows that some 25,000 inmates may have
their terms cut," Deputy Justice Minister Lee Chin-yung told AFP.


If approved, the bill would become effective June 30.


The bill drew a strong backlash from opposition politicians who
claimed the move was aimed at gaining votes in December
parliamentary election and the 2008 presidential race.


"The amnesty bill is not justifiable," said Ko Su-po, legislator
from the leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT) and a member of
parliament's justice committee.


"We suspect that it is part of the DPP's election gambits. They
may hope to use this to gain votes of tens of thousands of the
affected inmates' families. In any neck-on-neck race, their votes
could be crucial," he told AFP on Wednesday.


Sixty percent of 1,074 people recently surveyed by Chinatimes.com
opposed the amnesty -- the third of its kind since 1988  -- and
said it was an attempt to drum up voter support.


President Chen Shui-bian in April ordered the drafting of the
bill for the 20th anniversary of the end of martial law and the
60th anniversary of the so-called 2/28 Massacre when thousands
were slaughtered by Nationalist troops from the mainland.


The survey's findings also indicated that another 55 percent said
they feared it might have a negative impact on social order.


However, Lee said the concerns were unnecessary, citing
statistics of the previous two amnesties.


In the 1991 amnesty, 27,706 inmates were released and 4,490, or
16 percent, were jailed again later.


In contrast, 47 percent of the 31,083 inmates completing their
terms from 1997-2006 were jailed again.

