

World Trade Organisation members are making progress in talks on
cutting fishing subsidies but significant differences remain, not
least between the United States and Japan, trade sources said on
Wednesday.


US ambassador to the WTO, Peter Allgeier on Tuesday presented
Washington's proposals for a total ban on fishing subsidies to
the 150-member global trade body's Rules Negotiating Group, which
is meeting for two days here.


He said urgent action was needed as over 75 percent of the
world's most important fish stocks were already exploited at or
above sustainable levels.


Japan is the world's largest fishing subsidiser, with payments
amounting to 5.3 billion dollars (3.9 billion euros) per year,
according to Washington-based environmental group Oceana.


Tokyo's representative to the WTO talks hailed the US proposal as
timely, but still wanted government subsidies to fishing port
infrastructure to remain exempt, sources said.


"Progress is being made in the group," the sources said, though
they stressed that the issue is of less significance to the fate
of the overall stalled Doha round of trade negotiations than the
field of agriculture.


The US fishing proposals, which were originally unveiled in
March, would outlaw government subsidies for companies that
capture ocean fish commercially.


It provides for periodic reviews of the agreement's
implementation, and would allow the WTO to call in fisheries
experts in case of conflict among its members.


Exemptions to the ban would be allowed for fishing programmes
that do not contribute to overfishing, through practices like
decommissioning trawlers and developing marine biology.


Allgeier acknowledged that differences still remained with Japan,
but that Washington had sought to take Japan's concerns into
account when drafting the proposals.


"Japan still does have different positions ... and we have tried
to listen carefully to some of their concerns," he told
journalists.


Nevertheless, Japan indicated during Tuesday's meeting that it
could accept the proposals on wild capture fisheries and vessel
decommissioning, trade sources said.


It does still support South Korea's call for government subsidies
to fisheries ports to be exempt from any ban.


Seoul, whose fishing subsidies are estimated at 691,000 dollars,
reiterated its opposition to a general subsidies ban, as did
Taiwan, the sources added.


The European Union, the second-largest subsidiser at 3.3 billion
dollars, said it was opposed to the "top-down" approach of the
US, which starts from the principle of a general prohibition and
then defines specific exemptions.


Instead they prefer a "bottom-up" approach which works in the
opposite fashion, defining exceptions and then arriving at a
general stance.


China, which ranks third in fishing subsidies at 3.1 billion
dollars, said the US proposal pointed at the right direction, the
sources said.

