

Shareholders with a controlling voting stake in Dow Jones and
Company, owner of the Wall Street Journal, will oppose a 5.0
-billion-dollar bid for the group by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.,
the Journal reported Wednesday.


It said a representative of the Bancroft family has told the
board at Dow Jones there were sufficent shareholders with voting
power to thwart a takeover offer for the publisher, launched by
News Corp. on Tuesday.


Widely spread out, the Bancroft family holds 24 percent of the
capital but more than 62 percent of the vote in Dow Jones.


But the front-page article in the European edition of the Journal
added: "It isn't clear if the family is opposed to an offer from
News Corp.'s Rupert Murdoch or if it is simply trying to get Mr.
Murdoch and other potential bidders to sweeten their offers."


The move by Murdoch, the Australian-born media baron, sparked a
rally on Tuesday in other newspaper stocks and offered hints of a
further shakeup in an industry in turmoil.


News Corp. said in a statement Tuesday it had made "a friendly
offer" to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Dow Jones for
60 dollars each in cash, or in a combination of cash and stock.


Murdoch, who is chairman and chief executive of News Corp., said
in an interview on his Fox News channel he wants the prize of the
Wall Street Journal: "We feel this is the greatest newspaper in
America. One of the greatest in the world."


"It has great journalists which deserve, I think, a much wider
audience. We feel that with coming online and offline, there is a
great deal to be done here," added Murdoch.


Murdoch, who is now a US citizen and has reincorporated the group
in the United States, said the bid represented "a big, generous
offer."


Dow Jones said simply its board of directors and trustees of the
Bancroft family "are evaluating the proposal."


The bid would be a 63 percent premium to the most recent share
price for the company that publishes the Wall Street Journal and
its international and online editions and has other media
interests worldwide.


Dow Jones shares surged 55 percent to close at 56.20, even though
the closing price was below the takeover offer of 60 dollars per
share.


Shares in the New York Times Co. meanwhile rallied 6.5 percent to
24.93 and McClatchy Newspapers added 2.0 percent to 29.48 in New
York on Tuesday.


As the potential acquirer, News Corp. shares fell 1.01 dollars to
22.99.


With his News Corp. umbrella, Murdoch controls the Fox television
and film studios, and BSkyB in Britain. In newspapers, the
company owns British-based dailies including The Sun and The
Times, as well as the New York Post and The Australian. In 2005
he also bought the MySpace social networking website.


Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute,
said the Journal is "a trophy property and he (Murdoch) likes to
have those things."


Edmonds said the acquisition of the Journal would also mesh well
with Murdoch's plans to launch a TV business channel.


The Journal reported that the offer "is almost certain to spark
controversy" because Murdoch is best known in the US for his
control of the tabloid New York Post and Fox News.


But Edmonds said similar concerns raised when Murdoch acquired
The Times of London proved to be unfounded.


"When he bought The Times in London there was a concern it would
go downmarket and trashy," Edmonds said. "Neither of those things
happened."


Edmonds said that the offer is "eyecatching" because of its size.


"It may not be an offer they can't refuse, but it is hard to
resist," Edmonds said.


Indeed if the Bancrofts ignore the bid, public shareholders will
almost certainly sue the company, said Paul Lapides, director of
the Corporate Governance Center at Georgia's Kennesaw State
University.


The bid "may be a tough thing for them to turn down," added
Charles Elson, a corporate-governance expert at the University of
Delaware.


The move comes at a time of turmoil in the US newspaper industry,
with circulation slipping as more consumers turn to the Internet
and other media.


A survey this week showed US daily newspaper circulation is down
2.1 percent from a year ago.


Fewer than half of all US adults currently read a daily
newspaper, a far cry from 80.8 percent in 1964.


The Wall Street Journal is the second biggest US daily, and its
circulation edged up slightly over the past year to just over two
million.


Dow Jones traces its history back to 1882 when Charles Henry Dow
and others started producing hand-written news bulletins in the
Wall Street area. It has long been under the control of the
Bancrofts, the descendants of Charles Barron, who bought the
company in 1902.


The company created the first Dow Jones stock index in 1884,
which remains a key benchmark for Wall Street.

