

Estonia's president and prime minister on Wednesday condemned
Russia's campaign against their country, as the diplomatic crisis
over the removal of a Soviet war memorial continued to escalate.


President Toomas Hendrik Ilves called on Russia to "remain
civilised", while Prime Minister Andrus Ansip called on the
European Union to come to its aid.


"It is not customary in Europe to demand the resignation of the
democratically elected government of another sovereign country,"
said President Ilves.


"It is not customary in Europe to use computers belonging to
public institutions for cyber-attacks against another country's
public institutions.


"In Europe, as well as in the rest of the civilised world, it is
not considered possible to violate the Vienna Convention (on
diplomatic relations).


"It is customary in Europe that differences, which do now and
then occur between states, are solved by diplomats and
politicians, not on the streets or by computer attacks," Ilves
said.


Estonia's leadership has claimed that cyber-attacks that forced
government websites to shut down temporarily came from computers
in the Russian administration, including the office of President
Vladimir Putin.


"Those are the ways of other countries, somewhere else, not in
Europe," said Ilves.


Relations between the two countries deteriorated sharply last
week when youths, many from Estonia's substantial Russian
minority, rioted in Tallinn over the removal of a monument to Red
Army soldiers who fell in World War II.


Russians see the statue as a sacred memorial to the millions of
Soviet soldiers who died defeating fascism, while Estonians see
it as a painful reminder of their country's 50-year annexation by
the USSR.


In Moscow, family members of staff working at Estonia's embassy
were evacuated Wednesday as a six-day siege of the compound
continued.


Members of the Kremlin-backed Nashi (Ours) youth group tried to
assault Estonian ambassador Marina Kaljurand during a press
conference.


In a speech to parliament on Wednesday, Ansip called for a swift
and decisive response from the EU to Russia's offensive.


Citing the growing list of incidents, Ansip told deputies: "(A)ll
indicate that our sovereign state is under heavy attack.


"We have turned to the European Union and we ask them to take
immediate action. Attacking one member state means an attack
against the entire European Union.


"We expect from the European Union a straightforward reaction to
the well- coordinated attacks of Russia," he added.


On Monday, a Russian parliamentary delegation in Tallinn on a
fact-finding mission urged Ansip to quit over the removal of the
Bronze Soldier memorial.

