

Six Australians on death row for trying to smuggle heroin out of
Bali made appeals in Indonesian courts on Wednesday against their
sentences.


Initially handcuffed but looking relaxed, three members of the
"Bali Nine" appeared in a court on the resort island to argue
against their sentence, which they said had been a legal error.


Lawyer Erwin Siregar said the Supreme Court had erred in ordering
their execution, which prosecutors had not recommended to the
trial court and which ignored lower court decisions.


Siregar later told reporters that he would ask the Australian
government to find an expert witness from Australia or the US to
testify against capital punishment as part of the review of their
cases.


Si Yi Chen, Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen and Matthew Norman were arrested
in a hotel room in Bali with a small quantity of heroin in 2005,
shortly after others in the group were arrested at the island's
airport.


The trio were found guilty of planning to courier narcotics into
Australia and sentenced to life in prison. An initial High Court
appeal reduced their sentences to 20 years but a Supreme Court
ruling later ordered their execution.


"At the District Court and the High Court, prosecutors did not
recommend the death penalty, (so) why did the Supreme Court
decide on a death penalty?" said Siregar.


Meanwhile, in Jakarta, lawyers for three other members of the
"Bali Nine" were arguing that the death penalty was
unconstitutional in drugs cases.


Several experts gave evidence in the Constitutional Court against
the death penalty, saying Indonesia's constitution guaranteed
that life was a basic human right.


Courier Scott Rush had his sentence changed from prison to death
by firing squad in an appeal, while Andrew Chan and Myuran
Sukumaran were sentenced to die after their conviction for being
the "Bali Nine" ringleaders.


They were not present in court in the capital on Wednesday for
the hearing.


Three others are serving prison sentences ranging from life to 20
years for their roles in the plot.


The "Bali Nine" are among a number of Australians who have faced
drugs charges in Indonesia in recent years, including former
beauty student Schapelle Corby, who was convicted and jailed for
trafficking marijuana into Bali.

