

Entente Setif of Algeria have suffered a severe blow ahead of the
Arab Champions League final against Al-Faycali of Jordan here on
Thursday.


An injury rules star striker Issad Bourahli out of the first leg
and he could also miss the return match in Amman on May 17 when
the destiny of the  two- million-dollar first prize will be
decided.


Entente failed to score in home and away group matches against
Faycali and were banking on the experience and guile of the local
idol whose predatory instincts have earned the nickname "fox of
the penalty box".


The "Black Eagles" from the university city 300 kilometres east
of Algiers were held 0-0 at home by Faycali in the final round of
group matches after failing 1-0 in the capital of Jordan.


Setif and Faycali managed just four goals each in six mini-league
matches before winning semi-finals thrillers as they try to
emulate CS Sfaxien of Tunisia, Al- Ittihad Jeddah of Saudi Arabia
and Raja Casablanca of Morocco.


Faycali were dismissed as no-hopers before hosting five-time
African Champions League holders Zamalek of Egypt and a goalless
deadlock in Amman served only to strengthen this view.


But first-half goals by Khaled Saad and Haider Amine in Cairo
stunned the "White Knights", whose sole strike from Amr Zaki came
far too late to threaten the Jordanians.


Setif returned from Saudi Arabia trailing Al-Ahly Jeddah 1-0 and
Al-Yacine Derradj brought the clubs level on aggregate five
minutes into the second half at the 30,000-seat May 8 Stadium in
the heart of the city.


And it was Ivory Coast-born Remy Adico who settled the outcome,
scoring two minutes from full-time to send Setif supporters into
ecstasy as they chase a first major international title in two
decades.


Entente trounced Iwuanyanwu Nationale of Nigeria 4-1 on aggregate
to emerge as surprise 1988 winners of the African Champions
League, the symbol of club supremacy on the continent.


The Algerians are also well placed to win the national
championship, leading JSM Bejaia by two points with a match in
hand entering the closing stages of the 30-round title race.


Adico is one of three "imports" in the Setif squad alongside
Nigerian Rafiu Salahudeen and Souleymane Keita from Senegal while
the Algerian stars include goalkeeper Samir Hadjaoui, defender
Adel Maiza and midfielder Lazhar Aissa.

