

British Prime Minister Tony Blair called for the release of
kidnapped journalist Alan Johnston and Israeli soldier Gilad
Shalit Wednesday, saying it would make a "big difference" in the
Middle East.


Blair was asked during his weekly question-and-answer session
with lawmakers at the House of Commons whether he would use his
final weeks in office to secure the pair's freedom.


He said he was "sorry" that both men were still being held. "I
fully agree that their release would make a big difference in the
Middle East," Blair added.


"In respect of Alan Johnston, there is no conceivable reason for
him to be kept, he was a journalist doing his job out there.


"There have also been many calls from Palestinian leaders and
Palestinian journalists for his release and we continue to do
everything we can to facilitate that."


He added that freeing Shalit "would allow a whole series of
things to happen, not least releases of Palestinian prisoners and
other things that would allow us to move this situation forward."


Blair added: "There continues to nothing more urgent than the
Middle East."


BBC correspondent Johnston was captured at gunpoint in Gaza City
on March 12 but is thought to be in good health.


The identity of the group which seized him is not clear, but
journalists and aid workers in the area are regularly abducted in
order to lever concessions from the authorities.


Shalit, who is also still believed to be alive, was seized last
June 25 after Palestinian militants attacked an army border post.


His capture sparked an Israeli air and ground offensive against
the Gaza Strip which killed several hundred Palestinians before a
ceasefire came into force in November.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said at the end of last month
that he was confident he would be released soon.


Blair is expected to announce next week that he will step down
within a couple of months. It is thought that he will try to
remain involved in Middle East politics after leaving office.

