

Turkish shares rose Wednesday after the Islamist-rooted
government pushed for snap elections and a comprehensive set of
reforms to resolve a crisis over presidential elections.


But analysts forecast flat trading due to investor caution over
lingering uncertainty on the political course to be taken until
legislative elections.


The national index of the Istanbul stock exchange gained 1,021.51
points, or 2.35 percent, to close the morning session at 44,551
points compared to Tuesday's closing of 43,529.5.


The lira, which had dropped as low as 1.39 to the dollar late
Tuesday, was trading at 1.357.


One day after the constitutional court annuled a first-round vote
in parliament to elect the next president, Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's government on Wednesday formally applied to
parliament to bring legislative elections forward to June 24.


The parliamentary vote -- in which Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul,
a former Islamist, was the sole candidate -- raised tension with
the army, which threatened last week to intervene to protect the
country's secular order.


"The stock exchange was responding to the court decision that
came after it closed for the day, but now we have come to a very
different point where there is a lot of uncertainty as to what
will happen until the early elections," Haluk Burumcekci, chief
economist at Fortis Bank, told AFP.


He was referring to government plans to push through parliament a
set of constitutional reforms, including one that provides for a
two-round vote by popular suffrage to elect the president.


It is not yet clear whether the government can obtain enough
opposition support to push constitutional amendments through
parliament, or whether it will have time to undertake such
reforms before parliamentary polls.


"Markets welcomed the early elections, but it does not seem to be
a radical solution. We are headed for a period that will not be
so smooth," Burumcekci said.


Gulay Girgin, an analyst from Oyak Investment, said markets would
remain cautious.


"The court decision decreased tensions, but we are now in a wait-
and-see period. There is still a lot of uncertainty," she said.
"We are advising investors not to purchase and to be very
cautious."

