

Swedish entrant Victory Challenge may ultimately not snaffle the
Louis-Vuitton Cup for the right to face off against holders
Alinghi in the America's Cup, but they have flown the flag for
equal rights with Spaniard Alicia Ageno on their navigation
payroll.


The 39-year-old is the first Spanish woman to play such a
frontline role in the competition and is relishing her challenge,
despite identifying "perhaps a little reticence when it comes to
taking on a woman" to brave the waters off the Spanish east
coast.


Victory Challenge currently stand midway down the rankings and a
date with Alinghi looks a forlorn hope. But Ageno, navigator on
the second boat, is giving it her best shot to show that she
fully merits her place.


"On land, I analyse the data we collect when we are navigating. I
also deal with the on-board programmes we need to make analyses.


"Then there's (Argentine first boat navigator) Santiago Lange,
who I'd already sailed with, who called me in to work with
Victory," Ageno explained Wednesday.


Of the other 11 teams fighting it out off the eastern seaboard
only Areva Challenge can also boast female representation in the
shape of its US participants Katie Pettibone and Dawn Riley.


Ageno says it's no surprise that only a select few women have
made it to this level to date.


"I guess in a competition like the America's Cup experience is
indispensable and in general in yachting there are not that many
women out there dedicating 100 percent of their time to it.


"Maybe there's also a little bit more reticence right now when it
comes to taking on a woman. For women it's more difficult to
reconcile family life with such exacting work regarding
timetables and the travel involved.


"But I think there are a lot of positions on a boat where a
knowledgeable woman with experience can be just as effective as a
man," Ageno asserted.


Ageno said the 1995 "Mighty Mary" challenge, skippered by Riley
and which comprised 16 women and just one male teammate, was
proof that women can mix it at this level.


"It was a great idea but it should have been followed up in later
editions. If the adventure had been been followed up I am sure we
would have seen very positive developments."

