

A helicopter carrying four people including a wealthy supporter
of Chelsea football club went missing overnight after leaving
Liverpool following a Champions League match there, spokesmen
said.


Chelsea Football Club said none of its officials was involved,
while businessman Phillip Carter was named as among the missing.


Carter is the head of training company Carter & Carter. Faye
Adkin of the firm said the helicopter was carrying Carter, the
pilot and two or three passengers. "At this moment we are praying
and hoping for the best," she said.


Rescue helicopters were involved in searching near Peterborough,
about 100 miles (160 kilometres) north of London, where the
aircraft was due to have landed in the early hours.


"We are investigating possible links to the Liverpool v Chelsea
football match but have not established anything so far," said a
police spokesman, after the helicopter went missing after taking
off from Liverpool late Tuesday.


The helicopter took off from the northwestern English city's John
Lennon Airport around 11:00 pm (2200 GMT) Wednesday, bound for
Peterborough, north of London, but had then disappeared from
radar screens, police said.


"Details are sketchy at the moment. The helicopter, we believe,
had about four or five people on board and was a twin-engine
Squirrel," said a spokeswoman.


"It appears to have disappeared off the radar. At the moment we
are trying to find out more. The best case scenario is that it
has made an emergency landing somewhere."


A spokeswoman for the local Cambridgeshire police said they were
called shortly before 1.45 am amid reports that it had failed to
land at a private residence at Thornhaugh, Cambridgeshire.


"Police are currently searching for a helicopter which has gone
missing in an area north of Peterborough," she said.


Search and rescue helicopters and police patrols working in the
area, she added, saying that the helicopter's last known contact
was at 12:45 am.


Robin Tudor, head of communications at Liverpool John Lennon
Airport, said the flight was "likely" to have been carrying
football fans from Anfield.


"All I can confirm is that a helicopter left at 11.30 pm with
four people on board.


"I think it is a fair assumption that the flight was linked in
some way to the Champions League semi-final at Anfield. It is
likely, but I don't have any information about the purpose of
their trip," he said.

