

Bangladeshi police investigating bomb attacks by suspected
Islamic extremists at three railway stations said Wednesday they
were hunting for a woman suspect.


Witnesses at a station in the southeastern port of Chittagong
said they had seen a woman give a bag to a rickshaw puller. The
bag exploded, leaving the man with minor injuries.


"We are looking for this woman who gave this bag to the rickshaw
puller," said investigating officer Abul Kalam Azad.


The three small bombs exploded early Tuesday in the capital
Dhaka, Chittagong and the northern town of Sylhet.


Leaflets found nearby in the name of "Zadid (New) Al-Qaeda," a
previously unheard of group, contained threats against the
minority Muslim Ahmadiya community.


But there has been no formal claim of responsibility for the
attacks, the police official said.


Ahmadiyas, who number around 100,000 in Bangladesh, break sharply
with mainstream Islam because they do not believe that Mohammad
was the last prophet.


Extremists in the majority Sunni community have previously
targeted the Ahmadiayas and called on the government to pass a
law declaring them "non- Muslim."


A report by the New York-based group Human Rights Watch in 2005
documented a "campaign of violence, harassment and intimidation"
by the Khatme Nabuwat (KN) -- an umbrella group of Sunni Muslim
extremists.


The leaflets also made death threats against workers at non-
governmental organistaions (NGOs).


A string of unexplained bombings in 2004 and early 2005 included
two attacks on the offices of NGOs in northern Bangladesh. Other
targets included cinemas and cultural events.


A subsequent bombing campaign in August 2005 by the outlawed
Jamayetul Mujahideen, to impose strict Islamic law in the
majority Muslim but officially secular country, led to the
execution in March of six of the organisation's leaders.


The campaign prompted the then government to admit it had
underestimated the threat from Islamic extremists.


Bangladesh has been under a state of emergency since January when
its military- backed interim government came to power.

