

Estonia closed its consulate in Moscow on Wednesday after pro-
Kremlin youth activists blocked diplomats and scuffled with the
ambassador's bodyguards in protest at the relocation of a Soviet
war memorial in the Baltic state's capital Tallinn.


"The consulate's business is stopped and we will not give visas
until the situation is normalised around the embassy," Ambassador
Marina Kaljurand told journalists shortly after the Nashi (Ours)
youth group tried to disrupt her press conference.


Consulates in Pskov and Saint Petersburg will remain open for the
time being, she said.


Kaljurand said her bodyguards were forced to use tear gas after
members of the Kremlin-backed Nashi youth group broke into the
newspaper offices where she was holding the press conference.


"There was an attack aimed at me, but no one got to me," she
said. "There was a fight between my guards and activists from the
Nashi organisation and the guards had to use gas."


Kaljurand, who said that consulates in two other Russian cities
remain open, accused the authorities of failing "to guarantee the
security of the embassy" as required under international
conventions.


An AFP reporter saw approximately 30 youths force their way into
the newspaper offices, shouting: "Fascist Estonia!"


Scuffles started and some form of tear gas was released, driving
out those in the room.


Outside, a group of youths from another government-backed group,
Mestny, surrounded the ambassador's parked car and tore off its
ceremonial flag. Police did not intervene.


Dozens of youths from Nashi and Young Guard were spending a sixth
day camped outside the embassy.


About 30 Nashi members on Wednesday briefly prevented the arrival
of a Swedish diplomatic vehicle at the embassy until police
pushed them aside, an AFP correspondent said. The youths again
attempted to block the Swedish embassy car as it left.


Shortly after, an unmarked car was used to hinder the exit of an
Estonian diplomatic vehicle, bearing the Baltic republic's
tricolour flag. Riot police dragged the driver from the car and
forced him into a police vehicle, an AFP correspondent said.


On Tuesday the embassy's flag was pulled down.


Estonia's President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has described the
embassy protest as "psycho-terror."


The activists say they are protesting against Estonia's
relocation of the Bronze Soldier World War II monument from
central Tallinn to a military cemetery.


The Estonian government has called for help from the rest of the
European Union and claims that the Russian authorities are
fomenting unrest in the former Soviet republic.


Many Estonians saw the central location for the monument as a
symbol of Soviet occupation, which lasted five decades after the
Red Army drove Nazi Germany's army out of the Baltics.

