

Turkish shares rose 1.6 percent Wednesday after the Islamist-
rooted government pushed for snap elections and a comprehensive
set of reforms to resolve a crisis over presidential elections.


But analysts forecast cautious trading due to uncertainty over
the political course to be taken until legislative elections.


The national index of the Istanbul stock exchange gained 726.64
points, or 1.67 percent, to close the day at 44,256.13 points,
compared to Tuesday's closing of 43,529.5.


The Turkish lira, which had dropped as low as 1.39 to the dollar,
was trading at 1.3617 on Wednesday.


One day after the constitutional court annuled a first-round vote
in parliament to elect the next president, Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's government on Wednesday formally applied to
parliament to bring legislative elections forward to June 24.


The parliamentary vote -- in which Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul,
a former Islamist, is the sole candidate -- had raised tensions
with the army, which threatened last week to intervene to protect
the country's secular order.


"The stock exchange was responding to the court decision that
came after it closed for the day (Tuesday), but now we have come
to a very different point where there is a lot of uncertainty as
to what will happen until the early elections," Haluk Burumcekci,
chief economist at Fortis Bank, told AFP.


He was referring to government plans to push through parliament a
set of constitutional reforms, including one that provides for a
two-round vote by popular suffrage to elect the president.


It is not yet clear whether the government can obtain enough
support to push constitutional amendments through parliament, or
whether it will have time to undertake such reforms before the
polls.


"Markets welcomed the early elections, but it does not seem to be
a radical solution. We are headed for a period that will not be
so smooth," Burumcekci said.


Gulay Girgin, an analyst from Oyak Investment, said markets would
remain cautious.


"The court decision decreased tensions, but we are now in a wait-
and-see period. There is still a lot of uncertainty," she said.
"We are advising investors not to purchase and to be very
cautious."


Serhan Cevik, an economist at Morgan Stanley, said the current
calm was not sustainable as investors could not see the political
landscape clearly.


"The political outlook we had so far suddenly changed in the past
two days," he told the NTV news channel. "Markets will
fluctuate."


Recent polls tipped Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP)
to come out ahead in the next elections, originally scheduled for
November 4, but investors fear the AKP may lose votes after the
recent crisis and force Turkey into a less stable coalition
government.


The AKP is credited with helping the country to stage an
impressive economic recovery since coming to power in 2002,
slashing chronic inflation and attracting record foreign
investment.


The government also launched membership talks with the European
Union and followed a set of strict structural reforms demanded by
the International Monetary Fund.

