

A demand by China, India and Brazil that rich nations accept they
are mainly responsible for global warming has held up progress at
a key UN climate change conference here, delegates said
Wednesday.


The three nations' insistence since the talks started on Monday
that the developed world recognise its dominant role in climate
change has stolen precious time meant for debate on how best to
tackle global warming, they said.


"Progress is slow," one delegate from a European nation, who
asked not to be identified, told AFP.


"Brazil, India and China are trying to put on the shoulders of
industrialised nations the historic responsibility for greenhouse
gas emissions, in order to clear their own emissions (of blame)
and to protect themselves in any discussion."


At least 400 scientists and experts from about 120 countries are
attending the week-long session of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC), the UN's leading authority on global
warming.


Their report, expected to be released on Friday after the closed-
door meeting ends, aims to lay out ways to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and prevent a climate catastrophe without seriously
hurting the global economy.


But China has also insisted on specific figures, which lay the
blame for global warming on rich nations, be inserted into the
conclusions, according to documents obtained by AFP.


Developed countries should formally recognise they were
responsible for 95 percent of greenhouse gas emissions from the
pre-industrial era to 1950, and for 77 percent from 1950 to 2000,
according to China's submission to the IPCC.


China also rejected phrasing that places the onus on the entire
world to deal with climate change, instead urging the focus to be
on rich nations whose per capita emissions of greenhouse gases
are far higher than those of the developing world.


Various delegates told AFP the demands, made by China but backed
by India, Brazil and other developing countries, were not
relevant to this week's meeting because it was meant to
specifically look at ways to mitigate climate change.


"This is not the point of this meeting. We are meant to be
looking to the future," the European delegate who did not want to
be named said.


Another sticking point has been China's insistence that cutting
greenhouse gases will cost more to the global economy than the
IPCC scientists had estimated, according to the Chinese
submission and other sources at the conference.


One of the French delegates, Renaud Crassous, said China was
proving to be a dominant force in this week's talks, while others
said the United States -- the world's biggest emitter of
greenhouse gases -- was remaining low key.


"China is distrustful regarding everything that could draw a
conclusion that it is easy to reduce emissions," Crassous said.


Another delegate from the West, who also asked not to be
identified, said the positions put forward by China, India and
Brazil were part of a long-term negotiating strategy by the
world's three most powerful developing nations.


They want to set the stage for other major international
political events this year, such as the G8 leaders' summit in
June in Germany and a United Nations climate change conference in
Bali in December.


The developing world's big three want to make sure the pressure
is on rich nations at these events to take the leading role in
tackling global warming, the delegate from the West said.


One other source at this week's talks said China had been so
aggressive in an effort to defend itself against rising criticism
about its dramatic increase in greenhouse gas output over recent
years.


China will overtake the United States as the world's biggest
emitter of greenhouse gases sometime before 2010, according to
the International Energy Agency.


"China have been cornered and they've hit back," the source said.

