

Veteran British yachtsman Tony Bullimore got off to a flying
start on the first day of his bid to break the around-the-world
solo sailing record, his support team said Wednesday.


Bullimore covered 260 nautical miles from the start in Tasmania
in the first 16 hours and looked as though he could break through
the 400-mile mark in the first 24 hours, race coordinator John
Brierley said.


To set a new record of 70 days for the 27,000-nautical-mile
circumnavigation of the globe Bullimore and his 31-metre
(102-foot) catamaran, the Doha 2006, will have to average about
386 nautical miles a day.


"He has set a great pace and looks like cracking the 400-mile
mark on his first day, which is phenomenal," Brierley said.


Wind gusts up to 45 knots were recorded during his first night at
sea, but Brierley said the yachtsman would thrive in the
conditions.


Bullimore famously survived for five days in the hull of his
capsized yacht in the freezing Southern Ocean during the Vendee
Globe around-the-world race in 1997.


"Tony will handle the conditions and excel in the heavier weather
because he is a very tenacious, capable and experienced heavy-
weather sailor," said Brierley.


Bullimore had reported that the Tasman Sea was choppy but the
boat was "taking it in her stride".


Weather router Lee Bruce has advised Bullimore to expect 25-knot
winds for the next four days.


Bullimore was headed straight down into the Southern Ocean, where
the westerly winds in the Roaring Forties latitudes will push him
across the first 5,000-mile stage to Cape Horn.


He will then follow the South American coast northwards and
across the Equator to round the Portuguese island of Flores, in
the Azores group, before returning southwards to the Cape of Good
Hope and back to the Tasmanian capital, Hobart.


The current record for the non-stop, around-the-world solo trip
is 71 days, 14 hours, 18 minutes and 33 seconds, set by Britain's
Dame Ellen MacArthur in 2005.


Bullimore's course has been sanctioned by the World Sailing Speed
Record Council, and the distance is exactly the same as if he
started from Ushant on the north west tip of France, where
MacArthur began her record run.

