

Afghan and UN investigations found that about 50 civilians,
including many women and children, were killed in weekend
fighting in western Afghanistan, officials said Wednesday.


The US-led coalition has said 136 Taliban fighters were killed in
the clashes, that included bombing raids, with militants in the
western province of Herat on Friday and Sunday.


A United Nations investigation had so far found that 49 civilians
were killed in the fighting in Shindand district, spokesman
Adrian Edwards said.


Police found 51 were dead, western Afghanistan spokesman
Akramudin Yawar told AFP.


"The figures I have so far of the civilians killed in the three-
day operation in Shindand is that 51 civilians were killed
including 18 women and a number of children. I don't have the
exact figures for children," he said.


A team appointed by provincial governor Sayed Hussain Anwari
found 42 civilians were killed and 55 were wounded, said the
governor's spokeswoman Farzana Ahmadi.


The investigation team appointed by Anwari and made up of
councillors and other provincial authorities also found that
1,600 families had fled the area because of the fighting and 100
houses were damaged or destroyed, she said.


The interior ministry in the capital, Kabul, said its own team
which would include two generals had yet to leave for Shindand to
investigate.


The figures are the highest for civilians killed in military
operations in Afghanistan in months.


About 1,000 angry protesters claimed civilians were among the
dead in a demonstration on Monday in which government offices in
Shindand district centre were torched.


The coalition said that US Special Forces, Afghan soldiers and
other coalition members had responded to an attack in Zerkoh
Friday by more than 70 Taliban fighters with ground and air fire.


The clashes left 49 Taliban and a US soldier dead, it said.


On Sunday the security forces attacked Taliban fighting
positions, including with bombing raids. Another 87 Taliban
fighters were killed during the 14-hour engagement, it said.


A spokesman for the US Central Command told AFP Tuesday it had
received no reports of civilian casualties in the fighting.


"Every precaution was taken to prevent injury to Afghan civilians
during both battles, and no civilian casualties were reported,"
said Major David Small.


"If any reports are made through official channels, they will be
investigated," he said, adding that to his knowledge no
investigation into alleged civilian deaths was under way.


President Hamid Karzai said in Kabul Wednesday civilians
casualties in the military operations were unacceptable.

