

British pharmacy giant Alliance Boots, which has agreed to a
takeover from US private equity group KKR, said Wednesday that
profits rose strongly during its fiscal year owing to good
trading conditions.


Net profit jumped 11.2 percent to 467 million pounds (687 million
euros, 931 million dollars) in the group's financial year that
ended March 31, 2007, compared with 419 million in the previous
year.


Revenue rose 3.6 percent to 14.608 billion pounds.


"We have delivered a strong financial performance while executing
one of the biggest mergers undertaken in the UK," chief executive
Richard Baker said in the earnings release.


Alliance Boots was created last year by the British merger of
pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots.


Baker added: "The results reaffirm our belief that in Alliance
Boots we have created a leading international pharmacy-led health
and beauty group with attractive prospects and opportunities."


The pharmacy group said it expected the "good" trading
performance it saw in 2006-2007 to continue in the current
financial year -- and was "on track" to deliver promised merger
cost savings.


Last week, Alliance Boots agreed to the KKR takeover which valued
Europe's biggest pharmacy chain at 11.0 billion pounds (16.2
billion euros, 22 billion dollars).


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts emerged as winner after battling against
a rival consortium led by British private equity group Terra
Firma to buy Alliance Boots.


KKR has been joined in its bid by the executive deputy chairman
of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina -- who holds 15.05 percent of
the pharmacy group.


A takeover by KKR, providing it is accepted by Alliance Boots
shareholders, would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


The KKR consortium also said last week that it owned 29.3 percent
of issued capital in Alliance Boots.


In late morning deals on Wednesday, the group's share price rose
0.13 percent to 1,122 pence in reaction to the profits hike.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares showed a gain of 0.67
percent at 6,462.90 points.


A successful buyout would make Alliance Boots the first company
to fall into private hands while being listed on London's
prestigious FTSE 100.

