

Taiwan's opposition leader Ma Ying-jeou was nominated Wednesday
by his Kuomintang party to run for the 2008 presidential election
and pledged to improve economic ties with China.


"This is a historical moment. I hereby announce that Mr. Ma Ying-
jeou was nominated the presidential candidate at a meeting of the
party's Central Standing Committee," party chairman Wu Po-hsiung
told reporters.


Ma's nomination for the election, due in March, is expected to be
endorsed by the party congress to be held on June 24, party
officials said.


Ma vowed to make up ground on the ruling Democratic Progressive
Party, which leans towards independence for Taiwan from China.
The Kuomintang favours improved ties with Beijing.


"This will be a historical mission. It is neither for myself nor
my family. I am exploring prospects to better Taiwan's future,"
he said.


Ma pledged to revive the island's economy, blaming the ruling
party's policies for a slowdown.


"Over the past seven years, almost every sector here has felt the
gravest ever impact ... the people on grassroot level have
suffered the most," he said.


Moves to allow Chinese tourists to visit Taiwan would be
accelerated to boost Taiwan's economy, he said.


Talks between Taipei and Beijing on lifting a ban on Chinese
tourists have gone on for many months, but progress has been
slow.


Ma also promised to ease restrictions on Taiwanese investment
into China.


He quit as Kuomintang's chairman in February after he was
indicted on corruption charges.


He allegedly misused some 11 million Taiwan dollars (333,330 US)
in expense accounts during his tenure as mayor of the capital,
Taipei, from 1998 to 2006.


The former justice minister has denied the charges at his trial,
which began in April.


He was elected Kuomintang chairman in July 2005 and oversaw the
party's landslide victory in local elections five months later,
before resigning.


President Chen Shui-bian of the Democratic Progressive Party won
elections in 2000 and 2004, but his popularity has waned and he
has been hit by a series of corruption scandals.


China considers Taiwan part of its territory, to be retaken by
force if necessary, following their split in 1949 after a civil
war.

