

Movie-goers in Japan are being warned that the Oscar-nominated
Hollywood movie "Babel" could make them feel sick after several
people complained of nausea.


A total of 16 people have complained of feeling ill while
watching the movie since it was released across Japan on
Saturday, distributor Gaga Communications Inc. said Wednesday.


Many of them felt sick during a scene in which Japanese actress
Rinko Kikuchi, playing a deaf high-school girl, dances in a club
with flashing and swirling strobe lights for a couple of minutes.


The warning has been posted in newspapers and at 308 cinemas
screening the movie as well as on the film's official website,
Gaga spokeswoman Aimi Ichikawa said.


"We have yet to determine the cause of the sick feelings. The
affected people were able to go home without help after taking a
rest," Ichikawa said.


"There are various scenes which have affected viewers, including
one which sways when Kikuchi and her friends get drunk," she
said. "It may be a feeling similar to sea sickness. Some people
have also reacted to scenes with loud sounds."


The film, directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and starring
Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett, is a complex tale about cultural
and emotional clashes in today's globalised world shot in several
countries and five languages.


It has been given a big buildup in Japan since Kikuchi -- who was
relatively unknown in her home country -- was nominated for the
best supporting actress Oscar.


The cinema sickness recalled an incident in December, 1997, in
which hundreds of children across Japan were taken to hospitals
with convulsions after watching a television cartoon based on
Nintendo's "Pocket Monsters."


The seizures were blamed on a scene depicting an explosion
followed by five seconds of flashing red lights from the
sparkling eyes of popular animated character "Pikachu."


At that time, some medical experts said bright flashes of light
and color from a television screen could cause symptoms similar
to epilepsy.

