

Liverpool chief executive Rick Parry has admitted that a
Champions League final between his club and bitter rivals
Manchester United would present the Athens authorities with a
major security headache.


Liverpool have booked their place in the May 24 showpiece in the
Greek capital, and United were aiming to join them when they
defend a 3-2 lead against AC Milan at the San Siro on Wednesday
evening.


Matches between Liverpool and United are high-security affairs
even when they take place on home soil with the numbers of
visiting supporters allowed at either ground hugely curtailed.


In contrast, tens of thousands of supporters from the two clubs
would be expected to make their way to Athens for the final, many
of them without tickets.


"There will be concerns from a security point of view if it's two
English teams, sadly," Parry told BBC Radio on Wednesday, the
morning after Liverpool beat Chelsea on penalties to clinch their
second final spot in the space of three years.


"There will be issues we'll have to address. There will be a lot
of supporters from both teams travelling without tickets, which
the authorities will have to deal with.


"A lot of careful thought and planning would definitely be
required."


Parry could not resist a swipe at Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho, who
infuriated most of Merseyside in the build-up to the game by
describing Liveprool as a small, cup-orientated club.


"I don't care what he says, I don't listen," Parry said. "I guess
when you've invested 500 million pounds, it's a fantastic season
to win the League Cup. He's welcome to his opinions, we care
about Liverpool."


Parry went on to pay tribute to the Liverpool supporters who
generated an electric atmosphere at Anfield on Tuesday night,
inspiring their heroes to cancel out a 1-0 first leg deficit
before deservedly booking their ticket for Athens in the shoot-
out.


"It was another fabulous Anfield night," he reflected. "I thought
we'd never see anything to beat the atmosphere in 2005 (when
Liverpool also beat Chelsea in the semi-final), but I think this
equalled it.


"It was very, very special and I think you only get these nights
in Anfield. The supporters were fantastic and the players and
manager have done a fantastic job and done us proud. It was
magnificent to be there."


Despite their success in Europe, Liverpool have never been
seriously involved in a Premiership title battle since Benitez
took over from Gerard Houllier in 2004.


That fact rankles but Parry is confident things will change now
that Liverpool's new American owners have put the club on a
better financial footing.


"For us, the big prize is the Premier League, we've made no
secret of that," said Parry. "Every one of us wants to be a
Premier League contender. We're not quite there, but we'll do
everything in our power to make sure we get there."

