

A former East Timor police chief cried as he told a commission on
Wednesday that he was powerless to prevent deadly violence from
raging in the country during its 1999 vote for independence.


Hulman Gultom said that poorly equipped military police refused
to try to stop the deadly clashes between groups backing
Indonesia, which had occupied East Timor, and pro-independence
factions.


"They said they were only equipped for riot control, while the
masses had machetes and arrows," he said at the Indonesia-East
Timor commission, which is looking into the unrest during that
troubled time.


Breaking down in tears, Gultom said he and some of his volunteer
officers, who also lacked proper weapons, had decided anyway to
go out onto the streets and try to break up the brutal beatings
and riots that were occurring.


"It was only my fear to God that brought me to do it, they are
all family, whether they are pro-integration or pro-
independence," said Gultom, who was police chief in East Timor's
capital, Dili.


"I don't want to remember what happened, if we are serious about
friendship we should forget this dark period in our lives and
move on," he said as he sobbed.


The 10-member commission, setup in 2005, has been sitting in
towns and cities in Indonesia and East Timor since February to
hear from witnesses to the violence.


Modelled along lines similar to South Africa's post-apartheid
Truth and Reconciliation Commission, it aims at reconciliation
rather than recrimination.


Militia gangs, which the United Nations has said were recruited
and directed by Indonesia's military, went on an arson and
killing spree before and after the East Timorese voted for
independence in the 1999 UN-sponsored ballot.


They killed about 1,400 people and laid waste to much of the
infrastructure in the half-island, which was a Portuguese colony
before Indonesia invaded it in 1975.


Eighteen people are scheduled to testify this week at the
commission sitting in Jakarta, including former military chief
General Wiranto and East Timorese provincial police Inspector
General Timbul Silaen.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.

