

Jose Mourinho has insisted that Arjen Robben should be praised
not damned by Chelsea fans after the Dutch winger stepped up to
take the opening spot-kick in Wednesday night's shootout defeat
by Liverpool.


Robben, who returned to the Chelsea line-up for the first time
since he had knee surgery as a late sub, had his effort
brilliantly saved by Jose Reina and Liverpool went on to win the
shoot-out 4-1.


But Mourinho, whose difficult relationship with Robben has
included public suggestions that he pulls out of squads too
easily with injuries, insisted there would be no recriminations.


"Robben was a brave boy," the Chelsea boss declared. "He wanted
very much to come and help because he knows the team is in a
difficult moment with so many injuries.


"He was not absolutely ready but he was saying 'I want to help'.
I played him to try, with his speed and sharpness, to bring
something to the game in extra-time. We tried to score the
winning goal and after that it went to penalties.


"He is a good penalty taker. He was confident to take it and
again he was brave to have the responsibility and go. He missed -
that's life.


"We didn't want it to go to penalties. On penalties, a team wins
or loses, why? Luck? A bad penalty taker? A goalkeeper more
adapted to saving penalties? In the end, they scored more
penalties than us."


With Manchester United firmly in the driving seat in the
Premiership, Chelsea's dreams of quad success have been shattered
and Mourinho must now rally his troops for the FA Cup final
against United at the new Wembley on May 19.


But Mourinho insisted he was proud of a squad he claims has
defied the odds to have done as well as they have this season,
during which Petr Cech, John Terry, Ricardo Carvalho, Michael
Ballack and Robben have all spent significant periods on the
sidelines.


"I did not say many words to the players afterwards," Mourino
added. "I am proud of them and share the difficult moment with
them. From minute 30 in the first half Chelsea were trying to win
and to score over the 90 minutes. In extra-time again Chelsea was
stronger, faster and incredibly fresher."


Mourinho also suggested that Liverpool's goal on Tuesday night
might have been ruled off by a more attentive official.


"Daniel Agger lost his marker for the goal but somebody tells me
that Salomon Kalou was blocked by an opponent," Mourinho said. "I
am proud of them all."

