

Former Indonesian president Abdurrahman Wahid launched libel
action against the nation's vice president Wednesday over claims
the ex-leader sought a corrupt payment while in office, his
lawyer said.


Wahid filed criminal charges against Vice President Jusuf Kalla
for allegedly making the comments at a political rally last
month, lawyer Ikhsan Abdullah said.


"We have reported Vice President Jusuf Kalla to the police today
for destroying (Wahid's) reputation," Abdullah told AFP.


"Kalla had said (untruthful things) about Gus Dur in front of
thousands of Golkar cadres on April 9 and it was reported in the
media in the following days."


Wahid, popularly known as Gus Dur, was forced to take legal
action after his request in writing to Kalla to clarify the
comments was ignored, Abdullah said.


At the April rally for supporters of Golkar, the political party
that Kalla chairs, he allegedly told them Wahid, while president,
had asked him for an unspecified payment.


Kalla, who was trade minister at the time, told the crowd that he
was sacked by Wahid for refusing the request, the lawyer said.


Wahid would also file a civil case against Kalla for defamation
over the comments for unspecified damages, the lawyer said.


Police are obligated to investigate criminal charges filed to
them, before deciding whether to launch formal action.


"In line with the criminal case that we just filed, we are also
preparing a civil suit for material and immaterial damage to the
Central Jakarta District Court," Abdullah said.


"As a former president and a national figure, he feels offended."


There was no immediate comment from Kalla.


Wahid, from the National Awakening Party, was sacked as president
by the national assembly in July 2001 for unproven allegations of
corruption and incompetence.


He was replaced by his vice president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, who
has since been replaced by former general and current President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.


The 66-year-old Wahid is practically blind, diabetic and has
suffered strokes.

