

The television debate on Wednesday between rightwinger Nicolas
Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal will be the fifth face-to-
face encounter of French presidential candidates.


Here are some of the high points of previous debates.


1974: Valery Giscard d'Estaing sits down with Francois Mitterrand
for the first televised debate. When Mitterrand suggests that
Giscard d'Estaing is out of touch with the poor and
disenfranchised, he retorts: "You do not, Monsieur Mitterrand,
have a monopoly on the heart."  Giscard d'Estaing goes on to win
the election.


1981: In what is billed as a "revenge match", Mitterrand hits
back at Giscard d'Estaing who had described him as a "man of the
past" in the previous debate and called him "a man of the
passive."


When Giscard d'Estaing ties to test Mitterrand's knowledge of
finance by asking him the exchange rate of the Germam mark, the
socialist responds: "I do not like your methods. I am not your
student, you are not the president of the Republic, but my
opponent." Mitterrand won the election.


1988: Mitterrand confronts Jacques Chirac, his then prime
minister in a government of cohabitation. Chirac suggests that he
refer to him by name, instead of by his title. "We are two equal
candidates.. allow me then to call you Monsieur Mitterrand."


"You are absolutely right, Mr prime minister," retorts
Mitterrand.


Chirac sought to corner Mitterrand over the release of Iranian
diplomat Wahid Gordji, who was suspected of involvement in a wave
of terror attacks in Paris in 1986.


"Can you look me in the eye and not say that I told you that we
had evidence that Gordji was guilty? (...)  Can you look me in
the eye and contest my version of the events?" said Chirac in a
moment of bravado.


"I contest it, eye-to-eye," he responded. Mitterrand went on to
win the election.


May 1995: Debating with Chirac, Socialist Lionel Jospin argues in
favour of limiting the presidential term to five instead of seven
years.


"Better to have five years with Jospin than seven years with
Chirac," he quipped. Chirac went on to win the election and
brought in amendments limiting the presidential term to five
years.


Chirac in 2002 declined to hold a debate with far-right leader
Jean-Marie Le Pen, saying he did not want to dignify his
extremist views.

