

The UN war crimes court said Wednesday that it will examine a
request from the court's chief prosecutor to lift the
confidentiality on certain decisions taken in the Slobodan
Milosevic trial.


Though Milosevic died in March last year, arguments about his
trial continue, in particular over certain decisions taken by the
court.


One such decision taken by judges in the Milosevic case which
ruled that certain documents said to contain damaging information
about close links between Belgrade and the Bosnian Serbs should
be kept confidential.


It is also alleged that had the documents been made public it
would have strengthened Bosnia's genocide complaint against
Serbia before the UN's highest court, the International Court of
Justice (ICJ).


Wednesday's ruling however gave no details of which decision the
prosecutor wants to be made public.


The ICJ ruled in February that Serbia was not guilty of genocide
and absolved it from paying potentially huge war reparations
though it did rule that Belgrade did not do enough to prevent the
1995 Srebrenica massacre by Bosnian Serbs.


According to tribunal sources the UN court's chief prosecutor
Carla Del Ponte is keen to counter stories that she struck a deal
with Belgrade to keep the potentially damaging revelations out of
the public domain.


She has denied making any deal with Belgrade and stressed it is
the tribunal judges who have the final say on whether something
is public or confidential.


Former UN prosecutor Geoffrey Nice, who led the case against
Milosevic, said in April that the confidential documents could
have given a more complete picture of Belgrade's role in the
1992-95 war in Bosnia and the 1991-95 Croatian war, secret.


Nice said Del Ponte had erred in 2003 by accepting Belgrade's
argument that some papers should be kept secret for national
security reasons.


"This was a useless pact which only helped Belgrade hide from the
International Court of Justice proof of its role during the
conflicts in Croatia and Bosnia," he said in a letter to
Croatia's Jutarnji List daily.


Over 200,000 people killed in both conflicts which saw Serbs in
Croatia and Bosnia carve out territory and expel hundreds of
thousands of non-Serbs from their homes.


The Dayton peace accords ended the conflict in 1995 after
fighting in Croatia and Bosnia pushed back Serb gains and NATO
mounted a limited air campaign against Serb forces.


Wednesday's decision by the president of the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), Fausto Pocar,
will not necessarily lead to the disputed documents becoming
public.

