

North Korea on Wednesday proposed holding top-level military
talks with South Korea but it was unclear what it wanted to
discuss, Seoul's defence ministry said.


"North Korea proposed general-level talks on May 8-10 at
Panmunjom," a joint security area in the buffer zone dividing the
two Koreas, a spokesman said.


Seoul on Monday had urged the North to hold working-level
military talks this week at Panmunjom, to prepare for the first
test runs of railways across their heavily fortified frontier in
half a century.


The North's response was contained in a brief message sent in the
name of a three-star general, Kim Yong-Chol, who is the North's
chief delegate to the general-level talks. The last meeting of
generals was held in 2006.


"It is not known yet what the North wants to talk about," the
spokesman said.


Seoul is considering the invitation, which coincided with attacks
by Pyongyang over what it called South Korea's military build-up.


Minju Joson, the government daily, said South Korean authorities
were "getting frantic" in their moves to reinforce and develop
ultra-modern war hardware.


"This is a very dangerous criminal act of blocking the process of
peacefully settling the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula,
escalating military tension and driving the situation to the
phase of confrontation and war," it said.


"The North will never remain a passive onlooker to the US and
South Korean warlike forces' reckless war moves against it behind
the curtain of dialogue, but take measures to resolutely counter
them," it said.


The North's state media has voiced similar attacks in the past on
the US-South Korean military alliance.


The two Koreas have agreed to conduct test runs of cross-border
railways on May 17 and to try to ensure there is a military
guarantee for their safe operation.


A previous attempt to carry out the test runs failed last year
because the North Korean military was reluctant to open the
sensitive border area to commercial traffic.


The plan to connect the railways across one of the world's most
dangerous flashpoints is a flagship project for relations between
the two nations, which have remained technically at war since
their 1950-53 conflict.

