

Spiralling tensions and a war of words between Tallinn and Moscow
over the removal of a Soviet war monument eerily reminds
Estonians how they lost their freedom in World War II to the
Soviet Union.


Russia sent a parliamentary delegation to Tallinn on a fact-
finding mission after the removal of the statue of the Bronze
Soldier from the city centre last week and unrest in which a
Russian citizen died.


Although the Russian delegation said Tuesday it would take back
an overall positive impression to Moscow, the group was
criticised for making baseless accusations against the Estonians
and meddling in the internal affairs of the small Baltic EU
member.


"In 1940 it was quite similar, when Stalin sent emisssaries to
Estonia to install a pro-Moscow puppet regime here," Mart Helme,
historian and Estonia's former ambassador to Russia, told AFP.


"The demands by the Russian parliamentary delegation calling for
the resignation of the Estonian government are very much in the
vein of 1940, striking a really sinister chord," Helme said.


The Russian lawmakers called on Estonian Prime Minister Andrus
Ansip to resign over the removal of the statue from a busy city
intersection to a military cemetery in Tallinn.


"Today, luckily, it's different: we're members of NATO and the
EU. Also, it's the information age now, when news spreads quickly
and it's not possible to replace a government without the outside
world noticing," Helme said.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet called Tuesday for the EU
"to react with maximum strength" to the pressure which Estonia
says it is being subjected to by Russia over the removal of a
Soviet war memorial.


"The issue of the Bronze Soldier and vandalism in Tallinn is a
matter for Estonia, but the coordinated activity of Russia
against Estonia is a matter for the whole EU," Paet told a press
conference.


"This is the most serious challenge to the sovreignty of Estonia
since 1991," Andres Kasekamp, director of the Estonian Foreign
Policy Institute, told AFP.


"The danger would have been much greater, however, if Estonia
were not a member of NATO and the EU."


The accession of the Estonia and the other Baltic states of
Latvia and Lithuania to NATO in 2004 met with stiff opposition
from Moscow, which objected to the expansion of the Western
military alliance to its eastern border.


Today, "Moscow is keen to have a finger in the domestic policies
of Estonia and neighbouring Latvia in order to have its agents of
influence in the EU and NATO," said Helme.


"In this way, it hopes to get access to classified information
and be able to influence decision-making in organisations it does
belong to."


The unprecedented rioting in Tallinn and the increasingly grating
criticism from Russia over the Estonians' handling of the unrest
have revived old fears among Estonians.


"Always when Russia starts attacking Estonia, I ask myself where
they will stop," 79-year-old pensioner Milvi Tammist said.


"Will it ever be like in 1940 again, when the Soviets took away
our freedom?" she sighed.


"I'm quite scared, but hope we're not alone today. NATO just
couldn't stand there and look on if Moscow wanted to get its grip
on us again."


A teenager 60 years her junior, said "the aggressiveness of
Moscow" has made him "upset and anguished".


"It's a bad feeling when you sense that your neighouring country
hates you," 17 -year-old Tallinn college student Martti Martinson
said.


"Economic and political relations between Estonia and Russia may
become even worse, but I'm sure international support will not
let Russia come and crush freedom here."

