

World oil prices extended losses on Wednesday, even though
official data was expected to reveal a further fall in US
inventories of motor fuel, analyst said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
lost 19 cents to 66.81 dollars per barrel in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, slid 14 cents to 64.26 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


The New York contract fell 1.31 dollars and Brent 65 cents on
Tuesday, as investors shook off the latest news of kidnappings in
oil-rich Nigeria and locked in some of the hefty gains from the
past week, dealers said.


Nigerian militants Tuesday seized four Italians, a US national
and a Croatian oil worker from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil- producing south and warned of further
kidnappings.


In a separate incident, US oil giant Chevron on Wednesday said it
had shut down 15,000 barrels per day of oil production in its
facility in southern Nigeria following a militant attack.


"We have shut down 15,000 bpd from Funiwa oilfield," the
spokesman told AFP.


The oil market was meanwhile awaiting the latest US stockpiles
data.


"The general expectation is gasoline inventories will again show
a drawdown and that will remain the over-riding issue driving the
market," said Victor Shum of energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) was later Wednesday to release
its weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles and other oil
reserves in the world's largest crude consumer.


Gasoline, or petrol, inventories are in focus ahead of the peak-
demand driving season in the United States, which starts at the
end of May. This sees many Americans taking to the road on
vacation.


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers cartel OPEC on
Wednesday saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency (IEA), the consumers watchdog,
stressed the need to pump more crude.


"The market is stable," Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries secretary general Abdullah el-Badri said.


"I think maybe in June we will review the market to see if we
need more oil or not. But I don't think we need it," Badri told
reporters on the sidelines of a meeting for Asian energy
ministers when asked if OPEC must pump more crude to ease prices.


However, IEA president Claude Mandil warned there was a supply
shortage which required producers to hike output.

