

Five soldiers and seven militants were killed in fighting that
erupted when security forces went to rescue a Czech diplomat who
came under fire in eastern Afghanistan, an official said
Wednesday.


The Afghan military forces responded to a call for help after the
charge d'affaires of the Czech embassy in Kabul was fired on by
gunmen while he was travelling through eastern Paktia province, a
provincial spokesman said.


The diplomat, Filip Velach, was unhurt but two of his bodyguards
were injured in the attack in Zurmat district, Din Mohammad
Darwish said.


"Fighting erupted after the soldiers arrived in the area. Five
soldiers and seven Taliban were killed in the fighting," Darwish
said, adding the battle lasted more than one hour.


The men had taken refuge in a house before the troops arrived,
the spokesman said.


A Czech foreign ministry spokeswoman said the three put out a
distress call to NATO's International Security Assistance Force.
They were taken by helicopter to a US military base.


Velach has been heading the Czech diplomatic mission in Kabul
since mid-April. Around 180 Czech soldiers are serving in ISAF.


Paktia, on the border with Pakistan, is among the provinces in
Afghanistan that sees regular violence blamed on Taliban
insurgents, with several incidents reported around Zurmat.


In a separate incident, five Taliban were killed after about
eight rebels attacked a joint Afghan and coalition checkpost in
southern Kandahar just before midnight, the US-led coalition
said.


"Eight insurgents came out from the vehicles and started firing
on the checkpoint. Afghan border police and coalition forces
returned fire, killing five of them," it said in a statement.


In another incident linked to an advancing Taliban insurgency,
Afghan and coalition forces detained a suspected organiser of
suicide attacks in a raid in southeastern Khost province
Wednesday, a separate statement said.


There are more than 50,000 NATO and US-led troops in Afghanistan
fighting Taliban insurgents alongside Afghan army and police.

