

Thailand on Wednesday slammed a US report downgrading the kingdom
to a group of nations with poor records of intellectual property
protection amid a patent row with Western firms over generic
drugs.


Health Minister Mongkol Na Songkhla, who has clashed with US and
European pharmaceutical giants over allowing copycat versions of
high-priced medicines, accused drug giants of trying to hurt the
country's reputation.


"It is likely that the drug companies have lobbied the US Trade
Representative's office in a bid to damage Thailand's credibility
as it downgraded (Thailand) to the priority watch list," he told
a local TV network.


The US trade office said it was concerned by "an overall
deterioration in the protection and enforcement of intellectual
property rights in Thailand" in an annual report released on
Monday.


Apart from rampant copyright violations on books, DVDs and
apparel here, the US report said Thailand's generic drug efforts
were "further indications of a weakening of respect for patents."


But Mongkol, appointed by the army-backed premier following a
September coup, rejected the report, which put Thailand among the
worst global copyright offenders such as China, Russia and India.


"We need cheap drugs to allow the poor to have access to
medications," the minister said.


The government plans to import generic versions of AIDS drugs,
Kaletra and Efavirenz, and popular heart disease medicine Plavix,
from India.


Angered by Thailand's move, US pharmaceutical giant Abbott
Laboratories, the maker of Kaletra, decided in March not to sell
the new form of the AIDS drug.


But the Chicago-based drug giant appeared to back away from a
confrontation with the Thai government as it was offering to sell
the latest version of Kaletra, known as Aluvia.


Nimit Tienudom, director for AIDS Access Foundation, a Thai
organization supporting AIDS patients, also dismissed the US
report.


"These drug companies want the Thai government to stop using
compulsory licences" that allow generic drugs, he said.


AIDS is Thailand's top cause of death, followed by heart disease,
the health ministry says, adding that some 500,000 Thais are
infected with HIV, but fewer than 10 percent of them can afford
to buy Kaletra.

