

Canara Bank, India's number three  lender, on Thursday reported a
negligible increase in fourth-quarter profit after more than
doubling money set aside to cover possible investment losses.


The Bangalore-based bank said profit rose to 5.05 billion rupees
(122.5 million dollars) in the three months ended March 31, from
4.93 billion rupees a year earlier.


The profit was notched up on revenue that rose to 38.36 billion
rupees from 27.86 billion rupees in the same period a year
earlier, chairman M.B.N. Rao told a news conference here.


Canara, the second largest of India's 27 state-owned banks, set
aside 5.5 billion rupees to cover a possible depreciation of its
financial investments, up from 2.3 billion rupees a year earlier.


Excluding the provisions, and the sale of investments in the two
corresponding quarters, the bank would have logged a profit
increase of 25 percent, Rao said.


Canara is protecting itself against possible losses resulting
from financial- market volatility after interest rates rose, the
rupee appreciated and stock prices wavered in recent weeks.


For the 12 months to March 31, the bank's net profit was 14.20
billion rupees, up from 13.43 billion rupees a year earlier.
Revenue rose to 128 billion rupees in the year from 100 billion
rupees.


The bank said it managed to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of
13 percent despite a 24 percent increase in advances and the need
to set aside more money to cover certain classes of consumer
loans, including mortgages, on the orders of the central bank.


Capital adequacy, measured as a ratio of capital-to-risk-weighted
assets, is a key measure of financial strength. India requires
banks to set aside nine cents as capital on every dollar they
lend.


Banks have been boosting loans to meet demand from consumers and
companies in an economy growing at an annual nine percent.


"The overall objective has been to maintain capital adequacy
above 12 percent so as to support the buoyancy in credit," Rao
said.


Canara Bank raised 19.8 billion rupees from the domestic market
and 250 million dollars overseas by selling bonds during the year
to March 31 to maintain its capital adequacy.

