

Indonesia will not share bird flu samples with  the World Health
Organisation until a dispute with the UN body is resolved in
"black and white," the nation's health minister said Wednesday.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari made the comments one day
after reports that Indonesia was not honouring its promise to
resume sharing samples with the WHO for tests aimed at fighting
the deadly disease.


Indonesia agreed in March to an immediate resumption, after
reaching a breakthrough agreement in international talks with the
WHO to develop a new mechanism on sample-sharing.


But more than four weeks later, samples have not been sent.


Supari said although WHO guarantees had been given orally,
Indonesia wanted them in writing, and would now await the outcome
of the World Health Assembly, an annual meeting of WHO members in
Geneva, later this month.


"Diplomatically, the guarantees have been made, but we want it in
black over white, in writing," Supari told AFP.


"So far we have not seen concrete assurances, but we will still
have to wait until after the WHA (World Health Assembly) later
this month," she said.


"Then, we will see," she added.


Indonesia, the country worst hit by the virus with 74 human
deaths, stopped sending samples in December over concerns that
drug firms would use them to develop costly vaccines beyond
poorer countries' budgets.


But firms now need permission from a country for access to its
virus samples under the March agreement.


Sample-sharing is said to allow experts to track the evolution of
the disease and determine which strains have become drug
resistant, in an attempt to better tackle the virus.


Scientists fear bird flu's deadly H5N1 strain, which was first
reported in humans in Hong Kong in 1997, could mutate into a more
infectious form and spark a flu pandemic with the potential to
kill millions worldwide.


The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least 172 people since
2003, mainly in Southeast Asia, according to the WHO.


Indonesia currently has 20 people infected with bird flu
receiving treatment in hospitals.


Most human infections have been blamed on contact with sick
birds.

