

Estonia closed its consulate in Moscow on Wednesday after pro-
Kremlin youth activists blocked diplomats and scuffled with the
ambassador's bodyguards in protest at the relocation of a Soviet
war memorial in the Baltic state's capital Tallinn.


"The consulate's business is stopped and we will not give visas
until the situation is normalised around the embassy," Ambassador
Marina Kaljurand told journalists shortly after the Nashi (Ours)
youth group tried to disrupt her press conference.


Consulates in Pskov and Saint Petersburg will remain open for the
time being, she said.


Kaljurand said her bodyguards were forced to use gas after
members of the Kremlin-backed Nashi group broke into the
newspaper offices where she was holding the press conference.


"There was an attack aimed at me, but no one got to me," she
said. "There was a fight between my guards and activists from the
Nashi organisation and the guards had to use gas."


The Estonian foreign ministry denounced the attack and called for
a swift international response.


"Physical attacks on the Estonian Republic's diplomatic
representative are unprecedented and absolutely unjustifiable.
These attacks call for immediate actions from the international
community," the foreign ministry in Tallinn said in a statement.


Family members of staff have been evacuated from the embassy
compound, where they also lived, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet told
parliament in Tallinn.


Kaljurand accused the Russian authorities of failing "to
guarantee the security of the embassy" as required under
international conventions.


An AFP reporter saw approximately 30 youths force their way into
the newspaper offices, shouting: "Fascist Estonia!"


Scuffles started and some form of pepper spray was released,
driving out those in the room.


Outside, youths from another government-backed group, Mestnye,
surrounded the ambassador's parked car and tore off its
ceremonial flag. Police did not intervene.


Dozens of youths from Nashi and a third government-backed group,
Young Guard, were spending a sixth day camped outside the
embassy.


About 30 Nashi members on Wednesday briefly prevented the arrival
of a Swedish diplomatic vehicle at the embassy until police
pushed them aside, an AFP correspondent said. The youths again
attempted to block the Swedish embassy car as it left.


In Stockholm the foreign ministry said the car contained Swedish
ambassador to Russia Johan Molander, adding that Sweden had
protested over the incident.


"The ambassador's car was stopped and attacked by a mob as he was
leaving the Estonian embassy. They kicked the car and tore off
the Swedish flag. The ambassador was not injured but the
atmosphere was very aggressive," ministry spokeswoman Sofia
Karlberg told AFP.


State secretary for foreign affairs Frank Belfrage sent a "strong
verbal protest" to the Russian embassy in Stockholm, and the
Russian ambassador was been summoned to the ministry for a
meeting later Wednesday.


"Russian police intervened too late and in an insufficient
manner," the ministry said.


Shortly after, an unmarked car hindered the exit of an Estonian
diplomatic vehicle, bearing the Baltic republic's tricolour flag.
Riot police dragged the driver from the car and forced him into a
police vehicle, an AFP correspondent said.


On Tuesday the embassy's flag was pulled down.


Estonia's President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has described the
embassy protest as "psycho-terror."


The activists say they are protesting against Estonia's
relocation of the Bronze Soldier World War II monument from
central Tallinn to a military cemetery.


The Estonian government has called for help from the rest of the
European Union and claims that the Russian authorities are
fomenting unrest in the former Soviet republic.


On Wednesday the European Commission urged Russia to end the
blockade and said it wanted to send an EU delegation to raise the
issue with Russian authorities.


"We share the concerns about the increasing violence around the
Estonian embassy in Moscow," an external relations spokeswoman
said, calling on Russia to respect its international obligations
on embassies and their staff.


Many Estonians see the monument as a symbol of Soviet occupation,
which lasted five decades after the Red Army drove Nazi Germany's
army out of the Baltics.

