

Thailand on Wednesday launched a 44 billion baht (1.2 billion
dollar) loan package for the less well off in a programme aimed
at boosting the country's flagging economy.


The loans, to be issued starting this month, are aimed at
bolstering support for low-income earners, said Finance Minister
Chalongphob Sussangkarn.


"The package is aimed at stimulating loan issuance for grassroots
people in order to enable them to access financial resources to
generate more revenue and improve their quality of life," said
Chalongphob.


"The government will help strengthen the grassroots economy which
would indirectly benefit the country's economic growth overall,"
he told reporters.


Combined with general loan goals for the year, the four state-run
banks plan to approve 466 billion baht (13.3 billion dollars) in
credit to consumers this year, Chalongphob said.


The banks involved are the Government Savings Bank, the Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, the Government Housing
Bank and the SME Bank.


Low- and middle-income people will qualify for the new loans for
homes, business development, community projects and education.


Small- and medium-sized enterprises can also apply for loans to
buy machinery and upgrade their operations, Chalongphop said.


Thailand's economy has been hit by sagging investor confidence as
the military- backed government, which came to power in a
September coup, executed a host of policy blunders, including
controversial currency control rules.


The Bank of Thailand last week revised down its economic growth
forecast for 2007 to 3.8-4.8 percent, from its previous target of
4.0-5.0 percent due to sluggish consumption and weak business
sentiment.


Pannee Sathavarodom, director-general of the finance ministry's
Fiscal Policy Office, said the new scheme was aimed at
maintaining economic growth of at least 4.0 percent this year.


"We have seen the slowdown in consumer spending and this scheme
will help boost purchasing power and consumption," Pannee told
AFP.


Analysts welcomed the government's efforts but doubted they would
revitalise the overall economy.


"The 44 billion baht financial scheme is minimal compared to the
Thailand's gross domestic product (GDP) of 7.8 trillion baht and
at least 300 billion baht (in lending) approved by comercial
banks each year," said Thanomsri Fongarunrung, an economist at
Phatra Securities.


"The package is needed because consumption needs the boost but
the economic impact of the measure remains in doubt," she said.


Thanomsri said additional measures in terms of interest rate cuts
and increased government spending on infrastructure projects are
critical to boost the economy for the rest of the year.


The central bank last month cut its key interest rate by a half-
point to 4.0 percent, with analysts expecting the rate could be
further slashed to 3.0 percent by the end of the year.

