

Palestinian authorities know the whereabouts of the kidnapped BBC
newsman in Gaza, but are not carrying out a rescue operation so
as not to risk his safety, president Mahmud Abbas said on
Wednesday.


"The Palestinian Authority knows the place but we want to
safeguard his life and put an end (to his detention) without
risk," Abbas told reporters, referring to Alan Johnston, snatched
at gunpoint in Gaza City on March 12 as he drove home from work.


"We are continuing our efforts to free him as soon as possible,"
Abbas said.


The statement came a day after the chief of Palestinian security
services, Rashid Abu Shbak, said in an interview that insecurity
in Gaza was preventing a rescue operation.


"But the security situation in the Gaza Strip does not allow
these services to carry out an operation to free him," Shbak
said, adding that the British government had asked Abbas not to
resort to force to free Johnston.


Factional violence in Gaza had killed dozens of Palestinians
before the creation of a unity cabinet on March 17 put a lid on
the simmering tensions.


Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed, meanwhile, said
on Monday that the kidnappers had conveyed "demands" for
Johnston's release but he specified only that they were of a
"political and ideological" nature.


And he said the kidnappers had stressed that the journalist, who
has been held for more than seven weeks -- far longer than any
other Western hostage in the Gaza Strip -- was in "good" health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed in a statement
to have killed him, but Palestinian authorities have said there
was no proof of the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The
Brigades of Holy War and Unity).


Johnston, 44, was the only Western journalist left working full-
time in the increasingly dangerous Gaza Strip when he was
abducted.


He is the latest of around 20 foreign journalists and aid workers
to be abducted in Gaza over the past year. All of them have so
far been released unharmed, with most used to lever concessions
from the authorities.


Johnston's ordeal has sparked international protests, with
solidarity demonstrations held in Belgium, Egypt, Lebanon and
throughout Britain.

