

State secrecy laws in many countries hark back to the Cold War-
era, restrict the work of the media and help promote conspiracy
theories, according to a report released Wednesday.


"Excessive secrecy still remains in many areas," said the report,
by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), into public and media access to government-held
information in most of its 56 members states.


The OSCE said some state secrets laws were simply dated but that
factors like the so-called "war on terror" launched by the United
States after the September 11, 2001 attacks have made countries
reluctant to reveal information.


"Many state secrets laws still retain the Cold War mentality and
structures and the recently heightened security concerns have
replaced it as the justification for secrecy," the document said.


It noted that "not all of the laws are effective. Many have
excessive exemptions and do not recognise the need to balance the
public's right to know with the need for secrecy."


The practice, the OSCE said, "can undermine public trust and
promote conspiracy theories".


It underlined that many governments involved in the conflict in
Iraq "have suffered a loss of public confidence" due to the
"origins and subsequent prosecution of the war".


The report recommended that the definition of "state secrets" be
limited to information directly related to national security and
that it should remain secret for only a limited time, almost
never longer than 15 years.


It said data linked to violations of the law or human rights,
administrative errors, threats to public health and the
environment, as well as scientific, social-economic and cultural
information should never be classified.


The OSCE also called for an independent body to supervise
classified information and urged sanctions against those who
deliberately and improperly make data secret or maintain
excessive secrecy.


It also urged countries not to take action against whistleblowers
who disclose information of public interest, and to adopt laws to
protect against the forced disclosure of media sources.


The OSCE comprises countries from Europe, Central Asia and North
America, and aims to help provide stability through tasks ranging
from election monitoring to conflict resolution.

