

The press is freer than in the past in Morocco but there are
attempts to gag the media, the annual report from the country's
national press union (SNPM) said Wednesday.


"On the one hand, there is greater freedom mainly due to the
efforts of NGOs fighting to defend freedom of expression, but on
the other there are attempts to rein in this freedom," said the
union's General Secretary Younes Moujahid.


The assessment however was in stark contrast to a report by the
New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists, which singled
out Morocco with Tunisia "as the Arab world's leading jailer of
journalists."


"Nations such as Thailand and Morocco have been considered press
freedom leaders in their regions but have charted sharp declines
over the past five years," said the report, released ahead of
Thursday's World Press Freedom Day.


It said three journalists had been sentenced to prison terms and
three others banished "through politically motivated lawsuits",
and accused the state media and the government of inciting
protests against the independent press.


Moujahid meanwhile said it was heartening that no journalist had
been jailed in the north African Muslim nation since 2004. But he
underscored that authorities should pay compensation to those who
faced "exaggerated" charges.


A Casablanca court in January gave three-year suspended prison
terms to two journalists and fined Nichane magazine's managing
editor and a journalist 80,000 dirhams (7,200 euros, 9,300
dollars) for "defamation against Islam and the monarchy".


The case was sparked by an article entitled "How Moroccans laugh
at religion, sex and politics" and featured the prophet Mohammed,
the late Moroccan king Hassan II, Islamists and Moroccans.


It had been closely followed throughout the kingdom and abroad as
a test of freedom of speech in Morocco.


The court also banned Nichane from publishing for two months, but
rejected the prosecution's demand for jail terms for the
journalists.


Moujahid said his union wanted a law passed on the "right to
information," adding: "A democracy without transparency is not a
democracy."


The reign of former king Hassan II, a stalwart regional ally of
the West, was marked by tough measures against critics of the
regime.


But after his son, King Mohamed VI, ascended the throne in 1999,
people looked to the monarchy and government to speed up reforms.

