

Wreckage of a helicopter carrying a top businessman who was an
honorary vice- president of Chelsea football club was found in
woodland Wednesday after it disappeared overnight, police said.


Phillip Carter, multimillionaire head of vocational training
company Carter and Carter, is believed to have been travelling
back with three or four other people from Chelsea's Champion's
League semi-final with Liverpool at Anfield.


The twin-engine Squirrel helicopter took off from John Lennon
Airport in Liverpool, north-west England, around 11:00 pm (2200
GMT) Wednesday, bound for Peterborough, north of London.


But it disappeared from radar screens nearly two hours later. The
local Cambridgeshire police said they were called shortly before
1.45 am amid reports that it had failed to land at a private
residence in the village of Thornhaugh.


The helicopter's remains were reported to be intact, and the
condition of its occupants was not immediately clear.


"They found the helicopter intact but we do not know anything
about the people inside," Shirley Waller, whose son Jonathan was
also on board the helicopter, told BBC News 24.


But she added: "I am thinking the worst."


Carter is one of Chelsea's eight vice-presidents but his position
does not mean that he has a place on the board or is an official
of the club.


The incident recalls the 1996 crash which killed Chelsea's
wealthy vice-chairman Matthew Harding and four other men as they
travelled back from a Bolton Wanderers match.


Their Squirrel helicopter crashed on farmland in Cheshire, north-
west England, and a coroner later recorded a verdict of
accidental death after hearing that the pilot might have become
disorientated.


Shares in Carter and Carter were suspended at the request of the
company after news of the crash, the Financial Services Authority
said.


According to the Sunday Times newspaper's Rich List, published
earlier this week, Carter was worth 92 million pounds (135
million euros, 183 million dollars).


Chelsea crashed out of the Champions League in the Anfield match
Wednesday night, losing 4-1 on penalties in the semi-final to
Liverpool after the tie ended 1-1 on aggregate.

