

All the occupants died when a helicopter thought to be carrying
an honorary vice-president of Chelsea Football Club crashed while
returning from a match with Liverpool, police said Wednesday.


Millionaire businessman Phillip Carter was believed to be
travelling back with three others from Chelsea's Champion's
League semi-final with Liverpool at Anfield Wednesday night, when
the aircraft came down north of London.


"Those persons are deceased," said Detective Superintendent John
Raine, of Cambridgeshire Police, briefing reporters near the
scene of the crash in a wood near the city of Peterborough, close
to where the helicopter was heading.


He declined to confirm the identity of the victims, but earlier a
spokesman for Carter's company, vocational training firm Carter
and Carter, said his helicopter had gone missing while returning
from Liverpool Wednesday night.


"The cause of the crash was not immediately clear, but the
helicopter did not disintegrate on impact," Raine said.


"It's largely intact. There's some wreckage that's been dispersed
over a relatively small area."


The twin-engine Squirrel helicopter took off from John Lennon
Airport in Liverpool, northwest England, around 11:00 pm (2200
GMT) Wednesday, bound for Peterborough, where Carter lived.


But it disappeared from radar screens nearly two hours later and
the local Cambridgeshire police said they were called shortly
before 1.45 am.


"They found the helicopter intact but we do not know anything
about the people inside," Shirley Waller, whose son Jonathan was
also on board the helicopter, told BBC News 24.


But she added: "I am thinking the worst."


Carter is one of Chelsea's eight vice-presidents but his position
does not mean that he has a place on the board or is an official
of the club.


The incident recalls the 1996 crash which killed Chelsea's
wealthy vice-chairman Matthew Harding and four other men as they
travelled back from a Bolton Wanderers match.


Their Squirrel helicopter crashed on farmland in Cheshire, north-
west England, and a coroner later recorded a verdict of
accidental death after hearing that the pilot might have become
disorientated.


Shares in Carter and Carter were suspended at the request of the
company after news of the crash, the Financial Services Authority
said.


According to the Sunday Times newspaper's Rich List, published
earlier this week, Carter was worth 92 million pounds (135
million euros, 183 million dollars).


Chelsea crashed out of the Champions League in the Anfield match
Wednesday night, losing 4-1 on penalties in the semi-final to
Liverpool after the tie ended 1-1 on aggregate.

