

Turkey's Islamist-rooted ruling party formally asked parliament
Wednesday to approve early general elections on June 24 as a way
out of a political crisis over who the next president should be.


The proposal by the Justice and Development Party (AKP) must be
voted into law by parliament for elections to be brought forward
from their current November 4 date.


Parliament will now schedule a debate on the proposal.


The move came a day after the Constitutional Court annulled the
first-round parliamentary ballot to elect a new president.


The crisis erupted over widespread opposition to the sole
presidential candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, over
concerns that his Islamist background could erode Turkey's
fiercely guarded secular system.


Tensions reached a climax Friday when the military accused Prime
Minister Recap Tayyip Erdogan's government of failing to prevent
rising Islamist activity and threatened to intervene.


The unusually harsh statement followed an inconclusive first
round of voting in the AKP-dominated parliament, in which Gul
fell 10 votes short of the required two-thirds majority of 367.


The opposition boycotted the vote.


More than a million Turks demonstrated in Istanbul at the weekend
in favour of secularism and against an AKP president, after a
similar mass demonstration two weeks earlier in Ankara.


Critics say Erdogan's party, the moderate offshoot of a now-
banned Islamist movement, is not truly committed to the secular
system and is eroding the separation of state and religion.


The Constitutional Court's decision to annul the vote "opened a
very important window of opportunity to overcome the concerns and
tensions that emerged following the military's statement," the
popular Vatan newspaper wrote.


"Everybody in Ankara, including the government and the opposition
sighed a deep breath of relief," it said.


The court ruled that the presidential vote should begin anew
because a quorum was lacking in Friday's first round.


The court was petitioned by the main opposition Republican
People's Party (CHP) in a bid to block Gul's candidacy and force
early elections.


Parliament Speaker Bulent Arinc said Wednesday that a
parliamentary committee would convene later in the day to fix a
new timetable for the presidential vote, which can go up to four
rounds.


Gul said he would not press ahead with his candidacy if he fails
again in a repeated first round, which is the most likely
possibility.


"Let us us see if the lawmakers have changed their minds after
all these developments... But, after that, my personal opinion is
to call... elections at the earliest possible time," he said late
Tuesday.


Throwing down the gauntlet to the opposition, Erdogan said the
AKP would also push for comprehensive constitutional amendments,
including electing the president by popular vote, rather than by
a parliamentary ballot.


Another proposed amendment would give the president a once-
renewable five year term instead of the current single, seven-
year mandate.


The proposal is expected to be submitted to the house later
Wednesday.


If Gul fails in his second bid to become president, ruling party
officials said they would prefer to hold general elections and
the first round of the popular vote for president simultaneously.

