

Dirk Kuyt, scorer of the decisive penalty in Liverpool's
Champions League win over Chelsea on Tuesday, is relishing the
chance of facing Manchester United in an "historic" final in
Athens later this month.


Five-time winners Liverpool sealed their ticket for the May 23
final with a 4-1 win on penalties after Tuesday's semi-final tie
ended 1-1 on aggregate.


Liverpool will discover the identity of their opponents after the
second leg tie between United and AC Milan at the San Siro on
Wednesday with Sir Alex Ferguson's side edging the first leg 3-2.


And Kuyt for one is in no doubt who he would like to see walking
out of the tunnel alongside Liverpool.


The Dutch striker told BBC Sport: "AC Milan and Manchester United
are two great teams and clubs.


"But a meeting between two big clubs from the Premiership in the
Champions League final would be historic."


The forward added: "It is fantastic for us to reach the Champions
League final. There is no bigger game in European club football
and to do it in my first season here is an amazing feeling.


"We felt we deserved to win after the 90 minutes and extra time.
We were very strong and to see that last penalty go in was a
great feeling.


"It is just fantastic for us. We had chances. I hit the post and
had a goal disallowed, but we got there in the end and
(goalkeeper) Pepe Reina was sensational for us in the penalty
shoot-out.


"You come to clubs like Liverpool for nights like this.


"We wanted to do it for our fans as well because they were
fantastic in the way they supported us.


"We have beaten some very strong teams to get to the final, like
Barcelona, PSV Eindhoven and now Chelsea.


"It is not up to us who we play, Manchester United and AC Milan
have to fight for their place, but certainly two English clubs
playing each other would be history.


"Now we have to get ready for the final because we want to win it
now. We have come this far so we want to win it and we think we
can.


"We have shown we can win over two legs against the best sides,
now it is down to one match."

