

A flurry of news on mergers and takeovers helped Wall Street keep
upward momentum Wednesday as media stocks led the upside in the
wake of a surprise bid by News Corp. for Dow Jones & Co.


At 1410 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 57.37
points (0.44 percent) to 13,193.51, as the blue-chip index
extended its gains after closing at another record high Tuesday.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite increased 14.93 points (0.59
percent) to 2,546.46 and the broad-market Standard & Poor's
500 index rose 6.57 points (0.44 percent) to 1,492.87.


A driving factor "is renewed attention to media stocks," said
Joseph Hargett at Schaeffer's Investment Research after the hefty
five-billion-dollar bid by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. for the
publisher of the Wall Street Journal.


The surprise bid has lifted other media stocks and fueled
speculation about more merger and takeover efforts in the sector.


Hargett added there were also "rumors circulating that NYSE
Euronext could make a bid for the International Securities
Exchange effectively crashing Deutsche Boerse's 2.8-billion-
dollar takeover of the American exchange."


Also in takeover news, Cablevision Systems signed a deal that
would transfer the big cable TV operator to a private entity
headed by the founding Dolan family for 22 billion dollars.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said the bid for Dow Jones "is a
stunning offer that is the major factor for the positive tone."


But he predicted that after the merger frenzy news passes, "we
expect the momentum to fade."


"The indices were up about five percent in April, which is
historically the best month for the market. The economic numbers
will take on increasing importance, and there will be cause for
concern," Green added.


Bob Dickey at RBC Dain Rauscher agreed that the market may have
gone too far too fast.


"It is interesting to read how many advisors are climbing on
board the bullish bandwagon now that the market is at new highs
and the gains in some stocks have been huge," he said.


After a gain of about 1,000 points in the Dow in the past six
weeks, "common sense tells us to be more defensive."

