

Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves on Wednesday called on
Russia to "remain civilised" amid a spiralling diplomatic crisis
sparked by the removal of a Soviet war memorial.


"It is not customary in Europe to demand the resignation of the
democratically elected government of another sovereign country,"
he said in a statement.


"It is not customary in Europe to use computers belonging to
public institutions for cyber-attacks against another country's
public institutions.


"In Europe, as well as in the rest of the civilised world, it is
not considered possible to violate the Vienna Convention..."


Relations between Moscow and Estonia went into a tailspin last
week when youths, many of them from the Baltic state's large
Russian minority, rioted in Tallinn over the removal of a
monument to Red Army soldiers who fell in World War II.


Russians see the statue as a sacred memorial to the millions of
Soviet soldiers who died defeating fascism, while Estonians see
it as a painful reminder of their country's 50-year annexation by
the USSR.


A delegation from the Russian lower house Duma kicked off a two-
day fact-finding mission to Tallinn with a call for Prime
Minister Andrus Ansip to quit over the removal of the Bronze
Soldier war memorial.


Estonian government websites have had to be shut temporarily
because of repeated cyber-attacks, some of which came from
computers in the Russian administration, including the office of
President Vladimir Putin, the Estonian foreign minister has
alleged.


On Wednesday, family members of staff working at the Estonian
embassy in Moscow were evacuated as a six-day siege of the
compound continued, and members of the Kremlin-backed Nashi
(Ours) youth group tried to assault Estonian ambassador Marina
Kajuland during a press conference.


"It is customary in Europe that differences, which do now and
then occur between states, are solved by diplomats and
politicians, not on the streets or by computer attacks," Ilves
said.


"Those are the ways of other countries, somewhere else, not in
Europe."

