

Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai summoned foreign military
chiefs Wednesday after claims of new civilian deaths in anti-
Taliban operations, saying afterwards these casualties were
unacceptable.


"We can no longer accept civilian casualties, the way they occur.
It's becoming heavy for us," Karzai told reporters after talks
with the heads of the NATO- and US-led forces and representatives
of the UN, US embassy and EU.


The meeting came as more than 1,000 students in the eastern
province of Nangarhar demanded the withdrawal of US troops in a
fourth day of angry demonstrations over civilians allegedly
killed by coalition troops.


"It is becoming a heavy burden and we are not happy about it,"
Karzai said.


"I hope the international community will find with us, with our
relevant ministries, a mechanism that will bring an end to
collateral damage, to damage to civilians," he said.


Students in the Nangarhar demonstration claimed that six people
killed in a US- led coalition raid at the weekend were civilians.
The coalition says four were militants.


Government and UN teams have meanwhile gone to the Shindand
district of the western province of Herat province to investigate
allegations that civilians died in recent fighting that the
coalition said killed 136 Taliban.


Herat police said Tuesday at least 30 civilians were killed.


Karzai said Afghanistan had welcomed the international community
after the fall of the Taliban regime in 2001. The extremists were
toppled by the US-led coalition for sheltering the Al-Qaeda
terror network.


"The Afghan people recognised that without the assistance of the
international community, Afghanistan would not be free from the
occupation of terrorism and from the use of our soil by
terrorism," he said.


"But five years on, it's very difficult for us to continue to
accept civilian casualties."


Karzai said he had "worked personally in the past four years,
almost on a monthly, weekly basis, with the international
community to bring some sort of coordination, cooperation to such
raids on homes and on villages."


"Unfortunately that cooperation and coordination, as we tried,
has not given us the result that we want so we are not happy
about it."

