

Israel suspects Arab former MP Azmi Bishara of treason over
accusations he advised Hezbollah and directed its rocket fire
during last summer's war in Lebanon, police said on Wednesday.


Bishara, who resigned his seat in parliament while abroad on
April 22, is suspected of coming into "direct contact" with
Hezbollah during the war and advising them "on how to cause
damage in Israel," police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld told AFP.


Bishara is also suspected of advising the Shiite militant group
on the impact of the rocket strikes and how Israel was likely to
react, Rosenfeld said after a gag order on details of the
investigation was completely lifted.


Hezbollah fired nearly 4,000 rockets against communities across
northern Israel during the July-August war, killing more than 40
civilians and sending another million fleeing.


Police also suspect Bishara received "hundreds of thousands of
dollars" from Hezbollah in exchange for the information. They
believe the money was transferred to him through Jordan and three
east Jerusalem money changers who have been arrested and
interrogated by police.


Rosenfeld said that if convicted on the treason charge, Bishara
could face the death sentence.


Last week, after the gag order was partially lifted, police
confirmed that the 50-year-old ex-MP was being investigated on
suspicion of aiding an enemy at a time of war, handing over
information to the enemy, being in contact with a foreign agent
and violating money laundering laws.


Bishara has denied the charges in a statement released through
his National Democratic Assembly party, better known by its
Hebrew acronym Balad.


He accused the Israeli authorities of conducting a witchhunt
against him because of his virulent criticism of the Jewish
state's policies.


Several weeks after Israel and Hezbollah ended their war in
Lebanon last August, Bishara and two other MPs from his Balad
party paid a controversial visit to Syria and Lebanon in defiance
of an Israeli ban.


Israel is officially in a state of war with both countries. Its
citizens are not allowed to visit "enemy states" without
permission from the authorities.


A distinguished debater with a doctorate in philosophy who speaks
Arabic, English, German and Hebrew, Bishara was in 1999 the first
Arab Israeli to run for prime minister.


He has been a tireless defender of the concept of a State of
Israel for all its citizens, and has campaigned relentlessly for
the rights of the 1.2 million- strong Arab minority which
accounts for 20 percent of the population.

