

Two defectors described Wednesday how they had been tortured in a
North Korean prison camp, as a South Korean rights group issued a
report on abuses of detainees in the communist state.


"I was tortured for up to nine months," a former trading agency
company official who used the alias of Kim Kwang-Soo told a news
conference.


The conference was organised by the Citizens Alliance for North
Korean Human Rights (NKHR) in South Korea, which issued a report
entitled "North Korea: Republic of Torture."


Kim, 44, said he escaped to China in April 2003 and eventually to
South Korea, after spending three years at a political prison
camp in Yodeok county in South Hamgyeong province on false
charges of spying.


He was arrested in July 1999 at his home town in the northeastern
border city of Hoeryeong after one of his colleagues made false
reports.


Kim said he was placed in an underground cell in Hoeryeong and
beaten relentlessly with a club despite persistently denying
espionage, leaving all his teeth broken.


He said he eventually made a false confession, before being moved
to the Yodeok camp.


The most painful treatment was "pigeon torture" in which
prisoners were handcuffed to a bar with their arms behind their
back, he said.


"I could not either stand up or sit down. The muscles in my
shoulders were paralysed in a day, the bones seemed to break
through my chest."


Inmates at Yodeok faced forced labour day and night, he said.


Although not everyone was physically attacked, those targeted for
death at the camp were assigned work they could never finish, Kim
said.


"When they could not finish the assigned work, there is no food
for them. With less food and arduous work they get weaker and
eventually end up dead."


Other defectors testified that North Korea kept prison camps in
Yodeok and elsewhere under wraps by punishing those leaking
information on them.


"Ordinary people in North Korea do not know about the existence
of prison camps," said Kim Eun-Cheol, who defected to South Korea
last year after being imprisoned at Yodeok for three years on
treason charges.


Before being sent to the camp for trying to flee to China in
January 2000, he said he was subject to "kneeling torture" for
six months at a detention facility with a thick wooden piece
fixed in between his knees and calves.


"In that position, I cannot say exactly how much they had beaten
me," he said in a statement.


The Citizens Alliance for North Korean Human Rights detailed
accounts from 20 former detainees in its report.


It urged China to stop its policy of rounding up and repatriating
those refugees it catches on the grounds that they are economic
migrants.


More than 10,000 people have arrived in the South since the
1950-1953 war ended.


Human rights groups say hundreds of thousands more may be hiding
out in China, with many awaiting an opportunity to travel to
Seoul via a third country.

