

World leaders converged on the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh
Wednesday for key talks aimed at stabilising Iraq, the first such
round of multilateral diplomacy since the 2003 invasion.


Amid hopes the fresh initiative could help end the bloodshed in
Iraq, speculation also abounded over the prospect of the first
high-level talks between the United States and Iran in almost
three decades.


On her way to Egypt, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said
the onus was on Iraq's neighbours to show their commitment to
ending the bloodshed, warning that their own stability was at
stake.


"The most important message that I will be delivering is that a
stable, unified and democratic Iraq is an Iraq that will be a
pillar of stability in the Middle East and an Iraq that is not
stable and not an Iraq for all people will be a source of
instability for the region," she told reporters.


The two-day conference will mark be the first time high-ranking
officials from all the powers with a stake in Iraq sit down
together in a bid to stem the spiralling chaos.


Completing a shift in US policy, Rice was expected to talk to
Syria and Iran, who have been accused by Washington of funding
and abetting Iraq's Sunni insurgency and Shiite militias
respectively.


A rumoured meeting with her Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr
Mottaki, would mark the highest-level official contact between
the two foes since the United States cut relations in 1980.


However, Tehran has yet to give an unequivocal sign it is ready
for talks and Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostavafi said on
Tuesday the conditions were not right for a "dialogue" with Rice
at the conference.


Speaking to reporters during a stopover in Ireland, Rice
indicated she would be ready to discuss issues other than Iraq
with the Iranian foreign minister, including the standoff over
the Islamic republic's nuclear programme.


"I think I could handle any question as asked," she said.


"The developments between Iran, the United States and the West
have had a negative effect on Iraq's situation, and the more they
have dialogue together the more it will help the Iraqi
government's efforts to succeed," Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar
Zebari said during a visit to Tehran last week.


In the run-up to the landmark conference, Western and regional
leaders have hammered home the same message that Iraq's
influential neighbours need to do their share.


On Sunday, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki again warned his
neighbours that the "terrorist attacks that target Iraq are not
limited to Iraq, but will spread to every country in the world."


The Sharm el-Sheikh conference is the second attempt in two
months to bring Iraq's neighbours together in a bid to reach a
consensus on means of ending the carnage.


As some of the 27 foreign ministers and diplomats representing 22
other countries were expected to start arriving, Egyptian police
imposed a tight security cordon around Sharm el-Sheikh.


Rice was expected to arrive in Egypt later Wednesday and go
straight into preliminary talks with Maliki and other officials.


The two-day conference starts in earnest on Thursday with the
launch of the International Compact with Iraq (ICI), an
initiative providing a framework for Iraq's security and economic
development.


US Treasury Deputy Secretary Robert Kimmitt said the talks would
seek to achieve further debt relief for Iraq's embattled economy
and set clear benchmarks for its increased integration.


But he remained cautious on the results that could be expected
from the talks.


"Now not everything is going to be achieved at this meeting in
terms of all of the commitments that will need to be made to Iraq
over time but I think as the Iraqis meet more and more of their
targets, you'll see more and more commitments to them," he said.


The conference comes against the backdrop of an intense battle
between US President George W. Bush's administration and the
Democrat-dominated Congress over the war in Iraq.


On Tuesday, Bush dashed the hopes of some of the region's
countries for a US troop withdrawal deadline by vetoing a bill
calling for pullout timeline.

