

The Ugandan rebel Lord's Resistance Army on Wednesday denied
carrying out an attack that left seven civilians dead and instead
accused government forces of targeting its fighters.


LRA spokesman Godfrey Ayoo said rebel fighters were not behind
Monday's attack in northern Uganda in which a truck was ambushed
and seven passengers killed.


"Our forces are not responsible for that attack on the road," he
told AFP by telephone from Juba, capital of the semi-autonomous
region of southern Sudan, where both sides recently resumed peace
talks aimed at ending two decades of insurgency.


"It is the responsibility of the UPDF (Ugandan People's Defence
Forces) to explain who is behind the attack. They must bear the
responsibility."


Ayoo instead accused the Ugandan army of attacking its forces in
recent days. LRA fighters are currently moving to an assembly
point in southern Sudan.


"Up to last night, we have been getting reports that the UPDF is
attacking  our forces who are crossing the River Nile to the
assembly camp," he said.


If confirmed, the attacks would be a violation of a ceasefire
signed in August last year and renewed last month after the
intervention of the UN special envoy to the peace talks,
Mozambique's former president Joaquim Chissano.


"Our interpretation is that there are elements in the Ugandan
government that are doing all they can to break the peace talks.
We will not be party to that," Ayoo said.


LRA supremo Joseph Kony and his deputy Vincent Otti -- among five
LRA commanders indicted by the International Criminal Court for
war crimes -- have refused to participate in the talks and have
instead delegated the responsibility to junior officials.


Kony has vowed never to sign a peace deal unless the ICC
indictments are withdrawn.


The LRA took over a two-year-old rebellion in northern Uganda in
1988 and vowed to overthrow President Yoweri Museveni.


Its campaign has been marked by brutality against civilians,
claiming tens of thousands of lives and displacing up to one
million people.

