

Sudan rejected the first arrest warrants issued Wednesday by the
International Criminal Court over the Darfur conflict for a
Sudanese minister of state and a militia leader accused of
murder, torture and rape.


"Sudan rejects the ICC prosecutor's decision and our position is
in line with international law because Sudan is not a member of
the treaty that founded this jurisdiction," Justice Minister
Mohammed Ali al-Mardhi told reporters.


In documents released Wednesday, ICC judges said there were
"reasonable grounds" to conclude that Ahmed Haroun, Sudan's
secretary of state for humanitarian affairs and a former minister
in charge of Darfur, and Ali Kosheib, a principal leader of the
Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militia, were "criminally responsible"
for war crimes and crimes against humanity.


The arrest warrants, dated April 27, charge the pair with a long
list of 51 counts including murder, torture, mass rape and the
forced displacement of entire villages during a series of attacks
in western Darfur in 2003 and 2004.


"Sudan has nothing to do with this decision and had already
announced that it would not cooperate with the ICC when it comes
to trying Sudanese nationals outside of Sudan," Mardhi said.


When the two suspects were first named in late February by the
Hague-based court, Sudan rejected the move and insisted it had
already dealt with both of them.


Khartoum said it interrogated Haroun and found him not to be a
suspect. Kosheib was detained last year by the Sudanese
authorities but the opening of his trial has been postponed until
further notice.


Mardhi argued that the ICC's decision to issue arrest warrants
was a "political decision" and further evidence that the court
was being used by the West to pressure Sudan into accepting an
international force in Darfur.


The international community has been urging Sudan to accept the
deployment of a robust UN peacekeeping force in Darfur to prop up
the embattled African Union contingent which has been deployed
there since 2004.


Khartoum last month accepted the second phase of the UN
peacekeeping plan but has yet to give its green light to the
final stage, which provides for the deployment of up to 20,000 UN
troops.


Observers argue that Khartoum also fears that an increased UN
presence in Darfur could lead to the arrest of senior regime
officials suspected of war crimes in the conflict-ridden western
region.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the
conflict erupted more than four years ago. Some sources say the
toll is much higher.

