

Iran must enter negotiations over its nuclear programme or face
increasing international isolation, the US State Department
number three stressed before six-party talks on the issue
Wednesday in London.


Ambassador Nicholas Burns, the US under secretary of state for
political affairs, said Iran could choose a path of either
diplomacy or confrontation with the international community.


Diplomats from the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United
States -- plus Germany were to meet Wednesday to discuss their
next moves on Tehran's controversial uranium enrichment
programme.


Iran is under UN sanctions because of nuclear activities which
have fuelled fears that it seeks to build atomic weapons.


"We have a choice of confrontation or diplomacy; we prefer
diplomacy," Burns told Chatham House, the London-based
international affairs think-tank, in a speech on US-Iranian
relations.


"The six of us have been meeting now for the better part of a
year and a half and we have been aligned in putting forward the
diplomatic overture to the Iranian people and government which is
on the table now.


"We're waiting for an answer. We prefer a path of peaceful
negotiations because that is surely the best way forward, and
here's the way forward, and here's our offer and we'd like you to
accept it.


"But if you cannot accept it, there's another path called
sanctions and international economic and political pressure."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is flying to Sharm el-
Sheikh in Egypt for this week's conference on Iraq.


She has indicated that she would be prepared to talk about other
issues with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki,
including Iran's nuclear ambitions.


"Iran is playing a central role in the four great interconnected
crises in the Middle East that are part of American foreign
policy," Burns said, citing Tehran's alleged role in supporting
Shia militants in Iraq, militant groups like Lebanon's Hezbollah,
Iran itself and its nuclear programme and in the Israel-
Palestine conflict.


Washington has had no official contact with Tehran since 1980, he
reminded the audience.


"Right now, we're very much in conflict on the major issues of
the day, but you do have to have ambitions and our ambitions
would be to see these barriers come down," Burns said.


He added that the United States had been careful not to take any
options off the table -- including military options -- in the
Iran stand-off.

