

Fewer roses on a wintry Valentine's Day, less room for kids in
smaller cars and costlier holidays in the tropics: life in Norway
will be less glamorous but more climate-friendly as the country
aims to be the world's first "carbon neutral" economy by 2050.


When Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg on April 19 announced
Norway's pledge to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to zero,
the Scandinavian nation set the most ambitious climate target in
the world.


The UN's top experts are meeting in Bangkok this week to outline
options for reducing greenhouse-gas pollution, and the
Stoltenberg government is likely to scrutinise them closely as it
tailors its own programme of measures.


Perhaps no other country is the world is as well-placed as Norway
for meeting such a goal.


The country has population of just 4.6 million, who are well-
educated, sensitive about the environment -- and prosperous.
Fabulous revenues from oil and gas have left the country with a
treasure chest of hundreds of billions of dollars.


Despite these tremendous advantages, analysts say the task ahead
could be demanding.


And even with a massive national effort, the country will most
likely remain a net polluter by mid-century, which means it will
have to achieve the zero goal by "offsets" -- investing in Kyoto
Protocol-style projects that reduce pollution in other countries.


Norway already covers almost all of its electricity needs with
hydro, a "clean" energy source, so its CO2 reductions will have
to be made elsewhere, notably in the transport sector and in
flare-off from its offshore fields.


One of the most visible changes for Norwegians will be in
lifestyle.


Perishable foods flown in from around the world by airplane -- a
highly pollutant form of transport -- could be among the first
things to go in climate- conscious Norway.


"The price tags on products will have to reflect the distance
they have travelled," said Helge Drange, a scientist at the
Nansen environmental research centre.


"Roses from Africa and the Netherlands will be less affordable.
We will buy an increasing amount of local products," he said.


"Neither the manufacturer nor the consumer pay the true cost of
energy today," laments Pierre Perbos, head of the French
environmental activist group Reseau Action Climat-France.


"The climate is paying the price. It's completely absurd that
kerosene [aircraft fuel] is not taxed," he added.


That means low-cost flights could be a thing of the past for
Norwegians, as ticket prices would have to be increased to
compensate for the CO2 emissions of each flight.


Other choices, though, are more complex.


Because transport and foreign labour are so cheap for Norwegians,
more than half of the fish caught off Norway in the Barents Sea
is sent all the way to China to be fileted before being sent back
to the Scandinavian nation for sale.


That leaves Norway with a dilemma. It could add a hefty carbon
tax for fish that it has caught just off its own coast or
repatriate the fish-processing industry to Norway so that
consumers can "buy locally."


But it would also have to hire foreign workers to man the fish-
gutting lines, as few Norwegians are keen on doing such work
these days.


As for road transport, financial incentives will encourage owners
of SUVs and other large vehicles to buy smaller, energy-efficient
cars run on hybrid engines and, eventually, hydrogen power,
pending major technological advances in the field.


Residential areas and offices will also be concentrated in the
same area for more efficient energy use and to optimize public
transport.


The country is expected to emit 60 million tonnes of carbon
dioxide in 2012.


At current prices -- generally seen by experts as far too low --
Norway could buy CO2 quotas to cover its emissions for a billion
euros (1.36 billion dollars) a year, according to the European
research and analysis organisation Point Carbon.


That is a drop in the bucket compared to the wealth that Norway
has generated from its offshore fields.


Investment in cleaner-technology projects abroad would be most
cost-effective if it were spent abroad, in big developing
countries such as China and India, than in Norway, some will
argue.


On the other hand, simply writing a cheque to write off one's
pollution would be hotly contested in a country where green
issues and devout Christianity are firmly entrenched.


Norway has a "moral responsibility" to develop new technologies
that are out-of- reach for other countries precisely because it
has built its riches on dirty fossil fuels, said Frederic Hauge,
head of the Norwegian environmental organisation Bellona.


And, he notes, "there's a lot of money to be made in this
sector."

