

The Spanish press on Monday celebrated the birth of the second
child, a daughter, to Crown Prince Felipe and Princess Letizia.


The press also underlined that the Constitution needed to be
amended if female members of the royal family were to have the
right to accede to the Spanish throne.


Every Spanish daily newspaper devoted its front page to the birth
of Princess Sofia, which "pleased not only the royal family, but
also the whole of Spanish society, the majority of which feels a
very sincere affection for Prince Felipe and Princess Letizia",
according to the conservative daily La Razon.


However, the birth on Sunday of another daughter, after Leonor in
October 2005, "fuels further the debate regarding constitutional
reform to eliminate the discrimination that woman face to be
crowned", added the paper.


If Felipe and Letizia were to have a male child, he would replace
his elder sisters as heir to the throne under the current
constitution.


According to La Razon, which devotes 12 pages to the birth, the
situation is "totally absurd" and "anachronistic".


Sofia, who is named after her grandmother, the wife of King Juan
Carlos, is the third in line to the throne after her father
Felipe and her sister Leonor.


The Socialist government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has put
on hold constitutional reform regarding the accession to the
Crown, despite announcing it as one of its priorities when coming
to power in 2004.


The centre-left daily newspaper El Pais, which is close to the
government, covered the story in much less depth, giving the
subject only two pages, while the liberal paper El Mundo
concentrated on the possibility of a third child for the royal
couple.


Letizia's two daughthers were delivered by Caesarian section,
which would make a third pregnancy more difficult, explained El
Mundo's medical expert.


For its part, the conservative daily ABC boasted that "once
again, through a simple biological fact, a birth, the Royal
Family epitomises the permanence, the continuity and the
institutional stability of the Spanish state".

