

The fight to stop the spread of nuclear weapons is in serious
crisis, Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik said Monday in
opening a conference on the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.


"Let us not mince words, the NPT is in a serious crisis today,"
Plassnik told the gathering of the 188 states that have signed
the 1970 treaty.


The meeting on the landmark NPT comes with Iran under UN
sanctions for failing to stop uranium enrichment and as an
agreement to dismantle North Korea's nuclear program, which
unlike Iran has actually produced atomic bombs, has stalled.


Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano, the chairman of the meeting in
Vienna said: "It is not secret that the NPT has had serious
challenges," adding that "issues related to the DPRK (North
Korea) and Iran have become more pressing."


The international community "can not afford to be complacent,"
Amano said.


Plassnik proposed setting up a multilateral, international
nuclear fuel bank so that there "should no longer (be) concern
about potential misuses of fuel" for military purposes by
individual nations, such as Iran.


The United States wants to make it harder for nations to withdraw
from the NPT, US delegation chief Christopher Ford said in an
interview with AFP on Sunday.


"A country that is in violation (of the NPT) needs to be held
accountable for its violations and just the fact that it
withdraws shouldn't be a way of erasing past misdeeds," Ford
said.


The NPT, which went into effect at the height of the Cold War in
1970 and was extended indefinitely in 1995, is reviewed every
five years. The last such meeting in 2005 failed to resolve any
key questions, with non-aligned countries and nuclear powers
bickering over an agenda.


The Vienna meeting is the first of a series of preparatory
sessions ahead of the next overall review in 2010.


Beyond the proliferation concerns raised by Iran and North Korea,
there is also concern that the NPT, a deal under which nuclear
weapons states agree to disarm while those nations without the
bomb agree not to seek it, is threatened by the new US strategy
to use pre-emptive force if judged necessary and Britain's
upgrading of its nuclear arsenal.


Experts agree that the NPT is ill adapted to the modern era,
where so-called rogue states seek to acquire a nuclear weapons
capacity by first developing peaceful programs under the terms of
the treaty.


Proposed fixes include having all states sign on to tougher UN
inspections under an Additional Protocol to the NPT.


There also are calls for some NPT safeguard requirements to
remain in effect even if states withdraw from the treaty and for
dropout nations to be required to return material supplied by
international suppliers for nuclear programs that had been
promised to be peaceful.


North Korea withdrew from the NPT in 2003, shortly after kicking
out United Nations inspectors. North Korea tested an atomic bomb
last October.


Iran justifies its nuclear work under Article IV of the NPT,
which guarantees "the inalienable right . . . to develop
research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful
purposes."


But the United States charges that Iran is using this as a cover
for the secret development of nuclear weapons, something that is
banned by the treaty.


Still, George Perkovich, a non-proliferation analyst at the
Washington-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, has
called the NPT "the most effective treaty in history," referring
to the fact that predictions made in the 1960s that there would
soon be 30-40 nuclear weapons states have not come to pass.


There are believed to be nine nuclear weapons states. They are
the five allowed under the NPT, Britain, China, France, Russia
and the United States, the one which withdrew from the treaty,
North Korea, and three nuclear states -- India, Pakistan and
Israel -- which have refused to sign it.

