

Five men, including one who claimed to work for Al-Qaeda's number
three and had links to the 2005 London suicide bombers, were
convicted Monday of plotting deadly bomb attacks on British
targets.


The men were among seven alleged to have conspired to cause
explosions at a central London nightclub and shopping centre, as
well as hit gas and electricity supplies using bombs made from
chemical fertiliser.


One also discussed trying to buy a radioactive "dirty bomb" from
the Russian mafia but nothing appeared to have come from his
enquiries, the year-long trial at London's Central Criminal Court
was told.


Omar Khyam, who boasted of working for Al-Qaeda's number three,
Abdul Hadi, also had links to the presumed ringleader of the July
7, 2005 suicide attacks on London, Mohamed Sidique Khan, but the
information was kept from the jury.


The two met each other at least four times in England while Khyam
was under surveillance by Britain's domestic intelligence
service, MI5, in the final stages of plotting.


Khyam also met another of the bombers, Shehzad Tanweer. The
suicide attacks killed the four bombers and 52 other people.


The seven were arrested on March 30, 2004 after more than half a
tonne of fertiliser was discovered in a storage facility in west
London.


The jury began deliberating their verdicts on March 16 but have
not sat every day. Their decision came on the 27th day of
discussions.


Omar Khyam, 25, Anthony Garcia, 25, Jawad Akbar, 23, Waheed
Mahmood, 35, and 32 -year-old Salahuddin Amin were all convicted
of conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life.


Two of their co-defendants -- Shujah Mahmood, 20, and 22-year-old
Nabeel Hussain -- were cleared of the same charge.


Khyam and Garcia were found guilty of possessing 600 kilogrammes
of ammonium nitrate fertiliser for terrorist purposes. Hussain,
who faced the same charge, was cleared.


Khyam was also convicted of possessing aluminium powder for
terrorist purposes. Shujah Mahmood was cleared of that charge.


All the men had pleaded not guilty, denying there was a
conspiracy. Some said they did not know what the fertiliser was,
that they were only interested in sending money and supplies to
Afghanistan and Kashmir or they were duped.


The terror cell was said to have schemed with an American called
Mohammed Junaid Babar, who admitted his role after being arrested
by the FBI and became a vital prosecution witness, and Mohammed
Momin Khawaja.


Khawaja is awaiting trial in Canada.

