

England and Australia are among the countries on FIFA's list of
contingency options to host the 2010 World Cup should South
Africa fail to meet organisational deadlines, FIFA president Sepp
Blatter said.


South Africa will become the first African nation to host
football's four-year showpiece event in three years' time, but
reports of delays in stadium construction work have raised
questions of the tournament being staged there.


FIFA remain confident that all necessary facilities will be ready
in time but Blatter feels FIFA need to keep options open in case
there are any unforeseen problems.


Asked if England or Australia were fall-back options should the
South African organisation falter, Blatter told the BBC's Inside
Sport programme:


"Yes, but there are other countries that are ready to organise
tomorrow morning or in two days, or two months, a World Cup. The
United States of America, and Mexico, they can do it, Japan, they
can do it. They have enough stadia."


Blatter appeared to give his support to the 2010 hosts when he
added: "You say England can do it, and I am sure. Spain, they can
do it. There are a lot of countries, but they don't need to be
ready."


Fears over the lack of construction and renovation work on the 10
South African stadiums to host the World Cup were expressed by
Blatter last year.


However FIFA appeared to give the Africans their full backing in
March, when Blatter declared: "South Africa, we trust you.


"The executive committee is now convinced that South Africa will
be a good host for the World Cup."


In December South African President Thabo Mbeki rejected claims
that the tournament could be held elsewhere, insisting the 2010
World Cup would be an "exceptional event".


Meanwhile England's Football Association said they had not
discussed any plans with FIFA for the tournament to move to
England.


"There have been no discussions with FIFA at this stage," a
spokesman told BBC Sport.


"We do believe we have some of the finest stadia and football
infrastructure in the world but it's hypothetical as we
understand South Africa are on course to stage the 2010 World
Cup."

