

Malians waited anxiously Monday for the result of weekend
elections expected to return incumbent President Amadou Toumani
Toure for another five-year term.


The west African country's fourth successive democratic
presidential vote since the ousting 16 years ago of a military
dictatorship passed peacefully Sunday.


Eight candidates vied for the top job in one of Africa's largest
but most impoverished countries, which has made significant
democratic strides in the past 15 years.


The first official results were due to start trickling in Monday
but full results should be ready around Wednesday or Thursday,
given the huge size of the country, which lies on the edge of the
Sahara desert.


But unofficial partial results given out by several private radio
stations early Monday based on few districts showed Toure clearly
leading the pack.


"It would appear that the outgoing president is largely ahead of
Ibrahim Boubacar Keita (the main opposition candidate), but these
are very, very partial assessments," said a source in the
registrar general's office which organises the elections.


The opposition has already started crying foul, suspecting fraud
in parts of the country.


"We have had an inkling of fraud, of which we await
confirmation," said Djiguiba Keita, spokesman for the main
opposition coalition, the Front for Democracy and the Republic.


Key opposition figure Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, a former prime
minister and head of the national assembly, is a member of the
coalition.


A former cabinet minister and now opposition politician, Tiebile
Drame of the Party for National Revival, claimed "widespread
fraud" in the polls but also did not elaborate.


No incident was reported either in the run-up to or during the
election.


About 1,000 observers posted across the 1.2 million square
kilometre (478,800 square mile) country in the heart of west
Africa, are yet to give their overall impression of the vote.


Toure is a former general who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in
1991 and installed a multi-party system before stepping aside in
1992.


Ten years later he returned to the political scene, stood for
presidential elections and won easily.


The 58-year-old does not have a political party but enjoys the
backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small parties,
including the Tuareg ex-rebels who once waged a separatist war in
the northeast.


Overall voter turnout was low with the poll supervisory body, the
national independent electoral commission (CENI), estimating it
hovered around 38 percent, which it said was similar to that
recorded in 2002 elections.


Observers had in the run-up to the polls expressed fears of voter
apathy after fewer than two-thirds of the roughly 6.8 million
eligible voters bothered to collect their electoral cards.


Despite being the third largest gold producer in Africa after
South Africa and Ghana, the former French colony is the world's
third poorest country, according to the United Nations.

