

Turkish financial markets were in turmoil on Monday as the
Turkish lira fell sharply and the stock market plunged following
a weekend of political uncertainty that unsettled investors.


A tense stand-off between the Islamist-rooted government and the
secularist Turkish army over presidential elections risks
unnerving foreign investors who have returned to the high-growth
country since a financial crisis in 2001, analysts said.


"Turkish markets will obviously be driven by politics this week,"
said economist Claire Dissaux at Calyon, an investment bank.


The leading index on the Turkish stock exchange, which groups the
100 biggest Turkish companies, fell 8.0 percent at the opening on
Monday before rising slightly off its lows.


In midday trading, it showed a loss of 6.23 percent.


The Turkish currency, the lira, opened 4.0 percent weaker against
the euro and lost about 4.4 percent against the dollar, its
biggest fall since a broad selloff hit emerging country markets
in May and June last year.


Tensions rose late Friday when, hours after a first, inconclusive
round of voting in parliament for a new president, the army
General Staff issued a stiff statement threatening to take action
if the government did not do more to preserve the republic's
secular tradition.


The government responded the next day in words just as strong by
calling the General Staff to order and reminding it that it
remained under the orders of the prime minister's office.


"After the army stepped in, everything changed. We all remember
what happened 10 years ago," said analyst Arzu Odabasi at Global
Securities, a brokerage.


She was referring to the ousting in 1997 of Turkey's first
Islamist prime minister Necmettin Erbakan after strong pressure
from the army, which accused him of damaging Muslim-majority
Turkey's jealously guarded secular system.


"For the moment, the situation is confused," she said. "We have
48 hours to get all this over with and then we'll see things more
clearly."


The army has three toppled governments in recent Turkish history,
in 1960, 1971 and in 1980.


The military move followed legal action by the opposition to have
the Constitutional Court, Turkey's highest tribunal, annul the
first round of the election whose sole candidate is Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist.


The court is expected to return a verdict within 48 hours, before
the second round of voting on Wednesday afternoon.


Dissaux at Calyon said the financial instability on Monday was
because investors "had practically failed over the past few weeks
to price any of the risks related to the election period, with
the lira at its strongest level versus the dollar since May 2006
and equities booming."


In early morning trade in London, the European single currency
climbed as high as 1.8976 Turkish lira -- which was the highest
level since mid-March and compared with 1.82 lira late on Friday.


The dollar meanwhile rose to 1.3932 Turkish lira, compared with
1.3350 late on Friday.


The Istanbul stock market plunged 8.0 percent at the opening
Monday losing 3,745.2 points from Friday's close.


Analyst Nicolas Bouzou at French research group Asteres said the
political uncertainty risked scaring foreign investors and the
army's role in Turkish public life could scupper the country's
bid to join the European Union.


"If the situation gets worse, if the army's interference in the
democratic process is more visible, then that could dissuade
companies from investing in Turkey," he warned.


Turkey has staged an impressive economic recovery since the
current government stormed to power in 2002, ending more than a
decade of weak coalition governments.


Inflation, which stood at 29.7 percent in 2002, has been reduced
to 9.65 percent in 2006, and economic growth averaged more than
7.0 percent between 2003 and 2006, compared with an average of
2.6 percent in the decade to 2002.


Analysts believe further political stability is crucial as Turkey
needs to address remaining weaknesses in its booming 400-billion-
dollar economy, such as a record current account deficit of 31.3
billion dollars in 2006.

