

Former Premiership giants Leeds will welcome interest from only
real investors after a latest league setback left them teetering
on the edge of relegation to England's third division.


A 1-1 draw with Ipswich at Elland Road all but doomed Dennis
Wise's side to League One football, which is effectively
England's third division after the Premiership and Championship.


Speculation is gathering pace regarding the future of Leeds with
some reports claiming the former Premiership side could go into
administration within seven days, or be taken over.


But ahead of a make-or-break final Championship match against
Derby next week, chief executive Shaun Harvey has urged would-be
investors to put up or shut up if they really want to help Leeds
bounce back.


Chairman Ken Bates has also insisted plans were already in hand
for Wise to get Leeds back up at the first attempt.


Harvey said: "It is important that we take time to reflect on all
the factors that have seen us relegated, barring a miracle at
Derby next week.


"We need to make considered and structured decisions both on and
off the field over the forthcoming weeks to position ourselves to
use next season as a springboard to go forward from.


"There will be (and has been) a significant amount of speculation
as to what the future holds for the club financially,
particularly from would-be investors who want to become
involved/own Leeds United.


"This type of speculation is currently rife ... but our message
remains consistent in so much as anyone interested in becoming
financially involved should contact us with full details of who
they are and proof of funds to show they are able to assist us."


BBC Radio Five Live reported Monday, citing a well-placed source,
that the club could go into administration within a week.


But chairman Bates, 75, played down that suggestion and has
jumped to defend Wise, who failed to halt the slide at Elland
Road after being appointed Kevin Blackwell's successor in
October.


Bates told the Yorkshire Post: "Dennis has done a much better job
than many people realise.


"We were in a much worse position when Dennis came in than people
know about.


"Some of the difficulties he inherited cannot be made public, but
there were real problems in the dressing room. The playing side
was in complete disarray."


Bates added: "On Monday we will start the first day of the 2007/8
promotion season.


"We can now have a complete clean out and start again. It's time
to look forwards, not backwards."

