

Asian stocks closed mostly lower on Monday as investors shrugged
off last week's record close on Wall Street and instead focussed
on slowing US economic data and monetary policy in China.


US gross domestic product (GDP) growth showed the world's largest
economy had cooled dramatically to 1.3 percent in the first
quarter of 2007, highlighting concerns the US might slip into a
recession.


Despite slowing growth, New York struck another record close but
investors in the Asia Pacific region were less than convinced by
the state of the US -- and equally -- prospects for China.


In Shanghai, the benchmark ignored a central bank raising of the
reserve requirements for its banks to help cool an overheating
economy and surged 2.17 percent to another record close.


Investors elsewhere feared that Chinese move could be just a
curtain raiser to a mainland interest rate hike and amid fears
for the US economy Taipei fell 0.93 percent, Singapore was down
1.1 percent and Hong Kong slumped 1.01 percent.


Kuala Lumpur shed a more modest 0.19 percent, Jakarta was down
1.0 percent, Manila fell 1.44 percent and Mumbai was 0.26 percent
lower.


However, Sydney, Wellington and Bangkok stuck with Wall Street's
record lead and rose 0.23 percent, 0.31 percent and 0.58 percent
respectively.


Tokyo was closed for a public holiday.


TOKYO: Closed.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 1.01 percent lower on worries
China may announce further credit-tightening measures, including
an interest rate hike, after raising the reserves requirement
ratio of commercial banks.


Dealers said investors also locked in profits ahead of the Labor
Day holiday, which will see the local market shut Tuesday and the
mainland bourses closed for a week.


The People's Bank of China (PBoC), China's central bank,
announced on Sunday that it will raise the reserve requirement
for commercial banks by another 50 basis points, effective May
15.


The latest hike, which takes the required reserves ratio of most
Chinese banks to 11 percent, is the seventh such move by the PBoC
since the middle of last year and the second in a little over a
month.


The Hang Seng index closed down 207.52 points at 20,318.98.
Turnover was 49.84 billion Hong Kong dollars (6.4 billion US).


"Investors expect further credit-tightening measures from
China... and decided to lock in profits before any such
announcement," said Kitty Chan, director at Celestial Asia
Securities.


"Hedge funds seems to be squaring off positions and are using the
announcement of a reserve requirement hike as an excuse to take
profits," she added.


HSBC down 0.20 at 144.30.


SEOUL: Shares closed flat with investors taking to the sidelines
before a market holiday amid concerns about possible higher
interest rates in China.


Dealers said sentiment was also depressed by a downbeat service
sector report for March, which raised concerns over a possible
rapid slowdown in private consumption.


The KOSPI index ended down 0.28 points at 1,542.24. Volume was
308 million shares worth 3.2 trillion won (3.44 billion dollars).


"The market lost some steam after the recent record-breaking
rally and investors took a rest ahead of the holiday," said
Samsung Securities analyst Oh Hyun-Seok.


He said financials, steels and some IT stocks lost on
institutional profit- taking while machinery and shipping stocks
rallied on continued foreign investor interest, helping the
broader market trim earlier losses.


"Market players will likely stay cautious until they see more
visibility over the US economy and China's rate policy," he
added, referring to expectations that Beijing will tighten
interest rates at some point in an effort to cool the runaway
Chinese economy.


Samsung Electronics dropped 6,000 won to 574,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.93 percent lower after Beijing
tightened liquidity again over the weekend, sparking concerns
China could be ready to take more measures to cool its runway
economy.


Dealers said sentiment was also undermined by a local report that
Taiwan believes it will be difficult to encourage more Chinese
tourists given Beijing's sensitivities over the political
ramifications from such a move on relations with its longstanding
rival.


The weighted index lost 74.00 points at 7,875.42 on turnover of
83.18 billion dollars (2.50 billion US).


Fuhwa Securities Corp assistant vice president Samson Chueh said
the tourism sector was badly hit by the China Times report on
prospects for attracting more mainland visitors.


At the same time, the broader market was under pressure from fund
redemptions as investors sought to pocket profits made earlier
this year.


"The Chinese tourist (report) put additional pressure on the
local bourse, which had already been pressured by fund managers
and from concerns over some corporate results," Chueh said.


Thin volumes also pointed to continued caution ahead of the tax
season, he added.


"Individuals are to file tax reports next month. Some are selling
their shareholdings to prepare for tax payments," Chueh added.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co was down 0.30 dollars at
68.70.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed 2.17 percent higher as investors
shrugged off concerns about the central bank's latest move to
tighten credit and cool the roaring economy.


Dealers said property and retail stocks were in favour buoyed by
strength in the yuan as punters ignored the central bank's
announcement Sunday that it would raise the amount of money banks
must hold in reserve by 50 basis points.


Sunday's notice made for the fourth time the central bank has
hiked the required reserve ratio since January as regulators
fight to stem rising liquidity in the financial system that in
turns drives up lending and eventually causes economic
overheating.


Last month, it also raised the benchmark one-year lending rate by
0.27 percentage points, in another move to slow an economy that
raced ahead at 11.1 percent growth in the first quarter.


Although the latest decision on banks' reserve requirements will
not take effect until May 15, analysts warned some corrections
were expected after this week's Labour day holidays.


They said that investors remain somewhat concerned about the plan
to launch index futures -- a hedging tool that can sometimes
spark volatility -- especially since Chinese share prices remain
sky-high.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 81.41 points at 3,841.27.
Turnover was heavy at 185.96 billion yuan (24 billion dollars).


"The market continued to perform strongly despite the bank
reserve ratio hike, partly because of the strength in the yuan,
as the yuan will appreciate further if the central bank raises
interest rates again," said Zhang Yi, an analyst at Yibang
Investment.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 0.23 percent higher as investors were
buoyed by another record finish on Wall Street Friday despite
weaker than expected first quarter US growth figures.


The S&P/ASX 200 ended up 14.4 points at 6,166. A total of
1.56 billion shares worth 5.3 billion dollars (4.3 billion US)
were traded.


Bell Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said the
market maintained gains despite a tendency for profit taking at
the end of the month.


"The market's up but with not much conviction and volumes," he
said.


Smith noted some analysts see the Australian sharemarket as at
the beginning of another four-year bull-run, but said the
holidays in Asia and Europe over this week are likely to see
trading continue subdued.


"I see the market trailing off for the rest of the week," Smith
said.


Dealers said investors bought the large banks ahead of the
release of some of their annual reports this week, while support
was also seen in resource stocks after the rise of base metal
prices in London trading on Friday.


Uranium stocks rose after the Australian Labor Party reversed its
long-held "three-mines" policy which could expand uranium mining
given state government approval.


Energy Resources of Australia rose 0.74 to 25.22 dollars.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 1.1 percent lower ahead of the
Labor Day holiday and concerns China might raise interest rates.


Dealers said China's announcement at the weekend that it will
raise the reserve requirement for commercial banks by 50 basis
points from May 15 renewed concerns about Beijing's moves to cool
economic growth.


The Straits Times Index (STI) fell 37.31 points to 3,361.29 on
volume of 2.23 billion shares worth 2.31 billion Singapore
dollars (1.53 billion US).


"There is anticipation that the Chinese government may again
raise interest rates soon to cool off the 'red hot' economy as
well as taking possible measures to curb stock market
speculation," DBS Vickers said in a note to clients.


Some analysts said they expect robust corporate earnings to perk
up stock market sentiment this week.


"For this week, we expect the STI's short-term uptrend to remain
intact despite mixed signals from its indicators," CIMB-GK
brokerage said.


"The index may attempt to retest its all time high of 3,452 soon.
Failing to break above this high would likely mean that the bulls
are weak and a reversal is likely."


Singapore Telecommunications fell 0.08 to 3.32.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.19 percent lower in quiet
trade amid concerns that a slowdown in the US economy may be
sharper than earlier expected.


Dealers said investors were also reluctant to take any solid
positions ahead of the upcoming holidays this week.


The composite index closed down 2.52 points at 1,322.25 on
turnover of 1.163 billion shares, worth 2.055 billion ringgit
(600.8 million dollars).


Dealers said trading is likely to remain lacklustre during the
rest of the week given the fewer trading days.


The market will be closed Tuesday for Labor Day and on Wednesday
for the Wesak Day holiday.


MIMB head of research Pong Teng Siew said the sluggish
performance had been expected, based on the weaker-than-forecast
US economic growth for the first quarter.


"It's the worst first-quarter results since March 2003," Pong
said, adding that the latest US growth figures of 1.3 percent in
its first quarter this year increased the risk that the US
economy may slip into a recession.


Maybank shed 0.10 ringgit to 12.00.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.58 percent higher, against losses
in other regional markets, as foreign investors bought heavy-
weight energy and telecommunication stocks.


Dealers said positive momentum of foreign buyings is likely to
push the Thai index to break the key 700-point barrier when it
resumes trading Wednesday. The Thai market is closed Tuesday for
a public holiday.


The composite index gained 4.05 points to 699.16 on turnover of
1.4 billion shares worth 11.29 billion baht (324 million
dollars).


"Buyings of foreign investors supported the Thai market to
outperform other regional stocks which mostly closed lower
today," said Adisak Kammool, a senior market analyst at KGI
Securities.


"Investors shifted from banking stocks to buy energy and
telecommunication shares, on expectations (that the latter) would
have brighter financial results in the second quarter," he said.


Thai Airways International slipped 0.25 to 46.75.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 1.0 percent lower on profit-taking
in blue chips after last week's record-breaking run.


Dealers added that though the main index ended off its lows for
the day as a result of gains in some small cap counters.


The composite index closed down 20.509 points at 1,999.167 on
volume of 6.82 billion shares worth 4.11 trillion rupiah (452.39
million dollars).


"Even as most blue chips were hit by profit-taking, many small
caps stocks rallied ... I think this trade in the small stocks
was highly speculative," Lanang Trihardian, an analyst with
brokerage firm Erdika Elit said.


He added that the profit-taking in blue chips was healthy given
their recent gains, but further a sharp downside is unlikely in
the near term.


Telkom lost 250 rupiah to 10,500.


MANILA: Share prices closed 1.44 percent lower in a muted session
with investors opting to take profits on a lack of fresh leads.


Dealers said investors were also exercising caution ahead of the
May 14 mid-term elections, which many see as a referendum on
President Gloria Arroyo's government.


The composite index dropped 47.65 points to 3,270.73. A total of
4.5 billion shares worth 3.4 billion pesos (723 million dollars)
were traded.


"There is always that uncertainty before and after every
election, so we can expect the market to move sideways in the
coming weeks and even shortly after that, a consolidation will
take place," said Joseph Roxas of Eagle Equities.


Lawrence de Leon of Accord Capital Equities noted that the
average value turnover in recent weeks has been declining,
although there has been no heavy selling.


"The daily value turnover average is going down, partly because
investors are not buying aggressively as the elections are very
close," he said.


"Investors are either unwinding positions, while others are
reducing their holdings portfolio."


Conglomerate Ayala Corp shed 15 to 600.


WELLINGTON: Share prices rose 0.31 percent following gains in
market leader Telecom ahead of its quarterly results later this
week.


The NZX-50 gross index closed up 13.19 points at 4,194.64 on
light turnover worth 77.6 million dollars (57.3 million US).


"Corporate activity would be the only thing that keeps the focus
on the market because valuation-wise, it's a real stretch," said
David Price of Forsyth Barr.


Telecom rose four cents to 4.83 dollars ahead of its third
quarter results on Thursday. Analysts expect net profit will be
little changed from 222 million dollars last year.


The focus was on a surprise 277 million dollar takeover bid for
Tourism Holdings from Australia's MFS Living and Leisure.


The news pushed THL shares up 47 cents or nearly 21 percent to a
seven-year high of 2.74 dollars, slightly below the offer of 2.80
cash for each share.


"The bid is conditional on 90 percent -- there's two people above
10 percent (holders) and there's someone who's not very far away
from that as well, so the deal swings on whether they act," Price
said.


MUMBAI: Share prices fell 0.26 percent as investors continued to
unwind positions after a sharp run-up last week on improved
quarterly earnings by Indian companies.


Dealers said investors chose to lock-in profits ahead of a two-
day holiday starting Tuesday.


The Mumbai 30-share Sensex index fell 36.21 points to 13,872.37.


"Investors continue to lock-in gains after an impressive set of
corporate earnings" for the quarter ended March, said Atul
Hatwar, dealer with brokerage Crosseas Securities.

