

Bangladesh has retained Habibul Bashar as  captain for the
upcoming one-day series against India following the team's
creditable show in the World Cup.


Batsman Rajin Saleh was the only omission from the team that
upset India and South Africa but lost to Ireland during an
eventful World Cup in the Caribbean.


The 34-year-old Bashar, who made only 93 runs in seven innings at
the World Cup, was retained as skipper because selectors felt he
led the team well in the showpiece event, chief selector Faruq
Ahmed said.


"The team performed well in the World Cup under Bashar. They also
developed a very good team spirit and beat some of the world's
big teams. So we did not think of changing the captaincy or
bringing any new face into the one-day squad," he said.


Bashar, who has been leading the side for more than three years,
hinted that he would quit one-day cricket after the India series.


"I do not intend to play one-day matches for that long. In fact,
before the World Cup I had thought of retiring from one-day
cricket," Bashar said.


"But I will soon announce my decision, after discussing with the
team members and the board officials," he said.


Bashar said he was happy that the selectors had kept faith in the
World Cup team.


Ace middle-order batsman Mohammad Ashraful was named as the new
vice-captain of the 14-member squad in place of Shahriar Nafees.


"We made Ashraful the vice-captain because he is a match-winner.
He has the talent and the track record," said Ahmed.


The first two one-dayers will be played in Dhaka on May 10 and
12, while the third will be held in Chittagong on May 15.


The Bangladeshi team for the two Test matches will be announced
after the one- day series.


India will arrive in the country on May 7 to play their third
away series against Bangladesh.


Bangladesh: Habibul Bashar (capt), Mohammad Ashraful (vice-
captain), Shahriar Nafees, Tamim Iqbal, Aftab Ahmed, Saqibul
Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim, Mohammad Rafique, Abdur Razzak, Mashrafe
Mortaza, Shahadat Hossain, Syed Rasel, Javed Omar and Farhad
Reza.


Coach: Dav Whatmore

