

International judges on the Khmer Rouge tribunal said Monday they
have resolved a dispute over fees for foreign defence counsel,
clearing the path to Cambodia's first genocide trials.


Demands by the Cambodian Bar Association that foreign lawyers pay
up to 4,900 US dollars a year to defend former Khmer rouge
leaders had stalled for months the adoption of regulations
necessary for the trials to take place.


While the Bar refused to back down to demands that it abandon the
fees, it did reduce them Friday to 500 dollars for the entire
period of the trials after weeks of crisis talks with various
foreign diplomats.


International judges said that they hoped that tribunal rules can
now be adopted by a full plenary of foreign and Cambodian judges
at the end of May.


In a statement they expressed "their hope that (the tribunal) can
move forward without further delay, so as to discharge its
historic responsibility to find justice for the Cambodian
people."


The jurists had argued the high fees would discourage foreign
lawyers from joining the tribunal and deny defendants their right
to counsel.


But they said Monday they were confident the 500-dollar fee "will
not hinder international lawyers, particularly those working in a
pro bono capacity, from registering with the Cambodian Bar and
taking part in the historic work of the (tribunal)."


After nearly a decade of tough negotiations and many setbacks,
the first trials of former Khmer Rouge leaders were initially
expected this year.


But repeated delays mean trials are not likely to start until
early 2008, officials say.


"Once the internal rules are adopted, the judicial investigation
can start in the following weeks," co-investigating judge Marcel
Lemonde said earlier.


"It's difficult, at this stage, to say precisely when the public
trials will take place but it seems difficult now to have them
before the beginning of 2008," he added.


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that ageing Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


So far, only one possible defendant is in custody.


The only other person arrested for crimes committed during the
Khmer Rouge's 1975-79 rule, military commander Ta Mok, died in
prison last July, while Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot died in 1998.


Up to two million people died of overwork or starvation, or were
executed, under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

