

France's World Cup-winning goalkeeper Fabien Barthez has quit his
club Nantes for safety reasons following a violent post-match
run-in with a group of disgruntled supporters.


"I'm not going to play for Nantes again. I don't feel ready to
live like that," said the 87-time capped keeper who arrived at
Nantes during the winter transfer window.


"I don't feel safe there and I'd just prefer to leave."


Basement side Nantes succumbed to a 2-0 home defeat to Rennes on
Saturday, and after just five minutes into the match, Barthez
became the target of insults from certain sections of the Nantes
support.


Five supporters accosted him in the stadium car park after the
game, insulting him and then attacking his car as he tried to
drive away from the scene.


Barthez was forced to fight back as one of his assailants tried
to pull him from the driver's seat.


"It's got nothing to do with the football or the results,"
Barthez told France Info radio. "What happened goes beyond the
sporting realm... and without that I would have stayed with
Nantes until the end."


He added: "I accepted being whistled throughout a match because
that's part of the game."


Barthez, 35, has been unsettled since joining Nantes in January
and been accused on several occasions of feigning injury to avoid
training.


In his 14 matches with the club, the former Marseille and
Manchester United keeper has conceded 23 goals.


Barthez's agent Jean-Marie Cantona said it was too early to talk
about whether the much-decorated keeper would play on.


"It's too early to talk about that," Cantona told AFP. "For the
moment, he's focused on his family, taking some time off with his
family in the southwest (of France) and will stay there for some
time."


Nantes moved immediately to cancel Barthez's contract.


"Given the incidents that occurred after the Nantes v Rennes
match of April 28, Fabien Barthez asked to break his contract
sine die. FC Nantes-Atlantique understands and accepts this
request," the club said.


"Given the good relations that the club enjoys with its
goalkeeper, it has been decided to break the contract in an
amicable way as from now."

