

World oil prices fell on Monday on profit-taking after sharp
gains last week following news of a possible terrorist plot in
key crude producer Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
lost 52 cents to 67.89 dollars per barrel in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, slid 55 cents to 65.91 dollars per barrel in
floor trading, after soaring by 1.40 dollars on Friday.


"Crude futures were a little lower (on Monday), coming off strong
gains on Friday after Saudi Arabia announced it had foiled an
attack on oil facilities, which was linked to al-Qaeda," said
Sucden analyst Michael Davies in London.


"This news, once again, highlighted remaining geopolitical
concerns surrounding the Middle East and potential risks to oil
supplies."


Crude futures had surged as Saudi Arabia said it had arrested a
ring of alleged militants plotting airborne attacks on oil
facilities and army bases.


The news from the world's biggest oil exporter overshadowed weak
first-quarter growth data in the United States, which showed the
economy expanding by its weakest pace in four years.


Prices also rose last week on supply fears over crude producers
Iran and Nigeria, and concerns over tight US gasoline reserves
heading into the peak- demand season for American motor fuel.


"There is a lack of upward momentum" in the oil market, said
Global Insight analyst Simon Wardell.


He added that "we didn't see the kind of potential violence in
Nigeria we had expected" after recent elections in Africa's
biggest crude-producing nation.


Analysts said tensions surrounding Iran had also eased after the
Islamic republic said it would attend a key conference on Iraq's
security in Egypt alongside the United States this week.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice did not rule out a meeting
her Iranian counterpart on the sidelines of the conference on
Iraq security, but said Iraq would be the only issue on the
agenda for the two nations.


US-Iranian relations have been strained further by Tehran's
nuclear program, which Washington charges masks an atomic weapons
program, despite the country's insistence that it is only for
civilian nuclear power.


Traders are concerned that Western pressure on Iran -- the
world's fourth- largest oil exporter -- could prompt it to cut
crude exports in retaliation.

