

Rafa Benitez has taunted Jose  Mourinho ahead of Liverpool's
Champions League semi-final decider by claiming Chelsea are under
even more pressure after suffering a huge setback to their title
hopes.


Chelsea carry the advantage into Tuesday's second leg after
establishing a narrow 1-0 first leg at Stamford Bridge last week.


But Benitez is confident his players can still make it through
and believes the title blow Chelsea suffered at the weekend has
left the big-spending London club scrambling to salvage their
season.


Chelsea were held 2-2 at home by Bolton, leaving them five points
adrift of leaders Manchester United with three games left.


"It's clear they will be under pressure because they were talking
about trophies, trophies, trophies," said Liverpool manager
Benitez.


"Now, maybe, they have one less to go for. The Champions League
will be their priority now and they will be more dangerous
because they want to win it."


Despite trailing from the first leg, Benitez said his players can
make it another special European Anfield night by scoring the two
goals they need to reach the final.


"We approach the second leg with confidence," added Benitez.


"It's very important we play with a high tempo from the
beginning, but we also have to be patient.


"We have to be well organised because if we concede one goal then
it's going to be really difficult.


"But we have confidence. Two seasons ago in the Champions League
we conceded against Olympiakos and needed to score three goals in
the second half which we did. But it will be better if we score
two goals and don't concede.


"I don't like to talk about who is the favourite. They lead 1-0
and they have an advantage. We know we need to play really well
against a good team. For me it's not the key if they are the
favourites or if we are favourites. It's more important if we
have confidence.


"We didn't play well in the first leg and conceded one goal. We
only had six or seven players playing at a good level but if we
have 10 or 11 then we have a very good chance."


Chelsea will be without influential defender Ricardo Carvalho,
but Benitez insists Chelsea still have enough quality to pose a
major threat to Liverpool's hopes of being crowned European
champions for a sixth time.


"If Carvalho can't play then I think they will still have enough
quality in the squad. I don't think he's more important than John
Terry, but I'm not worried about who will play for Chelsea. I'm
more concerned about my team."


Xabi Alonso believes Liverpool are stronger than two seasons ago
when they won the competition after defeating Chelsea at the same
stage.


But the Spanish midfielder insists Liverpool, who are set to
recall Peter Crouch to the attack, must perform much better than
they did last week - or forget the final in Athens on May 23.


"I think this side is better than two years ago, but at this
point I think Chelsea are favourites," said Alonso, who helped
defet Chelsea 2-0 in the league at Anfield in January.


"It's important we don't concede a goal because it will make the
situation more complicated.


"We know we made some mistakes at Stamford Bridge and it's
important we don't do that again.


"Chelsea have the goal and they didn't concede at home. It's
going to have to be a patience exercise from our point of view.


"Chelsea are a very good team. They are the current Premiership
champions. They haven't achieved that level in Europe and that's
something they want to change this season. It's something we
can't let them achieve.


"I think both sides are feeling the pressure. We are feeling our
own pressure because we know it's our big chance to lift a trophy
and this is going to be the most important game of the season so
far."

