

Poland's former strongman Wojciech Jaruzelski, charged with
committing a "communist crime" by declaring martial law in 1981
to curb the rise of the Solidarity movement, on Monday apologised
to the victims.


The 83-year-old general apologised to "all the victims" of the
nine-year crackdown that followed in an interview with the
Italian daily La Repubblica.


"I was under pressure by internal and external forces. I still
suffer today, I offer my apologies to those who unduly suffered,
to those who may have been unjustly arrested. I apologise to all
the victims," said Jaruzelski, who faces 10 years in jail if
convicted.


Thousands of arrests were made and dozens of people were killed
in clashes after Jaruzelski, as head of the Polish government and
communist party, outlawed the Solidarity trade union, led by
future president Lech Walesa.


Solidarity, the first non-communist trade union federation in a
communist country, had been founded in September 1980 at the then
Lenin Shipyards following a series of major strikes.


Almost two decades after the fall of communism, Poland last month
kicked off a new effort to expose people with links to the
loathed Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa (SB) secret police, which was a
bulwark of the old regime.


The much-criticised legislation was masterminded by President
Lech Kaczynski and his identical twin, Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, whose conservative Law and Justice party came to power
in 2005.


The Kaczynskis, who were members of the underground opposition
before 1989, made throwing off the legacy of communism a major
plank of their manifesto.


Jaruzelski said of the Kaczynskis: "Those who have won elections
think that the past is a black hole to be got rid of. They want
to hold all the key posts, they want absolute power.


"They want custom-made laws. And there's an emotional desire for
vengeance," he added in the interview, which covered two pages of
the Italian daily.


Jaruzelski, who said imposing martial law "was a nightmare" for
him, resigned in 1990 after negotiations with Solidarity failed
to result in a "grand coalition".


The Polish parliament in 1996 cleared him of all constitutional
responsibility for imposing martial law, but he was charged with
the "communist crime" by prosecutors on April 17.

