

Three international airlines have stopped or altered flights to
Sri Lanka following air raids by Tamil Tigers near the
international airport, officials said Monday.


Hong Kong's flag carrier Cathay Pacific said it had suspended all
flights to the island in the wake of Sunday's pre-dawn air strike
by the Tamil Tigers, who used light aircraft to bomb two fuel
depots near Colombo.


Singapore Airlines said it will only fly into Bandaranaike
International Airport (BIA) -- which shares a runway with the Sri
Lankan air force -- during daylight hours.


"As a security precaution with regards to the extenuating
circumstances in Colombo, we have rescheduled our flight
departure and arrival times," a Singapore Airlines official told
AFP.


"It will be a day time flight instead of a night flight."


Dubai's Emirates airline, which briefly suspended flights to
Colombo in the wake of the attack, said it had taken the same
decision to only offer daytime services.


The decisions come despite assurances from Sri Lanka that the
authorities are capable of dealing with the air threat from the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).


The country's media minister, Anura Priyadharshana Yapa, said in
a statement that the "government is fully capable of meeting any
challenges from the LTTE terrorist outfit."


He also promised "all effective steps would be taken to ensure
the safety of the nation and its people."


In Sunday's attack, a fuel storage tank owned jointly by the
government and the Indian Oil Company was destroyed while two
Shell Gas Lanka buildings, the local unit of the Anglo-Dutch
giant, also suffered fire damage, officials said.


The Tigers carried out their first ever air strike last month and
followed it last week with an attack on the Palaly military
complex in the north of the country.


The Tigers, who have been fighting for an independent Tamil state
for the past 35 years, are believed to be operating five Czech-
built Zlin-143 aircraft smuggled onto the island in pieces and
re-assembled.

