

The trial of a human rights activist and translator for New York-
based Human Rights Watch began here Monday, ahead of an EU
decision on whether to drop sanctions against the country.


Umida Niyazova, 32, was charged with illegally crossing the
border, smuggling and distributing publications threatening
public order by using financial support from foreign governments,
according to the rights group.


"According to relatives (who attended the morning hearing)
Niyazova pleaded guilty only on one count -- illegally crossing
the border -- and denied all other charges against her," Andrea
Berg, Human Rights Watch (HRW) representative in Uzbekistan, told
AFP.


Other charges against her were related to her laptop computer
which was confiscated when she was initially detained in December
2006, according to Berg who attended the afternoon hearing of the
trial.


"She looks good and is defending herself well," she added.


A few journalists who arrived at the Sergeli district court for
the hearing on Monday were not allowed in.


Niyazova was arrested in January and faces 10 years in jail,
according to the rights group.


The trial comes ahead of an EU decision to lift sanctions imposed
following a bloody government crackdown on unrest in Andijan
province in 2005.


Uzbek authorities say that 187 people were killed in Andijan, all
due to the actions of Islamic insurgents, while rights groups say
that security forces killed hundreds of mainly unarmed
protesters.


On April 24 another rights defender, who told foreign media that
she had seen about 500 bodies the day following the crackdown in
Andijan, was sentenced to six years in jail.


Gulbahor Turayeva, a doctor and member of the rights group Anima-
kor from Andijan province, was found guilty of anti-
constitutional activities, slander, and producing and spreading
materials that threaten public order.


The HRW reacted angrily to the verdict describing her as the
latest victim of Uzbek authorities emboldened by the EU's weak
approach to human rights in the former Soviet republic in central
Asia.


"Anything short of extending the EU sanctions currently in place
would be unconscionable," said Holly Cartner, Europe and Central
Asia director at HRW, in a statement last week.


"Turayeva and Niyazova were both arrested after the EU eased the
sanctions last November. Now the EU should see to it that they
and the other wrongfully detained defenders are released."


At least 15 human rights activists are currently in jail in
Uzbekistan on politically motivated charges, according to the
HRW.

