

Germany has rejected a fresh request from Spain to extradite a
German-Syrian businessman accused of being Al-Qaeda's financier
in Europe, authorities said Monday.


A spokesman for the justice department of the northern city-state
of Hamburg said it had sent its refusal late last week to the
Spanish court that had sought Mamoun Darkazanli.


"We now assume that the Darkazanli case is closed for us," the
spokesman said, marking the latest failure of Spanish
investigators to prosecute the 48-year- old.


Spain has accused Darkazanli of being Osama bin Laden's
"permanent interlocutor and assistant" in Europe and having
provided the Al-Qaeda network with logistical and financial
support between 1997 and 2002.


Germany's top court quashed Madrid's first attempt to win his
extradition in 2004 and German authorities rejected a European
arrest warrant in 2005 on the grounds that the country could not
be forced to extradite its own citizens.


After Germany amended its extradition legislation to recognise a
new European Union arrest warrant, Spanish authorities tried once
again to have him handed over.


The Hamburg justice department, after consulting with German
federal prosecutors, called on the federal justice ministry at
the time to agree his extradition, the spokesman said.


But the federal ministry replied that it could not extradite him
because German federal prosecutors had already investigated
Darkazanli and found no grounds on which to prosecute him.


German federal prosecutors have said that Darkazanli was a close
associate of Al-Qaeda leaders between 1993 and 1998 and knew the
members of the so-called Hamburg terror cell that plotted the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.


But they said they found no evidence to support claims that he
had aided the attackers or founded a terror cell on German soil.


Belonging to a foreign terrorist organisation such as Al-Qaeda
has only been illegal in Germany since 2002.


The case has created tension between Berlin and Madrid.


Spain announced in 2005 that it would not recognise European
arrest warrants issued by Germany in retaliation for its stance
on Darkazanli.

