

Global banking giant HSBC on Monday announced the sale of its
London headquarters for 1.09 billion pounds to Spanish property
group Metrovacesa in the biggest property deal in British
history.


The sale, which was worth 1.60 billion euros or 2.17 billion
dollars, will allow HSBC to remain in the building -- but
Metrovacesa will own a 998-year lease, the bank announced in an
official statement.


The massive skyscraper -- which is 210 metres (693 feet) high and
contains 102,000 square metres (1.1 million square feet) of
office space -- towers over the Canary Wharf district in the east
of the British capital.


The gigantic 45-floored block has now become the country's most
expensive place to work, selling for more than double the cost of
its construction.


"HSBC has agreed the sale and leaseback of its head office
building in Canary Wharf, London for 1.09 billion pounds, the
largest single property deal in UK history," the statement said.


The deal, which is expected to be completed in the first half of
2007, eclipsed the previous British record set by the landmark
London skyscraper popularly known as the "erotic gherkin."


A German real estate firm snapped up the "gherkin" -- whose
official title is 30 St Mary Axe -- for 600 million pounds last
February from Swiss reinsurance giant SwissRe.


Meanwhile, HSBC said Monday that its Canary Wharf building, which
houses 8,000 staff and contains facilities including a gym, shops
and a medical centre, would remain the group's global
headquarters.


"London is one of the great crossroads of the world and there is
no better place for HSBC, the world's local bank, to be
headquartered," HSBC chief operating officer David Hodgkinson
said in the statement.


HSBC will pay Metrovacesa annual rent of 43.5 million pounds over
an initial 20-year period and has the option to extend the rental
agreement after five years.


The bank's office block was put on the market at the start of
2007 with a price tag of around one billion pounds, according to
British media reports.


HSBC moved into the building in 2002. The construction of the
office tower began in 1998 and cost 500 million pounds.

