

Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and socialist Segolene Royal
embarked Monday on the final days of campaigning in the French
presidential election, with all eyes on a crucial televised
debate.


Sarkozy, who has a narrow lead in the opinion polls, was at the
hustings in the island of Corsica, a day after a mass rally in
central Paris attended by some 40,000 of his supporters.


Royal was preparing for a May 1 Workers' Day meeting Tuesday at a
stadium in the south of the capital.


The high-point of the campaign comes on Wednesday, when the
rivals face each other for a televised debate expected to be
watched by 20 million viewers.


On Thursday they hold their last rallies -- Sarkozy in the
southern city of Montpellier, Royal in Lille in the north --
ahead of Sunday's vote.


Wednesday's debate is seen as the crucial moment of the second
round campaign, with the greater pressure on Sarkozy as he is
favourite in the race and has a reputation as a highly effective
orator.


"There has not been a debate as important as this... since 1981.
We know that the election is still wide open," said Socialist
Party (PS) leader Francois Hollande, who is Royal's partner.


"The debate should not be a joust or a quarrel or a battle, but a
confrontation of ideas, policies, values," he said.


Both candidates are appealing for support from the 6.8 million
voters who chose the defeated centrist Francois Bayrou in the
April 22 first round.


In Sunday's meeting in Paris, Sarkozy, 52, issued an appeal to
"the voters of the centre, whose values are so close to our own"
-- and he held out the promise of a dose of proportional
representation in future elections, which is a measure backed by
Bayrou.


Flanked by several showbusiness personalities including singer
Johnny Hallyday and actress Charlotte Rampling, Sarkozy also
fired a tirade at the "heirs of May 68" and the Paris student
uprising.


"After May 1968 morality was a word that one could not utter. It
was a word that had disappeared from political vocabulary. Now
for the first time in decades, morality is at the heart of the
presidential debate," he said.


On Saturday Royal, 53, and Bayrou, 55, had a televised
discussion, in what was seen as a bid by the Socialist candidate
to broaden her support on the political centre.


The pair agreed on issues such as institutional reform and the
environment, but had no common ground on the economy.


A TNS Sofres poll indicated that 31 percent of Bayrou voters plan
to back Royal in round two, and 23 percent for Sarkozy.


A further 39 percent had yet to make up their mind. Royal would
need to win over half of Bayrou supporters to be sure of victory.


The same poll gave Sarkozy a lead of 52 percent to 48 next
Sunday, and another -- by IPSOS -- put him on 52.5 percent.


Far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen, who scored a disappointing
10.4 percent in the first-round vote, was to head a traditional
May 1 parade by his National Front party in Paris Tuesday.


Supporters are waiting to see if he will call for a vote for
either candidate on May 6.

