

Portsmouth striker Tresor Lualua dashed to the Democratic
Republic of Congo from England and scored the goal that clinched
a 2-0 win over Ethiopia in an African Nations Cup qualifier at
the weekend.


Victory kept the Congolese Leopards on course for a ninth
consecutive appearance at the biennial showcase of African
football to be hosted by    Ghana next year.


Mputu Mbungu gave DR Congo a 25th-minute lead and Lualua shook
off the effects of an overnight flight to convert a penalty 12
minutes into the   second half.


Victory in the Group 10 qualifier at the 80,000-seat Martyrs
Stadium in the Congolese capital lifted two-time African
champions DR Congo to seven points, three more than Libya with
Namibia and Ethiopia a further point behind.


Only the 12 group winners are guaranteed places at the tournament
in west Africa during January and February with the best three
runners-up from the 10 four-team pools also securing spots.


Success was particularly sweet for Belgium-born DR Congo coach
Henri Depireux as the fixture, postponed last month because of
unrest in Kinshasa, was rescheduled for a weekend not on the
international calendar.


This left the Congolese at the mercy of foreign clubs not obliged
to free players and Lualua was among a handful who made it to the
vast central Africa country for the match.


He came on as a substitute when Portsmouth upset Liverpool in the
English Premiership last Saturday, then raced from the southern
coast town to London for an overnight flight to the heart of
Africa.


Ethiopia, not hard hit by the match date as none of their leading
players are based in Europe, were under pressure from the kickoff
and a defensive blunder gifted Mbungu his goal.


And when Mputu Mabi, leading scorer in the 2007 African Champions
League club competition with nine goals, was fouled inside the
penalty area Lualua made no mistake from the spot kick.


Ethiopia, absent from the Nations Cup since 1982, will have a
chance to avenge the loss when the countries meet again on June 3
in the stamina-sapping high altitude of Addis Ababa.


Namibia host Libya in Windhoek the same weekend and if both
matches produce home wins only one point will separate the first
three teams with two rounds of qualifiers remaining.

