

Malaysia needs a national plan of action to effectively deal with
human trafficking and protect victims of people smuggling, the
national human rights group said Monday.


It will also need the training of enforcement officers, The Human
Rights Commission of Malaysia (Suhakam) urged the government.


Malaysia on Thursday tabled the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Bill
in parliament to crack down on human trafficking and prevent the
country from being used as a transit point for smuggling people.


The new bill will give greater access for the police, immigration
and other authorities to pursue, prosecute and convict human
traffickers while protecting victims from criminal prosecution.


"There is a need to ensure victims are protected from
discriminative and prejudiced treatment," Suhakam's secretary
Ahmad Yusuf Ngah said in a statement.


"As Malaysia often becomes a point of destination and transit of
human trafficking syndicates with victims from all continents ...
personnel trained with language skills must be made available,"
he said.


Victims should also be made aware of the risks of being employed
by unregistered labour agents while the public should be
encouraged to inform authorities of suspected victims of
trafficking.


"Protection to whistle-blowers would further encourage collective
efforts on the part of government agencies and the civil society
which would hopefully facilitate in exposing hidden syndicates,"
Ahmad Yusuf said.


According to a report by the International Organisation for
Migration in March last year, trafficking victims in Malaysia are
often exploited by unscrupulous labour agents.


They are frequently subjected to physical, psychological and
sexual abuse by their employers, it said.


Malaysia is one of Asia's largest importers of labour with
foreign workers, both legal and illegal, making up about 2.6
million of the country's 10.5 million workforce.


Before the Bill, illegally trafficked people were detained under
a patchwork of legislation, which saw them being held in
immigration depots and police cells, alongside criminals.

