

Japanese tourists queuing at the Eiffel Tower or Americans
admiring the ultra- modern Bastille opera might not realise it,
but they are on either side of a political divide that splits
Paris down the middle.


Of the city's 20 arrondissements, or districts, 10 plumped for
right winger Nicolas Sarkozy in the first round of the
presidential election, while the other half came out for
socialist Segolene Royal.


The wealthy 16th arrondissement, stretching westwards from the
Arc de Triomphe monument, gave Sarkozy his best score in the
French capital, a whopping 64 percent of the district's total
vote.


At the far end of the city, the socially and ethnically mixed
eastern 20th arrondissement, whose best known landmark is the
Pere Lachaise cemetery, gave Royal her best showing at 42
percent.


On the national level, Sarkozy, who is the favourite to win the
second round on May 6, took 31 percent of the vote, with Royal at
26 percent and Francois Bayrou, who is now eliminated, at 19
percent.


The dividing line in Paris runs roughly north-south down the
centre of city.


The 18th arrondissement marks the northern frontier in the left-
right split. It is home to tourist hotspots such as the Moulin
Rouge and the Sacre Coeur basilica, both of which are in the
picturesque Montmartre district.


"Historically the 18th has always been on the left," said
Sebastien Ramnoux, political correspondent of Le Parisien
newspaper. "The north of Paris was the revolutionary and left-
wing base of the capital."


The population has changed dramatically over the years, he added.
Today Montmartre is trendy and expensive and apartments there are
much sought after by media, advertising, and showbiz types.


But in northern areas rarely visited by tourists, there remains a
large working class and lower middle class population.


The arrondissement as a whole voted 42 percent for Royal in the
first round, against 23 percent for Sarkozy.


Further south, on the other side of the river Seine, lie the
fifth and sixth arrondissements of the Left Bank, epicentre of
May 1968 riots by students who wanted to overthrow the bourgeois
order.


Despite the history of left-wing rebellions in the universities
on the Left Bank, it is today, and has long been, on the right.


"It has always been very rich people who lived in those
districts, these are the historic quarters of the city. If you
read Balzac, Saint Germain is where the aristocracy lived," said
Paris novelist Luc Lang, referring to 19th century writer Honore
de Balzac.


Just north of the river again, the fourth arrondissement, home to
the Pompidou Centre and the Hotel de Ville, headquarters of the
socialist mayor of Paris, saw a slight majority for Sarkozy -- 34
percent against 32 percent for Royal.


But head westwards and most arrondissements are firmly on the
right, including the areas surrounding the Eiffel Tower, the
Champs Elysees, or the Opera.


And to the east the majority of Parisians voted left.


This divide is quite a transformation from 1989 when Jacques
Chirac, the outgoing president, was mayor of the capital, said
Ramnoux of Le Parisien. Back then, thanks to Chirac's formidable
political machine, every single arrondissement in the city was on
the right.


"There are two reasons why some arrondissements have come back to
the left," he said.


"On the one hand there is a working class population which has
never left, and then there is the new petite bourgeoisie who are
now called bobos'," he said, referring to a supposedly new and
relatively affluent social class of "bourgeois-bohemians."


The 10th arrondissement, in particular the formerly working class
area around the Canal Saint Martin, and the areas around Bastille
in the 11th, are 'bobo' bastions.


These bobos are contributing to the rapid gentrification of
Paris, said Luc Lang, which is pushing the working classes and
teachers or civil servants on modest incomes to the suburbs that
lie on the other side of the "peripherique" highway that rings
Paris.


It was in these suburbs, many of which have a high concentration
of immigrants and are generally much poorer than Paris, that the
riots began in 2005 that spread across France.


The population of Paris, which administratively is defined as the
area within the ring road, is around two million, while the
population of the greater urban area is around 10 million.


"In Paris there is a radicalisation of the extremes," said Lang.


"There are more and more rich people who live here and on the
other hand there are those who live in social housing where there
remains a poor class, often of foreign origin."


Sarkozy's overall first round score in Paris was 35 percent while
Royal got 32 percent.

