

Five men convicted Monday of plotting deadly attacks in Britain
were "ruthless terrorists" who were dedicated to "killing as many
people as they could," a top anti-terorism police chief said.


Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke said their plot was
"the first time since 9/11 that we in the UK had seen a group of
British men intent on committing mass murder against their fellow
citizens.


"This was not a group of youthful idealists. They were trained,
dedicated, ruthless terrorists who were obviously planning to
carry out an attack against the British public," he said in a
statement.


Clarke, head of the Metropolitan Police's Counter-Terrorism
Command and National Coordinator of Terrorism Investigations,
underlined the scale of their efforts.


"They were involved in an international conspiracy, and the
evidence showed that they would not balk at killing as many
people as they could," he said, after the five suspects were
found guilty at London's Central Criminal Court.


"We heard them praising the attacks in Madrid, saying that there
were no such things as innocent victims," he added, referring to
the March 11, 2004 attacks in Spain that killed nearly 200
people.


And he added: "While under surveillance they were heard
discussing possible targets such as shopping centres, nightclubs,
trains -- all heavily crowded places where the loss of life and
destruction could have been massive.


"They had to be stopped," he said.


The men were among seven alleged to have conspired to cause
explosions at a central London nightclub and shopping centre, as
well as hit gas and electricity supplies using bombs made from
chemical fertiliser.


One also discussed trying to buy a radioactive "dirty bomb" from
the Russian mafia but nothing appeared to have come from his
enquiries, the year-long trial was told.


They were led by 25-year-old Omar Khyam, who boasted of working
for Al-Qaeda's number three, Abdul Hadi, and who also had links
to the presumed ringleader of the July 7, 2005 suicide bomb
attacks in London, Mohamed Sidique Khan.

