

The head of tyre group Pirelli on Monday accused the Italian
government of forcing his hand in the takeover by an Italian-
Spanish consortium of a controlling interest in Telecom Italia.


"A financial, political and media alliance" formed against
Pirelli chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera to "get Telecom into
line," he told the daily La Stampa.


Pirelli effectively "forfeited its independence" in accepting 3.3
billion euros (4.49 billion dollars) for its 14.4 percent share
in the telecoms giant through the Olimpia holding company, he
said.


Under an agreement on Saturday with Telecom Italia, Spain's
Telefonica acquired a 10-percent stake in the Italian operator --
though indirectly as part of a new holding company, Telco.


Tronchetti Provera, who has been trying to sell Olimpia since
last year, told Italian dailies that he had come under pressure
from the government in recent months.


The centre-left government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi was
accused of interventionism in the Telecom Italia affair after
balking at a takeover bid by the US telecoms giant AT&T and a
Mexican affiliate. They dropped the bid two weeks ago, citing red
tape.


Without naming Prodi -- who made no secret of his unease over the
AT&T bid -- Trochetti Provera complained of a "confusion in
kind between business activities and public powers."


"Italy is a country that has a dim view of the entrepreneur," he
told Corriere della Sera. "Either it disputes (the
entrepreneur's) role or considers him a subordinate."


Prodi told reporters on Sunday that he was "surprised by some
comments that the government unduly influenced the deal. It's
absolutely not credible."


He said the government was "not in a position to choose between
one partner or another. Those who chose were those who had the
responsibility to do so."


Speaking to La Stampa, Trochetti Provera said: "Businesses like
Telecom Italia, even in other countries, are not led by private
entrepreneurs. I'm an anomaly.


"My mistake was to think that telecommunications could be an
activity like others where the entrepreneur can act
independently," he said.


Telecom Italia, which was privatised in 1997, is Italy's biggest
private business with about 80,000 employees. It reported sales
of 3.01 billion euros in 2006, a decrease of 6.3 percent.


Under the deal announced by the Pirelli board on Saturday, the
Italian banks Intesa Sanpaolo and Mediobanca, the Generali
insurance group and the Benetton family will together control
57.7 percent of Telco, while Spain's Telefonica will control the
other 42.3 percent.


Telefonica thus will own 9.98 percent of Telecom Italia, the
largest chunk, through Telco, but its voting power is restricted
under the deal.


While Telefonica will have two of the 19 seats on the board of
directors, representatives from the Spanish company will not vote
on matters related to countries where both firms are present,
Telefonica said.


Generali and Mediobanca will own some 35 percent of Telco between
them, Intesa Sanpaolo 10 percent, and the Benetton family 15
percent.


Benetton currently holds 20 percent of Olimpia, with the
remainder in the hands of Pirelli. Olimpia, in turn, owns 18
percent of Telecom Italia.


However Telco's control of Telecom Italia will amount to 23.6
percent -- not 18 percent -- because Mediobanca and Generali
ceded their existing shares, respectively 1.54 and 4.1, to
Olimpia.


Telefonica is the second-leading telecoms group in Europe by
sales, behind Deutsche Telekom and ahead of France Telecom and
Vodafone.


Both Telefonica and Telecom Italia are heavily invested in Latin
America. Telefonica boasts 114 million customers in the region,
and the Italian group is the mobile phone leader in Brazil
through its subsidiary Tim-Brazil.

