

Former Liverpool and England coach Sammy Lee has been confirmed
as the full-time manager of Premiership side Bolton following Sam
Allardyce's shock resignation.


Allardyce resigned as Wanderers boss on Sunday after seven-
and-a-half years at the helm amid rumours he could be appointed
Manchester City boss in the summer.


Lee had been working as an assistant to Allardyce for the past
two seasons, but brings plenty of experience to the job having
worked as a backroom coach to both Liverpool and England.


It is the 48-year-old Lee's first role in management and comes at
a time when Bolton, who sit fifth in the Premiership, are bidding
for a place in Europe next season.


"I'm delighted about the prospect of being Bolton manager," said
Lee. "It is a great legacy that Sam has left and it is my job now
to carry that forward."


He added: "It took me one second to decide to accept the job
after it was offered to me.


"I am very proud to be sat here in front of everybody as the new
manager of Bolton Wanderers."


Allardyce was coy about his future on Sunday, saying that he
would be going immediately to Spain for a holiday.


Allardyce said in a statement: "It was mutually decided that I
step down now rather than at the end of the season, to give my
successor the ideal opportunity to experience the preparation and
build-up of matchday in readiness of next season.


"The decision to leave the football club, which has been my
spiritual home for over 18 years, as both player and manager, is
one of the hardest decisions I have had to make in my life."


The Bolton boardroom admitted that given their modest resources
the club had "over-achieved" with Allardyce at the helm.


And Lee knows he will now be under pressure to carry on
Allardyce's good work.


"The education I've gained from working with Sam Allardyce has
been immense. I have to continue what Sam has started, that's
first and foremost, and then re- evaluate it after that," he
added.


"It certainly is a healthy position that Bolton are in, we're now
contesting for a place in Europe."

