

Thailand's current account surplus in March jumped to a record
high, driven by the country's stellar exports of agricultural and
hi-tech goods on the back of robust global demand, the government
said Monday.


The surplus in the current account, the broadest measure of trade
in goods and services, hit 2.26 billion dollars, sharply up from
a surplus of 136 million dollars a year earlier, the Bank of
Thailand said in a monthly report.


"The surplus was a record high due to strong exports. Our
exports, especially agricultural and hi-tech products such as
electronics, rose sharply thanks to strong overseas demand," said
a central bank official.


Exports in March jumped 19 percent year-on-year to a record high
of 12.9 billion dollars, even though the Thai baht in the month
rose nearly 13 percent from a year to around the 35.00-level to
the greenback.


The strong baht makes Thai exports less competitive in overseas
markets and cuts the value of firms' repatriated profits. Exports
account for 60 percent of the Thai economy.


Despite the rosy trade data, the central bank just last week
revised down its growth forecast for Thailand's economy, saying
gross domestic product (GDP) would expand by less than the
originally projected 4.0-5.0 percent.


The economy is now expected to grow by 3.8-4.8 percent this year,
as Thailand's political troubles and economic policy bungles have
hurt consumption and business sentiment.


Army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said the
government would try to shore up the economy by stepping up
spending while supporting exporters.


"Political problems are affecting the economy and preventing
growth from reaching our targets. But the government is working
to improve the situation by supporting exports and spending more
money," he said.


Despite the strong baht, analysts said Thai exports remain
competitive overseas.


"Our key export products, including vehicles, hi-tech and
agricultural goods, remained very competitive abroad," said
Kanang Duangmanee, an economist at Kasikorn Research Center.


Agricultural shipments in March jumped 14 percent to 940 million
dollars while exports of hi-tech goods rose a robust 21 percent
to 8.6 billion dollars.


But Kanang warned the country's exports could slow down later
this year due to an expected slump in the global economy.


Imports in March grew just 0.5 percent year-on-year to 10.7
billion dollars due to weak domestic consumption hit by prolonged
political worries following a coup in September.


Thailand's trade surplus reached 2.2 billion dollars in March,
compared with a surplus of 187.2 million dollars a year earlier.


Exports to the United States, the kingdom's biggest trading
partner, rose 1.00 percent to 1.71 billion dollars, while
shipments to Japan surged 21 percent to 1.76 billion dollars in
March.


Thailand's exports to the Association of South East Asian Nations
(ASEAN) region grew 13 percent to 2.6 billion dollars in the
month.


The central bank also released February trade figures in Monday's
report, one month late due to a delay in accounting data.


The surplus in current account in February hit 1.67 billion
dollars, up from a surplus of 317.60 million dollars a year
earlier, with exports up 18.4 percent at 11.2 billion dollars and
imports rising 6.3 percent to 10 billion dollars, it said.

