

Delta Air Lines said Monday it has emerged from bankruptcy
protection, after a 19-month reorganization to help get past the
long crisis in the US airline industry.


"This is a great day in Delta's history -- a day that would not
have been possible without the hard work and sacrifice of Delta
people around the world," said Delta chief executive Gerald
Grinstein.


"Through our restructuring we have successfully repaired our
balance sheet, improved the customer experience, expanded our
international route system and built a platform for future
success. Delta is now a fierce competitor in a tough industry and
we are confident that we will reclaim our rightful place as an
industry leader."


The third-largest US carrier exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy Monday
after a judge last week approved the final details of
reorganization.


Delta and Northwest Airlines filed for creditor protection on the
same day in September 2005, which at the time left four of the
top six carriers in bankruptcy.


Since that time, the remaining carriers, with the exception of
Northwest, have emerged from court supervision and the financial
picture of the industry has markedly improved.


Delta lost 6.2 billion dollars in 2006 amid a hefty 5.4-billion
charge for reorganization.


The carrier posted a much narrower 130-million dollar loss in the
first quarter of 2007, but sees its financial picture improving
after major cost-cutting efforts.


The US airline industry has been struggling with its worst-ever
crisis since the September 11, 2001 attacks triggered a slump in
air travel, and carriers were hit with record-high fuel prices.


A US bankruptcy court judge in New York approved the details of
the plan April 25. The airline has a 2.5 billion-dollar exit
financing package that will be used to repay the a 2.1 billion-
dollar credit used during the bankruptcy process.


Delta said the reorganization process built on five years of
change that led to more than eight billion dollars in annual cost
and revenue improvements.


"Rather than simply cut costs, Delta used the Chapter 11 process
to completely transform every aspect of our business and create a
platform for long-term success that will enable us to weather
future volatility in the airline industry," said Edward Bastian,
Delta's chief financial officer.


The US airline industry has been struggling with its worst-ever
crisis since the September 11, 2001 attacks triggered a slump in
air travel, and carriers were hit with record-high fuel prices.


The Air Transport Association of America, a trade organization of
the leading US airlines, is projecting an overall net profit of
approximately four billion dollars for passenger and cargo
airlines in 2007 after earnings of between two and three billion
dollars in 2006.


A profitable 2006-2007 would be the first back-to-back period of
profitability since 1999-2000. US airlines lost a total of 10
billion dollars in 2005.

