

Estonian and Russian lawmakers found little common ground during
day-long talks here to try to resolve a row over the removal of a
Soviet war memorial from downtown Tallinn, an official said
Monday.


"The talks held with our Russian counterparts today showed that
we have serious differences over the interpretation of 50 years
of history," Estonian deputy parliamentary speaker Kristiina
Ojuland told a press briefing, referring to the five-decade
Soviet occupation of the Baltic state.


Two officials from the Russian Duma lower house, including
Nikolai Kovalyov, head of the Duma Committee on War Veterans'
Affairs who led the delegation that came to Estonia for the
crisis talks, failed to show at the briefing.


According to Ojuland, the Russians want the statue of the Bronze
Soldier returned to the place in central Tallinn where it stood
for 60 years until it was moved Friday, following riots in the
Estonian capital in which one person -- a Russian -- was killed
and more than 150 injured.


The Russian delegation also asked for "everyone who was detained
by police during the riots to be set free," she said.


She said the Estonian side had asked the representatives from the
Duma to help end a campaign of misinformation in Russia about the
statue.


Reports in the Russian media, and the Russian-language media in
Estonia, have said the statue was dismantled after being removed
from central Tallinn.


The renovated, intact 2.5-metre (eight-feet) tall Bronze Soldier
was reinstalled in a military cemetery in Tallinn Monday
afternoon.


The statue is seen by Russians as a sacred memorial to Red Army
soldiers who died fighting the Nazis in World War II, while many
Estonians see it as a painful reminder of the long and brutal
Soviet occupation of their country.


An official at the Russian embassy told AFP that Kovalyov and
Leonid Slutski, deputy head of the Duma Foreign Affairs
Committee, were in talks with police officials and would not
attend the briefing at the foreign ministry.

