

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz heads into a meeting with
restive bank directors Monday, seeking to defend himself against
allegations he improperly pushed a generous pay package for his
girlfriend.


At the meeting with a World Bank investigatory committee, the
former Pentagon number two will plead his case over the firestorm
linked to the pay deal for his girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


The committee, drawn from the full board of 24 representatives,
is examining not just the Riza affair but his hiring of former
White House aides to influential, and highly paid, jobs in his
inner circle.


A report in The Washington Post Saturday said the bank panel had
already concluded that Wolfowitz breached ethics in engineering
the pay raise for Riza, but remained locked in debate over
whether to call explicitly for his resignation.


The White House on Monday reiterated its support for the
embattled World Bank chief.


"The president has full confidence in Paul Wolfowitz's ability to
continue to lead the World Bank," spokesman Tony Fratto said.


Wolfowitz was to appear at Monday's meeting with Riza and Robert
Bennett, a prominent Washington lawyer who helped former
president Bill Clinton settle a sexual harassment case in 1998.


"We want to make a presentation to them to show that this
conflict-of-interest allegation is absolutely false," Bennett
told AFP, arguing that Wolfowitz was being "smeared" by
opponents.


"They have some policy disputes with him and there are some
international power issues," added the lawyer, referring to long-
standing European suspicion of Wolfowitz.


The bank's hearing will coincide with a Washington summit between
US President George W. Bush and the European Union, represented
by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose members believe
Wolfowitz is now a liability.


Wolfowitz says he acted in good faith in the Riza case, on the
advice of the bank's ethics committee, in trying to resolve a
potential conflict of interest between himself and Riza after he
became president in June 2005.


But officials contend that he was never directed to personally
order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth nearly 200,000
dollars for his Libyan-born companion when she was reassigned to
work at a US government agency.


Critics say the credibility of the World Bank itself is being
shredded, not least over a campaign spearheaded by Wolfowitz to
root out corruption.


Meanwhile, The Wall Street Journal dubbed Monday's hearing a
"kangaroo court."


"The real disgrace here isn't Mr. Wolfowitz or Ms. Riza but the
bank itself and its self-protecting staff and European
directors," the conservative newspaper said in an editorial.


"Their only 'ethic' is to oust an American reformer so they can
get back to running the foreign aid status quo."

