

A US officer accused of "aiding the enemy" while running a prison
camp in Iraq kept a stash of pornography and called his
translator "my beautiful," a military investigation panel heard
Monday.


Lieutenant Colonel William Steele -- accused of giving a
cellphone to a detainee and fraternising with his daughter --
appeared before a military board in a camp outside Baghdad to
find out whether he will face court martial.


If he is sent for trial and convicted on the most serious charge
-- that of helping America's enemies --  he could face the death
penalty.


Prior to his arrest, Steele's 451st Military Police Detachment
ran a jail in Camp Cropper, a US base outside Baghdad not far
from Camp Victory, where his "Article 32 Hearing" began on
Monday.


For the previous two months he had been held at a military camp
in Kuwait.


Reporters were barred from much of the hearing, but were allowed
in to hear an investigator describe what he found on Steele's
computer when military police searched his living quarters and
office.


Special agent Patrick Rasmussen, who examined Steele's government
issued computer, said he found 37 pornographic videos and 122
images stored on it.


He also found an email which he took to indicate that Steele was
committing adultery -- an offence under military law -- and a
copy of a classified document that ought not to have been in the
officer's possession.


Lieutenant Colonel Quentin Crank, who took over command from
Steele at Cropper, was asked whether he would call an Iraqi
female interpreter "my beautiful" or "my sweety," as Steele is
alleged to have done.


Crank said that would have been a sign of an "inappropriate
relationship."


He also said he had seen Steele giving the detainee's daughter a
box of computer software as a gift. "It was done in a separate
room away from everyone else," he said.


Steele's charge sheet covers offences allegedly committed between
October 1, 2005 and February 22, 2007, and includes the
allegation that he "aided the enemy" by giving an unmonitored
cell phone to an Iraqi prisoner.


The charge sheet also accuses him of "wilfully failing to fulfil
obligations as an approving authority" in the expenditure of
funds and conduct unbecoming an officer in his relations with his
translator and the prisoner's daughter.


Monday's Article 32 hearing was the first stage in a process
which could see Steele face a court martial if it finds there is
enough evidence to charge him.


Earlier in the hearing, defence counsel David Barrett asked to be
provided with 18,000 documents relating to the case, and be given
more time to prepare his response to the allegations.


"These are very serious charges. This is a potential capital
case," Barrett said.


Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Walker, representing the prosecution,
downplayed the importance of the documents, which he said "are
not relevant."


The hearing was carried out in a legal centre in Camp Victory, a
large American base just outside Baghdad, and the accused and all
the participants wore the US army's grey camouflage pattern
combat uniform.


Steele sat between his lawyers facing the head of the
investigatory panel, Colonel Elizabeth Fleming, and a large Stars
and Stripes flag. He did not address the hearing, but conferred
quietly with his lawyers.


When witnesses addressed the panel he appeared concerned and
stared at them intently through his glasses as they spoke.


Camp Cropper holds some of the most important the 19,000
detainees captured by US troops in Iraq. Before his execution for
crimes against humanity on December 30, ousted dictator Saddam
Hussein received medical treatment there.


Steele's arrest is the latest in a string of scandals to hit the
military prison system since the 2003 invasion. In 2004, pictures
of the abuse of detainees at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison west
of Baghdad shocked the world.

