

Iran has expelled tens of thousands of Afghan refugees within the
space of a few days in a new drive aimed at returning one million
of them home by March next year, media said Monday.


The expulsions are a sign that Iran is prepared to wait no longer
in executing its stated aim of returning all the estimated two
million Afghan refugees living in Iran, despite protests from
Kabul.


"More than 30,000 people have been collected and the majority of
them sent back to their country via the borders," since the drive
began on April 21, Interior Minister Mostafa Pour Mohammadi was
quoted as saying in the daily Tehran Emrouz.


"In the first phase of our plan, we hope to expel 500,000 people
and when this is successful we shall fulfil the plan of
repatriating one million resident aliens by the end of the year
(March 2008)," the minister added.


The head of Iran's police force for foreigners, Mohammad Ali
Rahnama, said that 20,000 people had been expelled in the first
three days of the drive alone.


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) says
that 25,000 have been forced out.


Afghanistan has already publicly asked Iran not to expel the
refugees, saying that its own capacity to house them is very
limited and this would "create problems."


But Iran has frequently expressed exasperation that it must
shoulder the burden of housing those displaced by conflict and
wants all Afghans in Iran without an Iranian passport to return
home by 2010.


Millions of Afghans, mostly Shiite Hazara or Sunni Persian-
speaking Tajiks, fled to the security of Iran from the wars that
devastated their country from the Soviet invasion to the Taliban.
At the peak, Iran was hosting around four million Afghans.


Since the fall of the Taliban, which persecuted Afghanistan's
Shiite minority, Iran has been working with the UNHCR and the new
Kabul authorities on a voluntary repatriation programme.


Pour Mohammadi said the expulsions were being carried out under
an "old law which on occasion has been implemented but on other
occasions has been implemented with negligence".


"However, since my presence in the ministry, we have announced
that we are serious in carrying out these laws," he said.


Many of the Afghans in Iran are employed as cheap labour in the
construction industry or as guards in residential buildings but
Rahnama said any employer who hires Afghans without a work permit
would face severe punishment.

