

The United States must cut domestic agricultural support and
trade distorting measures to below 19 billion dollars (14 billion
euros), the World Trade Organisation's chief negotiator on
agriculture said on Monday.


Crawford Falconer, the chairman of the WTO's special committee on
agriculture, told the 150 member states it was "inconceivable"
that Washington should be able to spend more on domestic support
than the 19 billion dollars it is allowed now.


The current US proposal tabled in deadlocked global trade talks
would allow Washington domestic support worth 22 billion dollars,
Falconer said in a discussion paper released to try to spark the
negotiations.


"It is frankly inconceivable that the US will come out of this
negotiation with an entitlement to spend more on overall trade
distorting domestic support than it had when it came in,"
Falconer said.


Rather, the "centre of gravity" around which negotiations will
focus is "certainly below 19 (billion dollars) and somewhere
above the very low teens," for the United States he stated.


The European Union, meanwhile, could cut its own domestic support
by a minimum of 70 percent, and possibly up to 75-80 percent,
said Falconer, who is also New Zealand's ambassador to the WTO.


A 75-percent cut in support measures conditionally offered by the
EU would amount to some 27.5 billion euros, he added.


The EU might be technically able to cut measures by over 80
percent, but this is unlikely for political reasons, Falconer
said.


Japan meanwhile is seen being able to comfortably match US and EU
cuts, he added.


Agriculture has been a key stumbling block in the WTO's Doha
round of trade negotiations, which were launched in the Qatari
capital in 2001.


The US and EU have engaged in bitter arguments over the subject,
with Brussels demanding more reductions in US farm subsidies and
Washington insisting that proposed European tariff cuts do not go
far enough.


In his paper, Falconer urged all parties to respond to his
proposals in the hope of reaching an agreement, saying that "now
is the time for honest talk."


"If we do not get serious momentum over the next few weeks ... we
will either fail or we will put this whole exercise in the
freezer for some considerable time until a better generation than
us can thaw it out," he warned.

