

US stocks traded mixed early Monday as the market paused
following a record- setting series of sessions and digested the
latest economic news, which appeared to ease inflation fears.


At 1418 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 10.73
points (0.08 percent) to 13,131.67 after the blue-chip index set
three consecutive record highs last week.


The Nasdaq composite lost 4.18 points (0.16 percent) to 2,553.03
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index edged up
1.33 points (0.09 percent) to 1,495.40.


The market, which has been on a tear following better-than-
expected corporate earnings, digested news that US consumer
spending rose 0.3 percent in March and personal incomes increased
0.7 percent.


Although the spending figure was below expectations, traders
focused on the inflation component of the report showing core
prices up just 0.1 percent.


"This good inflation news will give stocks a boost today," said
Dick Green at Briefing.com, who added that the market appears
somewhat overextended.


"The market momentum remains good, but the indices are clearly
running ahead of the fundamentals. It isn't a trend to fight, but
it is important to recognize that the expansion ... that is
occurring is based on shaky fundamental foundations."


Todd Salamone at Schaeffer's Investment Research echoed those
comments, saying some investors are increasingly wary despite the
records set on Wall Street.


"Caution on the Street is rampant, as investors ponder the
seeming disconnect between the economy and decelerating earnings
growth with a stock market achieving new milestones," he said.


"The Dow has finished 11 of the past 12 trading sessions with a
gain. And these impressive gains have come amid concerns of a
weakening dollar and a weakening economy. Even the dreaded 'R'
word (recession) is being batted around the financial press with
increasing regularity."


The analyst said the low expectations for corporate profits have
helped to fuel the rally as earnings have come in stronger than
expected.


"In some cases, the weak dollar has added positively to
multinationals bottom line, which has only raised more cautionary
flags as analysts fret over the quality of earnings," he said.

