

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday took his energy
security tour to Kuwait after striking an accord with the United
Arab Emirates to finance resource development projects.


Abe was to hold talks with Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad
al-Sabah later Monday, on the first visit to the Gulf Arab state
by a Japanese premier, a foreign ministry official said.


The premier, who will also meet his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh
Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed al-Sabah, plans to visit Japanese
personnel posted in Kuwait for an air force mission supporting
US-led operations in Iraq on Tuesday.


Abe earlier on Monday concluded the first trip to the oil-rich
United Arab Emirates (UAE) by a Japanese prime minister in nearly
three decades.


In Dubai, Abe held talks with UAE Vice President Sheikh Mohammed
bin Rashid al- Maktoum, who is also the ruler of the booming
business centre in the southern Gulf.


On Sunday, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Abu
Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) signed an agreement to boost
Japanese investment in resources-related projects in the UAE.


Under the accord, the Japanese government-run bank will consider
providing ADNOC with loans expected to amount to around one
billion dollars, a foreign ministry source said.


But the source, who declined to be named, added that details of
the planned loan, including the total amount, have yet to be
decided.


"The UAE is playing an important role in Japan's security of
stable energy supply, and it is extremely significant to
strengthen ties with ADNOC, a key player in that context," the
bank said.


Abe also met the UAE president, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-
Nahayan, in the capital Abu Dhabi on Sunday and agreed to hold
regular meetings between the two countries' foreign and trade
ministers.


The two sides likewise agreed to accelerate efforts to reach a
free trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council.


Tokyo and the six oil-rich GCC nations -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE -- began free trade talks last
year aiming to conclude an accord in 2008.


Japan's premier separately met the crown prince, Sheikh Mohammed
bin Zayed al- Nahayan, late on Sunday and agreed to bolster not
only economic relations but also culture and education ties.


The Japanese premier, who paid his first official visit to the
United States for a summit with US President George W. Bush last
Friday, is also due to visit Egypt and Qatar later this week.


Japan is increasingly concerned by potential threats to its
energy supply.


It has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its own, and relies
for more than 70 percent of its oil supply on the four Gulf Arab
states that Abe is currently touring.


This is the second trip to the Middle East by a Japanese premier
in less than a year. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
travelled to Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan last
July.

