

Environmental groups Monday called for immediate and decisive
action on climate change, amid concern that powerful nations will
seek to water down a masterplan aimed at tackling global warming.


"We now stand at a climate crossroads," Greenpeace international
climate and energy campaigner Stephanie Tunmore said as the
United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
began meeting in Bangkok.


"We can go down the road of renewable energy and smart efficient
use of energy... and avoid the worst impacts of climate change.


"Or we can keep blundering on in the same direction into a
fossil-fuelled future of extreme weather, drastic water shortages
and desperate climate refugees. We cannot afford to take a wrong
turn."


The week-long IPCC meeting is seeking to come up with
recommendations on how best to limit the impacts of climate
change without severely hurting the global economy.


However there are deep differences over how best to tackle the
problem and some delegates, as well as environmental groups,
warned that compromise may mean far too many greenhouse gases
continue to be spewed into the air.


The United States and China, the two biggest emitters of carbon
dioxide and other gases blamed for global warming, have refused
to accept internationally binding caps on their pollution, saying
that would hurt their economies.


Meanwhile, there is no consensus on what sort of new technologies
and economic models should be used to cut greenhouse gases.


Controversy surrounds issues such as nuclear energy, biofuels,
putting a price on carbon emissions and trying to bury carbon
dioxide deep underground.


Nevertheless, the WWF said a solution could and must be achieved.


"It is crystal clear that we can cut emissions to well below
today's levels by shifting from carbon-heavy fuels like coal to
clean and efficient energy," WWF global climate change director
Hans Verolme said.


"This is affordable. This is only going to cost the world 0.1
percent per year of our GDP (gross domestic product)... it's
peanuts."

