

Amnesty International urged South Korea Monday to protect the
rights of foreign workers, warning they can face serious human
rights violations and discrimination.


"Migrant workers remain at risk of a range of serious human
rights violations," the London-based watchdog said in a report.


The report coincided with the death of three unidentified Thai
workers in a remote farm village in the eastern coast town of
Yanggu. They died early Monday while sleeping in a container
house which was engulfed by fire. Police have yet to determine
the cause of the fire.


There are about 400,000 migrant workers in South Korea, the
report said. Of these at least 189,000, mostly from China and
Southeast Asia, are staying illegally.


The migrants have helped fill labour-intensive positions often
shunned by locals due to low wages and harsh conditions.


South Korea two years ago introduced an Employment Permit System
for Migrant Workers (EPS).


This system bans discrimination, ensures access to health
insurance and recognises the right to a system of redress against
employers in cases of overdue wages or accidents.


"However, migrant workers in reality continued to have limited
protection against discrimination and abuse and few possibilities
of obtaining redress," Catherine Kim, director of Amnesty's
branch in South Korea, told reporters.


They often worked excessively long hours for lower wages than
Korean workers in similar jobs, with their wages withheld, she
said.


"Many arrive in South Korea already heavily indebted to
recruitment agencies in their own countries, only to find the
jobs they are assigned are more dangerous or poorly paid than
they expected or were promised."


Fear of antagonising their employers and the risk of losing their
jobs made many workers reluctant to report health problems or
abuse, she said.


The EPS appears to have had "little positive impact" on health
and safety at work for migrant workers, Kim said.


From 2000 to 2004, more than 1,000 migrant workers annually had
suffered from workplace accidents, but they have received
"inadequate compensation," she said.


Women, who account for a third of all migrant workers, sometimes
faced sexual harassment.


A survey in 2004 showed 12 percent of the women suffered sexual
violence at work, but many had not reported the abuse due to fear
of losing their jobs.


The EPS showed South Korea's "significant" attempt to protect the
basic rights of migrant workers, Kim said.


"However, its implementation reveals that migrant workers remain
a vulnerable community," she said.

