

India said Monday that 17 rare Asiatic lions have died since
January in a protected park in western Gujarat state and unveiled
a plan to shift the surviving cats to a new habitat.


"The decision to shift the lions was taken because of fears that
adverse human actions or natural calamity may wipe out their
whole population," India's junior forests minister Namo Narain
Meena told parliament.


Meena said the surviving lions would be relocated from the Gir
National Park -- the world's only natural habitat for the rare
lions -- to the dense Kuno-Palpur forests in nearby Madhya
Pradesh state.


"Kuno-Palpur has been recommended as the best suited alternative
for the Asiatic Lions by an expert committee, which had been
asked to suggest measures for their protection," Meena said in a
statement.


The minister said only eight of the dead lions had been
slaughtered by poachers.


"The other nine lions perished due to diseases, accidents or
because of natural reasons," Meena said, rejecting claims by
wildlife groups that rampant poaching in Gir has left more than a
dozen lions dead this year.


The number of Asiatic lions plummeted from around 1,000 a century
ago to just 20 in 1913 but the creation of the Gir sanctuary
after India's independence from British colonial rule in 1947
helped revive the population.


Environment and Forests Minister A. Raja, meanwhile, said New
Delhi had ordered a crackdown against poachers in Gir, where a
highway allows tens of thousands of pilgrims to visit a forest
shrine every year.


"The government is determined to take strict action against
poaching and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau was set up with
this intention," Raja said during a debate on the plight of the
Asiatic lions, which became the symbol for the modern Republic of
India.


Raja said the poachers were mainly outsiders, hunting in Gir for
pelt, claws and body parts, which have ready markets outside
India.


The 1,400 square kilometre (560 square mile) sanctuary is home to
359 lions, according to the most recent census, conducted in
2005.

