

Tony Blair defended his record as British prime minister Monday
as he prepares to mark 10 years in power, with a poll suggesting
things have got worse, not better, under his governing Labour
Party.


Blair chalks up a decade in office on Wednesday, the day before
elections are held for the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly,
some English and all Scottish municipal councils, where Labour is
expected to suffer widespread losses.


The 53-year-old premier is widely expected to announce his
resignation next week, paving the way for his long-serving
finance minister, Gordon Brown, to succeed him.


Reports this week even suggested that Blair is preparing to
personally endorse Brown -- his long-term ally turned bitter foe
-- and senior Labour ministers are appealing for party unity.


But Blair was more reflective when he addressed health
professionals in London Monday, assessing that the pace of public
sector reform in the early years of his premiership was not quick
enough.


"In respect of the reforms, I think it's true to say that in the
first two to three years, we didn't push forward fast enough some
of the reform agenda," Blair said at a meeting of the King's Fund
health sector think-tank.


"I think that we, obviously, have a great deal of work to do in
order to try and take people with us in these reforms," he added.


But of his government's health service changes, he said: "I
believe those reforms in that framework will stay in place. I
can't see any government turning their back on that."


Blair has been increasingly contemplative in recent months. He
has said he believes history will judge him more kindly than his
contemporaries over the decision to invade Iraq as an ally of the
United States.


And earlier this month, he accepted that his departure could help
reverse his party's fortunes by removing the "static and
unpopularity" that has surrounded him in latter years.


A YouGov poll for Monday's Daily Telegraph newspaper appeared to
reflect that mood, suggesting only one-fifth of voters would be
sad to see Blair go; 39 percent said they would be happy.


Asked if life had improved in Britain in the last 10 years, 26
percent of the 2,019 adults said it had, 48 percent said it had
got worse, while 19 percent said it had stayed the same.


Forty-five percent rated Blair's performance as either poor or
very poor, while 24 percent said he either good or excellent.
Some 26 percent said he had been a fair leader.


Out on the campaign trail, the leader of Britain's smaller
opposition Liberal Democrats, Menzies Campbell, described Blair
and Labour's legacy in the last decade as one of "war and waste".


The main opposition Conservative Party's leader, David Cameron,
chose to focus on Brown, warning that Britain would be worse off
under the chancellor.


On Sunday, Home Secretary John Reid gave his strongest hint yet
that he will not challenge Brown for the party's top job once
Blair steps down, leaving only two left-wing candidates who could
stand if they secure enough backing.


On Monday evening, Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell was to call for
an end to the "tribalism" that has split Labour into Blair and
Brown camps since the former was elected leader in 1994.


"When all the talk about timetables, contests (or no contests),
and 'orderly transitions' will finally come to an end, we must be
united through this process of change," she was to tell the left-
wing think-tank Progress.

