

A decision to cut fees for foreign defence counsels was hailed by
International judges on the Khmer Rouge tribunal Monday, saying
they hoped genocide trials would now progress.


Demands by the Cambodian Bar Association that overseas lawyers
pay up to 4,900 US dollars a year to defend former political
leaders has stalled for months regulations needed for the trials
to take place.


While the Bar refused to abandon the fees, it reduced them Friday
to 500 dollars for the entire period of the trials after weeks of
crisis talks with various foreign diplomats.


International jurists, who opposed the high fees, said Monday
that they hoped the tribunal rules could now be adopted by a full
plenary of foreign and Cambodian judges at the end of May.


The judges in a statement expressed "their hope that (the
tribunal) can move forward without further delay, so as to
discharge its historic responsibility to find justice for the
Cambodian people."


After nearly a decade of tough negotiations and many setbacks,
the first trials of former Khmer Rouge leaders were initially
expected this year.


But repeated delays mean they are not likely to start until early
2008, officials say.


"Once the internal rules are adopted, the judicial investigation
can start in the following weeks," co-investigating judge Marcel
Lemonde said earlier.


"It's difficult, at this stage, to say precisely when the public
trials will take place but it seems difficult now to have them
before the beginning of 2008," he added.


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that ageing Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


So far, only one defendant is in custody.


The only other person arrested for crimes committed during the
Khmer Rouge's 1975-79 rule, military commander Ta Mok, died in
prison last July, while Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot died in 1998.


Up to two million people died of overwork or starvation, or were
executed, under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

