

Liberians have roundly welcomed the lifting of a UN ban on
diamond mining and exports, a move that is expected to bring back
some desperately needed sparkle to the battered economy.


"We are very pleased with the lifting of the embargo on
diamonds," Information Minister Lawrence Bropleh told AFP on
Monday.


"This is going to create job opportunities for Liberia and it is
going to be very healthy for the Liberian economy," he said.


The UN on Friday scrapped a blockade imposed in 2003 on Liberian
raw diamond exports, convinced that the west African nation had
made progress in ensuring international controls in diamond
trade.


It was the Security Council's second vote of confidence in the
new president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, following the
lifting of an embargo on Liberian wood in June.


Diamonds are the second top export earner for Liberia after
timber.


Trafficking in illegal "blood diamonds" is considered to have
been one of the root causes of civil war, not just in Liberia,
but also in neighbouring Sierra Leone where a 10-year brutal
conflict only ended in 2001.


"The lifting of the embargo will create jobs and that will reduce
the suffering in the country ... diamonds will revitalise the
economy," said Wilson Tarpeh, an economist and university
professor in Monrovia.


The tiny west African country's media has over the weekend been
awash with news of the precious gemstone and how it will help
restore what Liberia lost during its protracted civil war.


Radio and television stations, newspapers have led with the
diamond stories, and even in the bars it has become a regular
topic of conversation.


"People will finally be able to leave the capital to go up
interior and hustle there," said Jimmy Larkpoh, over a drink with
his mates in the Monrovia suburb of Paynesville.


"I will now go to Bomi (a rich diamond county) and open my
diamond mines. This is what we have been doing for living before
the embargo," he said.


Once one of Africa's most prosperous nations with abundant
timber, rubber and mineral wealth, Liberia lies in ruin after
more than 14 years of civil war.


The lucrative but labour-intensive diamond industry is expected
to help reduce the rate of unemployment, which stands at around
85 percent according to UN official estimates.


Bropleh said Liberia would want to see natives taking a lead in
the industry.


"We are going to encourage Liberians to invest in the diamond
sector so that we can be able to reduce the poverty rate in the
country."


But although they encouraged foreign investors to come, Liberians
would come first," he added.


The current Security Council president, British ambassador Emyr
Jones Parry said the lifting of the ban was "a reflection of our
confidence in that country, in its leadership and our wish that
it should now progress quickly."


In Friday's resolution, the UN said it had decided to scrap the
embargo on raw diamonds imposed in 2003 because of Liberia's
"continuing cooperation with the Kimberley Process Certification
Scheme".


The UN-backed Kimberley Process, which now groups 71 countries
and international organizations, was set up in May 2000 to
prevent illegally exported "conflict diamonds" being used to buy
arms.


Members of the group have agreed to a certificate system designed
to identify the origin of diamonds and guarantee that they are
legally exported.


The UN will review its decision in 90 days, based on an
evaluation it will receive from the Kimberley Process on
Liberia's performance.


During back-to-back civil wars that lasted from 1989 to 2003,
rivals plundered the country's wood and diamond to finance the
purchase of the arms with which they waged war, in a conflict
that claimed more than 400,000 lives.

