

Taufik Hidayat is no stranger to controversy but the Indonesian
star insists he has no gripe with world number one Lin Dan, and
is instead focused on winning another Olympic title.


The two face off this week at the Singapore Open, part of the new
badminton Super Series, and with highly coveted Olympic
qualifying points at stake both men want to win.


Athens Olympic gold medalist Hidayat, who beat China's Lin to win
the Asian Games title in December, has slipped to 10 in the world
rankings but is ready to step it up as the race to the Beijing
Olympics kicks in.


"I want to be the champion, but it's a step by step process,"
said Hidayat. "The ranking does not matter to me, I just want to
win championships wherever I go."


Asked Monday if snaring another Olympic title would be the right
time to retire, the soon-to-be father refused to be drawn. "I
don't know, I hope to play in 2008, win or not."


Hidayat has earned a reputation as the bad boy of badminton and
reinforced it at the Asian Games in Doha by launching an
astonishing personal attack on Lin, calling him arrogant and
unfriendly.


But he insists he has nothing against the Chinese star.


"I don't have a problem with Lin Dan and have never spoken to
him. He doesn't speak English, I don't speak Mandarin. I don't
have any problems with him at all."


Lin, fresh from winning the All England Championships which
Hidayat missed, said he was prepared for a tough fight to secure
his first Singapore title.


"Since it (the tournament format) has been changed to 21 points,
it's become tougher and more exciting. Every game will be tough,"
he said.


"It's not my first time here, so I'm quite used to the
conditions. I like the way Singapore is organised. I think the
challenge for me will be great."


The tournament, which gets underway Wednesday, has attracted
virtually all the top 30 players from the men's and women's world
rankings.


Lin takes on Hong Kong's Chan Yan Kit in his opening match on
Wednesday, while Hidayat plays a qualifier.


Defending champion Peter Gade of Denmark plays Malaysia's Ismail
Saman.


"Winning is my goal, it's difficult, but my form is very good,
and I enjoy being here," said Gade.


"The Singapore Open has always been a strong tournament, it's a
tough draw, but I have to take it one match at a time and be
patient."


China's world number one, Xie Xingfang, Lin's fiancee, leads the
women's field.

