

A judge handed down life jail terms Monday to five men convicted
of plotting an Al-Qaeda bombing campaign in Britain, including
one with links to the ringleader of the 2005 attacks in London.


Judge Michael Astill said the men were intent on causing
"indiscriminate death and suffering" as he sentenced them at
London's Central Criminal Court to a minimum of between 35 and 40
years behind bars.


"You have betrayed this country that has given you every
opportunity," he told them.


The head of the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorism unit, Peter
Clarke, said the five were "trained, dedicated, ruthless
terrorists" who had links with Al- Qaeda in Pakistan.


The five were among seven men alleged to have conspired to bomb a
central London nightclub and shopping centre, bring down a plane
as well as hit gas and electricity supplies, killing hundreds in
the process.


One of them also discussed trying to buy a radioactive "dirty
bomb" from the Russian mafia to be "bigger than 9/11", but
nothing appeared to have come from his enquiries, Britain's
longest-running terrorism trial was told.


But there were calls for a renewed inquiry after revelations that
one of the convicted, Omar Khyam, boasted of working for Al-
Qaeda's number three, Abdul Hadi, and who also had links to the
London suicide bombers in 2005.


This information was kept from jurors during the year-long trial,
for fear of prejudicing their deliberations.


US authorities announced last Friday that Hadi, also known as
Adbul al-Hadi al- Iraqi, had been captured and taken to the US-
run Guantanamo Bay detention camp for security suspects in Cuba.


Khyam, 25, met the presumed ringleader of the London suicide
bombings, Mohammed Sidique Khan, in terrorist training camps in
Pakistan and at least four times in England, while the former was
under surveillance by Britain's domestic intelligence service,
MI5, in the final stages of plotting.


He also met another of the bombers, Shehzad Tanweer, but MI5
assessed that Khan and Tanweer were "peripheral" figures.


They and two other bombers went on to kill themselves and 52
others, as well as injure more than 700, on London transport on
July 7, 2005.


The British government has previously said there was no warning
before the 2005 attacks in London. Revelations of a link with
Khyam immediately prompted calls for an inquiry from opposition
parties and relatives of those who died.


"The consequences of that level of incompetence were such that my
son was killed. That is truly appalling," said Graham Foulkes,
who lost his 22-year-old son, David.


But the chairman of the parliamentary Intelligence and Security
Committee, Labour lawmaker Paul Murphy, said they remained
satisfied there were "no culpable failures" by the security
services in relation to intelligence.


In its official report into the July 7 bombings two years ago,
Murphy's committee last year said the failure to identify Khan
was a "missed opportunity".


Home Secretary John Reid said the fight against terrorism was a
"endless, continuous task", but added: "Very dangerous terrorists
are now behind bars due to the efforts of our security services
and our police."


The seven accused were arrested on March 30, 2004 after more than
half a ton of ammonium nitrate fertiliser was discovered in a
storage facility in west London.


Khyam, Anthony Garcia, 25, Jawad Akbar, 23, Waheed Mahmood, 35,
and 32-year-old Salahuddin Amin were all convicted of conspiracy
to cause explosions likely to endanger life.


Two of their co-defendants -- Shujah Mahmood, 20, and 22-year-old
Nabeel Hussain -- were cleared of the same charge.


Khyam and Garcia were found guilty of possessing 600 kilogrammes
of the chemical for terrorist purposes. Hussain, who faced the
same charge, was cleared.


Khyam was also convicted of possessing aluminium powder for
terrorist purposes. Shujah Mahmood was cleared of that charge.


All the men denied the charges.

