

Seven Chinese oil workers abducted by Ethiopian rebels after a
deadly attack on an oil venture arrived here Monday, a day after
being freed, Chinese officials said.


The hostages arrived in Addis Ababa aboard a military helicopter
from the country's eastern Ogaden region, where they had been
held since last Tuesday, when the rebel Ogaden National
Liberation Front (ONLF) raided the Chinese-run oil site, killing
77 people.


"Yes, they have already arrived. They are at the Chinese embassy
as of now," an embassy official at the airport told AFP on
condition of anonymity. He gave no further details.


It was not immediately clear whether one Somali and one
Ethiopian, also released on Sunday, had also arrived in Addis
Ababa.


The ONLF handed over the hostages to the International Committee
for the Red Cross after a temporary ceasefire was arranged with
the Ethiopian army, with the aid agency acting as mediator.


The rebels, who want independence for ethnic Somalis in
Ethiopia's Ogaden region, had said they wanted to release the
Chinese captives rapidly, without any demands.


The group said in a statement Monday that the government had
begun a crackdown on civilians in Jijiga, the provincial capital
of Somali regional state, which includes Ogaden.


"Now that the Chinese citizens have been released, the ONLF
expects this crackdown to broaden to other areas in Ogaden," the
statement said, calling for the international community to bear
witness to events there.


Ethiopia "must take a different approach to conflict resolution
and agree to internationally-witnessed dialogue with legitimate
representatives of the people of Ogaden," the ONLF said.


Last week's attack, the first on an oil site since the ONLF
issued a threat to foreign companies operating in the region a
year ago, killed 68 Ethiopian workers and nine Chinese.


The ONLF has urged China to stop cooperating with Ethiopia on oil
exploration until the group gains legitimate self-government in
Ogaden, but it said that the attack was not targeting China.

