

Next year's Olympics is being used as a catalyst for repression
in China, allowing hardliners to crack down on peaceful dissent
in the name of stability, according to Amnesty International.


The rights group gave China a failing grade in its third report
since 2005 on the Olympic host nation's performance in living up
to international human rights standards in the run-up to the 2008
Games in Beijing.


Citing "little evidence of reform" in several areas, the report
painted a bleak picture showing the Olympics "as a catalyst (for)
a continued crackdown on human rights defenders, including
prominent rights defence lawyers and those attempting to report
on human rights violations."


China dismissed the report as biased and insisted it was making
progress on human rights.


"A few reports coloured by ulterior political motives issued by
individual organisations won't succeed in slandering China's
progress on human rights," said a statement faxed by the foreign
ministry to AFP.


Amnesty welcomed new measures recently adopted by Chinese
authorities concerning the death penalty and media freedoms.


But it said they were overshadowed by the state's obsession with
stability and a "strike hard" policy adopted to counter peaceful
dissent.


The group said the International Olympic Committee (IOC), which
awarded Beijing the 2008 Games, should pressure China on human
rights issues in the run-up to the Games.


The IOC executive board said recently it had no such leverage.


The Amnesty report cited a call by China's minister of police
last month for a crackdown on "hostile forces", including
religious sects and separatists, ahead of the Olympics.


"We must strike hard at hostile forces both in and outside the
nation," said Zhou Yongkang, urging the crackdown by security to
uphold the goal of creating the "harmonious society" advocated by
President Hu Jintao.


The so-called "strike hard" policy was apparent during the two-
week session of China's rubber-stamp parliament, the National
People's Congress, in March, Amnesty said.


A security clampdown on central Beijing accompanied the session,
and according to some sources thousands of people were locked up
in what was widely seen as a security rehearsal for next year's
Games.


The report emphasised relaxation of media rules for foreign
reporters in China ahead of the Games and a new measure granting
the Supreme Court judicial review of death penalty sentences.


But there was not enough transparency surrounding the latter
measure, it said, while the number of executions in China -- the
highest in the world, according to estimates -- remained a state
secret.


Amnesty applauded the granting of more freedoms for foreign
journalists, who since January 1 this year have been allowed to
travel outside Beijing with fewer impediments, although many had
long ignored the existing hurdles anyway.


But it noted that in September last year, new measures tightened
control over the distribution of news by foreign media
organisations in China, prohibiting dissemination of news deemed
to "endanger China's national security, reputation and
interests."


At the same time censors tightened control of the traditional
news media and further curbed the free flow of information on the
Internet.


The crackdown runs counter to promises by Chinese officials to
ensure "complete media freedom" at the time of the Games, the
report said.

