

The Constitutional Court, which will rule on the legitimacy of
the presidential election that plunged Turkey into crisis, is
primarily tasked with checking whether laws passed by parliament
conform with the country's basic law.


Set up in 1962, it is made up of 11 high-ranking judges and four
substitutes appointed by the president, who remain in office
until the mandatory retirement age of 65 and are barred from
holding any other public or private office.


The Constitutional Court's current president is Tulay Tugcu, 64,
the first woman to hold the post.


The country's top tribunal controls the conformity of laws,
bylaws, government decrees and the standing orders of parliament
with the constitution, but can rule only on the form and not the
content of constitutional amendments.


In the suit filed by the opposition Republican People's Party
challenging the first round of voting Friday in the presidential
election, in which Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul is the sole
candidate, it must rule on whether there was a sufficient quorum
to start the session.


If it finds in favor of the plaintiff, the vote will be annulled
and general elections may be called in 45 to 90 days.


Most of the current judges sitting on the tribunal were appointed
by outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunch secularist
and a former president of the Constitutional Court.


The magistrates, sitting under the name of Supreme Court, also
constitute the only judicial body in Turkey authorized to judge
heads of state and government ministers.


Several ministers and former ministers are currently on trial
before the Supreme Court, mainly on fraud and corruption charges.


It controls the finances of political parties and it is also
authorized to abolish them in suits filed by the office of the
Chief Prosecutor of the Republic.


The governing Justice and Development Party has its roots in
several Islamist parties that were abolished by the
Constitutional Court on the grounds of anti- secular activity.

