

A Spanish court is examining a war crimes lawsuit filed against
former US defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld over the Iraq war by
a Spanish civil rights group, the group's lawyer said Monday.


The lawsuit concerns the decision to invade Iraq and related
events such as the alleged detainee abuse at the Abu Ghraib
prison, Luis Ocana, the lawyer for the Seville Social Forum, told
AFP.


It was directed against Rumsfeld but may be extended to other
military or civilian officials in the United States who played a
role in the decision to invade Iraq, he added.


The left-wing rights group, which campaigns against globalization
and Western military interventions, first filed the lawsuit in
February at a regional court in the southern city of Seville
where it is based.


At the time a meeting of defence ministers from NATO member
states, which was attended by Rumsfeld's successor Robert Gates,
was taking place in Seville.


But as the regional court does not have the authority to rule on
the issue, the lawsuit was sent on to Spain's highest court, the
Audiencia Nacional, which will decide whether or not to hear it,
Ocana said.


The court could take several months to make a decision.


German prosecutors on Friday decided against launching a probe
into Rumsfeld over alleged detainee abuse at the Abu Ghraib and
Guantanamo prisons.


German civil rights groups had filed a suit in November seeking
war crimes charges but prosecutors rejected it, arguing that the
alleged wrongdoings took place outside Germany and that those
accused were neither German nor lived in the country.


According to German news weekly Der Spiegel, Berlin lawyer
Wolfgang Kaleck together with unnamed Spanish lawyers now plan to
file in Spain a lawsuit against Rumsfeld and 13 other top US
political and military officials over the Iraq war.


"If the Germans aren't bold enough then we'll try in Spain,"
Kaleck said, according to the magazine. Ocana said he had no
knowledge of the lawsuit planned by the German lawyer.

