

Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan has named seven uncapped players
in a 30-man squad to play two away Tests against Argentina this
summer, including rugby league convert Brian Carney.


Ex-Wigan winger Carney, who won 14 caps for Great Britain, is one
of four uncapped players in the back division, while props Peter
Bracken, Tony Buckley and impressive Leicester flanker Shane
Jennings also get a call-up.


Alan Quinlan and Leo Cullen return to the Irish squad after
missing out on the Six Nations, as does Stephen Ferris who was
ruled out for much of the campaign due to a hand injury.


Malcolm O'Kelly also returns to the squad having recovered from
his knee injury that sidelined him for the entire championship,
but star centres Brian O'Driscoll and Gordon D'Arcy will not make
the trip.


In an impressive show of his squad's strength in depth,
O'Sullivan has likewise rested other first-team stalwarts such as
lock Paul O'Connell, flankers Denis Leamy, Simon Easterby and
David Wallace, half-backs Ronan O'Gara and Peter Stringer, and
outbacks Girvan Dempsey, Shane Horgan and Denis Hickie.


The twice-capped Bernard Jackman is also named in the squad as
one of three hookers on the touring party.


"This tour was always about looking at options with the World Cup
in mind," said O'Sullivan.


"It is an opportunity for players to put their cases forward for
France and in doing so allowed us to rest the majority of the Six
Nations squad.


"Argentina is always a tough place to tour and this will be no
different.  It gives us the chance to look at players in a
pressurised Test match environment and as well as some
experienced players, there are also some new prospects there who
will benefit from the experience."


O'Sullivan said Carney had deserved his call-up.


"Brian has done well for Munster since his arrival and has earned
a call into the squad," the coach said.


"He has moved across from league without too much disruption to
his game and I thought this was a good time to move him onto the
next level and see how he performs."


Ireland Squad


Forwards (17)


Neil Best (Ulster), Simon Best (Ulster), Peter Bracken
(Wasps/ENG), Tony Buckley (Munster), Leo Cullen (Leicester),
Stephen Ferris (Ulster), Jerry Flannery (Munster), Keith Gleeson
(Leinster), Jamie Heaslip (Leinster), Trevor Hogan (Leinster),
Bernard Jackman (Leinster), Shane Jennings (Leicester/ENG), Mick
O'Driscoll (Munster), Malcolm O'Kelly (Leinster), Alan Quinlan
(Munster), Frankie Sheahan (Munster), Bryan Young (Ulster)


Backs (13)


Isaac Boss (Ulster), Tommy Bowe (Munster), Brian Carney
(Munster), Gavin Duffy (Connacht), Robert Kearney (Leinster),
Kieran Lewis (Leinster), Barry Murphy (Munster), Geordan Murphy
(Leicester/ENG), Tomas O'Leary (Munster), Eoin Reddan
(Wasps/ENG), Jeremy Staunton (Wasps/ENG), Andrew Trimble
(Ulster), Paddy Wallace (Ulster)


May 26: First Test v Argentina, Sante Fe City


June 2: Second Test v Argentina, Buenos Aries

