

Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Ceku said he expected his disputed
province to declare independence from Serbia by the end of May,
in a New York Times interview published Monday.


Ceku said there was strong international support for the move
even though Kosovo's final status has yet to be agreed by the UN
Security Council and Russia has threatened to veto a current
plan.


"I expect Kosovo to be able to declare its independence by the
end of May," Ceku told the paper.


"There is a very strong US commitment to do this," he said,
adding that, "It wants to finish the job. Britain's (prime
minister) Tony Blair is on board, too."


The European Union's German presidency was also likely to push
for a quick resolution of Kosovo's status, Ceku said.


"With the G-8 meeting due to take place in June, I don't think
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany will want G-8 countries to
attend the summit without resolving Kosovo's status."


Former US envoy to the Balkans and the UN, Richard Holbrooke,
said at the weekend that Washington could unilaterally recognise
Kosovo's independence even if Russia vetoes such a move at the
United Nations.


"If Russia decides to use its veto (in the UN Security Council),
there will be a declaration of independence in Kosovo, and the
United States will recognise Kosovo the same day," Richard
Holbrooke predicted during a conference in Brussels, adding that
he believed several EU states would follow suit.


The ethnic Albanian dominated province in southern Serbia has
been under UN administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing
helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown against Albanians.


Its future status is expected finally to be determined in coming
weeks as the UN Security Council begins a debate on UN special
envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan to hand increasingly impatient
ethnic Albanians their wish for statehood.


The Ahtisaari proposals, drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina, would grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, including its own
constitution, flag and anthem.


The proposals have the backing of the United States, the European
Union, and leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90
percent of Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


However Serbia, which sees the province as its historic heartland
and has won support from Russia, has rejected Ahtisaari's
proposals as a violation of its territorial integrity.


"Russia is using Kosovo to prove it is a player," Ceku claimed in
the New York Times interview, adding that he expected to achieve
independence for the province even if Moscow tries to block the
resolution.


"Our friends who are realistic and countries that have invested
soldiers, money and eight years of engagement here, and who are
planning to be present, want an end to this unresolved status,"
he said.


"Why should those countries which have not invested time, money
and people here block a UN resolution? Saying no to the Ahtisaari
proposal would be a big decision."


Ceku insisted that Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and
others countering independence for Kosovo were not working in
Serbia's best interest.


"There are Serbian leaders, radicals and politicians who are
using Kosovo as a propaganda hit for them," Ceku said.


"On the other side, you have moderate young people who are tired
of all these old stories about Kosovo. They want to look forward
and join Europe. Serbia is being blocked by the old past," he
added.


After the Serbian military left, some 220,000 Serb civilians in
the province fled in the face of reprisal attacks by ethnic
Albanian extremists that killed dozens. Around 100,000 Serbs
remain there.


"The biggest service Kostunica could do for the Kosovo Serbs is
to let them go," Ceku said. "As soon as he understands it then he
will be a great patriot."

