

East Timor's President Xanana Gusmao was elected the chairman of
a controversial new political party on Monday.


Gusmao was the sole candidate for the chairmanship of the new
organisation, the National Congress of Reconstruction of Timor
(CNRT), which has already drawn criticism from a rival party.


"With this result, the president and the secretary general for
the 2007-2012 period are Kay Rala Xanana Gusmao and Dioniso
Babo," party spokesman Virgilio Smith said.


Gusmao, a charismatic onetime guerrilla leader, made no immediate
comment.


He is not seeking re-election in the former Portuguese colony's
ongoing presidential poll, which is to be decided by a runoff
vote on May 9.


But he has said he wants to become prime minister, a more
powerful job in East Timor than the largely ceremonial role of
president, providing the new party does well enough in a
parliamentary election due in June.


East Timor's ruling Fretilin party, the most powerful political
force in the troubled and impoverished country, has already
attacked CNRT.


The new party's initials, which are based on the Portuguese
version of its name, are the same as a now disbanded pro-
independence movement active during East Timor's occupation by
Indonesia.


Mari Alkatiri, the Secretary General of Fretilin, has said the
use of the initials was "cynical" and "opportunistic" and has
threatened legal action.


The May 9 presidential runoff pits Prime Minister Jose Ramos-
Horta against Fretilin's candidate Francisco Guterres.


If Ramos-Horta wins and Gusmao achieves his goal of becoming
premier, the two associates would end up swapping their current
jobs. Gusmao has backed Ramos- Horta's candidacy.


The presidential election is East Timor's first since it achieved
independence in 2002, after 24 years of occupation by Indonesia
and a period of UN stewardship.


Gusmao, feted by many East Timorese for taking up arms against
occupying Indonesian forces, became head of state in a
presidential poll prior to independence.

