

A massive Irish government-backed savings scheme is set to begin
paying out over seven billion euros (9.5 billion dollars) this
week, officials said Monday, as a general election race gets
under way.


The five-year savings scheme -- introduced on May 1, 2001 by
then-finance minister Charlie McCreevy who is now Ireland's EU
Commissioner -- involved the government giving one euro for every
four euros saved.


The giveaway, called Special Savings Incentive Accounts (SSIAs),
was originally rolled out to encourage thrift as well as to
provide an opportunity for people to increase their pension
savings.


The prospect of "free money" encouraged about 1.1 million people
-- about one in six of the country's electorate -- to open
accounts.


The sweetener has been the combination of a 25 percent government
"top up" match on all contributions and a 23 percent exit tax
that is levied only on the accumulated investment profits.


Savers are now getting back the amount they saved, plus the
government top-up, plus the interest or investment return earned
on the account.


The minimum contribution was 12.70 euros per month with a maximum
of 254 euros per month. Overall it will amount to some 7.5
billion euros (10.2 billion dollars).


When the scheme started political analysts observed that it had
the potential to give a valuable feel-good factor boost in an
election campaign if the government ran for its five-year term.


So it has proved.


Ireland's money watchdog, the consumer director of the Irish
Financial Services Regulator said in a statement that the last
half of the account holders are getting their cash -- a day after
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern called a general election for May 24.


"Today, over half a million SSIAs will mature and people will
start to receive their SSIA funds from this week," said the
consumer director Mary O'Dea who urged people to shop around to
get the best rate for their new nest-egg.


"While many people may not yet have decided what to do with their
money, many will put it on deposit, either for the medium term,
or until they have made a decision about what they want to do,"
O'Dea said.


The estimated payout for the scheme for the whole of the last
year is in the region of 15 billion euros.

