

Gavin Henson and former captain Colin Charvis have been given a
chance to stake a claim for World Cup selection after being named
in the 28-strong Wales squad's two-Test tour to Australia this
summer.


Henson, 25, has not played since January because of a knee injury
but might get a run out for his club Ospreys against Border
Reivers in the final match weekend of the Celtic League before
departing down under.


"I was shocked but delighted to get the phone call this morning
but I'm determined to give 100 percent during this tour," said
Henson. "I've been out of rugby for four or five months but I've
been working hard on my rehab."


Backrower Charvis has been in cracking form for Newport-Gwent
Dragons but has not played a Test for his country since the 18-18
draw with Italy in March 2006.


Coach Gareth Jenkins has chosen former skipper Gareth Thomas as
tour captain despite objections from his club Toulouse.


A total of 18 frontline Wales players, including Lions Shane
Williams, Tom Shanklin, Stephen Jones, Dwayne Peel and Martyn
Williams, will remain at home and take part in a summer training
camp.


For the Australia tour, there are also recalls for Scarlets pair
Dafydd James and Iestyn Thomas, plus Dragons No 8 Michael Owen,
who was dropped from Wales' Six Nations squad.


Also included among the back-row options is Cardiff Blues open-
side Robin Sowden-Taylor, who has made a successful return from
the broken and dislocated ankle he suffered in September.


Coach Jenkins stressed that selection for the World Cup was still
wide open.


"Ultimately we will be picking the group of 30 players that we
believe will give us the best chance of winning the Rugby World
Cup," he said.


"If you're playing well then you are never too old and never too
young. Selection will be about the here and now and so those
players in possession of the shirts on tour to Australia have
every chance of holding on to them.


"There are some players who have not had the opportunity to show
us their talents. We finished the Six Nations strongly and were
able to maintain consistency of selection during that campaign,
but we also have an open mind and this tour will help us gain
clarity of thought certain areas of selection."


Wales play Australia in the first Test in Sydney on May 26, with
the return a week later in Brisbane.


Squad


Backs: Lee Byrne (Ospreys), Chris Czekaj (Cardiff Blues), Hal
Luscombe (Harlequins/ENG), Dafydd James (Llanelli Scarlets),
Jamie Robinson (Cardiff Blues), Gareth Thomas (Toulouse/FRA,
capt), Gavin Henson (Ospreys), Aled Brew (Newport Gwent Dragons),
Ceri Sweeney (Newport Gwent Dragons), James Hook (Ospreys),
Gareth Cooper (Newport Gwent Dragons), Mike Phillips (Cardiff
Blues), Andy Williams (Bath/ENG)


Forwards: Ceri Jones (Harlequins/ENG), Iestyn Thomas (Llanelli
Scarlets), Rhys Thomas (Newport Gwent Dragons), Adam Jones
(Ospreys), Huw Bennett (Ospreys), Richard Hibbard (Ospreys),
Mefin Davies (Gloucester/ENG), Brent Cockbain (Ospreys), Robert
Sidoli (Cardiff Blues), Scott Morgan (Cardiff Blues), Jon Thomas
(Ospreys), Gavin Thomas (Llanelli Scarlets), Colin Charvis
(Newport Gwent Dragons), Michael Owen (Newport Gwent Dragons),
Robin Sowden-Taylor (Cardiff Blues)

