

Delta Air Lines emerged Monday from bankruptcy protection after a
19-month reorganization that helped the third-largest US carrier
get past the long crisis in the airline industry.


"This is a great day in Delta's history -- a day that would not
have been possible without the hard work and sacrifice of Delta
people around the world," said Delta chief executive Gerald
Grinstein in announcing the news.


"Through our restructuring we have successfully repaired our
balance sheet, improved the customer experience, expanded our
international route system and built a platform for future
success. Delta is now a fierce competitor in a tough industry and
we are confident that we will reclaim our rightful place as an
industry leader."


Delta exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection Monday after a
judge last week approved the final details of reorganization.


Grinstein, who is set to leave his post within 60 days, would
continue its strategy of increasing its international flights.


He said, "I wouldn't be surprised if we have a 50-50 repartition
between international and domestic routes" compared with 35
percent today for international


"We fully expect to become a major carrier in Asia -- especially
China."


Delta said its existing shares will be cancelled and that new
stock will be issued later this week and traded under the "DAL"
symbol.


Standard & Poor's said Delta will have below-investment grade
B credit rating.


This reflects "risks associated with participation in the price-
competitive, cyclical, and capital-intensive airline industry,"
said S&P analyst Philip Baggaley.


Delta and Northwest Airlines had filed for creditor protection on
the same day in September 2005, which at the time left four of
the top six carriers in bankruptcy.


Since that time, the remaining carriers, with the exception of
Northwest, have emerged from court supervision and the financial
picture of the industry has markedly improved.


Delta lost 6.2 billion dollars in 2006 amid a hefty 5.4-billion
charge for reorganization.


The carrier posted a much narrower 130-million dollar loss in the
first quarter of 2007, but sees its financial picture improving
after major cost-cutting efforts.


A US bankruptcy court judge in New York approved the details of
the plan April 25. The airline has a 2.5 billion-dollar exit
financing package that will be used to repay the a 2.1 billion-
dollar credit used during the bankruptcy process.


Delta said the reorganization process built on five years of
change that led to more than eight billion dollars in annual cost
cuts and revenue improvements.


"Rather than simply cut costs, Delta used the Chapter 11 process
to completely transform every aspect of our business and create a
platform for long-term success that will enable us to weather
future volatility in the airline industry," said Edward Bastian,
Delta's chief financial officer.


The US airline industry has been struggling with its worst-ever
crisis since the September 11, 2001 attacks triggered a slump in
air travel, and carriers were hit with record-high fuel prices.
But there are signs of improving conditions.


The Air Transport Association of America, a trade organization of
the leading US airlines, is projecting an overall net profit of
approximately four billion dollars for passenger and cargo
airlines in 2007 after earnings of between two and three billion
dollars in 2006.


A profitable 2006-2007 would be the first back-to-back period of
profitability since 1999-2000. US airlines lost a total of 10
billion dollars in 2005.


The traditional full service airlines such as Delta have been
hurt by competition from low-cost startups like Southwest and
JetBlue, which do not have "legacy" pension and health care costs
and often have lower wages as well.


As part of its streamlining, Delta won pay and benefit
concessions from employee groups, including pilots, and cut its
workforce from 66,500 in 2005 to 47,000.

