

A jury found five men guilty Monday of plotting deadly attacks on
British targets, including one who claimed to work for Al-Qaeda's
number three and had links to the 2005 London suicide bombers.


The men were among seven alleged to have conspired to cause
explosions at a central London nightclub and shopping centre, as
well as hit gas and electricity supplies using bombs made from
chemical fertiliser.


One also discussed trying to buy a radioactive "dirty bomb" from
the Russian mafia but nothing appeared to have come from his
enquiries, the year-long trial at London's Central Criminal Court
was told.


Omar Khyam, who boasted of working for Al-Qaeda's number three,
Abdul Hadi, also had links to the presumed ringleader of the July
7, 2005 suicide attacks on London, Mohamed Sidique Khan.


This information was kept from jurors during the trial, for fear
of prejudicing their deliberations.


Khyam, 25, and Khan met each other on terrorist training camps in
Pakistan and at least four times in England, while the former was
under surveillance by Britain's domestic intelligence service,
MI5, in the final stages of plotting.


He also met another of the bombers, Shehzad Tanweer. But MI5
assessed that Khan and Tanweer were "peripheral" figures.


They and two other bombers went on to kill themselves and 52
others, as well as injure more than 700.


An American called Mohammed Junaid Babar, with whom the
fertiliser bomb plotters are said to have conspired, turned
"supergrass" after admitting his role to the US Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI).


He told them of his concerns about Khan and said he should be
investigated, but was said to have been angry when it emerged
that he had not been.


The British government has previously said there was no warning
before the attacks. Revelations of a link with Khyam immediately
prompted calls for an inquiry from opposition parties and
relatives of those who died.


"The consequences of that level of incompetence were such that my
son was killed. That is truly appalling," said Graham Foulkes,
who lost his 22-year-old son, David.


But the chairman of the parliamentary Intelligence and Security
Committee, Labour lawmaker Paul Murphy, said they remained
satisfied there were "no culpable failures" by the security
services in relation to intelligence.


In its official report into the July 7 bombings, Murphy's
committee last year said the failure to identify Khan was a
"missed opportunity".


Home Secretary John Reid said the fight against terrorism was a
"endless, continuous task", but added: "Very dangerous terrorists
are now behind bars due to the efforts of our security services
and our police."


The seven accused of the fertiliser bomb plot were arrested on
March 30, 2004 after more than half a ton of the chemical was
discovered in a storage facility in west London.


Khyam, Anthony Garcia, 25, Jawad Akbar, 23, Waheed Mahmood, 35,
and 32-year-old Salahuddin Amin were all convicted conspiracy to
cause explosions likely to endanger life.


Two of their co-defendants -- Shujah Mahmood, 20, and 22-year-old
Nabeel Hussain -- were cleared of the same charge.


Khyam and Garcia were found guilty of possessing 600 kilogrammes
of ammonium nitrate fertiliser for terrorist purposes. Hussain,
who faced the same charge, was cleared.


Khyam was also convicted of possessing aluminium powder for
terrorist purposes. Shujah Mahmood was cleared of that charge.


All the men had pleaded not guilty, denying there was a
conspiracy.

