

Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem said he was ready to meet
his US counterpart on the sidelines of a conference on Iraq
security this week, Lebanon's ANB television said on Monday.


"The Americans have not made such a request, but if Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice wishes, then we can meet," Muallem said in
an interview aired late on Sunday.


Washington accuses the Syrian regime of allowing anti-US
insurgents to cross from Syria into Iraq and of supporting
terrorist groups in Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories.


The US withdrew its ambassador from Damascus after linking Syria
to the February 2005 assassination in Beirut of former Lebanese
prime minister Rafiq Hariri, an outspoken opponent of Syrian
dominance over Lebanon.


Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic Speaker of the US House of
Representatives, visited Syria earlier this month and met
President Bashar al-Assad against strong White House objections.


Rice on Sunday did not rule out a meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh with
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, Syria's main
regional ally which the US accuses of seeking nuclear arms and of
sponsoring insurgents in Iraq.


"The mere fact that the conference is being held constitutes an
admission that the United States cannot resolve the Iraqi
conflict by itself," Muallem said.


On the Middle East peace process, Muallem said "establishing
peace between the Arab states and Israel is not on the agenda" of
the Bush administration.


"Syria backed the Arab peace initiative" which Arab states
revived at their summit meeting in Riyadh in March, said Muallem.
"But Israel does not want peace."


Muallem downplayed the chances of a new war in the Middle East,
including a conflict with Iran over its nuclear programme,
"because the Israeli government is weak and the US Administration
is in a delicate situation internally."


"We will most probably remain in a situation of no war and no
peace," he said.


Muallem also reiterated criticism of the UN-drafted statutes of
the international tribunal due to be established to try suspects
in the Hariri murder which was widely blamed on Syria. Damascus
denied any involvement in the killing.


The statutes, which "are unprecedented in the history of
international tribunals... will make the general prosecutor a
high commissioner not only over Lebanon but also in all the
region.


"Such a tribunal could lead to divisions in Lebanon," he warned.


"We hope that the Lebanese agree among themselves" on the
tribunal which has yet to be established because of deep
divisions between the pro-Western government in Beirut and the
Syrian-backed opposition.


Damascus refuses to allow any Syrian suspects to appear before
the proposed court.

