

Khaled Meshaal, the political chief of the Palestinian Islamist
movement Hamas, on Monday warned of a "big explosion" in the
Middle East if Palestinian problems are not solved.


"I am issuing a firm warning," Meshaal said in an interview with
the Al-Ayyam daily in Ramallah.


"If the Palestinian people have no way out, and if the siege, the
collective sanctions, Israeli aggression and the absence of a
political perspective continue... this will lead to a big
explosion that will not only affect the Palestinians but the
entire region, notably the Zionist entity," he said, referring to
Israel.


"In my opinion, today's conditions resemble those in the late
1990s... that prepared the ground for the intifada" or
Palestinian uprising launched in September 2000, he said.


Meshaal, Hamas's political supremo who lives in exile in
Damascus, gave the interview in Cairo where he held talks with
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas on Saturday.


Meshaal again deplored the embargo on direct aid to the
Palestinian government that was imposed by the European Union and
the United States last year after Hamas formed a cabinet alone
following its clear victory in parliamentary polls.


Hoping to break the aid freeze, the Islamists on March 17 formed
a cabinet of national unity with Abbas's secular Fatah party and
Western-backed independents. So far the West has declined to lift
it, however, channelling funds via mechanisms that bypass the
government instead.


The EU and the US, which along with Israel consider Hamas to be a
terror group, are demanding that the movement explicitly renounce
violence, recognise Israel and agree to abide by past peace deals
if direct aid is to resume.


Meshaal repeated that he was ready to accept a Palestinian state
in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, occupied by Israel in the 1967
Six Day War, but declined to say whether such a state would
recognise Israel.


"Let us first establish a Palestinian state in the 1967
territories. Afterwards we will know how to deal with the
political reality," he said.


"One cannot demand that the Palestinian people respond to
hypothetical situations when they are still suffering under the
occupation and do not see any change in the Israeli position."

