

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Monday met with Japan's
emperor at the start of his first visit to East Asia set to focus
on developing the war-torn country's oil industry.


After arriving half a day late Sunday when Iran reportedly barred
his plane from its airspace, Maliki was due for a day of meetings
with Japanese leaders including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


Maliki opened his visit by attending a ceremonial audience with
Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at their palace in central
Tokyo, a spokesman for the Imperial Household Agency said.


Maliki was starting his first visit to Japan and South Korea, two
key economic partners of Iraq which both sent troops after the
US-led coalition toppled Saddam Hussein four years ago.


US President George W. Bush has frequently cited the alliance
between the United States and Japan -- where Akihito's father
Hirohito was revered as a demigod until 1945 -- as an example of
reconciliation for Iraq.


But the Iraq war has also faced opposition in Japan. Defence
Minister Fumio Kyuma, whom Maliki was due to meet later Monday,
caused a stir in January when he said the US decision to invade
Iraq was "wrong."


In his visit to Tokyo set to run through Wednesday, Maliki is
expected to sign a 700-million-dollar loan agreement to help his
war-torn country improve crude oil output and power generation.


The 40-year loan is part of six billion dollars in debt waivers
and 1.5 billion dollars in aid which Japan announced for Iraq in
2003. Much of the aid is on hold due to concerns about
instability.


"Iraq is important for us in terms of securing stable supply of
crude oil. In that context, we would like to form a long-term
partnership with Iraq," a Japanese foreign ministry official
said.


Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has few natural
resources and is almost entirely dependent on the Middle East for
its oil.


"We have so far offered humanitarian assistance through the Self-
Defence Forces, development assistance and debt waivers. Now we
want to shift our relations to become a strategic partner of
Iraq, which has the world's third largest oil reserves," the
official said.


Japan, which has been officially pacifist since defeat in World
War II, took the landmark step of sending 600 troops there on a
reconstruction mission.


It marked the first time since 1945 that Japan sent its soldiers
-- which it calls the Self-Defence Forces due to the pacifist
constitution -- to a country where fighting was under way.


Japan ended the troop deployment last year. But Abe last month
decided to extend by two years an air mission flying goods and
personnel into Iraq on behalf of the United Nations and the US-
led coalition.

