

Key events since the overthrow of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein
four years ago:


2003


- April 9: Twenty days after launching a massive air and land
assault on Iraq, US forces enter Baghdad and topple Saddam's
regime


- May 1: From an aircraft carrier, Bush announces that major
combat is over. A banner behind him reads "Mission Accomplished."


- August: Iraq is hit by the first of innumerable bomb blasts,
many causing horrific casualties. One blast kills the top UN
official in Iraq, and 10 days later another kills 83 people in
the holy city of Najaf.


- December: US forces capture Saddam, unkempt and hiding in a
hole in the ground. "We got him," crows the US-appointed ruler of
the country.


2004


- March: In the first major exit from the US-led coalition, Spain
decides to pull out its forces following devastating bomb attacks
in Madrid.


- April: US media show photographs taken by US military in Abu
Ghraib prison, of Iraqi detainees being tortured by grinning
American soldiers.


- June: An interim government is set up. The US authorities
declare that Iraq now enjoys sovereignty.


- August: Iraq's Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr launches a
rebellion against US troops in Najaf. Hundreds of his fighters
are killed before a ceasefire is announced.


- November: More than 10,000 US soldiers backed by 2,000 Iraqi
troops launch a massive assault on the city of Fallujah.


2005


- January: The US administration says it is giving up its search
for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, having found none. The
supposed presence of such weapons had been the main reason given
for invading the country.


Nationwide elections give a large majority to Shiite Muslim
parties, but many Sunnis refuse to vote. Kurdish parties make a
strong showing.


- October: A new constitution, approved by referendum, gives wide
autonomy to the country's regions, which critics see as a recipe
for partition.


Saddam goes on trial for crimes against humanity


- December: Parliamentary elections attract wide participation,
and give victory to a Shiite alliance.


2006


- February: A bomb attack destroys one of the world's holiest
Shiite shrines, prompting widespread violence between Shiites and
Sunnis.


- June: Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Al-Qaeda's leader in Iraq, is
killed in a US air strike.


- October: A British study concludes that 655,000 civilians have
died since the invasion.


- November: The Bush administration suffers a major setback as
mid-term elections, dominated by the war, deprive it of its
majority in Congress.


Saddam is sentenced to death.


Amid widening civil strife, a single series of attacks kills over
200 people in the Shiite district of Sadr City in Baghdad.


- December: Saddam is hanged. Videos showing him being taunted by
his Shiite guards are circulated on the Internet, causing fury in
the Muslim world.


2007:


- January: The number of US military dead passes the 3,000 mark.


Bush orders around 30,000 more troops into Iraq in a bid to
secure Baghdad, where dozens of corpses are showing up every day.


Two of Saddam's former aides, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti and Awad
Ahmed al-Bandar are hanged.


- February: Britain, the closest US ally, says it will begin
reducing the number of its troops, who are mostly deployed in
southern Iraq.


- March: The fourth anniversary of the invasion, on March 20, is
greeted by antiwar protests around the world.


- April: Hundreds of thousands of Shiites join an anti-US rally
in Najaf on the fourth anniversary of the toppling of Saddam.

