

Goalie Wade Dubielewicz slammed the door in the shootout as the
New York Islanders seized the final Eastern Conference playoff
spot with a 3-2 win over New Jersey Sunday.


After Toronto edged Montreal on Saturday, the Islanders
(40-30-12) needed a win in their regular-season finale to clinch
their first playoff spot since 2004.


They literally were a second away when John Madden scored his
second goal of the game to force overtime.


After a scoreless extra session, Miroslav Satan and former Devil
Viktor Kozlov beat goaltender Scott Clemmensen in the shootout.


Dubielewicz, subbing again for the injured Rick DiPietro, was
beaten by Zach Parise but stopped Brian Gionta and Sergei Brylin
with consecutive pokechecks.


After denying Brylin to secure the win, Dubielewicz was mobbed by
teammates as first-year coach Ted Nolan celebrated on the bench
with his assistants.


The Isles victory eliminates the Maple Leafs.


Nolan will head back to Buffalo, where he coached from 1995-97,
for a conference quarter-final matchup with the Sabres (53-22-7),
who won the Presidents' Trophy as the NHL's top team in the
regular season.


For a while, it appeared Richard Park would be the hero for the
Islanders, who closed the season with a four-game winning streak.
One of only two players in the team's lineup with a Stanley Cup
ring, Park recorded his first two-goal game since January 21,
2004.


That came one day after the South Korean notched the game-winner
in Philadelphia to keep alive New York's playoff hopes.


But Madden scored twice in the final 4:13 of the third period to
bring the crowd to life in the last regular-season game ever at
Continental Airlines Arena.


The equalizer came with nine-tenths of a second left as Madden
lifted a backhander over Dubielewicz after his deflection hit the
sprawled goalie.


With the division title already wrapped up - as well as a first-
round playoff matchup with Tampa Bay - the Devils (49-24-9)
rested Martin Brodeur, who had started 50 of the previous 51
games and made a career-high 78 appearances this season.

