

Real Madrid's under-fire Brazilian international midfielder
Emerson could be a key element in the Spanish giant's late title
push, said coach Fabio Capello here on Sunday.


Capello opted to start with Emerson in Real's Santiago Bernabeu
stadium for the first time in nearly two months and he responded
by having an oustanding game in Real's 2-0 win over Osasuna on
Sunday.


Emerson created the first goal for Raul and third-placed Real are
now only two points away from league leaders and bitter rivals
Barcelona.


"Today we saw the Emerson that I know and I think he can still be
much better. With his recovery, we can fight for the title," said
Capello after Real's third successive win.


Real are now unbeaten in their last eight league games.


"He's an important player, recovering balls, tackling well,
giving passes that lead to goals. His recovery is important for
the team," added the Italian, who has had Emerson under his wing
for the last seven seasons and in three different clubs.


Capello signed Emerson from Bayer Leverkusen in the summer of
2000 when he was at Roma and the player followed Capello when he
moved to coach Juventus in 2004.


The pair travelled together once again when Capello took over at
the helm of Real Madrid last summer.


"I'm happy that Emerson has returned to the starting line up and
returned to playing like I know he can," added Emerson's
compatriot Robinho, the author of Real's second goal on Sunday.


Emerson had said that he believed he had been made the scapegoat
for Real's fans anger earlier in the season when the results were
not going their way and because he was too closely linked to
Capello.


"I've been criticised because I was signed by Capello but I've
played in Germany, in Italy and with Brazil so why should I fear
the Bernabeu," said Emerson, who celebrated his 30th birthday on
Wednesday.


Capello reiterated his belief that Real can win the 30th La Liga
crown in their history and end a barren streak of major titles
which stretches back to the start of the 2003-04 season, the
longest since the early 1950s.


"I'm not going to talk about the percentage chance of taking the
title. We will have to go game-by-game to the end of the season.


"We've clawed back the points, we're in good physical condition
and the good spirit of the team is important. Also, when we win
games like this it's good psychologically, and that's the most
important thing," added Capello.

