

A leading contender in South Korea's presidential race said
Monday that Seoul should not rush to resume aid to North Korea
until it honours its nuclear disarmament promises.


Park Geun-Hye criticised government policy and said both "sticks
and carrots" should be fully used to ensure successful
negotiations.


"The current administration's engagement policy was doomed to
fail as North Korea has had no incentive whatsoever to change,"
Park, of the opposition conservative Grand National Party (GNP),
told a news conference.


Park, whose mother was assassinated by a pro-North Korean
activist in 1974, said the policy of "giving and then giving some
more" had held back change in the hardline communist North.


"We should reward the North for each promise it keeps, but at the
same time strictly enforce penalties should North Korea break its
agreements."


South Korea suspended its regular aid shipments after the North's
missile tests last July.


Relations chilled further after the October 9 nuclear test.


But Seoul resumed fertiliser shipments following progress at six-
party nuclear disarmament talks and agreed in principle to resume
food aid.


"At this time, we still don't know the true intentions of North
Korea," Park said.


"If we rush forward too quickly, the North may perceive this as a
crack in the united front of the international community, and it
may be more difficult to fully resolve this issue."


She suggested South Korea also suspend joint projects that
provide "hard currency" to its cash-strapped neighbour until it
completely dismantles its nuclear programme.


South Korea and other members of a six-party forum must set a
"clear timeframe" for the dismantlement of the North's nuclear
programmes, she said.


In Beijing on February 13, North Korea agreed to disable all its
atomic programmes in exchange for economic aid and diplomatic
guarantees, but no timeframe was set for the overall acccord.


Park, the eldest daughter of authoritarian president Park Chung-
Hee who ruled from 1961 to 1979, began her own political career
in 1998 as a parliamentarian.


She acted as first lady for five years after an assassin trying
to kill her father killed her mother instead.


Park's main rival for the GNP's nomination at a convention
planned for August is former Seoul mayor Lee Myung-Bak.


Most recent opinion polls show Lee as the front-runner, with an
approval rating of about 45-50 percent compared to about 18
percent for Park.


The Uri party and other left-leaning groups have not nominated
candidates yet.


But their potential choices have attracted five percent or less
in opinion polls so far.


The election is in December.

