

US presidential candidate John McCain on Sunday defended his
optimism while on a Baghdad market tour this month and blamed
news media for casting a shadow on "evidence of progress" in the
war.


The Republican senator insisted that his judgment was not
clouded, and that he simply aimed to present a fuller picture of
Iraq, because the positives are ignored in news of the war.


"I went to Iraq to gain a firsthand view of the progress in this
difficult war, not to celebrate any victories. No one has been
more critical of sunny progress reports that defied realities in
Iraq," he wrote in an editorial published Sunday by the
Washington Post.


"We held a news conference to discuss what we saw: positive
signs, underreported in the United States, that are reason for
cautious optimism."


Among the signs he listed were cooperation from Sunni sheikhs in
the fight against Al-Qaeda, the installation of 50 joint US-Iraqi
security stations in Baghdad, and Iraqi army and police forces
"increasingly fighting on their own."


The presidential candidate drew heaps of criticism for holding a
news conference on April 1 in Baghdad after a heavily guarded
stroll through an oft-bombed market where he insisted that
"things are better."


In an interview with CBS television's "60 Minutes" program aired
Sunday, McCain acknowledged that the security detail for his
market visit was heavy but insisted his trip showed signs of
progress.


"I understand why they would provide me with that security, but I
can tell you if it had been two months ago and I'd asked to do
it, they'd of said, 'Under no circumstances whatsoever.' I view
that as a sign of progress," he told CBS.


The 70-year-old, who shopped in a bullet-proof vest under
military ground and air cover, has since been assailed in the US
media for being "brainwashed," "politically clumsy," and staging
"a photo-op from hell."


Critics also say he was off the mark when he claimed, "There are
neighborhoods in Baghdad where you and I could walk today."


He later said he "misspoke," but continues to champion signs of
progress since the launch of a US troop surge that has sent
80,000 troops to the streets of the Iraqi capital in a massive
security clampdown.


Still, hundreds of people are killed in Iraq each week, as car
and suicide bombers defy the new Iraqi-US security crackdown and
often target markets and crowded gathering-places to increase the
number of casualties.


McCain acknowledged in his editorial that "markets in Baghdad
have faced devastating terrorist attacks," and gave the example
of the Shorja market, which was bombed in February in an attack
that killed 137 people.


"Today the market still faces occasional sniper attacks, but it
is safer than it used to be. One innovation of the new strategy
is closing markets to vehicles, thereby precluding car bombs that
kill so many and garner so much media attention," said McCain,
who visited the market.


In other signs of "progress" McCain cited, "extremist Shiite
militia leader Moqtada al-Sadr is in hiding, his followers are
not contesting American forces, sectarian violence has dropped in
Baghdad."


However, as McCain's article was printed, US and Iraqi forces
were battling militias in the central Shiite city of Diwaniyah
for a third day.


And Sadr, who is believed to have fled to Iran, urged his
militias and security forces to stop the deadly fighting there,
calling it a "trap" by US-led forces.


A Vietnam War hero with 20 years in Congress, McCain is the
candidate most supportive of the unpopular war, though he has
harshly criticized the handling of it.

