

A summit between Iraq's neighbours and world powers next month in
Egypt should only deal with problems in Iraq, and should not be
dominated by issues between the United States, Iran and Syria,
the Iraqi foreign minister said in an interview published Monday.


Speaking to The Guardian, Hoshyar Zebari said that the issue of
Iraq's security should be the "only issue on the agenda," at the
meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and 4.


"We are saying keep your quarrels and fights away; we have enough
on our plate," Zebari told the daily from Baghdad.


"We are getting caught in the middle and the tensions are
affecting us immediately and directly."


Next month's talks are aimed at engaging Iraq's neighbours in
restoring security to the war-torn country, following up on an
initial ambassador-level meeting in Baghdad in March.


The March 10 talks saw the United States and its regional foes,
Iran and Syria, two key Iraq neighbours, hold rare direct talks.


The follow-up ministerial-level conference could see US Secretary
of State Condoleezza Rice meet her Iranian counterpart.


"We should invite them to discuss one subject, Iraq ... This is
the test for our neighbours. It is in their interest to come and
show goodwill and actions and agree to stop meddling," said
Zebari.


"If (they) deliver, then there is a possibility to open other
issues. But Iraq first, that is the key."


The Iraqi foreign ministry said the event will include Iraq's six
neighbours -- Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria and
Turkey -- plus Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League, the Organisation
of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.


Also attending will be the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United
States -- and members of the G8, bringing to the table Canada,
the European Union, Germany, Italy and Japan.


Zebari's announcement of the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting over the
weekend came just days after 15 British sailors were released by
Iran after spending nearly two weeks detained by Tehran for
apparently trespassing into Iranian territorial waters.


Britain insists the group were in Iraqi waters, but the rise in
tension between Britain and Iran was a problem, Zebari
acknowledged.


"It worsened the atmosphere between the US, Britain and Iran, and
that is a concern for us at this vital time," he told the daily.

