

The lines of voters snaked around the grassy schoolyard under a
scorching sun. But the East Timorese from this mountain town
waited patiently, desperate to shape a better future.


They numbered more than 500, hopeful that the new president East
Timor chooses on Monday can steer one of the world's youngest and
poorest nations away from bloodshed and hardship.


The queues in Talimoro, a coffee-growing area south of the
capital, and at polling stations elsewhere in East Timor, pointed
toward a good turnout.


"It seems like (that)," Finn Reske-Nielsen, the deputy head of
the United Nations mission in East Timor, said in Talimoro.


"People are very interested. What I find very encouraging is that
there are a lot of young people and a lot of women," he said.


One of them was Eugenia Nivia Madeira, 21, a student at a
Catholic college, who travelled to Talimoro because there was no
polling station in her village of Lodudo.


She said she arrived at 6:00 am and had been waiting for more
than five hours.


Another voter, Marinho dos Santos, 42, said he arrived two hours
before polls opened at 7:00 am (2200 GMT Sunday).


"I have been waiting more than six hours," said the farmer.


"I hope the new president is going to bring Timor-Leste forward,"
he said, using the formal name of East Timor, which is holding
its first presidential vote since independence in 2002 following
24 years of Indonesian occupation.


The student, Madeira, hoped the new president that succeeded
charismatic former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao could improve
the economy in the surrounding Ermera district, where many
struggle on coffee plantations.


"He should help people here with the price of the coffee, which
is going down," she said.


There was scattered violence between rival political supporters
during the largely peaceful campaign, but voting took place in an
atmosphere free of tension.


"It's peaceful and the people seem to have a lot of enthusiasm,"
said Ahmad Bey Sofwan, Indonesia's ambassador in the capital,
Dili.


Angelo Salsinha, 33, an apprentice priest, said he wanted to try
to shape the future of his country by casting his ballot.


"It is my responsibility to take part and contribute in
determining the future of this nation through this election," he
said in Dili.


Eight candidates, including Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, were
vying to replace Gusmao, who was not seeking re-election.


"It's very important to vote to bring East Timor to a peaceful
future," said Pedro Lopes, a farmer waiting to cast his ballot
with about 60 others on Atauro island, which is visible from the
capital.


In Dili, small groups of voters carrying identity cards could be
seen walking to their polling stations.


A few Australian peacekeepers patrolled on the road to the
airport, in an area which saw many incidents of arson and some
gunfire during unrest last May.


UN police said things were calm as the election got underway. The
only noteworthy incident Sunday saw two drunken East Timorese
soldiers fire weapons into the air.


"No problems have been encountered anywhere," Reske-Nielsen said.


Dili resident Francisca Freitas described the poll as an
important moment.


"I am happy to vote for our future," she said.


Pregnant housewife Natalia da Silva, 23, said she believed the
winner "will bring back peace and stability for the country and
its people."


But Frederico Ximenes, 55, said that whether stability returns
"depends entirely on the voters."


About 37,000 people displaced by deadly unrest last year are
still too afraid to go back to their homes. The violence led to
at least 37 deaths in the former Portugese colony, and forced a
total of 150,000 people to flee.


Sarita Soares, 35, said she hopes the insecurity will end with a
new president.


"I hope that whoever is elected can guarantee that the people
will not have to flee again," Soares said after voting.

