

Wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara believes golden oldies Sanath
Jayasuriya and Muttiah Muralitharan are proving to be the
inspiration as Sri Lanka target a second World Cup title.


Sri Lanka are second in the Super Eights table with six points
following a defeat to South Africa and two wins over West Indies
and England.


The 1996 champions don't play again until Thursday when they
tackle New Zealand here and that has given 34-year-old
Muralitharan plenty of time to recharge his batteries.


"It gives us a chance to relax and also for us to address the
niggling injury concerns that dog all teams," said Sangakkara.


"The chief concern for us is Muttiah Muralitharan's groin. There
was a slight tweak but we are very optimistic that with some
intensive rehab he'll be fighting fit in time for the crucial
game against New Zealand on Thursday."


Muralitharan, who has 444 one-day wickets to his name, took 1-48
in the nail- biting two-run win over England last week.


It was an important victim, catching the dangerous Kevin
Pietersen off his own bowling with the batsman well-set on 58.


"I felt Murali's commitment to the cause in the England game
reminiscent of his astonishing one-legged performance against
Australia at Brisbane in the 2003 VB Series when he nearly spun
us to victory, claiming 4 for 27 despite a pulled thigh muscle,"
Sangakkara wrote in his www.cricinfo.com column.


"It epitomised the huge contribution the senior guys have been
making to this tournament.


"Both the old campaigners, Sanath Jayasuriya (303 runs at an
average of 50.50 for this tournament) and Murali, seem to have
become younger and hungrier.


"They're loving their cricket and that is inspiring for the rest
of the team. Despite all the years and all the matches, they want
more. That spirit, that love for the game, that commitment to the
team is helping to power us."


Sangakkara also believes that the senior players' enthusiasm is
rubbing off on the younger members of the squad, none more so
that seamer Dilhara Fernando who bowled the tense final over to
Ravi Bopara in the win over England.


"Dilhara showed what a long way he has come interms of his
character and nerve," said the keeper.


"He proved he had the mental resilience to be a true matchwinner
for Sri Lanka. With two needed for a tie, Ravi Bopara just need
to get the ball out of the inner ring and the chances are they
could have scrambled home.


"But Dilhara confounded him - and us - with an unexpected choice
of delivery, eschewing the safe and predictable option for a
yorker for a good length ball. It was clever and brilliantly
executed.


"The win was important for us and we know now that we have an
excellent chance of qualifying for the semi-finals if we win one
of our three remaining matches."

