

Sidney Crosby made history and the New York Islanders returned to
the playoffs for the first time since 2004 as the National Hockey
League's regular season wrapped up in dramatic style Sunday.


Crosby, a superstar in just his second season with the Pittsburgh
Penguins, became the youngest player in history to win the Art
Ross Trophy as the NHL's top scorer.


Four months shy of his 20th birthday, Crosby recorded 120 points,
six more than San Jose Sharks centre Joe Thornton, who won the
award last season.


Meanwhile, the Islanders clinched the final post-season berth in
the Eastern Conference with a thrilling 3-2 shootout win over the
New Jersey Devils, who rested No 1 goaltender Martin Brodeur at
East Rutherford.


The victory - in which they wasted a two-goal lead and gave up
the tying goal with less than a second left in regulation -
eliminates the Toronto Maple Leafs from the playoffs.


With 36 goals and 84 assists, Crosby has eclipsed the best
seasons of several former phenoms who were expected to be the
faces of the NHL.


In leading the Penguins to their first playoff berth since 2001,
Crosby won the scoring title while seven months younger than Hall
of Famer and Phoenix Coyote coach Wayne Gretzky, who claimed the
prize in 1981 at 20 years, three months.


Gretzky's Coyotes beat the Vancouver Canucks 3-1 on Sunday but it
might not be enough to allow general manager Mike Barnett to keep
his job. There is speculation in Phoenix that Barnett could be
fired in the coming weeks.


Like Crosby, Alexandre Daigle was once compared to Gretzky. But
Daigle, the first selection of the 1993 draft by Ottawa, only
reached a ceiling of 51 points three times in his enigmatic
career that included a two-year hiatus to pursue acting.


And despite winning the Hart Trophy in 1995, Eric Lindros was not
the dominant force he was touted to be after being drafted first
by Quebec in 1991.


Currently a member of the Dallas Stars, Lindros recorded a
career-best 115 points in 1995-96 but has suffered numerous
concussions during an injury-plagued career.


As a rookie last season, Crosby was one of just seven players to
post at least 100 points and finished second to Washington
Capitals sensation Alex Ovechkin in Calder Trophy voting.


Vincent Lecavalier of the Tampa Bay Lightning won the Maurice
Richard Trophy after scoring a career-high and franchise-record
52 goals, two more than Dany Heatley of the Atlanta Thrashers.


Thornton, who won the Hart Trophy as MVP last season, led the NHL
with a career- best 92 assists.


Thomas Vanek of the Presidents' Trophy-winning Buffalo Sabres
ended the campaign with the league's top plus-minus rating at
plus-47, while Pittsburgh's Evgeni Malkin was the scoring leader
among rookies with 85 points.


On the other side of the puck, goalie Niklas Backstrom of the
Minnesota Wild received a chance when teammate Manny Fernandez
was injured and ran with it.


In his first season in the NHL following a solid career in his
native Finland, Backstrom led all goaltenders in goals-against
average of 1.97.


Two-time Vezina Trophy winner Brodeur of the New Jersey Devils
posted 12 shutouts - just three short of the modern record set by
Hall of Famer Tony Esposito in 1969-70.

