

Cambodia's most famous filmmaker Rithy Panh, whose documentaries
take an unflinching look at the legacy of the Khmer Rouge,
believes the genocide trials here need a top diplomat to jump
start the process.


"The trials are fundamentally political," said the 43-year-old
director, who is acclaimed on the international festival circuit.


"But there's no politician in this institution," he said of the
UN-backed tribunal, which opened nine months ago but has become
bogged down in disputes over the procedural details of the
trials.


"A diplomat should oversee the tribunal," he said in an interview
with AFP and the French news magazine Le Nouvel Observateur.


That person would be able to take the high ground in what Rithy
Panh called some "professional but very technical debates" that
have delayed the start of the trials of surviving Khmer Rouge
leaders.


The 29 international and Cambodian jurists are now feuding over
whether foreign lawyers should have to pay fees in order to
defend suspects at the trials, a dispute which threatens to
derail the entire process.


The Cambodian Bar has demanded that foreign lawyers pay 4,900
dollars to participate in the tribunal. International judges
believe this would discourage foreign lawyers from taking part,
and thus deprive suspects of their right to defence.


The dispute has forced the delay of a key meeting that had been
set for April 30, and by extension caused another delay in the
start of the trials.


"All that is pathetic," Rithy Panh said. "The trials shouldn't be
delayed over a couple of thousand dollars."


"The Cambodians shouldn't always be blamed. This is a Cambodian
tribunal with an international component, so it's normal that the
Cambodian Bar should have its say," he added.


"The priority is to bring justice to the victims," and to
establish who was responsible for the atrocities, all in a way
that could serve as an example for future generations, he said.


Rithy Panh is something of an expert in confronting the horrors
of Cambodia's past.


His documentary "S21: The Khmer Rouge Death Machine" showed
survivors of the notorious Tuol Sleng torture camp -- which was
code-named S21 -- confronting their former captors.


His latest film, "Paper Cannot Wrap Up Embers," looks at the
plight of prostitutes in Cambodia and is playing in France and at
festivals around the world.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which ruled Cambodia from
1975-1979, when the regime abolished religion, property rights,
currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.


The tribunal opened in July after a decade of protracted
negotiations between Cambodia and the United Nations. Because of
the impasse within the tribunal, trials are not expected to begin
until the start of 2008 at the earliest.


Some activists and diplomats accuse the government -- which
includes former Khmer Rouge cadres -- of pressuring the Cambodian
judges and lawyers into deliberately slowing down the trials.


Several of the surviving Khmer Rouge leaders are already in their
80s, and activists fear they could die before standing trial.


But Rithy Panh said he did not believe Cambodia's government was
trying to slow down the trials, because they had staked their
international credibility on the tribunal.


"This is a tribunal that no one wants. Nonetheless, it must begin
its work. This is a national and an international
responsibility," he said.


"Reconciliation will follow, and it's up to the Cambodian
government to make it a national issue," he added.

