

Over 300 crane operators in southern China held a one-day strike
over low salaries, state media said Monday in a rare admission of
industrial action in the communist nation.


A crane driver at Shenzhen Yantian International Container
Terminals, a foreign- funded venture, asked for a pay rise on
behalf of his peers Friday but his request was not immediately
answered, the Xinhua news agency said.


Early Saturday, the incident escalated with a strike involving
more than 300 crane operators at the terminal breaking out, the
report said.


After mediation by local labour and transport authorities the
company agreed to give the workers an unspecified pay rise, and
the port resumed operations early Sunday morning, the report
said.


The director of the Hong Kong-based China Labour Bulletin rights
group, Han Dongfang, said the Xinhua article was unusual because
strikes were very rare in China and authorities rarely allowed
those that occurred to be publicised.


"I have never seen a report on strikes in the national official
media like Xinhua before," Han told AFP.


"The report could signal that authorities are willing to make
these problems public, rather than sweep them under the carpet as
they did with coal mine accidents until about eight years ago."


Domestic media used to be banned from reporting on coal mine
accidents and officials unanimously denied they occurred until
recent years, when the number of accidents and poll became too
large to cover, Han said.


Now China admits to thousands of workers dying in its coal mines
each year.


China's Communist Party rulers allow workers to join only one
union, which is under their control, the All China Confederation
of Trade Unions.


The nation's trade union law outlaws workers from forming
independent unions or organising collective bargaining activities
outside the ACFTU.


The ACFTU insists it adequately protects the rights of workers,
and hence the low number of strikes. However international labour
rights groups say exploitation of workers is rife in China and
the union does little to stop it.


In the Shenzhen case, the crane operators said that even though
their company was prospering, their salaries had not grown and
some had seen their monthly pay rise just 100 yuan (13 dollars)
from a decade ago, according to Xinhua.


Shenzhen Yantian International Container Terminals is a joint
venture between Hong Kong's Hutchison Port Holdings and state-
owned Shenzhen Yantian Port Group.

