

The female British sailor captured and held by Iran told the Sun
newspaper in an interview to appear Monday that her captors
stripped her, lied to her and suggested she might never see her
baby again.


Hours after the defence ministry relaxed its ban on service
personnel striking financial deals with media organisations,
mother-of-one Faye Turney, 26, told the tabloid her interrogators
taunted her with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she told the paper.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


For the first five days of the 13-day detention, Leading Seaman
Turney was also made to believe that the other 14 detainees --
all men -- had gone home, and she was the only one left.


"I was thrown into a tiny little cell and ordered to strip off,"
Turney told the newspaper.


"They took everything from me apart from my knickers. Then some
cotton pyjamas were thrown in for me to wear and four filthy
blankets. The metal door slammed shut again."


She was among eight sailors and seven marines held by Iran after
it claimed they trespassed into Iranian territorial waters on
March 23 -- Britain insists the group were conducting routine
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


On Wednesday, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced
that the group would be released, and they arrived back in
Britain on Thursday.


Newspaper reports on Sunday suggested the 15 captured sailors and
marines could make up to 250,000 pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000
dollars) between them, with Turney standing to net 150,000
pounds.


The Sun acknowledged that it had paid her for the interview,
without specifying how much, and noted that she had decided to
donate a share of her fee to the charitable fund for her ship,
the HMS Cornwall.


Along with some of her other crew members, Turney has come in for
criticism for accepting payment for interviews with the press.


Turney at one point spoke of how she feared Iranian officials
were "making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing
and nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into
my cell to measure me up from head to toe with a tape."


Soon after they were captured in the Gulf by Iranian troops armed
with AK-47s and a rocket propelled grenade launcher, Turney also
mouthed to the group's leader, Captain Chris Air: "Are they going
to rape me?"


Turney told the paper how at night she was taken to an
interrogation room for sometimes multiple questioning sessions,
one of which concluded at 6 am.


"They asked which were my ship's ports of call, where were other
coalition ships in the Gulf, how do Royal Navy ships protect
themselves, how do we communicate, what was the US doing?"


"That could have put my colleagues at risk, and there was no way
in hell I was ever going to do that, no matter what they did."


Several members of the group were regularly paraded on
television, apparently confessing for trespassing, and three
letters -- attributed to Turney -- were released by Iran in which
she apologised for the group's actions, and questioned Britain's
military presence in Iraq.


Turney said that she had purposely written the letters "in such a
way that my unit and my family would know it wasn't the real me"
after two new interrogators offered to free her "within two
weeks" if she confessed.


She told The Sun that her interrogators threatened she would be
put on trial for espionage if she did not accept their offer.

