

Polling opened Monday morning in an election to replace the
former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao as president of troubled
East Timor.


"The vote is now open," said Carlos Barbosa, head of a polling
station, in Meti Aut, a district of the capital, Dili.


Polls opened at 7:00 am (2200 GMT Sunday) and were to close at
4:00 pm.


Voting was taking place under tight security and amid concerns
over whether the result will be credible in a contest seen as a
three-way fight.


At Meti Aut there was no tension as about 30 people lined up to
cast their ballots under a bright early-morning sky at the simple
polling station with a desk and yellow plastic tape that marked
the area for people to wait.


"I am happy to vote for our future. It's an important moment,"
said Francisca Freitas, 38.


About a dozen United Nations police officers from New Zealand,
Nepal and Portugal stood by.


"I am very happy to give support to our nation which is already
broken," said another voter, Armindo Moreira.


Current prime minister and Nobel peace laureate Jose Ramos-Horta,
57, is up against the Fretilin party's chairman Francisco
Guterres, 52, a former guerrilla popularly known as Lu-Olo, for
the role of president.


Fretilin, which led the country's independence struggle against
Indonesian occupation, holds a majority in parliament.


A third candidate, Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, the chairman of
the opposition Democratic Party, also stands a chance of winning,
said Damien Kingsbury of Australia's Deakin University.


Five other candidates are seeking the five-year term as president
after Gusmao declared he would not seek re-election.


Instead, he said he would join a new political party and seek to
become prime minister, prompting Fretilin to allege he is trying
to "facilitate a job swap" with his close associate Ramos-Horta.


Prime minister is a much more powerful post than the largely
ceremonial position of president.


Gusmao led the guerrilla resistance against Indonesia, which
occupied the former Portuguese colony for 24 years until a United
Nations-supervised vote which led to a bloody separation from
Indonesia in 1999.


More than 522,000 people are registered to vote at more than 700
polling stations secured by more than 4,000 international and
East Timorese police.


The police are backed up by about 1,000 troops from an
Australian-led international peacekeeping force dispatched to
quell deadly unrest last year.


Helicopters, porters and horses were used to deliver ballots to
remote areas in the mountainous nation, whose infrastructure is
poor.


Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Sunday it was
unlikely a single presidential candidate would win an outright
majority.


If no candidate wins more than 50 percent, the runoff will be
held on May 9.


Results should be available later this week.

