

In theory, Valencia's Mestalla stadium has a level playing field
but history suggests that Jose Mourinho's Chelsea side may find
there are a few mountains to climb there on Tuesday.


The two sides meet in a Champions League quarter-final second leg
and the Spanish side, back-to-back finallists in 2000 and 2001,
have a distinct advantage after the 1-1 draw in the first leg at
Stamford Bridge.


Valencia haven't lost at home to an English club since Leeds
United won in 1967 and since then only Liverpool in the 1998 UEFA
Cup have managed a result, a 2-2 draw, that would see Chelsea
through to the semi-finals for the third time in four years.


Chelsea have also won only once in their last 10 visits to Spain
when contesting a European competition.


Nevertheless, Mourinho's men are confident that they can not only
beat Valencia but also go on to fulfill owner Ramon Abramovich's
dream and finally lift the Champions League trophy in Athens next
month.


"When you are down, when you are not playing as well as you can
but you still win, that is what makes you a champion," said
Chelsea defender Ashley Cole.


"That is why you are in football, to go to these sorts of places
and get a result. We did it at Barcelona and I don't see why we
cannot go there and get two goals.


"We have the type of players we will need in a testing time, like
(Chelsea captain) John Terry. He would put his head through a
wall for you. No one needs to motivate us," added the England
international.


Chelsea's recent domestic form, two hard fought 1-0 wins, has
hardly been convincing despite the London side lying second in
the Premiership and only three points behind league leaders
Manchester United.


However, Valencia's players are under no illusions that Chelsea
will raise their game after just coming up short in their bid to
lift the continent's top club prize in recent seasons.


"I expect a battle here because being knocked out will be an
enormous blow to Chelsea. The intensity of the game will be much
higher than the first leg," said Valencia defender Miguel.


The Portuguese international is widely reported in England and
Spain to be a target of Chelsea.


Next season he might be sharing a dressing room with The Blues'
strikers Andriy Shevchenko and Didier Drogba but on Tuesday his
main task will be to stop the dynamic duo from scoring.


"Chelsea are an outstanding team but they aren't invincible. We
have one or two options open to us and I'm sure we'll make the
last four.


"We showed at Stamford Bridge and in the previous round against
Inter Milan that we can become the European champions," added
Miguel.


Valencia know that if they can beat Chelsea then another English
club Liverpool probably await the winner in the semi-finals after
the five-times European champions' emphatic 3-0 win at PSV
Eindhoven last week.


"Mourinho is an excellent coach and I believe he will be
preparing a surprise so we must not under-estimate them. However,
I feel we have more power," added Valencia winger Joaquin
Sanchez.


Valencia's confidence, sky-high after their Stamford Bridge
result thanks to a spectacular goal from David Silva, took a
knock when they went down 1-0 at struggling Athletic Bilbao on
Saturday.


Despite coach Quique Flores resting seven first-choice starters,
including goalkeeper Santiago Canizares, it was far from ideal
preparation to face Chelsea.


Flores will also still be without two men who have contributed
much to them getting into the last eight, midfield playmaker
Vicente Rodriguez and striker Fernando Morientes, owing to recent
injuries


Valencia's central defenders Carlos Marchena and David Navarro
are also suspended after their infamous punch up with Inter
players.


In the wake of last week's clashes between English football fans
and police, in Rome and Seville, the football's continental
governing body UEFA have advised Valencia to take care in
segregating the home and away supporters.


UEFA is also expected to keep a close eye on any racist abuse by
Valencia supporters directed against Chelsea's black players like
Cole and Drogba, after other shameful incidents in the Mestalla
in recent years.

