

Guide to the two remaining venues being used for the World Cup
Super Eights:


QUEEN'S PARK STADIUM (St. George's, Grenada)


Status: Refurbished


Investment: 40 million dollars


Capacity: 17,000 of which 13,000 will be permanent


Originally constructed in 1998, the Queen's Park Stadium was
destroyed six years later by the ravages of Hurricane Ivan.


The stadium, located on the National Stadium complex, has been
rebuilt with the assistance of the Chinese government and boasts
VIP suites and boxes, improved player facilities, an electronic
scoreboard, and a state-of-the-art public address system.


The old Queen's Park had hosted a One-day International in 1983,
but the refurbished ground became the 84th Test venue when West
Indies played New Zealand there five years ago, and also hosted
eight ODIs before its devastation.


Located on the outskirts of the capital of the Spice Isle, it
will host six Super Eight matches.


Tale of the Track: Expected to be easy-paced with predictable
bounce


KENSINGTON OVAL (Bridgetown, Barbados)


Status: Reconstruction


Investment: 67.5 million dollars


Capacity: 30,000 of which 15,000 will be permanent


Affectionately described as "the Mecca of Caribbean cricket",
Kensington Oval is steeped in history, and it was the venue for
the first Test in the Caribbean.


The ground will host six Super Eight matches and the final on
April 28.


Only two buildings - the Mitchie Hewitt Stand and the Wes Hall
& Charlie Griffith Stand - remain from the old facility, and
they have both been enhanced with improved seating and
sightlines.


A statue of Sir Garfield Sobers now forms the focal point of the
exterior, and the ground has been given a comprehensive facelift
to meet international standards, with upgrades undertaken to
provide additional seats, as well as improved player, media, and
sponsor facilities.


Tale of the Track: Unknown, since the pitches had to be shifted
20 metres north east to accommodate the expansion, but a few
warm-up matches between local club sides were held to test the
surface and it played true.

