

India's cricket board seems set on a collision course with star
players after it ordered a clampdown on personal endorsements.


The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) said that
players would have to trim lucrative endorsement deals to a
maximum of three as it reviewed the team's inglorious first-round
exit from the World Cup.


The announcement was among a slew of decisions apparently aimed
at cutting the players down to size.


Currently stars like Sachin Tendulkar and Mahendra Singh Dhoni
enjoy money- spinning deals with as many as 15 brands each.


The players will also be required to submit a copy of their
contracts to the board and sponsors have been asked not to sign
deals with more than two players.


While the players refrained from commenting -- they have also
been asked not to speak to the media -- the corporate world was
quick to slam the move after it was announced Saturday.


"It is a regressive step. Restriction on endorsements is the last
way to get performance out of a cricketer," said Shailendra
Singh, joint managing director of Percept Holdings, which deals
with Sourav Ganguly and Yuvraj Singh.


"If BCCI would like to link performance with the players, then
the sponsors can, in turn, link performance with the BCCI," he
told the Times of India.


An editorial in the same paper said it was apparent that the
board was wary of some players, especially the senior ones.


"Clearly, they feel some of them have become so powerful that
they are harming the team and its future.


"Make no mistake, almost every decision has been aimed at
breaking them down, at marginalising them. They have taken the
war to a flashpoint."


It said the players were not in a position to fight back now, but
would hit out once they start winning matches again.


"The board, then, will have no place to hide," it added.


Another editorial in the Hindustan Times said BCCI had absolved
itself of all responsibility and put all the blame on the
players.


"Their solution -- to please the lowest common denominator, the
fan -- is to cut off all avenues from which players make legal
money, even cut their match fees, but leave themselves free to do
what they want."


The BCCI has signed multi-million dollar deals for television
rights, a sponsorship contract and an agreement to hold India-
Pakistan ties outside the ICC's Future Tours Programme at off-
shore venues.


While the players could well be seething inside, outgoing coach
Greg Chappell is bound to feel vindicated by the board's plans.


The former Australian captain had long been dismissive of the
ways of the senior players whom he reportedly referred to as
"mafia."


In keeping with Chappell's policy of promoting youngsters, the
board said it would send a "young team" on the May 10-29 tour of
Bangladesh led by Rahul Dravid.

