

Taiwan's intelligence authorities will hold an exercise
simulating a surprise attack by rival China, it was reported
Monday as the defence ministry launched a probe into the leaking
of military data on such drills.


President Chen Shui-bian and other top government officials would
scramble to the national command in the capital city in the
maneuver, which would be staged by the National Security Bureau
within the next two days, the Chinese-language China Times
newspaper said.


The exercise was aimed to test the security authorities' existing
measures designed to protect top government officials should war
break out in the Taiwan Strait, the daily said, without providing
its source.


The scheduled drill, however, was shadowed by the defence
ministry's announcement on Monday that it had launched an
investigation into the alleged leaking of military data by an
army colonel who played a role in this year's biggest military
war game, codenamed "Han Kuang 23".


The colonel was found to take home a USB flash drive containing
data simulating an attack by the People's Liberation Army, the
ministry said in a statement.


The drive also contained the sensitive data regarding "Po Sheng"
(Broad Victory), the military programme launched by Taiwan in
2003 to enhance the communications, intelligence and surveillance
capabilities of its armed forces.


The flash drive was discovered to have contained a computer virus
Chinese hackers have used comprehensively to assault Taiwan's
military and government websites.


The ministry said it was "evaluating the damage" of the military
leak.


Liu Shuo-tsung, an official with the National Security Bureau,
told legislators "it had indeed inflicted some damage to national
security," but he was short of details.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since
independence-leaning President Chen Shui-bian was elected
president in 2000. He was narrowly re- elected in 2004.


China considers Taiwan a part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.

