

Voters in East Timor cast their ballots Monday in a presidential
election they hoped would pull them from a cycle of violence and
political tension that has paralysed efforts to rebuild one of
the world's poorest nations.


More than half the population of about one million was registered
to vote in the election to replace the charismatic former
guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao, amid tight security and concerns
over whether the result will be credible.


It is the first poll since the former Portuguese colony declared
independence in 2002 after a bloody separation three years
earlier from occupying Indonesian forces.


"I am very happy to give support to our nation which is already
broken," said Armindo Moreira, one of about 30 people lined up
and waiting to cast their ballots at a primary school in the Dili
district of Meti Aut when polls opened at 7:00 am (2200 GMT
Sunday).


Eight candidates are in the running to replace Gusmao, who is not
seeking re- election as ceremonial head of the tiny nation.


Current prime minister and Nobel peace laureate Jose Ramos-Horta,
57, is seen as a strong contender, but observers say the contest
is shaping up to be a three- way race.


Ramos-Horta is up against former guerrilla and Fretilin party
candidate Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, and an ex-Indonesian
political prisoner, Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, chairman of the
opposition Democratic Party.


The powerful Fretilin party, which led the independence struggle
against Indonesia, expressed confidence of victory.


"Yes. I am confident from the start," Lu-Olo, 53, told reporters
as he arrived to cast his ballot.


"I am ready," Lu-Olo said. "And I hope that after this election
we can restore peace and stability."


In the seaside capital Dili, there were no signs of tension as
people walked under a bright sky to cast their ballots.


Finn Reske-Nielsen, deputy head of the UN mission in East Timor,
said he hoped the election would bring an end to the country's
year-long crisis that began last May.


The unrest left 37 dead, forced more than 150,000 from their
homes, and exposed tensions between Gusmao and then Fretilin
prime minister Mari Alkatiri, who resigned in favour of Ramos-
Horta.


"In a democratic way you ask the people what they want and this
is the mechanism to resolve the crisis," Reske-Nielsen said.


Gusmao has said he would join a new political party and seek to
become prime minister, prompting Fretilin to allege he is trying
to "facilitate a job swap" with his close associate Ramos-Horta.


The position of prime minister is much more powerful than that of
president.


Lasama and three other candidates seen as less likely to win have
said they fear attempts have been made to manipulate the election
process and that violence could break out.


But Ramos-Horta said Monday he thought the process had been free
and fair, and Reske-Nielsen said things seemed fine.


"I visited a number of polling stations this morning and things
are going smoothly," Reske-Nielsen said.


Ramos-Horta said: "The people will win. Whatever the result is, I
believe democracy wins if everybody respects the results."


At least 32 people were injured in election-related clashes
Wednesday in and around Dili although most of the campaign was
peaceful, the United Nations said.


More than 700 polling stations were being secured by more than
4,000 international and East Timorese police, backed up by about
1,000 troops from an Australian-led international peacekeeping
force dispatched to quell last year's unrest.


Observers said the violence derailed attempts to rebuild the
country after massive destruction and at least 1,400 deaths in
Indonesian-sponsored violence surrounding a 1999 UN referendum,
in which East Timor voted overwhelmingly for separation.


Polls were to close at 4:00 pm (0700 GMT) and results were
expected later this week.

