

Japan's ruling coalition breathed a sigh of relief Monday after
its candidates won in local elections, but newspapers warned that
the races still showed wide voter disenchantment.


Candidates supported by embattled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's
Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) won nine of the 11 elections
Sunday for provincial governors that were head-to-head races with
the opposition.


Tokyo's LDP-backed Governor Shintaro Ishihara, who is famous for
bashing China and making other nationalist remarks, won a third
term by a landslide, topping his closest competitor by 21 points
in a 14-candidate race.


"We have to use (the election results) to boost ourselves," chief
government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a news conference.


"Following the results, we want to do our best to pass key
legislation by uniting the ruling coalition," Shiozaki said.


The elections came three months ahead of polls for the upper
house, the first nationwide parliamentary contest for Abe.


Abe, at 52 Japan's youngest post-World War II premier, is
battling approval ratings below 40 percent due in part to
questions about his authority after a series of scandals and
gaffes involving close aides.


"The ruling coalition will be relieved by watching its candidates
win," the best-selling Yomiuri Shimbun said in an editorial.


The main opposition Democratic Party "is not in good shape and it
will have to make an urgent review of the situation ahead of the
upper-house elections," it said.


But the Mainichi Shimbun noted that incumbent governors won in
all races they contested and that polls show voters are paying
less attention to party affiliation.


"The losers were the political parties," said a Mainichi
editorial.


The major parties "should face this result squarely and review
the results, as if they fail to regain people's interest they are
going to suffer serious defeats in the upper-house elections," it
said.


Ishihara, a novelist turned politician, refused the outright
endorsement of the LDP, which has ruled Japan almost continuously
since 1955.


Newspapers said voters awarded Ishihara for his success at
pushing through policies despite his controversial remarks.


"It can be said that he outdistanced his rivals by demonstrating
his brass and daring to speak against the central government,
along with his ability to get things done," the liberal Asahi
Shimbun said.


Ishihara has rammed through policies such as banning diesel
engines to improve air quality. His current pet project is
bringing the Summer Olympics to Tokyo in 2016.

