

Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned the Iraqi Kurds on
Monday that hostility towards Turkey could result in a "very
heavy cost" for them in the future.


His warning came in response to remarks by Massud Barzani, the
head of the autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq, who
reportedly threatened to interfere in Turkey's affairs if Ankara
continued to oppose Kurdish claims on the oil-rich city of
Kirkuk.


"A northern Iraq which neighbours Turkey is gravely wrong in the
way it is currently acting and this could result in a very heavy
cost for them afterwards," Erdogan told reporters.


Barzani has "overstepped the line", he said, adding: "I advise
them not to say words they cannot live up to and to know their
place because they could be later crushed under those words."


The Turkish media quoted Barzani as saying at the weekend that
Iraqi Kurds would meddle in Turkey's already restive,
predominantly-Kurdish southeast if Ankara continued to oppose
their ambitions to attach Kirkuk to their autonomous region in
northern Iraq.


Turkey says a referendum on Kirkuk's future status, scheduled to
be held by the year-end, should be postponed, arguing that
thousands of Kurds have been moved into the city to change its
demography.


Kirkuk is also home to Arabs and Turkmens, a Turkish-speaking
community backed by Ankara.


Barzani reportedly said that if Turkey "interferes in Kirkuk over
just a few thousand Turkmens, then we will take action regarding
the 30 million Kurds in Turkey."


Following the remarks, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul also
conveyed Turkey's annoyance to US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice in a telephone conversation at the weekend, a senior Turkish
diplomat told AFP.


Asked by reporters Monday what Turkey's response to Barzani would
be, Gul only said: "You will see."


"Barzani's words are extremely disturbing, unacceptable and are
considered as a provocation," the English-language Turkish Daily
News paper quoted Gul as telling Rice.


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad.


Kurdish independence, it fears, could fuel the two-decade Kurdish
separatist insurgency in adjoining southeast Turkey, which has
already resulted in more than 37,000 deaths.


Tensions are already high between the two sides over Turkish
accusations that Iraqi Kurds tolerate, and even support,
thousands of armed Turkish Kurd rebels who have found refuge in
the mountains of northern Iraq.


Ankara has threatened a cross-border operation into the region to
crack down on the rebel camps if Baghdad and Washington fail to
act against them.


Separately, the New Anatolian daily reported Monday that Iraqi
Kurdish objections to Istanbul were instrumental in Baghdad's
decision to favour the Egyptian city of Sharm el-Sheikh as the
venue of a high-level international meeting in early May to
discuss the turmoil in Iraq.

