

Some of Asia's top clubs will look to get their AFC Champions
League campaigns back on track on Wednesday, while the
competition's minnows can build on giant- killing displays.


Sydney FC, whose title ambitions took a knock when they let slip
a two-goal lead against Urawa Red Diamonds, will hope to bounce
back against Persik Kediri.


However the Australian debutants may not find it easy in Solo,
where the Indonesians humbled Shanghai Shenhua 1-0 last time
around and are riding high from a 5-0 domestic win.


Coach Branko Culina believes Sydney face an uphill battle with
fitness levels lacking since the end of the A-League season in
February.


"There's not a great deal we can actually do because it's not
fitness itself we need, it's match fitness and getting games,"
Culina said.


"There's a big disadvantage being in the situation we are in not
having opposition every week, which our (Champions League)
opponents do."


Shanghai, propping up Group E with zero points from two games,
must take something from a difficult trip to Japan where they
face J-League champions Urawa Reds.


In Group F, Bangkok University can keep the pressure on Kawasaki
Frontale and Chunnam Dragons with a home win against Indonesia's
Arema Malang.


The Students have already earned surprise draws against both the
top clubs, which meet in Gwangyang.


China's Shandong Luneng will expect to make it three out of three
in Group G when they host Vietnam's Dong Tam Long An, while
Adelaide United can replace Seongnam Chunma in second place by
beating the visiting Koreans.


Meanwhile 2003 winners Al Ain, bottom of Group D with just one
point, take on leaders Sepahan who are looking to maintain their
100 percent record.


Last year's runners-up, Al Karama of Syria, will hope to make up
for their loss to Group C leaders Neftchi when they take on Al
Najaf at home.


However the Iraqis proved they are no soft touch when they
blitzed Qatar's Al Sadd 4-1 last time around.


Al Wahda can maintain their grip on Group A with an away win
against Al Zawra'a, while Uzbek giants Pakhtakor defend their
Group B leadership from Saudi outfit Al Hilal.


Group B consists of just three teams after Esteghlal Tehran were
thrown out for failing to submit their player registration forms
on time.


The group matches wind up on May 23, when the competition pauses
for the Asian Cup in Southeast Asia.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the quarter-
finals in September.


The winners will take home 600,000 US dollars and earn a place in
the World Club Championships in December.

