

Turkey has complained to the United States over Iraqi Kurdish
leader Massud Barzani after he reportedly threatened to interfere
in Ankara's affairs if it continued to oppose Kurdish claims on
the oil-rich city of Kirkuk, officials said Monday.


Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul "conveyed our sensitivities" to US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in a telephone conversation
at the weekend, a senior diplomat told AFP.


"A leader like Barzani, or any reasonable person should avoid
statements that can open rifts between the two sides," the
diplomat said.


Asked by reporters Monday what Turkey's response to Barzani would
be, Gul only said: "You will see."


The Turkish media quoted Barzani, head of the autonomous Kurdish
region in northern Iraq, as saying that they would meddle in
Turkey's already restive, predominantly-Kurdish southeast if
Ankara continued to oppose Iraqi Kurdish ambitions to attach
Kirkuk to their region.


Turkey says a referendum on Kirkuk's future status, scheduled to
be held by the year-end, should be postponed, arguing that
thousands of Kurds have been moved into the city to change its
demography.


Kirkuk is also home to Arabs and Turkmens, a Turkish-speaking
community backed by Ankara.


Barzani reportedly said that if Turkey "interferes in Kirkuk over
just a few thousand Turkmens, then we will take action regarding
the 30 million Kurds in Turkey."


"Barzani's words are extremely disturbing, unacceptable and are
considered as a provocation," the English-language Turkish Daily
News paper quoted Gul as telling Rice.


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad.


Kurdish independence, it fears, could fuel the two-decade Kurdish
separatist insurgency in adjoining southeast Turkey, which has
already resulted in more than 37,000 deaths.


Tensions are already high between the two sides over Turkish
accusations that Iraqi Kurds tolerate, and even support,
thousands of armed Turkish Kurd rebels who have found refuge in
the mountains of northern Iraq.


Ankara has threatened a cross-border operation into the region to
crack down on the rebel camps if Baghdad and Washington fail to
act against them.


Separately, the New Anatolian daily reported Monday that Iraqi
Kurdish objections to Istanbul were instrumental in Baghdad's
decision to favour the Egyptian city of Sharm el-Sheikh as the
venue of a high-level international meeting in early May to
discuss the turmoil in Iraq.

