

A US citizen accused of trying to bomb the Vietnamese embassy in
Bangkok five years ago asked a Thai court Monday to drop the
charges against him, his lawyer said.


Vo Duc Van, who was born in Vietnam, is alleged to have been part
of a gang that planted two bombs outside the embassy in June 2001
in a protest against his homeland's communist rulers.


He was arrested after stepping off a plane in California five
years ago and had been in US custody until he was extradited to
Thailand in December.


Van, 47, faces up to life in prison in Thailand over charges of
attempted bombing and possession of illegal weapons.


He was initially charged in the United States in connection with
the alleged plot, but the charges were dismissed and the US
government launched extradition proceedings against him.


His lawyer argued Monday that Van should not be forced to stand
trial in Thailand over charges that were dismissed in the United
States.


"I have asked the court to consider whether a man should face
trial twice for same charge," attorney Worasit Piriyawiboon said.


Under a US-Thai crime treaty, Worasit said the charges in
Thailand would amount to double jeopardy.


Van said after leaving the court that his action was a symbolic
act.


"This is a symbolic act, I did it in a hope to improve human
rights issues in Vietnam," he told reporters.


The June 19, 2001, bomb attempt involved two packages, one left
outside the wall of the embassy and another which was tossed into
the compound.


The bombs were allegedly placed by an accomplice of Van's, and
were wired to a cell-phone detonator but failed to explode when
the device was triggered, a US court ruling noted.


Van has previously said that he defused the bombs when he
realised that the US embassy in Bangkok was nearby.


Three other people have been arrested in Thailand over the plot,
but two were later released over a lack of evidence. The third,
Phan Nguyen Thanh Hien Si, has been sentenced to more than eight
years in prison but is awaiting a Supreme Court appeal.


Last week the Thai appeals court refused a Vietnamese request to
extradite dissident Ly Tong, who hijacked a plane from Thailand
to drop anti-government pamphlets over Ho Chi Minh City six years
ago.


The court ruled the act was a political statement and not a
security violation. He had already served a prison sentence in
Thailand over the hijacking.

