

Even after fighting Brussels for 13 years, British-born Nancy
Abeiderrahmane is convinced she will one day penetrate "fortress
Europe" to sell her Mauritanian camel's cheese in the European
Union.


In the office of her dairy on the outskirts of the capital
Nouakchott, Abeiderrahmane shows off her different products:
packages of milk from cows, goats and camels, yogurts and, last
but not least, her specialty -- camel's milk cheese, which she
says is a world first launched in 1994.


While many of the products have found a good market in this
sparsely populated Muslim country in northwest Africa, the dairy,
called Tiviski or Spring, has a public relations headache at home
-- struggling to persuade the traditionally nomadic Mauritanians
that camel's milk cheese is edible.


"There are no cheese eaters in Mauritania and in the region,"
explained Abeiderrahmane, who has adopted not only Mauritanian
nationality but also the traditional Muslim veil worn by women
here.


"For Mauritanians cheese is simply milk gone sour. They think
it's revolting.


"Our product is rare, unique. We therefore want to send it to
people who can and will buy it. Our goal is Europe," added the
company chief, who is in her 50s and speaks Mauritania's official
languages French and Arabic fluently.


Abeiderrahmane opened her dairy business in 1989 in this largely
desert country that measures twice the size of former colonial
power France but counts only 3.1 million inhabitants. Until then,
Mauritania had been dependent on imported milk.


She soon started fishing for outlets for her camel's milk cheese,
which resembles the soft French round cheese camembert but tastes
more like goat's cheese.


Targetting the luxury market, she lined up potential clients at
upscale European department stores like Harrods in London and
Fauchon in Paris.


"Then I ran into Brussels, and hit up against the European
regulations," Abeiderrahmane lamented.


Camel's milk is not covered by European food safety rules and
Mauritania, where foot-and-mouth disease is rampant, does not
figure on a tightly controlled list of countries authorised to
export animal-based products to the now 27-member group.


But Abeiderrahmane, who holds a degree in nuclear physics and who
moved here in 1968 after meeting her husband in France in 1968,
is optimistic.


"We're continuing to work with Brussels. We hope that Mauritania
will set up a laboratory to test animal health," she said,
pointing out that the EU's decision not to admit animal products
from Mauritania was due to the lack of such a laboratory.


From the nutritional viewpoint, there is much to vaunt this
oddity. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization says
its vitamin C content is three times higher than that in cow's
milk, and that it is packed with vitamin B and bodybuilding iron.


The business has also provided a good source of income for
nomadic herdsmen, with nearly 1,000 cow, goat and camel breeders
delivering milk to the Tiviski dairy every morning and evening.


"I am very touched by the multiple effects that a small agro-food
unit can have. We distribute more than 700 million ouguiyas (2.1
million euros, 2.8 million dollars) each year in the bush
country," Abeiderrahmane said, saying the dairy pays 160 ouguiyas
(0.46 euros, 0.61 dollars) for a litre (quart) of camel's milk.


"To make a living by helping others to make their living is, from
a moral standpoint, simply wonderful," she said.

