

India's new interim cricket manager Ravi Shastri said on Monday
his major task was to ensure players recovered from the World Cup
disaster and enjoyed their game again.


"I make no promises. What my endeavour is to see a happy Indian
team playing cricket," Shastri told the CNN-IBN news channel from
Singapore where he is working as a TV expert during the
tournament.


"Watching India playing in the last three to four months just
gave me the impression that they were doing a 9-5 desk job with
huge weight and expectations on their shoulders.


"What I want to tell them is that this is sport and they should
go out there and enjoy it. And if you lose in that fashion then I
am ready to take it on the chin.


"So, no promises whatsoever. I just want India to play happy and
good cricket. And you guys watching should enjoy it too."


Shastri, a former Test star-turned-commentator will serve as the
team's manager for a tour of Bangladesh next month after
Australian coach Greg Chappell declined to renew his contract.


India, World Cup champions in 1983 and finalists in 2003, were
knocked out in the first round of the ongoing tournament in the
Caribbean after losing to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.


Shastri, 44, said his role was confined to the Bangladesh tour to
give India's cricket chiefs sufficient time to find Chappell's
successor for matches in England and Ireland in July.


"I love challenges," said Shastri. "So, when I was asked whether
you will put your hand up, I said yes. I never want to shy away
from a challenge...and if I can help, nothing like it."


Shastri said he agreed with Indian cricket officials that a young
team should be picked for the Bangladesh tour with an experienced
leader in Rahul Dravid in command.


"You have to look at youth in whatever you do, in whatever walk
of life at some stage," he said. "There is a shelf period for
everything and if you have got to experiment, then do it against
Bangladesh.


"I am not saying that Bangladesh is weak. They have thrashed
South Africa, they have laid India low in this World Cup, so you
can never take them lightly.


"(But) there's going to be a lot of cricket to be played by India
in the next 12 months, so if you want to give youngsters an
opportunity then do it early.


"When you are playing a Test match, you would like to be playing
with your strongest side. So, it's not that the seniors are out
of it totally but I would like to see youngsters given
opportunities and see what happens."


Shastri played down media speculation of a rift in the team
between the senior and junior players.


"I have read about it," he said. "When I reach Bangladesh I would
try my best to clear everything out if there is a problem. No big
deal."


Asked if was confident of the team's revival, Shastri said: "A
good team doesn't become a bad team in two weeks and a bad team
doesn't become an excellent one in two weeks. Be patient."


Shastri, a right-hand batsman and left-arm spinner, retired in
1992 after playing 80 Test matches in which he scored 3,830 runs
and claimed 151 wickets.


He also made 3,108 runs and took 129 wickets in 150 one-day
internationals.


Widely hailed as possessing a sharp cricketing mind, Shastri led
India in one Test match, securing victory over the West Indies on
an under prepared wicket in Chennai in 1988 where debutant
Narendra Hirwani grabbed 16 wickets.

