

Exiled former Pakistani prime minister Benzir Bhutto is not
considering lending her support to embattled President Prevez
Musharraf, the Emirati Khaleej Times newspaper reported on
Monday.


Bhutto assured her rival, former premier Nawaz Sharif, at a
recent meeting in the Gulf emirate that she was not holding any
such talks with the Pakistan government, the newspaper said,
quoting a top official from her party.


The report comes after Pakistani officials said Musharraf has
been in negotiations to win the support of Bhutto, now in exile
in Dubai and London, and her opposition Pakistan Peoples Party
(PPP).


As well as Bhutto, military ruler Musharraf also exiled Sharif,
her rival, successor and the only other major rallying figure for
Pakistani opposition.


Musharraf is currently facing multiple challenges to his eight-
year hold on power. The most serious is a crisis over his removal
of the country's chief justice. The removal has sparked a series
of protests backed by Bhutto's party along with other opposition
groups.


Pakistan's Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid and Ports and Shipping
Minister Babar Ghuri both said on private television channels
late Thursday that a deal with the PPP was in the making.


"Serious negotiations are underway between the two sides but it
is not necessary that these will succeed," Rashid told AFP on
Friday. He declined to elaborate when asked what the two sides
were demanding from each other.


But a senior PPP official told the Dubai-based newspaper that no
pact was being considered.


"There is no deal with the government," PPP vice chairman
Makhdoom Fahim told the paper. "This is a government ploy to
distract the attention of the burning issues in the country."


Musharraf is due to seek re-election as president by national and
provincial assemblies before holding general elections, the
second during his tenure, late this year or early in 2008.


He is under Western pressure to ensure free and fair elections
involving mainstream liberal parties, to counter radical groups
who gained influential positions in the last polls in 2002 polls
due to a political vacuum.

