

The female British sailor captured and held by Iran said in an
interview published Monday that her captors stripped her to her
panties, lied to her and threatened she might never see her baby
again.


Meanwhile, the youngest among the 15 Britons held captive by Iran
last month told another newspaper that he was blindfolded,
threatened, and left in solitary confinement for days.


After the defence ministry relaxed its ban on service personnel
striking financial deals with media organisations over the
weekend, mother-of-one Faye Turney, 26, told The Sun her
interrogators taunted her with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she told the tabloid.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


For the first five days of the 13-day detention, Leading Seaman
Turney was also made to believe that the other 14 detainees --
all men -- had gone home, and she was the only one left.


"I was thrown into a tiny little cell and ordered to strip off,"
Turney told the newspaper.


"They took everything from me apart from my knickers. Then some
cotton pyjamas were thrown in for me to wear and four filthy
blankets. The metal door slammed shut again."


Rival tabloid the Daily Mirror carried an interview with 20-year-
old Arthur Batchelor, where he said he was also stripped to his
underpants, left in solitary confinement for several days ordeal,
and an interrogator indicated that if he did not co-operate, he
would not see his family.


Following their capture on March 23, Batchelor said: "I was
frozen in terror and just stared into the darkness of my
blindfold. I could feel the emotion welling up inside me."


He added that he been berated for his youth and diminutive
appearance -- his captors called him "Mr Bean," after the
bumbling television character -- and one of his interrogators
"indicated I might never see my family again if I didn't go along
with what they told me to do."


"He told me, 'If you even survive this, what will you tell your
family?"


In her interview with The Sun, Turney spoke of how, soon after
they were captured in the Gulf by Iranian troops armed with AK-
47s and a rocket propelled grenade launcher, Turney mouthed to
the group's leader, Captain Chris Air: "Are they going to rape
me?"


She also said that at one point she feared Iranian workers were
"making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing and
nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into my
cell to measure me up from head to toe with a tape."


Turney and Batchelor were among eight sailors and seven marines
held by Iran after it claimed they trespassed into its
territorial waters -- Britain insists the group were conducting
routine anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


On Wednesday, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced
that the group would be released, and they arrived back in
Britain on Thursday.


Newspaper reports on Sunday suggested the 15 captured sailors and
marines could make up to 250,000 pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000
dollars) between them, with Turney standing to net between
100,000 pounds and 150,000 pounds, sparking criticism from family
members of British personnel and politicians.


The Sun acknowledged that it had paid her for the interview,
without specifying how much, and noted that she had decided to
donate a share of her fee to the charitable fund for her ship,
the HMS Cornwall. It was unclear if Batchelor had been paid for
his interview.


Turney also gave an interview to commercial broadcaster ITV,
which was set to air the video later on Monday.

