

Thailand on Monday vowed to continue blocking video-sharing
website YouTube until clips deemed offensive to the king are
removed, accusing the firm's parent company Google of double
standards.


Communications minister Sitthichai Pookaiyaudoom urged Google to
help the military-backed government by removing a mushrooming
number of videos mocking revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej.


"Those clips are very harsh to the feelings of Thai people and
our culture, and foreigners will never understand," Sitthichai
said during an interview with a Thai television channel on
Monday.


"Google has said they have no censorship policy, but earlier
agreed to censor its website in China when the same kind of
dispute occurred, because China is so powerful compared to
Thailand."


The Chinese version of the Google search engine, Google.cn, was
launched in January 2006 amid much controversy because the
company agreed to censor its service according to the wishes of
China's propaganda chiefs.


"We have no other choice but to try every effort until the clips
are removed," Sitthichai said. "We will negotiate with Google to
help us."


Thailand last week blocked access to YouTube after the site
refused to take down a clip showing defaced images of the king,
including pictures of the monarch next to images of feet -- seen
as deeply offensive in Thailand.


Although the original clip has been removed by the user who
created it, similar videos have started appearing.


On Monday morning, some 20 clips related to the controversy were
seen on the site. Most of them mocked the king and the Thai
government, but others featured YouTube users discussing free
speech, censorship and cultural sensitivities.


Sitthichai on Monday also defended his ministry's move over the
weekend to shut down the political page of Thailand's most
popular online chat room, Pantip.com, one of a growing number of
political websites now banned here.


Media rights watchdogs have expressed concern about an escalating
clampdown on free speech since a military coup here last
September.


Sitthichai said Pantip's political page was shut down because
some topics were considered a threat to national security, and
others were offensive to the king.


"Pantip will be shut down temporarily until the political
situation eases or the comments posted on the site improve,"
Sitthichai said.


"Those comments use destructive and severe words... If they want
to discuss politics, they should use reasonable words. Then we
won't have a problem with people who want to criticise the junta,
the government or support the former premier," he said.

