

Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's salary will increase
to two million US dollars a year as part of pay rises for civil
servants announced on Monday.


The rises have sparked public anger in the city-state amid a
widening income gap, and concerns that Lee and members of his
cabinet are already overpaid.


Teo Chee Hean, the minister in charge of the civil service, said
all of Singapore's civil service will receive pay raises, not
just its ministers.


Teo, who is also defence minister, told parliament that after the
increase, Lee will receive an annual salary of 3.1 million
Singapore dollars (2.05 million US).


He did not say how much Lee is currently paid, but news reports
have said that in 2000, the Singapore prime minister was drawing
an annual salary of 1.9 million Singapore dollars.


Lee, son of Singapore founding father Lee Kuan Yew, took over as
prime minister from Goh Chok Tong in 2004.


Lee's revised salary would be five times more than the 400,000 US
dollars paid to US President George W. Bush and more than eight
times that of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who receives
240,000 US dollars a year.


Abe, who presides over the world's second biggest economy, had
slashed his own salary by 30 percent and those of his ministers
by 10 percent after taking office in September.


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun is paid 217,000 US dollars a
year and Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has an annual salary of
167,371 US dollars.


"The prime minister's salary currently ranks 164 among (the
private sector's top) income earners. After the revision, the
prime minister's salary, at 3.1 million, will rank 102nd among
the private sector earners," Teo said.


The salaries of cabinet members will also be raised in two
stages, Teo said, but did not say if the premier's salary
adjustment will also be done in phases.


Under a benchmark pegged to top private sector salaries,
Singapore ministers are supposed to be paid 2.2 million Singapore
dollars a year. However, they are actually getting 1.2 million
dollars, or 55 percent less.


To close the gap, Teo said the ministers' salaries will be raised
to 1.6 million dollars a year by the end of this year and to 1.9
million by the end of 2008.


Teo repeated the government's philosophy of paying competitive
rates in order to "facilitate the recruitment and retention of
the quality of talent we need for the government and public
sector."


But the ministers' salary increases has sparked strident comments
from a normally reserved public.


In a country where political rallies are banned without a permit
and the media is closely linked with the government, many of the
comments were posted on the Internet.


"This is plain injustice," said one identified as Zac Neo, who
was among more than 850 people who signed an online petition
against the pay increase.


"I will agree with your pay hike only if you state very clearly
what you will achieve for my pay in 12 months' time," said
another petition signatory who did not give a name.


"Middle class income has stagnated and dropped. And you think you
performed well enough to get (a) pay hike? Why don't you just go
get yourselves hired elsewhere," said one who identified himself
as Fred.


Political analyst Seah Chiang Nee told AFP that the rises have
generated a "lot of anger".


"I think the feeling is that the cabinet ministers are already
overpaid compared to the rest of the world," he said.

