

Four years after US tanks rolled into Baghdad, only military
vehicles cruised the streets of the capital on Monday as the
authorities tried to prevent insurgents marking the anniversary
with deadly car-bomb attacks.


Thousands of supporters of Iraq's radical Shiite cleric Moqtada
al-Sadr were set to stage a massive rally to demand US soldiers
leave the country in the central city of Najaf.


Despite a massive US and Iraqi security operation launched eight
weeks ago in Baghdad to stem sectarian violence and insurgent
attacks, the daily bloodshed shows no let-up, with at least 23
people killed in attacks including car bombings on Sunday, the
eve of the anniversary.


The threat of car-bomb attacks, which have killed thousands in
the capital alone over the past year, prompted authorities to
impose a 24-hour vehicle ban in Baghdad beginning Monday morning
when the night curfew lifts.


"All vehicles including motorcycles will be banned from 5:00 am
(0100 GMT) on Monday to 5:00 am the next day," Iraqi Brigadier
General Qassim Atta Mussawi told state television on Sunday.


Mussawi is spokesman for the Baghdad security plan launched in
the capital on February 14 in an effort to quell sectarian
violence that threatens the entire region and has turned the US
victory four years ago into a poisoned chalice.


On April 9, 2003, US tanks rolled into Baghdad's central Firdos
Square and Marines pulled down a towering bronze statue of Saddam
Hussein by a rope around the neck, in a premonition of Saddam's
hanging in December.


Jubilant Baghdadis who welcomed US tanks on that fateful day now
blame the dire situation on what even some of the country's most
senior leaders brand an unwanted US-led "occupation."


Gone are the euphoric April 9 cheers of "Good, Good, Bush"
praising US President George W. Bush for ousting the regime.
Angry chants of "Down with Bush" are a frequent background to
brutal Shiite and Sunni sectarian strife.


A cleric speaking on behalf of radical Shiite leader Moqtada al-
Sadr, whose Mahdi Army is what the Pentagon calls the biggest
danger to Iraq, has urged mass anti-American protests on Monday's
anniversary.


"It will be an Iraqi demonstration in the name of all Iraqis. We
will raise the Iraqi flag and also banners demanding that the
occupation leave," a Sadr representative in his Najaf office told
AFP on condition of anonymity.


Police said thousands of his supporters had already gathered in
the area on Sunday.


The Baghdad vehicle ban follows a car-bomb attack on Sunday near
a residential building in an industrial zone in Mahmudiyah south
of Baghdad that killed 17 people, according to a local official.


The attack coincided with a US military announcement that another
four American soldiers had died in a roadside bomb explosion in
Diyala province, where insurgents have become increasingly active
in recent months.


That bombing raised to 21 the number of US troops killed this
month alone and to 3,269 the death toll since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


Another six Iraqis were killed in Baghdad on Sunday, five of them
by a car bomb in Al-Alam, a mixed Shiite-Sunni district rife with
sectarian conflict.


Insurgents continue to stage attacks, mainly bombings, despite
the massive US and Iraqi security operation.


But US and Iraqi military officials insist that execution-style
killings have fallen since the February crackdown began.


A US military spokesman said Sunday that such killings were down
26 percent compared with February.


General Mussawi also insisted that fewer bodies of unidentified
men were being found on Baghdad's streets.


"Such bodies do not exceed eight on a daily basis. And that is
not a large number," he said.


Before the crackdown began, dozens of corpses of handcuffed and
blindfolded men riddled with bullets were found daily.

