

Sir Alex Ferguson faces the prospect of watching his treble dream
crumble under the strain of Manchester United's crippling injury
crisis.


United have slumped to successive defeats for the first time this
season and Roma will arrive at Old Trafford on Tuesday for the
second leg of their Champions League quarter-final confident they
can add to Ferguson's misery by holding on to their 2-1
advantage.


With the prize of a semi-final meeting with AC Milan or Bayern
Munich at stake, United have been hit by injuries to key
defenders at the worst possible time.


The absence of Nemanja Vidic, Gary Neville and Mikael Silvestre
has left the Premiership leaders exposed at the back and the
cracks are beginning to show.


United have been coming under more pressure than usual as their
under-strength defence struggles to control the opposition and
Dutch goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar has looked increasingly
fallible.


He was at fault for three of the four goals his side conceded in
the losses against Roma and Portsmouth. And as if the injuries
weren't enough cause for concern, United will also be without
suspended midfielder Paul Scholes on Tuesday.


Ole Gunnar Solskjaer acknowledges United have left themselves a
tricky task against Roma. But the Norwegian striker, who scored
the goal that won the Champions League against Bayern Munich in
1999, refuses to accept his side are now underdogs.


"Losing is never a good result," Solskjaer said, "but we have to
win 1-0 at Old Trafford to get into the Champions League semi-
finals. We would have taken that six months ago.


"The best advantage is that we've scored an away goal. We have
given ourselves a big chance.


"But they are a very good footballing side with fantastic
individuals, so we know it's going to be hard."


The finely-poised nature of the tie was guaranteed to make
Tuesday evening a tense occasion, but feelings in Manchester will
be running higher than ever after the horrifying scenes of crowd
disorder that scarred the first leg.


Several United fans needed hospital treatment after being stabbed
before the match and the evening got even uglier when Italian
police baton-charged the visiting supporters during the first
half.


With so much at stake it is safe to say that Slovakian referee
Lubos Michel will need to show the diplomatic skills of a UN
peacekeeper if a potentially explosive clash is to pass off
without incident on the field.


Roma will certainly draw optimism from United's poor record of
finishing off European ties at Old Trafford.


Four times in the last 10 years, they have failed to advance in
the Champions League when a second leg win at Old Trafford was
required. Borussia Dortmund, Monaco, Real Madrid and Porto have
all been able to get what they needed to eliminate United at the
Theatre of Dreams.


Luciano Spalletti's side maintained the momentum from their win
over United in the Eternal City with a 2-0 success against
Catania on Sunday. One of the goal- scoring heroes of the first
leg victory, Mirko Vucinic, was on the scoresheet again at the
weekend, with Francesco Tavano notching the other.


Roma captain Francesco Totti was rested for the Catania match as
he struggles to shake off a sciatica problem in his lower back,
but the talismanic striker is certain to start on Tuesday.


Totti wasn't the only Roma star wrapped in cotton wool, with
Cristian Chivu, Daniele De Rossi, Christian Panucci and Mancini
all on the bench.


Spalletti's decision made sense since the Serie A title is
already beyond them. He will hope it pays dividends against a
United side showing signs of cracking physically and mentally
under the pressure of Chelsea's relentless pursuit in the
Premiership.

