

East Timor's Fretilin party, which led the independence struggle
against Indonesia, expressed confidence of victory in the
troubled nation's presidential election Monday.


"Yes. I am confident from the start," Fretilin's candidate,
Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, 53, told reporters as he arrived at
a primary school in the capital Dili to cast his ballot.


Lu-Olo is the Fretilin party president and is also speaker of the
country's parliament, in which Fretilin holds a majority.


"I am certain that he will score a big victory," said former
prime minister Mari Alkatiri, who voted at the same time as Lu-
Olo.


Alkatari resigned last year in favour of Jose Ramos-Horta after
at least 37 people died in unrest that forced more than 150,000
to flee their homes and led to the deployment of an Australian-
led international security force.


The violence exposed tensions between Alkatiri and outgoing
President Xanana Gusmao, a close associate of Ramos-Horta, who is
now vying to take Gusmao's place.


"I am ready," Lu-Olo said. "And I hope that after this election
we can restore peace and stability."


Fretilin says Lu-Olo "spent the entire 24-year Indonesian
occupation of his country as a resistance fighter and
independence activist based in the mountains."


He took on an increasing number of roles within the resistance
and, by the time Indonesian forces withdrew in 1999, had become
the most senior Fretilin leader inside the country, the party
said.


Fretilin retains a solid base of support but has also been
criticised for a lack of political openness and the use of
intimidation.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, 44, leader of the largest opposition
bloc, the Democratic Party, is also seen as a contender in what
appears to be a three-way race with Lu-Olo and Ramos-Horta.


Gusmao is not seeking re-election but a total of eight people are
running in the first presidential election since the former
Portuguese colony, formally known as Timor-Leste, gained
independence in 2002.


Indonesia invaded and occupied the country before a bloody and
destructive pullout in 1999 after a UN-sponsored referendum in
which East Timor voted for separation.

