

The only woman among the 15 British sailors seized by Iran said
Monday she was forced to strip by her captors, feared rape and
execution and felt like a "traitor" when she signed "confession"
letters.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney and the youngest member of the eight
sailors and seven marines freed last week told the British media
of their ordeal after being given special permission to sell
their stories.


But in a new round of the propaganda battle over the captives,
Iranian television broadcast new footage of the Britons playing
table-tennis and watching an English Premiership football game
which it insisted showed they were well treated.


Turney, 26, told The Sun newspaper that her interrogators taunted
her with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she said.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


For the first five days, Turney was made to believe that the 14
men had already been released, and she was alone.


"I was thrown into a tiny little cell and ordered to strip off,"
Turney told the tabloid.


"They took everything from me apart from my knickers. Then some
cotton pyjamas were thrown in for me to wear and four filthy
blankets. The metal door slammed shut again."


Turney said that soon after they were captured in the northern
Gulf by well- armed Iranian forces, she mouthed to one of the
group's officers, Royal Marines Captain Chris Air: "Are they
going to rape me?


"They kept staring at me and repeating 'woman, woman'."


She also said that at one point she feared her captors were
"making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing and
nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into my
cell to measure me up from head to toe with a tape."


Iranian television showed letters written by Turney which
apologised for entering Iranian waters and also called for
British troops to leave Iraq. She said she was forced to write
the documents.


"When they wanted me to write what was written about the British
and American troops I felt like a traitor to my own country," she
said in an interview with ITV television.


"I had no choice. If I didn't comply I was looking at being
charged with being a spy."


The youngest captive, Able Seaman Arthur Batchelor, 20, said he
was also stripped to his underpants, left in solitary confinement
for several days, and an interrogator indicated that he also
might not see his family again.


Following their capture on March 23, Batchelor said: "I was
frozen in terror and just stared into the darkness of my
blindfold. I could feel the emotion welling up inside me."


He added that he been berated for his youth and diminutive
appearance. His captors called him "Mr Bean" after the bumbling
television character.


Iran has insisted that the naval personnel were tresspassing in
Iranian waters. Britain insists the group were conducting routine
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters under a United Nations
mandate.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds (371,000 euros/496,000 dollars) between then, with Turney
standing to net around 100,000 pounds.


Critics have blasted the Ministry of Defence for relaxing its ban
on service personnel striking financial deals with media
organisations.


But Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, another of the captured
officers, defended the pair over their stories.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this.


"In the case of Faye Turney, she has a young daughter and the
money could set her up for life," he told GMTV television.


Iranian television broadcast fresh footage Monday of the group
playing games, watching football on television and eating kebabs
and soup.


"These pictures show the relaxation and freedom they enjoyed
during their detention period. This contradicts what they said
when they arrived home in Britain," said a newsreader.


"Tehran opened its arms and offered hospitality to the 15 British
sailors."


John Bolton, the US ambassador to the United Nations in
2005-2006, wrote in the Financial Times newspaper that
Ahmadinejad had scored a triumph.


He said Britain had been too soft on Iran. "The only thing risen
from this crisis is Iranian determination and resolve to confront
us elsewhere, at their discretion, whether on Iraq, nuclear
weapons or terrorism," he wrote.

