

The US point man on North Korea said Monday he was hopeful there
would be progress within days as the clock ticks for Pyongyang to
meet a deadline in a breakthrough aid-for-disarmament deal.


Envoy Christopher Hill started a three-nation regional tour amid
intense US diplomacy ahead of Saturday's deadline, which Japan
and China have both publicly doubted can be met.


North Korea pledged in a six-nation deal in February to shut down
the key Yongbyon nuclear facility and allow the return of UN
nuclear inspectors by April 14 in return for badly needed fuel
aid.


But the communist state has refused to move until it receives 25
million dollars of its money which was unfrozen from a Macau bank
but has taken time to work its way to Pyongyang.


"I'm hopeful that we can make progress in the next couple of days
such that we can get going on denuclearisation, especially on the
Yongbyon facilities and getting inspectors in," Hill told
reporters at Narita airport near Tokyo.


"We've had some ideas on how we can move forward, so we have some
ideas on how we can do this, but it has proven to be a very
difficult task," he said.


"It's always been the understanding that North Korea would
fulfill its obligations according to the 60-day agreement reached
in February."


An official from China, North Korea's main ally, played down the
significance of the deadline.


"I don't think there is any change in the overall framework or
direction. The six parties have all agreed on the first steps,"
Chinese Ambassador to Japan Wang Yi told reporters after a
meeting with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


"We are running out of time due to technical reasons over the
financial issue. I think the US and North Korea are making
efforts to seek a resolution to this matter," Wang said.


US President George W. Bush's administration has promoted the
North Korea deal as a foreign policy success at a time of growing
public dissatisfaction over Iraq.


As Hill started his visit to Tokyo, Seoul and Beijing, a bi-
partisan team headed by former UN ambassador Bill Richardson was
holding talks in Pyongyang, officially to recover the remains of
US soldiers killed in the Korean War.


Hill said the US was looking into how to transfer the North
Korean funds, but that the fundamental problem remained the
nuclear drive of North Korea, which tested an atom bomb last
October.


"The problem has been that because North Korea has been engaged
in weapons programmes and engaged in financing these programmes
that we have this problem of moving finances through the
international financial system," Hill said.


"Frankly, I think the North Koreans would find the international
financial system a lot more hospitable if they were not making
weapons of mass destruction," he said.


The six-way talks group China, Japan, the two Koreas, Russia and
the United States.

