

Southeast Asia will benefit if Singapore bids successfully to
join the prestigious Formula One auto racing calendar, the city-
state's foreign minister said in remarks published Monday.


Foreign Minister George Yeo said a successful Singapore bid will
complement the Formula One race held in neighbouring Malaysia and
will help develop the market for the sport in the region.


Singapore is keen to host a Formula One race and the government
has already given its blessings pending ongoing negotiations
between local business tycoon Ong Beng Seng and F1 supremo Bernie
Ecclestone.


Ong is bidding for the right to host an F1 race in Singapore
which would be a city circuit, unlike Malaysia's purpose built
Sepang race track.


"If it comes to Singapore, it will be a complementary
relationship with the F1 in Sepang," Yeo as quoted as saying in
the Straits Times.


"Ours would be a city circuit, and I believe because we are
spaced apart, the two races should be able to energise each other
and help develop the F1 market in Southeast Asia."


Malaysia's Sports Minister Azalina Othman told reporters last
week there should only be one F1 race in Southeast Asia but
denied the country was jittery over Singapore's bid to host it.


"(The) region should have one F1 race. Singapore should not
compete with Malaysia," Azalina said.


"I am not worried. I have no concern with Singapore hosting the
F1 race," she added.


Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew said two years ago that
he regretted not having built a Formula One race track to
generate more money for the local economy.


Yeo, who was speaking after attending the F1 Sepang race on
Sunday, said negotiations between Ong and Ecclestone were still
ongoing and that an outcome was expected soon.


"Whether or not there would be a deal, we do not know. I suppose
we will know shortly," Yeo said.


"I think the government has given approval for the project to go
ahead based on certain conditions. So the negotiations are going
on between Ong Beng Seng and Bernie Ecclestone."

