

The British defence ministry and the 15 sailors held by Iran for
nearly two weeks last month faced criticism on Monday after
several of the naval personnel decided to sell their stories.


The Ministry of Defence made the unusual decision Sunday to relax
its ban on service personnel striking financial deals with media
organisations, saying there were "exceptional circumstances."


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between then, with the
sole woman among them standing to net around 100,000 pounds.


Mother-of-one Faye Turney, 26, was paid for her interview in
Monday's issue of The Sun tabloid, and an interview with
commercial broadcaster ITV was set to be aired later in the day,
though the amounts she received were not specified.


Amid mounting criticism, the defence ministry said in a
statement: "It was clear that the stories they had to tell were
likely to have emerged via family and friends regardless of any
decision the (Royal) Navy took."


In her interview with The Sun, Leading Seaman Turney, who became
the public face of the crisis, spoke of how her captors stripped
her to her underwear, lied to her and suggested she might never
see her three-year-old daughter again.


She was among eight sailors and seven marines captured after Iran
said they trespassed into Iranian territorial waters on March 23
-- Britain insists the group were conducting routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


On Wednesday, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced
that the group would be released, and they arrived back in
Britain on Thursday.


Arthur Batchelor, 20, the youngest of the group, told the Daily
Mirror of how he was similarly stripped, and an interrogator
indicated that if he did not co- operate, he would not see his
family. It was unclear if he was paid for his interview.


Sally Veck, whose daughter Eleanor Dlugosz, 19, was among four
Britons killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq last week, told The
Times that "it would be a terrible shame if any of them (the
freed captives) decided to actually go ahead and sell their
stories.


"If you are a member of the military, it is your duty to serve
your country. You should do your duty and not expect to make
money by selling stories," she said.


Two of the captured sailors, Lieutenant Felix Carman and Captain
Chris Air have publicly said they will not sell their stories.


The main opposition Conservatives expressed concerns about the
"undignified" deals while the smaller Liberal Democrats said they
were concerned about inadvertent leaks of sensitive information.


The Independent newspaper in its editorial on Monday lamented "a
system which pays next to nothing in compensation when someone is
killed in the line of duty, but allows released captives to earn
many times their annual salary from their experience."


The Daily Telegraph said in its editorial that "giving permission
for this media circus falls way below the standards we should
expect from the Ministry of Defence."


"Relations of members of the armed services killed in Iraq, who
would not dream of selling their stories, feel particularly
strongly on this subject. And who can blame them?"


Retired British colonel Bob Stewart, who commanded United Nations
troops in Bosnia, said he understood the ministry's thinking but
it made him "a bit sick."


Families of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan had not
struck similar deals, he noted in an interview with the BBC.

