

Tiger Woods may look back on the 2007 Masters as the one the got
away, but it was not on Sunday that the damage was done, he
insists.


Instead, Woods was left bemoaning the bogey-bogey finishes he
endured in the first and third rounds on Thursday and Saturday,
without which he felt he could have won.


Without those, he would have been comfortably in the lead and
with the security blanket he enjoys. All 12 of his wins in the
majors have come when he has been leading or tied for the lead.


Instead, he trailed Stuart Appleby by one stroke and although he
overhauled the Australian, he was upstaged by Zach Johnson, a
compatriot born within two months of him whose only claim to fame
prior to winning at Augusta had been a win in the BellSouth
Classic three years ago.


"I was not disappointed with today," Woods said.


"I threw this tournament away on two days when I had two good
rounds going and I went bogey, bogey.


"So four bogeys in the last two holes basically cost me the
tournament."


Even so, Woods did take the overall lead on Sunday five holes
into his second round.


But he held it only for a few brief moments until South African
Rory Sabbatini rolled in a boomerang of a putt for an eagle at
the par-five eighth.


Clearly struggling with his game, Woods bogeyed the sixth and the
10th as Johnson moved up to top the leaderboard.


He was in trouble off the tee on the 11th, but hit a brave shot
from up against a tree that snapped the shaft of his five-iron in
two and almost left him with a nasty hand injury.


He skillfully saved par from there and the spring visibly came
back into his step when he eagled the 13th after a marvellous
second which nestled up near the back of the green an then
burrowed back down the slope to four feet.


But that was as far as he could get, parring the five remaining
holes when birdies were what was needed.


The biggest blow, he said, had come at the 15th, a par-5 that he
normally would have expected to birdie except for his tee-shot
landing right of the fairway with a tree in his line of sight to
the green.


"I had a chance there," he said. "I had to hit some kind of
miracle shot around that tree," he said.


"But I hit a crappy shot and ended up in the water and still
somehow was able to make five. I kept myself in the ball game."


Woods failed to birdie the 16th and 17th and was left needing to
hole out from around 125 yards at the last for an unlikely eagle
that would have caught Johnson, already in the clubhouse, and
forced a playoff.


He went for the hole but was too far right and hung his head as
his bid to win a third major in a row came to an end.


It also left him on 12 majors for his career, six shy of Jack
Nicklaus' best- ever mark and on four Masters wins, two less than
Nicklaus.


Next he will tee off in June in the US Open at Oakmont,
Pennsylvania, a course he has never played before, followed in
July by the British Open at Carnoustie where he tied for seventh
the last time it was played there in 1999.


That is, of course, unless the birth of his first child,
scheduled for early July, forces a change of plans.

