

Fears mounted Monday for the safety of two French aid workers
kidnapped by the Taliban militia in southern Afghanistan after
the insurgents beheaded an abducted Afghan journalist.


The Taliban said it executed Afghan reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi,
who was kidnapped last month with Italian journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, because the government failed to meet their demand
to free rebel prisoners.


La Repubblica correspondent Mastrogiacomo was freed after two
weeks in captivity in a controversial exchange for five Taliban
prisoners which was widely condemned. His Afghan driver was
beheaded before his release.


A senior government official speaking on condition of anonymity
said he believed the Taliban killed Naqshbandi to pressure
President Hamid Karzai into making another similar deal to free
the French nationals.


"If you remember when the Taliban killed Mastrogiacomo's driver
the government freed Taliban prisoners to save the Italian. I
believe they killed Naqshbandi to scare us into accepting their
demands again," he told AFP.


"But I don't think the government is in a position to comply with
more such demands. It just can't do it," he said.


The Taliban say they have been holding a French man and woman
along with three Afghans since abducting them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz last Tuesday. The guerrillas have not yet made
any demand for their release.


But a Taliban spokesman said Sunday that the Taliban leaders will
decide the fate of the French aid workers from Terre d'Enfance (A
World for Our Children) in "coming days" as they are now done
with Naqshbandi.


Afghan President Hamid Karzai had described the prisoner exchange
to free Mastrogiacomo as an "extraordinary" situation and said he
would not release any more Taliban prisoners to save the
Italian's Afghan colleague.


Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman Sultan Ahmad Baheen told AFP
the government will not make further deals with the Taliban,
although it was "worried for the French nationals".


"The government is determined to not make any further deals with
the terrorists. No more deals, with no one, for no one," Baheen
said.


Another Afghan official said the government was in a tight corner
over the French hostages, following widespread domestic criticism
of its failure to save a fellow Afghan while helping free the
Italian journalist.


"The government is obviously in a very difficult position -- if
the French ask for the same thing the Italians did, what would
the government say?" the official said, again asking not to be
named.


The execution of the Afghan journalist capped a bloody weekend in
Afghanistan in which seven NATO troops were killed in roadside
bomb blasts, including six Canadian troops who died in a single
explosion on Sunday.


The militant Islamic Taliban movement were ousted by US-led
forces in late 2001 after failing to hand over Al-Qaeda chief
Osama bin Laden in the wake of the September 11 attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.


They have since led a insurgency targeting the Afghan government,
international troops and aid workers, which was at its bloodiest
last year. This year more than 900 people have died in Taliban-
related violence.

