

Pakistani tribesmen flew victory flags and fired in the air
Monday after clearing another town of Al-Qaeda-linked foreign
militants following three weeks of fighting, officials said.


Tribesmen also found the bodies of eight foreigners killed in the
battle to take the town of Azam Warsak and surrounding areas,
which are in the mountainous South Waziristan region bordering
Afghanistan, the officials said.


More than 200 militants and 50 tribesmen have died since fierce
fighting broke out in South Waziristan on March 19, sparked by a
pro-government tribal leader's demand that the foreigners leave
or disarm.


"The lashkar (tribal army) have cleared Azam Warsak of militants
and hoisted white flags there and seized the body of eight Uzbek
militants who died in the fighting overnight," a local
administration official told AFP.


Residents said the fighters also beat traditional war drums that
they used last week to summon the 1,000-strong tribal force.
Tribesmen in the region use white flags to show that the area is
under tribal control, they added.


The fighters were now carrying out house-to-house searches for
militants and securing other areas, the local official said.


In a separate clash with militants, a tribal elder and a deputy
were killed late Sunday near Wana, the main town in South
Waziristan, he added.


Last week Pakistani soldiers entered nearby Sheen Warsak area
after tribal fighters seized it, the first troop movement in
South Waziristan since a peace agreement was signed with local
tribesmen in 2005.


The government says the tribesmen are trying to drive out Uzbek
and Chechen militants because the foreigners have ties to Al-
Qaeda and are involved in attacks on US and NATO forces in
Afghanistan.


It says their actions vindicate peace deals in several tribal
regions between the government and formerly Taliban-supporting
militants, which the US and other western allies have criticised.


Thousands of Arab and Central Asian militants were given shelter
by Pakistani tribesmen after fleeing Afghanistan when US-led
forces toppled the Taliban regime in late 2001, but the two sides
have now fallen out violently.

