

South Korea's Yang Yong-Eun said he hoped to compete full-time in
the United States after wrapping up a successful Masters debut
with his week's best of two- over-par 74 on Sunday.


Yang, famous for beating Tiger Woods in the HSBC Champions in
Shanghai in November, ended his campaign at Augusta National on
13-over-par 301 total, which placed him in a commendable 30th
place in the year's opening Major.


He struggled with an outward 39 with five bogeys against two
birdies before enjoying an inward 35 which saw him walk off the
18th green with a big smile on his face.


"It was a little cold on the front nine and I dropped some
bogeys. The pins were also very tough today but I said to myself
that on the back nine, I could get a few strokes back and I'm
glad I did," said Yang.


He also found great satisfaction with a birdie on 10, which he
dropped two double bogeys during a demanding week of golf. After
splitting the fairway, he nailed a seven iron to 10 feet and
converted the putt.


"It was a good experience this week. Playing with the top players
will give me the experience to compete with them. It'll be good
for my golf in the future and I will learn from this," said Yang,
who has two Asian Tour wins and five in Japan.


The 35-year-old will stay in America next week for a US PGA Tour
event but ultimately hopes to join compatriots K.J. Choi and
Charlie Wi, both Asian Tour products, on a full-time basis.


Yang also intends to return to the Masters next year and knows
that the best route is to stay inside the world's top-50 where he
is presently ranked 49th.


"My world ranking has slipped down a bit. I want to try and
recover my position and next week is an important week," he said.


"My goal will be to make the cut and get some world rankings
point. I also want to try to get into the Players Championship
and US Open as well but I need to retain my top-50 status," said
Yang.


"Augusta National suits my game. I'm used to bent grass and I'm
looking forward to coming back here in the future. Hopefully this
experience will give me what I need to play well over here," said
Yang.


Choi, who finished tied 27th at the Masters with a closing 76,
believes Yang has the game to succeed in America.


"He has a strong mind," said Choi, a four-time winner on the US
PGA Tour. "He chips and putts well but he needs to hit the ball
higher over here. This week, there was rough and there were not
many birdie chances.


"In other events, if you miss a shot, you don't have a chance to
hit the green," said Choi.


He is also willing to take Yang under his wing, very much like
how he has done so at this week's Masters by playing regular
practice rounds together.

