

Two of Southeast Asia's most wanted terror operatives evaded
capture Monday when US-trained Philippine troops raided the camp
of an Al-Qaeda-linked group on southern Jolo island.


Indonesian nationals Dulmatin and Umar Patek, alleged bombmakers
for the Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) terror group responsible for the
deadly 2002 Bali bombings, escaped during an early morning
firefight.


The US government has posted a reward of 10 million dollars for
the capture of Dulmatin and one million dollars for Patek.


But the two men, who have been hiding out on Jolo with the Al-
Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf, have managed to evade a massive military
operation involving more than 8,000 troops along with US advisers
and intelligence officers.


On Monday, a Philippine army unit trained by the US military
raided an Abu Sayyaf camp early Monday, local army commander
Brigadier General Ruperto Pabustan said.


"Three Abu Sayyaf members were captured after a brief firefight,"
Pabustan said, but added the "high value targets -- Dulmatin and
Patek -- escaped."


"Pursuit operations are continuing," he said.


On Sunday, nine soldiers and civilians were killed when Abu
Sayyaf militants attacked an army base on Jolo.


More than 8,000 Filipino troops are on Jolo on instructions from
President Gloria Arroyo to crush the Abu Sayyaf, a small gang of
self-styled Islamic militants who experts say once received
funding from Al-Qaeda.


The Abu Sayyaf group has been blamed for a series of bomb attacks
in the Philippines in recent years, as well as for high-profile
kidnappings of foreigners and missionaries.


Since the military operation on Jolo began last September the
group's top two leaders have been killed and the remaining
members, said to number around 400, have splintered into smaller
units trying to evade government forces.


Isnilon Hapilon is among the last few senior Abu Sayyaf leaders
trying to assert overall command over the group. The US
government has offered up to five million dollars for his arrest.

