

Zach Johnson, who missed the cut in seven of 11 prior majors,
made three birdies in four holes to outduel Tiger Woods down the
back nine here Sunday and win the 71st Masters by two strokes.


The 31-year-old American, whose only prior PGA victory came in
2004 at Atlanta, fired a three-under par 69 to finish 72 holes at
Augusta National on one-over par 289, matching the highest
winning score in Masters history.


Woods shared second on three-over 291 with South Africans Retief
Goosen and Rory Sabbatini with American Jerry Kelly and England's
Justin Rose sharing fifth on 292.


Stuart Appleby, the 54-hole leader by a shot over Woods and Rose
who tried to become the first Australian to win the Masters,
shared seventh on 293 with Padraig Harrington, who tried to be
the first Irish major winner in 60 years.


Johnson, who took home 1.305 million dollars from a total purse
of 7.25 million dollars, shared 32nd here last year after missing
the cut in his 2005 debut.


"Zach has been a very good player for a long time," Goosen said.
"He hits the ball straight and low and hits it accuratelty and
that's what you need to do around here this week."


By winning the green jacket, Johnson denied Woods his 13th major
title and third in a row, spoiling the world number one's bid for
the third leg of a "Tiger Slam" sweep of four majors in a row.


Woods is 12-for-12 in majors when leading after 54 holes but
still has never won a major when trailing after three rounds, as
he did by a stroke to Appleby.


Johnson became the first Masters winner not to play in the final
pairing since Nick Faldo in 1990.


"Being Easter, Jesus was with me every step of the way. I felt
Him," Johnson said.


Gusty winds, lightning-fast greens and frigid conditions helped
push Johnson's final total to equal with the record worst by a
winner, 289s by Sam Snead in 1954 and Jack Burke in 1956.


"Under the circumstances, that's great golfing," Sabbatini said.
"That was a phenomenal round."


Johnson began with a bogey but followed with birdies at the par-5
second and par-4 third. He answered a bogey at the fifth with a
birdie at the par-5 eighth but began his critical run as he
exited Amen Corner, the famed 11th-13th holes.


Johnson layed up at the par-5 13th to set up an eight-foot birdie
putt that gave him the lead and followed with a birdie at 14 to
seize a two-stroke edge over two-time US Open champion Goosen
with Woods four back.


Woods rolled his second shot at the par-5 13th four feet from the
pin and made the putt for an eagle to pull into a share of
second, two behind Johnson.


A turning point came on the next hole when Woods missed a
tension-packed 10-footer for birdie at 14th, the ball curling
just left, and Johnson sank a 10-footer for birdie at the 16th to
reach level par and lift his lead to three.


Woods found the water at the par-5 15th but salvaged par while
Johnson took a bogey at the 17th and was just short of a bunker
at the 18th green before chipping inches from the cup and tapping
in his par.


Rose, who made double bogeys at the first and third holes, pulled
within one by making birdies on the 15th and 16th.


But needing a birdie to pull level, Rose came up short of the
green and took himself out of contention with a double bogey -
failing in his bid to become the first European major winner
since Scotsman Paul Lawrie won the 1999 British Open.


Woods had the last gasp but missed an eagle bid from the 18th
fairway and settled for a final-round 72.


Woods led briefly but was in trouble from the start. His approach
rolled off the front of the first green and he missed a 10-foot
par putt, but answered with a birdie at the second to move atop
until a Sabbatini eagle at eight.


Woods botched the par-3 sixth, missing a curvy 15-foot par putt,
and began the back nine with another bogey. At the 11th, Woods
broke the shaft of an iron when he slammed it into a tree making
an approach on his way to a par.


Augusta National surrendered some trademark back-nine dramatics
with watered greens and friendlier pin placements allowing for
choices that could bring glory or disaster.


Appleby saw his hopes sink into Rae's Creek when his 7-iron at
the par-3 12th found the water and he took a double bogey to
tumble back.


Goosen, the US Open winner in 2001 and 2004 and 2002 Masters
runner-up, made the cut on the number after a pair of 76s but
withstood the most difficult scoring conditions in Masters
history while rivals stumbled back.


"The wind died down on the back nine in late afternoon and those
guys had chances," Goosen said. "I just couldn't buy a putt on
the back nine."


Sabbatini, who turned 31 last Monday, missed the cut in 12 of 21
prior major starts. He shared 36th here last year, his only made
cut in four prior tries.


Defending champion Phil Mickelson took a triple-bogey at the
first hole and never recovered.

