

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was expected to again defy Western
pressure on Monday by announcing a stride forward in Iran's
atomic drive as it marked the first Iranian national day of
nuclear technology.


Just days after Iran released 15 British sailors to end a
potentially dangerous stand-off with London, Ahmadinejad will
make a keynote speech at around 1200 GMT at the country's most
sensitive nuclear site in Natanz.


"Today the president will tell of a great nuclear development at
the Natanz celebration," the government newspaper Iran said in an
article entitled "the last nuclear phase."


The nuclear day marks the first anniversary of Iran's production
of uranium sufficiently enriched to make nuclear fuel and was to
be celebrated by a string of events at key installations across
the country.


State-run bus and metro travel in Tehran was made free for the
day in celebration and bells at Iranian schools were rung in
unison at 9:00 am local time, state television reported.


A human chain of 15,000 members of Iran's volunteer Basij militia
was to surround another key nuclear facility outside the central
city of Isfahan and a similar event was to be held at the heavy
water plant in Arak.


Children were to fly kites bearing the slogan "a bright future
with atomic energy" above the first Iranian nuclear power plant
in Bushehr -- a much-delayed project that is being built with
Russian help.


Ahmadinejad has repeatedly promised "good nuclear news" and state
television was repeatedly saying Monday the announcement would
come during his visit to the heavily defended uranium enrichment
plant in Natanz.


Any major announcement of progress is likely to further strain
tensions with the West, which fears Iran is seeking nuclear
weapons and wants Tehran to suspend enrichment.


But the Islamic republic insists its nuclear drive is solely
aimed at supplying energy for a growing population.


Iranian officials have remained tight-lipped over the nature of
the news, which is expected to relate to progress towards
enriching uranium on an industrial scale at Natanz.


Iran's stated aim is to install 3,000 uranium-enriching
centrifuges at a massive underground hall at the plant, and local
media have speculated that the announcement will focus on
progress towards this goal.


"What is the good news? Iran's acquisition of the production of
nuclear fuel on a semi-industrial scale," the reformist daily
Etemad Melli said.


Tehran originally wanted to have the 3,000 installed by March,
but so far it has officially confirmed only that it has put in
place two cascades of 164 centrifuges apiece.


According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, there are at
least 1,000 centrifuges in Natanz at different stages of
installation, but only around a third have yet been fed with
uranium hexafluoride gas feedstock.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums from
the world body to suspend uranium enrichment.


Uranium enrichment is highly sensitive because the process can be
used both to make fuel for nuclear energy plants and the
explosive core of a nuclear bomb. Iran insists it has every right
to the full nuclear fuel cycle.


Last April Iran announced it had succeeded in enriching uranium
to 3.5 percent, good enough for nuclear fuel but still well off
the 90 percent levels required to make an atomic weapon.


Tehran on Sunday again dashed any hopes that after the release of
the British sailors it might take a softer line on demands that
it halt uranium enrichment.


"We will not discuss the legitimate rights of Iran," foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told a news conference.

