

Bangladesh's stunning progress in the World Cup has given cricket
lovers in India reason to cheer again after their own team was
knocked out in the first round.


The giant-killing feats of Habibur Bashar's men have revived
interest in the tournament for millions of Indians, who now want
both Sri Lanka and Bangladesh to advance to the semi-finals.


That Bangladesh caused India's World Cup exit with a shock five-
wicket win in the preliminary round mattered little as fans
shared the joy of their unheralded neighbours.


"They deserve their success," said Delhi student Shoumik Bose. "I
had stopped watching the World Cup after India were defeated, but
Bangladesh has forced me to switch on my TV again."


Another fan, Venayak Gupta, added: "With India and Pakistan both
gone, my interest is only in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. It will be
great if an Asian country wins the World Cup."


While Sri Lanka are well-placed to make the semi-finals with six
points after three games, Bangladesh must defeat England, Ireland
and the West Indies in their remaining matches to advance.


Few would have given ninth-ranked Bangladesh a chance before the
World Cup began, but the momentum gained by the stunning win over
South Africa on Saturday has left critics excited.


"They were brilliant against the world's top side like South
Africa," said former Indian all-rounder Mohinder Amarnath, who
coached Bangladesh for a brief period in the 1990s.


"This side is confident. They know they can win."


Even India's cricket administrators, who have rarely taken
Bangladesh seriously, are now singing a different tune.


"Everyone is harping on how India poorly fared at the World Cup,
but one must give credit to Bangladesh who played so well," said
Indian cricket board treasurer N. Srinivasan.


India, who helped Bangladesh gain Test status in 2000, is the
only Test-playing nation that has not hosted their neighbours in
the belief that a series against them will be a financial
disaster.


"After years of being snubbed by big brother, the little 'un
turned around and administered an embarrassing slap in the face,"
the British daily, The Guardian, wrote after India's defeat in
the World Cup.


"The minnow talk can end here and now. Bangladesh cricket has
arrived and, with 150 million passionate followers, is here to
stay.


"What price an invitation to India now? And wouldn't it be
priceless if the subcontinent's new tigers turned it down?"


India are due to play three one-day internationals and two Tests
in Bangladesh next month, a tour that has assumed greater
significance after the World Cup debacle.


India will go on the three-week tour with an interim cricket
manager in Test star-turned-commentator Ravi Shastri following
coach Greg Chappell's decision not to renew his two-year
contract.


Rahul Dravid will continue as captain, but India's cricket chiefs
have instructed selectors to pick a "young team" in a bid to make
a fresh start in world cricket.

