

There is more to Singapore-Indonesia ties than the current row
over the supply of sand and granite, Foreign Minister George Yeo
said Monday.


"If you look at our bilateral relations with Indonesia on the
whole, it is a big account and we are mutually dependent in so
many ways," Yeo told parliament.


"There are specific problems here and there, and it is best that
we manage them as discreet problems rather than linking
everything together."


Indonesia has banned the export of land sand to Singapore, and
stricter checks by the Indonesian Navy on barges bound for the
island republic have disrupted granite supplies as well.


Sand and granite are key ingredients for concrete used in
Singapore's vibrant building and construction sector, which has
rebounded from the 1997 Asian financial crisis.


Yeo said Singapore was taking "at face value" Indonesia's
official explanation that the ban was taken to protect the
environment.


Some Indonesian officials have been quoted in Indonesia's media
as saying the ban was taken to pressure Singapore to sign an
extradition treaty which Jakarta says is crucial to its fight
against corruption.


A number of suspects wanted in Indonesia on corruption charges
have fled to Singapore to escape the reach of Indonesian justice,
officials in Jakarta allege.


"If any country, in effecting a ban on exports, does so in a way
which contravenes the WTO (World Trade Organisation) or ASEAN's
economic agreement, then we can invoke dispute mechanisms within
those agreements," Yeo said.


"But I believe it is within Indonesia's rights for environmental
reasons to ban the export of sand and it has done so for
environmental reasons ... We have got to take it (reason) at face
value."


Meanwhile, another official told parliament Singapore may reopen
a granite quarry in the city-state's last rustic hideaways.


Minister of State for National Development Grace Fu said the
government would be mindful of environmental issues if it decided
to reopen the quarry on Pulau Ubin, one of the smaller islands
off the mainland.


Fu said that while the government had diversified its foreign
sources for granite after supplies from Indonesia were disrupted,
one option was to tap the island's local sources.


The government "will look into restarting one of its former
quarries in Pulau Ubin," she said.


Granite quarrying on Pulau Ubin was halted in the late 1990s, and
the scenic island has been spared the massive urban development
that transformed Singapore into a modern city of skyscrapers.

