

The world's biggest gas exporting countries begin a two-day
meeting here Monday to discuss proposals to form a cartel -- an
idea that has consumer nations worried even if it does not appear
imminent.


The Gas Exporting Countries Forum, hosted by Qatar which aspires
to eventually become the world's top exporter of liquefied
natural gas (LNG), has been a low- key grouping but talk of a
cartel has propelled the organisation into the limelight.


Founded in 2001, GECF is an informal structure grouping 15
countries. It includes Russia, Iran, Qatar, Venezuela and
Algeria, which together control 72 percent of world reserves and
42 percent of production.


Until now, its activities have remained limited, and it has not
even met since 2005.


The Doha meeting, the sixth since the GECF was founded, will
focus mainly on the possibility of forming a cartel along the
lines of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries.


The idea of a "gas OPEC," favoured by Iran in particular, gained
momentum in August last year when Europe's two main natural gas
suppliers, Gazprom of Russia and Algeria's Sonatrach, signed a
partnership accord.


It was given a further boost in February when Russian President
Vladimir Putin, whose country's massive gas resources account for
nearly 30 percent of known world reserves and 20 percent of
production, said it was "interesting."


Western European countries are concerned that Moscow might gain
leverage over consumers by coordinating supplies with other gas-
rich nations.


On the eve of the meeting Venezuela and Iran said they strongly
backed forming a gas cartel.


"We are here to support gas OPEC. Its a very good idea ... Its
very important for (gas) producers to have some agreement,"
Venezuelan Energy Minister Rafael Ramirez said upon his arrival
to Doha.


"We also think that if the forum moves in that direction (forming
a cartel), it will strengthen the forum," Iranian Oil Minister
Kazem Vaziri Hamaneh told journalists, adding other countries
were "favourable" to the idea.


But Egyptian Energy Minister Sameh Fahmi said the world is not
prepared for a gas cartel.


"It's not a good idea at this stage," he said.


"At least in the OPEC, you know what the price of the crude oil,
you know the quotas. With regards to gas, nobody knows the prices
and nobody is declaring the price of their exports," Fahmi said.


"It's very difficult ... we are talking about the security of
(gas) supplies. We should have stability in the market ...
through talks with the consumers," the minister said.


Earlier, Algerian Energy Minister Chakib Khelil told AFP that the
gas cartel proposal was only an idea.


"This is still an idea that has not reached a level that makes us
say that gas producing and exporting countries would form an
organisation," Khelil said.


Despite Putin's earlier statements, Russia's energy minister has
downplayed talk of a gas cartel.


"Are we going to sign up to a (gas) price policy? Of course not,"
Industry and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko told a news
conference last week.


The International Energy Agency warned in February that a gas
cartel would reduce demand and hurt producers.


Analysts say the structure and technical limitations of the gas
market are not conducive to price fixing. Sales are generally
negotiated under long-term contracts, running to 15 or 20 years,
and the gas distributed by pipelines.

