

China on Monday officially appointed Donald Tsang as Hong Kong's
chief executive for a second term, following last month's
election that saw the territory's first leadership contest under
Chinese rule.


Tsang received the formal "book of appointment" at a ceremony
held at the Zhongnanhai compound for China's leaders in Beijing,
according to the official Xinhua news agency.


At the appointment ceremony, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao expressed
his approval of Tsang's policies that focus "on improving
people's living standards, pursuing social harmony and promoting
democracy," Xinhua said.


The former British colony that was returned to China in 1997
exists as a largely autonomous capitalist territory within the
authoritarian Chinese state under a "one country, two systems"
arrangement.


Hong Kong's leaders are elected by a committee of 800 elites who
are mostly loyal to China's communist rulers in Beijing.


Tsang won the most recent vote in March, easily beating lawmaker
Alan Leong in the first contested leadership race since 1997.


He has promised to begin moves to transform the political
landscape in Hong Kong, introducing more democracy in accordance
with the Basic Law constitution that came into force at the
handover.


Leong is a leading light in a reformist movement that has for the
past decade campaigned for the swift introduction of democracy,
while the China-backed government has been accused of halting the
process.


In comments released last week, Wen endorsed the democratic
credentials of the March ballot.


"The election, conforming to the principle of openness, fairness
and justice, fully tallied with the Basic Law and other relevant
laws," Wen said.


"Tsang's victory in the election meets the Hong Kong people's
expectations and reflects their trust in him."


Tsang was first appointed chief executive in 2005 when he took
over the truncated second term of the wealthy southern Chinese
territory's first post- colonial leader Tung Chee-hwa, who
resigned early due to poor health.


Although Tsang, a devout Catholic, was not elected by the people
of Hong Kong, he retains huge public support following his 40
years as a civil servant, including stints as financial secretary
and deputy leader.


Tsang's inauguration effectively kicked off the run up to the
city's 10th anniversary celebrations of its return to Chinese
rule on July 1.

