

US presidential candidate Bill Richardson spent his first full
day in North Korea Monday to try to recover the remains of
American war dead, saying he believes the communist state wants a
better relationship with Washington.


The visit by the New Mexico governor and other officials comes
days before a deadline under a six-nation deal to dismantle the
North's nuclear programmes, and amid confusion over whether that
target will be met.


The White House has said the trip by Richardson, accompanied by
National Security Council Director for Asia Victor Cha among
others, is separate from the six-party disarmament talks.


Richardson, who has undertaken five previous missions to
Pyongyang, has  also said he will not negotiate nuclear matters.
But he expressed hope the North would honour its deal.


"I believe for the first time they do want to enter into an
agreement with the six-party countries and they want a better
relationship with the United States. They know that the key is
dismantling their nuclear weapons," he told NBC news on his plane
before arriving Sunday night.


But he cautioned: "I have learned with the North Koreans, you
don't know what they are going to do next. They are totally
unpredictable."


The United States, China, the two Koreas, Russia and Japan
reached an agreement on February 13 under which the North would
disable its nuclear programmes in return for economic aid and
diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was to shut down and seal its reactor and
other facilities at Yongbyon by April 14, invite in UN inspectors
and receive an initial 50,000 tons of fuel oil.


But talks have been stymied by a row over 25 million dollars in
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation on
suspicion they are linked to money-laundering and counterfeiting.


The US has promised to unblock the funds to get the disarmament
talks moving, but technical banking hurdles remain.


While the US said Friday a way had been found to transfer the
funds, Seoul's Yonhap news agency quoted a source close to the
talks as saying nothing has changed.


South Korea's largest-circulation newspaper Chosun Ilbo also
indicated Monday the dispute is not settled.


A government official told the paper the North demands the money
be transferred to another of its overseas bank accounts, "but
there are too many difficulties in reality."


The official added: "The US and China insist that everything
should be taken care of by the Macau authorities and North
Korea."


A diplomatic source told the paper that Washington and Beijing
are suggesting that a separate account be created at the Macau
bank from which North Korea could withdraw its money.


US nuclear envoy Christopher Hill was to leave on Sunday for
Tokyo and later head to Seoul and Beijing in an apparent bid to
restart talks.


The delegation led by Richardson will on Wednesday visit the
inter-Korean border village of Panmunjom, where the soldiers'
remains are to be transferred.


The team will then cross the border and head for a US army
garrison in the Yongsan district of Seoul for a formal
repatriation ceremony on Thursday.


More than 33,000 US troops died in the 1950-1953 war and about
8,100 are listed as missing.


Richardson has said the return of any remains would be a sign of
progress in the relationship.


In comments to NBC in Pyongyang he expressed optimism. "I have
been informed that there will be some American remains delivered
to us," he said.

