

Left is proving to be just right at the Wolrd Cup.


Bowlers are finding it difficult to keep their reputation intact
against teams having a left-handed power-hitter at the top of the
order in the Caribbean.


Australians Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist, Sri Lankan Sanath
Jayasuriya, New Zealander Stephen Fleming and South African
Graeme Smith have proved that power- hitting is the key to
setting or chasing big targets.


Teenager Tamim Iqbal may be in the infancy of his international
career, but has played a big role in Bangladesh's shock wins over
India and South Africa. The left-handed opener scored 51 against
India and 38 against South Africa.


One of the main reasons for the West Indies' below-par batting
performances is the mediocre form of Chris Gayle, another left-
handed opener capable of seizing the initiatve for his team when
in full flow.


Unfortunately for the West Indies, Gayle is still without a half-
century after six matches.


Hayden and Jayasuriya are playing in their last Cup and look
determined to leave their mark on the biggest one-day event.


The Australian's hunger is understandable as he has been in and
out of the one- day side since the 2005 Ashes tour of England.


"I wasn't in the side about six months ago. I'm just very
grateful for the opportunity. I've really worked hard over the
last year and a half to get my position back," said Hayden who
was the tournament's top-scorer going into Sunday's match with
England where he made 41.


Hayden looked unstoppable as he cracked a half-century against
minnows Scotland in the opening match and then smashed the
fastest Cup hundred off just 66 balls against top-ranked South
Africa.


His knock eclipsed Canadian John Davison's 67-ball century
against the West Indies in the 2003 edition in South Africa.


The 35-year-old Hayden continued in the same vein, hammering a
robust 158 against the West Indies in the opening Super Eights
game to set up his team's comfortable victory.


Jayasuriya remains a key to his team's fortunes even after
spending more than a decade in international cricket.


The 37-year-old is credited with redefining batting in the
initial overs with his consistent over-the-top hitting in the
1996 World Cup in the sub-continent.


Jayasuriya has already smashed centuries against the West Indies
and Bangladesh to revive memories of 1996 when he emerged one of
the stars of Arjuna Ranatunga's Cup-winning squad.


The pitches may be slow and favouring fast bowlers in the early
overs, but Jayasuriya has been batting with freedom to demoralise
the opposition with his breath-taking strokes.


He has already scored 303 in six games here with a century
against the West Indies.


"I want to finish the World Cup on a high note," Jayasuriya said
after the West Indies match. "Although I have 25 centuries, I'll
never forget this one."


Australia enjoy the edge over their opponents because they have
not one, but a pair of left-handers at the top as Gilchrist has
been ruining the bowlers' reputation for nearly a decade with his
audacious stroke-play.


The wicketkeeper-batsman has scored 238 in his six matches here.


New Zealand captain Fleming has scored 280 in five matches with
one hundred and two half-centuries at the World Cup.


Smith has been dominating the bowling right from the first match.
His consistency at the top helped South Africa get off to a solid
start in most of the games.


The South African captain had made four successive half-centuries
before missing out on the fifth against Ireland when he scored
41.


And when he failed against Bangladesh here on Saturday, his team
continued to struggle for runs before losing the match.

