

A Taliban-style Islamic court in the Pakistani capital has issued
a fatwa against a female minister for posing in an "obscene
manner" with French paraglider pilots, a top cleric said Monday.


The religious decree against Tourism Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar
was the first to be made by the so-called court at the hardline
Red Mosque in Islamabad since mullahs announced its formation on
Friday, in defiance of the government.


"The muftis (judges) issued a decree against Tourism Minister
Nilofar Bakhtiar when their attention was drawn towards some
pictures in which she appeared in an obscene and objectionable
manner with paraglider pilots in Paris," the mosque's deputy
leader deputy Abdul Rashid Ghazi told AFP.


"They have called on the government to punish and sack her from
the cabinet," he said.


The pictures, published in a local Urdu-language newspaper, show
Bakhtiar in brightly-coloured paragliding gear taking part in a
tandem glide during a trip to France and then hugging an
instructor upon landing.


Red Mosque chief Abdul Aziz said in a fiery sermon on Friday that
"tens of thousands" of suicide bombers would launch attacks if
security forces try to raid the site and shut down the new court.


The government of key US ally President Pervez Musharraf has so
far taken no action against the mosque, despite its open defiance
of the authorities by setting up a parallel justice system.


Deputy Information Minister Tariq Azeem condemned the fatwa,
saying that "no individual has the right to propose a punishment
for anyone."


"We are, however, determined to resolve the issue (of the Red
Mosque in general) through negotiations. Use of force will be the
last option," he told AFP.


Female students from a school attached to the mosque late last
month kidnapped an alleged brothel owner and made her publicly
repent. Their male counterparts briefly abducted two policemen at
the same time.


The mosque's baton-wielding devotees have also set up so-called
morality patrols telling local shops not to sell "un-Islamic"
music and movies.


They have occupied a nearby children's library since January in
protest at plans to demolish several illegally built mosques in
Islamabad.


In the southern city of Karachi another pro-Musharraf party, the


Muttahida Qaumi Movement which represents Muslims who migrated to
Pakistan from India after partition, held a rally late Sunday
against Islamic extremism.


"No mullah has the right to teach us Islam through sticks or
Kalashnikovs -- we will not allow the Talibanisation of
Pakistan," party chief Altaf Hussain told several thousand people
via telephone from London.

