

Olympic and world judo champion Ryoko Tani's comeback after
having a baby has stirred controversy, as she was selected for
the world championships despite losing in the national trials.


Tani, a 31-year-old Japanese icon struggling to find time for
training while rearing her son, was dumped by Tomoko Fukumi with
a clean leg sweep in the women's 48-kilogramme bantamweight final
at the national championships Sunday.


But the All-Japan Judo Federation still picked Tani, who won a
record six straight world titles and two Olympic gold medals
before her two-year maternity leave, for the world championships
in Rio De Janeiro in September.


"The first step toward her gold medal as a mama," read a headline
in the Nikkan Sports daily.


The decision has buoyed Tani's bid for an Olympic three-peat in
Beijing next year but it has also raised some eyebrows as a
possible breach of fair play.


The annual event is supposed to decide the strongest in each
weight category along with the representative at the world
championships or the Olympics. The open-weight national
championships are separately held every year.


"At my current level, I cannot stand on the top of the world,"
admitted Tani, who was woken up twice the night before the title
match to breastfeed her 15 -month-old son and used a breast pump
to collect milk after her first match in Fukuoka.


The 146-centimetre (4 foot 10 inch) master of "seionage" shoulder
throws, who resumed full training only three weeks earlier,
added, however: "If I keep on training steadfastly, I'll be able
to fully do it."


Enjoying endorsement and sponsorship deals, Tani has also become
a role model for young Japanese mothers who hope to pursue their
careers in a country struggling to reverse a declining birthrate.


"Tani is different from other competitors," Kazuro Yoshimura, the
federation's director of technical development, said after some
two hours of heated argument at the selectors' meeting.


"She has won under whatever circumstances over years. She is
closer to a medal than Fukumi," Yoshimura said. "We absolutely
need Tani's help to win a gold medal."


But former world champion and fellow selector Kaori Yamaguchi
complained: "If you are not selected despite winning, it rules
out chances for others."


"If there is no chance for Fukumi this year, that means she will
have none for next year's Olympics," said Yamaguchi, who once
coached Fukumi.


It was a repeat giant-killing feat by Fukumi, 21, who came from
nowhere to shock Tani in the first round five years ago at the
same event as a schoolgirl.


The 2002 upset put an end to Tani's 65-match winning streak and
was her last defeat until Sunday.


"I was just lucky last time. This time, I was determined to win
no matter what," said Fukumi. "I will aim to be the world's
number one. My battle has just begun."


The federation's selection criteria include a track record in
major international competitions.


Fukumi outpointed Olympic silver medallist Frederique Jossinet of
France in the 48kg final at the prestigious Fukuoka women's
international tournament last December.


Tani, who married professional baseball player Yoshitomo Tani in
late 2003, is seen as a driving force to put Japan back on top
after they lost their men's and women's titles at the world team
championships in Paris last September.


In Beijing, she could be the first Japanese mother to win an
Olympic title.


Ethiopia's Derartu Tulu, the 10,000-metre Olympic gold medallist
in 1992, won the title again in 2000 two years after giving
birth.


In judo, Cuban Amarilis Savon won the world 52kg title in 2003
two years after having her first baby.


"I feel very groggy after breastfeeding. It's like going to fight
after donating blood," said Tani. "My daily schedule is led by my
child as he is still so small. But he will come to understand
things in a year or two."

