

An Al-Qaeda linked extremist group blamed for the Bali bombings
has formed a new military wing in Indonesia with about 100
trained operatives, a report said Monday.


The wing, called the Sariyah or military company, has held
training exercises to teach its operatives bomb making and
firearm assembly skills, Indonesia's Tempo magazine reported.


The wing is headed by the suspected leader of Jemaah Islamiyah,
Abu Dujana, who was forced to restructure the Islamic extremist
group after anti-terror police arrested several of his commanders
late last year, the report said.


The commanders were arrested by Indonesia's US-trained Detachment
88 which has led a series of raids against JI, blamed for the
2002 and 2005 Bali bombings, that killed over 200 people, and
other attacks on Western interests.


Tempo magazine, in its report, cited a militant captured in a
raid by Detachment 88 in March this year.


The militant, Ayyasy, was quoted as saying that before his
arrest, he headed the logistics unit of the new wing which has
also held training sessions on the slopes of a mountain in
central Java.


According to Ayyasy, the wing has four territorial commanders,
although two have recently been captured, with only the heads of
the capital Jakarta and central Java areas still in charge.


In the raids in March, one suspected militant was killed, another
injured and several others arrested on Indonesia's main island of
Java.


Australian and Indonesian police say the swoops smashed a
suspected terrorist cell and that one of those arrested was
linked to a deadly attack on the Australian embassy in Jakarta in
2004.


Intelligence gleaned from those arrested led to a major seizure
of bombs and weapons, which police have said would have been used
in atrocities.


Police also said they found charts in a JI hideout that detailed
the new structure of the group.


According to Tempo's report, leader Dujana, known as the
"Teacher" and "Pak Guru" to his men, was contemptuous of
suspected militant Noordin Muhammad Top, Southeast Asia's most
wanted man.


Noordin is thought to have led JI when it conducted attacks
between 2002 and 2005 before Dujana, who reputedly fought with
the mujahadeen in Afghanistan against the Soviets, took over.


Dujana argued Noordin's attacks lacked coordination and had
hindered JI, the report said. Security experts suspect Noordin, a
Malaysian who remains at large, has left JI to form his own hard-
line militant group.


The United States says JI aims to establish a pan-Islamic state
in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

