

Australia captain Ricky Ponting has backed Shaun Tait to fill the
void left by Brett Lee and spearhead the team's charge for a
third straight World Cup title.


The 24-year-old quick was named man-of-the-match for his three
for 41 in Australia's seven-wicket Super Eights victory against
England here at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium as his table-
topping team moved a step closer towards the semi-finals.


Tait beat England captain Michael Vaughan (five) and the recalled
Andrew Strauss (seven) for pace, the experienced duo both playing
on.


He then returned in the middle of the innings to maintain the
pressure by having Paul Collinwgood, a thorn in Australia's side
during England's 2-0 CB series finals win in February, caught
behind for two.


Often criticised for his waywardness, Tait was noticeably more
accurate than in previous games and Ponting said his strike
bowler was following a similar path to Lee, who didn't make it to
the Caribbean because of an ankle injury.


"The pleasing thing in Shaun being man-of-the-match is that he
took a look at his bowling in the first few games and found an
area or two where he could change things around a little bit.


"It's great to see the younger guys working on their games and
getting some results out of it," said Ponting who backed up
Tait's efforts with an 86 that helped see Australia, chasing 248,
win with 16 balls to spare.


Tait, who has now taken 11 wickets at under 23 apiece this
tournament, added: "I've been a bit disappointed throughout the
tournament with my first few overs of every game.


"I haven't been hitting my straps quite like I should be. I've
been disappointed with the wides I've been bowling with the new
ball, but I controlled it a lot better today."


Ponting said there was no reason why, with veteran seamer Glenn
McGrath due to retire after the World Cup, Tait and Lee couldn't
play in the same one-day side.


"I'd love to have both guys in my team if they are going as well
as they can. Glenn's obviously finishing up so a bowling spot's
open.


"Brett's got away from the out-and-out strike bowler he's always
been labelled as. Tait is that for us at the moment. But the more
he plays the more he'll understand the ways to go about bowling
in different conditions.


"Brett's a bit more advanced, he understands his game very well.
He's taking wickets but doesn't go for runs. That always plagued
him early in his career, when he was going around six an over but
he's got that down a lot in the last few years.


"He's been the best bowler in the world in one-day international
cricket for some time."


Ponting said that while England had provided Australia with their
"biggest test" at the tournament they should have provided an
even sterner challenge.


"They should have made 270-280, no question.


"I'm not sure what it is about us. Brad Hogg (Australia's lone
specialist spinner) got us a crucial breakthrough (having Andrew
Flintoff stumped for four), as did Shane early on and McGrath
through the middle."


Australia next play surprise package Ireland in Barbados on
Friday and Ponting insisted: "There's still some improvement to
come, we haven't played our best cricket yet."

