

Ricky Ponting believes his decision to delay the third powerplay
proved crucial in his team's seven-wicket World Cup win over
England here on Sunday.


Kevin Pietersen and Ian Bell were cruising along, putting on 140
runs for the third wicket as England sighted a score beyond 300
at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


But Ponting's decision to call for the third powerplay from the
27th over paid off as Bell was quickly removed, caught by Michael
Hussey off Glenn McGrath for 77, followed by the dangerous Paul
Collingwood who was caught behind by Adam Gilchrist off Shaun
Tait for just two.


The run-rate dried up, the English tail was exposed and Michael
Vaughan's side limped to 247 all out before Australia knocked off
the runs to maintain their 100-percent record in the tournament.


"It was a really tight game and Kevin and Ian played
beautifully," admitted Ponting.


"The intensity was the difference today. We kept up the pressure
and the bowlers did a terrific job.


"We had to keep the third powerplay back. If you take them too
early, it can be really hard work for the bowlers. So I decided
to hold off a little bit to see if the ball would reverse swing.


"It reversed a little so we took the powerplay then and Shaun
Tait in his spell was terrific."


Ponting, who made 86 in his team's innings, believes mastery of
the powerplay, when fielding restrictions come into operation, is
a useful tool in dictating the pace of a game.


"When they came in I think a lot of captains just wanted to get
them out of the way as quickly as possible," said Ponting whose
side are on top of the Super Eights table and virtually
guaranteed a semi-final place.


"But conditions vary around the world and it means sometimes it
can be in your favour to take them later in an innings and today
was one of those days."


Vaughan, who failed again with the bat making just five before he
was dismissed by Tait, still believes England can make the semi-
finals.


"Not many of us are playing that well and we are making it
difficult for ourselves. We will have to win our next three games
if we are to get to the semi-finals," he said.


Vaughan recognised that England wasted a golden opportunity to
beat their old rivals.


"We were 164-2 and were looking at 280-290 which would have been
a really competitive total. Even at 247 we were still in the
game.


"We tried to get a few wickets and put the squeeze on them but
all credit to them."


England's next match is against Bangladesh in Barbados on
Wednesday while Australia, bidding for a third successive World
Cup title, face Ireland, also in Barbados, on Friday.

