

US swimming sensation Michael Phelps said here Monday he hoped to
race for eight gold medals at next year's Beijing Olympics and
out-do Mark Spitz's Games record of seven titles.


The US champion won seven golds in eight events and set five
world records at the recent World Championships in Melbourne,
Australia, and said that he was gunning for the same eight races
in Beijing.


"In all honesty, I really would love to have the opportunity to
try that same programme again next year," said Phelps.


He said that would depend on the quality of his training
performances over the next year.


"Being able to do that and be as successful as I was (in
Melbourne), honestly I really would love the opportunity to try
that again," he told journalists here.


Spitz's seven gold-medal standard has stood since the 1972 Munich
Olympics, but Phelps is challenging his mantle as the greatest
swimmer of all-time.


In Melbourne Phelps, 21, won the 100m and 200m butterfly, 200m
freestyle, 200m and 400m medleys and the 4x100m and 4x200m
freestyle relays.


He set world records in the 200m butterfly (1:52.09), 200m
freestyle (1:43.86), 200m medley (1:54.98), 400m medley (4:06.22)
and as the lead-off swimmer in the 4x200m freestyle relay
(7:03.24).


He would have won an unprecedented eight golds, but his teammates
botched a changeover in the medley relay heats and were
disqualified while he was being rested from the anticipated
final.


Phelps is visiting Beijing and Shanghai this week to promote the
Special Olympics, which takes place in Shanghai in October. He is
accompanied by fellow US Olympic and world champions Katie Hoff
and Ryan Lochte, and Olympic champion Megan Jendrick.


Phelps said he was certain the US team would swim fast and win a
lot of titles in Beijing.


"You will be able to see a lot of fast times and a lot of medals
won," he said.


"We can theoretically go one-two in a lot of events. We showed a
lot of possibilities in Melbourne."


He said he had no problem with the controversial morning finals
at the Beijing Olympics.


The decision to stage finals in the morning to suit US TV prime
time slots has upset some competitors but Phelps said it was not
an issue.


"Everybody has to get ready for that and prepare for that," he
said. "If you can't step up and get excited for an event whether
it is in the morning or the evening, then don't come."

