

All parliament members from the ruling Justice and Development
Party support Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan as Turkey's
next president, a senior minister was quoted as saying Monday.


Erdogan, a former Islamist who disowned his past and now
describes himself as a "conservative democrat," has refused to
say whether he will run for president in elections next month,
but his presumed intention has already sparked harsh objections
by secularists and raised tensions in Ankara.


The president is elected for a single seven-year term by the
550-member parliament, where his AKP party, which has its roots
in political Islam, holds a two-third majority that will allow it
to easily elect the candidate of its choice.


"When you ask who should become a candidate and who should be the
president, all 353 AKP deputies, excluding the parliament speaker
who cannot vote, agree on the prime minister's candidacy," the
mass-selling Milliyet daily quoted Deputy Prime Minister
Abdullatif Sener as saying.


Several deputies believe Erdogan should stay on as prime minister
to lead the AKP to general elections in November, but say they
will also support him if he decides to run for the country's
highest post, Sener added.


Opponents say Erdogan is unfit for the job because he is a
divisive figure with no true commitment to the fiercely guarded
secular system of this overwhelmingly Muslim country.


The main opposition center-left Republican People's Party
describes the presidency as the "last stronghold" of secularism
and accuses the AKP of seeking to seize it to advance what it
terms its secret Islamist agenda.


The influential military, the academic elite and the judiciary
are also mistrustful of the AKP.


The election, which can run to three rounds, should be completed
on May 15 at the latest, but a detailed timetable has yet to be
fixed. Parliament will begin collecting candidacy applications on
April 16.


No party has so far announced a candidate.


Pro-secular civic groups have called a rally in Ankara on April
14 to protest against Erdogan's purported intention to succeed
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunch secularist who has often
clashed with the government.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has a one-
time right to reject bills passed by parliament and the final
word on appointing senior government officials.


Sezer, a former senior judge, has often sent back to parliament
laws he considered breaches of secularism and blocked the
appointment of officials he saw as Islamist government cronies.

