

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Monday thanked Japan for
its assistance to Baghdad, on the first full day of a trip to
Tokyo focused on developing the war-torn country's oil industry.


Maliki opened his visit by attending a ceremonial audience with
Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at their palace in central
Tokyo. He then started a series of meetings to culminate in a
summit with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


"The reason I have come here is to express thanks for Japan's
contributions to Iraq," Maliki told reporters as he started a
meeting with Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma.


Maliki was making his first visit to Japan and South Korea, two
key economic partners of Iraq which both sent troops after the
US-led coalition toppled Saddam Hussein four years ago.


US President George W. Bush has frequently cited the alliance
between the United States and Japan -- where Akihito's father
Hirohito was revered as a demigod until 1945 -- as an example of
reconciliation for Iraq.


But the Iraq war has also faced opposition in Japan. Kyuma, the
defence minister, caused a stir in January when he said the US
decision to invade Iraq was "wrong."


Kyuma stayed away from the controversy in his opening remarks at
the meeting with Maliki, welcoming him to Japan at the tail-end
of the cherry blossom season.


"This is a beautiful season in Japan," Kyuma told him. "I'm glad
you're here."


In his visit to Tokyo set to run through Wednesday, Maliki is
expected to sign a 700-million-dollar loan agreement to help his
war-torn country improve crude oil output and power generation.


The 40-year loan is part of six billion dollars in debt waivers
and 1.5 billion dollars in aid which Japan announced for Iraq in
2003. Much of the aid is on hold due to concerns about
instability.


"Iraq is important for us in terms of securing stable supply of
crude oil. In that context, we would like to form a long-term
partnership with Iraq," a Japanese foreign ministry official
said.


Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has few natural
resources and is almost entirely dependent on the Middle East for
its oil.


"We have so far offered humanitarian assistance through the Self-
Defence Forces, development assistance and debt waivers. Now we
want to shift our relations to become a strategic partner of
Iraq, which has the world's third largest oil reserves," the
official said.


Japan, which has been officially pacifist since defeat in World
War II, took the landmark step of sending 600 troops there on a
reconstruction mission.


It marked the first time since 1945 that Japan sent its soldiers
-- which it calls the Self-Defence Forces due to the pacifist
constitution -- to a country where fighting was under way.


Japan ended the troop deployment last year. But Abe last month
decided to extend by two years an air mission flying goods and
personnel into Iraq on behalf of the United Nations and the US-
led coalition.

