

The dollar gained on the yen and the euro in Asian trade Monday
as unexpectedly strong US jobs data eased market concerns about
the health of the world's largest economy, dealers said.


They said that the market was also looking ahead to Friday's
meeting of world finance chiefs, wary of possible comments on the
weakness of the yen.


The dollar rose to 119.40 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 118.85
in late Asian trade on Friday, when US and European markets were
on holiday.


The euro fell to 1.3366 dollars from 1.3417 but firmed to 159.49
from 159.44.


"The dollar was pushed up by the very strong job figures," said
Kosuke Hanao, a forex dealer at HSBC.


The Labor Department said last Friday that the US economy added
180,000 jobs in March, which was much stronger that the gain of
135,000 expected on Wall Street.


The unemployment rate meanwhile fell to 4.4 percent from 4.5
percent a month earlier. The last time the rate was lower was in
May 2001.


Given the strength of the report it was surprising that the
dollar had not risen even more sharply, said Hanao.


Market participants were also preparing for the meeting in
Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from the
Group of Seven (G7) nations.


"The market is concerned about the meeting and are focused on
whether the finance chiefs will take the same line as in the
previous meeting," Hanao said.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said last Friday that the G7
ministers would discuss currencies in general but would not focus
in particular on the weakness of the yen.


Even so Daisuke Uno, strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp,
said that he thinks the US unit will run into resistance towards
the 120-yen level due to caution ahead of the G7 meeting.


"While no protectionist moves have emerged as yet, the market is
likely to turn wary about what will be discussed at the
forthcoming international meeting," Uno said.


"There is a possibility that France, for instance, prior to the
approaching presidential election there, may try to talk down the
value of the euro," Uno added.


Meanwhile, in a week relatively thin on the economic calendar,
market players will be on the lookout for the minutes from the
March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee for clues on
the direction of US monetary policy.


In Japan, the Bank of Japan starts a two-day monetary policy
meeting Monday but interest rates are widely expected to be left
on hold at 0.5 percent after consumer prices fell for the first
time for 10 months in February.

