

An Afghan journalist was beheaded and seven NATO troops were
killed by roadside bombs at the weekend as Afghanistan's Taliban
militia pushed on with their brutal insurgency.


A Taliban spokesman said Sunday that Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was
kidnapped last month along with Italian journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, was executed because the government failed to meet
their demand to free Taliban prisoners.


The killing was later confirmed by an Afghan intelligence
official and condemned by Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi as
"an absurd crime". The United States described the beheading as
"barbaric".


La Repubblica correspondent Mastrogiacomo was freed after two
weeks in captivity in a controversial exchange for five Taliban
prisoners which was widely condemned. His Afghan driver was
beheaded before his release.


Afghan President Hamid Karzai had described the prisoner exchange
to free Mastrogiacomo as an "extraordinary" situation and said he
would not release any more Taliban prisoners to save the
Italian's Afghan colleague.


The killing of Naqshbandi has raised new fears about the fate of
two French nationals and three Afghan colleagues who were
abducted by Taliban militants last week in the southwestern
province of Nimroz.


News of the execution came as six Canadian soldiers were killed
on Sunday when a suspected Taliban roadside bomb detonated in the
southern province of Helmand, where NATO troops are fighting the
Islamic militia.


The bombing was the deadliest single attack on NATO forces in the
country this year.


The alliance said another NATO soldier was killed in a separate
bombing, without giving further details.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops
who have died in Afghanistan since January.


The Taliban militia launched their insurgency months after being
ousted from power in Kabul by a US-led coalition in the aftermath
of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.


The insurgency intensified last year with Taliban and Al-Qaeda
militants using roadside and suicide bombings, tactics copied
from insurgents fighting US forces in Iraq.


In another tactic made popular in Iraq, the Taliban have
targetted aid workers as well as foreign and local journalists
for kidnapping.


The reported execution of Naqshbandi was met with dismay in
Afghanistan and in Italy, where his colleague Mastrogiacomo was
grief-stricken.


"I am distraught, destroyed. It's a horrible, gratuitous,
cowardly homicide," he told the Italian news agency ANSA.


La Repubblica editor Ezio Mauro said in a statement: "We are in a
time of anguish -- all of La Repubblica, together with Daniele
Mastrogiacomo."


Following the reported killing, opposition politicians in Italy
blamed the Italian government for abandoning the Afghan.


"The execution of Mastrogiacomo's interpreter is a terrible
responsibility for the Prodi government. It casts light on the
cynicism of Prodi, of (Foreign Minister Massimo) D'Alema and
company," said parliamentarian Isabelle Berolini of Silvio
Berlusconi's Forza Italia.

