

Hundreds of thousands of chanting Iraqi Shiites burned and
stamped on US flags at an anti-American rally called by firebrand
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr on the fourth anniversary of the fall of
Saddam Hussein.


Large crowds of men, women and children holding Iraqi flags and
anti-US banners massed in the Shiite holy city Najaf shouting
"No, No to America! Yes, Yes to Freedom!"


Security was also tight for fear of attacks in Baghdad, where
four years ago on Monday a giant bronze statue of Saddam was torn
down, dramatically symbolising the toppling of his iron-fisted
regime by US invasion forces.


A 24-hour vehicle curfew was in place and all main roads and
bridges were deserted as people remained indoors for fear of
attacks.


Jubilant Baghdadis who welcomed the US troops on April 9, 2003,
now blame the rampant bloodshed and chaos on what even some of
Iraq's most senior leaders brand an unwanted occupation.


The Najaf rally is seen as a show of strength for Sadr, who has
not been seen for more than two months, since the launch of a
security crackdown in Baghdad aimed largely at reining in his
militiamen who are accused of killing Sunni Arabs.


The US military has said that Sadr -- regarded by the Americans
as the most dangerous threat to stability -- has gone to Iran but
his aides deny the claims and insist he is still in Iraq. He was
not seen at the rally.


The Shiite demonstrators marched from Kufa, the twin shrine city
of Najaf, to Najaf's central Sadrain Square where Sadr aides
distributed anti-US leaflets.


Hundreds of banners saying "Down with Bush, Down with America"
were carried by protestors as Iraqi police and soldiers guarded
checkpoints in and around Najaf and Kufa.


Many people draped in Iraqi flags set US flags ablaze and some
stamped on US and Israeli flags painted on the ground with their
shoes, an act considered one of the worst insults in Arab
culture.


"In four years of occupation, our sons have been killed and women
made widows," cried Ahmed al-Mayahie, 39, a Shiite from the
southern city of Basra.


"The occupier raised slogans saying Iraq is free, Iraq is
liberated. What freedom? What liberation? There is nothing but
destruction. We do not want their liberation and their presence.
We tell them to get out of our land."


Lawmaker Falah Hassan Shanshil from Sadr's parliamentary bloc
said: "This crowd has come to reject the American occupation and
demand its withdrawal."


Some Sunni religious groups also joined the rally.


"This demonstration is a friendly message to unite Iraqis on one
commmon issue and that is end of occupation," said Abdul Qadir
al-Daim of the Iraqi Islamic Party, a powerful Sunni bloc.


Rally organisers distributed leaflets urging Americans and
Europeans to pressure their governments to end the bloodshed.


"These four years gave us nothing but daily humiliation and
harassment," the pamphlet said.


"Dozens are dying every day because of US interference in
security. The United States has created divisions between the
Iraqi people. We urge the people of the United States and Europe
to press their governments to end our torture and stop the
bloodshed."


The staunchly anti-American Sadr, who launched two bloody
rebellions against US forces in 2004, is now a powerful force in
the Shiite-led government with six ministers and 32 lawmakers.


On Sunday, he reiterated a call for Iraqis to unite against the
Americans and end fighting that had erupted on Friday between his
militiamen and security forces in the central city of Diwaniyah.


"Iraq has had enough bloodshed. The occupation forces led by the
biggest evil, America, are working to sow dissent either directly
or through its agents."


On April 9, 2003, US Marines pulled down the giant statue of
Saddam by a rope around the neck, in a premonition of his hanging
in December for crimes against humanity.


But gone are the euphoric cheers of "Good, Good, Bush" praising
US President George W. Bush for ousting the regime. Angry chants
of "Down with Bush" are a frequent background to brutal Shiite
and Sunni sectarian strife.


Since the March 2003 invasion, tens of thousands of Iraqis have
died in insurgent attacks and sectarian violence.


These years have also been brutal for US forces.


On Monday, the military reported the deaths of six more soldiers
in a series of attacks, taking its toll for April alone to 27 and
3,275 since the invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.

