

The West Indies and South Africa go into their World Cup Super
Eights match at the Grenada National Stadium Tuesday, both
knowing that a defeat could end their chances of reaching the
semi-finals.


South Africa's shock 67-run defeat against Bangladesh in Guyana
Saturday transformed them from one of the sides most likely to
reach the last four to a team hanging on to a slim hope of going
through.


The West Indies, meanwhile, are by captain Brian Lara's
admission, "in a crisis situation".


To be sure of reaching the semi-finals, both teams need to win
all three of their remaining matches, although it is possible
that two wins and a healthy run-rate could be enough.


Both South Africa and the West Indies have negative run rates so
would need some big wins to get through in the event of a tie.


South Africa captain Graeme Smith admitted the defeat against
Bangladesh had meant the loss of two points his team were banking
on.


"It's a big loss for us," he said.


But Smith said his team had the ability to bounce back.


"It's still in our control and the next three games are
important. We don?t want to be relying on other people to get us
through."


Smith said South Africa had failed in the basics against
Bangladesh.


"We put ourselves under pressure by not doing the simple things
right. We've got the players, we've got the team and we have to
show a bit of character."


Adding to the uncertainty ahead of the first match of the World
Cup to be played in Grenada is that a new pitch has been laid at
the National Stadium, rebuilt after the original Queen's Park
ground was devastated by the hurricanes of 2004 and 2005.


Lara said after his team's 113-run defeat by Sri Lanka in Guyana
last Sunday that his team were physically drained by having four
games on sandy outfields in ten days.


They will play South Africa after a break of nine days between
matches.


Some of the players took time off before reassembling in Grenada
and the team have been heavily criticised with Lara's captaincy
singled out for derision.


But they will be buoyed by their record against South Africa in
big tournaments, although in all matches between the two teams
South Africa have a big lead.


The West Indies knocked out South Africa in the quarter-finals of
the 1996 World Cup after their opponents had been unbeaten in
group matches.


Then they won the opening game of the 2003 tournament in South
Africa at the start of a sequence of events which saw the hosts
eliminated in the first round.


The West Indies beat South Africa on the way to winning the 2004
Champions Trophy in England and in their most recent clash won a
Champions Trophy semi- final in India last November when Chris
Gayle hammered an unbeaten century.


Gayle is one of the players who has yet to find form for the West
Indies in the World Cup.


South Africa have injury concerns over batsman Herschelle Gibbs,
who had to leave the field because of a calf strain during the
Bangladesh match, and all- rounder Andrew Hall, who was rested
because of what was described as a minor thigh strain.


The South Africans will have a selection dilemma if Hall
recovers.


Andre Nel, who replaced him Saturday, took a career-best five for
45 and was the only South African to perform to his best ability.
Among the disappointments were opening bowlers Shaun Pollock and
Makhaya Ntini.

