

A Taliban-style Islamic court in the Pakistani capital has issued
a fatwa against a female minister for posing in an "obscene
manner" with French paraglider pilots, a top cleric said Monday.


The government had no immediate comment on the fatwa, or Islamic
religious decree, issued against tourism minister Nilofar
Bakhtiar by the fundamentalist Red Mosque in Islamabad.


The move comes days after the top cleric at the mosque announced
the creation of the Sharia or Islamic court and threatened a wave
of suicide bombings if the authorities try to shut it down.


"The muftis (judges) issued a decree against tourism minister
Nilofar Bakhtiar when their attention was drawn towards some
pictures in which she appeared in an obscene and objectionable
manner with paraglider pilots in Paris," the mosque's deputy
leader deputy Abdul Rashid Ghazi told AFP.


"They have called on the government to punish and sack her from
the cabinet," he said.


The pictures, published in a local Urdu-language newspaper, show
Bakhtiar in brightly-coloured paragliding gear taking part in a
tandem glide during a trip to France and then hugging an
instructor upon landing.


The government has so far taken no action against the Red Mosque
despite its open defiance of the authorities by setting up a
parallel justice system and its promotion of "Talibanization".


Female students from a school attached to the mosque late last
month kidnapped an alleged brothel owner and made her publicly
repent. Their male counterparts briefly abducted two policemen at
the same time.


The mosque's baton-wielding devotees have also set up so-called
morality patrols telling local shops not to sell "un-Islamic"
music and movies.


They have occupied a nearby children's library since January in
protest at plans to demolish several illegally built mosques in
Islamabad.


Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf Friday said he would not
allow the radical students and their leaders to take the law into
their own hands, but did not say how he proposed to tackle them.


The fatwa against the Tourism Minister comes less than two months
after a woman provincial minister was shot dead by an Islamic
cleric in the eastern city of Gujranwala because she was not
wearing a veil.

