

The only woman among the 15 British naval personnel held by Iran
told Monday how she was forced to strip and her captors had
threatened that she might never see her baby daughter again.


But in a new round of the propaganda war between the two sides,
fought over the captives, Iran broadcast new footage of the
Britons playing table-tennis and watching an English football
game which it insisted showed they were well treated.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney and the youngest members of the 15
sailors and marines gave interviews with the British media after
being given special permission to sell their stories.


Turney, 26, told The Sun tabloid her interrogators taunted her
with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she said.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


For the first five days, Turney was also made to believe that the
other 14 men had gone home, and she was the only one left.


"I was thrown into a tiny little cell and ordered to strip off,"
Turney told the newspaper.


"They took everything from me apart from my knickers. Then some
cotton pyjamas were thrown in for me to wear and four filthy
blankets. The metal door slammed shut again."


The youngest of the captives, Arthur Batchelor, 20, said he was
also stripped to his underpants, left in solitary confinement for
several days ordeal, and an interrogator indicated that if he did
not co-operate, he would not see his family.


Following their capture on March 23, Batchelor said: "I was
frozen in terror and just stared into the darkness of my
blindfold. I could feel the emotion welling up inside me."


He added that he been berated for his youth and diminutive
appearance -- his captors called him "Mr Bean," after the
bumbling television character -- and one of his interrogators
"indicated I might never see my family again if I didn't go along
with what they told me to do."


"He told me, 'If you even survive this, what will you tell your
family?"


Turney said that soon after they were captured in the Gulf by
Iranian troops armed with AK-47s and a rocket propelled grenade
launcher, she mouthed to the group's leader, Captain Chris Air:
"Are they going to rape me?"


She also said that at one point she feared Iranian workers were
"making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing and
nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into my
cell to measure me up from head to toe with a tape."


Turney and Batchelor were among eight sailors and seven marines
held by Iran after it claimed they trespassed into its
territorial waters. Britain insists the group were conducting
routine anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced last Wednesday
that he was freeing the naval personnel as a "gift" to Britain.


In a bid to counter the reports of mistreatment, Iranian
television broadcast fresh footage that showed two sailors
playing table-tennis and a larger group playing chess on a
Persian carpet.


Other pictures showed them watching a football game between
Liverpool and Arsenal, laughing while sitting barefoot in
tracksuits on a rug and tucking into a meal of kebabs and soup.


"These pictures show the relaxation and freedom they enjoyed
during their detention period. This contradicts what they said
when they arrived home in Britain," said a newsreader.


"Tehran opened its arms and offered hospitality to the 15 British
sailors," added the newsreader.


The footage appears to have been taken at the same time as
photographs which were released the day before the surprise
announcement of their release.


British newspaper reports suggested the 15 could make up to
250,000 pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between them,
with Turney standing to net between 100,000 pounds and 150,000
pounds, sparking criticism from family members of British
personnel and politicians.


The Sun said it had paid her for the interview, without
specifying how much. It said Turney would donate a share of her
fee to a charitable fund for her ship, HMS Cornwall. It was
unclear if Batchelor had been paid.

