

United States-based Citibank will expand its offshore operations
after Monday's bid for Taiwan's Bank of Overseas Chinese (BOOC)
for 14.1 billion Taiwan dollars (426 million US dollars).


Citibank will acquire all 1.194 billion outstanding shares in
BOOC at 11.8 dollars per share through its subsidiary Citibank
Overseas Investment Corp, BOOC said in a statement filed to the
Taiwan Stock Exchange.


The merger, pending regulatory approval, was expected to be
completed in the second half of this year.


A group of major BOOC shareholders, including Polaris Securities
Co, Far Glory Life Insurance Co and APEX International Financial
Engineering Research and Technology Co had agreed to vote in
favour of the proposed transaction.


"The investment is expected to benefit Citibank's long term
development in Taiwan," it said.


The privately-run BOOC, founded in 1961, operates 55 branches in
Taiwan with 2,200 employees serving more than one million
customers.


After the acquisition, Citibank is expected to rank as the 13th
largest bank and largest foreign bank in Taiwan by raising the
number of its branches to at least 66 on the island.


Robert Morse, chief executive officer of Citi Markets and Banking
Asia Pacific, said in a separate statement the acquisition of
BOOC was a significant step in strengthening Citi's presence in
Taiwan.


"It reflects our ability and desire to complement our robust
organic growth plans in the Asia Pacific region with strategic
acquisitions, and to serve our clients better by expanding both
our domestic presence and product offerings."


Citi Taiwan country officer Morris Li said the acquisition
supports a long term growth strategy in Taiwan, to go deeper into
the local market and reach a broader base of customers across all
areas of banking.


Concord Securities analyst Allen Lin said the deal has been
widely expected in the market.


"The price tag of 11.8 dollars meets with market expectations. I
do not think the deal will boost buying interest too much in
local financial shares as it has been absorbed by the market,"
Lin said.


However, Lin said it was likely that foreign buyouts of local
financial institutions would not stop here.


"In particular, some small and medium sized banks, like BOOC,
need foreign operation and management know-how to turn around
their disadvantages amid fierce competition in the local banking
sector.


"More foreign mergers and acquisitions are expected to come," he
said.


In November 2006, Standard Chartered, the Britain-based emerging
markets bank, completed a tender offer to take over Hsinchu
International Bank for 1.2 billion US dollars.

