

Lewis Hamilton has not only achieved more in two Formula One
races than anyone before him but his stunning performance in
Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix has confirmed he is poised for
unprecedented global stardom.


The 22-year-old Briton, the first man of Afro-Caribbean descent
to race in Formula One, has finished third and second in his two
races to date.


But it is not just the results that have impressed seasoned
observers of the sport. It has been the sheer speed and quality
of his racing and a maturity that has set him apart from any
other rookie driver in modern times.


Above all, he has shown he can cope with all the pressures - and
at Sepang on Sunday he had to cope with sweltering conditions and
two Ferraris on his tail - and fight crisply and cleanly against
anyone when required.


In both the Australian and Malaysian Grands Prix, the Stevenage-
born Hamilton demonstrated his racing instincts and razor-sharp
reactions and cool mind at the first corner, both times improving
his position to set up a podium finish.


This ability to slice past rivals and anticipate their moves was
the foundation of the McLaren Mercedes-Benz team's first victory
- scored by leading driver and defending double world champion
Fernando Alonso, his first for the team - in 21 races since 2005.


And it left team chief Ron Dennis, a man who once paired the
brilliant Brazilian Ayrton Senna with French quadruple champion
Alain Prost, with his broadest beam of satisfaction in years.


"We are delighted really - understandably," he said. "But I don't
know where to start. To finish first and second you cannot really
better, but both drivers drove impeccably.


"Neither of them left the track and Lewis fought well and clean.
He played the pressure well with Kimi (Raikkonen) and he had
everything under control and deserved to finish second.


"I don't think anyone gifted anything to us today. We had good
strategy, good starts and ultimately we got the result that the
team and the drivers deserved. Lewis? I think the important thing
is just how clean his manoeuvres were. There was nothing untidy
about what he did.


"There was no wheel banging or anything, but by driving like that
it shows the other people with whom he is driving that he is
going to be decisive and committed. What impressed me most was, I
think, the opening laps.


"He was just very committed and clean. He could have gone
quicker, but that is the key, isn't it? The key is to finish and
get the best result you can. And it is not about by how much. So
to keep his driving tidy and look after the car and just do what
was necessary to come second displayed a level of professionalism
that you would not expect to find a guy in his second Grand
Prix."


Dennis added that he felt McLaren now had the momentum to
maintain their form at next weekend's Bahrain Grand Prix where
Ferrari were the fastest team in pre- season testing.


But Ferrari, chastened by the experience of seeing Brazilian
Felipe Massa outwitted by Hamilton into making errors and then
finish fifth, are adamant that they can bounce back.


Team chief Jean Todt said: "I think we will be competitive. Three
weeks earlier we were going to be unbeatable. We said it's not
like that. Now it seems that it's completely finished. It's not
completely like that either.         "Of course, we are
disappointed because after qualifying we expected a better result
and everybody could see that the race got compromised at the
start. Felipe did not do the best start he could have expected
and the McLarens both passed him.


"Felipe then went wide and he got passed by two cars and then we
couldn't manage to gain positions. We know that we were facing
very strong teams, which we know and simply, today, they were
better and they deserve their success. Next week, we will try to
do a better job."

