

Cash-strapped Zimbabwe is now forcing all motor-vehicle importers
to pay their excise duty in foreign currency, the state-run
Herald reported on Monday.


Finance Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi has ordered that the new
rule, which will cover all luxury goods, takes effect immediately
after declaring the change in a government gazette, according to
the newspaper.


"Payments of customs duty and value added tax on the importation
of any item of goods designated as luxury items shall be payable
in United States dollars, euros, or any other currency
denominated under the Exchange Control," Mumbengegwi was quoted
as saying.


The general rate of duty for cars ranges between 60 and 80
percent depending on the type of vehicle.


Previously importers paid for duty in local currency, making it
relatively cheap to import.


According to central bank figures, Zimbabweans have been spending
an estimated 400,000 US dollars importing an average of 80 used
vehicles a day from Britain, Dubai, Japan, Singapore and the
United States.


Since August last year, authorities have pegged the local unit at
250 Zimbabwe dollars to the United States dollar, yet in reality
it costs about 14,000 Zimbabwean dollars.


The used car industry had become one of the growing business
sector in the country.


In addition to duty calculated against the cost of the car,
freight and insurance, importers will also have to pay surtax and
value added tax.


Analysts say the latest government directive will make the cost
of importing vehicles more expensive.


"The government directive will result in all imported vehicles
being very expensive," one vehicle importer told AFP.


"Many people especially those who had already paid for their
vehicles will be badly affected by this policy shift."


The southern African country is in the seventh year of economic
recession characterised by high inflation, massive unemployment
and chronic shortages of foreign currency and basic goods like
fuel and the staple cornmeal.

