

Zach Johnson is no Tiger Woods, but the unheralded average guy
from rural Iowa is taking home a green jacket from the Masters
this week while superstar Woods walks away empty handed for once.


Johnson fired a three-under par 69 final round here Sunday to win
the 71st Masters by two strokes over 12-time major champion Woods
and South Africans Retief Goosen and Rory Sabbatini.


Playing alongside friend Vaughn Taylor, the 31-year-old US Ryder
Cupper finished 72 holes on one-over 289 to match the worst
winning score in Masters history. But it's still a winning score.


"Somewhere along the way he got it into another gear," Taylor
said. "If he's not Superman, who is he? Superman's brother
maybe."


Not even Clark Kent. For Woods, he was kryptonite.


"I'm Zach Johnson and I'm from Cedar Rapids, Iowa. That's about
it. I'm a normal guy," Johnson said. "I'm as normal as they come.
I love to play a game for a living. I appreciate it. I feel
honored to play golf for a living."


Johnson, who works with psychologist Morris Pickens, resists the
comparison to Woods, although he likened himself to David felling
Goliath this week.


"Obivously I have struggled. I feel like I'm where I need to be,"
Johnson said. "Comparing myself to arguably the most phenomenal
athlete that the world has ever seen is maybe a little bit
misleading.


"At the same time I felt like I'm good enough to take home a
green jacket. That's what I was trying to tell myself the whole
time and fortunately it went in my favor."


Johnson gave some credit to Pickens and their sessions together.


"He has helped me a lot," Johnson said. "We practiced a lot of
different scenarios and those situational practices I think
certainly helped me get to where I'm at right now."


Johnson's only other triumph came in 2004 at Atlanta, so he has
never won a PGA event outside Georgia in April. But that's not so
bad. Just ask Stuart Appleby, the Australian who led by a stroke
entering the final round.


"Zach was emotionally a lot sharper than everyone else and I
think there was an element of luck involved," Appleby said. "Zach
knew he had a sharper game, he knuckled down and got it done. The
course was ultimately the beast this week."


Johnson, whose parents still have the first check he won as a
professional, was on the developmental tour in 2001 when Taylor
got him a ticket to see the Masters during the week Woods
completed his "Tiger Slam" - never dreaming he would be the man
who denied Woods' chances to repeat the feat six years later.


"For the most part I just walked it. My mouth was agape," Johnson
said. "I was in Augusta. You don't see that on mini-tours."


Johnson, who was greeted by wife Kim and 14-week-old son Will at
the 18th green, nearly crushed his chances before the event even
began. He barely missed a chip- in Wednesday that would have won
the Par-3 Contest.


No Par-3 winner has ever won the Masters in the same year.


"I was kind of thinking I had a better chance of winning the
Par-3 than I did the tournament," Johnson said. "It's got to
happen at some point so let's try to win both. It was a long
chip."


And maybe the key stroke of the championship.

