

Europe's losing streak in golf's majors extended to 30 at the
Masters on Sunday as Zach Johnson grabbed a come-from-behind win
for the United States.


Entering the final day, there were bright hopes that the drought,
stretching back to Scotsman Paul Lawrie's playoff win in the 1999
Carnoustie British Open, could be ended.


Justin Rose and Padraig Harrington made up the penultimate
pairing ahead of Tiger Woods and Stuart Appleby, while Welshman
Bradley Dredge and Luke Donald were within striking range of the
leaders.


At the end of the day, Rose came closest standing in second place
just one stroke off the lead coming down the 17th.


But a wayward drive on that hole put paid to the Englishman's
hopes as he came in with a 73 and a tie for fifth place with
American Jerry Kelly on four-over 292.


Rose, who was joint leader after the first round, said he had
felt calm and relaxed all day and on the cusp of pulling off
something special.


"But the 17th was unfortunate because I haven't driven the ball
well on that hole all week," he said.


It was the closet Rose had come since his spectacular arrival on
the scene as a gangly teenager at the Royal Birkdale British Open
in 1998 when he tied for fourth as an amateur.


His showing at this Masters, he felt, was much more satisfying.


"The fourth at Birkdale as an amateur was just pure raw
amateurness coming through and I felt no pressure there, whereas
this feels more of a sustainable effort from me," he said.


"I really learned a lot about myself today and I really feel I
have what it takes to go on and win majors from here.


"Every time I made a bogey or a double bogey I bounced back. I
kept my head up, I kept grinding and I kept believing in myself."


Harrington, like Rose, got off to a tough start dropping two
strokes in the first four holes, but he hauled himself back into
contention with a tremendous eagle at the par-five 13th.


Bogeys at 15 and 16 though ended his hopes and the Irishman
finished on five over in a tie for seventh.


Harrington, though, was in upbeat mood.


"I will walk away from this tournament knowing I have a game
capable of winning the Masters so that is a positive note for
me," he said.


Englishman Paul Casey, who was touted as the best European hope
prior to the tournament, struggled to get back in touch with the
leaders after his hugely disappointing 77 on Saturday.


A one-under par 35 on the back nine was a strong finish to tie
for 10th, but Casey had no doubts about how he had performed.


"It was a disappointing week," he said.


"It was one of those where it could have been and should have
been better. There was a lot of really good golf in there at
times but too many mistakes.


"I have just got to get rid of those mistakes."


Donald's chances came to grief after an eagle on the eighth when
three times his approach to the elevated ninth green rolled back
to him, resulting a triple- bogey seven.


The Englishman came in with a 73, a seven-over total of 295 level
with Casey and regrets over not being aggressive enough with his
chipping.


"Ultimately I am a little disappointed," he said.


"I though it could be my year to win here. I felt good about my
game, but I wasn't getting enough putts in."


Donald fell shy of his tie for third place here in 2005, the best
performance by a European player since Jose Maria Olazabal won in
1999.


That triumph was the 11th in 20 years for European players a
sequence that started with Severiano Balesteros in 1980 and
carried on through Sandy Lyle, Bernhard Langer, Ian Woosnam and
Nick Faldo and Spain's Olazabal.


Harrington compared the task facing Europe's top golfers at the
majors to breaking the four-minute mile barrier in the early
1950s. Once it is broken the floodgates will open, he said.


But after Augusta 2007, the gates remain firmly closed as the
European shut-out notches up another degree.

