

With her bright clothes, mini-skirts and bizarre hairstyles, Hong
Kong tycoon Nina Wang always cut an impish and unlikely figure in
Asia's club of multibillionaires.


But Wang, who won a long and bitter legal battle for her late
husband Teddy's multibillion-dollar estate, was never one for the
conventions of the wealthy.


She preferred cheap brands and fried chicken to designer clothes
and five-star restaurants and -- despite a personal fortune
estimated at more than four billion US dollars -- always avoided
the usual trappings of the high life.


Wang and Teddy -- who was declared legally dead in 1999, nine
years after he was kidnapped and never heard from again -- were
so thrifty they bought cut-price tickets to shows.


Her frugality was widely documented by the Hong Kong media, who
nicknamed her "Little Sweetie" because her trademark pigtails
resembled a Japanese comic character.


Her death Tuesday at age 69, announced by personal assistant
Ringo Wong on Wednesday, robs Asia of one of its zaniest and
best-known characters whose exploits were tabloid fodder for
years.


Unlike most residents in designer-obsessed and shopaholic Hong
Kong, Wang rarely went to malls and had most of her clothes and
handbags made by friends.


When she did shop, she opted for factory outlets selling
discounted items. She eschewed costly beauty salons and used
ordinary cosmetics because the name brands were "too expensive,"
China Woman newspaper once noted.


She even admitted to Global Entrepreneur magazine that her
favourite food was American fast food such as KFC and McDonald's.


Her low-cost lifestyle kept her monthly expenditure below 3,000
Hong Kong dollars (385 US), China Woman said, although while
running her late husband's conglomerate Chinachem in the 1990s,
the firm was earning many times that every minute.


But Wang proved a shrewd businesswoman and power player on the
political scene.


After taking control of Chinachem she transformed it into a
multi-billion US dollar empire with more than 200 office towers
and 400 companies around the world.


Forbes magazine last year estimated her personal fortune at 4.2
billion US dollars, 154th in its ranking of the world's richest
people.


Despite her flamboyant dress sense, Nina was a workaholic, rising
early and often working past midnight. She kept a low profile and
rarely discussed her business investments.


"I don't have any time to spend my money," she was quoted as
saying by China Woman.


Rarely seen in public, she had a phalanx of 50 bodyguards because
she reportedly received regular death threats.


Wang had served on the elite selection committee that chooses
Hong Kong's leader and was a delegate to a top advisory body to
the Chinese government.


But her plan to build Hong Kong's tallest building, which she
wanted to name "Nina Tower", was scuppered by planning
authorities.


Born in Shanghai, Nina and Teddy were childhood friends. They
began dating at the age of 11 and married seven years later,
moving to Hong Kong in the 1950s.


Teddy built up Chinachem Group, mostly on real estate deals, but
his riches led to trouble. He was kidnapped in 1983 and only
released after the family paid a ransom of 11 million US dollars.


When he was kidnapped a second time in 1990, the family paid 60
million US dollars. But he was never seen again and his body was
never found.


Wang then took over Chinachem and threw herself into the job --
and the legal action brought by Teddy's elderly father Wang Din-
shin to take over the company he claimed she had fraudulently
inherited.


In 2005, Nina won the legal battle after the court overturned an
earlier judgment that she had forged Teddy's will shortly before
he disappeared.


She and Wang senior traded harsh accusations throughout the case.
He said she was an adulterer, while she said her late husband was
an opium user and womaniser.


The long-running legal saga featured all the elements of a TV
melodrama that kept the story on the front pages of Hong Kong's
newspapers for years.


Nevertheless, soon after it ended she agreed to be featured in a
Japanese comic book called "Nina Nina" based on her childhood
romance with Teddy.


She always said she would not have children, in order to avoid
the troubles she said her massive wealth could bring to the next
generation, and pledged to donate all her money to charity.

