

A French researcher is being held against his will in Iran after
police seized his passport while he was travelling in a province
bordering Pakistan and Afghanistan, the French foreign ministry
said Wednesday.


Stephane Dudoignon, who works for the National Center for
Scientific Research (CNRS), was briefly detained on January 30
during a trip to the southeastern Sistan-Baluchestan province.


No charges have been laid against him, but police have yet to
return his passport seized more than two months ago, said the
foreign ministry.


"We call on Iranian authorities to quickly find a solution
allowing Mr Dudoignon to leave Iranian territory," said foreign
ministry spokesman Denis Simonneau.


Le Monde newspaper reported that Dudoignon, who is married to an
Iranian but resides in France, was being held under de facto
house arrest in Tehran while authorities were investigating the
reasons for his trip to the sensitive area.


Dudoignon's case was raised with Iranian ambassador Ali Ahani,
who was called into the foreign ministry last week to also hear
about French concerns over the detention of 15 British sailors.


Iran captured the 15 navy and marine personnel on March 23,
accusing them of trespassing into its territorial waters. Britain
insists they were on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


France has called on Iran to release the sailors and expressed
its "solidarity" with Britain over the detention.


Dudoignon was arrested near Chabahar while taking photographs in
the street of a religious procession, the foreign ministry said.


A historian and expert on Islam, he had traveled to Sistan-
Baluchestan under a joint study program with Zahedan University
to carry out research on the Sunni minority and religious
schools, according to Le Monde.


The newspaper said Dudoignon was staying with his wife's family
in the capital, awaiting the return of his passport.


Le Monde reported that foreign ministry officials had for weeks
hoped to resolve the case quietly through diplomatic channels.


Another French national, Stephane Lherbier, was released on
February 25 after spending 18 months in prison for straying into
Iranian territorial waters during a fishing expedition.


The Frenchman was granted clemency by supreme leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei. German national Donal Klein, who was arrested along
with Lherbier, was released on March 12.


Both Germany and France -- two countries that have been at the
forefront of diplomatic efforts to solve the ongoing standoff
over Iran's nuclear programme -- had repeatedly called for the
men's release.

