

A long-running feud over a hoped-for move towards full democracy
in Hong Kong intensified Wednesday following a government
proposal that critics say will stifle reform.


Supporters of a swift transition to universal suffrage were
angered by two papers issued by minister Stephen Lam to an
official panel charged with drawing up a roadmap for political
change in the southern Chinese city.


They said the proposals -- among them that the panel deals
separately with the election of the chief executive and the
legislature -- would scupper hopes that Hong Kong people would be
voting by 2012.


"This is a conservative and a dangerous proposal," pro-democracy
lawmaker Lee Cheuk-yan told AFP.


Upheaval of the city's electoral system -- from one where leaders
are selected by a committee of elites to one of universal
suffrage -- is enshrined in the Basic Law constitution that came
into force when the former British colony reverted to Chinese
rule in 1997.


An election committee of fewer than 800 members currently
comprises the only people in the territory allowed to vote.


The government, backed by the city's Communist Party rulers in
the Chinese capital Beijing, has been accused by pro-reformers of
dragging its feet on the issue.


A special panel was established by Beijing-backed chief executive
Donald Tsang last year to draw up a timetable for reform.


Tsang, who was reselected as leader last month by the electoral
college of elites to a second five-year term, has promised a
solution to the decade-long row by the middle of this year.


Lam's guidelines also proposed that candidates for future
elections be selected by the electoral college.


Lee and the pro-democrats objected to that too.


"It would have the effect of screening out pro-democratic
candidates," said Lee.


"This is unacceptable. Tsang's promise to solve this issue
appears to have been a hollow one."


Lam responded to criticism Wednesday, saying the panel -- which
is made up mostly of government loyalists -- will also look at
proposals made by pro- democrats.


Among them is one put forward by former deputy leader Anson Chan,
who has become a figurehead for the democracy movement.


Chan said Wednesday she and the main pro-democracy political
parties had hammered out a common platform, calling for full
democracy at least by 2012, when the Basic Law states the next
chief executive and legislature must be chosen.

