

The failure of a general strike after the crushing of public
protests underlines the limited options open to opponents of
Zimbabwe's beleaguered President Robert Mugabe, analysts said
Wednesday.


A two-day job boycott called by Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions
(ZCTU) to protest the meltdown of the economy received a lukewarm
response as employees, worried about losing their jobs and
salaries, reluctantly went to work.


The action was meant to pressure the government to rein in the
staggering 1,730 percent inflation rate which has condemned at
least 80 percent of the population to poverty, as well as calling
for lower taxes and free antiretroviral drugs for people living
with HIV and AIDS.


Lovemore Madhuku, a political activist and law lacturer at the
University of Zimbabwe said Mugabe's opponents had fewer options
after government banned political rallies and launched a brutal
crackdown on the opposition last month and would have to plan
their future strategies in tandem.


"The days of the ZCTU on its own are over, the days of the
Movement for Democratic Change on its own are over, the days of
the National Constitutional Assembly on its own are over,"
Madhuku.


"The only option left is a broad programme which focuses on the
political challeges facing the country. Isolated protests like
the ZCTU stayaway will not work."


Mugabe in power since 1980 when Zimbabwe gained independence from
Britain, has come under growing domestic pressure to step down
but he has responded by cracking down hard on the main opposition
Movement for Democratic Change and other critics.


After political protests and rallies were officially banned in
large parts of the capital Harare in late February, the
opposition tried to circumvent the prohibition by holding a self-
styled mass prayer rally on March 11.


But when MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai and scores of supporters
and rights activists tried to take part in the rally, they were
arrested and then brutally assaulted by security forces.


Takura Zhangazha, a political commentator said Mugabe's opponents
would only make a serious impact if they formed an alliance.


"This is a critical and definitive moment for Zimbabwe and we
cannot afford not to work together," Zhangazha said.


Tsvangirai, a former head of the ZCTU, was not even in Zimbabwe
during the two- day general strike, choosing instead to travel to
neighbouring South Africa where he is trying to whip up
international opposition to Mugabe.


However the limits of lobbying for international pressure were
also exposed last week when a summit of regional leaders issued a
statement of solidarity with Mugabe and blamed Western sanctions
for the country's plight.


Zhangazha said protests by the labour unions would yield little
as the majority of those who still have work were self-employed.


"The larger part of the population operate market stalls and sell
various wares for a livinng so they cannot afford to lose a day
or two of their earnings. This makes it very diffifult for labour
to mobilise support."


Although offices and factories in Zimbabwe's two main cities were
open and running on Wednesday, the ZCTU was adamant the action
was a success and vowed to press on with the protest.


"This is just the beginning of things," ZCTU secretary general
Wellington Chibebe.


"We are going to have this kind of action every three months."


He said the strike call got a good response from industrial areas
adding that many workers were hounded by their employers and
police to go to work."


But government described the strike as a dismal failure.


Industry Minister Obert Mpofu said: "You cannot solve anything by
confrontational tactics. We as government have been receptive on
a number of issues they (ZCTU) have brought. They are keen on
physical confrontation which is detrimental.

