

The European Commission on Tuesday gave airlines six months to
better respect EU laws on passenger rights and threatened to step
up legal action against violators.


In a study into the application of rules on compensating air
passengers introduced two years ago, the Commission said steps
must be taken to ensure that airlines apply the measures
consistently and that countries enforce them.


"Although there is no doubt that air passengers enjoy better
protection today, we must make sure that airlines and member
states fully comply with their obligations," EU Transport
Commissioner Jacques Barrot said.


"The Commission will give them six months to make the air
passengers regulation work and will provide them with full
support in that process," he said in a statement.


Under the rules, compensation of up to 600 euros (800 dollars)
can be paid to passengers depending on a flight's distance, if
the flights are cancelled or the travellers are victims of over-
booking.


For late flights -- more than two hours for short-haul flights,
three hours for inter-EU country travel and more than four hours
for long-haul flights -- meals, lodging and a means of
communication must be provided if needed.


Commission documents show that national enforcement bodies in EU
member countries received more than 18,000 complaints from
February 2005, when the measures came into effect, to September
2006.


About a third of the complaints focused on delays while another
third involved cancellations. Of the total, only 14 percent of
cases were resolved and settled.


A study published in November by the European Consumer Centres
Network found that the airlines were badly implementing or
bending the new EU rules.


They highlighted parts which allow carriers to invoke
"exceptional circumstances" such as political crises, strikes or
bad weather as a reason not to compensate passengers.


In its report, the EU's executive body conceded that the measures
have been "imprecise" in certain areas, but maintained that there
had been "ineffective enforcement in some (EU) member states."


Over the next six months, the Commission will check at airports
whether airlines provide passengers with the information,
assistance and compensation required under the rules.


It will also see whether information is being provided to
passengers at check-in counters and if they are receiving written
notices detailing their rights when flights are disrupted.


The Commission said that if things do not improve, the measures
could be changed to guarantee that passenger rights were fully
respected and warned that it reserved the right to intensify
infringement procedures after six months.


The report noted that infringement procedures had already been
initiated against Britain, without providing details.

