

China's state-run trade union wants McDonald's and other fast-
food chains to make up wages for part-time staff who it claimed
were underpaid, state media said Wednesday.


The All-China Federation of Trade Unions made the call as an
investigation confirmed McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken and
Pizza Hut had underpaid part- time workers in the southern city
of Guangzhou, the China Daily said.


"A joint investigation (with) the labour authorities confirmed
media reports about the companies' unlawful practice," said Li
Shouzhen, a senior union official, according to the newspaper.


"The federation will uncompromisingly fight any practice that
violates workers' rights," he added.


Li said his federation had asked its branch in the southern
province of Guangdong to negotiate with the companies on behalf
of the 3,000-odd part-time workers, most of whom are college
students.


The New Express newspaper based in Guangzhou, capital of
Guangdong, reported last week the three companies were paying
part-time workers up to 40 percent less than the minimum wage of
7.5 yuan (97 cents) per hour.


It also accused the restaurants of demanding part-time employees
work full-time without corresponding benefits.


The case has attracted broad public attention and the local
labour authorities in Guangdong have rolled out a pay probe
across the whole province.


"Big companies are targeted more often by investigations into
illegal practices, because of their size and expectations they
follow rules more rigorously," said Li Hui, a law professor at
Shanghai's Fudan University.


"If a big Chinese company did the same thing, there would also be
public outrage," she said.


Meanwhile, Li, the union official, said his federation and the
Ministry of Labour and Social Security will jointly launch a
nationwide investigation next month on payment, minimum wages and
labour contracts in enterprises.


He also urged foreign companies to set up trade unions so that a
satisfactory wage system could be formulated.


Analysts said they believed the state-run trade union might
intend to take advantage of the sentiment stirred by the case to
have trade unions formed at large companies currently resisting
organised labour.


"Of course the (state-controlled union) wants to defend employee
rights, but there is also a political intention," said Michael
Zhang, an analyst with the Hong Kong-based China Labour Bulletin.


"That is to prevent workers from forming independent trade unions
... by organising them into those led by the (state-controlled
union)," he added.


Observers have pointed out the All-China Federation of Trade
Unions has direct interest in setting up as many branches as
possible as it its entitled to a regular fee from companies with
organised labor.


McDonald's and Yum! Brands, the owner of Kentucky Fried Chicken
and Pizza Hut, were not immediately available for comment when
contacted by AFP Wednesday.

