

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Wednesday he will this month make
his first visit as premier to the United States, where he faces
criticism over Tokyo's use of World War II sex slaves.


Abe will visit Japan's top ally on April 26-27 for a summit with
President George W. Bush at Camp David. He will then tour five
Arab countries -- Egypt, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.


"I would like to talk with the president about strengthening the
Japan-US alliance as Japan-US relations are the foundation of our
country's diplomacy and security," the premier told reporters.


Abe, who took office in September, goes to Washington just as
Congress considers a bill that would demand an apology from Japan
for enslavement of Asian women in war-time military brothels.


The conservative premier caused uproar last month when he denied
Japanese troops directly coerced the so-called "comfort women."


Abe has since stressed he stands by Japan's landmark 1993 apology
to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candour" on the issue in a
telephone conversation Tuesday, according to the White House.


"By way of precaution, I conveyed my real intentions to the
president because my remarks have not been accurately reported in
the media," Abe told reporters.


Chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki added that Bush
appeared to have "fully understood the prime minister's real
intentions on this issue."


Abe's predecessor Junichiro Koizumi was one of Bush's closest
international allies.


But Abe has pledged to diversify Japan's diplomacy. Since taking
office he has visited China and South Korea in a bid to repair
sour relations and has toured Europe, unlike many other premiers
who went to Washington first.


About his Mideast tour, Abe said, "I would like to hold frank
dialogue with the leaders of countries there and build the
foundation for mutual trust in order to contribute to the
region's peace and stability."


Energy-poor Japan depends on the Middle East for nearly all its
oil and gas needs.


Abe is considering making an unprecedented visit to Japanese air
defence forces in Kuwait engaged in airlift operations to help
Iraq's reconstruction efforts, Shiozaki said.

