

Angola was celebrating five years Wednesday since the end of its
brutal three- decade long civil war with veteran President Jose
Eduardo dos Santos identifying a "rebirth of hope" in the oil-
rich nation.


A national holiday has been declared to mark the anniversary of
the signing of a peace accord on April 4, 2002, between the
government and UNITA rebels which drew the line on a 27-year
conflict that claimed half a million lives.


The main celebrations were due to be held in the northern
province of Cabinda, where a regional insurgency has been
dampened by another peace deal signed by the government and the
main rebel group there last year.


Prime Minister Fernando da Piedade Dias dos Santos was set to
deliver the main speech to participants in the celebrations
before the national football team takes on the Republic of Congo
in a friendly international in Cabinda.


Services of thanksgiving were being held in churches across the
country, with the main event taking place in a sports stadium in
Luanda.


In a speech to a cross-party seminar designed to draw up a so-
called national consensus agenda, which wrapped up on Tuesday
night, the president said that the country was now entering a new
era.


"Moments of uncertainness and mistrust between ourselves have
been put behind us," said President dos Santos, who has been in
power since 1979.


"There is rebirth of hope, self-esteem and trust between
everyone. We desire a safe future that guarantees justice, well-
being and prosperity".


Angola's economy is experiencing a major boom, mainly thanks to a
sharp rise in oil exports, but the benefits have failed to
trickle down so far to the general population, 70 percent of whom
live on less than two dollars a day.


Reverend Luis Ngimbi, president of the Council of the Christian
Churches in Angola (CICA), said an end of hostilities on its own
was not enough for the country which only won independence in
1975 to forge a sense of unity.


"We will pray for spiritual and social peace which can make
Angola a real country," Ngimbi said as he arrived to officiate at
the service at the stadium in Luanda.

