

Glitzy American-style casinos, cheap shopping and family
entertainment are pulling millions of Chinese tourists to Macau,
making it the world's biggest gaming draw -- bigger even than the
legendary Las Vegas Strip.


Thanks to the relaxation of travel restrictions that once
confined Chinese to their own cities, the tiny southern territory
is now booming as tourist dollars sent economic growth rocketing
16.6 percent last year.


"I come to gamble -- what other reasons would I come here for?"
said Yang Kun outside Wynn Macau, one of a new breed of American
casino-hotels that has transformed this former Portuguese
enclave's once moribund gaming industry.


"I hope to win some money here," added Yang, who was visiting
with his elderly parents and young daughter on a day trip from
the southern Chinese city of Zhongshan.


Government figures released Tuesday confirmed what analysts had
predicted as far back as October, that Macau had overtaken the
Las Vegas Strip as the world's biggest casino draw.


Gross gaming revenues in 2006 at Macau's 22 casinos were
equivalent to 7.2 billion dollars, outstripping the 6.6 billion
dollars pulled in by the 40-odd gaming centres along Vegas'
famous boulevard, although it still lags behind the entire take
of the US city.


Tourist Yang is one of 12 million mainland Chinese who visited
Macau last year -- up from just over four million that came ten
years ago.


Mainlanders made up 60 percent of a record 22 million visitors
who entered the city of 450,000, a figure that tourism chiefs
expect will exceed 25 million this year.


Tourists' interest has been driven by a proliferation of
American-style style resorts that have opened up since the 2001
relaxation of casino ownership rules wrested a 40-year monopoly
on gaming from tycoon Stanley Ho.


Unlike casinos in Ho's days, the new venues offer more than just
gambling, boasting family entertainment centres, theatres, bars
and restaurants.


"Macau is fun because of the many casinos here -- but there are
also other attractions here and the good food," said Kelvin Yip,
the 43-year old of a Hong Kong trading company, who was chancing
his arm at the newest casino in town, the Grand Lisboa.


First-time visitor Mr Li, 20, a resident of southern China's
Zhuhai, a boomtown bordering Macau, was attracted by the
shopping, which boasts the stores of luxury brands like Louis
Vuitton.


"The living standard is so much higher in Hong Kong. Macau is
nearer and things are cheaper," he said.


Casinos like Sands Macau, which made history as the first
American casino in China when it opened in 2004, heave with
mainland gamblers 24-hours a day.


At its tables, the din of conversations in Chinese mandarin can
be heard above the whirring and bells of the slot machines and
the clack of gambling chips.


Middle-aged ladies busily serve tea, water and soft drinks to
punters as they sit hunched over the gaming tables.


A 42-year-old man surnamed Liu was a frequent visitor to the
territory and a gambling fanatic.


"I come here at least twice a week," said Liu, a resident of
southern Chinese city Guangzhou. "I enjoy going around all these
casinos.


"Even if I didn't come here, I would bet on Mahjong or cards back
home," said the unemployed Liu who claimed he loses 10,000-20,000
yuan (1,282-2,564 US dollars) a time but can't resist coming back
to try his luck.


"I only come here for a few hours at a time. This is like my
job," he said.


Macau's casino renaissance has been a boon for the government and
the people of the city -- casino tax revenues more than meet the
government's two billion dollars annual budget.


Not all residents are happy with the transformation, though.


"I don't think it's a good thing to have all these casinos here,"
said one lifelong resident who preferred not to give his name.


"I was once a gambler myself and lost thousands of dollars. I
wonder how much money these people really take home with them?"
he said.

