

German cycling team T-Mobile said Wednesday they were
"disappointed but not surprised" by revelations that blood bags
seized in a Spanish doping scandal were those of their former
riding star Jan Ullrich.


DNA tests on blood seized in the offices of Spanish doctor
Eufemiano Fuentes in 2006 were Tuesday linked by prosecutors in
Bonn to the former Tour de France winner.


The German becomes the first cyclist to be confirmed as being
linked to the blood doping ring investigated during Operation
Puerto.


"I'm disappointed that Jan has to finish his career in this way
but unfortunately not surprised," T-Mobile spokesman Christian
Frommert told the news channel N24.


"When we decided to pull Jan Ullrich from the team for the 2006
Tour de France, he insisted that contrary to elements which were
available to us that he had never been in contact with Fuentes.


"Information from prosecutors in Bonn proves the contrary," added
Frommert.


Ullrich retired from cycling in February, ten months after his
name surfaced in Operation Puerto, leading to the 1997 Tour de
France winner being excluded from last year's race and sacked by
T-Mobile.


He has denied using any banned substances.


Prosecutors in Bonn, meanwhile, dismissed allegations by
Ullrich's lawyers that the blood might have been tampered with.


"There is no sign of manipulation," said Friedrich Apostel, a
spokesman for the Bonn prosecutor's office which is investigating
the rider for possible fraud.


Apostel pointed out that he was still awaiting an official
response from Ullrich's lawyers.


"I'm very hopeful that the preliminary investigation in this case
can be concluded between now and the end of the year," said
Apostel.


Meanwhile, Frommert urged sporting authorities to test all other
riders whose names appeared on the list of alleged clients of Dr
Fuentes.


"The case of Ullrich proves that DNA comparisons are worth it,"
he added.


Ivan Basso, the 2006 Tour of Italy winner, was also implicated in
the Puerto affair and dropped by Danish cycling team CSC before
being authorised to race again by Italian sporting authorities.


He has since joined the American Discovery Channel team.

