

Poland has given "indications" that it could lift its veto on
opening talks between EU and Russia on a partnership pact,
European Commission spokesman Johannes Laitenberger said
Wednesday.


"The Commission has indeed received indications from the Polish
authorities that Poland is in a position to give its agreement to
the launching of negotiations," Laitenberger told journalists.


He added that Polish support would be "a supplementary
contribution to a global ... solution of the open questions
between the European Union and Russia."


For the last four months, Warsaw has vetoed opening talks between
the European Union and Russia on a new partnership agreement
because of a Russian ban on Polish meat and other food products.


Russia imposed the embargo in December 2005, accusing Polish
authorities of fraud in the implementation of food safety
standards.


But Poland argues that Moscow is playing politics because of
differences with the conservative government in Warsaw.


The European Commission has been trying to convince Russian
authorities to lift the ban, and the German EU presidency has
said it hoped to resolve the problem before the next EU-Russia
summit in Samara, eastern Russia on May 18.


At a meeting of EU ambassadors in Brussels Tuesday, Poland's
representative said Warsaw would be prepared to lift its veto for
the first time, a diplomat reported, on condition of anonymity.


But an agreement reached to do that would have to be officially
adopted by a meeting of EU ministers -- of any portfolio -- and
this cannot happen until doubts about the Russian meat embargo
are dispelled, the diplomat said.


In Warsaw Wednesday, Polish President Lech Kaczynski told
reporters: "We will lift our veto when we have guarantees that
the embargo will be lifted."


He did not elaborate.


Kaczynski also said he would discuss the issue later Wednesday
with Poland's prime minister, his twin brother Jaroslaw.


Russia had also threatened to broaden the embargo to ban EU
animal products from another five or six EU nations unless the
Europeans provided quality control papers for exports outside of
the EU by the end of March.

