

Greece will introduce tougher sports legislation on over 200 fan
clubs with most suspected of having links to hooliganism, a
government spokesman said on Thursday.


The measure, due to be introduced after Orthodox Easter on April
8, comes in response to the death of a 25-year-old fan last week
in a pitched hooligan battle ahead of a women's volleyball match
outside Athens.


"This means that 270 fan clubs across Greece will be disbanded
(until the new legislation takes effect)," government spokesman
Theodoros Roussopoulos said after a cabinet meeting on the issue.


"Most of these clubs were proven to have acted as nests of
violence, both inside and outside stadia," he said.


The announcement followed talks on Wednesday between Sports
Minister George Orfanos and team officials from football,
basketball and volleyball that decided the suspension of fan
clubs.


"They can recast themselves as walking clubs, but teams will no
longer give them match tickets," said Orfanos, according to media
reports.


Fan clubs dismissed the measure as a knee-jerk reaction.


"(The government) could also shut down petrol stations for
selling adulterated fuel," Dimitris Hatzichristos, head of the
largest supporters' club of AEK Athens, told Ethnos daily.


"We are legal associations recognised by court, we do not need
permission from the ministry of sports," said Thanassis
Pantelopoulos, chairman of the Greek fans' confederation.


The fan clubs will hold a meeting on April 11 to decide their
response to the measures, Pantelopoulos told Skai Radio.


He noted that hooligan violence in Greece is caused by "anger,
among other reasons."


"People go to matches to unwind, and they don't do it there, they
will do it at home...with their wives," he said.


The Greek government last week decided to suspend all team sport
matches until April 13 as a result of the fan's death, a tragedy
casting doubt on measures taken against the violence that has
plagued sport in the country for decades.


So far a mix of tougher laws and closer cooperation with major
clubs have not solved the problem.


Eight fans have been placed in pre-trial detention over the
showdown between some 300 supporters of Greek arch-rivals
Olympiakos Piraeus and Panathinaikos Athens, facing charges of
weapons possession and use of explosives.

