

France's presidential campaign is taking a nasty turn after
Socialist candidate Segolene Royal called frontrunner Nicolas
Sarkozy a "liar" in the heated runup to the vote, less than three
weeks away.


Royal let loose the latest salvo during a television interview
late Tuesday after Sarkozy complained that she had branded him
"disgraceful" for proposing the creation of an immigration and
national identity ministry.


"I never used such words. Mr. Sarkozy is lying. Is a liar
suitable for the office of presidency?" Royal said in the
interview with Canal+ television.


Royal insisted she had called the proposal for the new ministry
"disgraceful" and had not targeted the rightwing candidate
personally.


Royal's spokesman Vincent Peillon on Wednesday added fuel to the
fire, saying Sarkozy was "a liar, yes, and even a repeat offender
for lying."


The tougher tone came as the leading contenders in the April 22
race were gearing up for a no-holds-barred battle to the finish,
campaigning hard in the provinces and major cities, publishing
books and election manifestos.


It followed a heated exchange last week over rioting in a Paris
train station that the Socialist opposition held up as proof that
Sarkozy's tenure as interior minister had been a failure.


Paris' Gare du Nord train and subway station was rocked by seven
hours of rioting last Tuesday after police arrested a fare-
dodger, reviving memories of the three weeks of suburban violence
that erupted in late 2005.


Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP), defended the police in the clashes and suggested
that Royal was siding with "fraudsters, cheats and people who are
dishonest."


Royal shot back, saying that Sarkozy had "lost his cool" and
"insulted" her, making clear that this was conduct unbecoming for
a future president.


"This would mean that tomorrow, if Mr Sarkozy is unfortunately
elected, he could start insulting the other heads of state and
government who do not think like him," she said.


With 18 days to go before the first round of voting, polls show
that Sarkozy is in the lead, with Royal as a close second.


But a new BVA poll published Thursday showed that 31 percent of
French voters would prefer to see Royal win the presidency,
compared to 29 percent for the rightwing candidate, highlighting
the unease that Sarkozy's tough-talking persona inspires among
voters.


The hyper-charged former interior minister who is calling for a
"break" from France's politics of the past gets high marks in the
polls as a candidate of presidential stature, but voters also say
he worries them.


In the predominantly-immigrant suburbs, Sarkozy is considered an
enemy of Arab and African residents for referring to young
troublemakers as "rabble" who should be "hosed down."


While all leading contenders in the field of 12 candidates have
made a visit to the suburbs a necessary stop on the campaign
trail, Sarkozy has mostly stayed away.


Royal and other Sarkozy rivals have seized on his status as a
persona non grata in the suburbs as proof that he lacks the
ability to unite the nation.


"We need a president who is able to help the French live
together," said centrist Francois Bayrou, who holds the third
spot in the race.


"I will be the president of the Republic who will restore
confidence among the citizens and who will stop pitting them
against each other," said Royal.


A runoff vote is scheduled for May 6 as no candidate is expected
to win an outright majority in the first round.

