

Iran applauded Wednesday a "change of tone" from Britain after
talks with a top advisor to Prime Minister Tony Blair, raising
hopes of a solution to the 13-day crisis over its seizure of 15
British sailors.


As both sides adopted noticeably friendlier rhetoric, Syria --
Iran's top ally in the region -- said it was mediating in the row
that has further damaged ties between Tehran and the West already
frayed by the nuclear standoff.


Britain has called for more direct talks with Iran to secure the
release of the 15 sailors captured in the northern Gulf on March
23.


"London's action in changing its propaganda tone regarding the
issue of the arrest of the British sailors in our territorial
waters is appropriate," Iran's parliament speaker Gholam Ali
Hadad Adel said.


"The effective measures taken by the British in the past few days
make the tone of their rhetoric more logical and instead of
controversy they are inclined towards negotiations," he added.
"This is a more appropriate action."


His comments came after Iran's top security official Ali Larijani
held talks with Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Sir Nigel
Sheinwald late on Tuesday.


Downing Street issued an upbeat statement after the talks, saying
Britain favoured direct talks with Iran to resolve the standoff
and Blair believed Iran wanted to solve the issue swiftly.


"There have been further contacts between the United Kingdom and
Iran this evening (Tuesday), including directly with Dr Ali
Larijani," Downing Street said in a statement.


"On the basis of these (contacts), the prime minister believes
that both sides share a desire for an early resolution of this
issue through direct talks.


"The prime minister remains committed to resolving this by
diplomatic means," it said.


It also said Britain has proposed "direct bilateral discussions
and awaits an Iranian response on when these can begin."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due at 1200 GMT to hold
a keenly awaited news conference to mark the Persian New Year
when he is expected to make comments on the crisis.


However despite hopes that the 14 men and one woman could soon be
free, British Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett urged people to
be "cautious in assuming that we are likely to see a swift
resolution to this issue."


Iran has insisted that they key to resolving the crisis is an
admission from Britain that the sailors and marines did intrude
into Iranian territorial waters when they were seized on March
23.


"The British should confess that they made a mistake and they
should no longer commit such moves," said Hadad Adel.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters but Iran says the sailors'
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices show they intruded on
Iranian waters.


The softening of tone also coincided with the release in Baghdad
of an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in Iraq in early February. Iran
had blamed US forces in the country for the abduction.


Iranian state media also said five Iranian officials captured by
US forces in northern Iraq in January and accused of seeking to
stir trouble were expected to receive their first visit by an
Iranian diplomat.


Asked if the five Iranians should be freed to favour a possible
release of the Britons, US President George W. Bush insisted
there should be no "quid pro quos".


Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem Muallem told Kuwait's Al-
Anbaa newspaper that Damascus was mediating in the crisis.


"Such a solution requires quiet diplomacy and Syria is
undertaking such diplomacy between the two countries," he said.


New still images were released on Tuesday of the detained sailors
and marines, showing them "relaxing" in tracksuits and playing
chess, a change from the previous string of video "confessions."


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


In a separate affair, local officials denied US reports that a
missing former US FBI agency had disappeared while on a private
visit to Iran's southern resort island of Kish, state media
reported.

