

The German-US auto giant DaimlerChrysler officially confirmed
Wednesday that it is in talks to sell its troubled US unit
Chrysler.


"I can confirm that we are talking with some of the potential
partners who have shown a clear interest," DaimlerChrysler chief
executive Dieter Zetsche said in a speech prepared for delivery
at the car maker's annual shareholder meeting here.


But he continued: "It is also true that we need to keep all
options open and that I cannot disclose any details because we
need to have the maximum scope for manoeuvre."


Management needed "the greatest possible flexibility so that we
can identify and implement the best possible solution," Zetsche
said.


Speculation has been rife that Chrysler would be put up for sale
after it turned in operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5
billion dollars) last year, despite repeated restructuring over
recent years.


Chrysler is suffering from high fuel prices and a consumer shift
away from lucrative gasoline-guzzling trucks and large sports
utility vehicles.


In mid-February, DaimlerChrysler unveiled plans to slash 13,000
more jobs and close two more plants at its loss-making US
subsidiary in what observers believed could be a last-ditch
attempt to turn the unit around.


The idea of a sale appealed to investors -- DaimlerChrysler
shares rose 1.1 percent to intraday high of 62.68 euros at the
start of trade on the Frankfurt stock exchange. But they
subsequently fell back to show a loss of 0.65 percent at 61.60
euros.


The main aim was to steer Chrysler back to profit, Zetsche said.


"This means, that after reviewing all options, we will finally
decide for the option that best meets our criteria," the CEO
said.


"So far, I am satisfied with the process. Everything is going to
plan."


A number of big institutional shareholders, such as Union
Investment and SEB, appear to be losing patience and want
Chrysler to put on the block as quickly as possible.


None of the other world's leading car makers appear to be
interested in Chrysler, however. The daily Detroit News reported
that only three candidates had submitted a firm offer by last
week, private equity firms Cerberus and Blackstone, and Canadian
car parts maker Magna, which is also likely to team up with an
investment fund.


The newspaper said DaimlerChrysler was aiming to start exclusive
talks with a potential buyer by the end of this month, and hoped
to raise around eight billion dollars (six billion euros) from
the sale.


Meanwhile, DaimlerChrysler's outgoing supervisory board chief
Hilmar Kopper said in a newspaper interview Wednesday that he
could imagine Chrysler remaining within the group.


"There is of course a chance that Chrysler is still in the group
in two years," Kopper told the daily Die Welt.


Kopper, who was scheduled to retire as supervisory board chief at
the AGM on Wednesday, defended the decision to merge Daimler and
Chrysler in 1998.


"Many of the arguments in favour of a merger back then are still
valid today," he said.


And Kopper rejected suggestions that the tie-up had destroyed
value.


"We created value for the shareholders. We were better than half
of the DAX companies if you include the dividends," he said.

