

Angola celebrated five years Wednesday since the end of its
three-decade long civil war, with the government hailing the era
of peace as an opportunity to tackle the oil-rich nation's deep-
rooted poverty.


A national holiday was declared to mark the anniversary of the
signing of a peace accord on April 4, 2002, between the
government and UNITA rebels which drew the line under a 27-year
conflict that claimed half a million lives.


The main celebrations were held in the northern province of
Cabinda, where a regional insurgency has been dampened by another
peace deal signed by the government and the main rebel group
there last year.


Prime Minister Fernando da Piedade Dias dos Santos delivered the
main speech to participants in the celebrations before the
national football team was due to take on the Republic of Congo
in a friendly international in Cabinda.


Services of thanksgiving were being held in churches across the
country, with the main event taking place in a sports stadium in
Luanda.


The prime minister said that the prevailing peace of the last
five years had enabled the government to begin to address the
country's social ills.


"April 4 has become synonomous with peace, justice, unity and
reconciliation," he said in his speech which was broadcast on
state radio.


"April 4 has enabled the government to create an environment in
which we have been able to embark on a programme of
reconstruction and improve the living conditions of the
population."


Angola's economy is experiencing a major boom, mainly thanks to a
sharp rise in oil exports, but the benefits have failed to
trickle down so far to the general population, 70 percent of whom
live on less than two dollars a day.


The prime minister said that the government was determined to
improve the lot of the general population.


"The government has defined reconstruction, and the eradication
of hunger and poverty as its main objectives."


In a speech to a cross-party seminar designed to draw up a so-
called national consensus agenda, which wrapped up on Tuesday
night, the president struck a similar vein as he said that the
country was now entering a new era.


"Moments of uncertainty and mistrust between ourselves have been
put behind us," said President dos Santos, who has been in power
since 1979.


"There is rebirth of hope, self-esteem and trust between
everyone. We desire a safe future that guarantees justice, well-
being and prosperity."


Reverend Luis Ngimbi, president of the Council of the Christian
Churches in Angola (CICA), said an end of hostilities on its own
was not enough for the country which only won independence in
1975 to forge a sense of unity.


"We will pray for spiritual and social peace which can make
Angola a real country," Ngimbi said as he arrived to officiate at
the service at the stadium in Luanda.


The state media hailed the progress made by the government in the
last five years, saying that 4.3 million internally-displaced
people had been resettled and more than 400,000 refugees had
returned to their homeland.


However the official news agency Angop acknowledged that much
work lay ahead for peace to be consolidated, including "the
conclusion of the demining process, combatting poverty and
holding of general elections".


Millions of landmines are still littered across the country, one
of the factors cited by the government over the decision to delay
parliamentary elections until next year and presidential
elections in 2009.

