

Five decomposed bodies found in a house in a provincial Japanese
city were from a family who believed in resurrection of the dead,
police said Wednesday.


One of the bodies may have been rotting for as long as 20 years
as part of the family's shamanistic beliefs, reports said.


Acting on inquiries from neighbours, police found the bodies,
either skeletonised or mummified in varying stages of
decomposition, in three rooms of the house in Omuta, a former
coal mining town on the southern island of Kyushu.


The dilapidated one-storey wooden house in a residential area
belonged to Shigeo Nagae, who would be 99 years old if he were
alive.


But his eldest son, 69, has told investigators that the bodies
belonged to Shigeo, his wife and three children, according to
Mitsugu Takei, a police spokesman.


"Our parents used to say that we will come back to life without
fail after we die. So I believe that they will come back," the
eldest son, whose name was withheld, was quoted by Takei as
saying.


The bodies bore no noticeable injuries and the deaths could be
attributed to natural causes, Takei said by telephone.


Press reports, quoting Nagae's neighbours, said the parents used
to practice a sort of shamanism as "the sounds of drums and
singing voices" came from the house in the morning and at night
until about 10 years ago.


Neighbours gradually saw less of the family over the years,
reports said.


The eldest son and two daughters have visited the house once in a
while and sprayed "pungent-smelling disinfectant" in the garden,
the Mainichi newspaper said.


The father died about 20 years ago, 10 years before his wife
Fumiko, the eldest son was quoted as saying. Two daughters and a
son died one after another over some five years.


"His allegations must be verified by postmortems," the police
official said.


There have been several cases in recent years in Japan in which
shamans or cult leaders were convicted of manslaughter or
abandonment of bodies following the deaths of followers who were
found in a skeletonised or mummified state.


A female shaman was sentenced to death for battering two men and
four women to death with a drum stick in an "exorcism" in 1995 in
the rural town of Sukagawa. The victims' decomposed bodies were
found in the shaman's house.

