

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Wednesday that Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad had assured her he was ready for peace
talks with archfoe Israel.


She also said she had transmitted a message from Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert in which he said he was ready to resume
negotiations, which broke off in 2000 largely over the fate of
the strategic Golan Heights.


"We were very pleased with the reassurances we received from the
president that he was ready to resume the peace process," she
told reporters after her meeting with Assad that has infuriated
the White House.


"He's ready to engage in negotiations (for) peace with Israel,"
she said.


"The meeting with the president enabled us to communicate the
message from Prime Minister Olmert that Israel is ready to engage
peace talks as well," Pelosi said.


"We expressed our interet in using our good offices in promoting
peace between Israel and Syria."


Pelosi said she undertook the trip to follow up on the
recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group which had
urged the US administration to engage Syria in solving the
conflict in Iraq.


The leading US Democrat said she also raised her "concern" about
alleged support for militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah and
infiltrations into neighbouring Iraq.


"We called to the attention of the president our concerns about
fighters crossing the Iraq-Syria borders to the detriment of the
Iraqi people and our soldiers," she said.


"With all the officials whom we met, with the foreign minister,
the vice president and the president, we expressed our concern
about Syria's connection to Hezbollah and Hamas," she added.


She said she also voiced her "concerns about the soldiers
kidnapped by Hezbollah and Hamas."


The Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah set off a devastating
34-day war with Israel last year after capturing two soldiers in
a cross-border raid, while gunmen linked to Hamas were involved
in the capture of another Israeli soldier at an army post on the
Gaza border.


A member of Pelosi's delegation, Republican Representative David
Hobson, said the talks with the Syrian leadership were a "candid
dialogue."


"The visit in Syria transcends our conviction that dialogue with
Syria was necessary and useful," he said.


Israel captured the Golan Heights in 1967 and annexed the
strategic plateau in 1981.

