

Fidel Castro on Wednesday warned that US energy policies could
reap a global "holocaust", in his second newspaper article in a
week, suggesting the convalescing Cuban leader is back to his
combative self.


Writing in Granma newspaper, Castro said promoting the use of
biofuels would divert food needed by poor people around the world
just to satsify the demands of drivers in wealthy countries.


"The worst could be yet to come: a new war to ensure gas and oil
supplies, which could place the entire human race into a total
holocaust," Castro said.


The article, entitled "The Globalization of Genocide," condemned
US President George W. Bush for pushing the global production of
crop-based alternative fuels.


It continued the theme of a March 29 piece in which Castro said
Bush's promotion of ethanol fuels was condemning "more than three
billion people" to premature starvation.


It was also another sign that the iconic 80-year-old Cuban leader
could be on the road to recovery after eight months out of the
public eye.


Castro temporarily handed over power last July to his brother
Raul, the country's defense minister, while recovering from a
gastrointestinal operation.


In the Granma article on Wednesday, Castro took note of recent
discussions Bush held with Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, in which the subject of promoting biofuels from food crops
arose.


"This colossal waste of cereals for producing fuel ... will save
the rich countries less than 15 percent of the annual fuel
consumption of their voracious automobiles," he wrote.


"Who and where is going to supply the more than 500 million
tonnes of corn and other cereals that the United States, Europe
and the rich countries need to produce all the ethanol that the
big North American companies demand?


"Where will the poor countries of the Third World obtain the
minimal resources to survive?" Castro asked.


"Bush in Camp David declared his intention to apply this formula
around the world, which means nothing else but the globalization
of genocide," he said.


The two articles over the past several days have come after an
increase in comments by Cuban officials and Castro's friends that
he is recovering from his ailments, the nature of which has never
been completely clear.


Several officials have said over the past month that they
expected him to come back to work soon, and even stand for re-
election to the presidency in early 2008.


The Cuban strongman, who has led the Caribbean island for nearly
five decades, wrote in Granma that he had been spending his
recuperation period thinking about global problems like energy,
the environment and the survival of man.

