

Bones that have been venerated as the holy remains of Joan of
Arc, France's patron saint, are forgeries, according to a French
scientist who says the relics came from an Egyptian mummy.


Joan was burned at the stake when 19 years old in Rouen,
Normandy, in 1431 for heresy after leading a French revolt
against the occupying English.


The relics were found in 1867 in a jar in the attic of a Paris
pharmacy, bearing the inscription, "Remains found under the stake
of Joan of Arc, Maid of Orleans."


They are housed in a museum at Chinon, centre-western France,
that is owned by the Archdiocese of Tours.


But their authenticity had been doubted, as the English ordered
Joan's body to be reduced to ashes and cast into the Seine in an
attempt to prevent the emergence of a cult.


In a Paris-datelined report released on Wednesday by the British
science journal Nature, forensic scientist Philippe Charlier said
he had carried out a battery of tests on the relics and concluded
they came from an Egyptian mummy.


The samples included a charred-looking human rib, chunks of
apparently burnt wood, a 15-centimetre (six-inch) piece of linen
and a cat femur, a finding that is consistent with the mediaeval
practice of throwing a cat on to the pyre of suspected witches.


Electron microscope, pollen analysis and three types of
spectrometry were harnessed.


Carbon-14 analysis dated the remains to between the third and
sixth centuries BC, and the chemical analysis of the rib, femur
and black chunks of wood matched those from Egyptian mummies from
the period, Nature said.


The black substance coating the rib and wood is consistent with
an embalming mix used in mummification, comprising wood resins,
bitumen and malachite. In addition, the linen had a coating
characteristic of mummy wrappings and was found to contain large
amounts of pine pollen.


"Pine trees did not grow in Normandy at the time that Joan of Arc
was killed, but pine resin was used widely in Egypt during
embalming," the report said.


Charlier, a forensic scientist at the Raymond Poincare Hospital
at Garches, near Paris, could not be immediately reached to
confirm the report.


Nature added that Charlier's team, in an unusual move, also
enlisted the help of leading "noses" in the French perfume
industry to help his investigation.


These experts in scents sniffed the remains and other samples
from Charlier's lab without being told what the substances were
or being allowed to confer.


Both smelled hints of "burnt plaster" and "vanilla" in the
relics. The vanilla scent was a useful tip, as this molecule is
produced when a body decomposes -- and so would occur in a mummy
-- but not in someone who was burned.


Initially a figurehead who revealed herself as a true military
leader, Joan of Arc led the French armies in lifting the English
siege of Orleans in 1429, the first of a chain of swift victories
that ended with the coronation of Charles VII.


Wounded in the battle for Paris, she was captured and sold to the
English, to be convicted of heresy and burned at the stake. The
body was ordered to be burned twice more, and the ashes cast into
the River Seine, in order to prevent any relics being seized.


She was rehabilitated by the Church a quarter-century later, and
canonised in 1920.


In 2005, Charlier, carried out an investigation into Agnes Sorel,
France's first officially recognised royal mistress, a woman of
legendary beauty and influence.


He determined that Sorel, who died in 1450 as consort of King
Charles VII, was killed by mercury poisoning, but was unable to
confirm suspicions that she had been murdered.

