

World oil prices retreated further Wednesday on hopes that
Britain and Iran would find a diplomatic solution to a stand-off
sparked by Tehran's detention of 15 British sailors, dealers
said.


In London early on Wednesday, the price of Brent North Sea crude
for May delivery sank 52 cents to 67.29 dollars in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dropped 63 cents to 64.01 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


"The market is trending down, reflecting the easing tensions with
regard to the situation in Iran," said analyst Victor Shum at
energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"The level of rhetoric between the UK and Iran has been lowered
and there are expectations that a peaceful diplomatic solution
will come about."


Over the past week, crude futures have touched seven-month peaks
as traders fretted over supply concerns in Iran, which is the
world's fourth biggest producer of oil.


Traders fear that the Islamic republic might disrupt its precious
energy exports should the crisis with Britain worsen. Iran is
already under the international spotlight over its disputed
nuclear ambitions.


On Monday, oil prices in London had struck 69.58 dollars -- the
highest level since September 1, 2006.


However, prices tumbled Tuesday on the prospect of an end to the
sailor crisis.


Iran on Wednesday welcomed a "change of tone" from Britain in the
13-day crisis after British Prime Minister Tony Blair expressed
hope direct talks could solve the standoff.


The new comments marked a distinct moderation in rhetoric between
the two sides, raising hopes that there could be an end in sight
to the row that has further poisoned relations between Iran and
the West.


"London's action in changing its propaganda tone regarding the
issue of the arrest of the British sailors in our territorial
waters is appropriate," Iran's parliament speaker Gholam Ali
Hadad Adel said.


Britain has maintained that the group were carrying out routine
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters when they were seized
on March 23.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


Meanwhile on Wednesday, the market was awaiting the US Department
of Energy's weekly snapshot of American energy reserves, which is
forecast to show that supplies of gasoline or petrol fell last
week.

