

Gunmen wearing police uniforms seized 22 shepherds and their
sheep in southern Iraq on Wednesday in the latest mass abduction
of Shiite workers by presumed Sunni insurgents.


Travelling in three cars, the kidnappers moved in on the
shepherds in an isolated desert area north of the Shiite shrine
city of Karbala and took their truck, herd and weapons, said
Karbala police spokesman Rahman Mushawi.


The shepherds were forced into the vehicles at gunpoint and
driven off along the road towards the neighbouring Sunni province
of Al-Anbar, a hotbed of Al-Qaeda and Sunni insurgents opposed to
the Shiite-dominated government and its US backers.


The spokesman said the kidnapping was witnessed by Mohammed Abdul
Kadhon, a brother of one of the snatched shepherds, who alerted
the police.


Kadhon told officers that the shepherds were being taken to
Ameriyat al- Fallujah, a town where Al-Qaeda fighters have
clashed with Sunni insurgents opposed to their fundamentalism.


Karbala police denied any responsibility for the abduction, the
latest carried out by gunmen wearing police or military uniforms.


"This is a organised terrorist act that has no link to police of
Karbala. We have warned them (shepherds) not to cooperate with
police who do not have badges," Mushawi said.


Criminal, sectarian and politically motivated abductions are rife
in Iraq, in which untold numbers of snatched Iraqis are never
seen again.


In Iraq's chilling sectarian conflict, many bodies are never
found or taken to city morgues for certification, especially
those who have been kidnapped.


Earlier this week, gunmen seized and killed 21 Shiite workers
travelling home from Baghdad. Their bodies were found one day
later in the province of Diyala, northeast of the Iraqi capital.


There has been no word on another nine Shiite workers abducted in
similar circumstances a day later in Diyala.


AFP is also without news of Iraqi employee Salah Jali al-
Gharrawi, a year after he was kidnapped at gunpoint in Baghdad on
his way home from work.


In northern Iraq on Wednesday, gunmen ambushed and killed five
Iraqi workers from a power plant as they came off night shift and
were travelling home south of the oil city of Kirkuk, their boss
said.


The five -- all Sunni Arab men -- were gunned down as their bus
headed to the town of Hawija, said Jameel Abdallah, the power
plant's director.


Insurgent attacks have been on the increase in Kirkuk, which sits
on a third of Iraq's oil resources and is home to a fractious
ethnic and sectarian mix.


Longstanding Kurdish demands for the city to be incorporated into
their autonomous region in northern Iraq -- and strongly resisted
by Arabs -- are due to be put to a referendum before the end of
the year.


Two days after an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in Iraq was
released, Tehran's official IRNA news agency reported that an
Iranian diplomat is to have a first meeting with five Iranians
who were seized by US forces in Iraq last January.


The United States accuses the men of aiding anti-US insurgents
while Iran insists they are diplomats working for a "consulate".


"Thanks to the efforts of Iran's diplomats in Baghad, the
cooperation of Iraqi officials and the UN representative, it is
expected that a representative of the embassy will meet the
(detained) diplomats," an Iranian source, which was not
identified, told IRNA in Baghdad.


There was no immediate confirmation of the report from either the
Iranian embassy or the US military in Baghdad.


In Baghdad, an overnight curfew will be shortened by three hours
from Wednesday as a massive Iraq-US military crackdown pushes
into an eighth week in a bid to wrest back control of the capital
from insurgents and militias.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has ordered the strict curfew -- in
force for well over a year -- to begin at 10 pm (1800 GMT)
instead, General Qassem Ata al- Moussawi said overnight.

