

Asian stocks took their lead from Wall Street and rallied to a
sharply higher close on Wednesday with Sydney, Seoul, Shanghai,
Singapore and Jakarta ending the day at record highs.


Wall Street powered higher Tuesday as crude oil prices dipped on
signals of easing tensions between Iran and Britain and amid a
hint of some improvement in the troubled US housing market.


Both issues also augured well for Asia Pacific markets with most
benchmarks outperforming the Dow Jones which closed up 1.03
percent.


Tokyo, benefitting from further weakness in the yen, shone on the
day with a 1.74 percent gain and this added some extra gloss to
regional trade.


Seoul surged 1.34 percent on optimism after South Korea signed a
free trade agreement with the US. Sydney leapt 1.39 percent after
the central bank defied expectations, and decided not to increase
interest rates.


Jakarta was up 1.45 percent and Bangkok rose 1.02 percent with
investors in both markets anticipating interest rate cuts.
Thailand also rallied after its government signed a trade pact
with Japan.


The mood was equally buoyant in Hong Kong, up 1.03 percent, in
Manila which rose 1.42 percent and in Taipei, up 0.90 percent.
However gains in Wellington and Shanghai were capped by profit
taking.


TOKYO: Share prices closed up 1.74 percent, rallying for a second
straight day as gains on Wall Street and a weaker yen cheered
investors.


Dealers said buyers were also encouraged by a dip in crude oil
prices on signs of easing tensions between Iran and Britain.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 300.04 points to 17,544.09. Volume was
2.31 billion shares against 2.34 billion on Tuesday.


Buying interest was spurred by gains on Wall Street on Tuesday
and a weaker yen, said Ryuta Otsuka, strategist at Toyo
Securities.


"In addition, foreign investors, who are finally coming back to
the market, supported the buying," Otsuka said.


"But it is too early to say that the market is back on the upward
trend. It is still in the process of returning to the level
before the end-February world stock market sell-off," he added.


Kazuhiro Takahashi, equity general manager at Daiwa Securities
SMBC, said the market was also helped by the drop in crude oil
prices as tensions eased in the stand-off between Britain and
Iran over captive British military personnel.


"Investors' risk appetite has increased," he said, "This has
softened the yen, helping to make investors more optimistic about
exporters' earnings."


Kenwood Corp jumped nine yen or 5.2 percent to 181 after it said
it will acquire 100 percent of Zetron Inc of the US for an
undisclosed amount to enhance its communication system business.


Isuzu Motors rose 15 yen to 614.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed sharply higher, gaining 1.03
percent in a holiday-shortened week, with property stocks leading
gains on expectations of strong housing sales during the five-day
break from Thursday.


Dealers said sentiment was generally boosted by strong gains on
the US and Japanese bourses, although ICBC bucked the trend after
its 2006 net profit came in below expectations.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 207.01 points at 20,209.71.
Turnover was 51.68 billion Hong Kong dollars (6.6 billion US
dollars).


"The property sector paced today's rally because April and May
are traditionally the peak of sales of new and second-hand
apartments.


"Many investors expect robust sales of apartments during the long
Easter holiday weekend," said Eugene Law, head of research at
Celestial Asia Securities Holdings.


The market will be closed from Thursday until Monday for the
Ching Ming Festival and Easter.


"Interest in properties was also bolstered by market talk that
the US Federal Reserve might cut interest rates sometime at the
end of the second quarter or in the third quarter of this year,"
Law said.


"Sentiment has been sound in the past few days and the strong
gains in the Tokyo market today encouraged investors to buy
stocks across the board despite the long holiday weekend," he
said.


China Mobile was up 0.45 at 71.37.


SEOUL: Share prices jumped 1.34 percent to a record finish,
reflecting Wall Street's gains and optimism about the benefits of
the just-concluded US-SKorea free trade agreement.


Dealers said foreign investors continued to buy Samsung
Electronics and other blue chips ahead of the corporate quarterly
earnings season starting next week.


Samsung Electronics rose more than three percent and Hynix gained
more than two percent.


The KOSPI index added 19.66 points at 1,483.41. Trading was
active, with 347 million shares worth 4.5 trillion won (4.8
billion dollars) changing hands.


"The market is now heading towards 1,500 points," Samsung
Securities' analyst Oh Hyun-Seok said.


He noted that Wednesday's record high was significant, coming
despite concerns over the US economic and some nervousness ahead
of the reporting season.


Samsung Electronics jumped 21,000 won to 595,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.90 percent higher, surging past the
8,000-point barrier for the first time since August 2000, with
sentiment bolstered by Wall Street's overnight rally.


Dealers said the New York rally on signs of a resilient US
housing market and a pullback in oil prices had spurred robust
buying which offset profit-taking ahead of upcoming holidays.


The weighted index closed up 71.70 points at 8,004.61 on turnover
of 132.97 billion Taiwan dollars (4.02 billion US).


"Market heavyweights in both the technology and financial sectors
led today's solid advance," Mega International Investment
Services assistant vice president Alex Huang said.


The fact that the benchmark index followed Wall Street's lead to
pierce 8,000 points just ahead of a long holiday reflects
investor confidence that the market is ready to advance further
when trading resumes after the break, he said.


He quickly added, however, that he is not ruling out a correction
to test support at the 8,000-point level in coming weeks, when
companies begin reporting results for the first quarter to March,
a seasonally weaker period especially for technology companies.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co closed up 1.30 at 69.30
dollars.


SHANGHAI: Share prices edged up marginally to make it another
record finish as profit-taking took the market off early highs.


Dealers said auto and machinery stocks attracted further support
but after the recent run of sustained gains, it was no surprise
that some investors wanted to take money off the table.


Volumes continued to pick up on fresh fund inflows, inspiring
confidence that further gains can be made even from these record
levels.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 0.24 points at 3,291.54, a
new closing high, on turnover of 113.26 billion yuan (14.61
billion dollars).


"The market saw some profit-taking in late afternoon but losses
were offset by fresh capital coming in ... and this is a sign
that buying interest remains strong," said Wang Sai, an analyst
at Wanguo Consulting.


Dealers said investors are confident of more gains to come as the
market shows no fear at these record levels, with late February's
massive sell-off seemingly forgotten.


Concerns that the authorities could take further steps to cool
both the economy and the market have also faded into the
background but investors remain mindful of that possibility.


"The market is likely to maintain this upward momentum on
continued fund inflows as long as the regulator does not attempt
to control it by issuing new polices (aimed at reining in
investment)," said Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow Securities
said.


Shanghai Automotive added 0.68 yuan at 13.86.


SYDNEY: Share prices rallied strongly on more takeover activity
to close up 1.39 percent at record levels, fully recovering from
the Chinese-led sell-off of late February.


Dealers said a strong lead from Wall Street overnight supported
the region and then the Reserve Bank of Australia's decision to
leave interest rates unchanged, when many had expected a hike,
boosted sentiment further.


The SP/ASX 200 jumped 83.8 points 6,097.2. Turnover was 1.72
billion shares worth 6.24 billion dollars (5.07 billion US) as
the market rose from the open.


The market opened strongly after conglomerate Wesfarmers
announced a 19.7 billion dollar offer for the nation's second
largest retailer, Coles Group, which added 0.75 dollars or 4.66
percent to a record 16.86 dollars.


Wesfarmers gained 1.69 or 4.58 percent to 38.60.


Aequs Securities head of institutional trading Ric Klusman said
"Wesfarmers' offer is fairly attractive and with a scrip (share)
component, that's more attractive to local institutional
investors."


At the same time, Coles did slip back slightly as investors
became less certain that a consortium led by buy-out specialists
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts would return to the fray and top
Wesfarmers' 16.47 dollars per share offer.


SINGAPORE: Share prices hit fresh record highs as investors
snapped up blue chips following a strong rally in US stocks
overnight.


The Straits Times Index soared 44.56 points to 3,332.92. Volume
totalled 2.48 billion shares worth 2.47 billion Singapore dollars
(1.64 billion US).


"There is some concern about valuations, but (investors) like
Singapore because there's stability in the economy," Henderson
Global Investors (Singapore) Ltd regional managing director
Alexander Henderson said.


"We don't think the market has overextended, as there's still
good news and earnings are coming through. Importantly, there's a
lot of transparency."


Singapore Telecommunications rose 0.08 to 3.36.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 1.15 percent higher on the back
of Wall Street's rally overnight and institutional buying in
plantations and construction.


Dealers said the local bourse had been "unexpectedly strong" over
the past two sessions but trading was likely to remain choppy and
the local bourse will continue to take its cues from regional
bourses.


"Institutional buying is still around, which is a good sign. But
the volume has been low if compared to the previous run-up which
may indicate that people are still unconvinced," said an analyst
with a local brokerage.


The composite index closed up 14.49 points at 1,271.31 on volumes
valued at 3.421 billion ringgit (992 million dollars).


Teoh Cheng Guan, KN Kenanga's head of retail research said the
next strong resistance level for the bourse was at 1,285 points.


"We caution that at this level, any upside would be limited," he
said.


Telekom Malaysia gained 0.10 ringgit to 10.20.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 1.02 percent higher in line with
regional gains amid falling oil prices and strong capital inflows
into the region.


Dealers said banking stocks dominated the advance due to strong
expectations that the Bank of Thailand would cut its key interest
rate at its policy board meeting next week.


The composite index gained 7.01 points to 693.54 on turnover of
2.93 billion shares worth 17.2 billion baht (492 million
dollars).


Pichai Lertsuponkit, senior vice president at Thanachart
Securities, said Asian stocks surged after oil prices dropped by
one dollar a barrel.


The fall was prompted by easing tensions between Iran, the
world's fourth largest oil exporter, and the UK over the
detention of 15 British sailors.


"The oil price decrease benefited the Asian economy, and prompted
investors to believe that the regional economy was improving.
Consequently, we have seen the return of higher capital inflow to
the region," Pichai said.


The top three most active stocks were in the banking sector,
which dominated 30 percent of trading volume on Wednesday, he
said.


The market widely expects the central bank's rate-setting
committee to cut interest rates next week to 4.00 percent from
the current 4.50 percent.


"It will not be the last rate cut for this year. We target the
rate will be slashed by another 50 percentage points in the next
committee meeting in May," Pichai added.


Bangkok Bank rose 3.00 to 113.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices rose 1.45 percent to a fresh record high
ahead of a possible interest rate cut this week.


The composite index closed up 27.475 points at 1,922.051 on
volume of 3.98 billion shares valued at 6.06 trillion rupiah
(664.47 million dollars).


BNI Securities analyst Norico Gaman said the stockmarket may soon
test its next "resistance level" at 1,950 points, after easily
breaching the previous psychologically important mark of 1,900.


Perusahaan Gas Negara rose 750 rupiah, or 7.73 percent, to 10,450
amid upbeat sentiment about its earnings prospects.


State nickel miner Antam soared 1,500 rupiah to 14,200.


MANILA: Share prices closed 1.42 percent higher on the back of
overnight gains in Wall Street and a benign inflation rate for
March.


The consumer price index in March rose just 2.2 percent year-on-
year, the lowest inflation rate since April 1987, with news
sparking speculation the central bank might cut interest rates as
a result.


The composite index rose 46.23 points to 3,294.23. Volume was 5.9
billion shares worth 5.3 billion pesos (110 million dollars).


"The market has been gathering momentum since Monday" after
investors took some profits earlier in anticipation of the
upcoming Easter holiday, said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink Global
Equities Inc.


He said the latest inflation figures were positive and stocks are
increasingly attractive as offering greater returns if interest
rates are set to go lower.


Ayala Land Inc advanced 75 centavos to 17.50 pesos.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.30 percent higher, boosted by
strong gains in offshore markets.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 12.69 points to 4,187.98 on turnover
worth 153.6 million dollars (110.4 million US).


The local bourse was supported by strong overseas markets and the
decision of the Australian central bank not to raise interest
rates, which boosted stocks there to record highs, Forsyth Barr
broker Suzanne Kinnaird said.


The positive overseas influence was offset by a nine cent fall in
market leader Telecom to close at 4.83 dollars. Profit-takers
took advantage of Telecom's strong rise following the sale of its
Yellow Pages business last week, dealers said.


Rural services firm PGG Wrightson rose nine cents to 1.61 dollars
and casino operator Sky City fell five cents to 4.70.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed 1.28 percent higher as Asian markets
recovered on lower oil prices and a rally on Wall Street.


Dealers said local funds bought into mid and small-cap stocks on
bargain hunting after the markets posted the sharpest fall in
nearly a year on Monday as inflation concerns eased.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex closed up 162.19 points at 12,786.77.


On Monday, the Sensex endured its biggest one-day drop since May
18, 2006 after the central bank hiked a key short-term lending
rate by a quarter point to 7.75 percent after the market close
Friday last week.


"The recovery in global markets boosted sentiment here. Investors
will watch inflation data and full-year corporate earnings to
determine future buying activity," said Hiten Mehta, a fund
manager with Fortune Financial Services.


The rupee rose to an eight year high against the dollar of 42.9
from 43.1 as banks sold dollars to raise funds (in rupees) to
meet India's central bank requirements for cash reserves.

