

Amnesty International said Wednesday that a new facility at
Guantanamo Bay held prisoners in even harsher conditions than the
rest of the detention center and called for the camp to be shut
down.


The rights watchdog described the camp as "one of the worst
blemishes on the United States' human rights record," and said
that keeping terrorist suspects in such "cruel" conditions
undermined the country's moral authority.


"Guantanamo Bay is the festering symbol of the Bush
administration's continued contempt for international law and
disregard for human rights," said Larry Cox, the executive
director of Amnesty International USA.


The report, entitled "USA: Cruel and Inhuman -- Conditions of
Isolation for Detainees in Guantanamo Bay," said conditions at
the US Navy-run camp on the southeastern coast of Cuba were
deteriorating.


"A new facility that opened in December 2006, known as Camp Six,
has created even harsher and apparently more permanent conditions
of extreme isolation and sensory deprivation," Amnesty said.


Cox accused the administration of US President George W. Bush of
using the cloak of national security to justify human rights
violations.


"Perhaps President Bush needs to think again, because the voices
calling for the closure of this disgrace to American values are
only getting louder," he said.


The report said that Guantanamo detainees were reportedly
confined to windowless cells for 22 hours a day, only allowed to
exercise at night and could go for days at a time without seeing
daylight.


It said that it appeared that around 80 percent of the roughly
385 prisoners held at Guantanamo were in isolation cells.


"While the United States has an obligation to protect its
citizens... that does not relieve the United States from its
responsibilities to comply with human rights," the report said.


"Statements by the Bush administration that these men are 'enemy
combatants,' 'terrorists' or 'very bad people' do not justify the
complete lack of due process rights," the rights group added.


Amnesty reiterated its call for Guantanamo to be shut down and
for inmates -- many of whom are suspected Taliban and Al-Qaeda
fighters detained in Afghanistan -- either to be released or
charged and sent to trial.

