

Hostage takers in volatile southern Nigeria released Wednesday
four foreign workers held captive in the oil-rich region,
diplomats and industry officials said.


The freed men were two Lebanese and one Dutch and one British
national.


The Briton was identified as Gordon Gray from Crieff in
Perthshire, who was seized by armed men four days ago from an
offshore rig in the western Niger delta.


A British Foreign Office spokeswoman said Gray, who works as
offshore installation manager with Aberdeen-based Dolphin
Drilling, was "in good health" and had been taken to the British
Deputy High Commission in Lagos.


Meanwhile, an industry source and a member of a militant group in
Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, both said a Dutch
expatriate worker had also been freed.


The Dutch man, who was not identified, was kidnapped March 23
from Port Harcourt, where he is employed as security manager for
the Nigerian arm of German building company Bilfinger Berger.


The militant group member said two Lebanese nationals working for
a construction firm Setraco, were also released Wednesday -- a
move confirmed by Gray's employer, Dolphin Drilling.


Sources disagreed as to whether all four men had been released as
a group. They had been held in three separate places.


Questioned about the timing of the releases, the militant said
"some money changed hands" but did not elaborate.


Since the start of this year, more than 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in southern Nigeria, at least as many as were abducted
during the whole of 2006.


Some of the hostage-takers are well-organised, well-equipped
groups fighting for a greater share of oil wealth to go to local
communities. Others are more like criminal gangs out to make easy
money from ransom payments.


Most of the hostages have been released unharmed, but two Chinese
nationals abducted on March 17 in the southeastern state of
Anambra remain missing.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.

