

Germany's Nico Rosberg Wednesday joined other top Formula One
drivers in support of a controversial plan to stage Formula One
grand prix races at night.


"It is going to be very exciting. It is always good to have a new
idea," the Williams driver told reporters ahead of the April 8
Malaysian Grand Prix.


However, Rosberg, the son of former world champion Keke, who is
racing with the Williams team for a second year, cautioned
organisers about the need to ensure drivers safety.


"They need to look at the safety aspects especially if it rains.
It can be dangerous. But saying that, it will be great for
everybody," he added.


Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has spoken of including
night races on the F1 schedule as early as next season to boost
TV audiences.


Top drivers including world champion Fernando Alonso have opposed
the plan, citing safety fears.


The Spaniard said in Australia recently that he had some
experience of racing at night at the McLaren team's 2007 season
launch.


"We launched the car in Valencia at night and it was extremely
difficult to see the road," Alonso said.


"For me, it's very hard to believe that they will have strong
enough lights to see okay to have a Grand Prix."


But others testing here gave their qualified support.


"For me it is okay as long as there is enough lighting," Ferrari
driver Kimi Raikkonen told reporters.


His team-mate Felipe Massa said: "As long as we can see and as
long as it is safe, why not?"


Support for Ecclestone's plans seems to be growing after Mokhzani
Mahathir, chairman of the Sepang International Circuit (SIC),
backed night races.


"For me it makes commercial sense to host a night race. It is
cooler to race here and we think we can get more people to come
and watch at Sepang," he said.


Rosberg, who finished seventh in the season-opener race in
Australia, said his focus in Malaysia will be to win points for
the constructors' race.


"The competition is going to be tough. But the important thing is
to score points and to remain consistent," he said.


Williams is fifth in the constructors title which is led by
McLaren-Mercedes, Ferrari, BMW Sauber and Renault.

