

AFP BB News, the interactive website in Japan developed with
Agence France- Presse and Internet giant Softbank, on Wednesday
announced an expanded alliance that will reach some 10 million
bloggers.


AFP BB (http://www.afpbb.com) said it will link to 11 other
Japanese blogging services to provide free access to its photos
and stories, which are drawn from the global network of Agence
France-Presse (AFP).


"We hope this will fuel greater interest in global affairs by
stimulating wider discussion of what's happening around us," AFP
managing director Jean-Pierre Vignolle told a news conference in
Tokyo.


An estimated 10 million bloggers will "now be able to access AFP
content without fear of infringing on our copyright," Vignolle
said.


"What they will get is a reliable and trusted source of archival
and current information -- much of it close to real-time -- to
enrich and substantiate their blogs," he said.


AFP has a pool of 2,000 reporters, photographers, editors and
graphic artists working in 170 countries and territories.


AFP BB uses a "one-click" technology that allows bloggers to
integrate AFP photographs into their postings.


"It's not always easy to put photos on a blog and it takes time,
so many blogs are nothing but text," said Hidetsugu Tonomura of
Yahoo Japan! Blog, part of the alliance.


"We think the new possibilities offered by AFP BB News will give
birth to blogs of better quality with superb, professional
photos," he said.


Yoshiya Taniwaki of fellow blog service Jugem said the alliance
was "a way for AFP to give more visibility to its pictures and
for us to draw in more blog creators to start a new community."


"In that, it's a real Web 2.0 service," he said.


AFP BB is a venture between AFP and Movida Entertainment, a unit
of Softbank whose Yahoo broadband service covers five million
households in Japan.


A third partner is technology firm Creative Link, whose
shareholders include trading house Itochu and Japan's top
toymaker Bandai.


Besides AFP, content providers to AFP BB include Getty Images and
Jiji Press, the Japanese news agency which has been AFP's partner
since 1949.

