

There should be only one Formula One Grand Prix in southeast
Asia, a top minister said Wednesday, but denied Malaysia was
jittery over neighbouring Singapore's bid to host it.


"(The) region should have one F1 race. Singapore should not
compete with Malaysia," Sports Minister Azalina Othman Said told
reporters.


"I am not worried. I have no concern with Singapore hosting the
F1 race," she added.


Commercial negotiations are under way and the wealthy Singapore
government is prepared to offer support in order to host a F1
race in the city-state.


A decision is expected after this weekend's Malaysian Grand Prix.


Formula One driver Max Webber drove through the proposed street
track in Singapore last weekend, fueling speculation that a
decision is imminent.


Singapore's Trade and Industry minister S. Iswaran has told
parliament the country was taking a "very serious look" at
hosting an F1 race.


The island republic's founding father Lee Kuan Yew said two years
ago that he regretted not having built a Formula One racetrack to
generate more money for the local economy.


Azalina said Malaysia had a far superior track and touted the
country's hospitality service, which she said was a draw for race
teams as well as tourists.


"I think Malaysia has one of the best tracks. We host the hottest
race in the world. I don't think Singapore can challenge the F1
race in Malaysia," said Azalina.


"Singapore and Malaysia should be complementary," she added.


Her comments were in contrast to those from Mokhzani Mahathir,
chairman of the Sepang International Circuit (SIC), who told AFP
last week the move by Singapore would create more regional
awareness and interest in the sport.


"With Singapore hosting the race, it will only create more
interest and we will probably get more spectators at Sepang," he
said.


However, Mokhzani warned against holding the F1 races back-to-
back, as that would "cannibalise spectatorship."


Malaysia has stressed its commitment to ensuring it remains one
of the legs of the F1 race beyond 2010.


The country hosted its first F1 Malaysian Grand Prix in 1999 and
last year promoters SIC renewed the contract for another five
years.

