

An Australian marine biologist on Wednesday began an unusual feat
he hopes will prove a point about sustainability -- he will live
underwater for two weeks.


Lloyd Godson, 29, believes he can survive inside his airtight
steel box by growing algae to produce oxygen and to eat, and by
riding a stationary bike to generate electricity.


"I've always liked a challenge and I couldn't have picked a
bigger one than this," he told ABC radio.


"To build and live in your own underwater house -- that's pretty
cool."


Godson will spend two weeks inside the nine cubic metre box on
the bottom of a lake near Albury, on the Victoria and New South
Wales state border.


Removing carbon dioxide from the cell's atmosphere and producing
oxygen from algae will be the most difficult elements of the
experiment, during which Godson will also undergo psychological
and physical testing.


"We've got some gas monitors and back-up air supplies to make
sure that the air quality stays at a high standard," he said.


"If it doesn't, then that's when I'll implement my back-up
strategy."


For entertainment he will be able to surf the Internet and play
some drums he has taken into his underwater lair.


Back on land, a team of divers and volunteers will monitor his
movements.


Godson is not the first to carry out such a feat, as similar
experiments were carried out by NASA bio-engineers in the 1990s.


"The thing that differentiates this project from a lot of other
underwater habitat programmes is that it's not a billion or a
million dollar programme and it's not using conventional
methods," he told Australian Associated Press.


"There's a lot of unknowns, that's the excitement factor for me."


Godson said he has long been interested in sub-sea habitats and
submersibles and he was looking forward to the peace and quiet of
his underwater sanctuary.


"Compared to out here, it'll be a refuge from the last couple of
days. I want to just get in there and get on my little camping
bed and take it easy for a while," he said.

