

Legendary rocker Keith Richards surpassed even his own hell-
raising standards for shocking behaviour Wednesday, after
admitting he snorted his father's ashes during a cocaine-fuelled
drugs binge.


The Rolling Stones guitarist, infamous for his hard-living,
hedonistic lifestyle, made the bizarre confession during an
interview in which he also voiced surprise he was not already
dead himself.


"The strangest thing I've tried to snort? My father, I snorted my
father," he told the New Musical Express (NME). "He was cremated
and I couldn't resist grinding him up with a little bit of blow
(cocaine).


"My dad wouldn't have cared, he didn't give a shit ... It went
down pretty well and I'm still alive."


Richards, whose father Bert died in 2002 at the age of 84, has
been notorious for his drug use since the Stones became worldwide
stars in the 1960s.


The journalist who carried out the interview said the 63-year-old
Stones legend had appeared sanguine when recalling the incident
-- and did not appear simply to be seeking publicity ahead of a
Stones world tour in June.


"He had a line of blow...and sprinkled a bit of his dad on it,"
Mark Beaumont told BBC radio. "He did seem to be quite honest
about it all .. there's a few too many details for him to be
making it up."


And he commented: "It's the kind of thing you'd expect from Keith
Richards to be honest ... In his legendary hedonistic manner he's
probably sending him off the best way he could see fit."


Richards -- who reportedly feuded with his father after his
parents divorced, although they made up before his death -- also
voiced surprise that he himself was still alive at nearly
pensionable age.


During one drug experience - his worst ever, he says -- some
people thought he had died.


"It was when someone put strychnine in my dope. It was in
Switzerland. I was totally comatose, but I was totally awake," he
told the NME.


"I could listen to everyone, and they were like, 'He's dead, he's
dead!', waving their fingers and pushing me about,and I was
thinking, 'I'm not dead!"


But he said: "I've no pretensions about immortality ... I was
number one on the Who's Likely To Die list for 10 years. I mean,
I was really disappointed when I fell off the list."


But he also directed an angry tirade at fellow drug-user Pete
Doherty, the frontman of British band Babyshambles currently
dating supermodel Kate Moss, who he predicted could be killed by
his love of narcotics.


"My advice for Pete Doherty is that he should shut the fuck up
and leave her," he said.


"I don't know the man, all I know is he's pushing his luck and
there it is, but so is Kate, who I know very well.


"Kate wants to play with bad boys and she's done one, and then
another one, and then another one. Badabing, badabing, badaboom.
She'll live, the boys will die."


As well as co-writing hits such as "Brown Sugar", "Street
Fighting Man" and "Miss You", Richards has become known in recent
years as the inspiration for Johnny Depp's character Jack Sparrow
in the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films.

