

An election official and two peasant activists have become the
latest casualties in a series of political murders in the
Philippines that have drawn international condemnation, police
said Wednesday.


Pete Amurin, a local election board official in the city of
Puerto Rincesa, capital of Palawan island west of Manila, was
shot dead at close range near his office late Tuesday, senior
police superintendent David Martinez said.


No motive has yet been established, but Martinez said police were
investigating whether it was related to the upcoming May 14 mid-
term election.


Meanwhile, police said they found the bodies Wednesday of two
missing members of the militant Peasant Movement of the
Philippines, or KMP, near a river in the northern town of Lailo
in Cagayan province.


The bodies of Arthur Orpilla and Dionisio Battad, both 50, bore
multiple knife and gunshot wounds, their colleagues said.


Chief Superintendent Geary Barias, head of a task force
investigating the killings, said he would go to Cagayan Thursday
to lead the probe.


"Let me assure the victims' families and their colleagues of
swift police action to identify and prosecute those behind these
dastardly murders," Barias said, adding that the victims appeared
to have been killed elsewhere before being dumped near the river.


Rights groups say more than 800 activists, officials, journalists
and missionaries have been assassinated since President Gloria
Arroyo came to power in 2001, and the UN has pointed the finger
of blame at the military.


The killings come just weeks ahead of May 14 mid-term elections
seen in part as a referendum on Arroyo, who has been dogged by
allegations that she cheated in her 2004 re-election win.


Elections in the Philippines are often marred by vote fraud and
violence, and Amurin is the third victim of a suspected
politically motivated murder in the past 10 days.


Witnesses said an unidentified man embraced Amurin and then shot
him at close range. The man then fled with a companion on a
waiting motorcycle.


A UN rights investigator and an independent Philippine commission
both concluded that the military has had a role in some of the
killings as part of a state- sanctioned policy to target Arroyo's
opponents.


The government and military have vigorously denied the charges.

