

Airlines should return to the black this year with 3.8 billion US
dollars in profits after six years of losses totalling more than
40 billion dollars, the top industry association said Wednesday.


The International Air Transport Association (IATA) sharply raised
its 2007 profit forecast for the world's airlines from 2.5
billion dollars previously as carriers fill more of their
available seats.


The higher estimate can be achieved despite an expected slowdown
in the US economy and oil prices staying at more than 60 dollars
a barrel, it said.


Net profit could then inrcease to 7.6 billion dollars in 2008 on
faster US growth and expected lower fuel costs, IATA said in a
report alongside a speech by IATA director-general Giovanni
Bisignani in Singapore.


"After six years and over 40 billion US dollars in losses, this
year will see the industry return to profitability," Bisignani
told airline executives.


"In fact, today we are raising our profit outlook for 2007 to 3.8
billion US dollars," he said, adding however "there is a lot of
hard work still ahead."


The IATA report also cautioned that despite improving profits,
"the industry remains vulnerable to the kind of shocks that hit
demand and costs in the past six years."


Returns on capital remain below the average of the late 1990s,
airline balance sheets "remain fragile" and companies "have not
been able to use the strength of revenues to build up a cash
cushion against shocks," IATA warned.


"Although no economic recession is expected, the airline industry
is moving into a period of slower revenue growth over the next
two years," it said, putting revenue growth at 5.0 percent this
year and next, half the 10 percent rate posted since 2004.


In his speech, Bisignani called on Asia Pacific airlines to take
a leadership role in shaping the global industry by initiating
reforms aimed at increasing efficiency and reducing costs.


By 2010, Asia will be the biggest market in the world, with the
region home to some of the biggest industry players such as
Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific and Qantas, he noted.


One area in which Asia can lead is in liberalisation, through an
open skies policy, he said, criticising Europe and the United
States for a failure of leadership.


"Don't import the policy mistakes of Europe and the US. Asian
governments must have a plan for liberalisation that is more than
just a reaction to what it going on across the Atlantic," he
said.


While there are plans to liberalise the industry in Asia and some
bileratal open skies agreements have been signed, a gradual
approach is inadequate as the business is changing rapidly, he
said, urging the region to "start thinking much bigger and much
faster."

