

The European Union said Wednesday it was ready to scrap almost
all quotas and tariffs on exports from African, Caribbean and
Pacific nations, but was quickly snubbed by part of the ACP
group.


The European Commission and the 78-nation ACP face a year-end
deadline to conclude new trade agreements because a current
preferential market access accord is due to expire then.


Under the EU's new offer, all quotas and tariffs on ACP goods
would be lifted once a deal was signed, with the exception of
rice and sugar.


Ninety seven percent of EU imports from ACP nations are already
tariff-free or are taxed only at very low levels while 40 of the
poorest countries already enjoy free access to EU markets.


"Trade and development for ACP countries is about much more than
just access to the European market," EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson said.


"But by removing all remaining tariffs and quotas for all
African, Caribbean and Pacific countries we will create the best
possible opportunities for these economies," he added.


In reaction, the negotiator for the Caribbean ACP countries
slammed the offer owing to the exceptions on rice and sugar,
describing it as "derisory" and warning it could cause more harm
than good.


"The European Commission offer threatens to poison the
negotiating climate, especially at a time when both sides are
making strides (on) flexibilities," said Junior Lodge.


"We therefore hope that good sense will prevail and the European
Commission will offer all ACP regions a more constructive and
attractive market access offer," he added.


Levies on sugar would be phased out by 2015 while a reform in
subsidies for EU sugar farmers is carried out and a firm date has
not yet been set for rice, the Commission said.


The offer did not cover South Africa, which has a bilateral trade
agreement with the EU and which the Commission said produces "a
number of globally competitive products."


The ACP group, made up mostly of former European colonies, have
benefitted from preferential access to EU markets since the
signing of the Lome accord in 1975.


But other equally poor countries, mostly in Latin America, have
contested the ACPs' preferential treatment and have won backing
from the World Trade Organisation.


In 2001, the world trade referee gave the EU until the end of
this year to come up with a new framework that would be more
compatible with international rules of commerce.


After their WTO defeat, the Europeans and the ACP opened talks in
2002 for new so-called economic partnership agreements which are
being conducted by regions -- eastern, central and southern
Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.


But little progress has been made, and pressure is building as
the year-end deadline approaches.


A number of development pressure groups, including Oxfam and
Action Aid, consider the deadline to be unrealistic and have
called for it to be pushed back.


The European Commission had promised that it would offer greater
market access as part of the negotiations, which some development
pressure groups have accused the EU of using to gain greater
access to ACP markets.


Brussels said the new offer was not conditional on ACP countries
matching the EU in tearing down tariff and quota barriers and
that any greater market access they would have to provide to meet
WTO rules could be phased in.

