

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi was holding talks with Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad on Wednesday on a two-day trip to
Damascus that has infuriated the White House.


US President George W. Bush said Pelosi's visit sent "mixed
signals" that harmed his administration's efforts to isolate
Assad's regime over its alleged support for terrorism and
accusations of meddling in Iraq and Lebanon.


Pelosi, the most senior US official to visit Damascus in years,
has shrugged off the administration's criticism and insisted her
talks were key in securing a Syrian role in the fight against
terror and resolving regional crises.


Pelosi and Assad began talks in the presidential palace
overlooking Damascus after she held separate meetings with
Foreign Minister Walid Muallem and Vice President Faruq al-Shara.


Syria state media welcomed the visit as an effort to relaunch
dialogue and said it was essential to solving crises in
neighbouring Lebanon and Iraq and reviving the Arab-Israeli peace
process.


But Bush condemned the visit by Pelosi, a leading Democrat and
ardent opponent of the Republican US president, as sending "mixed
signals" to the regime.


"Photo opportunities and/or meetings with president Assad lead
the Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of
the international community, when, in fact, they're a state
sponsor of terror," Bush said Tuesday.


Syria is "helping expedite, or at least not stopping, the
movement of foreign fighters from Syria into Iraq," he charged,
adding that Damascus has "done little to nothing to rein in
militant Hamas and Hezbollah" and worked to "destabilise the
Lebanese democracy."


"The position of this administration is that the best way to meet
with a leader like Assad or people from Syria is in the larger
context of trying to get the global community to help change his
behaviour."


The United States withdrew its ambassador from Syria after the
February 2005 assassination of former Lebanese premier Rafiq
Hariri, in which a UN investigation has implicated Syrian
officials despite Damascus's denials.


Washington had already imposed economic sanctions on Damascus in
2004, accusing Syria of harbouring terror groups, backing
insurgents in Iraq and meddling in Lebanon.


The US embassy said Pelosi will speak to the press before leaving
for Saudi Arabia, the last leg of a regional fact-finding tour.


"Our trip to Syria is one that is important to us... (and) is
part of our responsibility for the national security of the
United States," Pelosi said Monday in Beirut.


She insisted it was in line with the bipartisan Iraq Study Group,
which calls on the Bush administration to engage foes Damascus
and Tehran in the search for solutions in Lebanon and Iraq.


"We will be talking about the overarching issue, the fight
against terrorism and the role that Syria can play to help or to
hinder that role," she said.


Al-Baath daily, Syria's ruling party mouthpiece said Pelosi's
talks with Syrian leaders were "beneficial to everyone despite
the deep differences that exist between the Syrians and the
Democrats towards the Palestinian issue and the Arab-Israeli
conflict."


The Tishrin government daily added: "We admit that Mrs Pelosi's
important visit will not be able to erase all the obstacles that
undermine the return to normal of Syrian-American relations... or
remove the black clouds that hang over these ties.


"But this does not mean that the visit will not achieve any
positive results. Syria is part of the solution, not part of the
problem, be it in Lebanon, Iraq or the peace process," Tishrin
said.


"Dialogue is a two-lane highway. Dialogue is not a one-way
street."

