

World oil prices fell further Wednesday on easing supply concerns
following the release of four foreign oil workers abducted last
week in Nigeria, Africa's biggest crude producer, dealers said.


Crude oil futures were also weighed down by hopes that Britain
and Iran -- the world's fourth largest oil producer -- could find
a diplomatic solution to a near two-week stand-off sparked by
Tehran's detention of 15 British troops.


"Crude futures were a little lower today, extending losses from
the previous session amid easing geopolitical concerns," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said.


In London trading, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery shed seven cents to 67.74 dollars in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, slid 36 cents to 64.28 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


A Briton, Dutch national and two Lebanese oil workers held
hostage in volatile oil-rich southern Nigeria since last Saturday
have been released, the British High Commission and industry
sources said Wednesday.


Nigeria has seen its oil production slashed since last year owing
to disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.


Crude futures are falling also over easing worries over Iran.


"The market is trending down, reflecting (also) the easing
tensions with regard to the situation in Iran," said analyst
Victor Shum at energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"The level of rhetoric between the UK and Iran has been lowered
and there are expectations that a peaceful diplomatic solution
will come about."


Concerns over Iran propelled crude futures to seven-month peaks
above 69 dollars a barrel in London on Monday.


Traders fear that the Islamic republic might disrupt its precious
energy exports should the crisis with Britain worsen. Iran is
already under the international spotlight over its disputed
nuclear ambitions.


Iran on Wednesday welcomed a "change of tone" from Britain in the
13-day crisis after British Prime Minister Tony Blair expressed
hope that direct talks could solve the standoff.


The new comments marked a distinct moderation in rhetoric between
the two sides, raising hopes that there could be an end in sight
to the row that has further poisoned relations between Iran and
the West.


London has maintained that British sailors and marines were
carrying out routine anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters
when seized on March 23.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme.


Meanwhile on Wednesday, the market was awaiting the US Department
of Energy's weekly snapshot of American energy reserves, which is
forecast to show that supplies of gasoline (petrol) fell last
week.

