

The European Union offered Wednesday to scrap almost all
remaining quotas and tariffs on exports from African, Caribbean
and Pacific nations, its executive branch said.


The European Commission and the 78-nation ACP group are in the
midst of tough talks on new trade agreements which both sides
hope to to conclude this year.


Under the EU's new offer, all quotas and tariffs on ACP goods
would be lifted once a deal was signed, with the exception of
rice and sugar.


Levies on sugar would be phased out by 2015, while those on rice
would be lifted a few years later, the Commission said without
setting a firm date.


The offer did not cover South Africa, which the Commission said
produces "a number of globally competitive products."


Ninety seven percent of EU imports from ACP countries are already
tariff-free or are taxed only at very low levels.


"Trade and development for ACP countries is about much more than
just access to the European market," EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson said.


"But by removing all remaining tariffs and quotas for all
African, Caribbean and Pacific countries we will create the best
possible opportunities for these economies," he added.


The ACP group, made up mostly of former European colonies, have
benefitted from preferential access to EU markets since the
signing of the Lome accord in 1975.


But other equally poor countries, mostly in Latin America, have
contested the ACPs' preferential treatment and have won backing
from the World Trade Organisation.


In 2001, the world trade referee gave the EU until the end of
this year to come up with a new framework that would be more
compatible with international rules of commerce.


After their WTO defeat, the Europeans and the ACP opened talks in
2002 for new so-called economic partnership agreements, which are
being conducted by regions -- eastern, central and southern
Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.


But with the year-end deadline looming, there is still a lot of
work to be done.

