

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Wednesday
backed calls from a German coalition party leader for a dialogue
with moderate elements of the Taliban in Afghanistan.


Kurt Beck, who heads the Social Democrat coalition partners of
Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, suggested after a visit
to German troops in Afghanistan last weekend that military force
alone would not put the violence-wracked country on the path to
peace.


"We have exhausted our possibilities... It is time to explore the
possibility of a national reconciliation with the Taliban," Beck
said.


Beck qualified his comments by saying that no-one who had
committed murder could ever be involved in negotiations.


Steinmeier, who is a member of Beck's party, said he was "very
much in agreement" with the suggestion.


The Afghan government wanted to "involve all powers which
renounce violence and take a constructive approach towards the
government", Steinmeier said in several newspapers on Wednesday.


Germany is a close ally of the Western-backed government of
President Hamid Karzai.


More than 2,700 German soldiers serve in the NATO-led force in
Afghanistan and Germany this week sent six Tornado jets to carry
out surveillance missions to help their NATO allies in the fight
against what commanders believe is the strongest Taliban uprising
since they were overthrown in 2001.


Yet Beck's call was criticised by members of Merkel's Christian
Democrats and the German press as a misguided attempt to broaden
his foreign policy profile -- he has also recently voiced
opposition to US plans to locate a missile shield in Poland and
the Czech Republic.


Some observers also saw him trying to boost his ambitions to
become chancellor.


"To give the Taliban, with their totalitarian outlook, a platform
at a major conference is completely out of the question," said
Christian Democrat member of parliament Ruprecht Polenz, who
chairs the parliament's foreign affairs committee.


The Sueddeutsche Zeitung daily agreed, saying in an editorial:
"The Taliban want one thing: to return Afghanistan to the Islamic
stone age. Why does Beck want to negotiate with them?"


The conservative Die Welt commented: "Of course, Beck, who wants
to become chancellor, must try to have his say in foreign policy,
but oppressed Afghanistan is not the place (to do it). Observing
and keeping quiet would have been better."

