

A United Nations disaster response team is heading to the Solomon
Islands to help coordinate relief efforts following the
devastating tsunami and earthquake there, a UN spokeswoman said
Wednesday.


"A six member UN disaster assessment and coordination team has
been deployed to the Pacific Island," said Elisabeth Byrs, a
spokeswoman for the UN's humanitarian coordination office (OCHA).


"They will be travelling today and should be there tomorrow," she
told AFP.


Officials in the Solomon Islands said at least 24 people had been
killed and 5,400 made homeless by the magnitude 8.0 earthquake
and tidal wave on Monday.


Many more were reported missing and the death toll was expected
to rise as the scale of the damage on the west coast near the
town of Gizo became clearer.


Authorities in the Solomon Islands have appealed for tents and
shelter equipment, clothing, food, medical supplies and water,
Byrs said.


"The prime minister has requested the establishment of a field
hospital in Gizo, as the main hospitals in Gizo and Muda are
damaged," she added.


The United Nations said there were fears that malaria could
spread easily among people who fled their homes after coastal
villages were destroyed.


The World Health Organisation has dispatched another expert from
the Fiji Islands to help with malaria control efforts, Byrs said.


More than 2,000 people were without shelter after Monday's
catastrophe, the Red Cross said.


The six disaster relief experts from Australia, Fiji Islands, New
Zealand and OCHA centres in Switzerland and Thailand will join
the national disaster management office in the Solomon Islands.


Other international experts were being deployed by the
International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and the European
Union, Byrs said.


The international Red Cross on Tuesday launched an initial
emergency appeal for 819,000 dollars (615,000 euros) for
international aid for the Solomon Islands.


Byrs said more aid was reaching the Pacific nation from a
regional disaster assistance network grouping countries in the
area.


A fresh 6.2-magnitude aftershock struck devastated areas on
Wednesday.

