

Shares in Telecom Italia leapt in midday trade Wednesday on
reports that German counterpart Deutsche Telekom might join in a
bid for the leading Italian telecommunications operator, dealers
said.


Italian newspapers Daily MF and Il Sole 24 Ore said Deutsche
Telekom might join Mediobanca and Assicurazioni Generali in an
offer for a 66-percent stake in Olimpia, a unit of the Italian
group Pirelli that holds a controlling stake in Telecom Italia.


Deutsche Telekom declined to comment, but Telecom Italia shares
nonetheless shot up by 3.56 percent to 2.46 euros half way
through the trading day, while the SP/Mib index of leading shares
had gained 0.12 percent overall.


"The reports are certainly benefiting" Telecom Italia, a dealer
in Milan said, while noting that he would he would rather buy
shares in Pirelli to take advantage of possible developments in
the mooted acquisition.


Pirelli is in exclusive talks to sell the Olimpia stake to
AT&T and its Mexican affiliate America Movil, with
negotiations based on a price per Telecom Italia share of 2.82
euros minus Olimpia's net debt.


Analysts said the AT&T/America Movil offer would boost
Pirelli's net asset value to 1.05-1.15 euros per share.


On Wednesday, shares in Pirelli gained 0.47 percent to 0.902
euros in midday trading.


MF said Mediobanca and Generali, which have a right of first
refusal on the Olimpia stake, aimed to form a group that would
control 29 percent of the shares in Telecom Italia.


A 30-percent holding would oblige the group to make a full
takeover bid.


Il Sole 24 Ore added that Telefonica of Spain was also being
considered as a possible partner to counter the bid by AT&T
and America Movil.


In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom shares showed a loss of 0.39
percent to 12.70 euros, while the DAX index of leading stocks was
0.19 percent higher overall.


"We do not comment on market rumours," a Deutsche Telekom
spokesman had said when asked about the Italian press reports.


Frankfurt dealers said Deutsche Telekom's share price might also
have been pushed lower by news that negotiations with the Ver.di
labour union ran into a log jam on Monday.


The two parties are discussing the planned outsourcing of 50,000
Telekom workers.

