

Mogadishu residents planned burials Wednesday for dozens of
bodies left abandoned in streets, buildings and morgues after
some of the heaviest fighting in the Somali capital for 15 years.


Although the city remained tense, locals felt emboldened to
venture back onto the streets by an extended lull in the violence
that broke out last Thursday with an Ethiopian offensive on
Islamist rebels backed by clan militia.


A local rights group, which compiled figures from hospitals and
witnesses, said 381 civilians had died and 565 were wounded in
the four days of clashes that followed.


"We are planning to go to the streets to bury the dead," Hussein
Aden Korgab, an elder from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan, told
AFP on Wednesday.


On Tuesday, Hawiye elders said they had agreed with Ethiopian
commanders to halt hostilities to allow for the bodies of the
dead to be collected.


Ethiopian commanders have yet to confirm any truce.


"We are looking for ways to get to the volatile areas, where the
bodies are littered," Korgab said.


Fighting blocked the dead from being buried within 24 hours in
accordance with Muslim rites, while medics warned of looming
health hazards if the bodies were left out in the open.


"We advise the people to bury the dead bodies in their
neighborhoods if they can," Abdullahi Sheikh, an official from
the capital's doctors association, told a local radio station.


An AFP correspondent said residents had returned to the streets
in non-volatile areas of Mogadishu, a day after Somali officials
told people to leave some southern districts, where Ethiopian and
Somali troops are still facing off with insurgents.


A US-backed global panel on Somalia on Tuesday called for a
ceasefire between all parties and the withdrawal of the Ethiopian
troops.


The International Contact Group on Somalia, which met in Cairo,
also called for the deployment of more African Union peacekeepers
to join a mission of 1,500 Ugandans currently deployed in
Mogadishu.


Ethiopian-Somali forces drove Islamist fighters with alleged
links to the Al- Qaeda network out of south and central Somalia
some three months ago.

