

The United Nations children's agency on Wednesday called for
urgent action to tackle a "humanitarian disaster" in the Central
African Republic (CAR), affected by conflict for the past ten
years.


"The situation in Central African Republic is critical, one can
say it's a humanitarian disaster," UNICEF's representative for
the country, Mahimbo Mdoe, told journalists here.


About 420 children die each week, and escalating conflict between
the government and rebel groups has forced some 212,000 people to
flee their homes, in recent years, he said.


UNICEF has appealed for 11.7 million dollars (8.7 million euros)
to help meet the country's humanitarian needs but to date only 22
percent of this total has been raised, Mdoe said.


UNICEF is also working to help demobilise child soldiers. It
estimates that there are currently between 300 and 600 such child
soldiers, with rebel groups especially active in their
recruitment.


Rape and abuse of women is another key area of concern, and
UNICEF is working to train military and regional officials to
prevent sexual violence and provide support to victims, Mdoe
said.


The Central African Republic borders many other conflict zones
such as Sudan, Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo.


"The country is in a rough neighbourhood," Mdoe said.


A US State Department official recently warned that a "perfect
storm of violence" could spill over from the conflict in the
Sudanese region of Darfur.


Some 3,000 refugees from the northeast of the CAR have crossed
the border into neighbouring Darfur, where other communities from
the same ethnic group are based, Mdoe noted.


The UNICEF official acknowledged that even if the CAR resolved
its own conflicts and humanitarian situation, it could still
remain under pressure as refugees seek shelter from neighbouring
strife in Chad and Sudan.


Nevertheless, relief efforts must focus on the country's internal
development and stabilisation before attempting to tackle wider
geopolitical issues, he added.

