

A drawing found in Japan has turned out to be a lost page in the
original edition of Antoine de Saint-Exupery's classic "The
Little Prince," the French aviator-turned-writer's nephew said
Wednesday.


The watercolour signed by the author depicts a scene from the
1943 book in which a bulky businessman sitting on his planet is
hunched over a list of numbers, busily counting stars he calls
his own.


"I am very pleased at the discovery. I was a bit moved to see a
drawing by Saint-Exupery," said Francois D'Agey, 81, nephew of
the writer who disappeared on a flight mission during World War
II.


"Although I'm usually wary of my family's enthusiasm (at supposed
discoveries) ... because we tend to become very sentimental, the
drawing is very probably the original," he told a news
conference.


"The Little Prince" is world-famous for its ostensibly simple
story about a stranded aviator who befriends a golden-haired
prince fallen from the skies who questions the incongruities of
human life.


Although the story was written for children, it struck a chord
with adults for its profoundly philosophical undertones.


A museum curator first bought the drawing in a secondhand book
fair in Japan in 1994 but only figured out in February it was
part of the book's very first edition published in 1943 in the
United States.


"When I first bought it I knew that it was an original but I
didn't know how precious it was," said Minoru Shibuya, curator
for a museum of picture books near Tokyo. He did not disclose the
price he paid.


Experts found that the paper, stains and page number all
corresponded with the original 1943 "Le Petit Prince" stored at
New York's Morgan Library, he said.


"Saint-Exupery was a very tall man whose speech didn't go with it
because he had a very soft voice," D'Agey recalled.


"He enjoyed contact with people, whether they were children or
adults ... and was constantly drawing pictures all the time and
everywhere, which is probably why his works are scattered
throughout the world," he added.


The recently found piece and other artwork by Saint-Exupery will
be on display from April 25 to May 7 at the Matsuya department
store in Tokyo's Ginza district.

