

Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said presidential elections
in May should not perturb Turkey's economic and political
stability, newspapers reported Wednesday, as the question of
whether he will run for the post has Ankara on tenterhooks.


"The country should not suffer tension" over the vote, Erdogan
told journalists who accompanied him on a trip to Syria on
Tuesday, the liberal daily Milliyet reported.


He recalled that political wrangling often upset financial
markets in Turkey, which has only recently emerged from a severe
economic crisis.


"Economic stability is of primary importance to us, we cannot
allow ourselves to disrupt it," he said. "Democracy is just as
important and we must find a balance between the two."


Erdogan, a former Islamist who disowned his past and now descibes
himself as a "conservative democrat," has refused to say whether
he will run for president, asserting that his Justice and
Development Party (AKP) will announce its choice after the
candidacy process formally begins on April 16.


The president is elected for a single seven-year term by
parliament, where the AKP, a conservative party with roots in
political Islam, holds a two-third majority that will allow it to
easily elect the candidate of its choice.


Opponents say Erdogan is unfit for the job because he is a
divisive figure with no true commitment to the fiercely guarded
secular system of this overwhelmingly Muslim country.


The main opposition center-left Republican People's Party
describes the presidency as the "last stronghold" of secularism
and accuses the AKP of seeking to seize it to advance what it
terms its secret Islamist agenda.


The influential military, the academic elite and the judiciary
are also mistrustful of the AKP.


Pro-secular civic groups have called for a rally in Ankara on
April 14 to protest against Erdogan's purported intention to
succeed President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunch secularist who
has often clashed with the government.


Erdogan has said he plans to meet major non-governmental groups,
including business associations and trade unions, to seek their
opinion on who should be Turkey's 11th president.


The election, which can run to three rounds, should be completed
on May 15 at the latest, but a detailed timetable has yet to be
determined.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has a one-
time right to reject bills passed by parliament and the final
word on appointing senior government officials.


Sezer, a former president of the Consitutional Court, Turkey's
highest judicial body, has often sent back to parliament laws he
considered breaches of secularism and blocked the appointment of
officials he saw as Islamist government cronies.

