

The Estonian president on Tuesday officially asked outgoing Prime
Minister Andrus Ansip to form the next government following last
month's elections in the Baltic state.


"I nominate Andrus Ansip as candidate for prime minister and give
him the task of forming the government," President Toomas Hendrik
Ilves said in a decree.


The right-of-centre Reform Party, headed by Ansip, emerged as the
winner in the March 4 parliamentary elections.


Ansip, 50, who has been premier since 2005, said he will present
his government's programme to parliament on Wednesday.


In order to be confirmed as head of government, he must receive
the backing of a majority of lawmakers.


"If parliament gives me the authority to form the next
government, I will present a list of ministers to the president
for approval already tomorrow," Ansip told reporters.


Three parties -- the Reform Party, Pro Patria-Res Publica and the
Social Democratic Party -- signed a coalition agreement on
Monday.


The trio have a comfortable 60-vote majority in the 101-member
single-chamber parliament.


On Monday, Ansip said the coalition would pursue the pro-business
policies of his outgoing administration, comprised of the Reform
Party and two centre-left parties, the Centre Party and the
People's Union.


Under the coalition agreement, Estonia will continue reducing the
flat rate of income tax from the current 22 percent to 18 percent
in 2011, despite calls by left-wingers during the election
campaign for more investment in public services.


Ansip has also said that foreign policy will continue to focus on
the "three main pillars" of the European Union and NATO -- both
of which Estonia joined in 2004 -- as well as strong ties with
the United States.


Ansip's liberal-minded Reform Party has 31 seats in parliament,
the conservative Pro Patria-Res Publica has 19 seats, and the
Social Democrats have 10 seats.


Analysts say the junior position of the Social Democrats is
reflected in the coalition agreement, which is strongly based on
the proposals of the right.


"The coalition agreement is tilted towards the ideas of the
right-wing parties," political scientist Tonis Saarts said on
Estonian Television.


"The views of the Social Democrats have been left in the shadow."


Ansip has said that the coalition agreement paves the way for a
durable government.


No Estonian government has yet served a full four-year term since
the Baltic state regained its independence from the Soviet Union
in 1991. Ansip is the first sitting premier to be re-elected.

