

Australia's hasty reaction to the threat of a tsunami which hit
the Solomon Islands contrasted sharply with a lack of equipment
and expertise to warn South Pacific nations, experts said
Tuesday.


A massive undersea 8.0-magnitude earthquake spawned the deadly
tsunami Monday that pounded the Solomon Islands and triggered
emergency warnings around the Pacific of possible sea surges
there.


Australian officials were aware almost immediately of the
abnormally large quake and predicted from its size and location
that there was a chance the country's east coast could be hit by
a tsunami.


Beaches along Australia's east coast were quickly closed and
ferries crossing Sydney Harbour stopped as officials anxiously
awaited news.


But it took hours for any more information about a possible tidal
wave to reach Australian cities because of a lack of equipment
and expertise in the South Pacific, experts said.


"This was frightening in a sense that we were warned there
could've been a tsunami, we were trying to work out the magnitude
of it but we were shooting blind, and I don't believe this is
good enough," said Peter Beattie, Premier of Queensland state.


The South Pacific needed more equipment, such as tide gauges and
satellite- linked buoys, to measure ocean movement so that
Australia and its neighbours could be better warned of tsunamis,
expert Gary Gibson said.


"It was so frustrating for the first few hours not to have
confirmation (of a tsunami)," said Gibson, chairman of the
executive committee of the US-based International Seismological
Centre.


"The Pacific has the best tsunami warning system in the world.
The South Pacific is not quite as well set up. You can be waiting
a long time to get information."


Gibson said Australia's warning system had been upgraded
following the devastating 2004 tsunami, caused by a massive
undersea quake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra.


That tsunami killed 200,000 people around the Indian Ocean
shoreline.


"It's a matter of priorities and the priority has been given to
the northwest coast because of the possibility of big earthquakes
from Indonesia," he said.


The Australian government has said it would review its system
after the Solomons tsunami, although its early warning system was
on track to be fully operational in 2009. By that time, officials
should be able to make more accurate predictions of tsunamis.


Monday's information vacuum led to some overreaction in
Australia, particularly in the northeastern city of Cairns, where
hundreds of residents attempted to drive to higher ground,
causing gridlock on low-lying roads.


That response, said Gibson, "was not based on reality."


Kevin McCue, director of the Australian Seismological Centre,
said Australian officials should have used historical data to
predict that any tsunami from the Solomons quake would not
present a danger here.


"We should have known we weren't going to have a damaging
tsunami," he told AFP. "I think it was just an overreaction to
Sumatra."


He said Australia should help neighbours such as Papua New Guinea
improve their warning systems by giving them equipment and
personnel.


But he said no amount of money would help those most at risk
escape a tsunami as there was only five minutes after a quake to
seek higher ground.


"They don't have telephones, they don't have power. There's no
way of alerting people on the ground in the most risky areas," he
said.


David Walsh, of the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre in Hawaii,
said there was a large network of water gauges in the South
Pacific which were used to determine the risk of tsunamis.


But he noted: "Many of the gauges are inoperable on any given
day."

