

Shares in E.ON, the biggest German power supplier, were the
biggest gainers on the Frankfurt stock exchange on Tuesday
following the announcement that it is dropping its record-
breaking takeover bid for Spanish electricity supplier Endesa.


E.ON shares topped an intraday high of 109.68 euros, up 7.58
euros or 7.4 percent on the day shortly after trading opened.


They subsequently came off their highs to show a gain of 6.46
percent at 108.70 euros.


After trying to get its hands on Endesa for more than a year,
E.ON announced late Monday that it was ceding victory to rival
bidders Acciona of Spain and Enel of Italy.


"Acciona's and Enel's involvement in Endesa has made our original
goal of acquiring a majority stake in Endesa impossible,"
explained chief executive Wulf Bernotat.


The Spanish construction and Italian power supplier together hold
around 46 percent in Endesa and have vowed to better E.ON's 42.3
-billion-euro (56-billion- dollar) bid, which is already the
biggest ever in the sector.


And E.ON would not be content with a minority stake either,
Bernotat continued.


"Obtaining a minority interest would have led to a stalemate
between the shareholders and triggered unpredictable lawsuits,"
he argued.


Thus, "the agreement we have reached with Enel and Acciona will
rapidly establish clarity for everyone involved. At the same
time, we will in one step establish attractive market positions
in Spain, Italy and France, which we look forward to developing
further," Bernotat said.


In return for ceding victory to Acciona and Enel, the two buyers
would agreed to sell 10 billion euros worth of key assets to
E.ON.


These included the Enel's Spanish power utility Viesgo, plus
additional Spanish generation capacity from Endesa, turning E.ON
into the fourth-biggest player in the Spanish market.


In Italy, E.ON would acquire E.ON Endesa Italia, making E.ON also
number four player in Italy.


And in France, E.ON would become the number three by buying
Endesa France/SNET.


Traders said that investors were relieved that the uncertainty
and any potential stalemate had been resolved.


And investors were now speculating on a substantial bonus
dividend as E.ON seeks to redistribute some of its huge mountain
of cash, they said.


UBS analyst Per Lekander said: "The agreement leaves E.ON with
the balance sheet flexibility to launch a buy-back program or
higher dividend."


The press welcomed the deal.


"For E.ON, the agreement is the last exit, but by no means a bad
one," the financial daily Boersen-Zeitung wrote in its leader
column.


The assets that E.ON was buying "will lay the foundation for the
first truly European energy supplier."


The business daily Handelsblatt agreed.


"Bernotat has not achieved his big dream. But the compromise is
very respectable. E.ON now has a good starting position in Spain,
Italy and France."


The daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung commented: "E.ON has
been negotiating for a bird in the hand rather than two in the
bush. But that is better than returning from Spain totally empty-
handed."

