

British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran on Tuesday that his
government would have to take increasingly tough decisions if 15
captive sailors are not quickly released.


Blair also said the next 48 hours could be crucial in the 12 day
old crisis, which Iran's Vice President Parviz Davoudi said could
be resolved if Britain admitted the naval personnel had illegally
entered Iranian waters.


The prime minister said Britain has had "two very clear tracks"
throughout the 12-day crisis, which has further strained
relations between Iran and the West.


"One is to try and settle this by way of peaceful, calm
negotiation, get our people back as quickly as possible ... The
other is to make it clear that if that's not possible, then we
have to take increasingly tougher decisions."


In Tehran, senior officials appeared to be taking a more
conciliatory tone over the 14 men and one woman who were seized
in the northern Gulf on March 23 accused of trespassing into
Iranian waters.


"London has changed its attitude for several days now and is
acting on the basis of negotiations," Vice President Davoudi told
reporters in the southern city of Bushehr where he was opening a
new installation at Iran's first nuclear power station.


"London must give guarantees and say that there was a violation
and there will be no other errors in the future. I think that the
problem heading in this direction and God willing will be
resolved soon."


Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani also said new
talks had started with Britain for resolving the crisis, which he
described as the first step towards finding a solution.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue."


Larijani also gave a rare interview to British television in an
apparent attempt to cool the boiling controversy over the capture
of the 15 marines and sailors.


He told Britain's Channel Four television there was "no need" to
put the group on trial, describing the stand-off as "quite
resolvable."


"I've read the transcripts of the interview (Larijani) gave and
that seems to offer some prospect but the most important thing is
to get these people back," Blair responded.


Britain, which unlike its ally the United States has diplomatic
relations with Iran, has kept up bilateral contacts throughout
the crisis and ambassador Geoffrey Adams was to meet foreign
ministry officials later Tuesday.


London maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters. Iran says that their Global
Positioning System (GPS) devices show they intruded into its
waters. Britain says their GPS information shows the crew were in
Iraqi waters.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


The atmosphere had also been soured by Iran's broadcast of
televised "confessions" of the sailors admitting that they
crossed into Iranian waters which have infuriated London.


However, in a possible sign of rapprochement, Iran refrained from
broadcasting the sound on more images of the sailors that were
shown on state television on Monday.


State television said all 15 sailors had given "frank
confessions," and admitted to illegally entering its waters.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had been scheduled to give a keenly
anticipated news conference on Tuesday but this has been
postponed "at the request of journalists," an official said.


In one of the first press comments on the crisis after the
Iranian New Year, the reformist Etemad Melli daily accused
Britain of deliberately intruding on Iranian waters.


"London's insistence on repeating such violations shows this
country was prepared to pay the price -- which is the detention
of its forces -- for carrying out this pre-meditated scenario."

