

Asian stocks closed sharply higher on Tuesday as many benchmarks
headed back towards historical highs with bargain hunters
emerging after mild gains were made on Wall Street overnight.


Sentiment also improved as oil prices eased somewhat alongside
tensions in the Middle East while the prospect of interest rate
cuts by some central banks and a stronger dollar, also spurred
buying.


Tokyo found additional support from a softer yen, which makes its
exports cheaper, and its benchmark rose 1.27 percent and this
lent support elsewhere in the region where Taipei gained 0.61
percent.


Bangkok was up 1.02 percent after signing a free trade agreement
with Japan while Jakarta surged 2.44 percent to a record high --
and like Thailand -- investors were also buying on hopes of an
interest rate cut.


Shanghai, up 1.19 percent, also finished in record territory as
Hong Kong rose 0.97 percent and broke through the critical 20,000
point barrier.


Sydney gained 1.65 percent, Wellington 0.89 percent, Singapore
1.30 percent  and Seoul 0.29 percent with all four markets
nearing their highest ever levels.


Mumbai rebounded off Monday's tumble to close up 1.36 percent,
Kuala Lumpur gained 0.84 percent and Manila was up 0.87 percent.


TOKYO: Share prices closed 1.27 percent higher as bargain hunters
emerged after Monday's sell-off, encouraged by a slightly softer
yen and modest gains on Wall Street.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 215.64 points to 17,244.05. Volume was
2.34 billion shares, unchanged from Monday.


"The market rebounded from (Monday's) dip and the softer yen,
which hovered at the 118 yen level against the dollar, also
supported market sentiment," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, chief
strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


But Nakanishi said the rebound looks weak considering that the
Nikkei-225 was trading between 17,500 and 18,000 points before
the global market sell-off that began in late February.


"The market has not found its direction yet," he said.


Investors were waiting for US data including fresh housing
figures and the pivotal monthly employment report due Friday,
dealers said.


"The US employment report later this week might set the tone for
the market," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg
Securities.


"But generally, investors will refrain from taking large
positions ahead of the results season in Japan and in the US
starting mid- to end-April," Mizutani added.


Nissan was up six yen at 1,265.


HONG KONG: Shares prices closed 0.97 percent higher as positive
leads from overseas markets, including Tokyo, helped the key
index regain the 20,000 points level.


Dealers said select blue chips and China-related stocks saw
strong buying while new listing CITIC 1616 Holdings was also in
focus as it posted sharp gains.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 193.0 points at 20,002.70. Turnover
was 40.01 billion dollars (5.1 billion US).


"The market did well on the back of firm overseas markets...
buying sentiment was quite strong especially in select blue chips
and China-related stocks, which led the benchmark index to rise
back to the 20,000-points level," said Peter Lai, sales director
at DBS Vickers.


However, he added that the market is unlikely to sustain at the
20,000 level Wednesday as investors may take quick profits ahead
of upcoming holidays and key US employment data later in the
week.


Lai also said the market lacks fresh trading leads to support
further gains.


HSBC was up 0.60 at 136.90.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.29 percent higher, extending gains
to a fourth day, with foreign investors focusing on Samsung
Electronics and Hynix ahead of results.


Dealers said although chipmakers are expected to report weak
numbers for the first quarter when the reporting season gets
underway next week, investors are betting on a recovery in global
IT demand in the second half.


Initial sentiment was buoyed by Wall Street's overnight advance
and a generally positive response to the US-South Korea free
trade deal but investors were reluctant to push prices so close
to the historic high of 1,471 points.


The KOSPI index ended up 4.22 points at 1,463.75. Volume was 335
million shares worth 3.6 trillion won (3.84 billion dollars).


"The market seems to lack the interest needed to rise through the
historic record," said Samsung Securities analyst Hwang Keum-Dan.


She said Monday's free trade accord with the US was largely
priced in and the recent run-up was driven by rotational interest
in shipbuilders, machinery, steelmakers, banks and insurers.


"Ahead of the corporate earnings season, some investors may feel
tempted to take profits on recent gains," she added.


Samsung Electronics added 8,000 won to 574,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.61 percent higher as sentiment was
bolstered by upbeat trade on Wall Street overnight and then
markets around the region.


Dealers said laggard financials bounced back and led rotational
play, with investors encouraged to expand their exposure to local
shares following the interest shown by institutional funds in
select stocks Monday.


Companies with an exposure to the China market also benefited
from gains this morning on the mainland equity markets.


The weighted index closed up 47.92 points at 7,932.91 on turnover
of 118.65 billion Taiwan dollars (3.6 billion US).


Fuhwa Securities Corp assistant vice president Samson Chueh said
the moderate advance in New York markets set the pace for local
trading, although caution ahead of the upcoming long holiday
weekend prevented traders from chasing prices much higher.


He said gains in China's stockmarkets provided additional
momentum for the local bourse.


"The mainland market's rise in the morning session encouraged
some to follow suit, injecting momentum into China plays."


Some firms were prevented from margin trading ahead of their
annual general meetings, limiting their transactions, he added.


Taiwan Business Bank closed up 0.30 Taiwan dollars at 10.05.


SHANGHAI: Share prices rose 1.19 percent for another record
finish on continued strong fund inflows, with property and
machinery stocks gaining ground.


Dealers said the increase turnover indicated fresh money was
coming into the market again while trade remained very healthy,
if not at the levels seen last week.


However, with the market having posted a series of record
performances over the past two weeks, some cautioned that a
correction could be in store as investors take profits,
especially ahead of the launch of index futures.


Such futures contracts are used to leverage and hedge risk in
established bourses but they can also increase volatility as
institutions typically try to push the market in their favour as
the contracts mature.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 38.70 points at 3,291.30
on turnover of 107.14 billion yuan (13.82 billion dollars).


"The increased turnover indicates that fresh capital has been
actively building positions after the key index continued to hit
record highs, with second-tier blue chips in favor on rotational
interest," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF Securities.


Dealers said that after the recent record-breaking performance,
there is a risk of a short-term correction.


Hudong Heavy Machinery was up its 10 percent daily limit at 89.10
yuan.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 1.65 percent higher, crossing the key
6,000 points mark for the first time in almost six weeks as
investors looked for bargains after Monday's losses.


Dealers said there was strong support for the big banks and
miners while the media and retail sectors were buoyed by takeover
activity.


The SP/ASX 200 rose 97.6 points to 6,013.4. Turnover was 1.63
billion shares worth 5.27 billion dollars (4.30 billion US).


"It's been a volatile time lately and often the sell-offs seem to
get overdone a little bit," CMC Markets chief equity analyst
David Land said.


Dealers said the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate
announcement on Wednesday should determine trading in the
holiday-shortened week, with a 25 basis point hike seen as a
50-50 bet.


Land said the major banks and insurers enjoyed a positive rebound
while the consumer stocks had a quiet session on concerns of the
interest rate hike.


BHP Billiton rose 0.74 dollars to 30.09.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 1.3 percent higher, boosted by
Wall Street's overnight rise and data showing robust demand for
residential properties here.


The Straits Times Index surged 42.05 points to 3,288.36 on volume
of 2.34 billion shares valued at 2.34 billion Singapore dollars
(1.55 billion US).


Banking and property stocks led the gains following a government
report showing that private residential property prices rose 4.6
percent in the three months to March from the previous quarter,
the strongest gain in seven years.


Looking ahead, dealers said they expect a general upside in the
benchmark index given strong economic fundamentals at home.
However, daily trading could be affected by overseas
developments, they added.


"The bull market environment remains very much intact with the
potential to reach new heights," Frasers Securities research head
Najeeb Jarhom said in a research note.


City Developments was up 0.20 at 14.90.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.84 percent higher in line
with regional markets as investors bought into oil and gas
related stocks.


A dealer from a local brokerage attributed gains to the strong
performance on regional bourses as well as positive leads
emerging from the domestic oil and gas sector over the past few
weeks.


"The announcement by Kencana Petroleum that it has secured
contracts for the Asia Petroleum Hub project further spurred
interest in oil and gas stocks," he said.


"This also can be regarded as rotational play with investors
expecting more good news from the oil industry," he added.


The composite index closed up 10.52 points at 1,256.82 on volume
of 1.81 billion shares valued at 2.188 billion ringgit (644
million dollars).


Meanwhile, SJ Securities head of research Cheah King Yoong said a
possible alliance between Proton and Volkswagen could provide a
further boost to the market.


"The Proton factor could be a big catalyst for the market
depending on what transpires between Proton and Volkswagen," he
added.


Proton fell 0.05 ringgit to 6.65.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 1.02 percent higher as sentiment was
upbeat in line with gains across the region, and after Thailand
signed a free trade agreement with Japan.


Dealers said the market also held firm amid growing hopes that
the Bank of Thailand would likely cut its key interest rate to
4.00 from current 4.50 percent at its policy board meeting next
week.


The composite index gained 6.91 points to 686.53 on turnover of
2.9 billion shares worth 13.8 billion baht (395 million dollars).


"The market rose as sentiment turned positive in line with
regional gains," said Kanang Duangmanee, an economist at Kasikorn
Research Center.


Sentiment was also upbeat after Bangkok and Tokyo signed a free-
trade pact, with the kingdom hoping that it would ease business
worries in Japan, the top investors in Thailand, about
protectionist policies since a September coup.


The Thai market was also steady amid rising hopes that the
central bank would slash its key interest rate to spur the
slowing economy.


"Growing hopes for the rate cut supported property-linked
shares," Kanang said.


Thai Airways International rose 1.75 to 45.50.


JAKARTA: Share prices rose 2.44 percent to a record high amid
optimism that interest rates will be cut further.


The composite index closed up 45.192 points at 1,894.576. Volume
was 3.09 billion shares valued at 4.53 trillion rupiah (498.07
million dollars).


Europeregrine Securities analyst Poltak Hotradero said the
market's gains were led by blue chips such as Telkom, Astra
International and Perusahaan Gas Negara, as well as banking
stocks.


"I think investors were expecting that the central bank will
further cut the (benchmark interest)," he said.


The rate currently stands at 9.0 percent and Bank Indonesia holds
its policy meeting on Thursday.


Hotradero said that foreign investors appeared to have returned
to the market, lured by upbeat company results and an improving
economy.


Bank Mandiri gained 150 rupiah to 2,675.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.57 percent higher due to follow-
through buying in blue chips and select second-liners ahead of
the long Easter break.


Dealers said a fall in benchmark Treasury Bill rates to record
lows had further driven up interest in stocks.


The composite index closed up 18.40 points at 3,248.00. A total
of  3.7 billion shares worth 4.4 billion pesos (91.96 million
dollars) changed hands.


"We were expecting weaker trading today because of the Easter
holidays, but the record-low interest rates became the impetus
for positioning in blue chips and select second liners," said
Chelsea Dipasupil of RCBC Securities Ltd.


Financial markets here will be closed on April 5, 6 and 9 for
public holidays.


"There is so much liquidity right now and it is the long-term
investors, not the punters and penny stock players, that are
snapping up issues," added Dipasupil.


Dealers said investors are more comfortable now coming back into
the market despite lingering concerns over the slowing US
economy, which have been keeping financial markets on edge.


Ayala Corp edged up five pesos to 570.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.89 percent higher, with market
leader Telecom again providing the main impetus.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 37.34 points to 4,175.29 on turnover
worth 140 million dollars (101.1 million US).


Like its Australian peer, the local market is now close to its
record finish of 4,211.61 posted in early February.


"We are seeing some institutional buying in this market and
that's following I think the start of the new financial year (on
April 1)," Hamilton Hindin Greene partner Grant Williamson said.


Telecom rose nine cents to 4.92 dollars, nearly matching Monday's
10 cents gain. The stock is rising on hopes of a large capital
return to shareholders following the sale of its Yellow Pages
division for 2.2 billion dollars.


"We really did expect this improvement, maybe up to the 5.00
dollar level, on expectations there'd be a reasonable payout come
May," Williamson said.


Fletcher Building rose 11 cents to 11.11.


MUMBAI: Share prices bounced back 1.36 percent on bargain-hunting
after posting the sharpest fall in nearly a year, a day earlier.


Dealers said sentiment remained subdued as investors fear India's
central bank could raise interest rates further to curb
inflation.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex closed up 169.21 points at 12,624.58.


On Monday, the Sensex slid 4.72 percent to 12,455.37, its biggest
one-day drop since May 18, 2006 after the central bank hiked a
key short-term lending rate by a quarter point to 7.75 percent.


Inflation is riding at 6.46 percent, nearly a percentage point
above the bank's tolerance range of 5.50 to 5.50 percent.


"This was a relief rally. The buying momentum is missing and we
expect weakness ahead," said Naresh Garg, chief investment
officer at private sector Sahara Mutual fund.


The market is now looking ahead to the central bank's quarterly
review of the economy on April 24 to determine if further rate
hikes are likely, with some hopeful that a tightening cycle that
began in 2004 will come to an end.

