

Nigerian Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday lost an appeal
against a decision by the electoral commission to bar him from
this month's presidential election.


An appeals court in Abuja ruled that Nigeria's Independent
Electoral Commission does have the power to disqualify a
candidate from running in the April 21 election.


"It is my considered view that not only has the appelant (the
electoral commission) the power to screen and disqualify
candidates but to remove the name of candidates without recourse
to court," a statement read by one of the judges, Rabiu Danlami
Mohammad, said.


"We are appealing immediately", Niyi Akintola, a lawyer of
Atiku's Action Congress (AC) party told journalists.


AC will have to take its appeal to the Supreme Court.


The case goes back to a feud between President Olusegun Obasanjo
and his deputy Atiku Abubakar over Obasanjo's attempt in 2006 to
have the constitution modified to allow him to run for a third
term in office.


One of the strongest opponents of that attempt was Abubakar.


Obasanjo, who failed to obtain the desired constitutional change,
subsequently vowed that he would not allow his deputy to succeed
him.


Abubakar was indicted on corruption charges, which some analysts
say were politically motivated.


He then defected from the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP)
to run under the banner of the opposition AC.


Obasanjo went to court to argue that defection from the PDP was
grounds enough to declare the seat of vice president vacant.


But a court on February 20 ruled against the president.


On March 15 INEC, while never formally saying it had barred Atiku
Abubakar from running, left his name off the list of candidates
that were approved to stand.


Abubakar was indicted earlier this year for misuse of public
funds linked to a petroleum fund that he was managing.


The Nigerian constitution bars anyone from becoming president if
he has been "indicted" by a tribunal for "fraud" or
"embezzlement".


However, the same constitution also gives total executive
immunity to the president, vice president and state governors
while in office.


Frustrated in his attempt to get a chance at a third term,
Obasanjo is determined his choice of successor, Umaru Yar'Adua,
the governor of the northern State of Katsina, should win the
presidential election for the PDP.


Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, an analyst at Eurasia group in New York,
commenting on the court case ahead of Tuesday's ruling, expressed
fears that "a ruling against Abubakar may also eviscerate
executive immunity and plunge the states and executive into
perpetual political prosecutions and crises".


Thursday will see another major judgement when the electoral
commission is expected to rule whether, because of section 37 of
the constitution, the recent death of a minor presidential
candidate, Adebayo Adefarati, should automatically trigger a
postponement of the elections.


Nigeria is scheduled to hold state governorship and state
assembly elections on April 14, ahead of presidential elections
on April 21.

