

A Briton lost an appeal here Tuesday against extradition to the
United States for allegedly hacking into US defence computers in
what has been dubbed the "biggest military hack of all time."


Gary McKinnon, an unemployed computer expert who lost his appeal
in the High Court, said he was searching for evidence of
Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) when he hacked into US
computers and was not intending to disrupt security.


Lord Justice Maurice Kay and Justice John Goldring dismissed his
challenge, saying: "We do not find any grounds of appeal."


However, Ben Cooper, representing the 41-year-old McKinnon, said
he would now try to have the House of Lords, Britain's highest
court, hear the case, including an alleged threat from US
prosecutors that "he would fry."


Home Secretary John Reid last year granted the US request to
extradite him for trial, but the defendant's lawyers argued that
the move would breach his human rights.


His supporters say McKinnon is being made a "scapegoat" for the
shortcomings of security policies on US military networks.


A US indictment alleges he deleted material from computers at US
naval weapon station Earle at a critical time following the
September 11, 2001 attacks, shutting down the base's entire
network of more than 300 computers.


McKinnon and his lawyers expressed fears he could be held
indefinitely without trial along with hundreds of terror suspects
in the US Navy's prison camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


Cooper also said that McKinnon had been suffering from ill health
during recent court hearings and was still receiving treatment
from doctors.


But the US government said it had given assurances to the British
government that it would not make McKinnon subject to "Military
Order Number One", which allows the US president to detain
suspects indefinitely.


McKinnon was indicted in November 2002 by a federal grand jury in
Alexandria, Virginia on seven counts of computer fraud and
related activity, the US justice department said on its website.


If found guilty in the United States, McKinnon faces on each
count a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a 250,000
dollar fine, it said.


Using software available for download on the Internet, McKinnon
allegedly hacked into computer networks operated by NASA, the US
Army, US Navy, Department of Defense and the US Air Force from
2001 to 2002.


The estimated loss to the various military organizations, NASA
and the private businesses was approximately 900,000 dollars
(730,000 euros), it said.


McKinnon was first arrested in 2002 before action against him was
discontinued. He was arrested again in London in June 2005 by the
extradition unit of the Metropolitan Police.


McKinnon denied the damages he was alleged to have caused,
claiming it was impossible for one person to bring down an entire
computer system, though he has admitted to "unauthorized access"
to US computers, which he regretted.

