

Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr met with Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin on Tuesday on the final day of his visit to
France to discuss prospects for resuming aid.


Abu Amr described the one-hour meeting as "excellent", but
declined to give details.


The foreign minister arrived in Paris on Sunday to discuss a
resumption of aid to the Palestinian government that was frozen
in March 2006 after the radical Hamas movement came to power in
elections last year.


French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said following
talks on Monday that the Palestinian government must take
additional steps, including freeing a French-Israeli soldier
captured in the Gaza Strip, before aid can resume.


"This is the next step that we await from the Palestinian
government and which will led us to confirm the stance that we
are taking today," said Douste-Blazy.


Corporal Gilad Shalit, who is a citizen of both France and
Israel, was abducted in a cross-border raid last June by
militants from three groups, including the armed wing of Hamas,
and there has been no sign of life from him since.


His capture sparked a major Israeli offensive against the Gaza
Strip that left hundreds of Palestinians dead.


Abu Amr said Monday that the Palestinian authorities were working
"to obtain as quickly as possible the liberation of Shalit within
the framework of an honorable prisoner exchange."


The Palestinian foreign minister is an independent in the new
government formed in March that unites Hamas with moderates in
hope that the West will lift an aid and diplomatic embargo.


The visit by Abu Amr in Paris and talks in Rome on Monday between
information minister Mustafa Barghuti are the first forays in
Europe by representatives of the unity government, which is
seeking renewed aid.


The ministers asked Europe to recognize the Palestinian
government as a whole and not make distinctions for ministers
from Hamas, branded a terrorist organisation by the European
Union and the United States for calling for the destruction of
Israel.

