

As thousands of wine pros descend on Bordeaux for the annual
seven-day "primeur" tasting of the most recent vintage, merchants
and producers are describing the 2006 wine harvest and its sales
as "difficult".


The vintage faces three problems: a hangover from the high price
of the so- called 2005 "vintage of the century", patchy 2006
weather and internal wrangling inside the Bordeaux wine world
that has led to one wine classification being suspended and
another cancelled.


As far back as November, wine merchants in France and abroad were
calling on producers to reduce 2006 prices by 40 percent against
last year's incredible highs -- the highest an Ausone 2005,
released ex-chateau for 500 euros per bottle, but which in a
matter of 24 hours was trading at 1200 euros per bottle.


This is for wine not yet in a bottle. Wine futures, which are
tasted in April, are sold the following May and June, two years
prior to actual bottling and delivery.


Secondly there was the 2006 weather. "We were well on our way to
another great vintage in June and July, then it all started
falling to pieces," said Bill Blatch, a Bordeaux based wine
merchant.


An extremely hot July was followed by a cold damp August, then a
heat wave in early September, causing problems with rot in damp
vineyards that had not been well pruned and de-leafed.


While 2005 was a "deck chair vintage", meaning you could sit in
the sun and watch it grow, 2006 was all hands on deck in the
vineyard and during winemaking, said Jean Christophe Mau, wine
merchant and owner of Chateau Brown in Pessac Leognan.


"2006 was a winemaker's vintage, you had to work to make it
good," he said.


The results, where good, are considered to be classic Bordeaux
with good acidity, tannins and fruit, but these are not crowd
pleasers.


"The best wines are classic in style, the question is can we sell
classic Bordeaux anymore?" asked Elliot Burgess, a US-based wine
buyer.


The dominant US market has a preference for fruit driven wines,
which often score well with renowned wine critic Robert Parker,
who was in Bordeaux the week before last.


"Robert felt the 2006 vintage was less uniformly successful than
2005 but in the early ripening areas, like Pomerol, there were
some wines he considered even better than 2005," said Jeffrey
Davies, a Bordeaux-based Californian wine buyer who works with
Parker.


That is good news for Pomerol.


In terms of prices, which will not be released until May at the
earliest, Davies too warned it was vital for producers to stay
close to 2004 levels. "Euro prices will already be 15 to 20 per
cent higher, just because of currency fluctuations, in dollar and
yen terms," he warned.


But while buyers, who still have stocks of last year's expensive
vintage, are expected to go softly-softly this year, many
producers are not under pressure to sell.


"Stocks are low in Bordeaux, there is space to store wine, and
people made money last year, so the prices won't go down enough,"
said Jean Luc Thunevin, a St Emilion wine-grower and merchant.


"I've heard the big guys won't be dropping their prices at all,
which is crazy, said David Hopgood, a Canadian wine importer.


For the most sought-after wines, such as Ausone, Petrus, Mouton
or Lafite, keeping prices high is not a problem as they are in a
luxury goods class and demand consistently outstrips supply.


However, the twofold concern this year is that high prices will
reinforce the general image of Bordeaux wines as being too
expensive, and that as buyers spend more and more at the top end
to keep their annual allocations of the most sought-after wines,
they will economise on the mid range.


"There are so many good quality, affordable wines out there. It
would be a pity for the expensive wines at the top end to ruin
life for them," Hopgood said.


The third factor in play this week is the April 30 suspension of
the prestigious St Emilion wine classification. This follows a
recent cancellation of the mid- range Cru Bourgeois
classification. In both cases, classifications were taken to
court by chateaux that had been demoted, claiming judgement had
not been impartial.


Despite the local nature of the classification issues, with up to
4,000 journalist and wine professionals in town for the primeurs,
the divisions will not go unnoticed as they might have at another
time of year.

