

They watch MTV, surf the Web, have iPods, play video games and
eat at fast food restaurants.


And, no, they're not your average US teenager, but people over
the age of 100 who shared the secrets of their longevity for a
study released Tuesday by Evercare, a health provider for the
elderly in the United States.


"To stay in tune has health benefits," said Sherri Snelling,
director of Evercare, which questioned 100 centenarians for the
survey. "These centenarians do know about current trends.


"Whether or not they are utilizing them, they understand what is
current in our society."


Apart from staying on top of the latest trends, those questioned
said healthy lifestyles and religious faith kept them young. They
also emphasized that maintaining the brain was also very
important in keeping them going.


Snelling said the phone survey conducted in February provides an
insight into the lives of a small but growing segment of the
population.


"It gives us a snapshot and useful anecdotal information that
will help us understand what it is that keeps Americans healthy,
happy and independent in getting older," she said.


Of the 70 women and 30 men questioned in the second annual
survey, 70 percent still live at home and, like the rest of their
fellow US citizens, say they follow the newest fads like reality
television, video games and iPods, all the while keeping up with
current events.


Sixty eight percent said they rely on television as their primary
source of news while 40 percent said they still read newspapers.
Only 10 percent use the radio for information.


According to the US Census Bureau, there are currently 80,000
centenarians in the United States, but that number is projected
to increase seven-fold, to 580,000, by 2040 as the post-1945 baby
boomer generation ages.


Of the centenarians questioned in the Evercare survey, 72 percent
have eaten at fast food restaurants, 31 percent have watched
reality TV shows and 27 percent have watched MTV or music videos.


One out of four (24 percent) have bought CDs while 15 percent
have played video games; six percent have surfed the Internet and
four percent have listened to music on iPods. Eleven percent said
they have tried coffee at Starbucks.


Health-wise, 23 percent say they have ever smoked cigarettes, and
on average, those who quit did so 41 years ago.


More than three quarters (82 percent) say that their dietary
habits have improved or stayed the same as compared to 50 years
ago.


On the political front, 34 percent believe Franklin D. Roosevelt
(1933-1945) was the best American president, followed by 15
percent who feel that way about Ronald Reagan (1981-1989) and
nine percent John F. Kennedy (1961-1963).


Former president Bill Clinton, at five percent, fared slightly
better than the current President George W. Bush who was favored
by three percent.


As far as music, jazz, gospel and classical music were top picks
by those questioned, although pop stars like Michael Jackson and
the Dixie Chicks were also mentioned.


For 28 percent, the most beautiful day of their life was their
wedding day, while the birth of a child or their 100th birthday
tied for second place.


One adventurous centenarian, however, said his best memory was
when he learned to fly at age 76.

