

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko, the hero of the 2004
"Orange Revolution," has made what may be the biggest gamble of
his political life in ordering the dissolution of parliament.


And it is a gamble that in the end, analysts said, it is likely
to benefit only his rivals.


Often criticized as being too soft, the pro-Western Yushchenko
showed unexpected firmness late Monday in decreeing the
dissolution of parliament live on television.


He accused the pro-Russian coalition government under Prime
Minister Viktor Yanukovych as "usurping power" and violating the
constitution.


Yanukovych's supporters quickly denounced the president's move as
"anti- constitutional" and refused to carry it out.


Commentators said the dissolution was a desperate move that would
likely play into the hands of the president's rivals, Yanukovych
and his former "Orange Revolution" ally Yulia Tymoshenko.


"He yielded to pressure and did what Yulia wanted," said Mykhailo
Pogrebinsky, a political analyst with ties to Yanukovych's
government.


Tymoshenko pushed hardest for the decree dissolving parliament,
Pogrebinsky said, and polls show she has the most to gain from a
new parliamentary poll.


"I am surprised, I hoped that that it would not go so far. It
exceeds any rational logic."


If she returned to her former role as prime minister, Tymoshenko
could eclipse the president and become the de facto number one in
the country, said Volodymyr Fesenko, an analyst at the Penta
think tank.


The crisis marks the latest clash in Ukrainian politics during
the two years of bitter wrangling that have followed Yushchenko's
rise to power in January 2005.


The "Orange Forces" led by Tymoshenko and Yushchenko failed to
cooperate, paving the way for Yanukovych to become prime minister
last August.


The cohabitation of the president, who supports closer ties with
the West including NATO membership, and the prime minister, who
favours closer ties with Moscow, has become increasingly tense as
the as parliament has managed to eat away at Yushchenko's powers.


The president's role now resembles the ceremonial role of the
British Queen, the weekly magazine Stolychniye Novosti joked,
suggesting that his hand was forced in dissolving parliament.


"The president understood that he soon may not be (president) any
more," the paper wrote.


Vadim Karasev, the director of the Institute of Global Strategies
in Kiev, echoed the sentiment.


"What other option did the president have? To look on in silence
as the pro- Russians seized all of his power?" said Karasev.


Russian daily Kommersant said Yushchenko was not guaranteed the
support of his traditional Western allies in the crisis.


"The US and Europe are not elated at the idea of the government
of Viktor Yanukovych ... But they clearly recognize there that
the dissolution of the Verkhovna Rada (parliament) could put the
situation in Ukraine completely out of control."

