

Candidates battling for the keys of the White House are already
off to a record- breaking 80 million dollar start to a campaign
that could morph into America's first billion dollar election.


Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Mitt Romney both pulled
in more than 20 million dollars each in the first three months of
this year up to a fundraising deadline which elapsed Saturday,
smashing all previous highs.


And with rising star Democrat Barack Obama yet to reveal the
result of his own vigorous attempts to fill his 2008 White House
treasure trove, the candidates' combined first-quarter take could
swell over 100 million dollars.


The previous record in money raised for all Republican and
Democratic candidates at the corresponding period of presidential
campaigns was 30.9 million, set in 2003.


The unofficial 2007 combined first quarter total announced or
reported up until late Monday stood at approximately 88 million
dollars. Campaigns must file final accounts to the Federal
Election Commission by April 15.


Clinton started the stunning roll of fundraising announcements on
Sunday, reporting a 26 million dollar first-quarter windfall --
the most ever raised by a presidential candidate in the
corresponding three months of a campaign.


She added a further 10 million dollars to her 2008 presidential
bid, left over in her Senate account from her successful 2006
reelection campaign.


Romney raised eyebrows and injected immediate credibility into a
campaign that had seen him languishing in Republican polls,
outpacing current and former front-runners Rudolph Giuliani and
Senator John McCain.


He raised 20.6 million dollars to be used in the fight for the
Republican nomination and loaned his campaign a further 2.3
million dollars, aides to the former Massachusetts governor said
Monday.


"Governor Romney is winning over voters and supporters because he
is the candidate with the best ideas and the most detailed vision
for leading the country into the future," said his spokesman
Kevin Madden.


Giuliani, the former New York mayor who shot to prominence during
the horror of the September 11 attacks in 2001, and who leads
opinion polls on the Republican side, piled 15 million dollars
into his campaign account in the first three months.


"We are thrilled by the response to Mayor Giuliani's optimistic
vision, experienced leadership and proven record of results,"
Giuliani's campaign manager Mike DuHaime said, noting his
candidate had a "late start" in the dash for dollars.


The Republican favorite's war chest now amounted to almost 17
million dollars, including money raised at an event in December,
and the campaign had brought in 10 million dollars in March
alone, DuHaine said.


An aide to former Republican front-runner McCain, who was in Iraq
Monday, said he had raised 12.5 million dollars, and admitted the
campaign was disappointed.


"We had hoped to do better in first quarter fundraising," said
campaign manager Terry Nelson.


But McCain joined Romney and Giuliani in bettering the previous
record for a Republican at this stage of the campaign -- 7.6
million dollars in 1999 -- by then Texas governor George W. Bush.


The huge early fundraising hauls were an indicator of the ultra-
competitive nature of the race, nearly 10 months before the first
ballots are cast in party nominating contests.


The 2008 election is tipped by experts to be the most expensive
presidential poll on record, with some estimates reaching one
billion dollars.


The 2004 presidential election, eventually won by President
George W. Bush over Democratic challenger Senator John Kerry saw
candidates raise 701 million dollars in fundraising, according to
the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics.


Among other candidates, Democratic candidate John Edwards piled
up 14 million dollars so far this year. Senator Joseph Biden said
he expected to raise around three million dollars and his fellow
Democratic Senator Chris Dodd raised four million, and
transferred another five million from his Senate account.


New Mexico Democratic Governor Bill Richardson reportedly raised
six million dollars.


Previously, the most money ever declared by a candidate after the
first quarter of a year preceding a presidential year was 13.5
million dollars by former Republican senator Phil Gramm, in 1995,
but he quickly faded from the 1996 race.


Gramm's total included 4.8 million dollars transferred from his
Senate account.


For the 2000 race, former vice president Al Gore collected 8.9
million dollars in the first quarter of 1999.

