

Nepal's elderly Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala said Tuesday
he had gambled his 60-year political career to strike a deal with
Maoist rebels and bring peace to the Himalayan country.


The veteran leader's comments came after former rebels were sworn
into a new interim government Sunday, a major step in a peace
process that ended a decade of civil war.


"We have managed to bring the Maoists to the mainstream. A new
chapter is going on in Nepal," Koirala, seen as an elder
statesman of national politics, told a conference of South Asian
nations in New Delhi.


"I have gambled 60 years of my political career," Koirala said in
a speech on the opening day of the two-day South Asian
Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) conference.


Koirala recalled how he felt strongly that discussions with the
Maoist rebels were needed to end the conflict which claimed more
than 13,000 lives.


"I wanted to have a dialogue with the Maoists but was told by
many that 'terrorists are not to be believed'," he told leaders
of the eight nations belonging to SAARC which includes India,
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.


Now "they (Maoists) have come within the democratic framework"
and "the situation has calmed down," said the veteran Nepalese
leader.


The 85-year-old Koirala, who has been in poor health, said he had
travelled to New Delhi against the advice of his doctors to bring
news of developments in his homeland.


"Doctors had told me not to attend SAARC because of my ill health
but I could not resist the temptation to come here," he said.


Former Maoist rebels hold five portfolios in a cabinet tasked
with steering impoverished Nepal into new elections on June 20,
which will lead to a decision whether the country keeps its
monarchy.


Koirala said that as a democrat he could not be merely a silent
spectator.


"I thought, if I fail, the nation should not fail as it would be
my personal loss," he said.


As well as fighting for democracy in Nepal, Koirala was also
involved with the Indian independence movement against British
colonial rule.

