

Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen vowed Tuesday not to dump his
coalition government partner, despite the junior party's dismal
showing in local polls held at the weekend.


The royalist Funcinpec party won just two of Cambodia's 1,621
commune councils -- small administrative bodies that govern rural
villages or city neighbourhoods -- contested in Sunday's vote.


Hun Sen said that despite Funcinpec's apparent decline, his own
ruling Cambodian People's Party (CPP) wanted to "maintain
stability" going into next year's national polls.


"(Funcinpec) will not be removed from the government before the
2008 elections, even though this removal is not difficult," he
said at a regional economic conference in the capital Phnom Penh.


"We need to work together," he added.


A constitutional amendment pushed through by lawmakers in March
2006 changed the requirements for a parliamentary majority,
effectively handing the legislature over to the CPP.


The move ended a power-sharing arrangement between the CPP and
Funcinpec that had been in place since Cambodia's UN-sponsored
elections in 1993, and was followed by a purge of royalist
officials from top government posts.


But the coalition has been left in place as Cambodia, which is
recovering from decades of civil war, embarks on a crucial bid
for regional legitimacy.


"Funcinpec will still be a reliable partner after the 2008
elections," Hun Sen said, although he did not indicate whether
the royalists would again be asked to form a coalition.


Funcinpec has been weakened by infighting and the sacking of its
president Prince Norodom Ranariddh.


The opposition Sam Rainsy Party, on the other hand, more than
doubled the number of commune councils it had held previously,
saying Tuesday it had won 28 top council seats.


Party leader Sam Rainsy said he hoped these gains would translate
into more power after the 2008 polls, but also said record-low
voter turnout handed the CPP an unfair victory.


"Without the organized confusion on voting day, there would have
been an additional 1.7 million actual voters, most of them non-
CPP supporters," he said in a statement.


"The election result would have been completely different," he
added.

