

President George W. Bush is expected to remain defiant Tuesday
one day after Democrats hardened their position on linking Iraq
war funding to a troop pullout deadline.


Bush is scheduled to make a statement on the over-100 billion
dollar Iraq and Afghanistan war budget legislation at around
10:10 am (1410 GMT) after weeks of demanding the funding without
the Democrat's added requirement for a timetable to end the US
presence in Iraq.


For weeks Bush has threatened to veto the legislation which has
passed the House of Representatives and the Senate in two
versions, and now awaits reconciliation into one bill before
being forwarded to Bush.


On Monday Senate Democrats raised the stakes in the bitter fight
themselves, unveiling a new bid to cut off nearly all funding for
the Iraq war after March 31, 2008 if Bush vetoes the bill they
plan to submit to the White House.


Co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senator
Russ Feingold, the new Democrat measure would cut funding for
most Iraq war operations after March 31, 2008, the date already
set as a goal for withdrawal of most combat troops in the 122
billion war budget bill passed by the Senate.


It would permit funding only for operations against Al-Qaeda,
training and equipping Iraqi troops and protecting US personnel
and installations.


"If the president vetoes the supplemental appropriations bill and
continues to resist changing course in Iraq, I will work to
ensure this legislation receives a vote in the Senate in the next
work period," Reid said.


Feingold said in an email message to supporters that the bill
would use "Congress's constitutional 'power of the purse'
authority to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq by March 31,
2008."


"Our bill funds the troops, it just de-funds the war," he said.


The legislation, to be officially unveiled on April 10 when the
Senate returns from its Easter break, would almost certainly face
a veto by Bush.


But it is a high-stakes poker game: Democrats lack majorities
required to overcome a Bush veto, and they are depending on
widespread fatigue over the war to keep the public on their side.


But the White House is playing strongly to the public as well,
declaring that Congress was going to deny US soldiers adequate
funding to do their jobs, and meanwhile give the enemy a
timetable to take over.


Vice President Dick Cheney warned Monday the United States faced
defeat in Iraq if Democrats succeed in imposing withdrawal.


"It's time the self-appointed strategists on Capitol Hill
understood a very simple concept: You cannot win a war if you
tell the enemy you're going to quit," Cheney said in prepared
remarks.


"When members of Congress speak not of victory but of time
limits, deadlines, or other arbitrary measures, they're telling
the enemy to simply watch the clock and wait us out," he charged.


"It's time for Congress to stop the political theater and send
the president a bill he can sign into law."


But Democrats said it was necessary if Bush fails to bow to the
public will.


"We'll fund the war in three month increments. We're going to
keep you on a tighter string," said Senator Barack Obama.


Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the public no longer supported
the war.


"As more and more Americans demand to see the troops get out of
what is clearly a civil war, this administration stubbornly
continues to stick its head in the sand," Manley said.


Democratic and Senate negotiators are spending the current recess
in Congress reconciling the House and Senate versions of the
budget bill that can be sent to Bush's desk.


The House version of the war budget contains a withdrawal
deadline of August 31, 2008.

