

Insurgents killed four more US troops in Iraq as warplanes
destroyed two bomb factories on Tuesday in a bid to cut insurgent
supply lines into Baghdad, where bombings continue to defy an
armed crackdown.


One soldier died from a suicide truck bombing in the contested
northern oil capital of Kirkuk that targeted a police station
where American forces were visiting at the time, and damaged a
girls' primary school.


The bomb -- hidden under packs of flour in a new tactic designed
to lull victims into a false sense of security -- killed 13
Iraqis, including eight schoolgirls and a toddler. Another two
American soldiers were wounded.


The second soldier died on Monday in a roadside bomb blast
alongside his vehicle during combat operations near Baghdad,
while a third soldier and a marine were killed in fighting in the
western Anbar province on Monday.


The rising body count that shows no sign of relenting four years
after the American military invaded Iraq to oust Saddam Hussein
is fuelling growing opposition to the war in the United States
and calls for troops to come home.


The latest fatalities brought US military losses in Iraq since
the March 2003 invasion to 3,254, according to an AFP count based
on Pentagon figures.


Since the launch of a massive security operation in Baghdad in
February, Iraqi and US troops have reduced execution-style
killings in the capital, but car bombings carried out by
suspected Sunni militants remain a major headache.


In a bid to stem the flow of explosives into Baghdad, the
military is now focusing on detecting bomb-making facilities
largely on the outskirts.


Aircraft on Tuesday destroyed two large buildings which the
Americans said were used to manufacture and store explosives in
the town of Arab Jubur, south of the capital.


"Ground forces called in for air support when they found large
amounts of chemicals and improvised-explosive-device making
materials in two buildings," the military said.


In an operation targeting presumed Al-Qaeda fighters near Anbar's
former rebel town of Fallujah, a US warplane killed six
"terrorists" in an air strike while forces on the ground arrested
another seven, the military said.


Another group of Iraqi workers was abducted overnight in the
flashpoint province of Diyala, less than 24 hours after the
bodies of 21 Shiites snatched in similar circumstances were
found.


The nine electrical company employees were kidnapped at gunpoint
on their way home from work near Khalis, a Shiite town repeatedly
bombed by presumed Sunni extremists in their campaign of
sectarian violence.


US President George W. Bush, who has vowed to veto Congressional
demands for most troops to withdraw within 12 months, spoke to
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki on pressing home the
security crackdown to the end.


"Both leaders agreed on the importance of the present security
plan for Baghdad and other areas of Iraq and agreed that these
plans must be carried out until lasting success can be achieved,"
said a White House spokesman.


Gordon Johndroe also said Maliki had assured Bush he would "press
forward" on key legislation such as a reform bill to encourage
Sunnis back into mainstream politics and away from fighting.


Other attacks killed three civilians in Baghdad and three
policemen in other cities on Tuesday, in a toll considerably less
than the daily body count reported by security officials in
recent days.

