

Hardline anti-immigration legislator Tom Tancredo has officially
joined the race for the Republican nomination for US president,
declaring that 20 million illegal immigrants are threatening the
US economy and security.


"I am running for President to give Americans a voice, to win
this fight, to preserve the sacred ideals of the nation our
soldiers are fighting to protect, and to succeed in this struggle
for our identity and survival," the Colorado representative said
in a statement on his website Tuesday.


"While we fight around the world to defend our nation, we are
entrenched now in a struggle here at home to define it. The
crisis of illegal immigration threatens not only our economy and
our security, but our very identity.


"Nearly 20 million illegal aliens are living in the United States
today -- roughly equivalent to the populations of New York, Los
Angeles, Chicago, Houston, and Philadelphia combined. Unlike
legal immigrants, who have for more than 200 years come to be a
part of our nation, illegal immigrants today come to be apart
from our nation."


"For too long Americans have been force-fed candidates who ignore
or mock their valid concerns about the security of our borders,
the enforcement of our immigration laws, and the survival of our
national heritage. That ends today."


Tancredo declared he was joining the race in an interview on a
radio station in Iowa Monday, one of the premier testing grounds
for presidential hopefuls of both parties.


His move was not a surprise; in January he had announced the
formation of an exploratory committee for a run for the White
House.


He joins a crowded field of seven other declared candidates,
including front- running moderate Rudolph Giuliani, who gained
national prominence as New York's mayor during the September 11,
2001 attacks.


Tancredo's announcement came hot on the heals of another
prominent Republican joining the race, Tommy Thompson, a former
governor and former member of President George W. Bush's cabinet,
who threw his hat in the ring on Sunday.


Both Democrat and Republican nominees for the November 2008
presidential contest will be selected in a series of primary
votes early next year.

