

The Rugby Football Union (RFU) has threatened to sue English
clubs if they follow their French counterparts and pull out of
next season's European Cup.


The warning came after Monday's warning by the 12 English
Premiership sides that if French clubs boycotted the competition
they would follow suit.


The row that has brought the European Cup to the brink was
triggered by the Premiership clubs' call for some of the RFU
shares in European Rugby Cup Limited, in addition to greater
voting rights.


Premier Rugby - the clubs' umbrella body - argue the European Cup
would not be a genuine European competition without the French
teams.


But RFU management board chairman Martyn Thomas insisted the
clubs were contracted to participate in the European Cup and
confirmed Twickenham would pursue legal action against them if
they refuse.


He told BBC Radio Four on Tuesday: "We have a contract with our
clubs which we signed in 2001 and in relation to Europe it is
very simple.


"It says the clubs will compete in the European Cup or the
European Shield. That lasts until 2007 so I am at a loss to
understand their statement last night that they believe they can
pull out."


Asked whether the RFU would have to sue Premier Rugby, Thomas
added: "Regrettably that would be the case. Unfortunately again
it is a situation of rugby having to resort to the courts."


The LNR, which represents the top 14 French sides, is likely to
decide by Thursday whether or not to walk away.


Concern at the RFU's refusal to hand over share and voting rights
- plus anxiety over fixture congestion next season, which starts
with the Rugby World Cup - are behind the militant French stance.


Thomas remains hopeful an agreement can be reached but Premier
Rugby chief executive Mark McCafferty is less optimistic.


"I'm going to continue to find a way to pull the French clubs
back in but today the prospect of that, when the French clubs
decide on Thursday, doesn't look great," McCafferty said.


Thomas and the RFU believe the European Cup issue forms part of a
wider picture of negotiations on how the game is run in England
and should not be taken in isolation.


"We have always maintained the critical issue is to sort out the
difficulty of the season and the production of good elite players
in England," Thomas said.


"The Heineken Cup is very important but it is part of the bigger
picture and the most important picture is about player welfare
and a successful England."


The English club's threatened boycott was greeted with bitter
irony by French Federation chief Bernard Lapasset, who had won a
reprieve from the French clubs last week to delay their deadline
voer the boycott.


"I find the English clubs' decision, extraordinarily courageous,"
he said sarcastically.


"It provokes this reflection from me 'Mister Frenchman, fire the
first shot'.


"I do not find this very courageous. All it does is send the ball
back into the French court."

