

Mitt Romney, Republican presidential hopeful, has trounced better
known rivals with a 20 million dollar charge to the front of his
party's fundraising stakes, sending a jolt of credibility through
his campaign.


Romney, 60, a former Massachusetts governor and successful
businessman, who outpaced current and past Republican front-
runners Rudolph Giuliani and John McCain, is hoping to become
America's first Mormon president.


But he faces stiff challenges as his presidential bid gathers
pace, nearly 10 months before first votes are cast for the
Republican nomination.


Romney's critics have claimed he has ditched moderate positions
on issues like gun control and abortion that helped him in
liberal Massachusetts, in a bid to court core conservative
Republican voters.


At the recent Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in
Washington, activists of rival campaigns mocked his political
evolution, one man in a dolphin costume wandered around saying
his name was "Romney Flip." "Romney flip- flop" shoes were also
on offer.


But Romney emerged from the meeting, the spiritual home of US
conservatives, at the head of a straw poll for most popular
candidate, albeit with only 21 percent of the vote.


Romney's religion, viewed with suspicion in some parts of the
United States could also be an obstacle, with some polls
suggested Americans are more prepared to vote for a female, or a
black candidate than a member of the Mormon faith.


His money-spinning prowess, revealed after Saturday's first-
quarter 2007 presidential fundraising deadline, belies his
current position in the polls and outstripped analyst
expectations.


Romney has languished well behind Giuliani and McCain in most
opinion surveys of the Republican race, often ending up in single
figures, and has so far failed to make a national breakthrough.


In the first three months of the year, Romney raised 20.6 million
dollars to be used in the fight for the Republican nomination and
loaned his campaign a further 2.3 million dollars, aides said
Monday.


Former New York mayor Giuliani piled 15 million dollars into his
campaign account in the first three months.


An aide to former Republican front-runner McCain, who was in Iraq
Monday, said he had raised 12.5 million dollars, and admitted the
campaign was disappointed.


Elected governor of Massachusetts in 2002, Romney decided not to
run for a second term in last November's elections, and has never
made any secret of his ambition to seek higher office.


A Boston businessman, Romney first entered politics in 1994, when
he unsuccessfully stood against Ted Kennedy for Massachusetts
senator.


It was on his reputation as a good manager that he was elected in
2002 as governor for Massachusetts, then facing budgetary
difficulties.


The son of the former governor of Michigan, Romney was born in
Detroit in 1947, and has been married for 37 years to Ann Davies,
with whom he has five sons and 10 grandchildren.


His father, George, ran for the Republican candidacy in the 1968
presidential election but lost out to Richard Nixon.


As governor, Romney was an outspoken critic of gay marriage,
despite Massachusetts being the only US state to allow the
practice, and is now considered anti-abortion, tough on
immigration and pro-capital punishment.


He made his money as a businessman and chief executive of a
management consultancy firm and later investment company.


Later in his career, he was called in to rescue the scandal-
plagued organization of the Salt Lake City, 2002 Winter Olympics.

