

A Pakistani policeman who led the probe into the murder of US
reporter Daniel Pearl will travel to Jamaica to help police
investigating the death of cricket coach Bob Woolmer, officials
said Tuesday.


Senior police investigator Mir Zubair Mahmood is being
accompanied by another security official and both are expected to
leave on Wednesday, Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Naseem Ashraf
told AFP.


"We are sending two highly qualified investigators to Jamaica
including Mir Zubair, who had resolved the Daniel Pearl case,"
Ashraf said.


"The investigators will not only assess the Jamaican police, they
will find out the progress in the investigation so far. They will
stay till the outcome of the final probe," he added.


Wall Street Journal reporter Pearl was kidnapped in the southern
city of Karachi January 2002 while researching a story on Islamic
extremists. A video of his decapitation was later delivered to
the US consulate.


Police quickly caught a British-born militant, Sheikh Omar, and
three Pakistani militants in connection with the crime. They were
sentenced to death in 2002 but have appealed against the verdict.


Investigator Zubair said his new task was a major challenge as
all Pakistanis wanted to know who killed Woolmer, who was found
strangled at the Pegasus Hotel on March 18.


"It's a big, big responsibility on our shoulders and I hope we
will be able to live up to the expectations," he said.


The investigator said however that Woolmer's case was still being
handled by the Jamaican police, under Jamaican law, he said.


"Our terms of reference are limited. We will only assess them and
exchange information," Zubair said.


Pakistani officials have privately expressed frustration at the
pace of the probe into the murder of Woolmer, which came a day
after Pakistan were knocked out of the cricket World Cup


Jamaican detectives leading the inquiry said Monday they were
studying the possibility that poison was used to incapacitate the
burly coach before he was strangled.


However, the fact detectives are still awaiting toxicology
reports on Woolmer more than two weeks after his death has led to
questions over whether Jamaica's criminal justice system is
capable of handling such a complex inquiry.


Four police officers from Britain's Scotland Yard are due to
arrive in Kingston on Tuesday to review the course of the
investigation.


Ashraf, who was himself due to leave for South Africa Tuesday to
attend the memorial service for Woolmer, reiterated that no
Pakistani player or official had any role in Woolmer's death.


"I can say in categorical terms that no Pakistani player or
officials have anything to do with this crime," he said.

