

First the quake crumpled their homes, then the tsunami finished
off what was left. For Gizo's fearful residents, Tuesday offered
little else to do but huddle on a hill overlooking the coast.


A day after a powerful quake and tsunami devastated the town in
the western Solomon Islands, aftershocks continued to rumble
underneath.


For many -- as for thousand of others throughout the province --
there is nothing to go home to.


Many homes, mostly built on stilts, were destroyed or badly
damaged by the 8.0-magnitude quake early Monday centred just 45
kilometres (28 miles) away.


Hundreds of houses, government buildings and businesses in low
lying areas of the town were finished off by the wall of water
which followed soon after.


According to the Office of Emergency Management, the quake and
tsunami left at least 24 people dead, many of them in and around
Gizo, and more than 5,400 homeless.


"Basically everybody is still up on high ground because we are
still receiving really quite major aftershocks," said Danny
Kennedy, a local dive shop owner and member of the Western
Province government.


"People are just scared to the coastal area because a lot of
people don't have things to go back to," Kennedy told AFP.


"They've lost everything, they've lost houses, some have lost
family members. People are still quite disorientated and haven't
really worked out what's happened yet."


The Red Cross estimated 2,000 people had been displaced in the
town and for now the main task is making sure everyone gets
water, food and tents.


Little in the way of aid had arrived by mid-afternoon Tuesday,
apart from some medical supplies dropped off by a police patrol
boat. Residents have been relying on supplies from local Chinese-
owned shops but they are running low.


"I think we will reach crisis point tomorrow," Kennedy said.


"I think the food distribution has gone quite well but basically
the few store that have been able to open their doors are running
very, very short."


The good news is the local airstrip was cleared of debris from
the tsunami, which will allow relief flights to land.


Around 35 injured people were brought in by canoe Tuesday from
outlying islands and carried up to a temporary hospital on the
hill.


Seven badly injured people were flown to Honiara during Monday
and another five Tuesday, Kennedy said.


"I know for fact in Gizo there are about 20 to 25 people who are
completely unnaccounted for, presumed missing and drowned," he
added. "That would bring the death toll up quite a lot."


Although the 20,000 people of the town and surrounding villages
are clearly traumatised, they will bounce back quickly, Kennedy
said.


"I'm sure they are distraught about the whole situation but the
people here are quite resilient and will get on with their lives
quite shortly," he said.


"People are looking for a bit of direction on how the clean-up is
going to go so they can start to rebuild their lives."


The lower part of Gizo is devastated. Debris lies everywhere. The
Roman Catholic cathedral caved in and collapsed during the
initial quake, witnesses said.


A car was flung onto a hibiscus hedge by the tsunami and 200
litre drums of fuel lie strewn in a swamp 40 metres (yards) away
from the edge of the local Mobil depot.


Western Province premier Alex Lokopio said Gizo would need to be
virtually reconstructed from scratch.


"Gizo has to be rebuilt," he told Radio New Zealand. "The Chinese
and other people who set up their businesses here in Gizo, most
of their businesses have been destroyed."

