

House speaker Nancy Pelosi is due in Syria on Tuesday, the most
senior US official to visit in years, in defiance of the White
House which accuses her of undermining US policy.


With Damascus seeking a new balance in Washington's Middle East
policies, the leading Democrat said her planned talks with Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad were key to renewing dialogue on the
troubled Iraq and Lebanon files.


Pelosi, an ardent opponent of US President George W. Bush, is
expected to meet Assad and other officials on Wednesday before
heading to Saudi Arabia on the last leg of her regional fact-
finding tour.


The state media in Damascus hailed her visit as as a possible
breakthrough, with the Syria Times describing Pelosi as a "brave
lady" on an "invaluable" mission.


"American legislators, Democrats as well as Republicans, are
aware that US policy in the region, especially the war in Iraq
and its ties with Syria, is a fiasco that must be repaired," said
the government daily Tishrin.


"(Syria) is ready for serious and sincere dialogue with the US
officials," said Tishrin, which said it saw "great hopes of a
rebalancing of US policy in the region."


Bush's administration has boycotted Damascus since the February
2005 assassination of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri
for which a UN investigation has implicated Syrian intelligence
despite Syria's denials.


In a showdown over regional policies, Washington imposed economic
sanctions on Damascus in 2004, accusing Syria of harbouring
terror groups, backing insurgents in Iraq and meddling in
Lebanon.


Syria's ambassador to Washington, Imad Mustafa, told Tishrin that
the Pelosi visit was "a positive step... in the framework of a
calm dialogue" between the two countries.


"We may differ politically but we must remain involved on the
diplomatic front in a dialogue in order to reach some
understanding," Mustafa said.


An angry White House has accused Pelosi of undermining US-led
efforts to isolate Assad.


"It sends the wrong message to have high-level US officials going
there to have photo opportunities that Assad then exploits," said
spokeswoman Dana Perino. "We discourage such trips by high-
ranking US officials."


But Pelosi insists her mission falls in line with the bipartisan
Iraq Study Group "which encourages such diplomacy and engagement"
with Washington's foes Damascus and Tehran, to help resolve
crises in Lebanon and Iraq.


"Our trip to Syria is one that is important to us ... (and) is
part of our responsibility for the national security of the
United States," Pelosi said.


During her visit, "we will be talking about the overarching
issue, the fight against terrorism and the role that Syria can
play to help or to hinder that role."


She noted that three Republican politicians from the president's
party visited Damascus on Sunday.


Pelosi, who has already held talks in Israel on her Middle East
tour, was expected to transmit the Jewish state's views on the
long-stalled peace process with Syria, which demands the return
of the Golan Heights seized in 1967.


Before heading to Damascus, she held talks in the occupied West
Bank on Tuesday with Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


"It was a very good meeting, it was an in-depth discussion,"
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat told AFP.


Abbas told the top Democrat that it was "essential for the
Israelis to accept the Arab peace initiative," he said.


Arab heads of state last month renewed a five-year-old offer of
full normalisation of relations in return for a complete
withdrawal from all Arab lands seized in the 1967 Middle East
war.


Pelosi's delegation includes Democrat Keith Ellison, the first
Muslim elected to the US Congress.

