

A powerful earthquake hit northeast Afghanistan Tuesday, rocking
neighbouring Pakistan and India and sending people running into
the open in panic across the mountainous, quake-prone area.


First reports said there had been no severe damage or casualties
from the 6.2-magnitude quake, which hit near the Afghan town of
Faizabad near the towering Hindu Kush mountain range after 8:00
am (0300 GMT).


"We have not got any information about casualties or damage but
we're working on it," said Ahmad Shkeb from the government's
department of disaster preparedness in the Afghan capital.


Residents of Faizabad, capital of the mountainous and largely
inaccessible province of Badakshan, said they had rushed out of
buildings in panic during the tremor but saw no damage
afterwards.


"Around my house there are many houses made of mud but they are
not destroyed," Badakshan governor Abdul Majid told AFP.


He had no reports of casualties but said it would take several
hours for news to filter in from the outlying areas of the large
province.


The area has already suffered deadly flash floods and avalanches
in the past weeks because of melting winter snows and heavy
spring downpours.


In Kabul, some 260 kilometres (160 miles) southwest, hundreds of
people ran from their homes in fear of collapsing buildings.
"Everyone in my neighbourhood rushed out," a resident said.


There appeared to be no damage to the city, where hundreds of
mudbrick homes have been destroyed or damaged after days of heavy
rain caused the Kabul River to overflow its banks for the first
time in about a decade.


The quake also shook Pakistan, causing panic in areas flattened
by a 7.6-magnitude earthquake in October 2005 which killed more
than 73,000 people. There were no reports of casualties.


In Muzaffarabad, capital of Pakistani Kashmir which suffered the
most destruction in the quake two years ago, people ran into open
areas and a man jumped from his office building, suffering minor
injuries, witnesses said.


"The earthquake in Kashmir was not strong. It was very brief, it
was just one shock," a government official said.


In the northwestern city of Peshawar, near the Afghan border,
screaming students rushed out of classrooms in one school.


Indian-administered Kashmir was also jolted, sending residents
dashing outdoors amid fears of a repeat of the October 2005 quake
that killed 1,000 people in the area.


"There was just a moderate jolt, but the entire neighbourhood
rushed out of their homes," said Hajra Begum, a visibly shaken 63
-year-old housewife in Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian
Kashmir.


Officials said there were no immediate reports of casualties or
damage.


Afghanistan is often hit by earthquakes, especially around the
Hindu Kush mountain range that is near the collision of the
Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates, where seismic activity is
high.


In 2002 an 7.6-magnitude quake in the Hindu Kush destroyed
several villages and left more than 1,000 people dead.


The country, which has suffered drought for years, has been
battered for days by rain and avalanches, with some reports
saying 80 people were killed over the past weeks in floods,
mudslides, avalanches and other incidents.


Up to 25,000 people have been affected and hundreds airlifted to
safety, according to the United Nations.


More flooding was anticipated as the snow continues to melt, the
UN has said.


On Monday an 8.0-magnitude quake off the Solomon Islands in the
Pacific Ocean unleashed a tsunami that flattened 13 villages and
killed at least 24 people, leaving scores missing.

