

South Africa's Springbok rugby squad faces the threat of having
their passports confiscated unless more black players are picked
for this year's World Cup, media reported Tuesday.


The influential chairman of the country's parliamentary sports
committee Butana Komphela warned that this "worst case scenario"
would be necessary if there were not at least six black players
in the World Cup squad.


"In principle, we can't allow a team that does not reflect the
South African picture, to represent our country," Komphela was
quoted as telling the Beeld newspaper.


"My fear is that rugby won't see the World Cup. We will try to
convince the minister of home affairs to confiscate their
passports if the team is not representative."


Komphela was speaking during a discussion about an amendment to
the National Sport and Recreation Amendment Bill that would give
the sports minister the power to set racial targets.


The relationship between the sport and the South African
government has been strained for years due to the lack of black
players in the national teams.


More than a dozen years after the end of apartheid, and South
Africa's victory in the 1995 World Cup, the proportion of black
players to white has been slow to transform.


Komphela said a good start would be to have six black or coloured
players in the 30-man squad.


"We won't be happy with six players, but will view it as a good
start. We would like to see that SA Rugby takes into account all
the talent at its disposal when teams are chosen.


"Six out of thirty is not representative but it's a good start.
If good reasons are given, we will take it into consideration and
change our position. Injuries, for example are outside of
anyone's control," said Komphela.


Komphela's comments come before a World Cup squad has been
finalised. The 28-man squad which travelled overseas at the end
of 2006 contained eight black players.


The president of the South African Rugby Union Oregan Hoskins
said Komphela's comments should not be seen as idle threats.


"We must take what he says seriously. We have not nearly
finalised the group of players. We want to co-operate with the
government and will talk to them often."


Komphela has previously criticised Hoskins running of the union,
telling him to quit over the lack of transformation in the sport.

