

British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday the next two days
would be "critical" in efforts to resolve the stand-off with Iran
amid signs of progress towards freeing the 15 British captives.


But he warned that Britain would not shirk from taking
"increasingly tougher decisions" if its sailors were not released
as soon as possible.


Britain had seemed to be taking a softer approach towards Tehran
12 days into the crisis after a week of pushing for Iran's
international isolation, expressing outrage and disgust at videos
of the 15 navy personnel and cranking up the pressure.


However, Blair insisted the ball was back in the Iranians' court
and reiterated that Britain was ready to turn up the heat again
if a new wave of diplomacy failed.


"The next 48 hours will be fairly critical," he told Glasgow-
based Real Radio, while cautiously welcoming comments Monday by
top Iranian official Ali Larijani, who envisaged a diplomatic
solution.


Blair maintained that there are two possible outcomes: one of
"peaceful, calm negotiation... the other is to make it clear that
if that's not possible, then we have to take increasingly tougher
decisions.


"I'm not going to say any more at the moment -- it's for the
Iranian government now to come back with their response."


Larijani's comments seem to offer "some prospect," Blair said.
"We very much hope the Iranian government realises that the best
way to deal with this is in a diplomatic way.


His comments came after Iran and Britain started talks Tuesday
described as a first step towards resolving the row that has
further strained relations between Tehran and the West.


Larijani said Tuesday the new contacts could create the
conditions for ending the stand-off.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue."


The eight sailors and seven marines, on a routine anti-smuggling
job under a United Nations mandate, were seized at gunpoint in
the northern Gulf on March 23 by Revolutionary Guards. Britain
insists they were in Iraqi waters, not Iranian waters.


Britain initially relied on quiet diplomacy to get the captives
released, but its patience snapped five days into the crisis.


After a week of Britain expressing its outrage and disgust at
videos of the captives and efforts to isolate Iran
internationally, both sides seem ready for talks.


The Foreign Office said negotiations now have a "more positive
feel."


Though "there do remain some differences," London shares Tehran's
"preference for an early bilateral discussion to find out a
diplomatic solution to the problem," a spokesman told AFP.


Richard Dalton, a former British ambassador to Tehran, said it
seemed both sides were now looking for a way to solve the crisis
soon.


"The negotiation will have to concentrate on how to avoid such
incidents in the future... that could create a kind of better
understanding that would oblige Iranians to conclude that they
can't keep going any longer," he told the BBC.

