

A call for a two-day general strike by Zimbabwe's main union
organisation appeared to have received a cool response on Tuesday
as most shops and services were running as on a normal working
day.


Bus companies were running full services while post offices,
banks, government offices, supermarkets and high street shops
were all open in the centre of Harare, according to AFP
correspondents in the capital.


Some workers said they could simply not afford to lose some of
their salary as they are already struggling to make ends meet.


"Our boss warned that if we did not show up he would simply
deduct two days wages for each day," said Alice Ushe, a cashier
at a supermarket in Harare which opened as usual at 8:00am.


"I cannot afford to make society happy by staying at home. I have
a family to feed I need the money because as it is, my salary is
not nearly enough."


There were signs that the strike call had been received more
sympathetically in the industrial areas of Willowvale and
Southerton in Harare, where some factories were shut and the
streets had the feel of a Sunday morning.


A low-level police presence was seen in the streets throughout
the capital and several roadblocks had been mounted on roads
leading into the city.


Police spokesman, Wayne Bvudzijena, warned Monday that the elite
security force would be deployed across the country to ensure
peace.


The Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU) launched the general
shutdown  as opponents of veteran President Robert Mugabe turn up
the heat on his beleaguered government.


The ZCTU, formerly headed by Zimbabwe's main opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai, called the strike, accusing the government of
failing to respond to concerns about the worsening economic
crisis.


Eighty percent of Zimbabweans are jobless and inflation stands at
1,730 percent, the highest in the world.


Mugabe, 83, who has been in power for 27 years, is widely blamed
for the country's political and economic woes.


But recent union demonstrations have been stopped in their tracks
by Mugabe's security forces, with several union chiefs arrested
in September as major nationwide protests were crushed at the
outset.

