

Afghan and foreign troops killed at least 10 militants in
southern Afghanistan early Tuesday as two more rebels, a
policeman and three nomads were reported killed in other attacks.


Troops with the Afghan army and the US-led coalition clashed with
militants in the southern province of Helmand in an operation
aimed at a "regional sub- commander" linked to notorious Taliban
commander Mullah Dadullah.


The force also captured two militants and destroyed a small-arms
cache, the coalition said in a statement.


They had gone to a compound in the Sangin district, which has
seen several clashes and is not in full government control, in
search of the sub-commander "with direct ties to Taliban military
commander Mullah Dadullah Lang."


Militants hiding in nearby buildings attacked the troops with
gunfire and rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs) as they arrived.


On their way out, they killed several people armed with mortars
and RPGs attempting to fire from a series of trenches, the
statement said.


It did not make clear if the targeted man was among the dead.


Dadullah, said to be head of Taliban military operations in the
south, has boasted of having hundreds of men ready to carry out
suicide attacks and thousands more to fight the military forces.


He was involved in the beheading of an Afghan man kidnapped with
an Italian journalist last month. The Italian was freed after two
weeks in captivity after the government freed five Taliban
prisoners.


In a separate incident, dozens of Taliban militants armed with
machineguns and rockets attacked a police checkpost in the
neighbouring province of Kandahar late Monday, the provincial
police chief said.


Two Taliban bodies were found early Tuesday at the scene of the
hour-long battle in restive Shahwali Kot district, police chief
Ismatullah Alizai said. "One policeman was also martyred," he
told AFP.


The ministry of defence said meanwhile that three Afghan nomads
were killed on Monday when a bomb struck a tractor they were
travelling on in the eastern province of Paktika.


And the interior ministry said it had arrested a man in western
Farah province whom they believed had been "informing the enemies
of Afghanistan about the movements of the security forces."


The Taliban insurgency, launched months after their 2001 toppling
in a US-led invasion, has intensified since early last year when
more than 4,000 people -- mostly rebels -- were estimated to have
been killed.


More than 900 people, about two-thirds of them attackers, have
already died this year, according to an AFP tally based on
reports.

