

Overlooking the rubble of a demolished house that had stood as a
symbol of defiance against China's elite, locals marvelled
Tuesday at the charismatic woman dubbed the "Stubborn Nail."


Dozens of people crowded a walkway overlooking the construction
site where the two-storey home had sat like a sore thumb for
months as developers tried to get rid of the owners in an affair
that made national headlines.


"She stood up to the government, she stood up to the developers,"
a man surnamed Chen said of the charismatic Wu Ping, who refused
to give up her home even when it stood alone like an island in a
massive excavation pit.


"Wu Ping demanded a house that was the same size, that was on the
ground floor, that faced the same direction and that was in the
same area.


"These four demands were not extravagant and she persisted until
she got what she wanted."


Others at the site on Tuesday expressed admiration for her
tenacity. "She really fought hard," another man said, as the
crowd chatted excitedly about the "Stubborn Nail's" apparent win.


Although her house was demolished late on Monday night, court
officials announced on Tuesday morning that Wu and her husband,
Yang Wu, would be given a home nearby valued at about three
million yuan (390,000 dollars).


They were also awarded 900,000 yuan in compensation for business
losses incurred during the three-year stand-off, as they had once
run a successful restaurant from their home.


Land grabs from powerful business interests in collusion with
local government officials are a huge problem in China, and
appeals for justice from those who lose their properties often
come to nothing.


But Wu managed to stand up to the powerful interests like no
other, winning over locals and many in the government-controlled
press as she met journalists daily dressed in a fashionable
Chinese tunic.


This week the 49-year-old was featured on the cover of two
nationally distributed weekly news magazines while state
television also gave her wide coverage.


Zhou Shuguang, who ran an Internet blog on the issue, told AFP
that Wu's campaign offered hope to the countless other victims of
land grabs in China.


"Forced demolition is a very common occurrence, especially in
impoverished rural areas where the people have no way to protect
their rights. So this will have a positive influence on ending
the violent destruction of homes," Zhou said.


However other onlookers expressed support for the developer in
the dispute, the Zhengsheng Property Development Co., which
earlier said that it had lost up to 300,000 yuan due to
construction delays.


"Both the developer and the owner are at fault on this issue,"
Wang Qi, another onlooker told AFP.


"People in Chongqing have been happy to see the city develop and
modernise."

