

Iran and Britain on Tuesday started talks described as a first
step towards resolving the row over the capture of British
sailors that has further strained relations between Tehran and
the West.


Iran's top security official Ali Larijani said the new contacts
could create the conditions for ending the standoff as both sides
toned down rhetoric previously marked by anger and mutual
accusations.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue," he added.


"From the start it was intended to resolve this affair through
bilateral contacts and that the other side would recognise its
error but they behaved as if their violation of Iranian waters
was something normal."


Larijani on Monday also gave a rare interview to British
television in an apparent attempt to cool the boiling controversy
created by the capture of the 15 marines and sailors accused of
entering Iranian waters on March 23.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing sanctions against Tehran.


Larijani told Britain's Channel Four television there was "no
need" to put the group on trial, describing the stand-off as
"quite resolvable."


"Definitely our priority is to solve the problem through proper
diplomatic channels. We are not interested in having this issue
get further complicated," he said.


A British foreign ministry spokeswoman said on Monday that London
shared Larijani's preference for "early bilateral discussions."


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon also sought to ease tensions,
saying the "rhetoric should be toned down."


Alaeddin Boroujerdi, head of the Iranian parliament's foreign
affairs commission, said that "to resolve these problems, London
needs to send an official mission to give explanations."


Britain maintains that the group were carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters but Iran says that their
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices show they intruded on
Iranian waters.


Iran's ISNA news agency, without citing its sources, spoke Monday
of a "change" in the British attitude towards resolving the
stand-off, but did not give any details.


The atmosphere has also been soured by Iran's broadcast of
televised "confessions" of the sailors admitting that they
crossed into Iranian waters which have infuriated London.


However, in a possible sign of rapprochement, Iran refrained from
broadcasting the sound on more images of the sailors that were
shown on state television on Tuesday.


State television said all 15 sailors had given "frank
confessions," and admitted to illegally entering its waters.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had been scheduled to give a keenly
anticipated news conference on Tuesday but this has been
postponed until Wednesday "at the request of journalists," an
official said.


Even before the standoff over the sailors, Iran had already been
the target of increasing Western impatience over its refusal to
suspend sensitive nuclear work despite two sets of UN sanctions.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice repeated her offer that
she was open to direct talks with Iran but only on the condition
that it froze its sensitive uranium enrichment work.


"But what you don't want to do, I think, is make this US-Iranian
negotiations over the Iranian nuclear weapon," she said.


The United States, with whom Iran has no diplomatic relations,
accuses Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon. Iran denies the charges
saying it only wants nuclear energy.

