

Zimbabwe's main union organisation launched a two-day general
strike on Tuesday as opponents of veteran President Robert Mugabe
attempted to turn up the heat on his beleaguered government.


Early indications were that the strike call by the Zimbabwe
Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU) had received a cool response but
organisers insisted a majority of workers had stayed away.


Meanwhile South African President Thabo Mbeki, recently appointed
by regional leaders to mediate between Mugabe and the Zimbabwe
opposition, said he expected his 83-year-old counterpart would
peacefully give up power.


The ZCTU, an organisation formerly led by Zimbabwe's main
opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, called the strike to protest
the government's failure to halt the slide of the economy in a
country where inflation now stands at 1,730 percent and four out
of five people are out of work.


Many of those who did turn up to work said they could not afford
to lose part of their salary.


"Our boss warned that if we did not show up he would simply
deduct two days wages for each day," said Alice Ushe, a cashier
at a supermarket in downtown Harare which opened as usual at
8:00am.


"I cannot afford to make society happy by staying at home. I have
a family to feed I need the money because as it is, my salary is
not nearly enough."


Bus companies were running full services while post offices,
banks, government offices and high street shops were all open in
the centre of Harare, according to AFP correspondents.


There were however signs the strike had been received more
sympathetically in the industrial areas of Willowvale and
Southerton in Harare, where some factories were shut and streets
had the feel of a Sunday morning.


ZCTU secretary general Wellington Chibebe said there were already
signs the government was listening to the union demands for major
pay hikes.


"In terms of response by the workers, we can put it at 55 percent
so far," he told AFP.


"But in terms of the effect on government and employers, we can
say it has been 70 percent successful because we hear they are
working on our issues (demands) and they would want to meet us as
soon as possible."


The government has criticised the strike as being politically-
motivated and warned it will only exacerbate the economic
situation.


"All workers are being urged to ignore the call and report for
work as usual," Labour Minister Nicholas Goche told the state-run
Herald daily.


"Government will ensure that transport is available during the
days in question and police will be there to ensure workers are
not intimidated when boarding buses on their way to their
workplaces," he added.


A low-level police presence was seen throughout the capital and
several roadblocks had been mounted on roads leading into the
city.


Recent union demonstrations have been stopped in their tracks by
Mugabe's forces, with several union chiefs arrested in September
as major nationwide protests were crushed at the outset.


The unrest in Zimbabwe has alarmed other countries in southern
Africa which are feeling the knock-on effects. More than three
million Zimbabweans have emigrated in the last few years, mainly
to South Africa.


In an interview with the Financial Times newspaper, Mbeki
rebuffed claims by Mugabe that regional leaders meeting at a
summit in Tanzania last week had all agreed with his handling of
the situation.


"The region believes there are political problems and in the
course of the meeting people said quite openly they are very
disturbed to see these pictures of people being beaten up," said
Mbeki.


Tsvangirai, currently in South Africa for checks after being
beaten by Mugabe's security forces last month, has welcomed
Mbeki's involvement.


Asked if he believed Mugabe, in power since independence in 1980,
would ever peacefully give up power, Mbeki said: "I think so.
Yes."


"President Mugabe and the leadership of Zanu-PF believe they are
running a democratic country."

