

The US state of California is eyeing France's high speed train
for a planned link between San Franciso and San Diego, the
speaker of its state assembly said on Tuesday during a visit to
France.


"We are contemplating in California the possibility of a high
speed train that would go from the San Francisco Bay area to Los
Angeles and San Diego, in South California. We're here to study
the rail system," the speaker Fabian Nunez said.


France's TGV was on Tuesday attempting to set a new world speed
record for a train on rails, with organisers aiming to hit at
least 560 kilometres (350 miles) per hour.


"You have been ahead of time (in producing a) very practical rail
system in France which can move people from one place to
another," Nunez, California's third most powerful politician
said.


"Today you'll be breaking a new speed record with your high speed
train, the timing of our venue couldn't have been better."


The record attempt was to be tried on a 73-kilometre (45.3 mile)
stretch of track between Paris and the eastern city of
Strasbourg.


Weather permitting, the experimental Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV)
will aim to break a 17-year-old speed record for a traditional
rail-based train of 515.3 kilometres (320.2 miles) per hour. That
was set by an earlier version of the TGV.


Nunez, who was holding talks with the Alstom company and French
railway officials, said California was also looking at other
trains, but had a particular interest in the French model.


"We've had several meetings with industrials. We are looking at
the other models, but we are particularly interested in the
French model,"  he said.


California is more adaptable to the French experience. The
example of the Paris- Lyon liaison is an experience that is very
similar to what we want to do in California between San Francisco
and LA."


The planned high speed train link would go from Sacramento in the
north to San Diego in the south via San Francisco and Los
Angeles, covering a distance of 1,100 kilometres (683 miles). The
time of the trip between San Francisco and Los Angeles would be
reduced to two and a half hours.


Nunez said the timeline for the plan was early 2009.

