

Eritrea's president urged his Ugandan counterpart to pull out his
peacekeeping troops from Somalia, warning that the war-torn
country was a trap, a statement said Tuesday after talks between
the two in Eritrea.


An offensive by Eritrean arch foe Ethiopia in Mogadishu last week
sparked some of the worst fighting in Somalia's history, during
which a first Ugandan African Union peacekeeper was killed.


Some 1,500 Ugandan peacekeepers deployed in Mogadishu last month.


Eritrea on Tuesday repeated the country's objection to the
deployment of African Union peacekeepers in Somalia to help
bolster the Ethiopia-backed Somali interim government.


"The so-called deployment of a peacekeeping mission to Somalia is
essentially designed to mislead forces that are not very familiar
with the real situation there and make them fall into a trap,"
said a statement from the information ministry after a summit
Monday between Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki and his
Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni.


"Uganda needs to take corrective measures regarding the hasty
step it took in sending troops to Somalia," Issaias said,
according to the statement published on the ministry's website.


Eritrea said the situation in Somalia was "escalating from bad to
worse".


Ugandan officials were not immediately available for comment on
the meeting.


Eritrea has warned that the continued presence of Ethiopian
troops, who helped the Somali government oust an Islamist
movement three months ago, would worsen the situation in the
country.


Although Ethiopia says it is withdrawing from Somalia, extra
Ethiopian troops arrived in Mogadishu on Monday to help battle
Islamist insurgents and clan leaders.


Addis Ababa has justified its intervention, saying the Islamists,
some of whom are accused of Al-Qaeda links, posed a threat after
they declared a holy war against Ethiopia.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.

