

Siemens chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld said in a newspaper
interview published Tuesday that the lawsuit filed by the IG
Metall labour union against the German engineering giant was
unlikely to succeed.


"As far my knowledge of the current legal situation allows, I
can't see that paragraph 119 of the Betriebverfassungsgesetz
(Works Constitution Act) applies here," Kleinfeld told the daily
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.


According to that law, any attempt to influence elections to the
works council or the work of council members is punishable with
up to one year imprisonment or a fine.


IG Metall announced Monday that it had filed a lawsuit against
Siemens over allegations that it may have helped finance a rival
union in order to undermine IG Metall's power within the Siemens
workforce.


"We suspect -- and have circumstantial evidence that suggests --
that AUB (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Unabhaengiger Betriebsangehoeriger)
was financed by Siemens in order to build it up into a sort of
counter union to IG Metall," union chief Juergen Peters had said.


IG Metall may possibly have been disadvantaged in its work and in
works council elections, he alleged.


His deputy, Berthold Huber, said there may have been systematic
favouritism to the tiny AUB union.


In the interview Tuesday, Kleinfeld rejected any such
suggestions.


"IG Metall is always our wage partner everywhere," he said. AUB
was not allowed to hold wage negotiations.


"And I don't have the impression that AUB is particularly close
with employers," Kleinfeld said.


Last week, a member of Siemens' central management board,
Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested over his alleged involvement in
allegations that management tried to build up the tiny AUB into a
possible counterweight to the all-powerful IG Metall.


Siemens' former finance chief, Karl-Hermann Baumann, was also
being investigated in the matter.


Both he and Feldmayer are being involved in 15-20 million euros
(20-26 million dollars) in alleged bogus consultancy fees to AUB
chief Wilhelm Schelsky, who was arrested last month.


At the same time, Siemens is also engulfed in a massive slush-
fund scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers
siphoned off hundreds of millions of euros in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


Prosecutors this week said they had arrested two more current and
former managers in connection with the matter following a series
of high-profile arrests at the end of last year, including the
former head of Siemens' telecoms division, Thomas Ganswindt.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.

