

Shigeru "Shiggy" Konno, who helped Japan onto the world rugby
stage, has died just as the minnows seek to host the Rugby World
Cup for the first time in Asia. He was 84.


Konno, a former head of the Japan Rugby Football Union and one-
time executive member of the International Rugby Board, succumbed
to a cerebral thrombosis at a Tokyo hospital late Sunday, the
union said on its website.


Fluent in English and with British manners acquired mostly from a
childhood spent in London, Konno played a central role in the
establishment of the Asian Rugby Football Union in 1968.


Konno, known as an "ambassador" or "wise man" of Japanese rugby,
headed the national team on their expeditions abroad over four
decades, including Japan's inaugural World Cup in 1988 and again
in 1992.


"He was not only fluent in English but also equipped with a
diplomatic and political sense," said Hitoshi Oka, 77, a former
coach of the national team.


"It was thanks to Mr Konno's clout that we managed to arrange
matches with England and other powerhouses of the world, although
Japan's level of play was too low to invite them," Oka told the
Mainichi Shimbun newspaper.


Born in 1922 to a banker father in Nishinomiya, western Japan,
Konno lived in London with his family until he was 10, attending
school there.


He played as a lock at Doshisha University in Kyoto and helped
link Japan with the rest of the rugby world, serving as a liaison
officer when Oxford University made their first tour of the Far
East nation in 1952.


At the national union, Konno was appointed a member of the board
in 1969 and served as its president from 1995 - 2001. He was an
honorary adviser to the union at the time of his death.


In 1985, Queen Elizabeth II decorated him as an Officer of the
British Empire for his help in developing rugby in Asia, making
him the first Japanese in sports to receive the honour.


He was an executive member of the International Rugby Board from
1991-2000.


Konno was, at one time, criticised for zealously guarding
amateurism for fear that a rapid shift to professionalism would
harm Japanese rugby, although in 1996 he finally dropped the
amateur code from the domestic game.


His death comes as Japan set their sights on a daunting two wins
at the upcoming World Cup in France in September, having scored
just one victory in 16 matches over the past five World Cups.


Japan are also bidding to host the World Cup in 2015 after
narrowly losing out to New Zealand for the 2011 tournament.


Japan made rugby history in 1995 when they were thrashed by New
Zealand 145-17 -- the largest-ever losing margin in a World Cup,
although they were overtaken in 2003 when Australia demolished
Namibia 142-0.

