

Thousands of protesters massed in the Ukrainian capital Kiev on
Tuesday chanting, singing and waving flags in defiance of
President Viktor Yushchenko's order to dissolve parliament.


Some 3,500 spent the night outside the parliament building in an
effort to prevent any forced dissolution, organisers said, as
parliamentarians vowed to resist the move announced by the
president in a speech late Monday.


"We must stop the radicals from getting into power," said Sergei
Vasilenko, a supporter of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych, who is leading opposition to the president's move.


Rallies to protest the president's order were planned across the
country for Tuesday in a stand-off that reflects deep national
divisions between the predominantly Russian-speaking east and the
Ukrainian-speaking west.


Inside the parliament building, pro-Yanukovych legislators met
for an emergency session at which Yanukovych vowed to resist what
he described as Yuschenko's "fatal mistake."


Outside, Yanukovych allies addressed the crowd to a rapturous
reception by the mostly young protesters, many of whom waved the
light-blue flags of Yanukovych's Regions party.


"How many times must we address the president? Why must we
justify the fact that country needs stability and peace?",
Tatyana Moroz, a pro-Yanukovych politician, told the crowd.


"Those who come at us with the fist will die by the fist."


Placards held up by protesters called on Yushchenko to respect
the constitution and signalled opposition to his pro-West foreign
policy, particularly membership of NATO.


Dozens of tents have been set up near the building in protests
reminiscent of the "orange revolution" of December 2004 when
Yushchenko seized the presidency after weeks of street protests
against controversial elections.


Those protests involved tens of thousands of Ukrainians. But on
Tuesday only around 50 Yushchenko supporters came out to rally
for the president outside his offices in Kiev.


As in the "orange revolution," demonstrations by Yushchenko
opponents appeared to be highly organized. A rotation system is
in place meaning no-one spends more than two to three days out,
activists said.


After months of political instability following March 2006
parliamentary elections, however, some protesters expressed
weariness at the prolonged crisis.


"People have started to calm down here and then here we go again.
Honestly, it's like betrayal," said Vera, 40, who declined to
give her last name.

