

Iran and Britain appear headed for a diplomatic solution over
captive British sailors but it could take days to solve, a former
British ambassador to Tehran said Tuesday.


Sir Richard Dalton welcomed remarks by Iran's top security
official Ali Larijani who told British television Monday that
there appeared to be "no need" to try the sailors and marines for
allegedly trespassing into Iranian waters.


"It looks as though both sides are looking for a way to solve the
crisis and to do so in the not-too-distant future," Dalton told
the BBC.


"They seem to have not had a plan for what to do once the capture
had taken place and are making decisions one step at a time," he
added.


"If indeed they have a preference for diplomacy, and they are
signalling no trial, that is a very positive step that is going
to take a weight off the shoulders of people," Dalton said.


But he underlined that Larijaji's comments in an interview with
Channel Four News had included "a little bit of conditionality".


"He is still leaving open the faint possibility of a trial if
Britain doesn't come up to the mark in his eyes and that's the
problem: we don't quite know what it is that Iran is going to
insist on at this stage," he said.


"I caution against too high an expectation too soon, there is a
lot to discuss," he said.


"We don't know what the Iranian position will be," he said.


Larijani and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad "will have to
coordinate and it may take a little time. I don't think we should
expect a very early solution, it's going to take a matter of days
it could be longer."


He added it was difficult for Britain to accept Tehran's demand
for an apology for "trespassing" into Iranian waters when London
insists that the British marines and sailors were "ambushed" in
Iraqi waters.


"The negotiation will have to concentrate on how to avoid such
incidents in the future...that could create a kind of better
understanding that would oblige Iranians to conclude that they
can't keep going any longer," he said.


"It may well be a good sign that Mr. Larijani who is an expert
international negotiator is now trying to find a way through," he
said.

