

Pakistan's Prime Minister called Tuesday for more talks with
Afghanistan to settle differences between the two neighbours
after Kabul accused Islamabad of harbouring the Taliban leader.


"This merely says that we need to engage more and communicate
more," Shaukat Aziz told a press conference.


He said he expected to meet President Hamid Karzai on Wednesday
during the summit of the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation (SAARC) which opened in the Indian capital on
Tuesday.


"On the sidelines, we will be talking to each other. We believe
that dialogue, discussion interaction... when you are neighbours
you have to learn to live together."


Karzai accused Pakistan's intelligence agencies of sheltering the
fugitive Mullah Mohammad Omar.


In an interview published Sunday, he said Omar, who has been on
the run since being toppled by a US-led coalition five years ago,
was hiding in the Pakistani city of Quetta.


"We have solid, clear information indicating that," he told the
New York Times. "And I'm sorry I cannot be silent about this, as
much as our friends in Pakistan may not like my saying that."


Aziz did not seek to refute each allegation but insisted on
Pakistan's positive role.


"If there is one country which wants a strong, stable, peaceful
Afghanistan, it is Pakistan," he said. "Whenever Afghanistan is
in turmoil, the country which pays the biggest price is Pakistan.


"We have done a lot to help Afghanistan. We will continue to do
so because it is in Afghanistan's interest and our national
interest that we have a peaceful Afghanistan," he said.


"We have supported the government of President Karzai. We think
he's doing his best under challenging circumstances."


Omar led the 1996-2001 Taliban regime that sheltered Al-Qaeda and
was overthrown after the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United
States.


Pakistan was a key backer of the fundamentalist militia.


Karzai also blamed Islamabad for a resurgence of border violence
and called for better cooperation to halt cross border suicide
bombing.


Aziz urged Afghanistan to step up its own border security.


"We want the Afghan Army and other forces there to man their
border more effectively, put more troops there. We have put
several thousand troops on our border and we would like them to
do the same.


The border issue was part of what the prime minister called "a
synopsis of our whole position on Afghanistan" and "what
initiatives may be necessary."


These included the return home of three million Afghan refugees
living in Pakistan.


"It will take time but this has to happen," he said.


He also called for the tackling of drug production in
Afghanistan, saying the "nexus between drug money and terrorism
is clearly the single most serious threat and cause for gobal
terrorism."


Aziz also said "a Marshall-plan type approach is needed" for the
country.

