

A plane carrying Japan's finance minister made a safe emergency
landing Tuesday in the southern city of Fukuoka after an engine
overheated, officials said.


The Japan Airlines jet was carrying 259 passengers including
Finance Minister Koji Omi from Tokyo when the engine stopped
working, an official of the transport ministry office in Fukuoka
said.


Television footage showed the Boeing 777 slowly approaching and
making a careful landing without incident.


"It wasn't particularly pleasant but there was nothing I could
do. I just stayed calm during the flight," Omi told Fuji
Television after landing.


"It was explained on board that there was engine trouble. But the
plane was flying normally despite a little delay," said Omi, who
was on a brief trip to stump for a candidate in next week's local
elections.


Not all passengers were so calm.


"My heart was thumping inside but there was nothing unusual on
board," a middle- aged woman, whose name was not given, told TV
Asahi.


None of the passengers were injured, said Masaaki Tsuda, a
spokesman of the Fukuoka office of Japan Airlines.


"During the flight, a sign flashed that showed possible trouble
with an engine so the crew decided to cut off the engine," he
told AFP.


Officials later said the problem was caused by overheating in the
plane's right engine.


The problem emerged about halfway through the hour-and-a-half
flight, which landed in Fukuoka 12 minutes behind schedule, said
Yoshinori Yana, an official at the transport ministry's office at
Fukuoka airport.


It was the latest aviation scare in Japan.


Last month, an All Nippon Airways Bombardier DHC-8 made an
emergency landing on its belly at a regional airport after its
front wheels failed to open.


The incident led the transport ministry to order checks on the
landing gear of all 36 Bombardier DHC-8 planes in operation in
Japan.


Japan Airlines has been hit hard by a series of safety incidents
that have scared away passengers.


In an incident in 2005, three passengers were injured when the
front tyres of a JAL plane came off on landing in Tokyo.

