

Thousands of French Airbus workers launched a strike in this
southern city Tuesday to protest a restructuring plan dubbed
Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs across Europe in the next
four years.


Chanting, "No to Power8," and "Power8 into the closet," around
2,500 workers gathered in front of an assembly hangar at the
European aircraft makers French headquarters.


Trade unions said 3,500 people had turned out for the protest.


They were to march to the nearby Toulouse-Blagnac airport along
the city's ring road, behind a banner that demanded the best-
selling A320 plane continue to be built in Toulouse.


One of the plan's measures calls for the plane to be built
exclusively in Hamburg, Germany instead of at two sites
presently.


Unions at the French plants called a half-day strike mainly to
voice opposition to Airbus' controversial restructuring plan.


The CGT, Force Ouvriere (FO) and CFDT unions said they had called
on workers to down tools from 09:00 am to 1:00 pm (0700 GMT to
1100 GMT) on the eve of a meeting of the company's European works
council.


Under the Power8 restructuring plan announced by Airbus at the
end of February, the group plans to shed 10,000 jobs across
Europe to save five billion euros (6.6 billion dollars) by 2010.


"Nothing has moved since Power8, we have to keep the pressure
on," Jean-Francois Knepper of FO said Tuesday. "We are not being
heard."


But two minority unions, the CFE-CGC and the CFTC, decided not to
join the action, warning that taking a hardline now could hurt
the company.


"It is too early to launch a tough movement. We do not yet know
the details of Power8. We prefer to discuss each point first,"
said Denis Bertrand of the CFE- CGC.


At the CFTC, Gilbert Plo added: "Airbus cannot allow itself a
tough movement now that would block production. We do not want to
slam the door shut on talks."


On March 6, some 15,000 Airbus workers protested in Toulouse,
where Airbus is headquartered, along with 2,000 at each of the
plants at Nantes, Saint Nazaire and Meaulte.


Ten days later, mass demonstrations took place in northern
Germany, southern Spain and in France in a rare show of cross-
border union activism against the restructuring plan which
management says is vital to rescuing Airbus.


Union voices have warned of much tougher action to come, down to
the halting of production lines, if Airbus and parent company
EADS did not back down on their plan.

