

China and Sudan will lift ties to a "new height", Chinese state
media said, despite international pressure on Beijing to shun
Sudan's government over charges it is aiding genocide in Darfur.


Visiting Sudanese military chief Haj Ahmed El Gaili and Chinese
Defence Minister Cao Gangchuan agreed the two sides should seek
closer ties in military and other spheres, Xinhua news agency
reported.


"Military relations between China and Sudan have developed
smoothly," Xinhua quoted Cao as telling his Sudanese guest, who
is in China for an eight-day visit that began Sunday.


Gao praised the "profound friendship" of the two nations and said
China wanted to "further promote bilateral cooperation in various
fields."


The Sudanese military chief replied that his country wanted to
maintain and strengthen cooperation with China "to lift bilateral
ties to a new height."


Fighting between rebels and armed pro-government groups in
Sudan's Darfur region has killed 200,000 people and displaced
more than two million over the past four years, according to the
United Nations.


The Khartoum regime stands accused by Washington and others of
being involved in genocide for its repression of a rebellion in
Darfur, and has rejected the deployment of a UN peacekeeping
force to stem the bloodshed.


China is one of Sudan's most important international allies,
buying around 60 percent of the African nation's oil exports, and
has used its UN Security Council veto to block moves condemning
Khartoum.


China has defended its approach to Sudan by saying it does not
want to interfere in another nation's internal affairs,
sentiments echoed by Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang
on Tuesday.


"When we are dealing with this issue, we have to respect the
territorial integrity and sovereignty of Sudan and have an equal
dialogue so as to promote the solution of the Darfur issue by
diplomatic means," Qin told a regular press briefing.


French centrist presidential candidate Francois Bayrou last week
called for a boycott of the 2008 Beijing Olympics due to China's
support of Sudan's government.


The United States has pushed China to use its leverage to obtain
better cooperation from Sudan's government.


Chinese President Hu Jintao visited Sudan in February, but
critics said he applied only mild pressure on Khartoum to reform.

