

Sri Lankan security forces have killed at least 23 Tamil Tiger
rebels in fresh fighting in the island's east following a deadly
bus bombing, the defence ministry said Tuesday.


"In the limited humanitarian operation on the west and south of
Batticaloa, we have found 10 bodies of the LTTE cadres,"
spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said. "Altogether, 23 Tigers have
been killed in the fighting yesterday."


He said one soldier was also killed in the confrontation.


Last week the government said its troops had moved into the
restive area without meeting any guerrilla resistance, and there
had been no indication on Monday from the military or local
residents that fighting was raging in the sparsely populated
areas of Batticaloa.


There was also no immediate response from the Tamil Tigers.


The incident came a day after 16 people were killed and 25
wounded when a bomb blast ripped through a bus in the island's
east.


The defence ministry immediately accused Tamil Tiger rebels of
setting off the bomb, which coincided with a key Buddhist
holiday, while the guerrillas denied they were responsible.


Police said an investigation was underway over the bus attack in
the district of Ampara, just south of Batticaloa.


Passengers were getting off the bus to be checked by troops
manning a road block when the blast occurred just outside the
town of Ampara, 350 kilometres (220 miles) east of Colombo.


The defence ministry also released new claims of rebel deaths
over the weekend, saying that 12 Tamil Tigers were killed in
clashes on Sunday in the northwestern district of Mannar.


"Intercepted LTTE communication confirmed their total losses as
12," the ministry said. "No harm was reported to the security
forces. A search operation is in progress in the area."


The Tamil rebels have waged a 35-year campaign for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005 despite a truce arranged in
2002.

