

South Korea and China agreed Tuesday to redouble efforts to solve
a dispute over frozen North Korean funds and make progress in
nuclear disarmament talks, the foreign ministry here said.


Foreign ministers Song Min-Soon and Li Zhaoxing met on the
sidelines of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
(SAARC) meeting in New Delhi, it said in a statement.


"Both sides agreed to increase diplomatic efforts for resolving
the technical problems regarding the BDA issue so that the
initial-stage measures should be implemeted without delay ... for
nuclear disarmament,"  it said.


The joint pledge came as top US Treasury official Daniel Glaser
was in Beijing for a second week of talks with Chinese officials
to help release some 25 million dollars frozen in Macau's Banco
Delta Asia (BDA).


North Korea insists the money, which was frozen in 2005 at US
instigation as the suspected proceeds of money-laundering and
counterfeiting, be returned before it implements a nuclear
disarmament accord signed on February 13.


The United States has agreed to free up the funds, which were to
be transferred to a North Korean account with the Bank of China.
But the Chinese state lender is reluctant to accept the money for
fear of affecting its credit rating, according to Seoul
officials.


South Korean deputy nuclear negotiator Lim Sung-Nam flew to the
Chinese capital Tuesday to check progress on the issue.


"I hope the BDA issue will be resolved by the weekend," a South
Korean foreign ministry official said.


Song said he was confident that international efforts to scrap
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme would move forward, South
Korea's Yonhap news agency said.


Six-party talks on the issue have been under way since 2003. They
group the United States, China, the two Koreas, Russia and Japan.


Under the initial stage of the February deal the North should
shut down and seal its plutonium-producing Yongbyon reactor and
other plants by April 14 in exchange for 50,000 tons of fuel oil.


The assistance would eventually total one million tons, or
equivalent aid, if North Korea dismantles all its nuclear
programmes.

