

A prosecutor Tuesday sought jail terms of up to 15 years for 53
Kurdish mayors on trial in southeast Turkey on charges of
supporting separatist Kurdish rebels.


The mayors have been on trial since September over a letter they
wrote to Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen in December
2005, asking him to ignore Ankara's calls to ban the Denmark-
based Kurdish television station Roj TV, which is allegedly
linked to the rebels.


The prosecutor argued Tuesday that the defendants had "knowingly
and willingly" supported the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK),
which has waged a bloody separatist campaign against Ankara in
the mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984.


The Turkish authorities say Roj TV is a mouthpiece of the PKK,
listed as a terrorist group by Ankara, the European Union and the
United States.


The prosecutor asked for jail terms of seven years and a half to
15 years for 53 mayors, all members of the Democratic Society
Party (DTP), the main legal Kurdish political movement in Turkey.


Among them is Osman Baydemir, one of Turkey's most popular
Kurdish politicians and mayor of Diyarbakir, the largest city in
southeast Turkey.


The prosecutor called for the acquittal of three mayors who said
their names were placed among signatories on the letter without
their knowledge.


The defendants, none of whom attended the hearing, have rejected
the charges, saying the letter meant to defend freedom of the
press and the interests of the Kurdish people in the southeast,
where Roj TV enjoys a wide audience.


The court adjourned the hearing to May 8 for a possible verdict.


Kurdish politicians are traditionally suspected of supporting the
PKK and are routinely prosecuted for alleged links to the group.


Roj TV has become a thorn in the side of Turkish-Danish
relations.


During a visit to Copenhagen in November 2005, Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan boycotted a joint news conference
with Rasmussen after the Dane rejected his request that a Roj TV
reporter be barred from entry.


Danish authorities said last year that Roj TV's programming
contains no incitement to hatred of Turkey and there is no proof
it is linked to the PKK.

