

South Africa's Rory Sabbatini seized the back-nine lead of the
Masters here Sunday in the final round of the Masters while Tiger
Woods struggled but still lurked only two strokes back at the
turn.


Sabbatini stood on two-under par through 13 holes after a birdie
at the par-5 13th, the final hole of the famed Amen Corner trio
at Augusta National Golf Club.


Stuart Appleby, trying to become the first Australian winner of
the Masters, opened with a double bogey but shared second on
three-over with South African Retief Goosen and American Zach
Johnson, one stroke ahead of top-ranked Woods.


Sabbatini curled in a spectacular horseshoe-esque eagle putt on
the par-5 eighth to briefly seize the lead, but took a bogey at
the ninth, missing a short par putt to hand Goosen the lead.


Two-time US Open champion Goosen, whose third-round 70 was
Saturday's only sub- par round, had back-to-back birdies at the
second and third and again at seven and eight but a bogey at the
par-3 12th dropped him from the lead.


Woods made the turn two strokes back in fifth but clearly was off
his game, slamming his club in frustration at the ninth when his
approach soared to the wrong area of the green.


Ten years after a Masters victory made him the first black golfer
to win a major, Woods was bidding for his 13th major title, fifth
green jacket and third major victory in a row.


A victory would leave Woods five shy of Jack Nicklaus' all-time
record of 18 major triumphs and one behind Nicklaus' record of
six career Masters titles.


But while Woods is 12-for-12 in majors when leading after 54
holes, he has never won a major when trailing after the third
round, as he did by a stroke to Appleby.


Gusty winds, lightning-fast greens and frigid conditions
escalated fears that contenders will be flirting with the all-
time record high score for a winner, one-over 289 by Sam Snead in
1954 and Jack Burke in 1956.


Augusta National was ready to surrender some trademark back-nine
dramatics, however, with watered greens and friendlier pin
placements allowing for choices that could bring glory or
disaster.


Goosen, the US Open winner in 2001 and 2004 and 2002 Masters
runner-up, made the cut on the number after a pair of 76s but
withstood the most difficult scoring conditions in Masters
history while rivals stumbled back.


Goosen was behind a tree on the seventh but found the green
through the limbs and sank a 10-foot birdie putt, then another at
eight and only a lip-out at nine kept him from moving further
ahead.


Appleby, who led by a stroke when the day began, answered his
double bogey with a short birdie at the par-3 sixth but missed a
five-foot birdie putt at the par-5 eighth that would have moved
him level with Goosen.


Woods also led briefly but was in trouble from the start. His
approach rolled off the front of the first green and he missed a
10-foot par putt, but answered with a birdie at the par-5 second
to move atop until Sabbatini's eagle.


Woods botched the par-3 sixth, missing a curvy 15-foot par putt,
to fall two back as the back nine loomed.


England's Justin Rose and American Jerry Kelly were on five-over
with England's Paul Casey, American David Toms and Irishman
Padraig Harrington on six-over.


Rose, one stroke off the lead when the day began, opened with a
double bogey, managed a birdie at the par-5 second but took
another double bogey at the third and a bogey at the fourth.


But after closing the front nine with a pair of birdies, Rose had
closed to within reach entering Amen Corner - the crucial 11th,
12th and 13th holes likely to tell much of the story once again
this year.


Rose was leading European hopes of ending a 29-major win drought
since Scotsman Paul Lawrie's 1999 British Open victory.


Harrington began the round two strokes off the pace but opened
with a bogey and surrendered another stroke at the fourth. The
only major triumph by an Irishman came when Fred Daly won the
1947 British Open.


Defending champion Phil Mickelson took a triple-bogey at the
first hole and never recovered while Welshman Bradley Dredge,
three off the lead when the day began, opened with five bogeys to
fade.

