

La Repubblica on Sunday voiced "dismay" over unconfirmed reports
of the execution of an Afghan reporter who worked as an
interpreter for a correspondent of the Italian daily freed by his
captors last month.


"We read with dismay the reports coming from the Taliban camp,"
the paper's editor Ezio Mauro said in a statement, adding: "We
still hope that they won't be confirmed."


Shohaabuddin Atal, spokesman for top Taliban military commander
Mullah Dadullah, claimed that Ajmal Naqshbandi was executed
Sunday afternoon because the Afghan authorities refused to
negotiate over their demands for the release of two Taliban
militants.


Naqshbandi was captured in the southern province of Helmand on
March 4 with La Repubblica correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo,
who was freed around two weeks later, and an Afghan driver who
was beheaded.


"We are in a time of anguish -- all of La Repubblica, together
with Daniele Mastrogiacomo -- at the news, not yet confirmed, of
the possible killing of Ajmal ... at the hands of Taliban
terrorists," Mauro said.


"This matter has already cost a life, that of Sayed (Agha), the
driver who accompanied Daniele and Ajmal on their reporting
mission to southern Afghanistan. For days we asked the Taliban
not to stain their hands with more blood ... to return Ajmal to
his family."


Mauro added: "The interpreter had no guilt, he is a man who like
Daniele and Sayed went to this area exclusively for work
reasons."


The Italian foreign ministry meanwhile was in constant contact
with Rome's ambassador to Kabul, Ettore Sequi, and checking on
the reports, the ANSA news agency said.


The Italian news outlet PeaceReporter said earlier Sunday that it
had no "confirmation" and cast doubt on the reports.


"We have no confirmation through our own channels," PeaceReporter
director Maso Notarianni told AFP. "I advise great prudence. The
announcement of the execution could be a way to exert pressure."


PeaceReporter is linked to the Italian humanitarian group
Emergency, which was the go-between in negotiations for
Mastrogiacomo's release.


Notarianni noted that the Taliban had set an ultimatum of Monday
for executing Naqshbandi, a freelance journalist.


Mastrogiacomo was freed in exchange for Taliban prisoners in a
deal that angered many Afghans and prompted the United States and
other countries to condemn negotiations with "terrorists."

