

Sebastien Grosjean handed France a Davis Cup lifeline by beating
Igor Andreev 7-5, 4-6, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 to level their World Group
quarter-final 2-2 with Russia here on Sunday.


It means Russian Marat Safin will battle Paul-Henri Mathieu of
France in Sunday's final rubber to decide who goes into the semi-
finals against Germany.


Grosjean, whose poor service game was a big factor in the doubles
defeat, alongside Michael Llodra, to Russia on Saturday, sealed
victory on a second match point after nearly four hours of
playing his first match against Andreev.


"I tried to play as aggressively as possible, and today I managed
it," said Grosjean.


"That was the only way to win as Andreev plays really powerful
tennis."


Grosjean, whose season has been relatively disastrous, could feel
relieved.


France captain Guy Forget had made a late switch, deciding to
field Grosjean instead of French number one Richard Gasquet, who
had lost to Mikhail Youzhny on Friday.


Forget's faith in the out of form Grosjean paid off as he
produced the best match of what has been a poor season so far to
pull the visitors right back in it.


With little to lose, Grosjean decided to go out and take all the
risks, especially on his returns of serve.


It seemed to give him the psychological advantage, and he surged
to win the first set inside the hour.


Andreev moved up a gear in the second, adding power and precision
to his game and he broke early for a 3-1 advantage which he kept
to win the set and pull level.


Grosjean was easily overcome in the third set, with Youzhny
breaking the 28 -year-old's serve twice to give Russia a sniff of
claiming a place in the last four.


However Grosjean dug deep. In the next two sets he rained down a
series of confidence-boosting winners which left Andreev
struggling to keep his nerve.


Grosjean went on to break the Russian's serve in the eighth game
of the fourth set to pull level at two sets all.


Andreev fought hard and the 23-year-old managed to survive one
match point before Grosjean's determination paid off.


On Friday Mathieu had given France the advantage after he battled
back from a set down to beat Nikolay Davydenko 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 7-5
in the opening rubber.


Youzhny than beat Gasquet in a marathon five-setter 6-2, 6-3, 6-7
(8/10), 5-7, 8-6 to level proceedings at 1-1.


On Saturday Davydenko and Andreev put Russia 2-1 up with a
doubles victory over Llodra and Grosjean 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.


France have been bundled out of the tournament's quarter-finals
two years consecutively by Russia, who also beat France in the
final in 2002.

