

Snow and frigid temperatures forced the Cleveland Indians and
Seattle Mariners to again postpone a scheduled Major League
Baseball double-header on Sunday.


It marked the third straight day that spring flurries had
affected the teams.


On Friday, a snowstorm sparked a firestorm of controversy when
the umpiring crew heeded the request of Mariners Mike Hargrove to
halt their game with Seattle down 4-0 in the top of the fifth.


Had the Indians managed to get one more out, their victory would
have been official, but instead the game was listed as postponed
and was to be made up as part of a double-header on Saturday.


But those two games were also postponed, and when snow and cold
wiped out Sunday's slate it was decided to try to make up two of
the total three games that have been lost from the series in a
double-header on Monday.


In the meantime, debate over Friday's debacle continued.


Local newspaper headlines declared it a "Snow Job" by the
Mariners, but there was criticism also of the Indians' decision
even to stage the game - their home season-opener - in the
freezing temperatures.


"I understand, it being opening day, trying to get it in,"
Hargrove said. "Nobody had any squabble about that. I think
everybody did everything they could to get it in."


For some Mariners, the snow was an unfamiliar novelty.


Jose Lopez, who was at bat when Friday's game was called, grew up
in Venezuela and was one of several Latin American players on the
field making snowballs and taking photographs before the game.


But he wasn't so keen on trying to hit with snow in his eyes.


"I don't like it," he said.


Unwilling to to put players through another freezing mess,
officials made the decision to cancel Saturday's and Sunday's
games hours before their scheduled start times.


Seattle's Jeff Weaver hopes to finally make his season debut in
the first game of Monday's doubleheader against C.C. Sabathia.
Felix Hernandez is scheduled to start the second game for the
Mariners against Fausto Carmona.

