

The ACT Brumbies moved back into the Super 14 top four when they
beat neighbours the New South Waratahs 36-10 here Sunday.


Led by a top class performance from Wallaby flyhalf Stephen
Larkham, the Brumbies proved far too good for the second from
bottom Waratahs.


Larkham and winger Mark Gerrard scored two tries each and flanker
Jone Tawake grabbed another as the Brumbies notched a bonus point
for scoring four tries or more for the first time this season.


They scored three tries in the first half and two in the second
to end a run of three successive losses to the Waratahs.


Larkham was outstanding, but the Brumbies were also well served
by Wallaby skipper George Gregan and fullback Julien Huxley, who
was involved in most of the ACT's attacking moves.


Brumbies captain George Smith said Larkham and Gregan had proved
they still had plenty to offer Australian rugby with their
ability to run at the opposition defence.


"We were trying the get to their gain line and get momentum, and
it definitely showed tonight," Smith said.


Larkham showed just how important he will be to Australia's World
Cup campaign this year in only the third minute when he breezed
through the Waratahs' defence and threw a long pass with pinpoint
accuracy to Gerrard, who crossed out wide.


Peter Hewat answered with a penalty for the Waratahs but they
never looked like scoring a try in the first half.


By contrast the Brumbies looked dangerous every time they touched
the ball, with Larkham and Huxley causing havoc in the backline.


They scored their second when Huxley ran the ball out from
defence deep in his own half, then sent Gene Fairbanks away.


Two phases later Tawake crashed over, capping off a brilliant
85-metre movement.


Larkham and Huxley were involved again right on halftime as they
exploited the NSW blindside to send Gerrard over from 40 metres
out for his second try, sending them into the break leading 22-3.


Rocky Elsom, the Waratahs' best player by some margin, crossed
soon after the break to give the visitors some hope, but that was
extinguished by two pieces of Larkham brilliance.


On 60 minutes he crashed through two tackles to score out wide
and ten minutes later he put the game beyond doubt when he
strolled over under the posts.

