

The leader of the world's Anglicans on Sunday highlighted
progress in the Northern Ireland peace process as an example of
the need for forgiveness and reconciliation as he delivered his
Easter sermon.


Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams told the congregation at
Canterbury Cathedral, south-east England, that both concepts were
central to the Christian holiday's message and could be applied
to resolve conflicts around the world.


In a historic deal last month, rival Protestant and Catholic
parties agreed for the first time to share power at the
partially-devolved assembly in the British- run province.


Williams said reconciliation between the two communities after
three decades of violence and suspicion had finally allowed
people on both sides of the sectarian divide to hear each other's
opinions and stories.


"Everyone in this history made decisions, some shockingly evil,
some tragic, some foolish. Those decisions and the sufferings
that came from them don't have the power to tell you what
decisions you have to make today," he said.


The most senior cleric in the Church of England told the
congregation that acknowledging wrong-doing, error and
understanding alternative perspectives were vital to promote
peace.


"Going forward requires us all to learn a measure of openness to
discover things about ourselves we did not know, seeing ourselves
through the eyes of another," he said.


"What they see may be fair or unfair, but it is a reality that
has been driving someone's reactions and decisions. We'd better
listen, hateful and humiliating though it may be for us."


Williams also recalled his visit to the Solomon Islands in 2004,
when a leader caught up in the civil war there admitted publicly
his responsibility in the violence.


In doing so, he made the first step towards reconciliation, he
added.


The archbishop called on people to "step towards your neighbour"
as Christians commemorated the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
three days after his crucifixion.


"When in our world we are faced with the terrible deadlocks of
mutual hatred and suspicion, with rival stories of suffering and
atrocity, we have to pray for this resurrection message to be
heard," he said.


Williams' number two in the Church of England, Archbishop of York
John Sentamu, used his Easter sermon to call for the immediate
release of BBC journalist Alan Johnston, who disappeared in Gaza
on March 12.


Elsewhere, Queen Elizabeth II, her husband Prince Philip, Duke of
Edinburgh, and other members of the royal family attended an
Easter service at Saint George's Chapel at her Windsor Castle
residence, west of London.

