

An impressive Fiji closed in on their second successive IRB
Sevens title with victory in the inaugural Adelaide Sevens here
on Sunday.


The Fijians beat arch-rivals Samoa 21-7 in the Cup final,
reversing the result from the final of the Hong Kong sevens a
week earlier.


It extended Fiji's lead on the overall table to 10 points, with
just two tournaments remaining in the season.


Fiji has 104 points, with Samoa moving to a clear second on 94
and New Zealand third on 90.


Fiji's veteran playing-coach Waisale Serevi said his side took to
the field knowing a win was crucial, and was thrilled that they
bounced back after a shock loss to England in the pool matches on
Saturday.


"We wanted this badly," he said.


"When we lost to England I told the boys it was better to lose
today and win tomorrow.


"We know it won't come easy and this was probably the hardest
tournament of all the Sevens we have been playing.


"We've won this one, but it doesn't mean we have won the IRB
Sevens series."


The Fijians were in trouble in several matches during the
tournament, but each time found a way to dig themselves out and
win.


They only just reached the quarter-finals and looked beaten when
they trailed South Africa 17-7 in the quarters.


But they fought back to eventually win 22-17 and then rallied
from 10-0 down against New Zealand in the semis.


Led by William Ryder, named player-of-the-tournament, they fought
back to win the match 24-17 and advance to their fourth
successive final against Samoa, who had thrashed shock semi-
finalist Kenya 31-0.


Samoa was first on the board in Sunday's game through an Apelu
F'Aiuga try in the opening minutes.


Although they were hampered by the absence of Ryder, who was on
the bench with a leg injury, Fiji bounced back to level the
scores at half-time through a try to Setefano Cakau.


Ryder was injected into the match with seven minutes to go, and
almost immediately Fiji made it 14-7 through Mosese Volavola.


That set it up for Ryder, the leading pointscorer for the season,
to fittingly step up and seal the win with a typically explosive
try.


Samoa had beaten Fiji 27-22 in the Hong Kong Sevens final a week
earlier, but there was to be no repeat.


Kenya were the surprise package of the tournament, reaching the
Sevens semi- finals for the first time.


The Kenyans celebrated in style after causing one of the biggest
ever Sevens upsets by downing England 17-12 in the quarter-
finals.


South Africa were one of the contenders for the overall title
when they arrived here, but had a disappointing tournament and
are all but out of the title race, as they are 24 points behind
Fiji in fourth.


The South Africans cruised through the pool games undefeated on
Saturday, but after losing to Fiji in the quarter-finals, they
were thrashed by the host nation in the Plate final, 31-0.


In other finals, Canada won the Shield with a 43-17 win over
Japan, while Wales won the Bowl with a 26-14 win over Tonga.


The next IRB Sevens tournament is in England on May 26 and 27.

