

Authorities have launched negotiations with tribal elders to
quell the vicious sectarian violence in northwest Pakistan which
has left 40 people dead, officials said Sunday.


Fierce sectarian clashes between Sunni and Shiite Muslims in the
remote tribal town of Parachinar erupted on Friday and continued
in nearby villages on Sunday, they said.


A top official dealing with security in tribal areas bordering
Afghanistan Arbab Arif said late Saturday that 40 people were
killed in the clashes, but Parachinar administration official
Sahibzada Anees on Sunday put the death toll at 15.


"I can confirm 15 deaths in the clashes so far," Anees said.


"We have started negotiations with tribal elders to end the
fighting," he said and added that troops could be used in some
outlying areas if needed.


Local officials said that around 100 people were also injured in
the fighting and that fighting had spread to nearby villages.


Gunship helicopters hovered in the sky as troops patrolled
Parachinar on Sunday where authorities have placed a curfew since
Friday. The soldiers have been given shoot-on-sight orders to
curb the violence in the town which has a population of around
70,000.


Clashes between the two communities over a shrine last year left
around 20 people dead.


Anees said trouble erupted after members of the Shiite community
staged a demonstration Friday outside their mosque against local
Sunnis who allegedly chanted anti-Shiite slogans during a
religious rally last week.


Shiites, who account for about 20 per cent of Pakistan's 160
million Sunni- dominated population, are in the majority in
Parachinar.


Sectarian violence involving Sunni and Shiite militants has
claimed more than 4,000 lives since the late 1980s.


The bloodshed comes while unrelated battles between tribesmen and
Al-Qaeda foreign militants have been raging in South Waziristan
tribal district, some 180 kilometres (112 miles) northeast of
Parachinar.


The Waziristan battles have left more than 250 dead -- mostly
Uzbek and Chechan fighters -- in the past three weeks.

