

Italian Alessandro Ballan of the Lampre team used his sprint
prowess to seal victory in the 91st edition of the Tour of
Flanders, held over 259km between Bruges and here Sunday.


Ballan, who becomes the first Italian since Andrea Tafi in 2002
to win the race known as the 'Ronde', surged ahead of Leif Hoste
of the Predictor team to snatch victory from the Belgian in the
closing metres.


It was the biggest win of Ballan's ever-impressive career, but
the third, agonising, runner-up place for Hoste in four editions.


After a day of drama which saw numerous crashes and futile
attacks, Ballan and Hoste pulled ahead of the pack as the climbed
the Grammont, the 18th and last of the race's series of steep and
often cobbled climbs.


Their attack left Belgium's two-time winner Tom Boonen and a
number of other hopefuls struggling to follow, and in the final
16km Ballan and Hoste worked mostly together to maintain their
advantage.


Quick Step leader Boonen, who had crashed earlier in the race
picking up a wrist injury, crucially failed to follow their move
- a setback which more or less ended his hopes of a rare third
consecutive victory.


Despite the late threat of chasing pair Karsten Kroon and Tomas
Viatkus, and a strong bunch of contenders just behind them,
Ballan kept his cool as the final kilometre approached, even as
Hoste gave up taking relays at the front.


That was perhaps the only tactic left for the Belgian one-day
specialist, given Ballan's superior sprinting.


But once Hoste moved from behind to in front of Ballan with
around 300 metres to go, the Italian, who won the Three Days of
La Panne race in midweek, hit the big gears, easily pulled level
and cruised past Hoste just before the line.


Ballan said: "I gave everything I could on the Grammont. Hoste
didn't do much work in the closing kilometre, then he launched
the sprint.


"But I managed to overtake him in the final metres."


Victory in the second one-day classic of the season, after Milan-
San Remo two weeks ago, will give Ballan ideas ahead of Paris-
Roubaix next week, another cobble-laden monster classic, in which
he finished third last year.


Hoste would be forgiven for wanting to soon make amends, having
now been dominated by Ballan, Boonen last year and Germany's
Steffen Wesemann in 2004.


Earlier in the race Swiss Fabian Cancellara, the 2006 Paris-
Roubaix champion, had impressed by forcing the pace on a cobbled
climb around 50km from the finish.


Nearly 13km further on, he launched a more incisive attack after
the summit of the Valkenberg climb.


Cancellara was followed by Belgian Gert Steegmans, of Boonen's
Quick Step team, and they soon caught up with a seven-man
breakaway whose lead at the front began dipping dramatically in
the final 30km.


However none of those riders were interested in stretching their
slim advantage, and they were all caught by a 50-man group,
including Ballan and Hoste, at the foot of the Grammont climb.

