

Ireland captain Trent Johnston believes Bangladesh's shock win
over South Africa can inspire his team to pick up at least one
victory in the World Cup Super Eights.


"It (Bangladesh win) has given us probably some motivation to
compete with these bigger teams," said Johnston of lowly-ranked
Bangladesh's surprising 67-run defeat of Graeme Smith's men here
on Saturday.


Johnston said Bangladesh's win was set up by their spinners.


"We watched the match and Bangladesh performed fantastically well
and their three spinners are crucial to their plans and set up
the win. It's (playing spinners) probably one area that we need
to work hard on in the middle overs."


Bangladesh, who set South Africa a target of 252 to win after
being put into bat, were spurred on by their three left-arm slow
bowlers who shared six wickets between them to shoot their
opponents out for just 184.


While Bangladesh now fancy their outside chances of a place in
the semi-finals, Johnston's men look for their first win in round
two when they take on New Zealand here on Monday.


Ireland, making their debut in the World Cup, sent Pakistan
crashing out of the World Cup with an upset three-wicket win in
the group stage last month. They also tied their match against
Zimbabwe to earn a place in the Super Eights.


Since then Ireland has been competitive in their two matches but
lost to England by 48 runs and by seven wickets against South
Africa.


When asked if Bangladesh's win put pressure on Ireland to make
their presence felt, Johnston replied: "I don't think so,
Bangaldesh play a lot more cricket than us and have more
experience.


"We would like to finish seventh rather than eighth (in the
table) but for that we have to work hard. We will play Bangladesh
(April 15) and will focus on what we can do," said Johnston.


Ireland meet defending champions Australia (April 13), Bangladesh
(April 15) and Sri Lanka (April 18) in their remaining matches.


Johnston said that not being able to repeat the performance which
shocked Pakistan had been disappointing.


"We just want to do the best we can. It would be great if we can
find the kind of performance we put in against Pakistan. We have
sort of disappointed since then."

