

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi on Sunday "strongly"
condemned the reported execution of an Afghan journalist at the
hands of the Taliban militia, the ANSA news agency reported.


"I learned with anguish the news of the murder of the interpreter
that followed that of the (correspondent's) driver," Prodi told
reporters, adding: "We strongly condemn this absurd crime."


The Taliban earlier claimed that the freelance reporter, Ajmal
Naqshbandi, was beheaded Sunday afternoon because the Afghan
authorities refused to negotiate over their demands for the
release of two Taliban militants.


Afghan private news agency Pajhwok reported on Sunday that a
spokesman for the Afghan intelligence services, Saeed Ansari, had
confirmed the execution. But there is still no independent
verification.


Naqshbandi served as the interpreter of La Repubblica
correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was held captive for two
weeks last month and whose Afghan driver Sayed Agha was beheaded.


The Italian opposition on Sunday blamed the prime minister for
the reported tragedy.


"The execution of Mastrogiacomo's interpreter is a terrible
responsibility for the Prodi government. It casts light on the
cynicism of Prodi, of (Foreign Minister Massimo) D'Alema and
company," said parliamentarian Isabelle Berolini of Silvio
Berlusconi's Forza Italia.


Naqshbandi was kidnapped along with Mastrogiacomo on March 4 in
southern Afghanistan.


Mastrogiacomo was released in a controversial swap of five
Taliban prisoners that angered many Afghans and prompted the
United States and other countries to condemn negotiations with
"terrorists".


The Italian journalist himself reacted Sunday to the reports of
Naqshbandi's execution, telling ANSA: "I am distraught,
destroyed. It's a horrible, gratuitous, cowardly homicide."


Mastrogiacomo said he felt "once again catapulted into a
nightmare that seems to have no end".


Naqshbandi was "like me, like so many who do our job on tours
around the world", he said, adding: "There will never be any
difference between me, Ajmal and Sayed."


La Repubblica editor Ezio Mauro said in a statement: "We are in a
time of anguish -- all of La Repubblica, together with Daniele
Mastrogiacomo -- at the news, not yet confirmed, of the possible
killing of Ajmal ... at the hands of Taliban terrorists.


"This matter has already cost a life, that of Sayed, the driver
who accompanied Daniele and Ajmal on their reporting mission to
southern Afghanistan. For days we asked the Taliban not to stain
their hands with more blood ... to return Ajmal to his family."


Mauro added: "The interpreter had no guilt, he is a man who like
Daniele and Sayed went to this area exclusively for work
reasons."


The Italian foreign ministry was in constant contact with Rome's
ambassador to Kabul, Ettore Sequi, and was checking the reports,
ANSA said.


Italian news outlet PeaceReporter earlier on Sunday cast doubt on
the reports.


"We have no confirmation through our own channels," PeaceReporter
director Maso Notarianni told AFP. "I advise great prudence. The
announcement of the execution could be a way to exert pressure."


PeaceReporter is linked to the Italian humanitarian group
Emergency, which was the go-between in negotiations for
Mastrogiacomo's release.


Notarianni noted that the Taliban had set an ultimatum of Monday
for executing Naqshbandi.

