

Taliban militants on Sunday beheaded an Afghan reporter kidnapped
last month with an Italian journalist, after the government
refused to negotiate his release, a militant spokesman said.


"We killed Ajmal (Naqshbandi) today at 1505 (1135 GMT) because
the government did not respond to our demands," said Shohaabuddin
Atal, spokesman for top Taliban military commander Mullah
Dadullah. "He was beheaded."


"They (the government) did not contact us," he told AFP.


Atal said the journalist was beheaded in Helmand's Hazar Joft
district and the Taliban leaders would decide whether to return
his body to his relatives or not.


His claims could not be verified independently.


Another Taliban spokesman had earlier said that the militants had
set the deadline for Naqshbandi's execution on Monday unless the
government agreed to release more jailed insurgents.


"Monday is the last deadline. He (Ajmal) will be killed unless
the government complies with our demands," Taliban spokesman
Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP by telephone.


When asked why he was killed on Sunday, Atal replied: "Because
the government did not contact us and we knew they wouldn't care
for him so we killed him today."


One of Naqshbandi's relatives said that the Taliban last
contacted them early Sunday.


"They called us and said we should pressurise the government.
Their tone this morning was very nasty," the desperate relative
said but asked not to be named.


"We heard media reports that he has been killed. No Taliban has
contacted us about his death directly," he added.


The Taliban are waging a deadly insurgency that includes suicide
attacks and kidnappings of foreign journalists and aid workers,
and their local colleagues, after being ousted from power five
years ago by US-led troops.


Naqshbandi was captured in the southern Helmand province on March
4 with Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was freed
around two weeks later in a controversial exchange for five
Taliban prisoners. Their Afghan driver was beheaded.


President Hamid Karzai said this week no more hostage deals with
Taliban would be made, saying the one he made to free
Mastrogiacomo was an "extraordinary" situation.


He said the deal was made because the Italian government -- which
has 1,800 troops in Afghanistan -- could have collapsed.


La Repubblica newspaper, for which Naqshbandi worked as a
interpreter, voiced "dismay" over the unconfirmed execution,
which the United Nations and the United States also denounced.


"This barbaric killing reminds us of why the United States and
NATO are in Afghanistan in the first place: To help the good
people of that country defeat the Taliban extremists and their
al-Qaeda allies," said US national security spokesman Gordon
Johndroe.


Taliban are also holding two French nationals and three of their
Afghan colleagues after abducting them on Tuesday in the
southwestern province of Nimroz.


The province's governor and police chief have said they were
likely to have been moved to the adjoining province of Helmand,
where Naqshbandi was supposedly killed.


Another Taliban spokesman told AFP earlier Sunday that they would
decide the fate of the French nationals once Naqshbandi's case
was over, while Atal said the Taliban would decide their fate in
the "coming days."


The rebels have not yet made any demand in return for the release
of the French aid workers, who were working for the Terre
d'Enfance (A World for Our Children).


The Taliban last year marked its deadliest year since its ousting
in 2001, with hundreds of people killed, mostly militants but
also local and foreign soldiers and civilians.

