

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki arrived in Tokyo Sunday
half-a-day late, after Iran reportedly refused to allow his plane
to fly through its airspace, Japanese officials said.


Maliki was starting his first visit to Japan and South Korea, two
key economic supporters of Iraq, who sent troops to the country
as part of the US-led coalition.


Maliki's special plane landed just before midnight (1500 GMT), an
official at Tokyo's Haneda airport said, some 10 hours after he
was originally expected.


Iraqi authorities had told Japan that Maliki's arrival would be
"delayed considerably," a Japanese foreign ministry official
said.


"We have not been given any reason for the delay, although we
received unconfirmed information that his flight was unexpectedly
diverted to Dubai because Iran refused to allow the airplane to
fly over the country," the ministry official said.


Iran said that all flights over its territory required prior
permission but stopped short of confirming it had barred Maliki's
jet.


"It is a technical question and for all the flights there has to
be a request to obtain authorisation," foreign ministry spokesman
Mohammad Ali Hosseini said in Tehran.


Iran, which fought a bloody 1980-88 war with Saddam Hussein's
Iraq, supports the US-backed government of Maliki, a member of
the country's Shiite Muslim majority.


But Shiite-dominated Iran and the United States have been at
loggerheads over Washington's charges that Tehran is abetting the
Iraqi insurgency. In January, US forces arrested five Iranians in
the northern city of Arbil.


In his visit Tokyo through Wednesday, Maliki will hold talks with
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and is expected to sign a 700-million-
dollar loan agreement to help his war-torn country improve crude
oil output and power generation.


Japan is a major donor to Iraq and took the landmark step of
sending 600 troops there on a reconstruction mission.


It marked the first time since World War II that officially
pacifist Japan had sent soldiers to a country where fighting was
under way.


Japan ended the troop deployment last year, although Abe recently
decided to extend by two years an air mission flying goods and
personnel into Iraq on behalf of the United Nations and the US-
led coalition.


"Thanks to Self-Defence Forces, our private facilities have been
rebuilt. We hope Japan will further expand its assistance,"
Maliki told Japan's public broadcaster NHK ahead of his trip.


Japan refers to its troops as the Self-Defence Forces due to the
pacifist constitution.

