

Six Canadian NATO soldiers were killed Sunday by a roadside bomb
in southern Afghanistan, the defense ministry here confirmed, in
the deadliest single attack on NATO in the country this year.


The six were killed and two other Canadian troops injured after a
roadside bomb exploded near their vehicle west of the southern
city of Kandahar. An earlier report had placed it in neighboring
Helmand province.


Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper also announced the news
while in France attending a ceremony commemorating Canada's role
in the 1917 battle of Vimy.


"Sadly today has been a difficult day in Afghanistan," Harper
said. "We've learned that an incident has claimed the lives of
six Canadian soldiers and injured a number of others."


A statement from the Canadian defense ministry here said the
attack happened at 1:30 pm (0900 GMT).


Four soldiers were flown by helicopter to a hospital at Kandahar
airfield and one with "serious but not life-threatening injuries
from the blast" would likely be transferred to a US medical
facility in Germany, it said.


Another who only received minor injuries was released from the
hospital along with two who were not wounded.


"It's our belief that it was an improvised explosive device," the
force's deputy command Mike Cessford told reporters in Kabul.


Earlier, NATO had said in a statement that a seventh soldier from
its force was killed in a separate blast. The nationality of this
soldier was unknown.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops
to have died in Afghanistan since January. The figure includes
those from the US-led coalition which has more than 10,000
troops.


Canada has some 2,500 soldiers in the south of the country.


The six deaths were the biggest number of NATO International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) casualties killed in a single
incident this year. The number of Canadians to have died in the
country since 2002 now stands at 51.


ISAF did not say who might have set the bomb, but similar attacks
in the past have been blamed on the Taliban militants who have
been waging an insurgency against the government and foreign
troops.


The insurgency, launched months after the ouster of the Taliban
by a US-led invasion in late 2001, intensified last year.


As part of their campaign the Taliban have widely used roadside
bombs, said to be a tactic copied from insurgents fighting the
US-led coalition force in Iraq.

