

Defending world champion Fernando Alonso proved Sunday he has no
intention of letting his rivals steal his title with a perfectly-
judged drive to win the Malaysian Grand Prix.


The Spaniard led his young McLaren Mercedes-Benz teammate Lewis
Hamilton home in a spectacular one-two triumph, as the pair
handed out a lesson in race strategy to their rivals at the
sweltering Sepang International Circuit.


It was the 16th victory of Alonso's career, his first for his new
McLaren team in only his second race with them, and his second in
Malaysia.


He won in 2005 and finished second last year, both results
achieved while driving for Renault and en route to two successive
world titles.


"It is a perfect result, a dream," said Alonso. "This is such a
tough race and you never know about tyres, but we were relaxed in
the end. I lost radio communications from lap ten, like Kimi
(Raikkonen) in Australia, so it is a lucky thing!


"But they fixed it and to win is absolutely fantastic and it is a
wonderful surprise to achieve this after such a short time with
the team. Everyone has worked so hard. So much has been done by
the whole team."


Hamilton, 22, of Britain, confirmed the dazzling potential he
demonstrated on his debut in Australia last month, when he
finished third, by driving a perfect race in support and defence
of his team-mate on his own way to a well-deserved second place,
17 seconds behind Alonso.


Alonso's victory also ended a long 20-races McLaren drought.


It was their first win since they won in Japan in October 2005
and the first one-two since the Brazilian race that same year.


The result hoisted 25-year-old Alonso to the top of the embryonic
world drivers' championship ahead of Raikkonen, who finished
third for Ferrari ahead of German Nick Heidfeld in a BMW Sauber.


Raikkonen fought hard in the closing stages to close the gap on
Hamilton, but the young tyro held him off to finish seven-tenths
of a second ahead as they crossed the line.


"That was the toughest race of my life," said Hamilton
afterwards. "It was so difficult, so hard to defend. I ran out of
water -- and now I feel overwhelmed!"


"To see two Ferraris in your mirrors behind you and to know they
are slightly lighter and probably quicker than you - it is so
difficult to hold them back."


Brazilian Felipe Massa, in the other Ferrari, who started from
pole, made mistakes and finished fifth ahead of Italians
Giancarlo Fisichella, who claimed sixth place for Renault, and
Jarno Trulli, who finished seventh for Toyota.


On another sweltering day, with air temperatures hovering around
34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit) and the track
temperature climbing to 57 degrees, together with humidity of 58
per cent, everyone felt the strain.


At the start, Alonso, in second place, made a smooth and powerful
attack on pole-sitting Massa and swept ahead of him into the
first right-hand bend.


Massa fought to recover but was swiftly out-witted again by the
pace and intuition of Hamilton who shot through to claim second
as the cars fought for road space and positions through turns two
and three on the run towards the back straight.


Massa, frustrated, had to settle for third with Raikkonen fourth
and neither Ferrari driver was able to do much about it.


Alonso settled into his rhythm and reeled off a series of fastest
laps as he burnt off his fuel load.


Hamilton, in only his second Grand Prix, rode 'shotgun' behind
him, allowing the Spaniard to open up a 14-second gap before the
opening round of pit stops.


Once the leading group had all changed tyres and refuelled for
the first time, the order was settled again with Alonso ten
seconds clear of Hamilton as McLaren dominated ahead of
Raikkonen, in his Ferrari, Heidfeld and Massa.


Hamilton, as expected, raced superbly to hold his position,
notably in the early laps when he was attacked by the Ferraris
and not only defended and resisted, but re-passed them
brilliantly when either managed to overtake.

