

Greeks celebrated Orthodox Easter on Sunday with family
gatherings across the country for the traditional meal of roast
lamb, bringing the Lent fast to a close.


City centres were deserted as millions flocked to their home
villages and islands for the occasion. Planes, ships and trains
were booked to capacity from Good Friday as the mass exodus
began.


Political leaders spent the day visiting military barracks, as
tradition dictates, where they joined soldiers in breaking into
red-dyed Easter eggs. Prime Minister Costas Caramanlis joined
President Karolos Papoulias in visiting an army camp on the
Greek-Albanian border.


The Easter celebrations are the biggest religious festival in
Greece, where 97 percent of the population is Orthodox. They are
preceded by a period of fasting during which meat consumption
falls dramatically.


The large Greek diaspora in the United States, Australia and
Canada held similar feasts on Sunday to mark Orthodox Easter,
news reports said.


Millions of worshippers crammed into churches on Saturday around
midnight to hear priests announce that "Christ is risen", and to
light a candle from the "holy fire" in Jerusalem's Church of the
Holy Sepulchre, which is taken around the world.


The flame arrived in Athens on board a special Olympic Airlines
flight, and was welcomed by an honour guard and band, a reception
normally accorded to visiting heads of state.


Greeks celebrated by letting off firecrackers, a custom that
dates from the 19th century and which causes several injuries
every year and occasional deaths.


Police launch an annual crackdown on firework sales, which are
illegal without an official permit, this year arresting 159
people around the country and confiscating around two million
explosives of various types.


But Greeks flouted the ban by constructing their own explosives,
which are often more potent.


Two men in their fifties died in Agrinio, western Greece in
separate incidents over the weekend when makeshift fireworks
exploded in their hands.


Two youths were injured in related incidents.


Another 28 people were killed in traffic accidents in the Easter
exodus from April 1, compared to 42 deaths last year, the traffic
police department said.

