

Thai authorities cancelled tests of 79 tsunami warning towers
along its coast over fears they would cause panic among tourists
and locals, senior officials said Sunday.


Thailand, which was hit by deadly waves two years ago, began
Saturday testing the loudspeakers on the towers along the Andaman
coast, which had recently been linked up by satellite to a US-
funded deep-sea warning buoy deployed in December.


During the test, the beachfront towers were due to broadcast a
two-second knocking sound every morning at 9:00 am around the
coastline in six provinces.


The test was meant to carry on indefinitely to make sure the
system was always working.


But officials called off the operation Saturday after testing the
loudspeakers at just two towers, amid concern that locals and
tourists might think a real tsunami was heading to the beach and
panic.


Smith Thammararoj, director for Thailand's National Disaster
Warning Centre, said the tests were halted because there was a
lack of communication between local authorities.


"The test for the two towers worked well," Smith told AFP.


"But the tests at the other towers were cancelled as information
had not been delivered well enough to explain to local people and
tourists, and if we had carried on the test, it would have scared
people."


In the event of a tsunami, the US-funded warning buoy is designed
to detect the earthquake which causes the waves and send a
warning signal through the satellite to emergency officials and
to the coastal towers.


Smith said his centre will meet Monday to discuss plans for the
next test, but stressed that it was important to hold them
regularly to ensure the system worked.


Some 5,400 people were killed in Thailand, roughly half of them
foreign holidaymakers, when a tsunami ripped across the Indian
Ocean in December 2004.


The disaster killed 220,000 people around the region.


The test came just days after another tsunami struck the western
Solomon Islands in the Pacific Ocean, killing 34 people and
displacing 5,500 others.

