

"We underestimated the difficulty," said a French hiker who along
with a friend survived seven weeks lost in a south American
jungle on a diet of turtles and tarantulas.


Loic Pillois and Guilhem Nayral had been missing in French Guiana
since mid- February when they turned up Thursday after living off
river water, seeds, spiders and the meat of two turtles.


"We underestimated the difficulty of getting through the forest,"
said a bearded Pillois, his scratched and emaciated legs visible
beneath a pair of khaki shorts.


He was speaking to reporters Saturday in a hotel in Cayenne, the
main town of this French territory bordering Brazil, before
flying back to Europe. Nayral, suffering from exhaustion and
severe weight loss, was still being treated in a local hospital.


Asked what he would do differently if setting off on such a trip
again, Pillois said "we would take a satellite phone with us."


He and his friend, both 34 years old and both landscape
gardeners, had headed off in mid-February from the Grand Kanori
rapids, on the banks of the river Approuague in the heart of
Guiana, with only a map and compass to guide them.


They walked four or five hours a day, said Pillois, but after 12
days, when they had still not reached their planned destination,
"we stopped in a clearing and we made a fire because we thought
so helicopters could see us."


Their makeshift home consisted of "a few branches to shelter us,
a tarpaulin and a fire."


"In our clearing we coud hear helicopters, sometimes several
times a day. But then we stopped hearing them. We couldn't decide
whether to stay or to go," he said.


Rescuers had on March 26 called off their search for the hikers
after making 50 flights over the forest where they were believed
to be.


"We had enough food supplies for 12 or 13 days. Then on the 13th
day we had nothing left," said Pillois.


"We started eating palm seeds from which you had to remove the
thorns, nuts, small animals that we cooked. We gathered wood to
make fires."


Pillois pointed out that the rule when in difficulties in a
forest is to stop and wait for help to arrive.


"That's what we did for three weeks," he said.


But eventually they decided to move on.


"The path was very steep, and there were terrible storms. Guilhem
was having intestinal problems. During the last days he had
problems carrying his bag."


Towards the end, for every two days of walking they would have
one day of rest. Pillois said he was starting to get very
worried.


"I wondered how it was going to end, particularly with respect to
Guilhem, who is my best friend and will remain my best friend."


Nayral was eventually airlifted to safety after his friend
managed to reach the village of Saul in central Guiana and
instruct rescuers how to find him. According to his brother
Gilles, he had lost 20 kilos (44 pounds) and was "almost
unrecognisable."


Pillois said he and his friend had also fretted about their
families.


"We could well imagine their anguish," said Pillois, who lives in
Margaux in southwestern France.

