

Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, who won a third term Sunday as
leader of the world's largest city, is an unrepentent nationalist
who relishes in provoking politically correct circles.


The novelist-turned-politician has led the metropolis since 1999,
earning high approval ratings with policies such as banning
diesel engines, creating a new- look Tokyo marathon and bidding
to bring the 2016 Summer Olympics.


But the 74-year-old has become best known for his sharp tongue in
a country fond of reticence. Ishihara has lashed out at
everything from China to feminists to modern art.


He has used racial slurs to ridicule Chinese and Korean residents
and denounced the United States as a nation of "bigots," waging a
long public battle for Japanese commercial jets to use a
sprawling US base near Tokyo.


Ishihara is particularly fond of throwing cold water on sacred
liberal causes.


When Bob Geldof and Bono started worldwide "Live 8" concerts in
Tokyo to drum up support to fight African poverty, Ishihara
scoffed at their "pretension" and accused Europeans of failing to
atone for colonialism -- a charge often levelled at Japan.


As a writer, he is keen to fight the left on its own ground -- in
culture, education and intellectual circles.


When he was invited to inaugurate a major exhibition of the
Cartier Foundation last year in Tokyo, Ishihara turned up to
denounce modern art as "crap" and extoll Japanese culture as
superior to that of the West, to the dismay of the audience.


He has hit back at teachers who refused his orders to perform the
national anthem at school ceremonies, calling the instructors
"public servants receiving salaries from taxpayers."


Born to a shipping executive in Japan's northern island of
Hokkaido, Ishihara had a carefree youth. He achieved fame at only
23 by writing "Season of the Sun," a novel about youths from
respectable families exploring the pleasures of the underworld,
which won the prestigious Akutagawa Prize.


The novel later became a film that included both the future
governor and his brother, Yujiro, an acclaimed movie star who
died of liver cancer in 1987.


Ishihara, who recalls disliking US forces stationed in Japan
after World War II, stormed onto the national stage in 1989 by
co-authoring "The Japan that Can Say No," accusing leaders of the
then booming economy of being weak-kneed to Washington.


More recently he has demanded Japan say no to cooperation with a
growing China, Tokyo's top trading partner.


In a 2005 interview with AFP, Ishihara said China had "ripped
off" Japanese technology.


"We have offered a lot of things to China, but we can't let China
steal our software free of charge," Ishihara said.


Just after the Tokyo election, a film penned by Ishihara about
the lives of young kamikaze pilots who died in World War II
suicide missions will hit cinemas.


In a press conference last year for the film, entitled "I Go to
Die for Nothing But You," Ishihara marched in 20 young men
dressed in pilot goggles and headbands bearing the Japanese flag
who offered military salutes.


"This is a movie about beautiful young men going into fatal
missions," Ishihara said, regretting that Japan, officially
pacifist since its defeat, has lost its "strong will."


Ishihara has enjoyed particular popularity among older women,
which some attribute to the enduring popularity of his late film
star brother.


The support comes even though Ishihara has been hauled to court
on charges of discrimination for describing women past
childbearing age as "hags" and suggesting they would be better
off dead.


More recently, Francophone teachers have sued Ishihara after he
said French was disqualified as an international language because
it is impossible to count numbers in it.

