

Irish President Mary McAleese and Prime Minister Bertie Ahern led
a ceremony in central Dublin Sunday to mark the 91st anniversary
of the country's Easter Rising against British rule.


The event -- outside Dublin's bullet-marked General Post Office
in O'Connell Street, the headquarters for the week-long rebellion
-- was marked by a fly-past and involved 350 members of the
country's defence forces.


The military presence was on a significantly reduced scale from
last year when 25,000 members of the defence forces and veterans
of peace-keeping missions marched through the city.


Last year was the first time for 36 years that commemorative
events for the 1916 Rising had involved the military.


In 1970, as violence sharply increased in British-run Northern
Ireland, the government abandoned the tradition of Easter Sunday
military parades to mark the insurrection.


Catholic political party Sinn Fein's military wing, the Irish
Republican Army (IRA), at the time used the example of 1916 as
justification for its campaign of violence to drive the British
out of Northern Ireland.


The IRA called a ceasefire in 1997 and has since disarmed while
Sinn Fein and its Protestant rivals agreed last month to form a
power-sharing government in Belfast for the first time.


The Easter Rising anniversary this year was also marked by more
than 100 commemorations north and south of the border, including
in Dublin and Belfast, by Sinn Fein -- with the symbolism not
lost for Sinn Fein.


"It is now less than a decade to the 100th anniversary of the
1916 Rising and we are closer than ever before to ending British
jurisdiction and bringing about Irish unity and independence,"
said party chairwoman Mary Lou McDonald.


The April 24 to May 1, 1916 Rising ended in failure with about
500 dead, 2,500 wounded and more than 2,000 imprisoned.


At the time, with about 150,000 Irishmen fighting in World War I
with British regiments, the insurrectionists had limited support
in the country.


When the Rising was put down the British executed 16 rebel
leaders and subordinates and they were transformed into martyrs.


As a result, the abortive rebellion became a key factor in
rallying support for the country's freedom struggle.

