

Kevin Pietersen's maiden World Cup hundred, and his first against
Australia, was the cornerstone of England's 247 all out in their
Super Eights clash with the world champions at the Sir Vivian
Richards Stadium here Sunday.


Pietersen, whose 104 was England's first century this World Cup,
put on 140 for the third wicket with Ian Bell (77) after his side
slumped to 24 for two.


But Australia fought back by taking three wickets for 15 runs in
six overs as England declined from 164 for two to 179 for five.


Ravi Bopara, who almost saw England to victory in Wednesday's
two-run defeat against Sri Lanka, chipped in with 21 in a stand
of 51 with Pietersen.


Left-arm quick Nathan Bracken had an economical three for 33,
fast bowler Shaun Tait three for 41 and Glenn McGrath, in what
could be his last match against England before retirement, three
for 62.


Just 51 runs came in the last 10 overs with Pietersen, whose
fourth century at this level came off 117 balls with one six and
six fours, scoring just one boundary between fifty and a hundred
when he was dropped twice


Although England didn't have to win to keep their semi-final
hopes alive, defeat would lead them needing to win all three of
their remaining Super Eights matches against Bangladesh, South
Africa and the West Indies while hoping other results went their
way.


Against an Australia side unbeaten in the tournament so far,
England saw skipper Michael Vaughan (five) and Andrew Strauss,
normally an opener but batting at three after Middlesex team-mate
Ed Joyce was dropped, both play on to Tait.


Vaughan's early exit after winning the toss meant he'd now scored
just 83 runs from six tournament innings.


Pietersen, who had his tour of Australia ended when McGrath broke
his rib in Melbourne in January, advanced down the pitch and
whipped him through mid-wicket in trademark style.


Bell was especially severe on McGrath, hitting him for three
fours in his third over, the best a front-foot drive through mid-
off.


McGrath saw his first three overs cost 25 runs.


Australia captain Ricky Ponting, without injured pace bowling
all-rounder Shane Watson, brought on part-time left-arm spinner
Michael Clarke whom Pietersen lofted for a four and six over
long-on off successive balls.


Andrew Symonds, fit to bowl medium-pace after a biceps problem,
saw his six overs cost 40 runs.


The South Africa-born Pietersen, still on 50, had a reprieve when
after driving a Symonds full toss, he saw a diving Ponting at
mid-on drop what would have been a superb one-handed catch.


He had another slice of luck when, on 63, he miscued a drive off
Tait only for Matthew Hayden, coming round from mid-off, to drop
the seemingly simple chance despite getting two hands to the
ball.


Australia, beaten 2-0 at home in England in the CB series finals
before a five- wicket warm-up win in St Vincent last month, then
regained control.


Bell drove McGrath straight to Michael Hussey at cover to end a
90-ball innings with nine fours and Paul Collingwood (two) was
caught behind off Tait.


Andrew Flintoff's wretched time with the bat continued when,
stranded on one knee, he misread left-arm wrist spinner Brad Hogg
and was stumped by Adam Gilchrist for four.


England, as happened against Sri Lanka, had seen a promising
position disappear rapidly.


Pietersen fell in the penultimate over when he holed out against
Bracken to Clarke at long-off.

