

Families of British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and
military figures criticised the government on Sunday for allowing
the 15 mariners held for 13 days by Iran to sell their stories.


But the defence ministry defended the highly unusual decision to
relax its ban on service personnel striking financial deals with
media organisations, saying there were "exceptional
circumstances".


Newspaper reports on Sunday suggested the group could make up to
250,000 pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between them,
with the only woman in the group standing to net 150,000 pounds.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, a 26-year-old mother-of-one who
became the public face of the crisis, has already signed a
lucrative television and tabloid newspaper deal, according to the
Sunday Times and Sunday Telegraph.


Amid mounting negative reaction, the defence ministry said in a
statement: "It was clear that the stories they had to tell were
likely to have emerged via family and friends regardless of any
decision the (Royal) Navy took."


Many of the mariners and their families had already been
contacted directly by the media. Allowing them to speak would
allow officials to have "sight" of what they would say and allow
them access to "proper media support", it said.


One of the captured sailors, Lieutenant Felix Carman, told BBC
News Online that he was "not interested in making money out of
this. My main aim is to tell the story".


"I'd happily do it for free. But if there is money on offer then
it would probably go to charity."


Captain Chris Air, who was also detained by Iran, told ITV News
that he would also not speak to the newspapers, adding that "it
didn't seem that traumatic at the time to me and I don't think
it's going to affect me in a terrible way".


The main opposition Conservatives expressed concerns, however,
about the "undignified" deal while the smaller Liberal Democrats
said they were concerned about inadvertent leaks of sensitive
information.


Mike Aston, whose son Russell was one of six British military
policeman killed by a mob in Iraq in June 2003, said he was
"absolutely amazed" at the decision.


"I can put my hand on my heart and say that I've never sought or
made a penny out of it in any way, shape or form," he said.


"I think to actually sell (my) story would besmirch my son's
memory."


Retired British colonel Bob Stewart, who commanded United Nations
troops in Bosnia, said he understood the ministry's thinking but
it made him "a bit sick".


Families of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan had not
struck similar deals, he noted in an interview with the BBC.


Kelvin Mackenzie, former editor of The Sun tabloid -- Britain's
best-selling daily -- told the BBC that he was concerned about
the precedent being set for future stories.


"There has been a fundamental error here, and if I were the MoD,
I would get into my reverse gear immediately," he said.


Iran detained the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal
Marines in the northern Gulf on March 23 for allegedly breaching
its territorial waters. Britain has denied the charge.


The group were released on Wednesday, returning to Britain the
next day. On Friday, they said they were subjected to
psychological pressure and were blindfolded, shackled and kept
isolated.


Turney was not at Friday's news conference and has not yet spoken
publicly.


Britain's best-known public relations specialist and celebrity
agent Max Clifford said fathers of two of the 15 had contacted
him on the advice of the defence ministry.


He recommended they donate any money to families of the 140
British service personnel who had lost their lives in Iraq to
prevent a backlash.

