

Six NATO-led soldiers died from injuries sustained Sunday in a
mine explosion in southern Afghanistan, the alliance force said
in a statement.


"Six ISAF soldiers died today in Southern Afghanistan as a result
of injuries sustained when the vehicle they were traveling in hit
an explosive device," the International Security Assistance Force
said in a statement.


The latest casualties brought to seven the number of ISAF
soldiers killed on Sunday.


One ISAF soldier was killed and two others were wounded in a
separate but similar blast in southern Afghanistan Sunday
morning.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops,
including those from the US-led coalition which has more than
10,000 troops, to have died in Afghanistan since the beginning of
this year.


ISAF has 37,000 troops from 37 nations.


ISAF, in line with its policies, would not provide information on
the exact location of the incidents or reveal the nationalities
of the dead soldiers, leaving it to relevant national authorities
to do so.


An ISAF vehicle was also damaged in the second blast, the
statement said.


The six deaths were the biggest number of ISAF casualties killed
in a single incident this year.


The force did not say who might have planted the device but
similar bombings in the past have been blamed on the Taliban
militants who have been waging an insurgency against government
and foreign troops.


The insurgency launched months after the ouster of the Taliban by
a US-led invasion in late 2001 was intensified last year.


As part of their campaign the Taliban have widely used roadside
bombs, which many say are a tactic copied from insurgents
fighting the US-led coalition force in Iraq.


The Taliban, whose government was toppled for not handing over
Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden to the US after the September 11
attacks on US cities in 2001, have also been using suicide
bombers -- another militant tactic widely used in Iraq.


A US-led soldier was slightly injured when a suicide bomber
exploded Sunday a bomb-filled van near a military convoy in the
eastern province of Nangarhar near the Pakistani border.


Authorities blamed the bombing on the enemies of Afghanistan's
peace and stability, a phrase officials use to refer to the
remnants of the Taliban.

