

At least 15 people were killed in an attack south of Baghdad on
Sunday as US troops captured a suspected senior Al-Qaeda militant
and violence raged on four years after the toppling of Saddam
Hussein.


A security official in Baghdad said the 15 Iraqis were killed and
at least 25 wounded when a rocket hit a building in downtown
Mahmudiyah south of the capital, but the local mayor said a car
bomb had targeted an industrial area.


Mayor Moyaid al-Amary said 17 people had been killed when a car
bomb exploded in an industrial zone in northern Mahmudiyah.


The attack came as the US military announced the deaths of
another four American soldiers in a roadside bomb explosion in
the restive province of Diyala, where insurgents have becoming
increasingly active in recent months.


Saturday's bombing pushed to 21 the number of US troops killed
this month alone and to 3,269 the toll since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


Violence elsewhere in Baghdad on Sunday killed another six
Iraqis, including five people in a car bombing in Al-Alam, a
mixed Shiite-Sunni district that has been rife with sectarian
conflict.


The unrest provided a grim backdrop for Iraq's dwindling
Christian minority who donned their Sunday best for traditional
Easter Church services before retiring to quiet celebrations at
home.


In his Easter blessing, Pope Benedict XVI lamented that "nothing
positive comes from Iraq" -- home to one of the world's oldest
Christian communities.


Insurgents continue to stage attacks -- mainly bombings --
despite a massive security operation launched eight weeks ago to
quell bloodshed in Baghdad that has killed thousands in the past
year alone.


The US military said on Sunday it captured a leading Al-Qaeda
suspect with reported links to a number of deadly car bombings in
the Baghdad area and with ties to several senior Al-Qaeda
figures.


It did not name him, but a US military spokesman told AFP the
captured militant acted as a point man for Al-Qaeda's Baghdad
commander.


He was a "gatekeeper, somebody through whom you needed to go to
meet the leader," he said. Two other known Al-Qaeda militants
were also seized.


South of Baghdad, an officer in the 8th Iraqi army division that
entered the central Shiite city of Diwaniyah with US forces on
Friday to battle militiamen said clashes were continuing for a
third day.


There was no immediate confirmation from the US military.


The Iraqi source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the
military was still facing resistance in southern areas of
Diwaniyah, in an operation aimed at returning control to the
Iraqi government.


Doctor Hamid Gaati said that over the past three days the
hospital had recorded nine dead and 25 wounded, and added that
wards were running short of medicine and medical staff faced
difficulties getting to work.


According to the most recent update from the US military on
Saturday, fighting in Diwaniyah had been "less steady" than on
Friday.


It said one armed militia fighter had been killed in an air
strike, that 39 suspected militiamen had been detained for
questioning and several arms and ammunitions caches seized,
including eight explosively formed projectiles.


Such devices have been blamed for the deaths of at least 170 US
personnel since May 2004. The white-hot slugs of molten copper
they emit when they explode can rip through the armour of troop
carriers.


Further south, the British military handed over a key base in
Basra to the Iraqi army on Sunday as part of gradual plans to
withdraw from the country.


"Iraqi forces have moved into the Shatt al-Arab base and British
troops are moving out as we speak," British Lieutenant Colonel
Kevin Stratford-Wright said by telephone from Basra.


In February, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said the number of
British troops in Iraq would be cut from 7,100 to 5,500 by the
middle of 2007.

