

Tiger Woods prepared to add another chapter to his incredible
legend with a 13th major victory here Sunday at the Masters
despite historic difficult conditions at Augusta National Golf
Club.


Out to deny Woods a fifth green jacket and third consecutive
major triumph were a host of rivals out to make some history of
their own, including leader Stuart Appleby of Australia,
England's Justin Rose and Ireland's Padraig Harrington.


Appleby was set for an afternoon start to his bid to become the
first Aussie to win the Masters, the only major no golfer from
Down Under has ever claimed.


Rose and Harrington were among several Europeans trying to
capture that continent's first major triumph since Scotsman Paul
Lawrie won the 1999 British Open.


Woods was looking to move within five of matching the all-time
major win mark of 18 set by Jack Nicklaus with a victory that
would leave him only a US Open triumph shy of his second "Tiger
Slam" - owning all four major crowns at once.


The stage was set for another epic back-nine finishing drama
despite frigid temperatures and a firm, fast course playing its
hardest since lengthening began in the wake of Woods' first
victory in 1997 with a tournament-record 18-under par 270.


Augusta National reasserted itself this year at a record pace of
its own.


Appleby's 54-hole total of two-over par 218 was the highest to
ever lead the Masters after three rounds and players were clearly
on pace to shatter the mark for the highest 72-hole winning
score, one-over 289 by Sam Snead in 1954 and Jack Burke in 1956.


Burke's rally from eight strokes back on the final day is the
record last-day Masters comeback, but the stage was set for more
magic as players backspun off the leaderboard so fast on Saturday
it shook the field.


Woods, who typically makes a late run, finished bogey-bogey for
the second time in three days but still wound up in the final
group when a handufl of rivals ahead of him stumbled in over the
back nine.


Woods began the final round sharing second with Rose, a stroke
behind Appleby and a stroke ahead of Harrington, American Zach
Johnson and hometown favorite Vaughn Taylor with Bradley Dredge
of Wales another shot back on 221.


Defending champion Phil Mickelson was among eight others on 222,
a group that also included South Africans Retief Goosen, Rory
Sabbatini and Tim Clark, England's Luke Donald and US world
number two Jim Furyk.

