

Pope Benedict XVI decried the "suffering in the world" in his
traditional Easter address on Sunday, dwelling on the plight of
many Africans and despairing over the situation in Iraq.


"How many wounds, how much suffering there is in the world!" the
leader of the world's 1.1 billion Roman Catholics said in his
"Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message.


"Natural calamities and human tragedies that cause innumerable
victims and enormous material destruction are not lacking," he
said under a sunny spring sky, with tens of thousands of pilgrims
thronging St Peter's Square and the main street leading up to it.


"I look with apprehension at the conditions prevailing in several
regions of Africa," the pope said from the loggia of St Peter's
Basilica.


"Zimbabwe is in the grip of a grievous crisis, and for this
reason the bishops of that country in a recent document indicated
prayer and a shared commitment for the common good as the only
way forward," he said.


The pope added: "In Darfur and in the neighbouring countries,
there is a catastrophic, and sadly to say underestimated,
humanitarian situation," referring to the western state of Sudan
and neighbouring Chad and the Central African Republic.


At least 200,000 people have died and more than two million fled
their homes since the Darfur conflict erupted in February 2003.


"In Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo the violence
and looting of the past weeks raises fears for the future of the
Congolese democratic process and the reconstruction of the
country," the pope said.


"In Somalia, the renewed fighting has driven away the prospect of
peace and worsened a regional crisis, especially with regard to
the displacement of populations and the traffic of arms," he
said.


Turning to the Middle East, while noting "some signs of hope in
the dialogue between Israel and the Palestinian Authority," the
pope said: "Nothing positive comes from Iraq, torn apart by
continual slaughter as the civil population flees."


Benedict speaks rarely about the situation in Iraq, where attacks
continue in and around Baghdad despite a massive security
operation launched in February to quell daily clashes that have
claimed thousands of lives in the last year alone.


He appealed in his last "Urbi et Orbi" message -- at Christmas --
"to all those who hold in their hands the fate of Iraq, that
there will be an end to the brutal violence."


Easter Sunday saw a series of attacks in the Baghdad area that
killed at least 20 people and wounded dozens, security officials
said in the Iraqi capital.


The pope, his gold vestments and mitre sparkling in the sun,
continued: "I am thinking of the scourge of hunger, of incurable
diseases, of terrorism and kidnapping of people, of the thousand
faces of violence which some people attempt to justify in the
name of religion, of contempt for life, of the violation of human
rights and the exploitation of persons."


"My thoughts go to recent events in Madagascar, in the Solomon
Islands, in Latin America and in other regions of the world,"
Benedict said in the message broadcast live by 67 television
stations.


He followed the speech with blessings in 62 languages, from
English to Arabic and Chinese, to Gaelic and even Esperanto.


Pilgrims, many waving flags from their home countries, made
themselves heard with enthusiastic cheers at the pope's greeting
in their native tongue.


Earlier Sunday the pope, who will turn 80 on April 16, presided
over Easter mass in the sun-drenched square decked out in
springtime flowers, as Swiss Guards stood at attention.


For the first time this Easter an icon -- a holy work of art
venerated by Orthodox Christians -- was placed near the altar.


Easter celebrates the Resurrection of Christ after his
crucifixion on Good Friday. This year all Christians, regardless
of the calendar they follow, are celebrating Easter on the same
day.

