

The Basque separatist group ETA declared a renewed commitment to
peace Sunday but warned that it would not abandon its armed
struggle for independence in northern Spain "under current
conditions".


In a lengthy interview published in the Basque newspaper Gara,
ETA said it could envision a "scenario with no more violence" if
"attacks" by the Spanish Socialist government against the Basque
country cease.


It also said it stood by its ceasefire declaration of March 24
last year, despite its interruption in December by a car bomb
attack at Madrid's airport that left two people dead.


But ETA said it would not give up its arms "under the current
conditions", telling Gara: "The reasons for resorting to an armed
fight still exist."


In recent weeks, a sweep by Spanish police dismantled an ETA
commando unit that had carried out 24 attacks between 2004 and
2006, and led to the arrests of at least nine suspected ETA
members.


ETA did not specifically mention the operation in the interview
with Gara, which is the usual vehicle for its declarations.


But it called for an end to "police repression", which it said
was an obstacle to the peace process. The group said December's
attack was "a response to the permanent attacks of the Spanish
government".


"Our commitment is to a process which leads to a real democratic
solution to the conflict," ETA said in the article, which was
accompanied by photographs of two people wearing hoods and a
Basque beret with a tape recorder at their side.


A spokeswoman for Spain's Socialist government refused to comment
on the report, reiterating Madrid's stand that it expects only
one thing from ETA: "A definitive renunciation of violence."


But ETA's political wing, Batasuna, which is banned from
participating in elections because of its links to the group,
welcomed it as a "great opportunity".


Spokesman Arnaldo Otegi said the statement was "an invitation for
agreement and for the (peace) process" which "clearly put forward
(ETA's) intention to end its (violent) means of responding".


However, the secretary general of the conservative opposition
Popular Party, Angel Acebes, said ETA's comments represented
"blackmail and an ultimatum" and urged Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero to refuse it.


ETA's 38-year-old armed campaign for an independent Basque
homeland has claimed more than 800 lives.


The Spanish government began talks with the group following last
year's ceasefire but suspended them after the Madrid airport
bombing.


In January, Zapatero said the attack marked a "full stop" in the
peace process, although ETA insisted the ceasefire was still in
place.


On March 1, the government provoked opposition anger by allowing
a Basque separatist hunger-striker to finish his prison sentence
for 25 murders at home.


Meanwhile, Batasuna began to distance itself from the violence
and is trying to get around the ban on taking part in May's local
elections.


Both the European Union and the US State Department consider ETA
to be a terrorist organisation.

