

Families of British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and
military figures criticised the government on Sunday for allowing
the 15 mariners held for 13 days by Iran to sell their stories.


In a highly unusual decision, the defence ministry said it was
relaxing its ban on service personnel striking financial deals
with media organisations because of the "exceptional
circumstances".


The Sunday Times said the group could make up to 250,000 pounds
(371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between them, with the only
woman in the group standing to net 150,000 pounds.


But Mike Aston, whose son Russell was one of six British military
policeman killed by a mob in Iraq in June 2003, said he was
"absolutely amazed" at the decision.


"Let's put it this way, regarding my son's death -- and it was a
very high profile case -- I can put my hand on my heart and say
that I've never sought or made a penny out of it in any way,
shape or form," he said.


"I think to actually sell (my) story would besmirch my son's
memory."


Rose Gentle, whose son Gordon was killed in the southern city of
Basra in June 2003, told the Sunday Times: "This is wrong and I
don't think it should be allowed by the MoD (Ministry of
Defence).


"None of the parents who have lost their loved ones in Iraq have
sold their stories."


Retired British colonel Bob Stewart, who commanded United Nations
troops in Bosnia, said he understood the ministry's thinking,
which said there had been "considerable media interest" in the
group's stories.


But he said it made him "a bit sick" as families of soldiers
killed in Iraq and Afghanistan had not struck similar deals over
what he said was a military disaster.


Potentially contradictory testimony could also play into the
hands of Iran, which has dismissed claims they mistreated the
Britons as "propaganda", he told BBC News 24 television.


Iran detained the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal
Marines in the northern Gulf on March 23 for allegedly breaching
the Islamic republic's territorial waters, although the Britons
denied the charge.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced their release on
Wednesday. They returned to Britain on Thursday and on Friday
said they were subjected to psychological pressure and were
blindfolded, shackled and kept isolated.


Newspapers are likely to be most keen to secure the first
interview with Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, a married mother
of one, who became the public face of the tense stand-off,
appearing on television in a headscarf.


Ahmadinejad also singled her out, criticising Britain for sending
a young mother on active service.


The Sunday Telegraph said Turney, who was not at Friday's news
conference, has agreed to a "lucrative" television and tabloid
newspaper deal, for a "life- changing sum", although the money
could be paid to her family.


The main opposition Conservative Party described the deal as
"undignified" while the smaller Liberal Democrats said they were
concerned about inadvertent leaks of sensitive information.


But Andy McNab, who fought behind enemy lines with Britain's
elite Special Air Service (SAS) in the first Gulf War and is now
a best-selling author, was more relaxed.


He told the Sunday Times. "By giving permission to sell their
stories, the MoD (Ministry of Defence) has an element of control
of what comes out."


And Flight Lieutenant John Nichol, a Royal Air Force navigator
who was held by the Iraqis in the first Gulf War, told the same
newspaper he also had "no problem" with the controlled release of
the group's story.


"No-one complains if a general writes his memoirs. But there is
snobbery about a junior rank telling their story."

