

International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed
insisted on Sunday that all is well with the World Cup despite
poor crowds and complaints of no atmosphere.


Cricket's showpiece tournament, being staged for the first time
in the Caribbean, has come under fire after accusations that
locals have been priced out of the event.


But Speed said this week's easing of restrictions on bringing
musical instruments into the grounds and the creation of re-entry
tickets proved officials were prepared to listen to concerns.


And he insisted that nations such as Antigua, where the Sir
Vivian Richads Stadium has been specially built for the World
Cup, would not be left with a legacy of unviable grounds.


"There have been many positives, there have been a few negatives.
I would like to focus on the positives as much as possible," said
Speed.


Asked if the tournament lacked a Caribbean flavour, Speed
replied: "Are they here today, were they in Guyana, at the
matches I was at? Were they in Kingston at the matches I was at?


"There's Caribbean flavour at this match, just go outside," he
added during the innings break in the Super Eights game here
Sunday between Australia and England.


"It's hard to hear your questions because there's quite a lot of
noise in the background. There is a Caribbean flavour about this
match," Speed said of a crowd, roughly two-thirds full in a
ground holding 19,000, made up mainly of Australia and England
supporters.


"But there also needs to be a world sporting event flavour about
this match and we try to blend the Caribbean flavour with that."


Speed insisted that a ticket pricing policy, starting at 25 US
dollars per match, was not excessive.


"The local organising committees make recommendations about
ticket prices to Cricket World Cup which then seeks input from
the ICC," he explained.


"Our only input at that stage was to say we believe we need to
have more tickets at the bottom end of the range.


"We expect each country will know its own economy and pricing. We
do exactly the same thing if we go to England.


"We don't say to Trent Bridge, you shouldn't be charging 65
pounds a head to come to a match, you should be charging 25
pounds.


"Twenty-five dollars, we are told by people in the West Indies
who set these prices, is perfectly reasonable."


Although the World Cup lasts nearly two months, Speed said the
global governing body was in a no-win situation.


"We are criticised sometimes because there is too much cricket
and we are criticised here because some of the breaks between two
matches are too long.


"The team that wins this tournament will play 11 matches in 47
days - something like a match every four days - so there are
generally healthy breaks between matches."


And he insisted the likes of Antigua, where only 9,000 turned up
to watch hosts West Indies play world champions Australia,
wouldn't suffer financially in future years.


"If you were to go to the old ARG (Antigua Recreation Ground)
here, that's a seriously difficult ground to maintain because
it's falling apart," said Speed.


"What we have here is a legacy where cricket teams will come to
the West Indies and play in five-star venues. That doesn't happen
in many countries."

