

Prime Minister Romano Prodi on Sunday faced new criticism of his
foreign policy after the reported killing of an interpreter who
worked for a since-freed Italian hostage in the war-torn
Afghanistan.


"The execution of (La Repubblica correspondent Daniele)
Mastrogiacomo's interpreter is a terrible responsibility for the
Prodi government," said lawmaker Isabella Berolini of former
prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party.


"It casts light on the cynicism of Prodi, of (Foreign Minister
Massimo) D'Alema and company," she said.


Earlier, Prodi said he "learned with anguish the news of the
murder of the interpreter that followed that of the
(correspondent's) driver."


Speaking to ANSA, he added: "We strongly condemn this absurd
crime."


The Taliban claimed Sunday that the freelance reporter, Ajmal
Naqshbandi, was beheaded because the Afghan authorities refused
to negotiate over their demands for the release of two Taliban
militants.


Prodi's fragile centre-left coalition survived a key test on
March 27 over the highly sensitive issue of funding for Italy's
2,000-strong contingent in the NATO International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF).


Only a month earlier, a similar vote sparked a major political
crisis in which Prodi resigned before being reinstated and
surviving confidence votes in both houses of parliament.


The centre-left has only a two-vote advantage in the 315-seat
Senate, and the far left flank of the coalition opposes Italy's
foreign military operations, particularly in Afghanistan.


When the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies,
voted on the funding on March 8 -- as the hostage crisis in
Afghanistan was just beginning to unfold -- the measure passed
overwhelmingly, with 524 in favour, three opposed and 19
abstentions.


Naqshbandi was kidnapped along with Mastrogiacomo on March 4 in
southern Afghanistan.


Mastrogiacomo was released in a swap of five Taliban prisoners
that angered many Afghans and prompted the United States and
other countries to condemn negotiations with "terrorists".

