

Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday lamented "suffering" in the world's
strife-torn and poorest regions as millions across the globe
marked Easter, the holiest day in the Christian calendar.


"How many wounds, how much suffering there is in the world!
Natural calamities and human tragedies that cause innumerable
victims and enormous material destruction are not lacking," the
head of the Roman Catholic Church said in his traditional Easter
address.


"I am thinking of the scourge of hunger, of incurable diseases,
of terrorism and kidnapping of people, of the thousand faces of
violence which some people attempt to justify in the name of
religion ..." he said.


Speaking from the loggia of St Peter's Basilica to a crowd of
tens of thousands, the pope evoked the plight of victims of last
week's tsunami in the Solomon Islands and added that "nothing
positive comes from Iraq" which is "torn apart by continual
slaughter as the civil population flees."


The pope rarely speaks about the situation in Iraq, where attacks
continue despite a massive security operation since February 14
to quell daily bloodshed that has left thousands dead in the last
year alone.


He also expressed "apprehension" at "the conditions prevailing in
several regions of Africa," the world's poorest continent,
notably Darfur, Somalia and Zimbabwe.


"Zimbabwe is in the grip of a grievous crisis, and for this
reason the bishops of that country in a recent document indicated
prayer and a shared commitment for the common good as the only
way forward," he said.


Zimbabwe has been wracked by a political and economic crisis
which shows no sign of abating. In Sudan's restive Darfur region,
at least 200,000 people have died according to the United
Nations, since a conflict erupted in 2003.


The archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, the leader of the
world's Anglicans, meanwhile urged Christians to embrace
forgiveness and reconciliation, saying they could help resolve
conflicts around the world.


Recalling recent progress in the Northern Ireland peace process,
where rival Protestant and Catholic parties agreed last month for
the first time to share power in the British-run province,
Williams said: "Going forward requires us all to learn a measure
of openness to discover things about ourselves we did not know,
seeing ourselves through the eyes of another."


In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin marked Easter by returning a
long-lost icon of Our Lady of Vladimir to Russia's Orthodox
Patriarch Alexy II and pledged to return other religious relics
lost in the Soviet era.


Alexy II on his part put aside long-running differences with the
Roman Catholic Church to send Easter greetings to Pope Benedict
XVI, in a letter quoted by the Interfax news agency Saturday.


"I ... wish you blessed peace, good health and the Risen
Saviour's help in your lofty service" on the "ever-joyful holiday
of Easter," the patriarch said.


For the first time this Easter an icon -- a holy work of art
venerated by Orthodox Christians -- was placed near the altar as
Benedict XVI presided over Easter mass in the Vatican's St
Peter's Square decked out in spring flowers.


Celebrations took on different shades across the world. Solomon
Islanders prayed for victims of the tsunami while a priest urged
the people to take the task of rebuilding upon themselves.


"Now is not the time to wait and sit for supplies," Reverend John
Pihavaka told his congregation.


"Now is time for you to make work, to start and rebuild after the
tsunami," he said.


In Ukraine, Easter had political undertones with hundreds of
protesters against President Viktor Yushchenko celebrating with
traditional cakes and eggs sporting the blue-and-white colours of
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, who has defied Yushchenko's
order to dissolve parliament.


Easter was celebrated with great fervour in Poland, where more
than 90 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, prompting
the priest of a leading Warsaw church to say there could be need
to increase its capacity in future.


Iraq's dwindling Christian minority donned their Sunday best but
held quiet festivities, fearful of the bombings and abductions
terrorising Baghdad's streets.

