

Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah proposed on Sunday that a
referendum could resolve the political deadlock between the pro-
and anti-Syrian camps in Lebanon.


A solution to the crisis since the six pro-Syrian ministers
walked out of the Western-backed government in November,
paralysing the cabinet, could come through "either organising a
referendum or holding early elections", he said.


Nasrallah, whose Syrian-backed Shiite Muslim group heads the
opposition, has been pressing for the formation of a new
government of national unity while the cabinet of Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora has ruled out early polls.


In criticising Siniora, the Hezbollah leader said in a televised
speech that the way to resolve domestic problems was "not to
resort to foreign parties but to the people".


He slammed a call by 70 anti-Syrian MPs for the UN Security
Council to step in and use its power to set up an international
court to try those involved in the 2005 murder of former Lebanese
premier Rafiq Hariri.


Many Lebanese accuse Syria of killing Hariri and 22 others in a
massive car bomb in Beirut. Damascus has denied any involvement.


MP Saad Hariri, son of the murdered man, has suggested the UN
could act under Chapter Seven which would mean the Security
Council could impose its decision on Lebanon.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament.


Lebanon's pro-Syrian opposition objects to the way the Beirut
government has handled plans to create the court under UN
auspices and has so far blocked all moves to set it up.


Criticising the tribunal in its current proposed form, Nasrallah
set the court was "conceived in such a way that it would return
pre-established verdicts."


But he said the opposition would not send a counter-request to
the UN because "that will signify consecrating the division of
Lebanon and the Security Council as a point of reference in this
Lebanese constitutional question."


Hezbollah would not allow itself to be dragged into a civil war,
Nasrallah reasserted. "We will continue to use peaceful,
democratic and civil means" of protest.


He said the Siniora government was deluding itself by counting on
major regional changes to transform the situation in Lebanon,
such as a US attack on Iran, another major backer of Hezbollah.

