

Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday lamented the "continued slaughter" in
Iraq and the misery caused by war and disasters as billions of
Christians worldwide marked Easter, their holiest holiday.


"How many wounds, how much suffering there is in the world," the
head of the Roman Catholic Church said in his traditional Easter
address, evoking the scourges of hunger, incurable diseases,
terrorism and kidnapping.


"Nothing positive comes from Iraq, torn apart by continual
slaughter as the civil population flees," he said, making a rare
allusion to the country where thousands have died in the last
year despite a sweeping operation to curb daily killings.


The pope also alluded to the plight of victims of last week's
tsunami in the Solomon Islands and expressed "apprehension" at
conditions in several regions of Africa, the world's poorest
continent, notably in Sudan's Darfur, Somalia and Zimbabwe, which
has been torn by political and economic unrest.


Solomon Islanders prayed for victims of the tsunami while
millions attended Easter Mass in the Philippines, which has
Asia's largest Roman Catholic community.


Residents in predominantly Catholic East Timor prayed for peace
on Monday, when they will vote for a new president to lead the
tiny island state -- their first such election since independence
five years ago.


"With Easter, we have to refuse violence. I ask all the
candidates in the name of society to accept the result of the
election," outgoing President Xanana Gusmao said in a radio
appeal.


The archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, the leader of the
world's Anglicans, meanwhile urged his flock to embrace
forgiveness and reconciliation, saying they could help resolve
conflicts worldwide.


"Going forward requires us all to learn a measure of openness to
discover things about ourselves we did not know, seeing ourselves
through the eyes of another," he said.


One of the main Easter celebrations worldwide was held in
Jerusalem where thousands from five Christian faiths converged on
the contested Holy Sepulchre Church -- the site of Jesus's death,
burial and resurrection.


Pilgrims thronged the Baroque chapel where the five
denominations' Easter masses were held in quick succession. Many
wept as they washed a stone slab where they believe Jesus's
corpse was prepared for burial and lit candles at a spot he is
thought to have been buried.


In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin marked Easter by returning a
long-lost icon of Our Lady of Vladimir to Russia's Orthodox
Patriarch Alexy II and pledged to return other religious relics
lost during the Soviet era.


Celebrations took on different shades across the world.


In Madrid, hundreds gathered at a church that has been covered in
graffiti to protest the decision last week by the archbishop to
shut down the parish, where three priests celebrate Mass in jeans
and hand out biscuits instead of communion wafers.


In Ukraine, hundreds of protesters against President Viktor
Yushchenko celebrated with traditional cakes and eggs sporting
colours of the party of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, who has
defied Yushchenko's order to dissolve parliament.


Irish President Mary McAleese and Prime Minister Bertie Ahern led
a ceremony in central Dublin to mark the 91st anniversary of the
country's Easter Rising against British rule, a watershed in the
country's freedom struggle.


The event was held outside Dublin's bullet-marked General Post
Office, the headquarters for the week-long rebellion which ended
in failure with about 500 dead, 2,500 wounded and more than 2,000
imprisoned.


Easter was celebrated with great fervour in Poland, where more
than 90 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, prompting
the priest of a leading Warsaw church to say there could be need
to increase its capacity in future.


Iraq's dwindling Christian minority donned their Sunday best but
held quiet festivities, fearful of the bombings and abductions
terrorising Baghdad.

