

Ten days after violently awakening, a volcano on the Indian Ocean
island of Reunion continued spewing lava Sunday in what experts
called "the eruption of the century."


But the Piton de la Fournaise volcano on eastern Reunion, a
French overseas department, had lulled considerably, and
residents remained out of danger.


Tourists and residents have been able to take in the sights of
the smouldering lava and magma being tossed as high as
skyscrapers.


"We can call it the eruption of the century," said Zacharie
Duputel, a seismologist at the Volcano Observatory for the
island. "We have never observed such a phenomenon."


The eruption resulted in the collapse of the volcano's summit,
with magma at times being spewed as high as 200 metres (656 feet)
into the air.


The lava had cut off a national highway as it spurted toward the
sea at 60 kilometres (38 miles) per hour, creating clouds of gas
as it made contact with water. Sulphur dioxyde levels in the gas
have not been measured at dangerous levels.


Lava flow had been estimated at three million cubic metres (four
million cubic yards) per day.


On Sunday, lava leapt only 10 metres (33 feet) into the air,
according to the observatory. There was less activity within the
crater, though entire sections of rock continued to collapse.


Some people with memories of damage caused by previous eruptions
were not enjoying the show. Eight houses were destroyed by lava
in 1986.


About 100 residents were evacuated from a village in southeastern
Reunion on Friday, with some believing they could see lava
approaching.


They were allowed to return to their homes two hours later,
however. What was believed to be lava turned out to be a forest
fire caused by burning ashes.


About a dozen families have decided not to return to their homes
anyway, said Guy Riviere, deputy mayor for the eastern city of
Saint-Philippe and an agent for the Office of National Forests.
He said they planned to return home after the volcano's activity
reduced further.


While houses have not been affected, residents continue to hear
loud rumbling in addition to seeing the burning forested area.


"The atmosphere is gloomy in the village," Riviere said.


About 300 hectares (741 acres) of primary forest has been
destroyed over the past 10 days, and some 30 hectares of palm and
vanilla plants have burnt. Special timber used for cabinet-making
that cannot be found elsewhere on the island was heavily damaged.

