

Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore believes the shock World Cup
victory over top- ranked South Africa has come at the right time
for his team.


"That's another very significant win in the progress of
Bangladesh cricket," said Whatmore, whose side pulled off one of
the major upsets in the tournament with a 67-run win over Graeme
Smith's South Africans here on Saturday.


This was not the first time Bangladesh had turned the form-book
upside down in the ongoing event, having whipped India in a group
match in Trinidad last month.


"It was a very significant victory (against South Africa). We did
well to make the Super Eights," said Whatmore, whose team had
lost to defending champions Australia and New Zealand in the
first two matches.


"After the previous two matches where we were beaten pretty
badly, it is great to turn it around and win against a team which
is currently ranked number one in the world.


"They are a very good side, but I felt the conditions suited us a
lot more than the conditions at the other venues we have had.
Once we saw that, we really made merry and played extremely good
cricket to win the game."


Whatmore, who was the coach of Sri Lanka's 1996 World Cup-winning
squad in the sub-continent, said the Bangladeshi team had changed
since he took over four years ago.


Asked how important the win was to him as coach, Whatmore said:
"I am not sure if we should be talking about me. It's the team
that has to go out and do all the hard work.


"They have to take those very difficult catches and stop a hard-
hit ball, get bruises, dive and all that sort of stuff.


"It gives me a tremendous satisfaction to see a group of players
who have come a long way since I joined in 2003. The team has
changed and it will continue to change. It will always evolve.
That's how I look at it."


Whatmore said his team had a chance to advance in the tournament
if the conditions were similar to those they encountered at the
Providence Stadium here.


"If we have conditions like these, I would be very happy. I don't
know what the conditions are. I have a suspicion that the
Barbados wicket will have a lot more grass than this," he said.


"We have to wait and see, but we have given ourselves a very
reasonable chance."


Bangladesh, who picked up their first two points and moved off
the foot of the Super Eights table with the win against South
Africa, will now meet the West Indies, England and debutants
Ireland in their remaining matches.


Whatmore said his spinners were instrumental in keeping the
pressure on South Africa, who were dismissed for 184 chasing a
252-run target on a slow pitch.


Left-arm spinners Abdur Razzak, Mohammad Rafique and Saqibul
Hasan shared six wickets and never allowed the batsmen to take
liberties during their tight spells.


"We played three left-arm spinners because that is our best
combination. It's just like if you got your best three batsmen
are all left-handers, you don't change that," said Whatmore.


"You play what you think is your best combination. The conditions
gave us the advantage because we had the spinners and we had the
opportunity to bowl last on it."


Whatmore was all praise for middle-order batsman Mohammad
Ashraful, who cracked an 83-ball 87 to help his side set a
challenging target. He was also named man of the match.


"He has just shown what he is capable of. He hasn't always had
the time to bat. He has been batting at number six. He has to
learn a little about placing a value on his wicket," said
Whatmore.


"He played straight and he was very innovative at the end. But
generally, we have seen the value of Ashraful when he plays
straight."

