

Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday lamented "suffering" in the world's
strife-torn and poorest regions as millions across the globe
marked Easter, the holiest day in the Christian calendar.


"How many wounds, how much suffering there is in the world!
Natural calamities and human tragedies that cause innumerable
victims and enormous material destruction are not lacking," the
head of the Roman Catholic Church said in his traditional Easter
address.


"I am thinking of the scourge of hunger, of incurable diseases,
of terrorism and kidnapping of people, of the thousand faces of
violence which some people attempt to justify in the name of
religion ..." he said.


Speaking from the loggia of St Peter's Basilica to a crowd of
tens of thousands, the pope evoked the plight of victims of last
week's tsunami in the Solomon Islands as well as the ongoing
carnage in Iraq.


He said "nothing positive comes from Iraq" which is "torn apart
by continual slaughter as the civil population flees."


The pope rarely speaks about Iraq, where bloodshed continues
despite a massive security operation since February 14 to quell
daily violence that has killed thousands in the past year alone.


He also expressed "apprehension" at "the conditions prevailing in
several regions of Africa," the world's poorest continent,
notably Darfur, Somalia and Zimbabwe.


The archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, the leader of the
world's Anglicans, urged Christians to embrace forgiveness and
reconciliation, saying they could help resolve conflicts around
the world.


Recalling recent progress in the Northern Ireland peace process,
where rival Protestant and Catholic parties agreed last month for
the first time to share power in the British-run province,
Williams said: "Going forward requires us all to learn a measure
of openness to discover things about ourselves we did not know,
seeing ourselves through the eyes of another."


In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin marked Easter by returning a
long-lost icon of Our Lady of Vladimir to Russia's Orthodox
Patriarch Alexy II, and pledged to return other religious relics
lost in the Soviet era.


Alexy II on his part put aside long-running differences with the
Roman Catholic Church to send Easter greetings to Pope Benedict
XVI, in a letter quoted by the Interfax news agency Saturday.


"I ... wish you blessed peace, good health and the Risen
Saviour's help in your lofty service" on the "ever-joyful holiday
of Easter," he said.


For the first time an icon -- a holy work of art venerated by
Orthodox Christians -- was placed near the altar as Benedict XVI
presided over Easter mass in the Vatican's St Peter's Square.


Celebrations took different forms across the world.


Solomon Islanders prayed for victims of the tsunami while a
priest urged the people to take up the task of rebuilding.


"Now is not the time to wait and sit for supplies. Now is time
for you to make work, to start and rebuild after the tsunami,"
Reverend John Pihavaka told his congregation.


Iraq's dwindling Christian minority donned their Sunday best but
held quiet festivities, fearful of the bombings and abductions
terrorising Baghdad's streets.


In Jerusalem, thousands of worshippers from five Christian faiths
celebrated Easter at the traditional site of Jesus's death,
burial and resurrection -- the city's contested Holy Sepulchre
Church.


Millions of worshippers crammed into churches in Greece around
midnight Saturday to hear priests announce that "Christ is
risen." Easter celebrations are the biggest religious festival in
Greece, where 97 percent of the population is Orthodox.


In Ukraine, Easter had political undertones with hundreds of
protesters against President Viktor Yushchenko celebrating with
traditional cakes and eggs sporting the blue-and-white colours of
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, who has defied Yushchenko's
order to dissolve parliament.


There were demonstrations in Germany, with about 12,000 gathering
in the eastern city of Fretzdorf for a traditional pacifist
Easter march. This year's target was government plans for a
military bombing range north of Berlin.


More than 1,000 people also marched about 50 kilometres (31
miles) between Duisburg and Dortmund to protest against the
participation of German troops in military missions abroad.


Easter was celebrated with great fervour in Poland, where more
than 90 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, prompting
one priest to remark that his church might need to be enlarged
for the growing numbers of worshippers.


US President George W. Bush marked Easter Sunday by attending
church at a Texas military base and said he had prayed for peace
and for the safety of US troops.

