

A powerful blast killed at least one person in the northeastern
city of Guwahati on Sunday just as Indian Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh arrived here to attend a function, police said.


Some 14 others were injured in the explosion that occurred at a
crowded railway crossing in Guwahati, the largest city in the
insurgency-racked Assam state, a police spokesman said.


He said the blast struck 10 kilometres (six miles) away from a
site where Singh laid the foundation of a new bridge.


Senior police officer Rajan Singh blamed the attack on the
region's outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA)
guerrilla group, which has been campaigning for decades for
greater autonomy in Assam state.


Other police officers told the Press Trust of India two rebels
transporting a bomb on a motorcycle lost balance and fell,
triggering off the explosives which killed the rider and
seriously injuring the pillion rider.


Earlier, police officer Singh had said a powerful bomb concealed
in a parked motorcycle went off at the rail crossing in Guwahati
city.


Three of the roadside victims were taken to hospital in a
critical condition, a state government medical department
spokesman said.


After the attack, premier Singh told supporters at the multi-
billion dollar bridge project that development was the key to end
militancy in Assam, where millions of graduates are unemployed.


"The state has to also improve a great deal and it needs to have
more irrigation and it needs to achieve greater productivity,"
Singh said, adding mineral-rich Assam required a larger
industrial hub.


State officials said Sunday's bomb attack appeared to be the
ULFA's expression of protest at the prime minister's visit to
Assam, which borders Bangladesh and Bhutan.


"Probably the ULFA wanted to demonstrate its strength by carrying
out the blast during the prime minister's visit," an intelligence
official said on condition of anonymity.


The ULFA has been fighting for an independent Assamese homeland
since 1979.


The rebels last week rejected the Assam government's offer for
unconditional talks and warned of stepped-up violence, including
using suicide bombers to attack selected targets.


Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi had offered unconditional peace
talks with the ULFA, aimed at ending close to three decades of
insurgency in the region.


The ULFA has said direct talks could be possible only if New
Delhi agrees to discuss their core demand of sovereignty or
independence, and release five of their jailed leaders.


During January, suspected ULFA rebels killed 73 people, 61 of
them Hindi- speaking migrant workers in Assam.


At least 10,000 people have died in fighting between government
forces and separatists in Assam in the past two decades.

