

Sevilla squandered the chance to take over the lead of the
Spanish first division when they were held to a 0-0 draw at home
by Racing Santander on Sunday.


Barcelona had gifted Sevilla a great opportunity to replace them
as the league leaders when Diego Milito scored the game-winning
goal in a 1-0 win for Real Zaragoza on Saturday.


It means Barcelona remain on course for their third successive La
Liga crown.


The Catalan club have 56 points from 29 games, and nine games
remaining in one of the closest title races of recent years, with
Sevilla having now reduced their advantage to one point.


Sevilla's Brazilian international right back Daniel Alves hit the
crossbar after 32 minutes while Duda and Alexandr Kerzhakov also
spurned chances to grab a late winner for the hosts.


The Spanish league's leading scorer Fredi Kanoute, although the
French-born Malian striker has now been joined at the top of the
rankings by Milito with 19 goals, started on the bench for the
second successive game.


Juande Ramos intended to rest Kanoute ahead of their UEFA Cup
quarter-final second leg match at Tottenham Hotspur on Thursday
but the Sevilla coach sent him on after 68 minutes in an
ultimately fruitless bid to break the deadlock.


Recreativo Huelva can continue to dream about playing in Europe
for the first time next season after their 4-2 win over
relegation-threatened Celta Vigo.


The host's took the lead thanks to a Jesus Vazquez penalty on 37
minutes after Ikechuckwu Uche had been pushed to the ground in
the box by Pablo Contreras.


Florent Sinama Pongolle initially sent his shot into the clouds
but the referee told Recreativo to take the penalty again after
Celta defenders were too eager, and Vazquez stood up to replace
the nervous Frenchman.


Nene equalised for Celta 16 minutes from the end, with another
penalty after Rafael Barber had brought down Nestor Canobbio,
before a tumultuous last five minutes which saw four goals.


Romanian striker Laurentino Rosu pounced on Celta's wobbly
defence to score twice in little more than two minutes to put
Recreativo seemingly in control.


Nene then got one back for Celta in the dying seconds of normal
time before Recreativo midfielder Cheli Gonzalez secured three
points in injury time with his first league goal this season.


Bottom club Gimnastic Tarragona and Real Sociedad are
increasingly likely to be relegated at the end of the season
after they suffered 1-0 losses away from home.


Deportivo La Coruna's Iago Iglesias got the only goal of their
game to beat Gimnastic, his free kick from just outside the area
finding the net after 58 minutes.


Espanyol's Ferran Corominas inflicted the damage on Real
Sociedad, scoring with his right foot after a pass from Jonatas
Domingos on 57 minutes.


The two bottom clubs are now eight points away from climbing out
of the relegation zone after Levante drew 1-1 with fellow
struggler Real Betis.


Levante opened the scoring after 33 minutes when Salva Ballesta
nodded on a Ze Maria corner and the ball fell to the feet of
Inaki Descarga.


The 30-year-old defender then had no trouble getting his first
goal in the top flight of Spanish football from a yard out.


However, Levante had to settle for just a point after Betis'
Brazilian striker Robert celebrated signing a new four year
contract on Thursday with an equaliser 11 minutes from the
whistle.


Real Madrid are four points behind Sevilla in third place and
face Osasuna later on Sunday.


Osasuna will also be without top scorer Roberto Soldado who is on
loan from Madrid and cannot play against his old club because of
a clause in the deal.


Former England captain David Beckham will miss his fourth
straight league game for Real Madrid following a knee injury last
month but Roberto Carlos and Jose Antonio Reyes have recovered
from their recent injuries.

