

Hong Kong's political leader Donald Tsang flew to Beijing Sunday
to be officially inaugurated by China's top leaders for a second
term as the southern city's chief executive.


Tsang will be handed the so-called "instrument of appointment" by
China's President Hu Jintao, confirming his post after he won a
re-selection vote last month.


The chief executive told reporters when he arrived at Beijing
airport that he was moved by the prospect of serving for a second
term.


"I am very grateful to the central government and Hong Kong
people and members of the Election Committee in giving me this
opportunity to serve Hong Kong for another five years," he said
on local RTHK radio news.


Hong Kong, a former British colony, was returned to China in
1997.


The freewheeling capitalist city exists as a largely autonomous
territory within the authoritarian Chinese state under a "one
country, two systems" arrangement that allows it political
freedoms not enjoyed anywhere else in China.


The territory's leaders are not elected by the people but by a
committee of 800 elites who are mostly loyal to the city's
communist rulers in China.


Tsang was first appointed chief executive in 2005 when he took
over the truncated second term of the wealthy southern Chinese
territory's first post- colonial leader Tung Chee-hwa, who
resigned early due to poor health.


He beat off pro-democracy challenger Alan Leong in the March vote
in what was the first contested leadership race since 1997.


Although Tsang, a devout Catholic, was not elected by the people
of Hong Kong, he retains huge public support following his
40-years as a civil servant, including stints as financial
secretary and deputy leader.


He will meet Chinese premier Wen Jiabao Monday morning at
Beijing's Great Hall of the People and meet Hu and other national
leaders later in the afternoon.


"I hope to exchange views with them on my (election) manifesto
... making sure we develop a further win-win situation for Hong
Kong in the coming five years," Tsang said.


He is expected to give a brief press conference later in the day
and return to Hong Kong on Tuesday.


Tsang's inauguration will effectively kick off the run up to the
city's tenth anniversary celebrations of its return to Chinese
rule on July 1.


In his re-selection campaign Tsang promised to find a solution to
a gnawing feud that has dogged the city throughout those years --
when to transform the city into a democracy.


Such a move is enshrined in the Basic Law constitution that came
into force in 1997, but the government -- backed by China -- has
been accused by pro-democrats of dragging its feet on the issue.


Tsang has promised to have a roadmap outlining a process of
democratisation by the middle of the year.


However, government thinking on the matter leaked to the media
suggests there will be no substantial change before the next
chief executive is chosen in 2012, defying a key demand of the
city's vocal democracy movement.

