

Taliban militants killed Sunday an Afghan reporter kidnapped last
month with an Italian journalist, after the government refused to
negotiate his release, a militant spokesman said.


"We killed Ajmal (Naqshbandi) today at 1505 (1135 GMT) because
the government did not respond to our demands, said Shohaabuddin
Atal, spokesman for top Taliban military commander Mullah
Dadullah.


"They (the government) did not contact us," he told AFP.


His claims could be verified independently.


The Taliban are waging a deadly insurgency that includes suicide
attacks and kidnappings of foreign journalists and aid workers,
and their local colleagues, after being ousted from power five
years ago by US-led troops.


Naqshbandi was captured in southern Helmand province on March 4
with Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was freed
around two weeks later in a controversial exchange for five
Taliban prisoners.


Their Afghan driver was beheaded.


The Taliban renewed threats earlier Sunday to also kill
Naqshbandi unless the government agreed to release more jailed
insurgents.


However President Hamid Karzai said this week no more hostage
deals with Taliban would be made, saying the one he made to free
Mastrogiacomo was an "extraordinary" situation.


"It was an extraordinary situation and won't be repeated again,"
Karzai told a press conference in Kabul on Friday.


"No more deals with no one and with no other country."


Karzai said the deal to free the Italian journalist was because
the Italian government -- which has 1,800 troops in Afghanistan
-- could have collapsed.


On Sunday, Atal did not give details of the killing of Naqshbandi
but said his body was dumped in an area in Helmand.


Taliban are also holding two French nationals and three Afghan
colleagues after abducting them on Tuesday in the southwestern
province of Nimroz.


A search of the area for the five, all wearing traditional Afghan
clothes when they disappeared, has failed to find them.


The province's governor and police chief have said they were
likely to have been moved to neighbouring Helmand.


Another Taliban spokesman told AFP earlier Sunday that they would
decide the fate of the French nationals once Naqshbandi's case
was over.


The rebels have not yet made any demand in return for the release
of the French aid workers from the Terre d'Enfance (A World for
Our Children).


The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force, which has
tens of thousands of troops in Afghanistan, is attempting to
restore security and stability in the war-ravaged country.


The Taliban had its most deadliest year in 2006 with hundreds of
people killed, as part of its insurgency, mostly militants but
also local and foreign soldiers and civilians.


The Taliban have pledged more suicide bombings this year after
carrying out nearly 150 such attacks across Afghanistan last
year.

