

US and Iraqi military officials on Sunday said execution-style
killings in Baghdad have fallen since a security crackdown was
launched in the Iraqi capital.


US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell said such
killings were down 60 percent between "the last week of March and
first (week of) April" compared to the similar period the month
before.


Overall, such killings fell by 26 percent in March compared to
February, a figure he mentioned last week.


"It is not a trend but we continue to see that it has stayed
lower. We are encouraged by the positive sign," Caldwell said,
but did not offer any actual figures to substantiate his
analysis.


Iraqi Brigadier General Qassim Atta Mussawi, spokesman for
Operation Fardh al- Qanoon (Imposing Law) launched on February
14, also insisted that fewer bodies of unidentified men were now
being found on the streets of the capital.


"Such bodies do not exceed eight on a daily basis. And that is
not a large number," said Mussawi at a joint news conference with
Caldwell.


Before the start of the crackdown, dozens of bodies of handcuffed
and blindfolded men riddled with bullets were found everyday on
Baghdad's streets.


The US military has previously blamed such execution-style
killings on Shiite militias and largely on the Mahdi Army, the
militia loyal to anti-American cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


Although these killings have shown a downward trend, high-profile
car bombs continue to plague the lives of civilians and remain a
headache for security forces in Baghdad.


Insurgents have also stepped up attacks outside the capital since
the start of the crackdown, with outlying regions such as Diyala
witnessing a significant rise in violence.


The military officials also disputed reports that militiamen,
believed to have melted away since the crackdown began, were
returning to their strongholds in the capital.


"We have not seen it... we do not know, possibly because the
dynamics in Baghdad have changed," Caldwell said, referring to
increased number of troops present in the capital.


Mussawi said Fardh al-Qanoon was still not operational in all
areas of Baghdad and "there were some breeding grounds of
terrorists in some areas."


Caldwell added the entire military deployment earmarked to carry
out the crackdown would be in place by June 1.


Once the troop deployment is complete, about 90,000 US and Iraqi
soldiers will be patrolling the streets of Baghdad to implement
the crackdown.

