

The US government on Sunday faced new calls to reach out to Syria
as leading politicians praised a controversial visit to Damascus
by a top Democratic legislator.


Republican Senator Arlen Specter said that Nancy Pelosi, the
Democratic Speaker of the House of Representatives, was right to
travel to Syria, where she met with President Bashar al-Assad.


President George W. Bush however said that Pelosi's trip last
week undermined US-led efforts to isolate Assad, and Vice
President Dick Cheney said it rewarded Assad's alleged backing
for violent extremists.


"I believe in the maxim of 'hold your friends close and your
enemies closer,'" said Specter, speaking on CNN. "Look, Assad is
not a Boy Scout, but we have to deal with him."


Specter said he believed "that Assad can be negotiated with ...
Opening discussions with Syria are very, very important."


Washington slapped economic sanctions on Syria in 2004 for its
alleged ties to terrorism and withdrew its ambassador from
Damascus after the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese prime
minister Rafiq Hariri. Syria has been implicated in the killing.


US officials have also accused Syria of providing a base for
fighters attacking US-led forces in Iraq, and of supporting
Palestinian militants and the Hezbollah group in Lebanon, which
has fired rockets into Israel.


Madeleine Albright, secretary of state under Democratic president
Bill Clinton, also favored talks with Damascus.


The United States "should be talking to people that we don't
like," she said.


"It is much more important, frankly, than talking to just people
who agree with us. And so I think she had every right to go,"
said Albright, also speaking on CNN.


However Joseph Lieberman, an independent Senator who supports the
Democrats on virtually all issues except Iraq, was unhappy with
the Pelosi trip.


"I believe her visit to Syria was a mistake, that it was bad for
the United States of America and good for the Syrians," he told
CNN. "Syria is a state sponsor of terrorism."


"The (US) administration has been trying in many ways ... to get
Assad to change his behavior and he has not," Lieberman said.
"When Nancy Pelosi goes there, she sends a message of disunity.
She legitimizes the Syrian government."


Specter himself has made several trips to Syria, including one in
December in which he met with Assad. "I would rather (Secretary
of State) Condoleezza Rice did it, but if not, it's up to Speaker
Pelosi ... and others," he said.

