

The battle of Vimy Ridge, a World War I battle whose 90th
anniversary is being marked Monday, was a costly victory for
Canada but one that helped shape the former British colony's
national identity.


At 5:30 am on April 9, 1917, almost 100,000 Canadian soldiers
charged the ridge, which the German army had fortified heavily
with trenches, barbed wire, artillery and machine-gun nests.


A total of 3,598 Canadian troops were killed and 7,004 were
wounded over four days of fighting as they slowly took control of
the escarpment, which lies near the town of Arras in northern
France.


The victory, which Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
described as a "coming of age" for his country, was a strategic
breakthrough that had eluded the British and French for two
years.


The battle also marked the first time all four divisions of the
Canadian Army had gone into battle together.


The victory triggered Canadian pride in the courage of its
soldiers and helped define a sense of nationhood.


"When you read soldiers' diaries and letters, it's there, both in
print and between the lines ... it was a Canadian victory,"
historian Ted Barris of Centennial College in Toronto told AFP.


"They were told they'd be fighting for King and (the British)
Empire, but they were fighting for Canada, too."


Previously, Canadian soldiers were "essentially farmed out" to
Allied armies, he said. Suddenly, they found themselves "standing
together in the cold mud" and fighting side by side with Canadian
patches on their sleeves.


"There was an instant connection," he said. "It was very much a
band of brothers."


This pride was bolstered by a series of Canadian innovations that
"turned military strategy on its head", Barris noted.


For example, Canadians used aerial reconnaissance to triangulate
enemy positions, which allowed them to knock out 82 percent of
German batteries before the onslaught.


And instead of informing only officers of battle plans, every
soldier was briefed on strategy and tactics -- and so could fill
any role in case a comrade fell in battle.


More than 600,000 Canadians fought in World War I (1914-1918) and
some 66,000 died. Only two Canadian veterans of the conflict are
still alive.


The Canadian National Vimy Memorial with its twin pylons towering
30 meters (98 feet) above a sprawling stone platform represents
the solidarity of France and Canada, adorned with carved statues
symbolizing peace, sacrifice and mourning.


It was not dedicated to military conquest and glory but recalled
the legions who sacrificed their lives -- a sentiment not
previously expressed in war memorials.

