

Italy's reacquaintance with victory in the Tour of Flanders, won
by Alessandro Ballan here Sunday, could be set for a long run.


That seemed to be the opinion of Lampre team manager Guido
Bontempi, who was delighted to see Ballan end a five-year wait
for an Italian victory on the Belgians' favourite race.


And Bontempi believes Ballan has plenty more one-day classic wins
to come.


After 259km of tactical racing over the tight and winding cobbled
roads Ballan outfoxed Belgium's Leif Hoste with a winning sprint
to snatch a deserved victory at the finish line.


It was the biggest win of his career and comes a week ahead of
another prestigious one-day classic, Paris-Roubaix, held next
Sunday and where Ballan finished third in 2006.


Lampre found themselves in a favourable position Sunday, with
Ballan tucked in the main group of contenders which was closing
the gap on a small leading group of riders at the front in the
final 50km.


Among them was Lampre's Enrico Franzoi. His presence meant Lampre
could excuse themselves from doing any of the chasing work in the
peloton.


That allowed them to save precious energy, and when it came to
the crunch at the Grammont, the last of 18 small and often
cobbled ascents in the race, 16km from the finish, Ballan upped
the tempo.


Hoste went with the Italian and after the pair forged ahead it
was Ballan who prevailed with a cunning, and winning sprint.
Bontempi believes Ballan's first major win could be prophetic.


"Ballan can become the race leader, or a team-mate whenever you
ask him to ride for another leader," said Bontempi. "He's easy
going, and he's only 27. He's got another 10 years in front of
him."


Ballan showed his pre-race form by winning the Three Days of La
Panne race in Belgium on Thursday. Ahead of next week's Roubaix
challenge, he admits his morale is sky-high.


"It's an amazing victory for me, and I want to dedicate it to all
my family. In fact, I'm so happy I want to dedicate it to
everyone I know," he said. "I've won the race (Flanders) I really
wanted to win. Now I can approach next week a lot more calmly."


Hoste, who thus picked up his third runner-up place having also
been beaten by German-born Swiss rider Steffen Wesemann in 2004
and Tom Boonen in 2006, said Ballan's gear ratio's had proved
decisive in the final dash for the line.


"I want to thank my whole team for the faith they had in me,"
said the Belgian, who moved to Predictor-Lotto from Discovery
Channel in the closed season. "The sprint? It came down to
gearing."


Another Italian sprinter, Luca Paolini of Liquigas, deserved
reward for his persistence in finishing third having dug deep to
rejoin the peloton after a second crash put a spanner in his
victory hopes.


"When I crashed for the second time I lost a lot of time and
almost pulled out," said Paolini.


"In the end I'm happy with my third place finish. But it was more
my head than my legs that got me there. Now I know that I can win
this race. It's one of my favourites."


Ballan's win means he succeeds Andrea Tafi as the first Italian
to win at Flanders in five years. Tafi won in 2002, a year after
his compatriot Gianluca Bortolami.


With 64 Belgian wins in 91 editions, the hosts have the upper
hand. However another Italian, Fiorenzo Magni, is still the only
rider to win the race three times consecutively, between 1949 and
1951.

