

Defending Super 14 champions the Canterbury Crusaders showed they
are still the team to beat as they demolished the Perth-based
Western Force 53-0 in the latest round of the competition.


The Crusaders finished the weekend in second spot on the ladder,
four points behind the Auckland Blues and two ahead of the Natal-
based Coastal Sharks.


The ACT Brumbies were in fourth place following a Stephen
Larkham-inspired 36-10 win over the New South Wales Waratahs.


The All Black-laden Crusaders were simply devastating against the
Force.


Only two points separated the second-placed Crusaders from the
third-placed Force going into the match but the eight-try blitz
from the home side exposed a massive gulf.


The Crusaders forwards stole the limelight from their vaunted
backline, scoring seven of the eight tries between them.


Lock Ross Filipo led the way with three tries, with reserve
forward Kieran Reid bagging two and flanker Richie McCaw and No.
8 Mose Tuiali'i one each.


"That's the way you want to play rugby, you want to use (the
ball)," skipper McCaw said.


"You could see at the end the guys wanted the game to carry on,
they were having a lot of fun and that's what you play for."


The spectacle was marred when the Force's replacement hooker
Brendan Cannon crumpled to the ground in a collapsed scrum in the
69th minute and had to be stretchered from the field.


He was cleared of serious injury and rejoined his teammates
Sunday.


The Auckland Blues got the weekend away to a flying start when
they beat the Central Cheetahs 26-8 in Auckland with flashes of
backline brilliance ensuring their position at the top of the
table.


Their three try to one victory gave the Blues eight wins from
nine matches as they bury their reputation of recent seasons as a
team with talent to burn but suffering from poor execution.


The Coastal Sharks stormed back into third place when they
thrashed the Queensland Reds 59-16 in Brisbane on Saturday.


The Sharks scored nine tries to one to record their biggest ever
win in Super rugby, while for the bottom of the table Reds it was
their second greatest loss since the tournament began a decade
ago.


After a relatively close first half, the Sharks cut loose in the
second period with their brand of unorthodox attacking play
proving too much for the tiring Reds to handle.


After successive losses to the ACT Brumbies and the Western
Force, Sharks captain John Smit said the Sharks had tried to
concentrate on playing the same kind of rugby that saw them go
the first six weeks of the tournament undefeated.


"We certainly didn't play the right kind of rugby over the last
two weekends but today we got a little bit closer to where our
strengths lie," Smit said.


The ACT Brumbies proved far too good for the second from bottom
Waratahs.


Larkham and winger Mark Gerrard scored two tries each and flanker
Jone Tawake grabbed another as the Brumbies notched a bonus point
for scoring four tries for the first time this season.


Larkham was outstanding, but the Brumbies were also well served
by Wallaby skipper George Gregan and fullback Julien Huxley, who
was involved in most of the ACT's attacking moves.


The Waikato Chiefs kept their slim semi-final hopes alive with a
38-34 win over the Otago Highlanders in a 10-try scoring bonanza
in the resort town of Queenstown on Saturday.


The rare daylight match recalled the high-scoring early days of
the Super competition with each side running in five tries.


The unerring boot of Chiefs' flyhalf Stephen Donald made the
difference after he succeeded with all five conversion attempts.


The Western Stormers ran in three tries to one to run out
convincing and fully- deserved 30-8 winners over the Lions in
Cape Town on Saturday.


With only three games remaining the Lions are now virtually out
of the running to reach the last four for a place in the semi-
finals.


They occupy ninth place in the points table, while the Stormers
moved up to 11th thanks to their fourth victory of the season.

