

The armed Basque separatist group ETA Sunday declared a renewed
commitment to peace but warned that it would not abandon its
armed struggle for Basque independence in northern Spain "under
current conditions".


In a lengthy interview published Sunday in the Basque newspaper
Gara, ETA said it could envision a "scenario with no more
violence" if "attacks" by the Spanish Socialist government
against the Basque country cease.


The separatist group also said it stood by its ceasefire
declaration of March 24 last year, even though that was
interrupted in December with a car bomb attack at Madrid's
airport that left two people dead.


At the same ETA declared that it would not give up its arms
"under the current conditions."


"The reasons for resorting to an armed fight still exist," ETA
told the paper which is the usual vehicle for the group's
declarations.


In recent weeks, a sweep by Spanish police dismantled an ETA
commando unit, which had carried out 24 attacks between 2004 and
2006, and led to the arrests of at least nine suspected ETA
members.


The separatist group did not specifically mention in the Gara
interview the anti-ETA operation, though it called for an end to
"police repression", which in ETA's view is an obstacle to
advancing the peace process.


A spokeswoman for Spain's Socialist government when contacted by
AFP Sunday refused to comment on the ETA report, reiterating
Madrid's stand that it expects only one thing from ETA: "a
definitive renunciation of violence."


ETA declared that the peace remains blocked and its attack on
December 30 was "a response to the permanent attacks of the
Spanish government", it said.


"Our commitment is to a process which leads to a real democratic
solution to the conflict," ETA said in its five-page statement in
Gara, accompanied with photographs of two people wearing hoods
and a Basque beret with a tape recorder at their side.


ETA has waged a 38-year-old campaign for an independent Basque
homeland which has claimed more than 800 lives.


The Spanish government stopped the peace process with ETA after
the car bombing at Madrid's airport.


Both the European Union and the US State Department consider ETA
to be a terrorist organisation.

