

Israel and the Palestinians inched closer to a prisoner exchange
deal for a soldier held by Gaza militants on Sunday as Israel
confirmed it had received a list of people the Palestinians want
freed.


As expected, the list included such leading jailed militants as
Marwan Barghuti and Ahmed Saadat, both members of the Palestinian
parliament.


In the first tangible sign of progress, Egyptian mediators handed
officials in Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's office a list
of several hundred prisoners, an Israeli official told AFP.


"We have received a list of several hundreds of Palestinians,
including many with blood on their hands, who the Palestinians
want to have" in exchange for Corporal Gilad Shalit, the official
said.


Israel refers to prisoners with "blood on their hands" as anyone
who has carried out or helped plan the killing of Israelis, and
has said it would not release such detainees.


Azzam al-Ahmed, the Palestinian deputy prime minister, also said
there was forward movement.


"There is progress," Ahmed told AFP, after what he described as
long talks within the Palestinian government about releasing the
captured soldier.


Shalit was taken last June 25 by Palestinian militants, including
members of the armed wing of the ruling Islamist Hamas movement,
who raided an army outpost on the border with the Gaza Strip.


"We have moved another step forward, but there is still a lot of
time before we see Shalit," the Israeli official cautioned,
speaking on condition of anonymity.


Olmert will convene his security cabinet later this week to set
Israel's criteria for clearing prisoners for release, Welfare
Minister Isaac Herzog said.


He told AFP that Israel should "reevaluate and reformulate
criteria for the release of Palestinian prisoners, including
those for prisoners with blood on their hands."


Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin said only that "this is an
extremely sensitive issue which is at the top of our priorities."


The father of the captured soldier, Noam Shalit, was not ready to
comment on the apparent progress, but said: "We are waiting
patiently for the release of Gilad."


Palestinian information minister Mustafa al-Barghuti had
announced the handover of the list, saying "the ball is now in
the Israeli camp."


A source close to the Palestinian government told AFP the list
contained the names of 450 prisoners, and the information
minister confirmed on Sunday that both Barghuti and Saadat were
among them.


"I cannot give you the exact numbers, but I can tell you they
(the lists) include the names of the leaders," he told AFP.


Barghuti, the West Bank leader of president Mahmud Abbas's
secular Fatah movement who is widely revered by Palestinians as
the mastermind of their second uprising or intifada, is serving
five life sentences for planning attacks against Israelis.


Saadat, leader of the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, is accused by Israel of masterminding the 2001
assassination in occupied east Jerusalem of far-right tourism
minister Rehavam Zeevi.


As long ago as last September, Abbas made clear that he would
insist on both men's release as part of any exchange.


"When discussions take place on... the people we want freed,
among them will be Barghuti and Saadat," he told Egyptian
television.


On Friday, the Palestinian president said he was confident Gaza
militants would soon release the Israeli soldier and a BBC
journalist, Alan Johnston, who was snatched at gunpoint on March
12.


Shalit's capture sparked a deadly Israeli air and ground
offensive against the Gaza Strip that killed several hundred
Palestinians before a November ceasefire came into force.

