

Rookies Benfica Luanda of Angola maintained their impressive
African Confederation Cup run with a 3-0 victory against Astres
Douala of Cameroon Sunday.


Competing in a continental competition for the first time,
Benfica have moved within sight of the playoffs for group berths
by scoring 14 goals in  five qualifiers.


Serge was the hat-trick hero of the third round, first leg clash
in the Angolan capital, converting a late first half penalty and
adding two more  goals after half-time.


Desperate to contain the livewire Angolans, Astres often resorted
to foul play and the failure to score an away goal virtually
seals their fate ahead   of the return match in the Atlantic port
of Douala this month.


It was a disappointing day for Cameroon with Union Douala held
1-1 at home by Kwara United of Nigeria and their prospects of
progressing appear equally bleak.


Dolphin, the other Nigerian challengers for the 400,000-dollar
first prize in the second-tier African club competition modelled
on the European UEFA Cup, edged Moroccan visitors Hassania Agadir
1-0 in Calabar.


Kola Anubi settled the match with a 20th-minute goal leaving 2005
runners-up Dolphin with a difficult mission in north-west Africa
under new technical advisor and assistant national coach Austin
Eguavoen.


Former African champions Ismailia of Egypt needed a stoppage time
goal from Omar Gamal to pip Zambian army club Green Buffaloes 2-1
in the ancient Mediterranean city of Alexandria.


Morgan Hanjena upset the hosts, guided by France-born former
Guinea coach Patrice Neveu, with an early second half goal and
Abdullah al-Said levelled 11 minutes from full-time to create a
thrilling climax.


Issia Wazi of Ivory Coast shook off woeful domestic form to edge
2006 African Champions League runners-up Club Sportif Sfaxien of
Tunisia 1-0 in Abidjan courtesy of a Wilfried Bony penalty on the
stroke of half-time.


International unknown Bony is the leading scorer in the
competition with six goals after striking three times in Abidjan
and twice in Kinshasa last month against Bukavu Dawa of the
Democratic Republic of Congo.


Etoile Filante of Burkina Faso ended the unbeaten run of Mwana
Africa of Zimbabwe with a 2-0 win in Ouagadougou while ASO Chlef
of Algeria scored midway through the opening half to take a 1-0
home lead over Al-Merreikh of Sudan.


African newcomers ATRACO of Rwanda and Gaouafel Gafsa of Tunisia
shared four goals in a Kigali thriller and the result tilts the
odds firmly toward a north African success.


The eight survivors face the African Champions League third round
losers in two- leg ties next month with the winners being split
into two groups from which the table toppers qualify for the
final.


Hearts of Oak of Ghana, FAR Rabat of Morocco and Etoile Sahel of
Tunisia won previous editions of a competition that replaced the
African Cup Winners Cup and CAF Cup competitions three years ago.

