

Families of British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and
military figures criticised the government on Sunday for allowing
the 15 mariners held for 13 days by Iran to sell their stories.


But the defence ministry defended the highly unusual decision to
relax its ban on service personnel striking financial deals with
media organisations, saying there were "exceptional
circumstances".


Newspapers reports Sunday suggested the group could make up to
250,000 pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between them,
with the only woman in the group standing to net 150,000 pounds.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, a 26-year-old mother-of-one who
became the public face of the crisis, has already signed a
lucrative television and tabloid newspaper deal, according to the
Sunday Times and Sunday Telegraph.


Amid mounting negative reaction, the defence ministry said in a
statement: "It was clear that the stories they had to tell were
likely to have emerged via family and friends regardless of any
decision the (Royal) Navy took."


Many of the mariners and their families had already been
contacted directly by the media. Allowing them to speak would
allow officials to have "sight" of what they would say and allow
them access to "proper media support", they said.


But the decision appears to have caused a slump in public
sympathy for the mariners' plight.


BBC News Online received more than 3,500 postings on its feedback
section, many of them urging a rethink and saying the decision
had damaged the reputation of the British military.


The main opposition Conservative Party expressed similar concerns
about the "undignified" deal while the smaller Liberal Democrats
said they were concerned about inadvertent leaks of sensitive
information.


Mike Aston, whose son Russell was one of six British military
policeman killed by a mob in Iraq in June 2003, said he was
"absolutely amazed" at the decision.


"Let's put it this way, regarding my son's death -- and it was a
very high profile case -- I can put my hand on my heart and say
that I've never sought or made a penny out of it in any way,
shape or form," he said.


"I think to actually sell (my) story would besmirch my son's
memory."


Rose Gentle, whose son Gordon was killed in the southern city of
Basra in June 2003, told the Sunday Times: "This is wrong and I
don't think it should be allowed...


"None of the parents who have lost their loved ones in Iraq have
sold their stories."


Retired British colonel Bob Stewart, who commanded United Nations
troops in Bosnia, said he understood the ministry's thinking but
it made him "a bit sick".


Families of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan had not
struck similar deals, he added.


Detailing the group's capture risked glorifying a military
disaster and could also play into the hands of Iran, which has
dismissed claims they mistreated the Britons as "propaganda", he
told BBC News 24 television.


Iran detained the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal
Marines in the northern Gulf on March 23 for allegedly breaching
its territorial waters. Britain has denied the charge.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced their release on
Wednesday. They returned to Britain on Thursday and on Friday
said they were subjected to psychological pressure and were
blindfolded, shackled and kept isolated.


Turney was not at Friday's news conference and has not yet spoken
publicly.


Britain's best-known public relations specialist and celebrity
agent Max Clifford said fathers of two of the 15 had had
contacted him on the advice of the defence ministry.


He said he told them to donate any money to families of the 140
British service personnel who had lost their lives in Iraq to
prevent a backlash.


Allowing them to speak would be a "propaganda" coup for the
government, he added.

