

Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday decried the "suffering in the world"
in his traditional "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) on
Easter Sunday.


"How many wounds, how much suffering there is in the world!
Natural calamities and human tragedies that cause innumerable
victims and enormous material destruction are not lacking," he
said in the message beamed around the world.


"I am thinking of the scourge of hunger, of incurable diseases,
of terrorism and kidnapping of people, of the thousand faces of
violence which some people attempt to justify in the name of
religion, of contempt for life, of the violation of human rights
and the exploitation of persons," the 79-year-old pontiff said.


"My thoughts go to recent events in Madagascar, in the Solomon
Islands, in Latin America and in other regions of the world,"
Benedict said from the loggia of St Peter's Basilica to a crowd
of tens of thousands filling the square as well as the main
street leading up to it.


"I look with apprehension at the conditions prevailing in several
regions of Africa," in several parts of the world's poorest
continent, notably Zimbabwe, Darfur and Somalia.


"Zimbabwe is in the grip of a grievous crisis, and for this
reason the bishops of that country in a recent document indicated
prayer and a shared commitment for the common good as the only
way forward," he said.


"In the Middle East, besides some signs of hope in the dialogue
between Israel and the Palestinian authority, nothing positive
comes from Iraq, torn apart by continual slaughter as the civil
population flees," the pope said    in the message broadcast live
by 67 television stations.


"In Lebanon, the paralysis of the country's political
institutions threatens the role that the country is called to
play in the Middle East and puts its future seriously in
jeopardy.


"Finally, I cannot forget the difficulties faced daily by the
Christian communities and the exodus of Christians from that
blessed Land which is the cradle of our faith," the 79-year-old
pontiff said.

