

A powerful blast killed at least one person in the northeastern
city of Guwahati on Sunday just as Indian Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh arrived here to attend a function, police said.


Twelve others were injured in the explosion that occurred at a
crowded railway crossing in Guwahati, the largest city in the
insurgency-racked Assam state, a police spokesman said.


He said the blast occurred 10 kilometres (six miles) away from a
site where Singh was scheduled to lay the foundation of a new
bridge on Monday morning.


Senior police officer Rajan Singh blamed the attack on the
region's outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA)
guerrilla group, which has been campaigning for decades for
greater autonomy in Assam state.


Singh said a powerful bomb concealed in a parked motorcycle went
off at the rail crossing in Guwahati city.


"Preliminary reports suggest that one person has died in the
blast and a dozen more are injured," officer Singh said.


Three of the victims were taken to hospital in a critical
condition, he said.


State officials said the bomb attack appeared to be the ULFA's
expression of protest at the prime minister's visit to oil and
tea-rich Assam.


"Probably the ULFA wanted to demonstrate its strength by carrying
out the blast during the prime minister's visit," an intelligence
official said on conditions of anonymity.


The ULFA has been fighting for an independent Assamese homeland
since 1979.


The rebels last week rejected the Assam government's offer for
unconditional talks and warned of stepped up violence, including
using suicide bombers to attack selected targets.


Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi had offered unconditional peace
talks with the ULFA, aimed at ending close to three decades of
insurgency in the region.


The ULFA has said direct talks could be possible only if New
Delhi agrees to discuss their core demand of sovereignty or
independence, and release five of their jailed leaders.


During January, suspected ULFA rebels killed 73 people, 61 of
them Hindi- speaking migrant workers in Assam.


At least 10,000 people have died in fighting between government
forces and separatists in Assam in the past two decades.

