

Republican Senator John McCain on Sunday defended his sunny
optimism while on a Baghdad market tour earlier this month and
blamed the media for casting a shadow on "evidence of progress."


In an editorial published by the Washington Post, McCain insisted
that his judgment was not clouded, and that he simply aimed to
present a full picture of the situation because the positives are
being ignored by the news media.


"I went to Iraq to gain a firsthand view of the progress in this
difficult war, not to celebrate any victories. No one has been
more critical of sunny progress reports that defied realities in
Iraq," he wrote.


"We held a news conference to discuss what we saw: positive
signs, underreported in the United States, that are reason for
cautious optimism."


Among the signs he listed were higher police recruitment,
cooperation from Sunni sheikhs in the fight against Al-Qaeda, the
installation of 50 joint US-Iraqi stations in Baghdad, and Iraqi
army and police forces "increasingly fighting on their own."


McCain, a presidential hopeful, drew heaps of criticism for
holding a news conference on April 1 in Baghdad after a heavily
guarded stroll through an oft- bombed market where he insisted
that "things are better."


The 70-year-old, who sported a bullet-proof vest and was under
significant military ground and air guard, has since been
assailed in the US media for being "brainwashed," "politically
clumsy," and staging "a photo-op from hell."


Critics have said he demonstrated that he was out of touch with
reality for also claiming that "there are neighborhoods in
Baghdad where you and I could walk today."


He later said he "misspoke," but has continued to champion signs
of progress since the beginning of a US troop surge that has sent
80,000 troops to the street of the Iraqi capital in a massive
security clampdown.


Still, hundreds of people are killed in Iraq each week, as car
and suicide bombers continue to defy the new Iraqi-US security
crackdown and often target markets and crowded gathering places
to increase the number of casualties.


McCain acknowledged in his editorial that "markets in Baghdad
have faced devastating terrorist attacks," and gave the example
of the Shorja market, which was bombed in February in an attack
that killed 137 people.


"Today the market still faces occasional sniper attacks, but it
is safer than it used to be. One innovation of the new strategy
is closing markets to vehicles, thereby precluding car bombs that
kill so many and garner so much media attention," McCain said.


"The new political-military strategy is beginning to show
results. But most Americans are not aware because much of the
media are not reporting it or devote far more attention to car
bombs and mortar attacks that reveal little about the strategic
direction of the war," he wrote.


"I am not saying that bad news should not be reported or that
horrific terrorist attacks are not newsworthy. But news coverage
should also include evidence of progress."


McCain, who was held a prisoner of war in Hanoi during the
Vietnam war, has long been a supporter of the US-led war in Iraq
and has argued for higher troop numbers in the past.


The Arizona senator lost a bid for the 2000 Republican
presidential nomination to current US President George W. Bush.

