

Six NATO soldiers were killed on Sunday in a mine explosion in
southern Afghanistan, the deadliest single attack on NATO forces
in the country this year, the alliance said in a statement.


The soldiers, who were all Canadian, died after a roadside bomb
was detonated in Helmand province, where NATO troops are fighting
the Taliban, Canadian television reported Prime Minister Stephen
Harper as saying.


Earlier, NATO said in a statement: "Six ISAF (International
Security Assistance Force) soldiers died today in southern
Afghanistan as a result of injuries sustained when the vehicle
they were traveling in hit an explosive device."


A seventh NATO soldier, whose nationality is not known, was
killed a separate blast on Sunday.


The latest casualties brought to 34 the number of foreign troops
to have died in Afghanistan since January. The figure includes
those from the separate US-led coalition, which has more than
10,000 troops in Afghanistan, as well as the 37,000 troops in
NATO's ISAF force.


The force did not say who might have set the bomb, but similar
attacks in the past have been blamed on Taliban militants who
have been waging an insurgency against the government and foreign
troops.


The insurgency, launched months after the ousting of the Taliban
by a US-led invasion in late 2001, intensified last year.


As part of their campaign, the Taliban have widely used roadside
bombs, which many say are a tactic copied from insurgents
fighting the US-led coalition force in Iraq.


The Taliban, whose government was toppled for not handing over
Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden to the US after the September 11
attacks in 2001, have also been using suicide bombers -- another
militant tactic widely used in Iraq.


A US-led soldier was slightly injured when a suicide bomber
exploded a bomb- filled van on Sunday near a military convoy in
the eastern province of Nangarhar near the Pakistani border.


Authorities blamed the bombing on the enemies of Afghanistan's
peace and stability, a phrase that officials use to refer to the
Taliban.

