

One Palestinian was killed on Wednesday when Israeli troops
entered the Gaza Strip and clashed with militants in the first
such incursion since a November ceasefire, security sources said.


Soldiers driving five tanks, bulldozers and jeeps, penetrated 500
metres (550 yards) into farmland near the northern Gaza village
of Beit Hanun, sparking sporadic gunfights, according to
Palestinian security sources.


The radical Islamic Jihad group confirmed that soldiers shot and
killed one of their militants, Ramez Awad al-Zaanin, as he was
trying to plant an explosive in the path of oncoming tanks. A
second militant was wounded.


Israel said it had carried out a limited incursion only after it
observed three militants attempting to plant an explosive charge
and said it immediately withdrew its soldiers afterwards.


"A unit operating on the Israeli side saw three men placing an
explosive charge close to the fence," a spokesman told AFP.


"The soldiers penetrated inside the area and exchanged fire with
the militants, hitting two of them," he added.


The first ground incursion into Gaza since a November 26
ceasefire followed a call by Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz
for the army to take "decisive action" against militants to halt
the firing of homemade rockets into the Jewish state.


On March 28, Israel launched a first strike against militants
firing rockets from the northern Gaza Strip since the November
ceasefire. No soldiers entered Gaza during that strike.


Israel says militants have fired 155 such rockets at Israel since
the ceasefire was agreed. In December militant rocket fire
wounded two teenagers in the Israeli community of Sderot.


A handful of senior Israeli intelligence and military officials
have warned in recent weeks that Gaza's militants are rearming
themselves with weapons smuggled from Egypt and called for
military action.


Since the start of the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising,
in September 2000, 5,655 people have now died, most of them
Palestinians, according to an AFP count.

