

Tiger Woods will look to dethrone old rival Phil Mickelson as
Masters champion at Augusta National starting Thursday and win
his 13th Grand Slam title into the bargain.


The odds are heavily in favour of the 31-year-old American, who
burst into international prominence here a decade ago when he won
the first of his 12 majors with a record 12-stroke win that still
stands.


Four years later, in 2001, he wrote another indelible chapter
into the history of golf when he won the Masters for a second
time completing what has becone known as the "Tiger Slam" after
having won the US Open, British Open and US PGA titles the
preceding year.


The following year he won again, becoming just the third player
in Masters history to claim consecutive titles and he added a
fourth green jacket in 2005 when his wonder chip-in at the 16th
derailed Chris DiMarco's brave challenge.


One player, though, realistically contests his domination in the
fabled tournament and that is a player he has had his differences
with in the past - fellow American Mickelson.


The 36-year-old left-hander finally cast aside the label of "best
player never to have won a major" when he took the 2004 Masters
and last year he won for a second time with a memorable display
of confidence and control down the home stretch on Sunday.


But the circumstances are drastically different from last year.


Then Mickelson was playing the best golf of his career having
also won the USPGA at the end of the 2005 season and there was
legitimate talk of him deposing Woods as the world's top golfer.


Woods was under the cloud of the cancer illness that killed his
father Earl just a month later.


Twelve months on, Mickelson is still answering questions about
his form and mindset following a final-hole collapse at last
year's US Open and his desparately poor form at the Ryder Cup.


Woods and wife Elin are expecting their first child in July and
he is halfway to a second "Tiger Slam" having won the British
Open and USPGA last year.


But he insists that is not what is on his mind.


"I'm just thinking about trying to place my ball around this golf
course. That's about it," he said.


"I learned quite a bit from last year. I made a few mistakes out
there that cost me the tournament and plus Phil played
brilliantly on Sunday and was really tough to catch.


"But I had some opportunities to make putts on the back nine and
I didn't get it done.


"Heading into this year, I have a totally different mindset. I
lost a father and then I'm going to become a father, so it's two
different places in my life."


Mickelson is going again with the two drivers and no sand wedge
approach that worked for him last year though this time he is
trying out one of the new square-headed drivers that have added
extra length off the tee.


"When I need distance, I use the square one and when I try to hit
a litle low shot or work around the trees on 10 or 13, I'll use
the regular-shaped driver," was his explanation.


Mickelson insists his implosion at Winged Foot is a thing of the
past and is no longer on his mind. What he wants is to recreate
the aura that propelled him to success last year.


"I can't think of a time I've felt mote comfortable or more
relaxed going into the final round," he said.


This year's field of 97 includes the usual array of no-hopers,
ranging from gnarled veteran former winners like Gary Player,
Fuzzy Zoeller, Tom Watson, Larry Mize and Craig Stadler alongside
youngsters Richie Ramsay of Scotland and Julien Guerrier of
France, respective winners last year of the US and British
Amateur titles.


Still, there is plenty of threat to the Woods-Mickelson dynasty
that between them have won five of the last six Masters.


Ernie Els, twice a runner-up here, says he is finally back to his
best after nearly two years of rehabilitation from knee
reconstruction surgery, and world No.2 Jim Furyk is encouraged by
the forecast for cool, dry weather for the four days of the
tournament, conditions he says should help the shorter hitters.


Among the firsts this year are the fact that the Americans in the
field are out- numbered by non-Americans, who include Jeev Milka
Singh, the first Indian to play in the Masters.


There will be a first also for the legendary four-time former
winner Arnold Palmer, who on Thursday will become the first
honorary starter at Augusta National since the late Sam Snead in
2002.

